robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


11l1l Il1 111111111 
ISBN1-58846-5 13-6 
WW 5035 $19.95 U.S. 
IIII1111111111111111 
9 9 5  
111l111111~~111111111 
I 
- 
9 781 588 4651 39 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


It started with having to close the store late. 
Everyone found their ways to sneak out -“My 
babysitter flaked on me,” 
“I’m needed at home,” “I’m late for a concert,” “Thursday’s always slow, you 
don’t mind closing up, do you?” That was the way it always was - 
Sherry 
doesn’t have a family or boyfriend to hurry home to, and Sherry’s got no life 
outside of work, so she can cover for those of us who do. And Sherry always 
said yes, because it was better than going home to Mother, who would 
complain about being alone all day, but who refused to get a pet (smelly, 
disease-carrying), or visit the community center (bunch of old people there), 
or get a job (her health was “poor”). So she stayed at work until her feet were 
throbbing, waiting desperately for the last stragglers to get out so she could 
finish the work that everyone else left behind. 
Sherry checked her watch - 
the last bus would be here in five minutes. 
The street was deserted, so she decided to skip walking up to the crosswalk and 
just cross in front of the store. If she missed the bus, that would mean a very 
long and scary walk home, and Mother complaining about her inconsiderate 
nature in not calling her if she was going to be late. She hiked her tote bag up 
on her shoulder and stepped out into the street.. .. 
The next thing she knew, there was silence. Nothing around her. No 
cars, no buses, no street noise. Just her and the wind. And a bird, sitting on 
the broken thing lying in the gutter. 
Sherry’s mind raced with confusion. She was dead? But it felt like- 
what? You couldn’t say that your heart was racing or anything like that, not 
when your physical body is roadkill. All she knew was that part of her was 
lying in the road, and somehow she was standing over her body, looking at the 
grotesque angle of her neck and one arm, at her legs twisted the wrong way. 
And there was a bird sitting on her body. 
The bird looked up at her, and then it spoke to her, “Hello. I’m glad I 
caught you before you left. I was hoping to ask you something.” 
She couldn’t think of a thing to say to that. The bird cocked its head and 
continued, “Don’t you want to know what it is?” 
Sherry still couldn’t find her voice. All she could do was nod dumbly. 
The bird went on, “If someone asked you what you did with your life, 
what would you say?” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


“I ... I went to school, I took care of my mother, I worked-,” 
she 
managed to choke. 
“Is that all? Is that how you want to leave your life - 
barely lived, 
without pleasure or even a duty you wanted to attend to?” The bird-spirit 
paused to let her consider this, then it said, “What if you could have another 
chance, another life? What if you could go back?” 
“HOW can you promise that?” she whispered, watching helplessly as her 
broken body was searched by two street thugs looking to steal anything worth 
having. They didn’t seem to notice the bird, nor did it notice them. 
“Let me stay with you, and I’ll show you how,” the bird said. 
Sherry considered its words, especially “a duty you wanted to attend to.” 
Was there such a thing? She suddenly wanted to find out more. She 
summoned every ounce of bravery and said, “All right. What do I do?” 
The bird fluttered up and wrapped its wings around Sherry’s face, as if 
embracing her head, and she felt the presence of someone else in my mind. 
She flinched and tried to shake it free, but the bird-spirit silenced her: This 
is the beginning of it. You have a journey to make now, one that will forge your body 
for the work ahead. 
0.. 
When Sherry emerged on the other side, she was standing in a barren, 
ashy landscape under a leaden sky. A river quietly meandered nearby, and a 
dark shrouded figure waited in a reed boat. It looked like all the pictures she’d 
ever seen of Charon on the River Styx. The new spirit her whispered that this 
was an Aken- 
one of the boatmen who guideed the dead in Duat, the 
Underworld - 
and that she should go with him, that he understood where 
she must go next. Sherry nervously approached the Aken and cleared her 
throat. 
He turned to her and removed his hood. She couldn’t guess how old he 
might be -he had iron-gray hair cut in Roman fashion, and his skin looked 
leathery as if he’d been out in the desert sun for years. His eyes were deep and 
stern, but also kind. He helped her into the boat, then started poling along 
the water. In the distance, she heard screeches, wails and strange noises that 
she couldn’t identify. The strangeness of everything would overwhelm her, 
but for the voice of the ba. This is Duat - 
yonder is the sound of the Dja-akh, 
the great spirit-storm - 
you must speak with the Judges of Ma’at before you can 
re turn. 
The Aken spoke little during their travels, but he answered Sherry’s 
questions when she had them. He told her about the ghost-storm, about the 
ruinedcities theypassed. After a while, they pulled up to asandy shore. Sherry 
started to get up, then nearly choked when she saw what was approaching - 
a man in a linen skirt and jeweled collar with the head of a black jackal. The 
spirit whispered quickly: Anubis, the guide of the dead. He’ll take us where we 
need to go. 
Anubis was a silent guide across the cool sands toward the shadowy 
monoliths in the distance, but Sherry wasn’t sure she wanted to know what his 
voice might sound like. As they approached the first great shadow, in the half- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


light it revealed itself to be a temple complex of ruins - 
stone pillars, mastabas 
and shrines that looked familiar. The next destination is a long corridor into the 
earth, built with huge stone blocks. Down the hall was darkness, a pit of inky 
unknown waiting for her. Without waiting to see if she would follow, Anubis 
started forward, and she stumbled after him, right into the darkness. 
Suddenly, her guide was gone, and she was alone in the dark. The only 
light came from a guttering torch nearby. Which way should she go? What 
was she supposed to do? When faced with a situation she couldn’t fathom, her 
instinct was always to stand still and wait for something to happen. But the 
spirit burning in her refused to let her be led by the hand: Don’t you want to 
know what happens next? Don’t you want to know more? 
Sherry took the torch from the wall and started down the corridor, the 
darkness hemming her in on all sides, except for the light that encircled her. 
Whenever the fear started to overwhelm her, the spirit in her cajoled and 
berated her onward. Movement caught the comer of her eye. She turned and 
the torchlight illuminated brilliant colors - 
carnelian red, malachite green, 
lapis blue, gold leaf. There were figures of queens, pharaohs and gods made of 
those colors. She recognized the figures of Isis and Osiris, and a great feeling 
of reverence washed over her. 
She continued onward, but still watching the beautiful hieroglyphics 
unfold their story on the wall, telling the tale of Osiris and his treacherous 
brother Set, of Isis hunting down her husband’s tom body to rebuild him, of 
the warriors called the Shemsu-heru who were created to serve Horus and his 
father. The hieroglyphics grew more familiar - 
she realized she could even 
read some of it, or perhaps the spirit was translating for her. The story was 
about a temple dancer, called Tia bint-Sef. She was the daughter of a pharaoh 
and a concubine. She could never be a princess because of her birth, so she 
was consecrated to the gods. She learned the sacred dances of the temples and 
the not-so-sacred dances of the court, and in all her ways, she was considered 
beautiful. She was loved by many because she listened to those who came to 
her with grief and worries, and by her listening and comfort, she took their 
burdens onto herself. Even her father loved her for her listening ways and for 
her dancing soul when his spirit was tired. When Tia died, her father had her 
mummified and placed in his own tomb with goods and companions to 
comfort her until he came. 
Sherry paused for a moment to study the story -her 
own, she realized 
- 
and heard strange music from further down the corridor. It sounded 
wonderful - 
in a primitive sort of way - 
and she hurried ahead to see what 
she would find. There was a tableau in one of the chambers, as if a show was 
being set. Sherry stared, then blushed and started to turn away, but the spirit 
became forceful and made her turn back. This is your past, your First Life! This 
is where you came from. This is who we are. Her guide would not let her shrink 
until she looked fully upon this now-shared past.. 
The scene was of cool marble floors and alabaster walls, the drifting scent 
of perfumes, and fine linen hangings. There was a party of men and women, 
most wearing close to nothing because their linen clothes were nearly 
transparent. Many wore thick black wigs and golden jewelry. Sherry let her 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


a jeweled collar and a slave bangle on her left ankle, and her hair was in a top- 
knot from which dangled a red ball on a silver ribbon. She danced to music 
that sounded vaguely familiar. It was plucked strings, drums, sistrums and 
flutes. No one from the group could take their eyes from her. Her body was 
strong and beautiful. Sherry wondered, Was I really like this? The only answer 
could be yes. The strange ache grew more powerful, and tears came to her eyes. 
Her guide asked what was wrong and suddenly, without thinking what it 
might say, she blurted, “I want to be that! I want to be strong and beautiful 
and not afraid of anything!” 
Perhups you will be, when we finish our journey. 
Sherry finally emerged from the darkness of the tunnel to find Anubis 
waiting for her. He said nothing, but led her toward another chamber. The 
spirit told her this was where they would meet theJudges of Ma’at, where they 
would decide if the match of Tia and Sherry was right and whether she could 
return. The torch was taken from her, and she stepped into a vast hall. She 
was aware of many eyes on her. She felt compelled to look up, and she was 
struck by their facial expressions - 
stern and cold, but fair. Most looked 
human. The rest were like nothing she had ever seen - 
a synthesis of animal 
and man and history that the scribes of ancient Egypt could have never 
imagined. 
Sherry didn’t remember everything they said, but she could not forget 
that they pointed out every sin she had ever committed until she wanted to 
crawl into the sand and die. Worst of all, they said, was that she lived in 
constant fear of rules and “authorities” who were neither gods nor kings, but 
who held the same sort of power over her. She had no defense. She knew she 
had did wrong in their eyes. But then a kinder judge spoke. The match 
between the spirit and her was agood one. It had the potential to be more than 
just a return to life, but a return to something better. That judge thought that 
she could be more if she just understood what she never had. 
The final judgment was made: “Tia bint-Sef, you are thereby judged fit 
toreturn to the living world to seek that which youshrankfrom in yourwasted 
time. Relearn your passions, seek out new vistas of thought, and in doing so, 
serve Ma’at by bringing your passion to a world hungry for just that.” 
Sherry couldn’t remember how she returned to the living world - 
something about Anubis taking her out of the judges’ presence and pointing 
toward a bright spot on the horizon, and- 
Suddnely, she awoke, swaddled in scented bandages that covered her 
face. She tried to tear at them with hands as bundled as mittens, and there was 
a flurry of voices. Someone restrained her while a man’s voice soothed her, 
“Easy now. We’ll have these off you in a moment.” 
And with a click of scissors, the bandages fell away from her body, and 
suddenly Sherry was staring into the faces of a group of people who were 
wearing linen robes like the priests and nobles of her first memories. An old 
man with a shaved head smiled at her and made a gesture of greeting. 
“Welcome back, daughter of Isis.” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Credits 
Written by: Bruce Baugh, Kieran Dewhurst, Conrad Hubbard and Alan I. 
Kravit 
Developed by: Cynthia Summers 
Edited by: Allison Sturms 
Previously published material has appeared in: Laws of the Night, Laws 
of Ascension 
Art direction by: Aaron Voss 
Art by: Laura Robles 
Makeup by: Dawn Emanuele and Joe Talacko 
Layout and typesetting by: Aaron Voss 
Mind’s Eye Theatre design: Mark ReinOHagen, Ian Lemke and Mike 
Tinney 
World of Darkness created by: Mark ReinOHagen 
0 2002 White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction 
without the written permission of the 
publisher is expressly forbidden, except 
forthepurposesofreviews, and forblank 
character sheets, which may be 
reproduced for personal use only. White 
Wolf, Vampire, Vampire 
the 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, 
Mage the Ascension, Hunter the 
Reckoning, World of Darkness and 
Aberrant are registered trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights 
reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf 
the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Mummy the Resurrection, 
Trinity, Laws of the Hunt, Laws of the Night, Laws of the Wild, Laws of Ascension, Laws of 
Acension Companion, Changing Breeds Book One, Changing Breeds Book Two, Changing 
Breeds BookThree, Lost Paths, Bookofthe Wyrm, Mind’s EyeTheatre, Lawsofthe Resurrection 
andThe Camarilla Guide are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All 
characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge 
to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the Supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and 
supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book 
contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN USA 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


PRELUDE: DAUGHTER OF THE NILE 
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION AND SETTING 
CHAPTERWO: THE AMENTI 
CHAPTER THREE: CHARACTER CREATION 
CHAPTERFOUR: HEKAU 
CHAPTER FIVE: RULES, SYSTEMS AND DRAMA 
CHAPTER S I X  STORYTELLING 
CHAPTER SEVEN: ALLIES AND ANTAGONISTS 
1 
10 
46 
62 
116 
180 
218 
240 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ONCE UPON A TI E... 
Once upon a time, long before television, computers or even books, 
people sat around the fire and told stories for entertainment. Whether it was 
a ballad of a hero’s latest exploits or a cautionary tale about dealing with the 
hidden creatures of the world, storytellers were a valued part of the community 
as teachers and entertainers. And tale-telling was hardly a passive art - 
the 
storyteller relied on his audience for reactions to his tale as he spoke. How else 
would he know if they were enjoying the story, or if they were bored? 
Time marches on, and technological developments began to change, 
and interfere with, the storyteller’s art. Books (and the spread of literacy) 
meant that someone could simply read a story whenever he liked, instead of 
hunting down a storyteller to tell it. Radio and TV remade the storyteller into 
an impassive creature that did not encourage audience participation or 
feedback. Stories were still told, and in great quantity, but they were largely 
sterile, nonliving things. 
Then we come to the 1970s, and the era of roleplaying. A group of players 
sits around a table, listening to their leader describe scenes of dank dungeons 
and dark cities, and they choose which path to take next. At one of these 
sessions, someone gets the idea to start standing up, moving and thinking as 
his character might. Over time, more players do the same, creating what will 
become known as live-action roleplaying (or LARP). In fact, this “new” 
entertainment was a return to the oldest - 
the leader was the storyteller, 
taking his listeners on a new journey. And the listeners responded in kind by 
taking on the roles of the characters in the story and by telling this new tale 
to the storyteller, the other player-listeners and themselves. 
WHAT IS MIND’S EYE THEATRE? 
This game is probably unlike anything you have played before. In many 
ways, it’s not really a game, because it doesn’t have the usual trappings of 
games - 
such as cards, dice or a playing board. It’s also far more concerned 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


with the stories told along the way than with “winning.” It’s far more like 
childhood make-believe than what most people typically think of when they 
imagine “games.” This book contains all the information you’ll need to start 
playing and telling your own stories. You create the action, you choose the 
path to follow, and you decide what risks to accept. We call this style of game 
Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Playing Mind’s Eye Theatre is like being in a movie. You and your 
friends are the characters, but there is no script. There may be a framework 
or setting that determines the parameters of the world around you, but you 
and the other players create the story as you play. The “director” of this movie 
is the Storyteller, assisted by Narrators. The Storyteller creates the stage and 
the minor characters that the players interact with to tell this story. 
Most scenes in Mind’s Eye Theatre are played out in real time- an hour 
in make-believe world is 60 minutes long, and it takes up 60 minutes in the 
real world. Players always remain in character during the game unless there 
is a rules dispute. 
CHARACTERS 
When you play Mind’s Eye Theatre, you take on another persona (here 
a human who has joined with an ancient Egyptian soul and received the gift 
of immortality). Your character can be almost anything - 
from any walk of 
life, age, creed, race or sex. The only limit is your imagination. When you 
create this character, you decide what she says or does. You decide where she 
goes and what choices she makes. During the game, you speak as your 
character, unless you’re resolving a rules dispute or talking to the Storyteller. 
Because most of what a Mind’s Eye Theatre player perceives around him 
depends on the other players, all players should be vivid and expressive. 
While the characters may direct the plot through their actions, the plot 
reacts in ways that direct the characters. For example, a character decides he 
wants to buy a coffeehouse with space for people to perform, and he invites 
a well-known local group to perform for an evening. Here the characters are 
directing the plot through their actions. However, the plot reacts to this 
direction. The Storyteller tells the characters that the performance has 
aroused some suspicious attention. It seems that one of the performers 
reminds a character of a singer who was supposed to have died two years ago. 
Thus is a story built in Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Creating a character for Laws of the Resurrection is easy, and it takes 
just a few minutes. Only a few steps are necessary to define the basic 
capabilities of a character, and once they’re done, you can start playing. 
There’s another phase to creating a character, though. A character is, by and 
large, like a person, and people aren’t just flat cardboard cutouts with a few 
numbers to represent what they can do. People have pasts, likes and dislikes, 
goals and dreams - 
all the intangible things that make a person into what 
other people see when he walks into a room or talks to them. It’s not much 
different from all the care that an actor or author takes when creating a 
character. So as you’re creating your character, think a little about where she 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


comes from, what she wants out of her existence, wha 
she loves and hates. Does your character love thunderstorms and watch them 
from the window, or have they frightened him ever since he was a child? Does 
your character want revenge on the person who killed a loved one, and will 
he bargain with the Devil himself to get it? While certain personality quirks 
and details emerge as you play, it’s a good idea to have the basics in place for 
the first time you walk into a room and meet the other characters. 
Characters are the heart and soul of the story. Without them, all the 
efforts of the Storyteller would be for nothing, and there would be no stories 
to tell. 
THE STORYTELLER 
The Storyteller is the one who creates the world that the players move 
through. She creates a skeletal framework of setting and plot, then turns the 
characters loose to put flesh on its bones. More than that, she acts as an 
impartial judge when the rules are questioned, describes scenes that can’t be 
staged and even plays the parts of antagonists or other people with whom the 
characters interact. The Storyteller is usually assisted by Narrators, who play 
their own characters but are ready to answer rules questions when necessary. 
Storytelling is a demanding (and occasionally exhausting) task. He must 
oversee the events to be certain that people have a good time, that the rules 
are being followed, and that the story is running smoothly. Sometimes she 
must create plot elements on the spur of the moment or adjudicate between 
several quarreling players. In spite of all of this responsibility, it is immensely 
satisfying watching the players create something remarkable with the plot 
elements given to them. It makes the headaches worthwhile. 
ELEGANTLY SIMPLE 
This game was designed to be easy to play, and easier to start. As said, 
character creation takes only a few minutes. The basic rules are simple, and 
they cover most of the encounters that a new player will enter. Even very new 
players who have never played Mind’s Eye Theatre or LARP before will find 
that it takes little effort to pick up. 
This game is based on the tabletop book Mummy: The Resurrection. It 
is not necessary to own Mummy to play this game, but you may find some 
helpful source material within. 
HOW TO USE THIS BOOK 
This book gives you all the basic rules that you’ll need to start playing or 
Chapter One: Introduction-The 
introduction toMind’s Eye Theatre, 
Chapter Two: The Amenti -Describes the various mummies basedon 
Storytelling mortals in the World of Darkness. 
the World of Darkness and the world that the Reborn inhabit. 
the piece of soul that joins with their own. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.. ‘. 
, _-. 4 
Chapter Three: Character Creation - All the things you need to 
Chapter Four: Hekau- 
These are the mystical powers of ancient Egypt 
Chapter Five: Rules, Systems and Drama -All the necessary rules and 
Chapter Six: Storytelling - 
Whether you’re a veteran Storyteller or 
Chapter Seven: Allies and Antagonists - 
Mummies aren’t the only 
create a character and start playing. 
that the Reborn wield against their enemies. 
details to run the game. 
have picked it up for the first time, this chapter will show you the ropes. 
strange things in the nighted world. 
THE RULES THOU SHALT NOT BREAK 
In the end, these are the only rules of the game that must always be 
obeyed. These keep everyone - 
other players, law enforcement, curious 
onlookers and you -safe 
and happy with the game. They’re not intended to 
limit fun, only to ensure that everyone plays safely and has a good time. 
NO TOUCHING 
That means none. Even when everyone’s being careful, accidents can 
happen. 
NO STUNTS 
No climbing, running, jumping or other dangerous stunts during a game. 
Let the rules cover actions like jumping from rooftops and the like. If you can 
imagine you’re the reincarnation of an Egyptian queen, you can surely 
imagine you’re swinging from a chandelier. 
NO WEAPONS 
That means none whatsoever, not even as props. Even obviously fake or 
silly toy weapons can look like the real thing in dim lighting and might give 
the wrong impression about the game. Use item cards instead. 
NO DRINKING OR DRUGS 
Duh. Drugs and alcohol do not create peak performance. A player who’s 
drunk or stoned is a danger to others and the game. There’s nothing wrong 
with playing a character who is drunk or stoned, but bringing the real thing 
to a game is a poor choice. At best, it’s unfitting; at worst, it’s illegal and a 
safety issue. Just say no. 
BE MINDFUL OF OTHERS 
This one has become very important in the past couple of years. Always 
remember, especially if you play in a public place, that not everyone around 
you is involved in the game. Make sure that your actions or appearance do not 
frighten or disturb others - 
this includes conversations. In this age of 
domestic terrorism, discussing the gory details of mummification, torture and 
the like in a public place, where nonplayers might overhear and misinterpret 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


what’s happening makes for a very bad combination. If a curious bystander 
from outside the game asks what’s going on, drop out of character and explain 
politely. 
THE RULES ARE FLEXIBLE 
We at White Wolf call this “the golden rule.” If there’s some ruling 
herein (other than these listed here) that doesn’t work for your group, then 
by all means change it if it will mean a smoother game. Just be consistent and 
fair - 
rulings that change weekly, or that result in no-win situations, upset 
the fun. 
IT’S ONLY A GAME 
If a rival wins, if a plot falls apart, if a character dies - 
it’s only a game. 
At the end of the day, it’s still a game that is played to have fun. Don’t spoil 
it for others by taking it too seriously. Leave the game behind when it ends. 
Playing Mind’s Eye Theatre is entertainment, and getting together with 
other players afterward to discuss the night’s events is great, but demanding 
a meeting with Anubis when the Storyteller is studying for exams signals the 
need for some downtime. 
AGAIN. HAVE FUN 
Not “Win.” Not “Go out and kill everything else.” Just have fun. The 
goal of Mind’s Eye Theatre is to tell stories about the hero’s journey and what 
happens along the way. 
THE WORLD OF DARKNESS 
On the surface, the World of Darkness doesn’t seem that different from 
our own. People are born, grow up, work and die every day. Plants and 
skyscrapers compete for space. The same newspapers are sold on the comer, 
and television is the same vast wasteland. But there is something else in the 
World of Darkness - 
an element fed from the violence and despair that 
permeates the world. This element is what the monsters feed on, and the 
monsters are all too real. 
The World of Darkness is not simply our own with a coating of black 
paint and some random monsters stirred in. It is a world that has become too 
beaten down by violence, coarseness, social ills and emotional pain to rouse 
itself. The gulf between the haves and the have-nots is great and widens daily. 
Hope and compassion are all too rare, but all the more precious for their 
scarcity. People look for some light in their lives, but even faith is a 
commodity. Those who manage to lift themselves often do so through violent 
means, doing whatever it takes to make a dent in the walls. And in the midst 
of all this, unknown to the masses, are monsters, spirits and creatures of myth, 
moving among humanity on their own shadowy business. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


IN THE SHADOW OF THE SPHINX 
When one hears the word “mummy,” images of shuffling, bandaged 
corpses from old movies comes to mind. In the world of Laws of the 
Resurrection, such beings exist, but they are the products of corruption or 
failure. The mummies of Resurrection are creatures of flesh and blood who 
are perhaps even more alive than some humans. They breathe the same air, 
eat the same foods and see the same sights, but it is all more sensational and 
magnificent as they have tasted death and been granted life once again. 
Mummies are immortal, but not in the sense of the divine immortality of the 
gods. A mummy can die, but he will journey the Underworld and later return 
to life, ready to resume his goals and duties. 
For thousands of years, the Nile has cast its irresistible spell over the 
youngest of the children of the world. From its mighty source (not far from the 
earliest scientific evidence of Man at Olduvai) to its outlet (near the deserts 
where the prophets of old walked), the valley of the eternal river has been 
Mankind’s greatest cradle. It gives life to our dreams. Now the children of the 
Nile return from darkness, finally ready to answer the Sphinx’s riddle. 
Osiris, one of the oldest and greatest of the Egyptian gods, has long 
reigned in the Lands of the Dead. A recent cataclysm in the Underworld has 
roused Osiris from his seeming slumber to take an active hand in the living 
world once again. The agents of this ancient power are themselves things of 
legend. They are deathless beings who defy the grasp of mortality. They are 
mummies. 
MUMMIES 
Ancient Egyptians perfected the art of preserving the bodies of the dead 
to maintain them for the afterlife. After death, the individual’s soul passed 
into Duat, the Egyptian Underworld. There, in the spirit city of Amenti, 
Osiris ruled over the dead. The god Anubis acted as psychopomp, guiding new 
arrivals before the judges of the afterlife so that they could determine the 
spirit’s reward for its life. 
Beyond this point, two schools of thought prevailed: Some believed that 
the corpse must remain inviolate so that it could sustain the soul in the 
afterlife, while others proclaimed that it would serve as a receptacle for the 
returning soul. As time passed and few people ever witnessed a corpse actively 
rise to life, the first view became dominant. The afterlife was a reflection of 
this world, only perfected, and a person’s place in that realm was determined 
by his proper adherence to Ma’at and the care with which he was interred. 
This viewpoint led to elaborate practices by the powerful. Pharaohs and 
wealthy men were entombed with jewels and riches. Some were even 
accompanied by their mummified wives, children or servants. Armies of 
wooden ushabti statues stood ready to answer the summons to labor in the 
afterlife on their master’s behalf. Some notables were even buried with intact 
ships and chariots, or entourages of mummified crocodiles, ibis or other 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


animals. A culture that believed you could take it with you flourished for 
thousands of years. 
Ironically, their beliefs were a pale reflection of the practices of the 
godlike beings who ruled them in the flesh during pre-dynastic times, but they 
were viewed as intangible forces and as legend in later times. When 
incorporated with the mummification ceremony, the Spell of Life used by the 
goddess Isis to resurrect her brother-husband Osiris created an eternal link 
between soul and corpse. Through this ritual, both forms of immortality came 
about in one being. A recipient of the spell could travel the realms of the 
Underworld and revel in the afterlife, and then return to life in the physical 
realm. Osiris and his followers were truly masters of life and death. 
Although those blessed by the cult that served Isis and Osiris still 
ventured into the Underworld upon their death, they could now return across 
the Shroud, the spirit veil that divided the living and spirit worlds, infusing 
their dead flesh with life again. Months (even years) might pass, but amummy 
who gave proper service in the Underworld could always eventually return to 
life, no matter how many times he was slain. 
The ancient mummies were made imperfectly, however, and could never 
completely escape the Shadowlands. They were missing an essential quality. 
Though their flesh was warm and their hearts beat, they could not pass on the 
gift of life. No children could come of their unions, and their spirits rested too 
lightly in their bodies. Mystics found their blood strangely lacking in life- 
force and their auras flawed. Due to the power of the ritual, the followers of 
Isis and Osiris performed the resurrection ceremony on only a small number 
of their members. Nonetheless, an undying breed is a force to be reckoned 
with, no matter how small their numbers. Osiris’ son Horus led most of the 
immortal mummies in an effort to cleanse the world of his father’s murderous 
brother Set and the venomous children of the dark god. Constantly beleaguered 
by the forces of the serpent, the faithful Shemsu-hem, or Followers of Horus, 
returned again and again to stand against Set’s evil. 
Even the eternal Shemsu-heru could not withstand the fury of the Dja- 
akh, the great spirit storm, and most perished in its devastating wake. 
Without the wisdom of the god of the Resurrection, all might have been lost. 
AMENT1 
In the aftermath of the spirit storm, the old Spell of Life has lost its 
potency. Whether Osiris simply stopped empowering its flawed form or some 
shift in the nature of spirits occurred due to the Dja-akh, the ritual no longer 
works. Osiris prepared cults throughout the Middle East who followed his 
teachings for the disastrous storm. Priests and priestesses learned the new 
Spell of Life, created during Osiris’ centuries beyond the Shroud and with the 
insight he gained into the bond between spirit and flesh. When the shattered 
souls of the city of Amenti began to arrive in the Lands of Faith, bearing the 
ravaged bodies of a new age, the priesthood of the god of the Resurrection 
awaited them. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


flows as strong as ;he Nile. Part of the spell’s strength comes from the new 
manner in which the Reborn (as mummies are also called) are created. Those 
resurrected in the wake of the Dja-akh are not simply souls tied to their 
corpses forever; the new mummies are products of a union of one of the storm- 
shattered souls from Amenti and of the flawed soul of a mortal who has died 
recently. Only the strongest shards of the souls of the ancient Egyptian dead 
were able to survive the Maelstrom’s savage winds. At Osiris’ behest, the 
remnants of these ancient spirits - 
including some old mummies whose souls 
were fractured by the howling soul tide of the Dja-akh- are spreading across 
the world seeking those whose weaknesses need their strength. They solicit 
a bond with individuals whom they can complete and complement. 
From the perspective of those in the Underworld, a person who is soon 
to meet with death evinces a mark or sign shortly before his end in the physical 
world. Spirits call these prophetic markings “Deathmarks.” When an Amenti 
spirit finds a compatible individual bearing the spiritual Deathmarks, the 
tattered entity waits nearby in the tumultuous ghost world. At the moment 
of death, the Amenti spirit fragment reveals itself to the newly deceased and 
offers to restore her to life. Should she agree, the shard of the Egyptian soul 
animates the individual’s dying form with just enough life energy to make a 
desperate pilgrimage, or hajj. The spirit’s goal is the Web of Faith, a network 
of holy sites scattered across northem Africa to the Middle East infused with 
the life-force of Osiris himself. It is a life-force that is vital to the resurrection 
ceremony. 
In the Lands of Faith, the priests and priestesses of Isis and Osiris await 
the joined spirits, and their sacred magic calls to the returning dead. Once the 
animated corpse is taken in at one of the secret sites, the beloved of Isis and 
Osiris perform the divine ritual of resurrection. 
While exact practices of the ritual of rebirth vary from cult to cult, the 
key elements remain the same. The body is soaked in natron (a salt mixture 
common to the Egyptian embalming process) and wrapped in protective 
bandages that have been inscribed with spells. As long as the ritual is 
performed within the Web of Faith, the deceased is flooded with a surge of 
life-force. The power of Osiris flows into the corpse, burning away the weak 
portions of its soul. The fragment of the ancient Egyptian soul replaces the 
flawed or impure portion of the modem soul, and it is called a tem-akh, or 
“completing spirit.” The new soul joins seamlessly with the old. The hybrid 
is then led by Anubis to face the Judges ofMa’at. Afterreceiving the judgment 
of this spiritual group, the newly empowered soul merges once more with its 
body and returns to Life. 
The resurrected individual - 
referred to formally as an Amenti, in honor 
of the lost city of the Dead from whence the soul fragments come-may 
undergo small changes as the body adjusts to its new, more powerful life force, 
although these alterations tend to be subtle ones. The most significant 
changes that the Spell of Life brings are usually clear. The recipient has come 
back to life, and the weakest portion of her soul has been replaced with the 
powerful tern-akh. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SOUL SHARDS 
To understand the nature of the Amenti, one must recognize the 
Egyptian concept that nine parts represent an individual's entire essence. A 
person's true name, or ren, is an inherent part of her being, and it may even 
be used to gain power over her. The heart, or ab, is the center of consciousness. 
The body, known as the khat, is necessary for the mummy's eventual 
resurrection. The remaining portions that comprise an individual are spiritual. 
Spiritual energy called Sekhem - 
similar to the notion of life-force - 
flows through the soul and body. The ren, ab and Sekhem reside within and 
define the body and soul alike. The khat stays in the physical realm. The 
remaining five aspects of an individual's essence exist within the person's 
khat, but pass from the corporal world upon the person's death. 
The ancient Egyptians recognized five soul aspects for each person. The 
ka kept careful watch over the body during death, protecting it from harm. 
The ba traveled into the spirit realms and returned only to help complete the 
Rebirth. The khaibit embodied the soul's darkness, aggression and hunger. 
The sahu was the eternal, incorruptible portion of the soul that dwelled in the 
Egyptian paradise known as A'aru. The khu surrounded the body and soul like 
a protective spiritual aura. 
Unfortunately for those Egyptian spirits in Duat, they were vulnerable to 
the Dja-akh that swept through the Underworld at the end of the millennium. 
The storm's spiritual devastation destroyed weaker vital essences. Only the 
strongest soul aspects survived. Few spirits of the Underworld city of Amenti 
survived in their entirety. Virtually every soul was shattered and left incomplete. 
These spirit remnants lost the remaining portions of their greater soul and 
drifted alone. Any chance the spirit pieces had to ever again join in life was 
lost to the spirit storm's rage. Without the other aspects of the soul, 
resurrection was forever denied to them. That is, until Osiris revealed his plan 
to them. 
THEHOLY LAND 
The lands of the Arabian peninsula and northern Africa have long been 
known as the cradle of civilization. The three great monotheistic religions 
were born in the Middle East, and their influence is certainly felt around the 
world. But the ancient homeland of Mankind teems with bloodshed, chaos 
and violence as though some invisible force was at work. In the Near-Eastem 
World of Darkness, those who seek the unseen adversaries of Mankind find 
them all too eager to snatch the unwary away. 
On the surface level, the Holy Land appears little different to the 
supernatural denizens of the World of Darkness than it does to the mortals 
who walk among them. The same ancient buildings crowd the same dusty 
streets and shelter everyone from the fury of the noonday sun. Countries' 
borders stand in eternal states of tension, where border guards watch constantly 
for the next terrorist carrying a bomb or gun in his clothes. Suspicion, fear and 
hatred tear at the fabric of the divine kingdoms on earth, and every day 
another soul is lost to bigotry and demonizing dogmatism. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The population swells faster than the scarce resources of life can support, 
and power-hungry men discover that the politics of water are a quick way to 
bring death to their enemies. On the other hand, the world clamors for 
unrestricted access to the rich reserves ofoil that lie beneath most of the Holy 
Land. The so-called “world powers” seek to subvert any chance of unity or 
peace so that they can exploit the division of the Near East in order to keep 
their own citizens happily paying less for a gallon of gas. The price for oil is 
blood, and the superpowers covertly provide weapons and training to any 
dictator or militant group that will spill it in their name. Resentment boils up 
like a storm, and innocents die as angry Middle Easterners strike against those 
who meddle in their affairs. In a vicious cycle, politicians and religious leaders 
on every side happily recount the crimes of their opposites and scream for 
vengeance. 
DJINN 
Like the rest of the World of Darkness, the Holy Land is home to avariety 
of supernatural beings, many as ageless as the trackless desert. Islamic texts 
speak of the djinn, beings created by God before the coming of Man. They 
were formed of smokeless fire, even as the first man was formed from clay, and 
can take many shapes or even none. This idea is very similar to that of sa, the 
fluid virtue and power of the Egyptian gods and demons, which lets them flow 
into any form or even coexist with other objects or creatures. In fact, ancient 
Egyptian tales tell of spiritual beings stepping from the fires of fallen stars with 
flesh of iron. But for all their power and majesty, the creator would seem to 
have some purpose for Mankind that puts djinn below humans. Djinn do not 
possess souls and are bound by convoluted codes known as the Laws of 
Solomon. 
A few inspired mystics of the World of Darkness believe that those who 
are slain and rise as vampires are actually reanimated by the bestial spirit of 
a lesser djinn known as a ghul, which flows into the body along with tainted 
blood and inspires an unholy hunger. The same scholars say that the 
shapeshifters and faeries of legend are forms of djinn. Tales of King Solomon 
trapping thousands of djinn within various magical vessels continue to inspire 
tales of wonder. Sorcerers sometimes seek to follow in the Biblical king’s 
footsteps by binding the djinn to perform great tasks. The dead pass into the 
Underworld and encounter angels and demons matching almost every legend 
awaiting them with wisdom and justice. It seems that we fascinate and 
empower the djinn every bit as much as they do us, our cycles tied together 
by the unseen hand of an unknowable purpose. 
NAMING THE GODS 
The choice between complete accuracy and use of familiar terms can 
sometimes be a difficult one. Since we are telling stories instead of writing 
scientific treatises, the decision is easier. The fact that the word “pharaoh” 
evokes more powerful imagery than “perdu,” and that Nebt-Hut sounds more 
like Star Wars to the modem ear than the goddess Nephthys deserves, settles 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


it. In most cases, the Greek name has come into dominant use. Here we 
present the ancient Egyptian equivalents, but purists will have to resign 
themselves to an acknowledgment of the original and be happy with the 
common name throughout the rest of this text. 
THE 7x70 LANDS 
Ancient Egyptians recognized the dichotomy of the world in symbolism 
that pervaded every comer of their religion and writing. Upper and Lower 
Egypt were combined into one kingdom by the legendary pharaoh Menes and 
called the Two Lands. The Two Lands also found expression in the Black 
Lands (or Khem, so called for the life-giving dark silt of the Nile River) and 
the Red Lands, or the inhospitable desert. The most important recognition 
of the Two Lands, however, was the understanding that Duat, or the 
Underworld, mirrored the material world. Everything in creation had a 
spiritual double. Although this spirit world and its doubles were invisible to 
mortal eyes, talented magicians could glimpse it, and everyone knew that 
they would enter it upon death. 
Duat is a confusing place to the mortal mind, containing such diverse 
realms as the paradise of A’aru, called the Field of Reeds; the Halls of Ma’at, 
where the dead were judged; and the pits of Apophis, where the Devourer 
lurks hoping to forever swallow the sun god Ra. The life-force of the world 
flows throughout Duat, and somewhere within its depths can be found the 
spiritual counterpart of every creature, object and idea. The fall of Egypt to 
conquerors has eclipsed many of the parts of Duat that would be most familiar 
to the Egyptians, but the rise of new faiths has only made Duat more intricate. 
The uppermost layer of Duat, called Neter-khertet remains easy to reach as 
it directly mirrors the physical world, which means it has also changed to 
reflect the history of the lands it reflects. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE SCROLL OF TIME 
In the beginning, the One who is the only one, Amon, was in the void. 
From the void, Amon created the world and caused the waters to part and the 
mound of earth to rise up. In the eldest days, the Two Lands were not as one, 
or even as two. The beasts ruled the earth, from the crocodile that was the 
demon of the river, to the scorpion that was the poison of the desert, to the 
lion that was the king of the grasslands. The children of the earth, Sibu-Gabu, 
had lived according to Amon’s law, beneath the gaze of their sky-mother Nuit 
for ages untold before the coming of Man. But the hidden will of Amon had 
yet to be revealed, and the Modeler formed humanity from the flesh of Sibu- 
Gabu and the spirit of Nuit, and set the new life on the Earth. Amon, who is 
hidden, watched with dismay as the serpent Apophis sought to devour the 
sun, and Man chose to live as a beast, grazing upon the green mantle of Sibu- 
Gabu and hunting the flesh of other creatures. Apophis devoured the hearts 
of men, sometimes before they even passed from the earth, and its hunger 
infected their souls such that they began to feed upon each other. 
Alarmed by Apophis, the heavens and earth acted as one. The sun 
peeked above the horizon at the same moment the Nile’s annual flooding, the 
Inundation, began, and the star Sothis (later called Sirius) also rose into the 
sky. This rare event occurs only once every 1,461 years, and marks the 
beginning of a period of time known as the Sothic cycle. This time, reputedly 
in the year 4240 BCE, marked the arrival to earth of four of the divine 
descendants of the creator. Osiris, his brother Set and their sisters, Isis and 
Nephthys, brought peace and law to Mankind. Osiris ended cannibalism and 
chaos and ruled over the people as the First Pharaoh. His rule constituted a 
benevolent dictatorship, with the words of the gods heard directly by the 
people and justice coming from divine wisdom and balance. The lands along 
the Nile grew prosperous, and the Nagada tribes spread along its length 
joyfully bearing news of the creator and his children on earth. 
Alas, paradise on earth could not last. The serpent Apophis wormed his 
way into Set’s heart, and the younger brother rose up against his elder sibling. 
He hungered for power and glory, desiring to be worshipped above all else. 
Jealousy seethed inside Set, and he turned many of the people against the First 
Pharaoh. The fight was fierce, for its leaders were gods, with Set’s warriors 
fighting for promises of wealth and Osiris’ defenders protecting the rightful 
pharaoh. Ultimately, Set was defeated, but the lands that would become 
Egypt had been irreparably divided. Osiris was merciful and banished his 
brother and enemies to the desert. 
During Set’s absence, a strange being called Typhon visited Osiris and 
proclaimed that his kingdom would be overcome by demons that drank 
blood. He offered the Lord of Life the power of death, with the promise that 
its might would let him save his domain. The pale one tried to beguile the First 
Pharaoh with tales of the princes of darkness that ruled the world outside of 
Egypt, and Osiris’ own divinations foretold his death. The god listened to his 
accursed guest, who was one of the terrible dead that Arabs would later call 
ghuk. Some believe he partook of Typhon’s offer, while others say he resisted. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Whatever the truth, he sent Typhon away. After their talks, the First Pharaoh 
grew saddened and withdrawn. The goddess Isis despaired that he had turned 
from her under the weight of his heavy heart. Osiris began to seek a way to 
repair the damage the demons would bring and balance the scales of Ma’at 
once again. 
As though he were fulfilling Osiris’ prophecies, Set returned. He had 
changed into a terrible unliving state through gorging on the dark blood of 
Apophis. Once again, Set sought to usurp the rule of Khem. The resulting 
struggle has become the stuff of legend. Set cleverly had his supporters present 
Osiris with a magnificent coffin in which he might rest in the event of his 
death. As soon as the pharaoh laid down in it, Set sprang from hiding and 
magically sealed the casket. His servants cast it into the Nile and Set seized 
the throne. Isis fled into the wilderness and spent years seeking her missing 
husband. 
Isis finally found his coffin hidden within a wooden pillar carved from a 
tamarisk tree that had grown around it. She released her husband from the 
sarcophagus and called upon Amon to help her. Her magic brought her 
husband back from his deathsleep. This was the first Resurrection. Though 
Osiris was like one of the dead, through their magic he proved to be fertile, 
and Isis bore their son Horus. The tragic family remained in hiding as the First 
Pharaoh continued to heal and sleep longer and longer, dreaming of the sun 
god in his night vessel and sailing through the Underworld. 
In the end, however, Set discovered the return and hunted Osiris down. 
The usurper viciously slew Osiris into pieces and scattered his fragments 
across Egypt. Osiris, however, was the chosen son of the heavens, and even 
in death continued the divine purpose. In the lands of Duat, Osiris met with 
Anubis, the guide of the dead, and learned many secrets from the jackal- 
headed messenger. From the spirit world, he spoke to Isis through their 
intimate link, and she learned the art of the second Resurrection. She then 
summoned a multitude of birds, which scoured the Two Lands for the god’s 
corpse and cast the Spell of Life upon his gathered body. The mummified flesh 
of the god swelled to life, and Osiris returned to the earth once again. 
Osiris’ time was short, and he knew it. No one knows exactly what he told 
his sister-wife Isis, his son Horus and his confidante Mestha before Set found 
him once again. He spoke to them in secret until his murderous brother’s 
inevitable assault. When the time came, the First Pharaoh sacrificed himself 
in battle against his brother so that others might escape to build an Egypt that 
could survive the coils of the serpent. From the fragments of the Nagada 
Kingdoms, mighty Egypt would arise and spurn the usurper. The demonic 
blood of Apophis sustained Set and his evil power through the centuries, but 
he could never completely dominate the Two Lands. 
The brief teachings of Osiris were enough for the Cult of Isis to continue 
the battle against Set for thousands of years, and to create a cadre of 42 
immortals who would come back to life again after every death. These 
mummies who benefited from the Spell of Life aided Horus in his eternal 
struggle to avenge the death of his father after Isis chose to leave the earth. 
The Shemsu-heru, or Followers of Horus, spent time after each death resting 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


rld in the city of Amenti. In Duat, they met with the spirits 
of those who had not passed to the Fields of Paradise and who remained tied 
to the earth. In Amenti, they witnessed the invulnerable form of their lord 
Osiris, sitting like a statue on his throne. The Shanu-atiu, the inner circle of 
ghostly priests who guarded him, believed that the god was contemplating the 
truth of the universe and carefully observed him for any change. Writhing 
storms grew in the Underworld as the Devourer Apophis consumed more and 
more of the Deadlands. Meanwhile, the Reborn, as the mummies were 
known, continued to return to the physical world in an attempt to fight the 
serpent’s corruption of the earth. Despair seeped in like a deadly poison, 
promising a terrible end. 
THE GHOST STORM 
The innermost group of Osiris priests, the Pylons of the Shanu-atiu, 
never lost hope. A number of times, the great throne of Osiris had been 
mysteriously found empty. The first time, they kept it to themselves for fear 
of the great panic it would cause in the Underworld. When their lord 
mysteriously reappeared, they rejoiced but maintained the same policy of 
shrouding any of his occasional absences from all outsiders until they could 
discover the reason why. Even the Shanu-atiu did not know where the god 
of the Resurrection went during his sojourns, though they did know that one 
such period happened around 2780 B.C.E. (at one of the changes of the 
Sothic cycle), and another occurred during the first three decades of the 
Common Era. 
The disappearances of Osiris seemed to precede the terrible surges in the 
black coils of Apophis that stormed through the Underworld. The worst Duat 
storms always came before some tremendous and terrible event in the 
material realm. So the disappearances of Osiris came to be a warning of future 
danger. When the most recent Maelstrom swept through the Underworld, 
however, the Shanu-atiu were completely unprepared, for their lord did not 
move until the full fury of the storm blasted Amenti into the desert of Duat. 
The fierce cataclysm has been named Dja-akh, or the Ghost Storm, by those 
few dead who were not shattered or destroyed outright. The scattered Shanu- 
atiu were paralyzed by fear, knowing that such devastation could only be the 
Deathmarks that promised some new atrocity in the world. And judging by 
the power of the Dja-akh, it would be the worst ever, perhaps even the end 
of it all. They searched frantically for any sign of the return of the Lord of Life. 
Their search led to the Web of Faith. 
THE WEB OF FAITH 
Sites of great power dot the Holy Land, some within famous cities and 
others buried in the wastes of the trackless desert. Energy flows between these 
areas, ebbing and flowing like the Nile. As pilgrims journey to reach the focus 
of their devotion, so does the essence of the universe gather in these places. 
The ancient Egyptians called this vital spiritual force Sekhem, and priests 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


sought to direct the power of the gods through their temple 
of the dead. Later cultures sought tap into the same energy. 
The Arabs in particular built beautiful mosques, some with the same 
stones that once graced Egyptian sites, and tried to unite the entire Holy Land 
in one system of temporal and mystical perfection. Their efforts brought 
together an awesome collection of places touched by the divine, but they 
ultimately failed in the face of internal division and European Crusades. 
Nevertheless, the links between the holy places remain visible to those aware 
of such things. Though centuries of conflict threatened the fabric of this 
spiritual network, sorcerers and mystics learned to strengthen and tap into its 
power. The builders and protectors of this invisible lattice of divine energy 
called it the Web of Faith. 
WhentheDja-akhswept through theghostlycityofAmenti, it destroyed 
the refuge of the dead and destroyed nearly all of its inhabitants. Osiris saw 
the storm coming, but even he could not stop it, nor could anyone flee far 
enough to avoid it. So he remained and protected as many of the residents the 
best he could. As the terrible storm ravaged his holy city and shattered his 
people, Osiris struggled to hold back its worst fury. Eventually the god’s power 
was exhausted in the face of Apophis’ relentless darkness. The beleaguered 
Osiris finally fell back and entered the Web of Faith. He tapped into its holy 
essence to heal and search for ways to save his scattered children. There in the 
Web, he felt all of the resting places of his once-shattered body and the faint 
threads of flights across the desert made by the birds that once brought him 
back together. 
The Lord of Life and Death gathered the remaining fragments of his lost 
children and sent them out to find their own new bodies. 
MUMMY MYTHOLOGY 
Laws of the Resurrection draws its inspiration from actual Egyptian 
myth, filtered through the shadows of the World of Darkness. Osiris, Set, Isis, 
Ma’at and Apophis are the central players in the game’s cosmology. A great 
degree of their detail is directly derived from Egyptian myth, but much has 
been changed to fit the World of Darkness stories told over the years. Players 
and Storytellers are strongly encouraged to investigate the wonders of 
Egyptian mythology for themselves. 
THE RESURRECTED 
What sets the Amenti aside from their ancient counterparts is that they 
are the union of a fragmented Egyptian spirit and a modem person. The 
various soul aspects of the Egyptianspirit result in differences in the Third Life 
that they lead in communion with their modem hosts. The very tasks once 
borne by the fragments have naturally shaped their preferences in choosing 
a modem partner with whom to bond in perpetual union. The mixture of 
common personalities found within surviving ancient spirits and their 
choices among contemporary humans, and the spiritual abilities they gain by 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


joining, naturally detine mummies with very different outlooks and special 
aptitudes. 
Each of the mummy types is determined by its tem-akh, which is the 
“completing spirit” that has joined with the deceased mortal to resurrect her. 
Thus, as the ka once guarded the body exclusively, the resurrected partner 
bound with the ka tem-akh becomes a Kher-minu, or Tomb Watcher. 
Different soul tem-akh are skilled in particular types of Hekau, or Egyptian 
magic, and that specialization is brought to the union. As the Resurrected 
learn the depth of their purpose in creation and abide by it, their talent 
naturally grows. Yet the ancient spirits’ pursuits of separate goals created an 
inherent focus. Difficulty acting outside their spiritual roles is the proper 
balance to the power they gained by properly following their mythic purpose. 
The Amenti do not organize themselves automatically according to their 
tern-akh. After all, it’s not like you can just look at another Amenti and know 
what sort of spirit brought about his Resurrection. Some Amenti have never 
even encountered another mummy before. Nonetheless, because of common 
behaviors displayed by certain tem-akh, there are some generalizations that 
can be applied. 
THE EM-AKH 
Kher-minu, the Tomb Watchers: The ka is that part of the soul the 
Egyptians envisioned as remaining in the vicinity of the khat in order to 
protect it until the resurrection. Those who become Kher-minu become 
protectors, beginning first with their own bodies and expanding their duties 
to the rest of the world. They specialize in Amulet magic due to its protective 
might, and they shun harmful vices. 
Khri-habi, the Scroll-bearers: The ba appears in Egyptian art as a bird 
with a human head. Its reputed role was to travel about performing the various 
duties in the afterlife that ensured the resurrection of the body. Scroll-bearers 
are potent healers. They learn Alchemy as they dream of purifying the entire 
world in order to heal its wounds. 
Mesektet, the Night Suns: The sahu portion of the soul is the part the 
Egyptians viewed as the incorruptible and everlasting essence that passed 
onwards to the heavens to reside with the gods. Returned from heaven, these 
souls wield Celestial magic, which lets them see the future and call upon the 
power of earth and sky. 
Sakhmu, the Spirit Scepters: The khu was an Egyptian concept that 
imagined a part of the soul as an intangible covering over the body. This 
shining essence stands as the inspirational gateway between the physical and 
spiritual realm. Sakhmu learn potent Effigy magic, allowing their inner light 
to empower their artistic creations to change the world (whether earthly or 
Duat) . 
Sefekhi, the Unbandaged Ones: The khaibit is that part of the Egyptian 
being pictured as the shadow of the animating essence. These driven 
mummies turn their base instincts and darkest emotions against the servants 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


...  _ i . _ . . _ _ ,  
_. 
of Apophis. They possess a knack for the magic of Necromancy and carry the 
wounds of Osiris on their bodies as symbolic scars. 
Udja-sen, the Judged Ones: In the union between an Amenti spirit and 
a dying mortal, a lot can go wrong. Not every soul that remained within the 
city of Osiris in the Underworld is fit in the eyes of Ma'at, nor is every mortal. 
The Judged Ones are those souls given a second chance, yet are left 
incomplete due to the amputation of their corrupted spirit. They seek new 
purpose, while being keenly aware of the suffering caused by Apophis. 
THE FACTIONS 
The organizations to which the Amenti gravitate tend to be religious, 
economic, or social groups. The special circumstances and history of the 
Resurrected have resulted in the formation of factions that pursue particular 
goals as a team. 
CULT OF ISIS 
From the day of her descent to earth, the goddess Isis served as a mother 
model for Mankind. Her experience as mother, sister, magician and preserver 
of her husband in death gifted her with great patience and made her beloved 
by the populace. Before she departed the earth - 
either ascending to live 
with the sky gods, or choosing to die to be with her husband, whatever the 
belief may be - 
she imparted her wisdom to her worshippers. The most 
faithful of these adherents kept alive the faith in Egyptian gods. They 
protected and served her immortal son Horus and withstood the ravenous 
depredations of the servants of Set. 
As centuries passed, faith was diluted, wisdom faded, and the Cult of Isis 
fell into disarray. The usurper, Set, nearly destroyed the cult in the time of 
Cleopatra and stole the precious Spell of Life from them. The Cult barely 
survived, but was distrusted by the same mummies they once created. Cult 
leaders despaired, and turned to the gods of conquerors or the service of Set. 
As the years passed, memories of the goddess became clouded and obscured. 
In the last decade of the 20th century, the Cult of Isis suddenly became 
active again, though torn by the millennia of division into splinter faiths. 
Some began to seek out the ancient mummies still loyal to Horus in a 
desperate effort to return them to life, while others tried to revive the use of 
the lost Spell of Life. Studies of Egyptology reached levels not seen since the 
beginning of the century. 
Toward the end of the decade, more attuned cult members moved to the 
Middle East and started to gather together the lost fragments of the Spell of 
Life and various artifacts buried in the sand. As the Amenti began their 
inexorable pilgrimage home, the Cult of Isis waited to resume the role of the 
ancient mother goddess. Her children return, and the Cult brings them into 
the world, swaddled in bandages and crying for understanding. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CHILDREN OF OSIRIS 
According to the eldest among the Children of Osiris, they were once 
ghuls - 
what the Europeans call vampires. When Osiris descended to the 
earth, he proclaimed the end of cannibalism. A wise ghul named Khetamon 
turned from the path of darkness and went to speak to the god. Osiris looked 
into his heart and saw that he truly wished to cease feasting upon the living 
but could not. The First Pharaoh blessed the repentant Khetamon and taught 
him to fight against the corruption that lurked within his spirit. The eldest 
Children say that the god let Khetamon drink his blood for purification. The 
merciful actions of the god-king brought more of the blood demons of Khem 
out of hiding and into holy practices bent upon their redemption. As the strict 
religious discipline and deep philosophical teachings of the god gave them 
new meaning, the dead ones began to call themselves the Children of Osiris. 
When Osiris was slain, Khetamon acted as the cult’s leader for centuries 
before Set’s followers slew him as well. The Children continued their search 
for inner peace. 
When Osiris entered the Web of Faith, the faithful and faithless alike 
gained their reward. Those of the Children of Osiris who had remained true 
to his teachings and fought against their own demonic hearts found their 
inner darkness cast out. They returned to life, finally able to relish the mortal 
lives denied to them so long ago. Other Children who had fallen from the 
path and who had taken up the forbidden practices of the blood demons were 
destroyed, with their souls judged upon the scales of Ma’at. The god of the 
Resurrection brought an end to the curse of every one of his children, either 
through final death or by granting of a mortal life. The remaining (now 
mortal) Children of Osiris gathered those who would listen to their teachings 
and awaited the coming of the Amenti in their holy sites, especially Abydos. 
Some of the returning dead are dangerously violent due to their inability 
to overcome their raging khaibits. Centuries of struggle against a bloodthirsty 
nature make the Children all too familiar with the dangers of letting such 
individuals rampage through society and grant great insight into how to 
redeem them. 
SHEMSU-HERU 
Thousands of years ago, lsis resurrected the first of the mummies. These 
Resurrected beings joined Horus, son of Isis and Osiris, in his quest to avenge 
the death of his father and to destroy the usurper Set. They became known 
as the Shemsu-Heru, or Followers of Horus, and slowly gained in numbers 
until there was one for each of the 42 Judges of Ma’at. Most of them despaired 
after hundreds of lifetimes were spent returning to the same worldly trials. A 
few turned from service to the Avenger and pursued their own agendas. 
A small group of the Shemsu-Heru remained firmly loyal to their earthly 
god and his Father. When Osiris returned to the Holy Lands and entered the 
Web of Faith, he spoke to his son, commanding him to enact the second 
Resurrection. Horus gathered together the faithful, and after ritual suicide, 
they underwent the new Spell of Life. These ancient mummies gained the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


pure life-force they had been without for so many centuries. Horus and his 
disciples returned to life, ready to lead the newly Resurrected into a courageous 
new world. 
The ancient mummies who kept their loyalty to the rightful inheritor of 
the First Pharaoh, and to the precepts of Ma’at, are immensely powerful 
beings. They are respected by the Amenti who remember them, and feared 
by those who seek to defy them. They are called Imkhu, or Revered Ones, by 
the Amenti spirits that retain memories of times when the dying mummies 
came to visit them in the Underworld city of Osiris. They combine nearly 
complete memories of scores of lifetimes with the vibrant life-force of the 
Resurrection. 
Horus and his Imkhu advisors returned to his greatest temple, still 
standing in Edfu. It is said that the son of Osiris has become a hawk-headed 
god whose presence is too powerful for most to withstand for any length of 
time without losing themselves to selfless worship. Apparently only the 
Imkhu have the strength of spirit to resist his divine influence for long, and 
they usually act as intermediaries for Horus, as much to protect visitors as to 
defend their god. 
The Followers of Horus have grown in ranks again. Mortals and younger 
mummies who behold the Avenger feel the spirit of the divine and are 
inspired with newfound faith. Visiting Resurrected are accorded great respect 
by the mortal adherents of the son of Osiris, and sometimes groups will seek 
to join a mummy in her work. 
ESET-A 
Legends say that Isis sent the birds of the air to recover the lost portions 
of the god-king Osiris, which had been spread across Egypt by the villainy of 
his evil brother Set. Splinter faiths within the Cult of Isis and the Children 
of Osiris believe that each of the resting places of Osiris’ body parts held relics 
that absorbed portions of the god’s divine energy. In a mirror of the gathering 
of the god’s body, they seek to collect the artifacts that hold his Sekhem so 
that they might rebuild him. Other factions feel that this approach borders 
on blasphemy, especially since some Eset-a insist that the Islamic holy Ka’ba 
is the heart of the God of Life and Death. 
Unfortunately, many of the sites of the god’s remnants have been 
pillaged over the millennia, and their artifacts have been scattered around the 
world. Thus the Let-a search has been extended internationally. Their 
influence may be partly responsible for the shift in many governments’ 
policies toward returning Egyptian relics to their homeland. The dangers 
posed by the possibility that mundane individuals could unknowingly destroy 
or further fragment the vessels that bear the essence of Osiris sometimes move 
the Eset-a to desperate measures. They are not above theft or bribery for the 
opportunity to study treasures to ascertain if they might be one of the lost 
Remnants of Osiris. The Imkhu do not approve of this “ends justifies the 
means” attitude. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ASHUKHI 
By all accounts, the fortunes of the Ashukhi Company changed when a 
careless driver struck down its owners. Until that time, the little import 
company hadstruggled, but after the owners’ children sold it to a new interest, 
the company found unexpected aid and monetary direction. Along with the 
adoption of a new Egyptian ram’s head logo, the company began a path of 
illogical investments in a bizarre mix of innovative technology and 
archaeological study. 
The Ashukhi Company invests in people. With each new applicant to 
the eternal payroll, the company changes its direction in ways that defy 
observers’ predictions. Yet the continuing financial growth combined with 
incredibly charitable contribution to scientific study seems to indicate genius 
in the improvement of mankind’s future and respect for his past. The 
resurrected mummies who work with the Ashukhi Company seek to build a 
better world. Directly competing against the gigantic corporations that shape 
the modem world is currently beyond the scope of Ashukhi, but the company 
helps provide a way for mummies to bury their assets between lives, and a hope 
for significant economic clout sometime to come. 
Ashukhi should not be confused with the ruthless corporations of the 
WorldofDarkness. It isnowhere near thesizeofsuchgargantuanmonstrosities, 
nor does it benefit from the grotesqueries of economic slavery, environmental 
rape, and intentional socio-political corruption. The company also does not 
share the faceless nature of corporate Goliaths. Though employees’ histories 
and identities are kept confidential to those outside the company, for obvious 
reasons of protection, secrets within the company are rare. It is known, for 
example, that Horus owns portions of company stock and that the company’s 
goals are ultimately altruistic. 
SHUANKHSEN: THE LIFELESS 
Over the ages, some mummies have left the fold of the Shemsu-Heru and 
pursued their own agendas. A few groups even put together their own versions 
of the Spell of Life. After the theft of the Spell of Life by Set and the 
subsequent creation of hideous Bane Mummies, Horus angrily demanded an 
end to all use of the spell and sought to destroy those who defied his will. 
When the Dja-akh struck, most were destroyed because they were not under 
the protection of Osiris. A few may survive, as long as they continue to 
successfully skirt the Judges of Ma’at. 
The Shuankhsen are those mummies who are not properly alive. Their 
life force is somehow empty or unfinished, and the Resurrection is noticeably 
imperfect to the supernaturally sensitive. Some of the flawed Shuankhsen 
were called “Ishmaelites” after the first mummy known to leave the service 
of Horus. Others were called “Cabiri” after the Greek alchemist who discovered 
the spell in Egypt. The Ishmaelites and Cabiri are virtually extinct. Most have 
fallen to the Judgment of Ma’at and were sent to the afterlife permanently or 
were caught in the Ghost Storm and shattered. Few exist, and their numbers 
continue to shrink. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


APEPNU 
The most horrific of the Shuankhsen were created by a stolen version of 
the Spell of Life cast by the dark god Set. The flawed Resurrected created in 
this fashion were Reborn as terrible anthropomorphic monstrosities, infested 
with demonic spirits that served the seven faces of Apophis. Bane Mummies 
served two masters over the millennia. On earth they were subject to the will 
of Set, yet each death plunged them into the grasp of the Devourer. Once Set 
went into hiding, they gained more independence. Set’s ghul followers 
gradually found their Undying allies more and more treacherous. 
Before the Dja-akh struck, the demonic Apophis warned his children. 
Hungry for greater power, the seven Bane Mummies gathered together in a 
dismal prison camp for Iraqi prisoners in Saudi Arabia, not far from the Rub 
a1 Khali. As the Ghost Storm tore across the Empty Quarter, the faces of 
Apophis joined their ritual victims in death. They glutted themselves on the 
unclean shards of djinn and souls that swept across the wasteland. Returning 
to a semblance of life filled with stolen power, the evil coven parted ways, 
determined to stop the Resurrection of Osiris. 
Along with other sinister gifts, the Bane Mummies have learned the art 
of gifting dead bodies with the Bane-spirits they command, thereby 
transforming corpses into animated minions. These vicious servants seek to 
slay the Resurrected at every turn. Fortunately, mummies rarely encounter 
the seven deadly Faces of Apophis, but their Asekh-sen, or Reapers, are 
becoming an increasing problem. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE EGYPTIAN PANTHEON 
The ancient Egyptian people worshipped a variety of gods beyond Osiris, 
Isis, Set and Apophis, although these are central to the world ofResurrection. 
What follows are the most well-known gods, most of which were worshipped 
for eons of history. 
Anubis - 
The jackal-headed god was the son of Osiris by Set’s wife 
Nephtys after she seduced him, an act that only strengthened Set’s hatred of 
his brother. Although he was considered the first god of the dead, as his father 
rose to prominence, he became known as the psychopomp, or the conductor 
of the dead through the Underworld. He was also known as a messenger 
(particularly in the Underworld), the god of mummification (he is often 
depicted on tombs mummifying pharoahs), and possessor of unmatched 
wisdom regarding death. 
Apophis -The Great Serpent was the foe of the sun-god Ra, dwelling 
in shadow and venturing out only in attempts to devour the sun. 
Bast - 
Bast was known as a keeper of secrets, and blessing the faithful 
and punishing the wicked with equal ferocity. She is usually depicted with the 
head of a cat and the body of a woman. Her worship was strongly tied to the 
notion of the cat as a sacred animal. 
Bes -This misshapen dwarf was said to be so ugly that he scared even 
demons, so he was often called upon to protect women in childbirth and 
newborns, both tempting targets for evil spirits. Bes was also invoked as a god 
of luck and sexuality. While never formally accepted like Ra and Osiris, he 
was nonethless beloved enough that mortals suffering from dwarfism were 
blessed in his name. 
Geb- Believed to be the father of Osiris, the spouse of the sky-goddess 
Nuit and the very earth that we walk upon. 
Hathor -This goddess was revered as the patron of artists, musicians 
and dancers, and associated with happiness and relief of earthly cares. 
Egyptian queens were believed to be her earthly incarnation, and wore horns 
honoring her in ceremonial headdresses. She is usually depicted as a woman 
with the head of a horned cow. 
Horus - 
This mighty god is often depicted as a man with the head of 
a falcon, often with one eye (the other lost to an attempt by Set to slay him). 
The son of Osiris and Isis, he took up the fight against murderous Set after 
Osiris was forced to descend to the Underworld. 
Imhotep - 
Originally a mortal man who was the vizier and architect 
of the Pharoah Djoser, he designed the early pyramid of Saqqara and created 
the engineering that would later lead to the Great Pyramids at Giza. His 
accomplishments as physician, astrologer and scientist were so impressive 
that a cult honoring him sprang up after his death. His followers deified him, 
claiming that he was the son of Ptah, the creator god. 
Isis - 
Called the Queen of Heaven, Isis was the sister-wife of Osiris 
and the mother of Horus. She helped bring civilization to Egypt with the gifts 
of agriculture and medicine. She was also considered the mother of all magic, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the-finest sorceress in the universe, and some called her Weret-Hekau or 
“Great Magic.” She was usually depicted as a woman wearing a vulture 
headdress or wearing a headdress of the solar disk between two horns. 
Khonsu - 
Called the god of the moon and associated with time, he 
is often believed to be close to Thoth. He was always depicted as a young man 
with a royal sidelock, often playing a game of chance with Thoth. 
Ma’at - The daughter of Ra and wife of Thoth, she was the 
personification of truth, justice and order. She presided over the judgment of 
the dead, weighing her feather against the heart of the deceased to determine 
if he had led a virtuous life. She was shown as a tall woman with an ostrich 
feather on her head, sometimes with wings attached to her arms, and her 
symbols were the ostrich feather and the scales. 
Nephthys -The sister-wife of Set, she was later known as aprotector 
of the dead. She seduced Osiris and gave birth to the jackal-headed Anubis. 
Nephthys helped Isis recover her husband after Set slew him. 
Nuit -The spouse of the earth-god Geb, she is depicted as a woman 
with a blue body covered with stars, arching high over Geb and touching him 
only with the tips of her fingers and toes. She was said to protect the world 
from the outer darkness and the demons that lurked there. 
Osiris - 
As the god of life and death, lord of the Underworld, judge 
of the dead, patron of the Nile’s flooding and vegetation, Osiris symbolized 
life, death and rebirth. As the first living thing to die, he became lord of the 
dead. He is usually depicted as a man whose body is in white mummy 
wrappings or dressed as a pharoah, wearing the crowns of Egypt and having 
the green skin symbolic of life and vegetation. 
Ra -The sun-god was alternately claimed to be the solar disk moving 
across the heavens or the father of the other gods. Egyptians believed that he 
sailed across the sky in a might barge by day, then plunged into the 
Underworld at night where he would encounter Apophis. 
Sekhmet - 
This lioness-headed goddess loved the heat and noise of 
battle, and Ra often sent her to destroy his enemies. She was believed to ride 
into battle beside the Pharaohs, and was called the Eye of Ra. 
Set - 
Most often depicted as a man with the head of a large-eared 
animal (possibly a donkey), he was the lord of storms and violence. Jealous 
of Osiris’ rule over men, he sought to destroy his brother and ultimately did 
so when he forced Osiris into the Underworld. Horus continues the struggle 
against him. 
Sobek - 
Sobek, usually shown as a man with the head of a crocodile, 
was believed to be a bodyguard to the gods, keeper of the crocodile and the 
Nile, and the protector of the Pharaoh, especially from evil magic. 
Thoth - 
Myth disagrees with where exactly Thoth came from. Some 
claim he was a child of Ra, but others believed that he created himself from 
the power of language, making him a master of Hekau. He was revered as the 
scribe of the gods, the one who recorded the passing of time, the teacher of 
Mankind and the inventor of writing. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE LANDS OF FAITH 
Called by many the cradle of civilization, the lands of the Middle East are 
the sites of intense religious and political struggle. The Amenti call this 
region the Lands of Faith. Behind the scenes, the Lands of Faith are important 
in the struggles between the factions of the World of Darkness, as each seeks 
to claim the area’s physical and spiritual resources. This conflict led to the 
creation of the first mummies long ago, and to the awakening of Osiris and 
the creation of a new generation of the Reborn. These Reborn have come to 
claim their troubled land and restore Ma’at to it. They have a difficult task 
ahead of them. Ironically, the Web of Faith is the cause of much of the strife 
and conflict between its people. 
THE MlEB OF FAITH 
The origins of the Web of Faith are tied to the history of Osiris. When 
Set slew Osiris, he tore his body into 16 parts: his head, the soles of his feet, 
his bones, his arms, his heart, his interior, his tongue, his eyes, his fist, his 
fingers, his back, his ears, his loins, his body, his head with the face of a ram, 
and his hair. Set scattered Osiris’ body across Egypt, and the Eset-a and others 
believe that these locations were mystically linked by the god’s essence. The 
historically recorded locations attributed to the parts of Osiris are: Ament of 
Koptos, Aa-ab in Elephantine, At-rut-f in Herkaleopolis Magna, Kusae, 
Heliopolis, An-Ament in Sma-behutet (Diopolis), Letopolis, Pa-Thuhen in 
Sais, Meh-ta-f in Hermoplis, Athribis, Aq (Scedia), Ab in the Lybyan nome, 
Het-sera in the city of Netert, and Apis. 
Most Eset-a believe that this inconsistency of 14 locations and 16 parts 
is saved by the fact that the “face of a ram” is an allegory for one of the 
representations of the creator and the fact that Osiris’ “loins” were swallowed 
by a naru fish (according to legend). The ritual self-disfigurement of the 
mummies known as the Sefekhi follows this same pattern replicated in 
gruesome personal scarification. Not surprisingly, they are one of the chief 
supporters of the Eset-a. 
At the beginning of the first millennium, Horus declared that the 
Shemsu-heru mummies should fight Apophis on every front. He felt that the 
war against the Great Corrupter had turned Egypt into a conquered state and 
that it was time to carry that war to every comer of the world. This war was 
the Diaspora, and the Shemsu-heru spent most of the next 2000 years far from 
their ancient homes fighting it. 
While the followers of Horus wandered the world, wizards in the Middle 
East worked their magic. Devoted to the cause of unity, the Subtle Ones 
proposed an alliance with other sorcerers in their lands. They sought an end 
to the conflicts between them, and to help reinforce the wards created by King 
Solomon to keep the djinn from civilized lands. 
The sorcerers proposed to magically link the holy sites of the Lands of 
Faith. Like a network of canals bringing water to the desert, Sekhem would 
flow among them, carried by the power of human faith through prayer or 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


pilgrimage. This power would be drawn to a central place then circulated back 
out through the web like the beating of a great heart. Representatives of 
different magical traditions discussed the plan and agreed on a center that 
would be based in the spirit world. 
Perhaps due to the foundations laid by Osiris’ death, the plan was more 
successful than any hoped. Not only did the Web of Faith bring the many 
different mystics of the land together in peace, but it also cast a powerful life- 
affirming energy across the land. Its power technically reaches across the 
whole world, but it is only truly strong in the homelands of the Subtle Ones 
and their allies. The borders of the Web of Faith are difficult to trace except 
by the most potent mystics, but they are believed to extend as far south as 
Tanzania, as far west as the Straits of Gibraltar, as far north as Turkey, and as 
far east as Pakistan. 
THE MODERN LANDS OF FAITH 
It is beyond the scope of this work to provide an atlas and history of the 
entire Middle East, as to do so would rival a library the size of the legendary 
one found in Alexandria. Nonetheless, it would be erroneous not to mention 
areas of special interest to the Amenti and other Reborn. 
EGYPT: THE TWO LANDS 
Egypt has obviously changed since its days as the height of human 
civilization. Still, the monuments built by the ancient Egyptians remain some 
of the most majestic in the world. Egypt remains at the heart of the cause of 
the Amenti, and it is their spiritual homeland. 
Modem Egypt is made up of two ancient lands that were united by the 
ancient pharaohs. Upper and Lower Egypt - 
the latter so named because it 
lies farthest from the source of the Nile -was known as Khem, or “the Black 
Land,”due to the rich dark soil deposited by the river during its annual floods. 
Upper Egypt is known as Deshret or “the Red Land,” and it lies closest to the 
source of the Nile. Upper Egypt is mostly made up of forbidding deserts, and 
it is here that the Amenti say Osiris banished Set. Modem residents refer to 
the country as Misr, which means “Egypt,” as well as “inhabited andcivilized.” 
ALEXANDRIA 
Modern Alexandria is a city of more than four million people situated 
along the Mediterranean Sea. It is one of the most cosmopolitan areas in 
Egypt, and it carries a strong European influence. The inhabitants have 
recently been making an effort to recapture some of the city’s lost Egyptian 
heritage. The Amenti carefully encourage this effort. Ancient Alexandria 
was the stronghold of the Cult of Isis for centuries and it remains so today. The 
Cult of Isis dreams of restoring the Great Library of Alexandria. 
CAIRO 
The capital city of Egypt, with its teeming suburbs and greater surrounding 
areas, holds over 16 million inhabitants. The region had been inhabited for 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


thousands of years, and every culture that contacted the Egyptians left its 
mark upon the area, but it was the Arabs who made it into a great city. The 
Fatimids founded Cairo in the 10th century, following their conquest of 
Egypt. They named the city A1 Qahira, which means “the victorious.’’ 
Denizens of the city generally refer to it as “Misr,” the same as Egyptians, and 
they rarely use the foreign “Cairo.” The Amenti keep a low profile in Cairo 
for the moment, learning what they can about the powerful servants of 
Apophis, which they find infest the city. Storytellers seeking more information 
might consult Cairo by Night. 
GIZA 
Located across the Nile, the city of Giza is a suburb of greater Cairo, 
although nearly two million people live there. Giza is best known as home of 
the great pyramids and the Sphinx. The three major structures of Giza are the 
pyramid of Khufu (also called the Great Pyramid), the pyramid of Khefra, and 
the pyramid of Mankare. Surrounding them are smaller queens’ pyramids, 
temples, noble tombs and ancient mastabahs. The pyramids attract hundreds 
of thousands of people to Egypt each year. As some of the most ancient tombs 
of Egypt, they are asymbol of Ma’at and a place to enter the Lands of the Dead. 
Some Amenti are sure that chambers exist within pyramids that remain 
undiscovered by archaeologists. Some Amenti may even bear personal links 
to treasures of knowledge lost in these hidden rooms. 
Giza is also home to the Sphinx. Although the Sphinx dates back to the 
building of the pyramid of Khefra, many speculate that it may be older. Stories 
attribute the Sphinx magical powers, including the ability to speak to people 
throughdreams and visions. It is said to keep watchover thepyramids, though 
it actually faces away from them and stares into the rising sun. 
EDFU 
Horus and his Imkhu advisors returned to his greatest temple, still 
standing in Edfu, between Isna and Aswan in Egypt. Though most of the 
original city of Djeba has fallen into rubble, the temple of Horus still stands 
near this pleasant town whose major exports are sugar and pottery. The 
Avenger and his followers have taken control of the excavations of Egyptian 
mastabahs and Byzantine houses that lie hidden by the passing of ages. As 
home to the hawk-headed god, Edfu is the center of the Shemsu-hem. 
ABYDOS 
The ruins of Abydos lie along the Nile in Middle Egypt. Although of only 
mild interest to tourists, Abydos is of vital importance to the Amenti. The 
city was the stronghold of the Cult of Isis and the Children of Osiris for 
centuries. Legend says that Abydos is where Osiris’ head fell after Set tore his 
body to pieces, and that it is where his remains were interred after Set cast him 
into the Lands of the Dead the second time. 
Most of the original city of Abydos has vanished from the Lands of the 
Living, leaving only a few recognizable ruins. In Neter-khertet, however 
Abydos exists as a necropolis of ancient buildings and temples devoted to 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.  
-we 
OsGis. It survived the ghost storm virtually unscathed, and it is a safe haven 
for spirits of Ma’at. The Children of Osiris consider Abydos their greatest holy 
site. 
OTHER TOMBS 
While Giza and the Sphinx gamer the attention of tourists, there are 
other magnificent and important sites that dot the Egyptian landscape and sit 
upon powerful parts of the Web of Faith. They range from pyramids to 
mastabahs, and some even predate those found at Giza. 
Memphis is an ancient city that was the capitol of Egypt for thousands 
of years before the construction of Cairo, and it symbolized the power of the 
pharaohs. The mud bricks and most of the city’s buildings have long since 
given way to time, but Memphis still exists and thrives across the Shroud in 
Neter-khertet. 
West of the ruins of Memphis lies Saqqara, the ancient burial place of the 
Old Kingdom from the time of the Third Dynasty. Saqqara contains a number 
of tombs, including the oldest pyramid in the world, the step-pyramid of 
Djoser-Netcherikhe, which was built by Egyptian architect and wizard 
Imhotep over 4500 years ago. Imhotep was so renowned that he was 
eventually deified. 
The temple at Luxor is located along the shore of the Nile in the center 
of downtown Luxor. It was built primarily during the reign of Amenhotep 111 
on top of a Middle Kingdom site. The temple features granite statues of 
Ramses I1 and inscriptions honoring Amenhotep, Julius Caesar and Alexander 
the Great. The temple served as a ceremonial joining place for the gods 
commemorating the conception of the moon god Khonsu. 
The temple at Karnak is the most majestic and complex ancient temple 
remaining in modern Egypt. Karnak is located several miles north of the 
Luxor temple. The Avenue of Sphinxes connects the two sites, originally 
lined with statues of smaller sphinxes. Karnak became the primary residence 
of the pharaohs during the 18th Dynasty, and each pharaoh continued to 
expand the complex. Now it is mainly a tourist attraction, though the Cult 
of Isis maintains access to the temple’s inner chambers. 
The ruins of ancient Thebes include mortuary temples dedicated to 
many famous pharaohs, including Ramses 11. Hundreds of tombs can be seen 
across from Luxor on the western banks of the Nile. Several miles west of the 
remains of Thebes stands a mountain peak that hedges one of Egypt’s greatest 
archeological sites, the Valley of Kings. Late dynasties wanted to protect their 
tombs from robbers, so they built them in a narrow valley guarded by high 
cliffs on three sides, and accessible only through a single narrow pass. The 
plan was unsuccessful and most of the tombs were plundered long before they 
were rediscovered in the modern era. Ancient tem-akh speak of undiscovered 
tombs and secret entrances to the Valley of the Kings. Some Amenti use the 
sites to conduct powerful rituals or as resting places for their khat during 
death. 
. . .  
. . . . . 
. . . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


As might be expected, the Valley of Queens does not lie far from-the 
Valley of Kings. It is a special burial area for the wives and children of the 
Pharaohs. Families were often interred with the pharaoh, but this practice 
changed during the rule of Ramses I, presumably as a further effort to ensure 
the safety of the pharaoh‘s tomb. Like the Valley of Kings, the Valley of 
Queens contains hidden tombs known only to the Amenti and other servants 
of Osiris. 
ARABIA 
As has been noted, the Web of Faith actually extends far beyond the 
borders of Egypt. The Amenti often focus on their homeland in Egypt because 
it offers them a rich trove of lost knowledge, powerful access to holy sites of 
Osiris, and the comfort of lands held fondly in their ancient memories. 
Nevertheless, the Web of Faith includes many other important locations, 
notably Mecca in Arabia. 
MECCA 
The holy city of Mecca is the heart of the Muslim world. Five times each 
day, Muslims pray toward the Ka’ba of the holy city. Millions of pilgrims visit 
Mecca each year as part of the hajj, which is the pilgrimage that is the fifth 
pillar of the Islamic faith (and from which the mummy pilgrimage borrows its 
name). Mecca was a holy city even before the coming of the Prophet. The 
Ka’ba housed pagan idols worshipped by the Bedouin tribes, and the city was 
a place for meetings and festivals along the ancient caravan routes. 
When Mohammed first brought the word of Allah to the city, he was 
driven out and forced to flee to Medina. The Prophet gathered his forces there 
and returned to seize Mecca. He cast out the pagan idols from the Ka’ba, 
reconsecrating it to Allah. Ever since then, Mecca has been the greatest 
stronghold of the Islamic faith and one of the holiest places on Earth. 
In the World of Darkness, Mecca is protected from some of the power of 
isfret by the faith invested in the city over the centuries. It is also protected 
by the powerful energies that flow through the Web of Faith into Mecca, and 
through the Ka’ba along the lines established by the mystics who constructed 
it. 
The Ka’ba, or the “House of God,” is said to have been built by Abraham 
in the time of the Old Testament. It is a cube-shaped building of dark-gray 
stone that sits in the courtyard of the al-Harran mosque. In the southeast 
comer of the Ka’ba is the Black Stone, the “Right Hand of Allah on Earth.” 
It is a large rocksaid to have beengiven to Abraham by the archangel Gabriel. 
Part of the Islamic hajj consists of walking seven times around the Ka’ba and 
kissing the Black Stone in reverence. Some Amenti, particularly of the Eset- 
a faction, call the Black Stone “the Ab of Osiris” and believe that the spiritual 
heart of the Lord of Resurrection resides within it. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE KEENING 
The Ka’ba is the source of the Keening, the mystical noise that torments 
all beings of isfret in Arabia. Wards around the Ka’bacreated by vampires help 
dampen the noise, but they cannot drown it out. 
The spiritual cry of the Keening can be heard only in the Arabian 
peninsula by enemies of Ma’at, including vampires, Bane Mummies, fomori 
and so forth. It is strongest near the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, and 
appears to be tied to Mohammed’s cleansing of those cities and to the sacred 
Black Stone. All enemies of Ma’at hear the sun rise and move across the sky, 
as the sound of the Keening grows in direct proportion to the shining of Ra. 
Those creatures that slumber during the day find their rest disturbed. In game 
terms, a foreign vampire in Arabia must expend one Willpower Trait in order 
to sleep, or he suffers an additional one-Trait difficulty to Courage checks for 
Rotschreck for the following night. It is possible to grow used to the disturbing 
sound though, and after a month of adjustment these penalties do not apply. 
Within 50 miles of Medina and Mecca, the Keening is so powerful that 
it interferes with the supernatural senses of any creature of isfret. Such 
creatures must bid one extra Trait any time they use supernatural senses such 
as Auspex, Ghostsight, sensory Sphere magic, etc. Even Simple Tests require 
the creature of isfret to bid one Trait. Furthermore, the cost of supernatural 
powers is doubled for creatures of isfret when used on Islamic holy ground, 
including all mosques. Powers using blood, Chi, Gnosis, etc., require the 
expenditure of twice the normal number of Traits. Also, no creature of isfret 
can enter Mecca or Medina unless it has been purified by a religious 
pilgrimage. 
RUB AL KHALI: THE EMPTY QWTER 
The southern region of Saudi Arabia is a vast desolate desert known as 
Rub A1 Khali, “The Empty Quarter.’’ The desert is home to only a few 
wandering tribes of Bedouins, with no signs of civilization, and often no 
indications of life. Cities once existed here, but they were home to the 
malevolent djinn called the devil-kings. The followers of the Prophet and 
their allies destroyed those foul places during the Jyhad, and allowed sand and 
time to claim them. What remains is little more than legend. 
The desolation found in the Rub A1 Khali, and perhaps the lingering 
power of the devil-kings, weakens the Web of Faith over this land until it 
unravels to naught in the deepest of the waste. The Reborn find it an 
inhospitable place where they cannot even draw Sekhem from the Web. 
Some Amenti feel they must guard against the forces that gather in the 
deserts. The Bedouin tribes speak of malevolent djinn appearing in the 
desolate depths of the Empty Quarter - 
feral ghuls who hunger for blood, 
wizards who raise storms from nothingness. They speak of ancient evils buried 
in the sand which grow restless.. .. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE LANDS OF THE DEAD 
The ancient Egyptians believed that death was merely a passage into 
another stage of existence, rather than an end. They prepared carefully for 
their journey to this land, anxious to ensure their eternal well-being. 
THE SHROUD 
The Shroud is a wall between the physical and spirit realms that divides 
life from death. It limits the ability of the living to see and feel the presence 
of the dead, and it tries to keep the dead from interfering in the world of the 
living. The Shroud is not uniform in strength; it is often thinner in places with 
a strong connection to faith, spirit and death. It is weakest at sacred sites, 
burial ruins and holy ground. It is little surprise that the Shroud is weaker over 
the whole of the Lands of Faith, particularly in Egypt, than it is elsewhere in 
the world. 
NETER-KNERTET: THE SHADOWLANDS 
Neter-khertet means “divine underworld place.” It is a dark mirror of the 
Lands of the Living that lies just on the other side of the Shroud. The land, 
sea and sky appear much like their earthly counterparts, but they are paler. 
The only things that truly exist inNeter-khertet are the spirits of the dead and 
the spirits of items, or relics, that once inspired strong feelings. Neter-khertet 
is a place made from distant memories and ancient history, which the Lands 
of Faith have in plenty. 
The places that have long since crumbled to dust and ash in the Lands 
of the Living still exist in Neter-khertet, though all have suffered from the 
force of the Dja-akh. Tombs and temples that turned to sand still stand on the 
other side. Those dead who cannot leave the world behind pass among us, just 
on the other side of the Shroud. They cannot touch or affect things in the 
Lands of the Living without expending great energy, yet they derive strength 
from their tenuous connections to the living world. 
PILLARS OF THE WEST 
If you travel westward from Neter-khertet, you eventually enter a vast 
stretch of desert beyond which lie the Pillars of the West. The Pillars are a 
gateway to h a t .  It is difficult to explain to a mortal how to reach the Pillars 
of the West as they are entirely outside of the realm of Neter-khertet. Spirits 
have ways of traveling that defy the physical realm, and when they reach the 
Pillars they are no longer close to the Lands of the Living. They have made 
their way to the Lands of the Dead. 
The Pillars, each carved in the form of one of the 42 Judges of Ma’at, 
support the entrances to 21 great caverns. The caverns lead into a maze of 
underground tunnels through which travelers must find their way in order to 
reach Duat. The caverns and tunnels often contain different challenges to 
test the worthiness of those who enter, which is believed to be the Judges of 
Ma’at invoking their power through the Tests of the Pillars. Sometimes, 
however, a mummy or spirit instead finds a stream where the jackal-headed 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Anubis or one of the Aken waits to carry her into the Byways of the 
Underworld. 
DUAT: THE UNDERWORLD 
The caverns of the Pillars of the West open into an endless black desert 
tom by the raging Dja-akh into an eternal storm which is powerful enough 
to tear a spirit to ribbons. Strange creatures dwell within the depths of the 
storm, howling madly for victims to devour. Travel here is dangerous, but 
thankfully Anubis, the guide and guardian of the dead, created and maintains 
safe pathways through Duat. Such passages are known as Byways, and a 
mummy spirit in the care of Anubis or one of the Aken, his loyal boatmen, 
can usually travel these spirit routes safely. 
Usually Anubis or one of his ghostly boatmen is on hand at the entrance 
to Duat when a spirit arrives from the caverns of the Pillars of the West. 
Should the mummy or spirit specifically seek the Judges of Ma’at, Anubis 
always appears. 
AMENTI: THE RUINED KINGDOM OF SAND 
Amenti was once the grand spiritual city that served as a haven to the 
Egyptian dead. Osiris sat silently as its ruler for millennia and ancient ghosts 
sheltered in his glory, and mummies traveled here between lives. The Dja-akh 
shattered Amenti, and its wraithly citizens were either destroyed outright or 
flayed until they were scattered fragments. The ruins of Amenti lie beneath 
the black desert of Duat, haunted by malevolent ghosts and creatures from the 
depths of the Dja-akh. Few Reborn see any reason to go there, though some 
say the city must surely contain ancient relics and lore that once belonged to 
the Egyptian dead. Regardless, the Amenti bear the name of the city to honor 
its memory and ensure that it is never forgotten. 
THE BLESSED FIELDS OF A’ARU 
The ancient Egyptians spoke of a heaven where their sahu traveled to 
live in peace and plenty. The Fields of A’aru were closed to the other aspects 
of the soul, however, and thus Amenti stood for thousands of years as home 
to the dead. Those who have undergone the new Resurrection are joined into 
one being, however, and Anubis has revealed that they may enter A’aru. In 
this place, their souls find renewal and peace, or they seek the judgment of the 
Judges of Ma’at. 
LEXTCON 
This section presents a lexicon of the mythical terms as mummies in the 
game refer to them. Not every one of the Reborn will know all of these, but 
one can be certain that wise Imkhu and clever Storytellers will use them. 
A’aru, Fields of: A spiritual realm said to be the Egyptian equivalent of 
heaven. After the destruction of Amenti, many surviving Egyptian souls 
moved here. Anubis guides spirits, including those of mummies, who have 
been judged worthy of paradise to these holy fields of rest. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Amenti: The former Egyptian city of the dead in the Underworld, 
destroyed by the Dja-akh. Known by other ghosts as the Dark Kingdom of 
Sand. Now applied to the mummies who arise from fragments of spirits from 
that place. 
Amkhat: Literally “corpse-eater” in ancient Egyptian. One of a cult of 
mortals who practice ritualistic cannibalism, eating humans and mummies to 
gain their strength and power. 
Anubis: Jackal-headed Anubis serves as the messenger of the gods. He 
is also the psychopomp, or conductor of souls in the Underworld, meeting 
Egyptian dead and mummies upon their entry into Duat, and directing them 
to their appropriate destination. 
Apophis: The Great Serpent, enemy of Ma’at and Ra, that seeks to 
devour the sun nightly. A terrible, corrupting influence on all living things, 
he is also called “The Corrupter.” 
Apepnu: Egyptian for Children of Apophis. 
Asekh-sen: ”The Reapers.” Lesser Bane mummies whose limitednumber 
of resurrections depends on the power of evil spirits. The Bane mummy 
Kharebutu created the first Asekh-sen as agents of Apophis and enemies of 
the Reborn, and soon other Apepnu simulated his methods. 
ba: Ancient Egyptian name for the portion of the soul that journeys deep 
into the Underworld. 
Balance: One translation of Ma’at. The meaning of “balance” in Egyptian 
mythology derives from the belief that the goddess Ma’at weighs the heart of 
a dead spirit that comes before her against the feather of Ma’at. Should it be 
suitably free of sin, and therefore balance with the feather of justice, then the 
dead soul is allowed into A’aru. 
Bane Mummies: The seven mummies who serve Apophis and were 
created by a perverted version of the ritual of Resurrection. Also called the 
Faces of Apophis or the Children of Apophis. 
Cabiri (singular Cabirus): Mummies from Europe and Asia Minor who 
were created with avariant of the old Spell of Life. Named after their supposed 
ancient Greek founder. 
Children of Apophis: Servants of the corrupting force known as 
Apophis, including the Bane mummies created by Set, as well as the Asekh- 
sen and Amkhat. Also called Apepnu. 
Code of Horus: The laws that guided Egyptian mummies for millennia. 
Still maintained by the Shemsu-heru. 
Dja-akh: Literally “ghost storm.” The Dja-akh is the latest of the great 
cataclysms to tear through the Shadowlands, the uppermost portion of the 
Lands of the Dead. It destroyed Amenti, and it continues to pose a threat to 
travelers in Duat. It has abated somewhat but still rages in many areas. 
Duat: Also often transliterated “tuat.” It is the Underworld - realms of 
spirit where ghosts reside and mummies go during their death cycles. Also 
called the Lands of the Dead. See also Neter-khertet. 
First Death: The ending of the First Life, marking the passage of the 
ancient Egyptian soul that became a tem-akh into the Underworld ages ago. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


First Life: The lifetime that the mummy’s tem-a 
in ancient Egypt. Memories of this life vary. 
Followers of Set: Properly refers to vampires descended from Set, 
masters of sin and degradation also known as Setites. Many Amenti apply this 
term to any servant of Set, whether vampire or otherwise. 
hamartia: Tragic flaw. The mortal’s worst failure, lost opportunity or 
weakness during her Second Life. The hamartia is often the key to determining 
which type of tern-akh offers her a chance for resurrection. 
Hekau: ”Words of power.” Egyptian magical arts now practiced almost 
exclusively by mummies. 
Horus: Son of Osiris and Isis, he was one of the first mummies. 
Imkhu: Literally “revered.” Refers to Horus and the dozen loyal Shemsu- 
heru who committed ritual suicide and were resurrected by the Children of 
Osiris using the new Spell of Life. 
isfret: Chaos, darkness or disorder - 
that which exists in the absence of 
Ma’at. 
Ishmaelites: Egyptian mummies who have abandoned the Code of 
Horus. While some mummies might apply this term to any rebellious 
mummy, it refers to those who imitated the renegade Ishmael. 
Isis: Sister-wife of Osiris and powerful sorceress. One of the originators 
of the Spell of Life. 
joining, the: The combining of a tem-akh spirit and a recently deceased 
mortal host. The joining is an integral part of the new Spell of Life. 
ka: The portion of the soul that guards a mummy’s corpse while it rests 
in its tomb. 
khaibit: The shadow portion of the soul responsible for drive, desire and 
aggression. Some mummies equate it to the id in Freudian psychology. 
khat: The physical body, it is the corpse left behind when the spirit enters 
the Underworld. 
Khem: “The Black Land.” Ancient Egypt, generally Lower Egypt. 
Named for the land closest to the Nile where the soil was rich and dark. 
Kher-minu: “Tomb Watcher.” Mummies with strong ka spirits. 
Khri-habi: ”Scroll-bearer.’’ Mummies who have strong ha spirits. 
khu: The “shining.” A psychic covering that surrounds the mummy’s 
Lands of the Dead: See Duat. 
Lands of Faith: All the lands within the boundaries of the Web of Faith. 
Approximately the area of the Middle East and a few regions bordering it. 
Lands of the Living: The physical world, inhabited by the living. 
Ma’at: Cosmic order, justice and balance. Mummies believe that Ma’at 
has been overturned, and they seek to restore it. The concept of Ma’at is 
embodied in a goddess of the same name who judges the souls of mummies in 
the Underworld. See also Balance. 
body and spirit. Called “the caul” by some occultists. 
Mesektet: ”Night sun.” Mummies with strong sahu spirits. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


,
.
 
_ 
. 
. 
, 
. . .  
. 
. . . 
.. . . 
. 
mummy: N human tor whom death is only temporary. After a period in 
the Underworld, a mummy returns to the Lands of the Living. Plural, 
mummies. 
nehem-sen: ”Saved one.” The term given to the mortal approached by 
the tem-akh upon her death and offered the resurrection. 
Neter-khertet: Egyptianname for the uppermost layer of the Underworld 
that echoes the living world. Also referred to as the Shadowlands. Separated 
by the worst of the Dja-akh from other regions of Duat. 
Osiris: Egyptian ruler of the Underworld. The first mummy and originator 
of the Spell of Life. Osiris’ spirit now resides within the Web of Faith. 
Reborn, the: Another name for mummies. 
ren: Literally “name.” The true name - 
a vital part of a person’s 
Resurrected, the: Another name for mummies. 
sahu: The spiritual body, an everlasting and eternal soul that passes on 
to paradise upon death. Many sahu returned shortly after the Dja-akh and 
were distraught at the peril of the world. 
existence and soul. 
Sakhmu: ”Spirit Scepter.” Mummies with strong khu spirits. 
Sebayet: ”Teachings.” A body of literature that describes the origins and 
goals of the Shemsu-hem Contains the Code of Horus. 
Second Death: The ending of the Second Life, when the modem mortal 
part of a joining perished. 
Second Life: The life of a modem mortal host before the joining. Also 
known as the life of the khat, because the modem body serves as the home for 
the joined souls of the Reborn. 
Sefekhi: “Unbandaged One.” The term for mummies with powerful 
khaibits. 
Sekhem: Power or life-force, similar to the Chinese concept of Chi. The 
universal energy that flows through the body and soul. 
semektet: The weakened state of a mummy with no Sekhem remaining. 
Set: Brother of Osiris and husband ofNephthys. Set has been the enemy 
of the Reborn since the time of Horus, and the Amenti say he is a slave to 
Apophis. 
Setites: See Followers of Set. 
Shanu-atiu: The inner circle of ghostly priests who watched over Osiris 
in the Underworld city ofAmenti. These holy spirits taught the god’s ancient 
commandments and interpreted his words on the rare occasions he spoke. 
Shemsu-heru: The Followers of Horus. Egyptian mummies, and their 
mortal adherents, who follow the leadership of Horus and abide by his code. 
Shroud, the: Barrier separating the Lands of the Living from the Lands 
of the Dead. 
Spell of Life, the: The magical formula that creates mummies and gives 
them eternal life. Also known as the Great Rite, the Spell (or Ritual) of 
Rebirth, or the Spell (or Ritual) of Resurrection. Egyptian mummies believe 
that Osiris has slowly perfected the Spell of Life over the millennia. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


tern-akh: ”Completing spirit.” The spirit fragments of souls caught in the 
destruction of Amenti, rescued from the Dja-akh by Osiris and sent to join 
with willing mortals to create mummies. 
Third Life: A mummy’s eternal life, beginning after the joining of a tem- 
akh and a recently deceased mortal by the Spell of Resurrection. 
Thoth: Egyptian god ofknowledge and learning. Believed to have taught 
magic to Isis. 
true name: See ren. 
Typhon: The creature who tempted Osiris. Depending on who you ask, 
it was an ifrit, demon or vampire. Typhon figures in Setite mythology as well, 
though it is sometimes portrayed as a lesser creature or a predecessor whom 
Set usurped. 
Udja-sen: ”Judged One.” The term for mummies who lost a portion of 
their soul in judgment by the Judges of Ma’at. 
Undying, the: Another name for mummies. 
Vessel: An object capable of storing Sekhem. Hekau practitioners often 
use Vessels to empower their magic. 
vizier: The trusted mummies who serve as advisors to Horus and 
overseers of regions of Shemsu-heru activity. 
Web of Faith: A network of holy sites and mystical energy found 
throughout the Middle East and its boundaries. The Web of Faith sustains the 
spirits of Osiris and the Amenti. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This chapter describes the Amenti, the results of the joining of Egyptian tem-akh 
and modem souls. When a modem soul fuses with an Egyptian one, it becomes one 
of the agents of Balance, effectively immortal and enjoying powers and strengths it 
never knew in life. It also suffers from weaknesses and liabilities unique to its fused 
nature. 
Mummies do not organize themselves according to their tem-akh, nor do they 
usually classify others by the same. The tem-akh is only one part of a whole, and each 
tem-akh creates a different person when it joins with another soul. The Amenti learn 
quickly that such generalizations are foolish, not to mention dangerous. While some 
mannerisms may strike them as being typically of one tem-akh or another (“Scroll- 
bearers do nothing without a briefing”, “She is Sefekhi- they thirst for blood one way 
or another”), the tem-akh is secondary to Amenti identity. 
What follows is acloser look at each Amenti and the aspects of the new souls now 
walking the night: 
Title - 
The name of that type of Amenti. 
Overview - 
A general description of the tem-akh’s role, followed by what it 
looks for in mortal hosts, and how the new-joined soul lives following Rebirth. 
The Hajj - 
The mortal frame, suffused with borrowed life from the tem-akh, 
makes a journey back to the Lands of Faith to undergo the new Spell of Life. During 
this time, the tem-akh’s particular weaknesses and strengths become manifest to the 
new host. 
The Third Life - The new mummy approaches her life in the World of 
Darkness in a variety of ways, detailed here. 
Affilations - 
Any social groups or structures the Amenti might be drawn to. 
Character Creation - 
Suggested areas of focus for your character (based on the 
Primary Hekau -The path of Egyptian magic that the Amenti specializes in, 
Purpose - 
This describes an Amenti’s main spiritual strength in her quest to 
Liability - 
The contrasting weakness of the tem-akh, corresponding to her 
tem-akh and the mortal host) are here. 
based on the tem-akh’s strengths. 
restore Ma’at, along with the necessary game system. 
purpose. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


TOMB WATCHERS 
According to Egyptian belief, the ka remains near the khat, the 
physical corpse. It lurks in the Underworld as anear-mindless drone 
dedicated to the preservation of the body. Ghosts who didn’t know 
Egyptian cosmology, but did know the practical reality of vengeful 
guardians, dubbed ka spirits “Tomb Watchers,” and when the first 
Amenti searched for names for themselves, the label suited them. 
The ka did well guarding their respective khat from the 
nderworld’s myriad dangers, but not so well against physical 
threats. Thieves stole the khat’s treasures. Physicians and 
magicians ground up the khat itself to use its powder. 
esting places and bodies fell into decay. Only a handful 
of ka succeeded in their assigned duty. When the great 
storm blasted through the Underworld, the surviving 
ka retained their passionate love of life and devotion 
to the body’s sanctity. 
The ka chooses its host from among the ranks of 
those who did not love or care for their own lives. Some 
Kher-minu suffered from deformity and illness, others from 
self-destructive habits, still others from tragic accidents. The 
ka avoids the very famous, though many minor and struggling 
celebrities brought down prematurely appeal to searching 
ka. The ideal nehem-sen is attractive but without purpose 
and is doomed by its absence. 
Once reborn into the Third Life, the Kher-minu no 
longer suffers from the addictions and vices of the Second 
Life. He remembers how it was to be a junkie or anorexic, 
and speaks of those lost evils with fanatical passion, but his 
new soul offers no hook for such lapses. The Kher-minu 
aptitude for making protective amulets follows the drive to 
protect the body - 
first his own, and secondly those who 
will listen to his message of the body’s sanctity. 
Other Amenti often regard the Kher-minu as cowardly. 
In fact, most Kher-minu willingly plunge into tremendous 
danger and make great sacrifices on behalf of the body, both 
their own and others’. It lookscowardly because it’s defensive 
risk-taking - 
acting to forestall danger, or to remove it from 
a particular place, rather than striking to eliminate the 
The Hajj: The great march of cultures through time 
exposes many ka to a variety of languages, which 
makes the first pilgrimage easier. Many ka seek out 
their remains from the First and Second Lives to 
resolve unfinished business along the way. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Third Life: The Tomb Watcher’s highest priority 
The ka encourages him to learn how to protect himself: to study survival techniques, 
defensive martial arts and everything else that keeps a person safe in an uncertain 
world. The ka steers the Tomb Watcher away from dangerous vices like smoking and 
drinking, and even the perils of sloth (driving without a seatbelt and so on). But the 
Tomb Watcher’s life is not one of boring, fearful isolation. The ka takes care of the 
Tomb Watcher so that he can enjoy life more fully: to see beautiful sights, to eat 
delicious meals, to savor the beauty of the arts, to look handsome or beautiful - 
all 
the pleasures the world has to offer. 
Most Tomb Watchers take up occupations that let them focus on defending a 
particular place or person, such as mortician, cemetery caretaker or security guard. 
Some also seek personal celebrity or a connection to stardom, like bodyguard work. 
As the Tomb Watcher matures in his understanding of Ma’at, he becomes more 
concerned for the lives of others as well as himself. High-Balance Kher-minu feel 
compelled to become vegetarian, to consume products that generate no lasting waste, 
to become involved in conflict resolution, and the like. They recognize all life as 
equally precious. 
Affiliations: Horus’ cause attracts many Tomb Watchers. Kher-minu more 
devoted to protecting the dead often gravitate to the Eset-a, with Osiris’ resurrection 
as both the first and greatest mission and the symbol of their devotion to every body’s 
sanctity. 
Character Creation: Social or Physical Attributes are usually primary for Tomb 
Raiders. Most have Naturesconcernedwithneedand the drive for attention. Abilities 
often include Performance and artistry of various kinds. The ka brings with it an 
aptitude for languages and Abilitiesrelated to protecting abody inhostile circumstances, 
from ritual lore to survival skills. High Willpower is very common, since it took 
exceptional determination for the ka to survive while so many others perished. Allies 
and Fame are common Backgrounds. 
Primary Hekau: Amukts 
Purpose: The Defender, or the Shielding Self. The ka works to preserve the 
Kher-minu’s body from all harm, and can act in some ways on its own, independently 
of the body’s physical actions. It can even reach out to lightly manipulate those who 
would harm the Kher-minu. Each turn, the character gets one extra Physical Trait per 
Balance Trait to bid in defensive actions. These Traits are useful only in physical 
defense. 
Liability: The ka works very hard to protect the body, including self-inflicted 
harm. The character must win a Static Willpower Challenge to engage in any action 
the ka would regard as harmful. Drinking enough alcohol to get drunk and similar 
relatively minor abuses require winning against five Traits. Entering a fight, smoking 
and other overtly dangerous undertakings require winning against seven Traits. 
Fighting against a superior foe or otherwise immediately risking life and limb requires 
winning against nine Traits. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


KHRI-HAD1 
SCROLL-BEARERS: BkAREEG OF THE BOOK 
The ba spirit performs the duties of a righteous soul while in the Underworld to 
ensure its body’s eventual resurrection. The ba roams through the Underworld, 
participating in the necessary rites and continuing to learn. Egyptian art often portrays 
the ba with wings, and indeed, many baspirits do have wings. The presence or absence 
of wings doesn’t affect their swift movement among the dead, but the association with 
the falcon and hawk imagery used to portray Ra and Horus reminds artist and ba alike 
A weak ba lets the soul succumb to the influence of one 
of the other spirits, whether it’s the ka’s obsession with 
preservation (a futile task without the spiritual foundation 
for resurrection) or the khaibit’s mindless pursuit of 
vengeance and violence. Strong ba generally dwelled in the 
city of Amenti and staffed the city’s priesthood and army, 
hence the name Scroll-bearers. They carried the records that 
let the city function, scribing much on wars, treaties and 
explorations, the cryptic oracles of the prophets and even more 
ryptic messages straight from the gods. 
The Dja-akh storm took all that away, and many ba lost 
hope, letting the wind carry them into annihilation. It wasn’t 
always the strongest who survived, but those who most clearly 
remembered Osiris’ promises and sought out souls to save. The ba 
is the spiritual manifestation of the conscious mind, and the 
surviving tem-akh possess deep wells of wisdom, insight and 
leadership. They’re drawn to mortals who are weak-willed or 
weak-minded - 
dominated by instinct, habit, dogma, peers 
and authorities, whatever interferes with the individual mind’s 
careful thought. Petty criminals, abused children (or parents, 
or spouses), unthinking followers of state, church or corporate 
creed - 
they all need a stronger ba. 
The Hajj: The ba’s strength of intellect gives it great 
advantages on the pilgrimage. The price for this insight is 
speed: It takes time for the ba to make the best decisions, and 
therefore the hajj goes slowly. 
The Third Life: The ba joins with its new host 
knowing that the host has little experience in independent 
thought. The first duty, therefore, is to teach the Scroll- 
bearer sound habits of decision-making and to drive out 
bad habits formed because of thoughtlessness. This 
teaching is often not fun or comfortable for either part 
of the fused entity. What makes it tolerable is that the 
ba doesn’t just punish; it shows the host what she 
missed in the Second Life, opening up vast new vistas 
and ways to think about the world around her. The 
host learns how independence feels, and begins to 
of the powers whom the ba must properly serve. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


experience pleasures she chooses rather than ones someone else decreed she should 
find sufficient. As the host finds out what life is like, she’s driven to help others find 
it. Scroll-bearers naturally turn to careers like therapist, doctor, psychologist, astrologer 
and pastor to help others liberate their minds. 
The Scroll-bearer affinity for Alchemy draws directly on the ba’s insights into the 
workings of the world. It’s also a symbol of the ba’s great mission, to turn dead and 
baseless souls into the precious riches they can be. 
Affiliations: Scroll-bearers often engage directly with mortal institutions, seeking 
out places where they can help. There are minds everywhere in the world, and they 
all need help to achieve Ma’at. Hospitals, social-service agencies, churches and relief 
organizations all appeal to Scroll-bearers, as do service-oriented positions even in 
more generic enterprises, like government ministries and corporate offices. (A Scroll- 
bearer who can direct the corporate philanthropy of a Fortune-500 firm, for instance, 
can make a lot of difference in the world.) Of the factions among mummies, the Cult 
of Isis appeals to most Khri-habi, with its emphasis on healing. The Shemsu-heru also 
attracts Scroll-bearers who feel they should focus on a supernatural quest rather than 
the mundane good of their neighbors. 
Character Creation: Scroll-bearers can come from any social stratum, since 
every class from very rich to very poor contains some pressures against independent 
thought, moral resolve and creative vision. Once the union of souls is complete, 
Mental or Social Attributes are primary in new Scroll-bearers (and this is usually a 
strange feeling for the mummy until she becomes used to her new capabilities). 
Intellectual Abilities of all kinds are very common, since Scroll-bearers learn rapidly, 
and Backgrounds dealing with access to information are very common. The Nature 
reflects the Second Life and its deficiencies, providing the inner challenge that drew 
the ba in the first place. 
Primary Hekau: Alchemy 
Purpose: The Bird, or Spirit Self. The ba travels between the Underworld and 
the living world, harvesting energy for the body to use in healing. It is the mother bird 
caring for her fledging offspring who cannot care for themselves. Each sunrise, the 
character gets one healing Trait per Balance Trait. Each of these healing Traits cures 
one level of lethal damage or two levels of bashing damage, either in the Khri-habi or 
in someone else she touches. 
Liability: The recently deceased part of the Khri-habi was deficient in self- 
identity, ethics or strength of personality. When circumstances require a judgment on 
matters of morals and identity, the Khri-habi must sort through the vast legacy of the 
ba in search of advice and information. This takes time and leaves the character 
noticeably distracted at crucial moments. The character suffers a two-Trait penalty to 
Perception- and Wits-related challenges, and is two Traits down in the first round of 
combat. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


M E S E E T  
VESSELS OF RA: NIGHT SUNS 
The sahu is the part of the soul that, in Egyptian belief, ascends to heaven and 
eternity - 
it’s the part that most resembles what people of Christian cultures would 
consider the “soul.” The Corruptor’s power extended even to this innermost spirit, 
since corruption in the other layers of the soul could delay the sahu’s ascent to the 
Fields of A‘aru for eternal reward or even force the sahu into servitude. But most of the 
time, the sahu went to its glorious reward. 
The storm in the Underworld struck 
A’aru as well as everywhere else, and it pulled 
the sahu back into realms closer to the living, 
reminding them that they had obligations to the 
living. Many sahu failed to cope with the shock 
and then perished. Others despaired of reunion 
with their counterparts and the state of the 
world, and succumbed to Apophis’ 
blandishments. The loss of other soul parts 
inflicted deep wounds ineverv sahu, no matter 
1 I 
how they responded. 
The survivors looked at the world and found it 
unrecognizable. Even the land had changed - 
ile’s flow constrained by dams and the boundaries 
2 deserts changed- and the people were altogether 
:rent. Ma’at was gone. The sahu realized that the 
living world needed them, that bliss would have to 
wait.. . possibly for a very long time. 
The sahu are drawn to mortals whose lives 
were built on deception, superficiality, folly and 
short-sightedness. These are the souls going 
nowhere, especially not to the Fields of A’aru. A 
sahu fuses with such a soul to bring it integrity and 
honesty, and the desire to live truthfully and to match 
words with deeds. 
The ritual of rebirth leaves the sahu’s association 
with Ra’s power intact. Daytime is the VesselofRa’s time 
of strength and power, while darkness is the time of 
weakness and isolation. Some mummies believe that the 
sahu itself withdraws-to support Ra in his nightly battle 
against Apophis in the realm ofnight beyond the world. 
Certainly the mummy has reduced reserves. 
Although the Vessel of Ra’s power is reduced at 
night, his vision remains unclouded. He can see fate 
in the stars as few others can. and his aptitude for 
Celestial Hekau flows from this informed 
L-k 
perception. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Hajj: The pilgrimage takes longer for Vessels of Ra than for other tem-akh 
because they cannot travel during the nighttime hours and instead must slumber. 
They even lose some daytime hours as sunset approaches because they must search for 
a hiding place. 
The Third Life: Atonement dominates the start of a Vessel of Ra’s Third Life. 
As a mortal in the Second Life, he exploited others one way or another, and the sahu’s 
memories of Paradise expose this exploitation for the ghastly evil it is. The Vessel of 
Ra applies his old talents -and 
the new power from the sahu- to remedy the wrongs 
he has committed. Of all the Amenti, the Vessel is mostly likely to attempt to engage 
very closely and persistently with the legacy of his old life. 
As this initial mission begins to succeed, the mummy has time to think about 
wider consequences. Celestial magic and other Hekau show him the unseen world, and 
his native abilities let him analyze what’s at hand with preternatural wisdom. He seeks 
ways to help others avoid the sort of wrongs he committed and repair those already 
done, but must balance his drive with the understanding that every soul must make 
its own decisions, since coercion is precisely one of the sins that makes Vessels of Ra 
in the first place. There must always be room for failure, or success means nothing in 
the great scheme of things. 
Affiliations: Vessels of Ra are usually drawn to places where people pursue justice 
and where the flow of information helps to change the world: courts, stock exchanges, 
universities and embassies, etc. The Vessels divide their sympathies more or less 
evenly among the mummy organizations, since all the factions’ causes contain an 
element of the pursuit of justice. 
Character Creation: The demands of alife of manipulation and abuse strengthen 
Social Attributes, and so remain primary for most Vessels of Ra. Physical Attributes 
are usually tertiary, since the manipulator was more likely to hire muscle than to 
provide it himself. Abilities relating to deception are common, as are Occult, 
Cosmology, Meditation and other tools of spiritual insight after rebirth. Corrupt 
officials, great and small, make excellent candidates for Vessels of Ra, but the 
temperament can manifest anywhere in modern society. 
, 
Primary Hekau: Celestial 
Purpose: The Eternal, or Perfect Self. The sahu draws the Mesektet into 
constant searching for the will of the gods and the shape of the future, creating a 
hunger for oracles and providing the power both to receive and to understand them. 
The character can draw on his intuitive sense of fate and possibilities to rework the 
present: Each day he can retest any one challenge just completed per Balance Trait. 
The results of the retest apply whether or not they improve on the original results. 
Liability: The sahu is very closely tied to Ra’s cycle, and when the sun sets, the 
sahu falls into a kind of eclipse until the next sunrise. The Mesektet, left to his own 
devices, suffers confusion and exhaustion in the sahu’s absence. Many spend the whole 
night in comalike slumber. The character suffers a two-Trait penalty on all challenges 
between sunset and sunrise. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SAKHMU 
SPIRIT SCEPTERS 
The khu spirit connects an individual’s physical and spiritual forms, turning a body 
and a set of disparate souls into a single entity. When a person dies, the khu wraps its 
protective caul around the soul and carries it to safety beyond the Shroud, all the while 
preserving a link with the khat. Funerary rites assist the khu in this transaction and help 
the soul remove itself from the caul at the appropriate time. The soul goes on - 
the ba 
on its errands, the sahu to the Fields of A’aru - 
and the khu lingers on the edges of the 
spiritual world, providing a beacon for the other portions of the individual’s soul. The 
figurines of servants, tools and weapons placed in Egyptian tombs provided the khu with 
resources for its mission, or so the priests and sorcerers hoped. 
Tomb-raiding made it more difficult. Mummies dragged from tombs to magicians’ 
workshops, museums and other distant locations brought their khu with them. Cut off 
from most of their resources for support, the khu had to struggle (usually alone) to do 
their duty in unfamiliar lands and times. Ambitious khu hoped that they could draw on 
the energy of young civilizations interested in the Egyptian legacy to rebuild all that had 
beenlost, until the Dja-akhstruck. Weakkhushattered inan instant, leaving only those 
bright enough to find refuge within their respective bodies or protective effigies. 
In Egyptian ritual, the sakhmu was a wooden weapon, between a sword and a mace, 
representing the bond between temporal and divine duties. In the new tempestuous 
reality, some khu took the name and called themselves the Spirit Scepters. They were 
instruments of justice and symbols of the greater whole, drawn to mortals who were dull, 
selfish, plodding or self-centered in life-people whose minds did not radiate the strength 
of thought and wisdom which is characteristic of the khu. In particular, people who 
struggled to achieve something lasting but lacked the ability or understanding to do it 
successfully call out to the khu, which enters and shows the mortal what she needs to know 
to grasp her ambition’s place in the infinitely complex web of spiritual and physical ties. 
The khu relied on effigies made by others long ago, and retain their interest in such 
creations. Efigj lets them apply their insights most effectively. 
The Hajj: The khu has experience inhabiting prepared vessels and usually makes 
the hajj with little complication, apart from the innate limitations imposed by 
unfamiliar languages and cultures. 
The Third Life: The new Spirit Scepter begins her Third Life with inspiration. She 
sees how to do what she’s tried and failed at, and much more. Everything around her makes 
sense in a way it never did before, as a thing in itself and as part of ever-greater systems. She 
derives great pleasure from creating and from understanding others’ creations. 
As she matures, she comes to appreciate fully how every single thing fits into the 
universal design of Ma’at. Evil and discord become more acutely painful to her, since she 
knows how their harm resonates throughout the world, and purely self-indulgent 
expression becomes a waste of time. Her art and life take on an ever-sharper edge, thanks 
to her drive to share her insights with others - 
in whatever social class she moves, she 
wants those she encounters to realize how much beauty they can have and how great 
the stakes of its loss are. She does not stop being herself, but she is increasingly aware 
of being a gateway between the worlds- a messenger carrying the spirit world’s eternal 
truths to an unsuspecting mortal audience. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


 . 
e
-
*
.
.
 
. 
Affiliations: Spirit Scepters have widely varying talents, and ea 
someplace in mortal society where his particular abilities matter. Poets and professors 
don’t always gather at the same place, nor do dancers and sculptors, let alone those 
Scepters who bring spiritual beauty to activities like medicine and programming. There’s 
no “Club of Scepters” or universal style - 
just the shared ambition to each do their best. 
TheCult ofIsisand the Shemsu-herubothattract Spirit Scepters, 
and the Ashukhi Corporation recruits them aggressively, 
particularly those with technical skills and mastery of Efigy. 1 
wasted opportunity that draws the khu can occur in almost 1 
anyone. Depending on the nature of the character’s 
ambitions, any of the three categories of Attribute can be 
primary. The Spirit Scepter’s Nature usually deals in 
some way with the drive to create and understand. 
Creative Abilities of many kinds are common, 
indeed a Scepter who cannot create effective1 
doomed tomore thanenough frustration to ens 
that he will learn how to make something well, 
and soon. 
Character Creation: The quality of frustration or of 
A 
Primary Hekau: Efig~ 
Purpose: The Shining Self. The khu 
shines just beneath the physical surface of the 
Amenti, both illuminating the souls nearby 
and drawing out insights from the spirit within 
material things for the mummy’s benefit. The 
character may substitute her Balance rating for 
her Ability level in any artistic challenge, once per 
Balance Trait each day. This extends beyond the obvious 
cases like Expression, Performance and Crafts to include 
Computers, Finance and other skills where there’s an 
aesthetic element, such as a particularly elegant hack. 
Physical Challenges can also have this element of 
distinctive beauty and qualify for the purpose’s benefit, 
but the Storyteller’s authority is final when it comes to 
the benefit’s suitability for use in combat. The khu may 
even withdraw and remove this benefit for hours or days 
in response to attempts to exploit it in abusive ways (at 
the Storyteller’s discretion). 
Liability: The strong khu is hard to hide; there’s a 
distmctive, ifnot subconxious, sense ofselfthat is associated 
with the character. The character suffers a two-Trait 
penalty on all challenges to remain anonymous or avoid 
detection. Those searching for her receive a two-Trait 
bonus in Perception-related challenges. In cases where 
someone selects a random target from a group or picks 
someone in a line-up, the Spirit Scepter usually becomes the 
one; the Storyteller may decide when this complication 
applies. Because of this Liability, Sakhmu may not take the 
Background Arcane. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SEFEKHI 
THE UNBANDAGED ONES 
rcslLr 
The khaibit is the aggressive, forceful parr of the soul, 
containing the wellsprings of rage, lust and the desire for 
dominance and success. It usually remains attached in the 
Underworld to the ka or ba, who temper it in an exchange 
of passion for prudence. Without akhaibit, the rest of the 
soul falls into apathy and loses the will to survive; the 
khaibitprovides the drive to persist in the face ofchallenges. 
The khaibit is therefore both necessary and dangerous - 
- -ovemed, it drags the soul into madness and destruction. 
Detached khaibit served the city of Amenti as warriors 
I assassins, employing their violent urges in the sewice of 
: community’s need. They survived the Dja-akh better 
an most, accustomed as they were to coping with 
nleashed destruction, and they went rampaging 
ndependently through the Underworld. Osiris’ call gave 
them fresh direction. They sought out souls that lacked 
the fire of self-determination and courage, and set about 
strengthening them. For mortals who’ve been fearful, 
unassertive and meek, the experience is often 
overwhelming, and the khaibit usually exerts more 
influence over the Amenti than other Egyptian 
The ritual of rebirth goes differently and 
harder for khaibit than for other souls. The semi- 
sentient khaibit on hajj is a berserk monster, and the 
Xldren of Osiris (or members of one of the other sects) 
end out bands of armed warriors to subdue it. It comes in 
:hains or other restraints to the temple for the Great 
Rite. Priests bind it in enchanted bandages and inscribe 
symbols into the body’s flesh that allow the excess 
darkness to drain out, leaving a soul with passion but 
tempered by conscience. These scars generally coincide 
with the locations of Osiris’ wounds, leaving the new 
Sefekhi marked at the neck, spine, eye sockets and 
scalp. Many of these mummies choose toremain shaven 
) as to display their scars prominently, a mark of their 
dition. (Popular rumor among the mummies says that 
re are catacombs full of still-bandaged khaibit that have 
It yet regained Balance, and which may never do so.) The 
iestly cuts also castrate the Sefekhi, in echo of Osiris’ 
mital injuries. Experience shows that this tempers another 
)art of the khaibit’s passion. 
Only when the draining is complete and the soul is 
insome approximation of Balance do the bandages come 
souls do over theirs. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


off.’The newly Unbandaged One now enters the ranks of the Ame 
native darkness and experience with death give it a flair for Necromancy. 
The Hajj: The khaibit cuts a bloody swath on its way to the Lands ofFaith, giving 
full expression to its rage in every way that the host body allows. Its passage is often 
the inspiration for terrified folklore and urban legends. A number of Amenti enemies 
can exploit the khaibit’s lack of concern for consequences, following the wake of 
carnage to where new mummies gather. This helpfulness for enemies does not endear 
the Sefekhi to other mummies. 
The Third Life: The Unbandaged One’s Third Life generally begins with 
violence. The khaibit is never in submission the way other souls can be, and breaks 
through erratically and unexpectedly. The loss of sexual organs removes some sources 
ofprovocation, but there are always other excusesfor destructive rage. TheUnbandaged 
One must learn how to channel this violence toward overall constructive ends, to 
serve as a warrior rather than a random killing machine. 
As she progresses toward Ma’at, she comes to realize the part she plays in the 
scheme of things, and how terribly important it is for her to avoid the traps of passivity 
and timidity. She must do what others cannot or will not, so that the world as a whole 
can survive and flourish. She becomes clever, attending to strategy as well as tactics. 
Affiliations: Very few Unbandaged Ones enjoy lasting connections to mortal 
institutions. Their eeriness, unpredictability and independence make them difficult 
allies at best; they breed dissent and conflict. Cloistered religious and philosophical 
movements provide some Unbandaged Ones with time for healing and meditation, 
and extremist societies bent on improvement at any cost give outlet to the khaibit’s 
desires. Within mummy society, almost all Unbandaged Ones affiliate either with the 
Children of Osiris or with the Eset-a. Few Sefekhi mention it, but in addition to seeing 
themselves as manifestations of Osiris on Earth, they dream that healing the god will 
lead to healing for themselves as well. 
Character Creation: The mortal side of the Unbandaged One was docile in life, 
and generally has a Nature to match. After rebirth, Physical Attributes are usually 
primary, with Social Attributes being tertiary. In some cases, particularly when the 
mortal side was repressed rather than just lax, Mental Attributes may be primary. 
Knowledge-related Abilities of all kinds are common, as the khaibit brings millennia 
of insights into the world’s problems along with the desire to confront those problems 
and destroy them utterly. High Willpower is almost mandatory for the soul to avoid 
constant khaibit-driven frenzy. 
Primary Hekau: Necromancy 
Purpose: The Shadow, or Instinctive Self. The khaibit gives the mummy the 
power to persist in the face of physical adversity. The character may retest one 
Stamina-related Challenge or resistance effort per Balance Trait each day, from 
midnight to midnight. The new result applies whether or not it improves on the 
original result. 
Liability: The khaibit’s constant craving for violence colors the mummy’s 
behavior, even when the character would prefer to give some other impression. The 
character suffers a two-Trait penalty on all Social Challenges except those involving 
intimidation and coercion. This does not apply to other mummies, non-mummies 
who understand the situation (like the priests of Osiris), other supernatural beings 
who themselves create panic-inciting effects (such as the Delirium), and very 
deranged individuals, at Storyteller’s discretion. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


UDJA-SEN 
JUDGED ONES 
Sometimes it doesn’t work out quite right. Anubis leads the soul joined with its 
tem-akh by the Rite of Rebirth before the Judges of Ma’at. When the result is clearly 
insufficient to take up the burdens that Osiris intends, new and old soul alike are cast 
away to become fodder for the beast Amemait. Worthy unions return to the deceased 
body to become one of the Amenti. In between the clear-cut cases, ambiguity reigns. 
The tem-akh may replace the most damaged or least developed part of a soul 
while leaving another part still crucially weak. Indeed, the stress of the union may 
create fresh spiritual problems. In cases where the Judges see potential for the result, 
they excise part of the united soul for discarding while allowing the rest to return to 
its body. The tem-akh is stretched to cover the holes and loses most of its memories, 
and the modem soul likewise bends and breaks. The product can return to life and 
serve the great cause, but it carries inner wounds as constant reminders of being not 
quite worthy. Other mummies and their admirers among the resurrection cults call 
these damaged mummies “the Udja-sen,” or Judged Ones. 
Most Judged Ones hate their condition and regard it as unfair. A few aim to prove 
themselves worthy of healing in the hopes that mastery of Balance may mend their 
wounds. Others turn their back on the struggle for Ma’at and try to make their own 
way in the world. They lack the inner guiding voice other mummies enjoy, since their 
tem-akh were pushed and broken to allow for survival at all. Judged Ones carry no 
automatic awareness of Osiris’ righteousness or the necessity for Ma’at, and must 
instead rely on their own conscience and judgment. They seek a hypothetical 
redemption without external guideline, or even the assurance that it actually exists. 
The Hajj: A Judged One begins with one of the other five tem-akh types and 
makes the journey to the Lands of Faith as usual. The damage done in reconstruction 
usually removes all memories of the trip. 
The Third Life: A Judged One’s existence begins with pain and immediately 
passes on to condemnation. He knows with his first clear thought that there’s 
something wrong with him. He cannot remember much of either his First Life or his 
Second Life, and lacks the guiding spiritual force other mummies feel. Alienation 
usually follows quickly, and Apophis’ minions prey on Judged Ones’ doubts and 
angers. A successful Judged One must find some way to cope with the permanent 
wounds he carries and some purpose to guide his actions into an uncertain future. 
The Judged One does have some unique advantages, and in time the blessings 
implicit in them may become clear. His freedom to go where he wants without loss of 
power lets him extend the quest for Ma’at to places other mummies cannot safely go, 
and he can choose the terms on which he deals with other mummies. He is free, not 
merely cast out. 
Affiliations: Every Judged One is distinctive, though they do share the fact that 
more than one part of their soul was out ofbalance. Some Udja-sen are drawn to groups 
advocating individual freedom and responsibility, but that’s just one intellectual 
current among many for the Judged Ones. Some seek redemption through piety and 
holiness, while others seek revenge on those responsible for their deficiencies. Almost 
every imaginable way of dealing with mortal society turns up somewhere among the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ranks of the Judged Ones. Storytellers and players can choose options that suit their 
particular chronicles without worrying about whether most concepts are innately 
inappropriate for the Judged Ones. 
Of the major organizations dealing with mummies, only the 
Cult of Isis extends more than the frostiest welcome. 
Character Creation: Mental Attributes are primary 
among most Judged Ones who last; those who lack a high 
degree of intelligence and wits don’t survive. Physical 
stamina is also very common among the Judged Ones. Social 
Attributes generally suffer. The character’s weakest part, the 
one the tem-akh tried to heal, can be any of the categories 
described on p.65. 
i 
Primary Hekau: Any 
Purpose: The Udja-sen is less bound to the Web of 
Faith than other mummies. Each day, the character regains 1 
one Sekhem Trait per Balance Trait, regardless of where he 
is, rather than the usual one per day outside the Web of 
Faith. In addition, once per day he may transfer Sekhem 
Traits to another mummy, up to a limit ofone Sekhem per 
Balance Trait. 
Liability: The flaws in the character’s resurrection 
make all use of Sekhem - 
including the transfer power 
described above - - terribly 
- 
painful. Eac :h Se ikhe 
Trait the character spends inflicts one level of bashing 
damage as it leaves him, whether it came from his own 
reserves or from an outside source, like an amulet. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


QUICK CHARACTER-CREATION PROCESS 
Stage One: The Second Life 
Step One: Inspiration - 
Who are you? 
- 
Choose a concept 
- 
Choose an Amenti 
- 
Choose a Nature and a Demeanor 
- 
Choose an Inheritance 
Step Two: Attributes - 
What are your basic capabilities? 
- 
Prioritize Attributes (six primary, four secondary and three tertiary) 
- 
Choose Traits 
Step Three: Advantages -What do you know? 
- 
Choose five Abilities 
Step Four: Backgrounds - 
What are your mortal ties? 
- 
Choose three Backgrounds 
Step Five: Details - 
Smooth out the rough edges 
- 
Spend five Free Traits 
Stage Two: The Rebirth 
Step One: The Second Death - 
How did you die a second time, and 
how were you reborn? 
- 
Choose a reason for your death and rebirth 
Step Two: Attributes - 
Compensating for where you are lacking 
- 
Add two additional Traits to Attributes 
Step Three: Abilities - 
Further compensation 
- 
Add five additional Ability Traits, which can raise your current total 
above three Traits. 
Step Four: Advantages -What have you gained in your Third Life? 
- 
Choose your Hekau and add three Traits. One Trait must go into your 
Amenti's primary Hekau path. 
- 
Allocate two additional Traits in Backgrounds. 
Step Five: Finishing Touches - 
Complete the new you. 
- 
Assign Balance (1) 
-Assign Willpower ( 5 )  
U 
- 
Assign Sekhem ( 1 ) 
- 
Choose Negative Traits and Flaws (if any) 
- 
Spend five additional Free Traits and choose Merits (if any) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


r;-,’-Gp.--a. 
- -  
Academics, Animal Ken, Athletics, Auurmc.ss, Brawl, Computer, 
. Cosmolom, Crafts, Divinution, Dodge, Drive, Empathy, Enigtnm, 
Etiquette, Expession, Finunce, Fireuwm, Hobb?r/l’rofes~iondl/E.ul,ert 
t 
Ability, Intimidation, Investigation, LUW, Leudership, Linguistics, 
6 
Medicine, Meditation, Meke, Occdt , Performance, I’olitics, Poisons, 
, 
Repair, Riding, Science, Scrounge, Security , Stealth, Srreetuiise, 
/ Subterfuge, Survival, Thanatology, Traps 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ARCHETYPES 
Archetypes are an integral part of shaping the personality of your character, 
creating the foundation for the motivations and drives inspiring your 
development. An archetypal Nature illustrates the inherent tendencies in a 
personality, while archetypal Demeanor is the character’s outward behavior to 
the world. 
During gameplay, a character’s Nature serves as behavioral motives that 
are not easily swayed by intimidation or other means, which signifies that you 
can call for a retest if commanded or bullied into violating your Nature. It is 
essential to keep your character’s Nature a secret because it can, should anyone 
discover it, be used against you in the same fashion as a Negative Trait might 
be, compelling you into a challenge. 
Example: Michael, a Sefekhi, has been asked by an executive ofAshukhi to take 
onanunusualassignment. The taskiseasy-tooeasy-andMichaelrefuses, 
saying 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


let youwriggleout ofthis. There’sareasonfor hawing youon thismission.” He pauses 
and adds, “Well, if you really feel that way, 1’11 just send A&. You’re not the 
Competitor I thought you were.” The two go to a challenge, and because the 
executive guessed Michael’s Nature, Michael must venture two Traits. They test, 
and Michael loses. Grumbling, but with his dander up (Not a Competitor?! Ha!), 
Michael heads out to start packing. 
Natures can change over time, and many Amenti’s tem-akh seek just such 
a change. The Nature of the Second Life can feel very comfortable to slip into, 
but the tern-akh attempts to goad the character into something greater. This 
effort should be roleplayed out, with the Storyteller deciding when your 
Amenti has finally achieved the new Nature. It costs nothing to change 
Natures. 
Architect - 
You seek to build something of lasting value, to leave a 
legacy that can be passed down for generations to come. You dream of the day 
when the youth of the future study your legacy in their textbooks or walk 
through a park dedicated to your memory. 
Avant-Garde - 
If it’s not original or cutting-edge, it’s not you. You 
don’t like to surround yourself with the past, preferring to be focused on what’s 
ahead. 
Bravo - 
It’s all about respect and if you aren’t getting the proper 
amount, you aren’t above bullying whomever you must to get it. 
Bureaucrat -The 
laws of the land are written for the protection of all, 
and it is your duty to act as a model citizen. Without the laws there is only chaos, 
and that is unacceptable. 
Caregiver - 
You have a soft spot in your heart for anyone weaker than 
you, and you feel the need to protect the innocent and downtrodden. 
Child - 
Though you exude an air of innocence and naivete, and 
whining gets you everything you’ve ever needed. People are drawn to your 
apparent innocence and try to shelter you from danger. 
Competitor - 
You must finish first and be the best of the best. Doing 
your best is no substitute for the greater glory of winning every time. You won’t 
cheat to beat your opponents, but you also aren’t above taking advantage of an 
“edge” when it presents itself. 
Confidant-You 
empathize withothers and seek to gain their trust. You 
have broad shoulders to cry on and the knack for sensing when someone needs 
a hug. 
Conformist - 
You need to have someone focus your attentions and 
actions, to inspire you and lead you. All you desire is a path to walk and the 
boundaries to keep you on track. 
Conniver - 
W h y  do it yourself when you can get someone else to do 
it for you? If people want to promise you something they shouldn’t expect 
anything in return. 
Critic - 
You have a knack for revealing the weaknesses and faults of 
others. No matter how wonderful something may seem to be, you can find 
something wrong with it and you’re not above telling the world about it. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


offer, but you do know that even the greatest things never last forever. 
Deviant - 
For one reason or another you don’t conform to society’s 
views of status quo and you couldn’t care less. 
Director - 
If it’s not your way it’s the highway. And all ways are your 
ways. You bring order from chaos, but some of the best dictators were Directors 
at heart. 
Explorer-You have an insatiable curiosity and are driven to learn more 
about what’s around you. You need not be a globetrotter; there are plenty of 
vistas besides mountains and lakes. 
Fanatic- Your cause in life is an all-consuming obsession. Anyone who 
does not share your sentiments is against you. They must be adjusted accordingly, 
for the cause. 
Gallant -You live for the dramatic and always ingratiate yourself to an 
audience, thriving off their support as they cheer your boisterous disposition. 
Hedonist -The end is inevitable, so you enjoy life to its fullest while 
you still can, whether to find some new pleasure your jaded palate hasn’t 
experienced, or to temporarily fill a spiritual void within yourself. 
Jester - 
You find humor in all things and at anyone’s expense, whether 
they get the joke or not. Not every Jester is a wacky, happy funster. Some Jesters 
have a sense of humor that can be quite caustic and dark. 
Judge -You 
seek truth and justice in the world around you, sorting out 
right from wrong amidst the chaos. However, your ideas of truth and justice 
may have nothing to do with the laws on the books. 
Loner -You 
prefer solitude over companionship and tend to stay away 
from large groups. You don’t need anyone; you can take care of yourself. 
Martyr - 
You expend 100% effort of your blood, sweat and tears, and 
expect nothing in return. You’re not in it for the gratitude, just to fight the good 
fight, even if it means your death. 
Penitent - 
Nothing you can do will make up for your sins, real or 
imagined. You feel a sense of worthlessness since you believe that others suffer, 
at least in part, because of your actions or lack thereof. 
Predator - 
You are a Darwinist at heart, as the epitome of survival of 
the fittest. You follow your instincts, and believe it is your job to separate the 
weak from the strong. 
Rebel-Youconstantlysearchforareason 
to fight thesystem. Youhave 
no idea what you’ll do if you ever win; all you know is that things cannot remain 
as they are. 
Showoff - 
You do whatever it takes to impress the people around you, 
even if you make a fool of yourself in the process. You are the boldest, rashest 
and sometimes the most asinine, but the attention makes you feel good. 
Survivor - 
You will survive no matter what the cost, no matter the 
danger or risk to life and limb. Your first priority is yourself, and you’re not above 
sacrificing things or people if it means your survival. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Traditionalist - 
If it was good enough for your ancestors thousands of 
years ago, then it’s good enough for you, too. There is safety in the old ways and 
risk in too much change. 
Visionary - 
Beyond the daily grind of life there is an unimaginable 
destiny that you believe to exist. Perhaps you foresee peace among the 
humanity, or another far-off fortune that spurs you to discover it. 
THE EM-AKH OF THE AMENT1 
Below are brief descriptions of the six types of Amenti that you may choose 
from. A more full desdription of these may be found in Chapter Two. 
Kher-minu (Tomb Watchers) - 
The name given to mummies with 
strong kaspirits - the portion of the soul that remains in the vicinity of the tomb 
to guard the body. 
Primary Hekau: Amulets 
Purpose: One extraTrait per Balance Trait to use each turn the character 
is attacked, to be used only for defensive actions. 
Liability: The character must win a Static Willpower Test to engage in 
actions that threaten his physical form - 
five Traits for mild risks like drinking 
alcohol, seven Traits for moderate risks like dangerous driving, nine Traits for 
combat against a superior enemy. 
Khri-habi (Scroll-bearers) - 
The title for mummies who have strong 
ba spirits, the portion of the soul that journeys deep into the Underworld. 
Primary Hekau: Alchemy 
Purpose: The character can heal herself and others. Make a Static 
Balance Challenge against six Traits. If successful, the character can heal one 
level of lethaldamage or two levelsof bashing damage. Eachday -fromsunrise 
to sunrise - 
the character can heal up to her Balance rating in lethal levels, 
or twice her rating in bashing levels. 
Liability: The character suffers a two-Trait penalty to all Perception -and 
Wits-related Mental Challenges. 
Mesektet (Night Suns) -The mummies with strong sahu spirits, the 
spiritual body, an everlasting and eternal soul. 
Primary Hekau: Celestial 
Purpose: The character may retest one challenge per Balance Trait each 
day (sunrise to sunrise). The retest result applies whether it was better or worse 
than the original outcome. 
Liability: The character suffers a two-Trait penalty to all challenges 
during the night. 
Sakhmu (Spirit Scepters) -These mummies have strong khu spirits, 
a psychic covering that surrounds the mummy’s body and spirit. 
Primary Hekau: Effigy 
Purpose: The character may substitute her Balance rating for her Ability 
level in any artistic challenge, including Expression, Performance, Crafts and 
evencomputer, as long as it is aesthetically pleasing, insightful and illuminating 
work. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


suffers a two-Trait penalty on efforts to go unnoticed, disguise himself, be 
stealthy or otherwise not be seen. 
Sefekhi (Unbandaged Ones) -The term for mummies with powerful 
khaibits, the shadow portion of the soul responsible for drive, desire and 
aggression, closely related to the ka. 
Primary Hekau: Necromancy 
Purpose: The character can retest one Stamina-related challenge per 
Liability: The character suffers a two-Trait penalty to all Social Challenges 
Udja-sen (Judged Ones) -The term for mummies who lost a portion 
Primary Hekau: Any 
Purpose: Whenever the character replenishes Sekhem, add one additional 
Sekhem per Balance Trait. Once per day, he may also transfer Sekhem Traits 
to another mummy, up to his Balance rating. 
Liability: The character suffers one level of bashing damage per Sekhem 
Trait spent, for whatever reason. This damage can be healed over time or with 
the aid of Hekau powers. 
Balance Trait each day. 
except those involving Intimidation. 
of their soul in judgment by the Judges of Ma’at. 
INHERITANCE 
This step has no direct game effect, but is still vitally important during 
character creation. Take a moment to think about who your Amenti was in her 
First Life. Was she a priestess, invested with divine wisdom? Was he an 
architect, helping to build the gleaming cities of the pharaohs? Perhaps she was 
a temple dancer, whose movements inspired those around her, or he may have 
been a humble scribe who listened and learned more than what he wrote down. 
Your Amenti can be from any walk of life -the Spell of Life only asks for those 
who can commit to the cause of Ma’at. The Inheritance can be helpful when 
you start thinking about your Amenti’s Third Life. Many Amenti receive new 
knowledge from the Joining, and the Inheritance can be a good indicator of 
what he or she knew in times past. 
AmBUTES (BIDDING TRAITS) 
The Traits that describe your character’s innate capabilities are called 
Attributes, which are used in the game to perform actions and overcome 
obstacles. While certain situations may also require Abilities, such matters are 
a function of training. Even with appropriate training, you must call on your 
own strengths to finish the tasks before you. 
When you enter a situation with a questionable outcome, you bid a Trait 
appropriate to the challenge. If you are trying to knock someone over, for 
instance, you might bid the Physical Trait Brawny as you use your strength. The 
nature of the challenge determines the Trait used - 
Physical, Social or 
Mental. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Remember, when you bid a Trait for a challenge, you risk that partidar 
Trait. If you fail the challenge, you may temporarily lose the use of the Trait, 
as you exhaust your resources and lose your confidence. Some situations may 
require the use of an additional Trait or more - 
anytime you are considered 
“bids down,” or have a circumstance that causes you to suffer a Trait penalty, 
you must risk additional Traits. Conversely, if you are listed as “Traits up” or 
“Traits down,” you modify your current number of Traits when comparing for 
overbids or ties. 
For the purposes of determining what Traits are appropriate to specific 
challenges, the Trait listings include a run-down of what sorts of Traits fit into 
what specialized categories. Of course, you can ignore these categories if you 
wish, in favor of speeding the game. Remember, unique situations may allow 
Traits to be used in unusual ways. 
New players may find it easier to bid a generic Trait from the appropriate 
pool instead of picking a specific one. Doing so allows them time to get the hang 
of the system. When they’re more comfortable with bidding, then start having 
them choose Traits. 
PHYSICAL TRAITS 
Strength-related: Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry 
Dexterity-related: Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimbk, Quick 
Stamina-related: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tireless 
Miscellaneous Physical: &k, Brutal, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigorous 
Agile: You are quite flexible and capable of deft movements such as 
Uses: Acrobatics. Athletics. Competitive events. Dodging. 
Brawny: Strong, bulky muscle-strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict 
Brutal: You are capable of acting bestial and ruthless. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. 
Dexterous: You possess a natural competency and skill with your hands or 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms). Pick-pocketing. 
Enduring: A persistent hardiness against physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this Trait is a good one to risk as a 
second or successive bid. 
Energetic: A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal drive propels you 
and, in physical situations, you can pull from a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and 
zeal. 
dodging, jumping, running and turning. 
damage. Power-lifting. All feats of strength. 
body. 
Punching. 
Uses: Combat. 
Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical 
determination. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. 
Graceful: Control and balance in the motion and use of the entire body. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you lose your balance. 
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging and dancing. 
Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile movements. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. 
Quick: Speedy, with a fast reaction time. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking. 
Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly 
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an 
Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions 
Rugged: Hardy, tough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and 
Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you enter while injured. 
Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition. 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against 
Steady: More than simply physically dependable-controlled, unfaltering 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations. 
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will. 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
Tireless: You have the stamina of a marathon runner. You are less taxed 
Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical 
Tough: An abrasive, aggressive attitude and a reluctance to submit. 
Uses: Whenever you’re wounded. 
Vigorous: Growing with a robust, vital strength. 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you’re on the defensive. 
Wiry: Corded, muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movements. 
from bodily harm. 
attack. 
that could take place over a period of time. 
pain to continue exertion. 
overwhelming odds or a superior foe. 
and balanced. You have firm mastery over your efforts. 
by physical efforts than ordinary people. 
Challenge with the same foe or foes. 
NEGATIVE PHYSICAL TRAITS 
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are prone 
to stumbling and dropping objects. 
Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving your own neck is all that is 
important. You might even flee when you have the upper hand, just out of 
habit. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


physical damage slowly, and you are 'unable to apply full muscular strength. 
Most efforts make you tire easily. 
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are damaged easily by physical 
harm. 
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits. You lack 
physical persistence, and you tend to submit rather than fighting long battles. 
Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your strength 
well against resistance. 
Lame: You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can be as 
obvious as a missing leg, or as subtle as a dysfunctional arm. 
Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or 
motivation. 
Puny: You are weak and inferior in strength. This Trait could refer to 
diminutive size. 
Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds to physical stress as if it were 
in the throes of a debilitating illness. 
SOCIAL =ITS 
Charisma-related: Charismatic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Expressive, 
Manipulation-related: Beguiling, Commanding, Ingratiating, Persuasive 
Appearance-related: Alluring, Ekgant, Gorgeous, Magnetic, Seductive 
Miscellaneous Social: Diplomatic, Empathetic, Intimidating, Friendly, Witty 
Alluring: An attractive and appealing presence that inspires desire in 
Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
Beguiling: The skill ofdeception and illusion. You can twist the perceptions 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. 
Charismatic: The talent of inspiration and motivation, the sign of a strong 
Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leadership. 
Charming: Your speech and actions make you attractive and appealing to 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This Trait 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. 
Dignified: Something about your posture and body carriage appears 
Uses: Defending against Social Challenges. 
Genial 
others. 
of others. 
leader. 
others. 
implies skill in the control and direction of others. 
honorable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are 
displeased with what you say or do. 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Elegant: Refined tastefulness. Even though you don’t need money to be 
Uses: High society parties. Defending against Social Challenges. 
Eloquent The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing manner. 
Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. 
Empathetic: Able to identify and understand the emotions and moods of 
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. 
Expressive: Able to articulate your thoughts in interesting, meaningful 
Uses: Producing art of any kind. Acting. Performing. Any social situation 
Friendly: Able to fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short 
Uses: Convincing others. 
Genial: Cordial, kindly, warm and pleasant. You are pleasing to be around. 
Uses: Mingling at parties. Generally used in a second or later Social 
Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body 
Uses: Modeling, seduction. 
Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor of people who know you. 
Uses: Dealing with elders in a social situation. Defending against Social 
Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that causes others to feel 
Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others around. 
Magnetic: People feel drawn to you; those around you are interested in 
Uses: Seduction. First impressions. 
Persuasive: Able to propose believable, convincing and correct arguments 
Uses: Persuading or convincing others. 
Seductive: Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and your 
Uses: Subterfuge, seduction. 
Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily to you, and you are 
Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting someone. 
Elegant, you exude an air of richness and high society. 
people with whom you come in contact. 
ways. 
in which you want someone to understand your meaning. 
conversation, most find it difficult to dislike you. 
Challenge with someone. 
that is good-looking to most people you meet. 
Challenges. 
timid. This Trait is particularly useful when attempting to cow opponents. 
your speech and actions. 
and requests. Very useful when someone else is undecided on an issue. 
body to get what you want from others. 
perceived as a funny person when you want to be. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


NEGATIVE SOCIAL TRAITS 
Bestial: You are noticeably more feral than other humans. Perhaps you 
have more oily hair covering your body, wolflike eyes, sharp teeth, or maybe you 
exude animal musk. 
Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffering of 
others. Your heart is a frozen stone. 
Condescending: Whether you mean it or not, others perceive in you a 
contempt that is impossible to hide. 
Dull: Those who you speak with usually find you boring and uninteresting. 
Conversation with you is a chore. You do not present yourself well to others. 
Naive: You lack the air ofworldliness, sophistication or maturity that most 
carry. 
Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or 
appearance. 
Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around you. Needless to 
say, you make a terrible first impression with strangers. 
Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant. 
Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others find appropriate 
Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be unreliable, whether 
to the social situation. 
or not you really are. 
MENTAL TRAITS 
Perception-related: Attentive, Discerning, Insightful, Obserwant, Vigilant 
Intelligence-related: Cunning, Disciplined, Knowledgeable, Rational, Refkctiwe 
Wits-related: Akrt, Clever, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily 
Miscellaneous Mental: Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Patient, Wise 
Alert: Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly when it 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. 
Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. When 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Noticing small details out of place. 
Clever: Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well on your feet. 
Uses: Using a Mental Challenge against another character. 
Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative, which implies an ability 
to produce unusual solutions to your difficulties. You can create artistic pieces 
- 
a requirement for any true artist. 
Uses: Anything creative. 
Cunning: Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity. 
Uses: Tricking others. 
Dedicated: You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of your 
occurs. 
something extraordinary happens, you are usually ready for it. 
causes is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. 
Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully committed. 
Nothing diverts your intentions to succeed once you have made up your mind. 
Uses: Stare-downs. Useful in normal Mental Challenges. 
Discerning: Discriminating, able to pick out details, subtleties and 
idiosyncrasies. You have clarity of vision. 
Uses: Investigating and tracking. 
Disciplined: Your mind is structured and controlled. This rigidity gives 
Uses: Stare-downs. Useful in Mental Challenges. 
Insightful: The power of lookingat asituation andgaining anunderstanding 
Uses: Investigation (though not a defense against it). 
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you without 
Uses: Spontaneous deduction. 
Knowledgeable: You know copious and detailed information about a wide 
Uses: Remembering information your character might know. 
Observant: Depth of vision, the power to look at something and notice the 
Uses: Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
Patient: Tolerant, persevering and steadfast. You can wait out extended 
Uses: Stare-downs or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. 
Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your ability to 
reduce concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Defending 
against an aura reading. Not used as an initial bid. 
Reflective: Meditative self-recollection and deep through. The Trait of 
the serious thinker, Refkctioe enables you to consider all aspects of the 
conundrum. 
Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending against most 
Mental Challenges. 
Shrewd: Astute and artful, you are able to keep your wits about you and 
accomplish with efficiency and finesse. 
Uses: Defending against Mental Challenges. 
Vigilant: Watchful. You have the disposition of aguard dog; your attention 
Uses: Defending against investigation. More appropriate for mental 
Wily: Sly and guileful. Because you are wily, you can trick and deceive 
you an edge in battles of will. 
of it. 
conscious reasoning, as if by instinct. 
variety of topics. This Trait represents “book-learning.’’ 
important aspects of it. 
delays with composure. 
misses little. 
defense than for attack. 
easily. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


, *----- . 
%. - 
. . . 
.1-  
I
"
 
Uses: Deceiving other characters. Lying under duress. Confusing mental 
Wise: An overall understanding of the workings of the world. 
Uses: Giving advice. Dispensing fortune-cookie wisdom. 
situations. 
NEGATIVE MENTAL TRAITS 
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things. 
Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled. 
Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know anything. 
Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You want 
everything to go your way now. 
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You'd be lucky if you noticed an 
elephant flying through your bedroom. 
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers 
can figure out what you intend to do next. 
Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial. 
Details of perception are usually lost on you. 
Submissive: No backbone. You relent and surrender at any cost rather 
than stand up for yourself. 
Violent: An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into rages at the slightest 
provocation, and frenzy is always close to the surface. This Trait is a Mental one 
because it represents mental instability. 
Witless: Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Foolish and 
slow to act when threatened. 
ABILITIES 
Abilities represent particular bits of knowledge gained over the years of 
study and experience, the tricks of the trade, and the wisdom from many, many 
mistakes. A character's Ability Traits represent special training or talent, and 
as such, they often allow performance of tasks that are otherwise impossible. 
Even with more mundane situations, Abilities allow for a muchdimproved 
chance of success. 
When a character performs a risky or uncertain action, Abilities aid the 
outcome. If you attempt a task and fail, you can temporarily expend one of your 
appropriate Ability Traits to gain an immediate retest. You temporarily lose the 
risked Ability and the initial Trait(s) bid for the task (if any) because you lost 
the initial test, but you can still overcome the challenge. Abilities used like this 
are recovered at the next game session. 
A character with multiple levels in a given Ability is certainly more 
experienced and proficient than an individual with just one Trait. Most 
characters fall into one of three levels of Ability; greater amounts are very rare, 
limited to Imkhu and other ancients. The total level of Ability in a given field 
corresponds roughly to the character's professional capabilities: 
Competent (Able to earn a living) 
Professional (Licensed, capable of supervision) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Journeyman (Bachelor’s degree or instructor) 
Expert (Master’s degree or researcher) 
Master (Doctorate or true innovator) 
Some tasks are simply too difficult, or they require too much skill, to be 
attempted by a character without the requisite Abilities. The Storyteller may 
require the possession or use of an Ability Trait to perform a specific task. In 
this case, characters without the Ability, or who have already used all of their 
levels of the Ability, cannot attempt the task at all. 
When an Ability is used against a set scenario or object (such as using 
Investigation to uncover information), the feat usually has a difficulty assigned 
by the Storyteller. In such a Static Challenge, you may be required to risk a 
certain number of Traits for a trivial task, or be asked to bid more Traits for a 
difficult, risky or tedious task. 
Some Abilities can be used against an opponent instead of facilitating a 
regular undertaking. In this case, the Ability is expended to gain a retest in a 
challenge with the opponent. 
FOCUSING ABILITIES 
A few Abilities specifically require a concentrated area of study. One 
cannot simply study all Crafts at once, after all. These Abilities are specifically 
noted in the descriptions. When you take such an Ability, you must choose an 
area of study, a specific topic that you have concentrated on. Each area is 
considered a separate Ability, so Linguistics: Egyptian is completely separate 
from Linguistics: Hebrew, for instance. 
ABILITY SPECIALIZATIONS 
Within a given area of expertise, some practitioners further hone their 
knowledge to arazor’s edge. By choosing aspecialization in an Ability, you fine- 
tune your skills with a particular facet of that talent. 
Ability specializations are anoptional rule. Remember to ask your Storyteller 
before taking aspecialization. Sometimes they can add even more color to your 
character; however, keeping track of special Abilities can be tedious for 
Storytellers and record-keepers. 
Taking a specialization requires that you spend one Free or Experience 
Trait on an ability that you already possess. Whenever you perform a task with 
that specialization - 
even if you do not expend the Ability - 
you gain a one- 
Trait bonus on resolving challenges, as long as you have at least one level of the 
main Ability left to spend. You may have only one specialization in any given 
Ability; you cannot take Brawl: White Tiger Kung Fu and Brawl: Krav Maga and 
expect an amazing amalgamate feat. Also, you can never gain more than one 
Bonus Trait from specializations, even if more than one would be appropriate 
to a given challenge. Even if you possess Law: Criminal and Investigation: 
Research, you only get the one-Trait bonus on a test for trial preparation, 
despite your multiple specializations. 
A specialization is a concentrated area of expertise or practice. You cannot 
take a Melee specialization in “swords,” for example, nor a Medicine specialization 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of “healing.” Appropriate specializations refer to one focus of expertise, or to 
one type of excellent knowledge within the Ability, such as Academics: 
Antiquities or Lore: Werewolves. 
You may take a specialization within an area of study, though. As such, you 
concentrate your research in one particular facet of that sub-specialized 
Ability. Thus you could have Computer: Hacking with a specialization in 
viruses, or Crafts: Blacksmithing with a specialization in Farrier. 
Note that the Bonus Traits from a specialization are not bid or used like 
other Traits. You simply are “one Trait up” on challenges within that 
specialization. 
Example: Mary-Catherine is a proficient sword fighter, but she excels with the 
rapier. She has the Ability: Melee x 4 with the specialization Rapier. When Mary- 
Catherine encounters a foe in combat, she normally uses her seven Physical Traits. 
Witharapier, howewer, she has eight PhysicalTraits because ofher extensive training. 
Shouldshe tire or be wounded (losingseweralchallenges anddraining Traits), she may 
not be as effective in combat. But as long as she retains at least one level ofher Melee 
Ability, she gets to add the one-Trait bonus to her remaining Physical Trait total. 
Academics 
You possess higher learning beyond a high-school education. With 
Academics, you can debate the existence of gravity, indulge in studies of culture 
and give Jeopardy contestants a run for their money. This broad Ability covers 
all sorts of arts and humanities. 
Academics allow you to recognize and name historical, artistic and cultural 
references. You can use Academics when working in such fields, as developing 
a thesis or researching. Calling on Academics Ability may require a Mental or 
Social Challenge to determine your exact level of competence. 
You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art 
History, Classics, Journalism, Theology or anything else that could be studied 
with higher education. 
Animal Ken 
You understand the nature of the beast and thus the temperament of 
animals. You admire and respect their untamed ways, which allow you to 
empathize and communicate with them. It’s not so much like Dr. Dolittle, 
rather, you know how to deal with them more equitably. Though they may 
sense that you are not quite human, you know what drives animals and how to 
assuage their fears. With AnimalKen, you can train an animal specific behaviors 
or attempt to deduce an animal’s state of being with a Mental Challenge. If you 
work with an animal for at least a month, you may be able to teach it a simple 
trick, up to a limit of one trick for each Mental Trait the animal possesses. 
Athletics 
You might have been an all-around jock in high school, or perhaps you are 
just naturally talented, but you are skilled in all manners of athletic endeavors. 
You can throw a ball, catch, sprint, climb, jump, swim and run with the best of 
them. Your Athletics Ability is used for retests on most forms of raw physical 
activity: acrobatics, running, climbing, jumping, swimming, throwing, dancing 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


and other activities. You may also choose to focus on something you do 
- .  
especially well. 
Awareness 
You have a talent for knowing when things are amiss, whether by that 
strange feeling in the pit of your gut or through scrupulous observation. This 
talent is particularly useful for sensing when other supernatural creatures are 
around, or just knowing when to get the hell out of Dodge. Awareness requires 
a Mental Challenge to use, and retests are made with the Occult Ability. 
Brawl 
Maybe you roughed up the kids at the schoolyard, hard-styled the martial- 
arts students, or kicked ass in bar fights. You might have some military training, 
or maybe you just grew up with a rough-and-tumble sibling who taught you how 
to defend yourself. Whatever the case, you know how to dish out damage with 
your fists and legs. Use the Brawl Ability for retests in combat when you are 
using your natural weapons (teeth, claws or fists). This Ability is also the 
province of the martial arts, although you should specify which art when taking 
this Ability. 
Computer 
Many Reborn are not well-versed in the ways of new technology and, as 
a result, tend to shy away from all things silicon and artificial. Some are the 
exception to the rule, embracing mortal society’s ever-advancing technologies. 
With the Computer Ability, you are versed in the methods of basic computer 
operation, programming and accessing other computers. You can hack into 
systems, write complex programs and viruses, and decode unfamiliar languages 
by using Computer with a successful Mental Challenge (difficulty determined 
by the Storyteller). 
Cosmology 
The truth is out there, further away than the stars we see in the night sky. 
Cosmology reflects your awareness of what lies beyond the physical world, how 
to get there and how to get back. This Ability is very helpful for Amenti who 
plan on spending extended amounts of time in Duat or Neter-khertet. Each 
Trait allows a retest when attempting to enter or return from the Lands of the 
Dead. 
Crafts 
You build and construct things. Depending on your specific area of 
expertise, you might know how to build a house or sculpt figures out of ice. As 
such, you must conform to an area of expertise and focus, such as Weaving, 
Carpentq or Sculpting. Perhaps a more media-focused art, like Painting or 
Drawing, suits your talent. Crafts also covers more labor-intensive technical 
skills, such as Mechanics and Electronics. Making or repairing an item with 
Crafts is decided by a challenge, with the difficulty set by the Storyteller, based 
on the type of job (drawing up architectural schematics is decisively more 
difficult than sanding a 2x4). 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Crafts also include body art, like tattooing, piercing or other body 
alterations. 
Divination 
Signs, omens and portents to the future are all gateways that you can 
visualize. This Ability is separate from Hekau and the abilities of the Mesektet, 
although members of that Amenti often possess these Traits. Once per game 
session, and with access to the proper equipment (entrails of a beast, telescope 
to read the stars, Tarot cards, etc.), your Amenti can attempt to give a general 
reading or ask a specific question. (“What does the future hold instore for me?”) 
All results are at Storyteller discretion. Answers to these questions can be as 
vague or as specific as necessary, and might be a good place for the Storyteller 
to interject fun plot twists. (“Yes, your future holds at least one more perilous 
encounter. One such attack will occur when your back is turned.”) 
Dodge 
You possess enough fighting savvy to avoid physical harm by manipulating 
your body away from directed attacks and, to a lesser degree, gunfire. You can 
only use Dodge against any attack that you’re consciously aware of - maybe a 
fight in which you are a participant, or aduck-and-cover in a drive-by shooting 
that you happen to see unfold. Dodge is used to retest challenges where you 
attempt to avoid physical harm. 
Drive 
You’re at home with either a stick-shift or an automatic, rush hour is no 
concern, and you can get the most performance out of a car. In dangerous 
situations, you can evade traffic and even use your vehicle as a weapon. Bear 
in mind that just because you can drive a station wagon doesn’t mean you can 
drive a semi truck with equal ease. A Mental Challenge may be required for you 
to figure out where everything is in an unfamiliar vehicle. 
Drive tests most often involve a Physical Challenge with your reflexes. 
Empathy 
You are sensitive to the moods and emotions of people around you. When 
you listen to someone, you understand her feelings. You can identify with 
others and tell when people are lying or holding back while talking to you. 
With a Social Challenge and the expenditure of an Empathy Ability, you can 
determine if the last thing someone said was a lie (although Subterfuge can 
defend against this expenditure). Alternately, you can attempt to determine 
the subject’s current Demeanor. 
Enigmas 
You have made a special study of the puzzles, riddles and mysteries of the 
ancient world. Perhaps you are familiar with these ancient mind-benders from 
your First Life and you see the patterns, clues and hidden meanings behind even 
the most abstruse information. 
Etiquette 
You know when to bow or kneel in the presence of an elder, and how to 
address them in a polite inoffensive manner. You can hold a toast with the best 
of them, and you keep your cool in any social scenario, from high tea to a gang’s 
rally. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


at parties. If ;ou make a social faux pas, you may expend an Etiquette Ability 
immediately to negate the gaffe- your character knew better than to make the 
mistake. 
Expression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put 
pen to paper (or fingers to instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion and 
stirring imagery. You can convey messages and meaning in your art, from 
symphonies to poetry, and whatever you write is both clear and moving. When 
writing or composing, you can sink true emotion into the work. Works created 
with Expression x 3 or greater have the potential to entrance Toreador 
vampires, as per their clan weakness. 
Finance 
The world of money and business awaits your whim. You understand 
interest, CDs, stock-market transactions, currency exchanges and GNPs. A 
little Finance lets you make quite a bit of money. You can also use your Finance 
to run a business of your or own balance books. You can manage a business, 
follow a money trail, perform an audit or clean up an accounting mess with a 
Mental Challenge (difficulty dependent on the task, as determined by the 
Storyteller). Alternately, you can spend a level of Finance Ability to raise $250 
in cash between games. Not every use of Finance is so benign-money- 
laundering has to come from somewhere. 
F' irearms 
A little time at the gun range goes a long way. You know how to hold, fire 
and clean a gun. You can clear a jam, too, and you can differentiate between 
various models. You know how to stand to get the best aim, how to handle recoil 
and how to take care of problems in the field. 
If you possess the Firearms Ability, you may use your Mental Traits for gun 
combat instead of using Physical Traits at no cost. You can expend Firearms for 
a retest in ranged-fire combat. 
Hobby/Professional/Expert Ability 
In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have 
achieved some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some 
work on the side, or perhaps you've specifically studied a topic. Hobby/ 
ProfessionallExpert Ability is a catchall category for highly unusual Abilities like 
Demolitions, Lores of various types, and so on. The Storyteller must specifically 
approve any Ability of this type, and its capabilities are defined by the 
Storyteller as well. 
Intimidation 
Intimidation represents a broad variety of techniques used for terrifying 
people into compliance. They could be anything from physical size, to a 
frightening, toothy grin, to knowing which emotional buttons to push. You can 
use Intimidation when trying to scare someone with a Social Challenge. 
Investigation 
You know how to pick up clues and to put together disparate pieces of 
information. By habit and training and with a scrutinizing eye, you can set a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


jumbled mass of data into order, discovering identities, motives and patterns in 
an otherwise chaotic scene. You can use lnwestigation with a Mental Challenge 
when trying to puzzle out meaning to a random scene. 
Law 
Nobody is above the law, except those who know how to use it to their 
advantage. You're one of the latter. Perhaps you uphold the law, or maybe you 
twist it to your own ends. Your knowledge of Law allows you to understand legal 
processes, courts and lawyers, and to use it effectively. Use the Law Ability in 
court situations or with Social Challenges involving legal matters. Because the 
legal body is so vast, your Storyteller may require you to select a particular area 
of study (International, Property, etc.). 
Leadership 
When you speak, people listen. A good speaking voice and self-confidence 
lend a powerful presence to a leader. The Leadership Ability represents your 
ability to motivate people and to get them to follow your guidance. Even among 
those who do not know or respect you, you can demand attention. 
You can use Leadership with a Social Challenge to try and get a minor favor 
or task from a character. 
Linguistics 
You've studied a language (or languages) other than your native tongue. 
As an Amenti, you have probably been exposed to quite a few languages in your 
different lives, and you certainly know the ancient language of your First Life. 
One way or another you can speak, write and read other languages. 
You must choose a language for each level of Linguistics you possess. Thus, 
you could have Linguistics: French and Linguis tics: Egyptian. Alternately, you can 
focus on the underlying study of Linguistics itself, granting some understanding 
of the principles behind the structure of language. Languages need not be 
spoken. American SignLanguage or Egyptian Hieroglyphics are also considered 
fields for study. Those who wish to converse in another language (but cannot 
actually do so) should hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb, making 
an L-shape to indicate to other players that the characters are not speaking 
English. Those who wish to listen to the conversation must also possess the 
language. 
Medicine 
You know how the human body functions. You can speed the recovery and 
healing of an injured mortal, or you can use your knowledge to inflict injury. 
Many learn just enough to assist injured allies and friends. 
You can use the Medicine Ability to speed a mortal's healing by one 
category. A Woundedmortal would heal as if Bruised, for instance. Medicine may 
be used for other sorts of research and lab work with a Mental Challenge. As 
Medicine represents such avast field, your Storyteller may require you to specify 
what you know (Pharmaceuticals, lnternal Medicine, General Practice). 
Meditation 
This Ability allows you to clear and focus your mind, to find inner balance 
and serenity. Meditating requires time and a focus that blocks out other 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


... 
. . . _. 
. 
. I 
distractions. Reborn often use chanting or talismans of some sort (sometimes 
incense). For every uninterrupted hour of meditation, you may convert one 
Trait of Meditation to a temporary Memory Trait (see Background: Memory). 
You may, instead, choose to go one full day without food per hour of 
meditation, for a maximum of three full days. Further meditation, while 
centering yourself and staving off hunger pains, does not stop your body from 
suffering the effects of starvation. You will sustain one health level of lethal 
damage for each day of not eating after your three-day allotment. 
Melee 
If you’ve got something in your hand, you’re a deadly fighter. Be it a sword, 
a stick or apair or silver spoons, you can use it to damaging effect. Expend Melee 
for retests in hand-to-hand combat when you are using a close-combat weapon, 
like a knife or kitchen sink. Certain weapons function best when wielded by a 
character with Melee. 
Occult 
The hidden world teems with mysterious secrets. By unlocking universal 
keys and studying the basics of spirituality, you can learn the shadowy paths of 
the cosmos. Your Occult Ability serves as ageneralknowledge of the supernatural, 
alerting you to the existence of many inhuman creatures and paranormal 
events. 
Some powers rely on the Occult Ability. Occult grants some basic (and 
sometimes erroneous) knowledge of the various denizens of the supernatural 
world. For more detailed information, study Expert Ability: Lore in a particular 
subject of interest. 
Performance 
You are a true virtuoso. Whatever your chosen medium, you have a gift for 
artistic endeavors. Whether playing an instrument, singing, dancing or acting, 
your skills entertain. 
Your Perfomance Ability can be used to earn a modest income, like other 
artistic trade skills. You must also choose a specific art form when you take 
Performance, such as playing an instrument, singing, acting or dramatic 
readings. Note that Performance is generally anything done before an audience, 
while Expression most often focuses on literary works, and Crafts concentrates 
on the creation of physical objects (such as paintings or sculptures). 
Poisons 
You know how poisons work-from 
their effects to their sources and 
antidotes. You can analyze a substance and conclude if it is poisonous. If it is, 
then you can determine what sort of toxin it contains and formulate an 
antidote. This Ability allows you to brew your own poisons and mix antidotes 
with access to the proper material, which generally requires more than just a 
rattlesnake, a pair of pliers and a mason jar. 
Politics 
The world of favors and influence trading is extensive among mortals, and 
through knowledge of the political scene, a careful Reborn can come out on 
top. By using observation, intrigue and a bit of spin-doctoring, you’ve learned 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


how to handle appearances, what a speech really means, and where the deal- 
making is going on. In short, it’s Politics as usual. 
The Politics Ability is primarily useful in dealing with mortal society or 
Influences. You may be able to manipulate the outcome of local political 
actions, with the proper Influence and some well-placed Social Challenges. 
Politics is also used to discern hidden motives and broker deals. 
Knowledge of Politics includes, by extension, an understanding of the 
bureaucratic levels of power. You know how to cut through red tape, or how to 
obstruct others with it. By determining who’s important in a given strata, you 
can avoid wasting time and simply go straight to the person with the power to 
do what you want. 
Repair 
You possess a working understanding of what makes things tick. With 
times, tools and parts, you can fix or slightly alter most of the trappings of 
modem society. This knowledge also allows you to excel at sabotage. The 
Repair Ability is widespread among inventors, mechanics and handymen. 
Using this Ability usually calls for a Mental Challenge, the difficulty of which 
depends on factors like the item’s complexity, the tools and parts available, the 
extent of damage and the time spent on repairs. 
Riding 
You are proficient at riding beasts of burden, including horses and camels. 
In Western society, a person can live his whole life and never sit on an animal, 
but riding is common in many parts of the world, particularly in the deserts of 
the Lands of Faith, where agood camel is often more reliable than afour-wheel- 
drive vehicle. EachTrait allows a retest where a dangerous, complex maneuver, 
or condition, arises while riding. This Ability has to be bid instead ofAthktics, 
since (while it takes a certain amount of athleticism to remain steady on a 
mount) riding is a dual effort. You may be able to stay on your mount, but your 
mount won’t obey you and buck you off, or fall down itself. 
Science 
The modem Information Age is all about the explosion of all manner of 
studies. By categorizing and breaking down the world into many different 
forms, the methods of logic and reason give sentient beings an understanding 
of the universe, or at least small pieces of it. Education in Science covers 
techniques of inquiry, modem studies and a broad range of underpinning work 
in a diverse range of fields. 
Science Ability requires an area of particular study: Biology, Chemistry, 
Physics, Metallurgy, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Geology and Botany are 
all possibilities. Though such a list is far from comprehensive. Combining a 
Science with different fields may give varied results. For example, Science: 
Metallurgy with Acackmics may give results regarding historical research and 
theory, while the same Science with Occult could center on ancient alchemy or 
parapsychology. Actually constructing objects or devices theorized with Science 
may require the Crafts Ability. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Using a particular branch of Science usually requi 
of some sort to determine the success of research, or the viability of theoretical 
work. 
Security 
Whichever side of the law you’ve worked on, it has granted you experience 
in Security techniques. You know about police operations and guard work, how 
they make their schedules and how they undertake their business - 
and how 
to disrupt such operations. Locks, traps, security systems and alarms are all 
within your purview. With a little time, you can put together Security measures 
for a location; you can also defeat such measures. 
Use the Secun’ty Ability with Mental Traits to set up a secure area or 
network, or to formulate a plan for breaching such a network. Security Ability 
is also used to disarm traps, alarms and other devices, and to defeat locks. At 
the discretion of a Narrator, you may be required to use a Physical Trait related 
to dexterity when attempting to bypass a physical lock or alarm. 
Scrounge 
You’re exceptionally good at finding stuff. Whether it’s a crucial part for 
an 1890s gramophone, invitations to an exclusive gallery opening in town, or 
just two bucks for a chili dog with fries from the gutters of downtown, you’re a 
whiz at knowing where to go, who to talk to and how to get what you need. 
Granted, the things you get are rarely brand new and do take time and favors 
to acquire, but such an Ability is useful when your finances are less than 
plentiful or when theft is out of the question. 
Scrounge is typically used in conjunction with an Amenti’s Mental Traits 
(although the Storyteller may occasionally require a Social Challenge for 
haggling), and can be useful when looking for particular items or searching a 
place that is in shambles. 
Stealth 
By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and 
quietly, you can evade or sneak past people. You know how to best take 
advantage of surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities 
for unnoticed movement are not lost on you, as you understand the uses of 
timing and diversion. 
With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past 
guards and searchers (who contest your Ability with their Mental Traits and 
Investigation Ability). You also use Stealth to augment Powers designed to 
conceal. 
Streetwise 
Word on the street is known to you. Even if you don’t have any particular 
friends or contacts in the area, you know about the different communities and 
gangs that hang out in town. You recognize tagging and other territorial 
markings, and you know some of the signs, colors and clothes that denote street 
people, homeless, gangbangers, hoodlums, criminals and social workers. 
Using the Streetwise Ability, with your Mental Traits, lets you recognize 
the influence of various gangs or street communities. You also know about 
criminal organizations and activities, and you could perform a little larceny 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


hostile gang (though you may need Etiquette to make a really good impression). 
Subterfuge 
There are many ways to talk about subjects, and just as many ways to 
uncover the truth of the matter. Even in idle conversation, people use little 
white lies, or slip in hints about their true motives, or try to guide the course 
of discussion and give away their secrets indirectly. The art of Subterfuge is the 
art of reading these tricks and using them effortlessly. 
When someone confronts you with one of your lies, you can use the 
Subterfuge Ability in your own defense (if someone uses the Empathy Ability, 
for instance). By guiding a conversation, you can also unearth someone’s 
Negative Traits; if you manage to steer conversation to a particular topic in 
play, you can expend a Subterfuge Ability and make a Social Challenge to 
determine one of the subject’s Negative Traits related to the topic. 
Survival 
Survival represents a knowledge of terrain, how to find shelter, where to 
find water, techniques in hunting, edible and poisonous plants, and so on. It 
also provides some assurances of a safer existence for those who travel outside 
the cities. Hunting and avoiding danger in the wilderness usually relies on a 
Physical Challenge. With Survival, you can substitute your Mental Traits if you 
so desire. Your Storyteller may require you to take a specialization in a type of 
terrain (Arctic, Desert, Forest, etc.) 
Thanatology 
Most mortals fear death. Ancient Egyptians honored it by studying it. You 
are considered a student of death and dying if your Amenti possesses Traits in 
this Ability. You understand not just the mortification and preservation of a 
corpse, but also the spiritual dimensions of death - 
funerary rites, respectful 
treatment of a corpse, embalming, etc. You may have been an embalmer or 
doctor in your First or Second Life, or perhaps you are just fascinated by life’s 
end in your Third Life. This knowledge also gives you some understanding of 
ghosts and zombies, at least as related to their physical deaths and present 
states. 
Traps 
You have more than a casual understanding of how to build, design and 
disarm various mechanical traps, such as those built in ancient Egyptian tombs, 
or as seen in various movies, to deter thieves and curious professors from 
plundering them. Quite often a mummy uses this skill in her resting place so 
her body and belongings are not disturbed while her soul travels in Duat. 
Traps take time and effort to set up. Combined with Enigmas, you may 
create complex traps that not even the shrewdest of minds would think to 
investigate. 
BACKGROUNDS 
Your character’s Backgrounds help to flesh out ties with mortal agencies, 
their roles in society and available beneficial resources. Each Background is 
used differently. Generally, having multiple Traits in a given Background 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


allows for better or more common use of that benefit. Some Backgrounds 
directly affect your character’s creation anddevelopment; others are called into 
play later during the game. 
ALLIES 
A few friends, most likely from your Third Life or perhaps devotees to your 
cause as Amenti, help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few calls and 
cut a few deals to get assistance in a wide range of activities. Your Storyteller 
will probably require you to define your allies’ relations to you, and how you 
keep them. 
Each Allies Trait possessed represents one person that you can call on for 
aid. Unlike Influences, your Allies have special talents that make them better 
than the average person on the street. Though your Allies may not be aware of 
your exact nature, they can be quite useful if directed properly. 
Generally, your Allies do not show up in play directly. Instead, you can use 
them for certain services between play sessions by notifying your Storyteller. 
An Ally can be directed to follow up on research or activities that you 
have started. If you undertook a specific task, like tailing a certain person, 
researching a project or building something, your Allies can continue the work, 
doing so with one Ability Trait’s worth of expertise. As long as they work on 
the project, your Allies Trait for the individual is tied up. 
If you need aparticularly competent ally, you can expend multiple Traits 
to gain access to a mortal with multiple levels of an Ability or Influence. Each 
Allies Trait that you spend after the first gives an extra level of expertise to your 
Allies. They may use this expertise on your behalf, though rarely with your own 
skill, and they only help as long as you tie up your Allies Background Traits in 
this manner. 
Be wary of calling on your Allies too often. An Ally may call on you for 
mutual aid, or refuse to help if pressed into dangerous or illegal activities. 
A R C A N E  
You are less noticeable than most people, and mortals tend to forget that 
you’re even around. You participate in a fruitful conversation with a group of 
strangers, and five minutes after walking away, the rest of those strangers don’t 
even recall your most memorable qualities. 
Anytime you complete a scene, you may spend one of your Arcane Traits 
to cause everyone involved to forget and lose every record of your name or face. 
(You must spend two Arcane to make them forget both.) You cannot use this 
Background to wipe all record of your existence from the planet - 
just your 
participation in any one scene. Therefore, security cameras have a technical 
problem, witnesses have trouble recalling your name or describing you to 
police, the lens cap was on, the photograph didn’t develop properly, the 
computer crashed.. . however it happens, you are forgotten. 
Arcane does not cover your actions, however. Even if someone can’t 
remember who you are or what you look like, a victim remembers the Hekau 
you used, your crazed behavior or the dangerous information that you passed 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


along. This effect also works only at your behest -your friends won't suddenly 
forget your name. These Arcane Traits refresh each game session. 
Note: Sakhmu mummies may not take this Background, due to their 
particular Liability. 
BA 
Each mummy possesses a Ba, or a portion of the spirit that determines the 
longevity of a mummy. The Ba also represents how adept the spirit is at 
regaining new life after traveling down to h a t .  For every Trait of Ba, a 
mummy's normal 60-year lifespan extends for 10 years. These Traits also 
represent the number of retests you can call once your mummy has died. If you 
do not succeed in a resurrection challenge, then you must wait until the next 
game session to initiate this challenge. 
Note: As an optional rule for Ba, for games that have a more vested interest 
in the Underworld: It takes five full sessions in h a t  to gain the energy 
necessary to make a resurrection challenge. Each level of the Ba Background 
reduces this number by one. At five Ba, you can attempt the challenge one hour 
after death. 
COMPANION 
When a human was mummified, she was frequently accompanied by a 
horde of animals to tend to her in the afterlife. There are recorded discoveries 
of tombs that contained thousands of beasts that had been preserved carefully 
for eternity. After your First Life, your tem-akh spirit was buried with an 
especially loyal beast. The more Traits your Amenti possesses in a Companion, 
the greater the beast can be. The Companion is immaterial, but it can 
communicate with you. It may gift you with minor blessings, as these creatures 
are sacred to the gods, and the gods look favorably on those who walkwith their 
favored creatures. Your Companion also accompanies you in the Underworld. 
Commoncreatures to be mummified include cats, falcons, dogs, crocodiles, 
lions and the ibis, and anything with religious significance to the Egyptians is 
possible. Work with the Storyteller to hash out your Companion specifics. 
CONTACTS 
With the right contacts in all walks of life, you can get all sorts of useful 
information. Keeping your ear to the ground does not always pan out with the 
most insightful information, but it keeps you abreast of the basic 41 1. 
In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and 
information. When you call on your Contacts, you make a few phone calls, 
check with likely snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and 
information as if possessing of a certain amount of Influence. Doing so lets you 
find out exactly what's going on in the city within a particular area. You can 
get information of a level equal to however many contacts you use. If you use 
Contacts x 3 on Industry, for instance, you get information as if digging up dirt 
with Industry x 3 Influence. The advantage of the Contacts Background is that 
contacts can be switched from place to place each game, getting information 
in different areas at your demand. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require 
you to spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of the 
Storyteller. Occasionally, accidents can cause contacts in one area to dry up, 
such as a strike that affects your Industry contacts, or an unlucky astronomical 
conjunction sends your Occult contacts running for the hills. Your contacts do 
not function as aides or lackeys; that duty is the purview of the Allies and 
Retainers Backgrounds. 
INFLUENCE 
Society builds on institutions. As cities are raised, they form gatherings of 
expertise that are manipulated by people in their midst. If you have Influence, 
you can sway the direction of some areas of mundane society, pushing cities to 
grow as you direct. Your Influence can be used to strike indirectly at your foes 
while protecting your own assets, or to gain information and special resources. 
Influencecomes in many different areas. You must allocate Traits separately 
to each Influence; thus, if you have Underworld x 4, you could still have Media 
x 3 independently, but you would have to spend the Traits for each. 
You cannot manage more influence than the sum of your permanent 
Physical, Social and Mental Traits combined. This limit counts against all of 
your total Influence -your combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, 
there are only so many things you can do in a night. 
When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary Influence Traits. 
The tables for various Influence areas detail what you can do with a specific 
number of Traits. Performing an action requires a number of Traits equal to the 
level of the action. For instance, you must use three Traits to perform an action 
listed at the third level of the Influence chart,. Thus, with high levels of 
Influence, you can perform many small actions, or a few significant ones. 
Certain levels of Influence gift you with items money or aides. Unlike the 
Resources Background, money and equipment garnered with Influence does 
not come automatically each month. If you want a steady income from 
Influence, you must direct your Influence in that direction continually, and 
this income does not come with any associated trappings of wealth (you have 
to buy a house and car separately, for instance). Aides garnered with Influence 
generally help for only one specific task, and they usually have only one level 
of Ability in their area of skill- for more competent and readily available help 
- 
take Allies. 
Most cities have a set amount of Influence in various areas. Storytellers 
should map out the total amount of each type of Influence to be had in the city. 
Once all of the Influence of a given type is used up, the only way to get more 
is to use Influence to grow that area of society (making new projects or 
sponsoring investment), to destroy someone else’s Influence and thus free up 
those resources, or to acquire an adversary’s Influence in an area. Also, each city 
may have different reflections on the Influences listed here. A city with a 
thriving independent-film community is going to have a different picture of 
Media or High Society than a city where the arts are being starved out due to 
budget cuts. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Each area of Influence has its own description. Older Reborn, especially 
those who deal heavily in mortal society, may possess far-reaching Influence, 
giving them the power to exert control beyond the levels included here. 
BUREAUCRACY 
You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing 
with social programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and 
regulations, or twist bureaucratic regimentation to your advantage. Bureaucracy 
is useful in operating or shutting down businesses, faking or acquiring permits 
and identification papers, and manipulating public utilities and facilities. 
Government clerks at the city and county level, utility workers, road crews, 
surveyors and other civil servants are potential contacts or allies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license 
Disconnect a single small residence’s utilities 
Close a small road or park 
Get public aid ($250) 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card 
Close a public school for a day 
Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Fake land deeds 
Initiate a department-wide investigation 
Start, stop or alter a city-wide program or policy 
Shut down a big business on a violation 
Rezone areas 
Obliterate records of a person on a city or 
county level 
3 
4 
Initiate a phone tap 
5 
CHURCH 
Though the modem church has less control over temporal society than it 
did in the Middle Ages, its policies still exert considerable influence over the 
direction of politics and communities. Knowing the appropriate people allows 
insight into many mainstream religions, such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam, 
Hinduism, Shinto or Buddhism (fringe or alternative groups, like Scientology, 
are considered to be under the purview of Occult). When you exercise Church 
Influence, you can change religious policy, affect the assignment of clergy and 
access a variety of lore and resources. Contacts and allies affected by Church 
Influence include ministers, priests, bishops, Church-sponsored witch-hunters, 
holy orders, and various attendees and assistants. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Identify most secular members of a given faith 
in the local area 
Pass as a member of the clergy 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


burial, etc.) 
Identify higher church members 
Track regular church members 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church 
Find the average church-associated hunter 
Dip into the collection plate ($250) 
Access private information and archives of a 
church 
Discredit or suspend high-level church members 
Manipulate regional branches of the church 
Organize major protests 
Access ancient church lore and knowledge 
FINANCE 
Manipulating markets, stock reports and investments is a hobby for many 
people, especially those who use their knowledge to keep hidden wealth. 
Though your actual available money is a function of your Resources, you can use 
Finance Influence to start or smother businesses, crush or support banking 
institutions and alter credit records. Such power over money is not to be trifled 
with - 
fortunes are made and destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, 
stockbrokers, bank-tellers, yes-men, financiers and loan agents are found 
among such places. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about major transactions and financial 
events 
Raise capital ($1000) 
Learn about general economic trends 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Learn real motivations for many financial actions 
of others 
Trace an unsecured small account 
Raise capital to purchase a small business (single, 
small store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or 
a single large store or service) 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some 
credit-rating alterations) 
Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect of city-wide banking (shut off 
ATMs, arrange a bank “holiday”) 
Ruin a large business 
Purchase a major company 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


HEALTH 
Some who work within cities rely on their medical connections to acquire 
medical assistance, especially when regenerating muscle and bone within a few 
hours in front of mortal doctors can jeopardize secrecy (not to mention sanity). 
The maintenance of one's privacy often requires alterations of medical records 
or faking of particular diseases. All sorts of medical research and development 
fall under the purview of Health Influence. Coroners, doctors, lab workers, 
therapists, pharmacists and specialists are just a few of the folks found in this 
field. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Access to a person's health records 
Fake vaccination records and the like 
Use public functions of health centers at your 
leisure 
Access some medical research records 
Have a minor lab*work done 
Get a copy of a coroner's report 
Instigate minor quarantines 
Corrupt results of tests or inspections 
Alter medical records 
Abuse grants for personal use ($250) 
Have minor medical research performed on a 
subject 
Institute large-scale quarantines 
Shut down businesses for "health-code violations" 
Have special research projects performed 
Have people institutionalized or released 
2 
3 
4 
Completely rewrite medical records 
5 
HIGH SOCIETY 
The glitterati at the top of society move in circles of wealth and elegance. 
Though many do not find such positions appealing, there is the rare exception 
that indulges in the passions of the famous and wealthy. Access to famous 
actors, other celebrities and the elite-rich grants a certain sway over fashion 
trends. Combined with Fame, amodicum of High Society Influence can turn one 
into a debonair darling of the most exclusive social circles. Among these 
circles, one finds dilettantes, artists of almost any stripe, old-money families, 
models, rock stars, sports figures and jetsetters. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn what is trendy 
Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows 
Learn about concerts, shows or plays before they 
are made public 
Track most celebrities and luminaries 
2 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


3 
4 
5 
Be a local voice in the entertainment field 
“Borrow” idle cash from rich friends ($1000) 
Crush promising careers 
Hobnob well above your station 
Minor celebrity status 
Get a brief appearance on a talk show that’s not 
about to be canceled 
Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh 
gathering 
INDUSTRY 
The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. 
Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, 
churning out the staples of everyday living. Control over hdu.sq Influence 
sways the formation of unions, the movements of work projects, locations for 
factories and the product of manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, 
engineers, construction workers, manual laborers and all manner of blue-collar 
workers exist among these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Have minor projects performed 
Learn about industrial projects and movements 
Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash 
($500) 
Arrange small accidents or sabotage 
Appropriate machinery for a short time 
Close down a small plant 
Revitalize a small plant 
3 
Organize minor strikes 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
LEGAL 
This Influence, as with many others, is not directly related to a Reborn’s 
daily life; however, even the smallest bit of legalese can keep you out of trouble 
in mortal society. Of course, a bit of Legal Influence is excellent for harassing 
an enemy’s assets, too. Such Influence ranges from law schools and firms, to 
lawyers, to judges, to DAs, and to clerks and public defenders. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charge 
Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and 
trusts, court dates) 
Access public or court funds ($250) 
Get representation in most court cases 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


4 
5 
Issue subpoenas 
Tie up court cases 
Have most legal charges dropped 
Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations 
Have deportation proceedings held against 
someone 
MEDIA 
Directing media attention to or away from one’s activities is a key 
component to maintaining, increasing or attacking other’s mortal standing. 
Putting specific emphasis on certain events can place an enemy in an 
uncomfortable spotlight or discredit a rival. WithMedia, you can crush or alter 
news stories, control the operations of news stations and reporters and sway 
public opinion. You can have DJs, editors of all varieties, reporters, cameramen, 
photographers and broadcasters at your disposal. At Storyteller discretion, 
Media Influence may also allow access to the more technical areas of television, 
radio or movies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Learn about breaking stories early 
Submit small articles (within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports 
3 
4 
5 
Get hold of investigative-reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports 
Get project-funding and waste it ($250) 
Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
Kill small local articles or reports completely 
OCCULT 
The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and 
unusual factions. Obviously, a Reborn is aware that there are strange things out 
there by dint of his very existence (what is stranger than an immortal 
mummy?), but hard knowledge of such things is a functionof Abilities. By using 
Occult Influence, you can dig up information to improve your knowledge, get 
inside the occult community and find rare components for magical rituals. Cult 
leaders, alternative religious groups, charlatans, occultists, New Agers and a 
few more dangerous elements can be found here. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Contact and make use of common occult groups 
and their practices 
Know visible occult figures 
Know and contact obscure occult figures 
Access resources for most rituals and rites 
2 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


3 
Know the general vicinity of certain supernatural 
4 
5 
entities and (possibly) contact them 
Access vital or rare material components 
Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($250) 
Access occult tomes and writings 
Research a Basic rite 
Research an Intermediate rite 
Unearth Advanced rites 
POLICE 
”To protect and serve” is the police motto, but these days mortals and 
immortals alike may have cause to wonder just who is being protected and 
served. That said, Police Influence can be very handy to protect one’s holdings 
or to raid the assets of another. After all, attitude won’t save the enemy who is 
the target of a police and SWAT raid. Police of all types, detectives, clerical 
staff, dispatchers, prison guards, special divisions (such as SWAT or homicide) 
and local+highway patrol make up these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn police procedures 
Hear police information and rumors 
Avoid traffic tickets 
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) 
Get “inside information” 
2 
Have license plates checked 
3 
4 
5 
Get copies of an investigation report 
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone 
Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband 
Have some serious charges dropped 
Start an investigation 
Get money, either from the evidence room or as 
an appropriation ($1000) 
Institute major investigations 
Arrange setups 
Instigate bureau investigations 
Have officers fired 
POLITICAL 
Most immortals don’t deal well with bloodsuckers-supernatural 
and 
otherwise. Altering party platforms, controlling local elections, changing 
appointed offices and calling in favors all falls under the purview of Political 
Influence. Well-timed blackmail, bribery, spin-doctoring or any sundry tricks 
are stock in trade on both sides of this fence. Some of the likely contacts and 
allies include pollsters, lobbyists, activists, party members, spin doctors, and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


politicians from rural-zoning committees to the mayors of major cities, or to 
Congressional representatives. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Minor lobbying 
2 
Identify real platforms of politicians and parties 
Be “in the know” 
Meet small-time politicians 
Gamer inside information on process, laws and 
the like 
Use a slush fund or fundraiser ($1000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, 
renovations, small construction) 
Enact minor legislation 
Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office 
Enact encompassing legislature 
STREET 
Ignored and often spat on by their “betters,” those in the dark alleys and 
slums have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who 
might come calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections 
on the underside of the city to find the homeless, gang members, street punks, 
petty criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums or barrios, and fringe 
elements of so-called “deviant” cultures. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Open an ear for the word on the street 
Identify most gangs and know their turfs and 
habits 
2 
5 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of the 
city 
Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life 
Access small-time contraband 
Get insight into other areas of Influence 
Arrange some services from street people or gangs 
Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons 
Mobilize groups of homeless 
Panhandle or hold a “collection” ($250) 
Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG 
Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations 
Control a medium-sized gang 
Arrange impressive protests by street people 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


TRANSPORTATION 
When traveling across highly populated areas where an enemy may have 
control, Transportation Influence can mean the difference between a major 
skirmish and riding through town unmolested. Getting access to special 
supplies and services can also take measure of Transportation. These things can 
mostly be controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, harbors, railroads, 
airports, taxis, border guards, pilots and other untold hundreds of workers, as 
well as more mundane aspects like shipping and travel arrangements. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Know what goes where, when and why 
Travel locally, quickly and freely 
Track an unwary target if he uses public 
transportation 
Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from 
mundane threats (robbery, terrorism, Hunters, 
etc.) 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel 
Avoid most supernatural dangers when traveling 
(such as vampires) 
Temporarily shut down one form of transportation 
(bus lines, ships, planes, trains, etc.) 
Route money your way ($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel 
Smuggle with impunity 
3 
4 
5 
UNDERWORLD 
The world of crime offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle 
leaders. Guns, money, drugs and vice - 
such delicious can be led by anyone 
talented or vicious enough to take them. A few Reborn slip into the vice trades, 
the better to keep an eye on many longtime enemies (like the Followers of Set 
vampires). Underworld Influence lets you call on such favors for all manner of 
illegal dealings, and the Mafia, Triads and drug dealers, bookies, Yakuza, tongs, 
hitmen, fences and criminal gangs fill its ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time 
drugs, petty gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen cars 
Hire muscle to rough someone up 
Fence stolen loot 
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG 
Arrange a minor “hit” 
Meet someone in “the Family” 
3 
4 
Make white-collar crime connections 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Arrange gangland assassinations 
Hire a demolition man or firebug 
Supply local drug needs 
UNIVERSITY 
Institutions of learning and research are the purview of the University 
Influence. Access to the halls of learning can help you with many resources, 
from ancient languages to research assistance to impressionable young minds. 
School boards, students from kindergarten through college, graduate students, 
professors, teachers, deans, Greek orders and a variety of staff fill the ivy halls. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know layout and policy of local schools 
Have access to low-level university resources 
Get records up to the high-school level 
Know a contract or two with useful knowledge or 
Abilities 
Have minor access to facilities 
Fake high-school records 
Obtain college records 
Cancel a class 
Fix grades 
Discredit a student 
Organize student protests and rallies 
Discredit faculty members 
2 
3 
Call in faculty favors 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
KA 
Another fraction of a mummy’s soul, the Ku serves to guard the physical 
body, or khat, and ensure that no one bothers or harms it. Such protection 
varies from shrewd misdirection to outright attacks. When a mummy dies, no 
matter where in h a t  the soul travels, the Ku continues to watch over the khat. 
The body does not decay, scavengers do not eat it, and it is not affected by the 
naturalelements. Unlessanextraordinary force actsupon it, the body effectively 
remains in stasis. 
By buying more levels ofKu, you can strengthen your Ku’s ability to protect 
your body several ways. A powerful Ka ensures protection for your khat on a 
more mundane level - 
tomb robbers slip while scaling a wall, or a snoopy 
archaeologist loses the journal with the only copy of the directions to the tomb. 
Whatever it is, the effect is always coincidental, and is likely the source of many 
“mummy’s curse” tales. 
The levels of Ku also grant it an equal number of extra Traits to use in bids 
against attempts to harm your khat. Likewise, those who would harm your khat 
are forced to bid the same number of extra Traits in challenges whenever they 
seek to injure your corpse or defile your tomb. So three levels of Ku grants you 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


three extra Traits to add when comparing on ties or to use in bidding, and it 
means that the local tomb raider, who was given a Static Mental Challenge 
against six Traits to figure out how to open the door, must add those on to the 
difficulty (for a grand total of a nine-Trait difficulty). 
LEGACY 
You left something of lasting value on the world in your First or Second 
Life from which you still draw strength. It may be a structure, a great historical 
deed, an idea or even the mummified khat from your First Life on display in a 
museum, so long as it is remembered by mortals (not just other Reborn). In 
order to receive the benefits of this Background, the legacy must still exist. An 
infamous deed is not a Legacy unless it led to greater Balance and justice. The 
Legacy must also continue to exist, whether physically or in memory. A 
destroyed or forgotten Legacy means the loss of the Background. 
Once per game session, an Amenti in the presence of her Legacy may call 
for a Simple Challenge. If successful, two Sekhem are temporarily added to her 
pool for the night. If the challenge is tied or lost, only one Sekhem is added. 
MEMORY 
Most Amenti can recall vague impressions and images from the First Life 
of their tem-akh. You can tap those memories of your life in ancient Egypt and 
of the afterlife in h a t .  
For every Trait in this category, you can attempt to recall a specific piece 
of information, such as locations of certain tombs or a mystical phrase to 
activate an artifact. The Storyteller determines the specific information you 
can obtain. Those Traits also, once per session, tap memories of forgotten 
Abilities, allowing you to initiate a challenge for a skill that your Amenti may 
not possess in her Second or Third Life. 
RESOURCES 
You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some 
solid resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, 
these resources are always readily available, and they come to you automatically 
due to your investments, jobs and holdings. 
Your number of Resources Traits determines the amount of money and 
capital that you can secure. By expending temporary Resources Traits (which 
return at the next game session), you can draw on your regular income, as 
shown in the accompanying table. If you expend permanent Resources, you can 
divest yourself of holdings, allowing access to 10 times the amount shown on 
the table. Storyteller always adjudicates the limits of what you can buy. Truly 
powerful uses of Resources are best left to downtimes and moderation between 
game sessions. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


TOMB 
Your khat resides in a safe resting place between lives while your spirit 
recovers in h a t .  The Tomb may be any place where your body can rest for 
weeks, even months, at a time. A sub-basement, an isolated cave in the 
mountains or an undiscovered tomb in the Valley of the Kings, all suffice as a 
proper tomb. This Background also represents the amount of grave goods you 
possess to assist you while you sojourn in the Underworld. 
Each Trait in this Background represents the luxury and security of your 
Tomb. If you wish, your levels can represent multiple lesser tombs. 
VESSEL 
You have an item that is capable of storing Sekhem that you can draw upon 
later. A vessel can be virtually anything, but most have been within the Web 
of Faith for a long period of time, attuning to the energies of Sekhem. It may 
be apiece of jewelry, a stone from an ancient temple, a scarab amulet, or a relic 
like a bone from an ancient corpse. 
For every Trait in this category, one Trait of Sekhem may be stored in a 
Vessel. To activate a Vessel, you must concentrate for one turn as the Sekhem 
flows into you, which you can use like your own. To store Sekhem, you must 
concentrate for two full hours and spend one Trait of Sekhem, imbuing the 
Vessel with this Trait, up to its maximum capacity. Udja-sen and characters 
with the Lifeblood Flaw (p.102) cannot take this Background nor use another’s 
Vessel. 
MERITS AND FLAWS 
As optional Traits to help flesh out your character, Merits and Flaws aid 
in specifying certain benefits and hindrances that add depth that is not readily 
covered by Attributes, Abilities and Backgrounds. All Merits and Flaws are 
organized into specific categories: Physical, Social, Mental and Supernatural. 
In order to purchase Merits, you must spend Free Traits. Conversely, taking a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Flaw adds burden to your beast, but offers extra Traits to spend elsewhere.-You 
may take as many as seven Traits each in Merits and Flaws. 
Normally, you may purchase Merits and Flaws only during character 
creation; however, with an appropriate explanation, you may purchase a new 
Merit (with Experience at double the cost) toovercome anexisting Flaw (with 
Experience at double the cost). 
PHYSICAL MERITS AND FLAWS 
ACUTE SENSES (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
One or more of your senses are particularly sharp (must specify one of your 
five senses). You are two Traits up on all challenges involving this particular 
sense. You may have multiple Acute Senses, but you must purchase this Merit 
once for each sense. 
CATLIKE BALANCE (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
You are sure-footed and almost never slip or get dizzy. Your sense of balance 
is so keen that you can traverse even the most narrow of ledges or wires. You 
are two Traits up in tests where your balance is a factor. 
HIGH PAIN TOLERANCE (3 TRAIT MERIT; 1 TRAIT FOR 
SEFEKHI) 
Your character can shrug off the effects of injury more easily than other 
mortals or Reborn. In game terms, this advantage adds an extra Bruised health 
level to your character's health. 
HUGE SIZE (4 TRAIT MERIT) 
You are abnormally large, possibly over seven feet tall and weighing over 
300 pounds. You gain an extra Bruised health level, and Storytellers should try 
to allow only those people befitting this description to take this Trait. 
DISFIGURED (2 TRAIT FLAW) 
Either a birth defect or an injury during one of your lifetimes has left you 
disfigured in some way. Storytellers should work with you to create an 
appropriate disfigurement. You are down two Traits in any Social Challenges, 
save for Intimidation. 
SMELL OF THE GRAVE (1 TRAIT FLAW) 
You exude a stench of wet earth that puts you automatically one Trait 
down onsocial interactions withmortals. Your earthy aromaisquitedistinctive 
to those familiar with you. 
SHORT (2 TRAIT FLAW) 
You're just shorter than everyone else. You are at least a foot shorter then 
average height and have trouble seeing over counters and reaching for things. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ADDICTION (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
You suffer from an addiction to a substance, whether biological or 
chemical, such as drugs or alcohol. It is up to the Storyteller to decide the 
specific effects of this addiction, but you must satiate it at least once a day. At 
Storyteller discretion, depending on your poison of choice, you may suffer 
Negative Traits (such as Impatient or Lethargic) until you get your fix. This is a 
good plot device for a character who must search out the vice that might stem 
from her First Life. 
MONSTROUS (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
For some reason, you are hideous and physically displeasing. As a result, 
you may not initiate any Social Challenges other than those concerning 
Intimidation, and you may not take any Appearance-related Social Traits, such 
as Alluring or Gorgeous. 
PERMANENT WOUND (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
Perhaps you suffered a deep scar at the hands of a Bane Mummy, or maybe 
your khat was severely injured while your tem-akh traveled Duat. As a result, 
you have permanently lost one Healthy and one Bruised health level. 
SOCIAL MERITS AND FLAWS 
NATURAL LEADER (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
You were born to lead. Your magnetism attracts people, and all they want 
to do is follow your example. You are two Bonus Traits up in challenges involving 
leadership. You must have at least six Social Traits in order to take this Merit. 
NOBLE BEARING (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
Perhaps you were of noble blood in your First or Second Life. For whatever 
reason, you have a noble bearing and manner befitting of a queen or pharaoh. 
Others take notice when you speak, and they respect your personal space with 
a wide berth. You gain a one-Trait bonus to all Social Challenges where you 
bring the force of your personality to bear. 
FASCINATING GAZE (2 TRAIT MERIT) 
The eyes are the window to the soul, and yours are engaging. They may be 
an unusual color, have a strong shine to them, or seem to reflect the wisdom 
of the ages. You may have big baby-blues that no one can resist, or have the 
darkest orbs that can freeze others'hearts withonly aglare. Yougaina two-Trait 
bonus to all Social Challenges involving eye contact. 
DARK SECRET (1 TRAIT FLAW) 
Some incident in your past haunts you and you strive to cover it up. Should 
your friends discover this secret, you will be ostracized from them and branded 
for your misdeed. You gain the Negative Trait: Untrustworthy. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.q... 
. 
...C_.. 
.. . 
ENEMY (1 TO 5 TRAIT FLAW) 
There is someone or something out to get you. The value of this flaw depends 
on the power of your enemy. An enemy with an equal level of power to yours is 
worth one Trait, while a coterie of vampires or cabal of mages is worth five Traits. 
The Storyteller should work with you in order to hammer out the details of your 
enemy. Though your enemy may not show up at every game session, his presence 
is somehow always brought up to keep him fresh in your mind. 
HUNTED (4 TRAIT FLAW) 
A hunter has decided that you must be eliminated. He has the skills and 
resources to make your life “interesting” (and to snuff it out, if you aren’t careful), 
and he keeps you looking over your shoulder. Your friends, family, allies and 
associates are also in peril should this hunter decide to turn his eye their way. 
MENTAL MERITS A N D  FLAWS 
CONCENTRATION (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
You shut out all noises and interruptions that hinder other people. No 
penalty for sudden distractions. 
IRON WILL (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
You are indomitable of will and a rock of stubborn resolve. No matter how 
charismatic or intimidating someone may seem, your determination never 
falters. You may resist mind-altering effects by spending a Willpower Trait. 
NIGHTMARES (1 TRAIT FLAW) 
Twisted dreams plague you in your sleep, bleeding over into your daily life. 
Perhaps you recall the instant before your Second Life came to an end, or your 
only glimpses of your First Life are very unpleasant. These nightmares cause you 
to lose sleep and remembrances haunt your waking hours. At the beginning of 
every game session make a Simple Test. If you fail, you are down two Traits on 
every challenge for the rest of the night due to lack of sleep. 
AMNESIA (2 TRAIT FLAW 
Your mind is a blank slate in reference to your Second and/or Third Life, 
and you recall no memories of your past friends, family or foes. Storytellers 
should write up your character’s history, including the reasons for your 
Amnesia, keeping hidden the character sheet save, for your Abilities, Powers 
and Merits and Flaws from all but your First Life. 
FLASHBACKS (2 TRAIT FLAW) 
You sometimes recall traumatic experiences that you went through in one 
of your past lives. You may mistake people, places or things for familiar ones of 
antiquity. Anytime you are in a situation that resembles your character’s story 
background, you must enter into a Static Mental Challenge or flee in renewed 
terror, or possibly fall catatonic to the ground. Spending a Trait of Willpower 
allows an Amenti a temporary reprieve from this flaw. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


PHOBIA (2 TRAIT FLAW) 
You suffer from an irrational fear of an object, creature or circumstance - 
blood, spiders, heights, crowds, etc. -and do everything in your power to avoid 
it. Your friends view you as a weak link and constantly watch you for signs of 
a breakdown. When confronted with the object of your fear, you must make a 
Static Willpower Challenge against adifficulty set by the Storyteller. If you fail, 
you are unable to initiate any challenges and are two Traits down defending 
against challenges until you spend a Willpower Trait to overcome your fear. 
ANACHRONISM (5 TRAIT FLAW) 
Either something went wrong during the Spell of Life, where you joined 
with a tem-akh, or perhaps your spirit was too weak to push forth any sort of 
influence in conjunction with the completing spirit, but you do not blend in. 
In fact, you couldn’t be more awkward, as you retain incomplete memories of 
your First Life and absolutely no Second Life memories. At character creation, 
you work only with First Life characteristics, which means nothing modem 
(Computer, Firearms, or even speaking a modem language). You have virtually 
no contact to your Second Life, and find yourself in a strange concrete world. 
SUPERNATURAL MERITS AND FLAWS 
OSIRIS’ GIFT (1 TRAIT MERIT) 
You have a green thumb, even in barren lands and deserts. You can make 
grass grow, flowers bloom, plants sprout with a simple touch. These plants 
always do well, although once you’ve left them behind, they must survive the 
natural environment on their own. 
MAGIC RESISTANCE (2 TRAIT MERIT) 
Magical powers do not affect you the way they do others. You gain an 
automatic retest when testing against any form of magic, though this bonus 
applies to both benevolent and harmful effects. However, you can never learn 
the powerful Hekau paths if you possess a Magic Resistance. 
IMMUNE TO DISEASE (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
The powerful Sekhem in your Amenti body renders you immune to normal 
disease and infection. As long as you have at least one Trait of Sekhem, you 
cannot be infected with any non-mortal disease (measles, chicken pox, the 
common cold), but your immune system is fair game should you retain no 
Sekhem in your body. If you are infected but restore your Sekhem later, your body 
heals at one health level per hour for each Trait of Sekhem in your body. If you 
restore two Traits, for example, you would heal two health levels per hour. 
IMMUNE TO POISON (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
The Sekhem protects your body from the caustic effects of mundane 
poisons, although poison and potions created using Alchemy still affect you 
adversely. If your Amenti’s Sekhem drops to zero, mundane poisons affect you 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


as normal. Should you become infected but restore your Sekhem later, your 
body heals at one health level per hour for each Trait of Sekhem in your body. 
BES’ BLESSING (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
You’re just damn lucky - 
selling your soul does that sometimes. You get 
three “Lucky” retests per story, for which you bid a Lucky Trait. (“I just set off 
a firewall? I bid Lucky and call for a retest! I won the retest, and the firewall 
didn’t go off after all.”). The result of the retest is the final result of the 
challenge. 
UNBONDABLE (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
Amenti live in a world filled with vampires like the Followers of Set. These 
vampires can create what is known as a blood bond, which is aspiritual link that 
forces victims into willing servitude, through three drinks of their blood. With 
this Merit, however, the blood bond cannot take hold of you. No matter how 
much blood you drink, you will never be bound, even partially. 
GIFT OF THOTH (5 TRAIT MERIT) 
Like the legendary magicians of ancient Egypt, you are especially gifted in 
the use of a particular Hekau path. Choose one path (most likely your Amenti’s 
primary path). Sekhem costs for all rituals for that path are halved (round up). 
If you have the Lifeblood Flaw, you suffer half the number of levels of bashing 
damage when casting a ritual. 
CURSED (1 TO 5 TRAIT FLAW) 
You are afflicted by a powerful curse. The number of Traits determines the 
strength and tenacity of the curse. A one-Trait curse might cause you to 
become clumsy or to lose any paper you write on; a three-Trait curse might 
require you to always lock every door you pass through; a five-Trait curse can 
be powerful enough to one day be your undoing. The exact effects, as well as 
ways to overcome it, are up to the Storyteller. 
SOUL’S REFLECTION (1 TRAIT FLAW) 
Your character appears as she did in her First Life in mirror reflections and 
photographs. However, sheappearsas shedoes inher ThirdLife whenvideotaped. 
Obviously this Flaw can cause problems with hiding an Undying nature. 
TOUCH OF FROST (1 TRAIT FLAW) 
Your chilling caress pulls heat away and kills plants. This Flaw is mostly an 
eerie effect, though you should mention your ice-cold touch to anyone who has 
physical contact with you. It is not difficult to track you in grassy parks or places 
of dense foliage. 
HAUNTED (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
A malicious spirit, possibly a felled foe or a jealous spirit you met in h a t ,  
has decided to torment you from beyond the grave. Though it is usually limited 
to ghostly manifestations, chilling screams and the occasional shove, it does its 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


best to make your life difficult. The Storyteller should create the spirit and have 
a Narrator occasionally follow you to make sure you suffer your Flaw. 
LESSER RESURRECTION (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
You belong to a group of mummies who avoided the new Spell of Life, and 
you are considered a rebel. To Amenti, you are Shuankhsen, known as the 
Lifeless. The Shemsu-heru and related cults have very little love for you and 
yours. You are alive, but not perfectly. You have all of the physical trappings of 
life, but you are infertile, and register under supernatural perceptions with a 
weak life aura. This weak aura forces you to make a Static Physical Challenge 
when you are struck down to the Incapacitated health level. If you fail, you 
suffer a swift yet painless death. Your blood contains no actual vitae and is 
unpalatable and infertile to vampires. 
EW’S REST (3 TRAIT FLAW: 1 TRAIT FOR MESEKTET) 
When night falls, the sun god falls into the sleep of death as his great barge 
sails through the Underworld. According to legend, the dead stand guard over 
Ra’s body and fight the demons of Apophis who seek to consume him and keep 
him from rising again. Whether or not you seek to protect Ra, you are bound 
to follow Ra’s cycle of death and life. When the sun sets each night, you fall 
dead and do not return to life until dawn. Sunrise does not repair any damage 
you suffer during the night. It is possible that you could be hurt badly enough 
to plunge into an actual death cycle. 
SLOW HEALING (3 TRAIT FLAW) 
You have difficulty healing damage to your khat. Your natural healing rate 
is half that of a normal person, and special healing methods (such as alchemical 
or through other Hekau paths) are only half as effective. 
TOUCH OF DEATH (4 TRAIT FLAW) 
You bring with you the taint of death from the Lands of the Dead, affecting 
whatever you touch. Simple living things, like plants and insects, wither and 
die at your touch. Hardier creatures also suffer damage, losing one health level 
for every hour after the first in which they remain in contact with you. The 
injured and ill cannot heal in your presence. You endure a one-Trait penalty 
when performing healing rituals. You can heal normally, but suffer this one- 
Trait penalty if someone tries to heal you through ritual. This Flaw is most 
common for Sefekhi mummies, and it is often found coupled with the Gift of 
Thoth in Necromancy. You cannot take Touch of Frost with this Flaw, as this 
Flaw already encompasses those effects. 
LIFEBLOOD (5 TRAIT FLAW: 2 TRAIT FOR UDJA-SEN) 
As with the Udja-sen, you cannot draw Sekhem from any external source, 
including the Web of Faith, and instead must expend your own life-force. You 
have no Sekhem to spend. Any time that your character uses Sekhem, she must 
expend the corresponding number of health levels. If the Lifeblood Flaw is 
chosen, you cannot take the Immune to Disease or Immune to Poisons Merits. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


BALANCE 
As an agent of Ma’at in the world, a mummy has a Balance rating that 
measures the strength of her understanding and relationship with universal 
justice, balance and rightness. A mummy starts out with a limited Balance, 
which is granted by the joining and the Spell of Life. As she studies and 
progresses, proving herself worthy through words and deeds, she strengthens 
and deepens her understanding of this universal principle. An Amenti with a 
deep understanding of Balance is capable of amazing feats, since those in 
harmony with Ma’at know that the force of the universe is behind their deeds. 
Those players who are familiar with Vampire: The Masquerade might equate 
this Trait with Humanity, but those rules do not provide a complete picture of 
what Balance is. Rather, it is a spiritual and cosmological enlightenment that 
is embodied in a particular moral code. 
An Amenti begins character creation with one Trait of Balance, and he 
can purchase more with Freebie Traits, up to three Balance Traits. 
A Reborn’s Balance determines how much Sekhem she can have at any 
one time. A mummy can attain a greater Sekhem rating only through the use 
of Hekau. 
An Amenti can call for a Balance Challenge versus an appropriate number 
of Traits in order to resist any temptation or force that causes her to violate the 
natural order, which includes vampiric powers of Dominate and other wizardry 
powers, as well as Social Attributes and Abilities. 
A mummy can use the strength of her Balance to protect the natural order 
from unnatural changes, and therefore gains a Trait to her Balance score when 
opposing Sphere magic cast by mages. This type of countermagic is considered 
a single action, versus eight Traits. 
An Amenti can have Attribute ratings equal to his Balance score, so a 
character whose Balance goes six Traits can spend experience to increase his 
Attributes to superhuman levels. Similarly, a mummy’s magical skills are 
limited by his adherence to the path of Ma’at, and thus no Hekau can exceed 
his Balance score. 
S E E M  
The ancient Egyptians used Sekhem to mean alternately “power” or “life- 
force.” For the Undying, Sekhem refers to the life energy flowing through the 
world and focused within the Web of Faith. This energy helps sustain them in 
their immortal existence, and it allows them to use their magic of Hekau. It is 
to them what Gnosis is to the changing breeds, what quintessence is to the 
mages, what blood is to the vampires. The Web of Faith plays a key role in a 
mummy’s rebirth, as it acts as a conduit for the power ofOsiris himself. It is fairly 
easy for an Amenti to tap into the Web to regain lost Sekhem. 
A mummy regains Sekhem in a few different ways. Each may be performed 
anywhere in the world except Osiris’ Blessing, which may only be used within 
the Web of Faith. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A mummy automatically regains one I rait ot Sekhem at sunrise each day 
where his physical body resides, representing the renewal of Ra rising from the 
Undenvorld. 
Osiris bestows energy upon his children where he dwells in the Web of 
Faith. For each full day that a mummy has spent within the region of the Web 
of Faith, his player may initiate a Balance Challenge with a difficulty of the 
Shroud rating. Each success restores one Trait of Sekhem up to a maximum of 
the character’s Balance rating. If the player loses the challenge, the mummy 
recovers no Sekhem. 
The world outside the Lands of Faith is strongly influenced by the power 
of Apophis, making Sekhem less freely available. Few isolated havens remain 
where Ma’at is still strong, although they are often under the power of other 
supernatural forces. A mummy lucky enough to gain entry to one may spend 
a full day meditating there to recover Sekhem. The player makes a Mental 
Challenge, and if successful, can recover her character’s Sekhem by the same 
rules listed for Osiris’ Blessing. 
Udja.sen may transfer their own Sekhem to another mummy. 
Certain Hekau rituals can provide the character with Sekhem. 
A mummy can draw Sekhem from a Vessel (see the Vessel Background for 
details). 
A mummy can draw strength and spiritual power from a legacy from her 
previous lives (see the Legacy Background for details). 
Mages can use the Prime Sphere to grant a mummy Sekhem in the form of 
Quintessence. An Effect that restores or grants Quintessence does the same for 
Sekhem. See Laws of Ascension for details on Quintessence. 
WILLPOWER 
Willpower Traits measure the strength of your character’s resolve and 
sense of self. By exerting your Willpower, you can withstand otherwise 
untenable conditions and renew your commitment to a course of action. 
Willpower Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have 
permanent Willpower (your normal limit of Willpower Traits) and temporary 
Willpower (your expendable Traits). Your tribe determines your starting 
permanent and temporary Willpower. When you expend temporary Willpower 
Traits or raise your permanent Willpower, you regain temporary Traits at a rate 
of one per game session (though your Storyteller may vary this pace to suit the 
needs of his game or to simplify bookkeeping). 
Expending a Willpower Trait opens the gate for a number of effects, 
but generally to keep self-determination and to empower difficult or 
complex actions. Using Willpower is almost always a reflective action and 
does not count as your turn. 
A Willpower Trait can be spent to refresh all of your lost Traits in an 
Attribute category - 
Physical, Social or Mental. You may do so once per 
category per game session. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


bxpenditure ot a Willpower ‘1-rait allows you to gain a retest when 
defending against a Mental or Social Challenge. Trait loss works as normal 
for such retests. 
Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for which 
you lack an appropriate Ability. Thus, you can make a test even if you 
normally require a specific Ability that you don’t have or that you have 
used up. 
You can expend a Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to 
and including Incapacitated, for the duration of a full turn. 
SAMPLE CHARACTER CREATION 
Rob is tired of tabletop games and decides that he wants to try out a local 
live-action venue. He is used to playing Vampire: The Masquerade, but does 
not care to pretend to be a blood-sucking creature. He does enjoy pretending 
to be an ancient incarnation from a world just recently remembered and 
concludes his search with Mummy: The Resurrection. Rob decides to pick up 
a copy of Mummy: The Resurrection at his local hobby store, then gets on the 
Internet and searches for LARP games in his area. He finally settles on a popular 
chronicle and sits down with the John the Storyteller to discuss his character 
ideas, and to get a more in-depth idea of the game’s story and plots. 
STAGE ONE: THE SECOND LIFE 
Step One: Concept 
Rob begins by looking for a concept, a basic idea of who his character was 
in his Second Life. He decides that his character was a shallow, power-hungry 
businessman, someone who has underlings to do his dirty work and lots of liquid 
assets. Thinking further, Rob decides his character’s severe lack of respect for 
others as the consummate conniver would be attractive to a wandering Amenti 
soul-that 
of a Mesektet. The Joining would aid his character in turning over 
new leaf, to atone for the sins of his former life. John makes a mental note to 
plan for fun plot twists to throw at Rob’s character in his struggle for Ma’at. Rob 
chooses Martyr for his Nature and Caregiver for his Demeanor, reflecting the 
new facet of his personality that the Mesektet spirit has supplemented to his 
once-selfish and slimy personality. John points out that the Path of Ma’at is the 
one and only path on the quest for Balance that an Amenti can follow. John 
then instructs Rob to choose an Inheritance, to figure out what sort of First Life 
his character led. Rob decides that he was a priest, skilled in the art of healing 
and divine magic. Finally a name for his character comes to him - 
Brian. 
Step Two: Attributes 
Rob now prioritizes his Attribute categories to determine his mortal 
strengths and weaknesses. He decides that Social is Brian’s primary Trait 
category, Physical is secondary and Mental is tertiary. Rob explains that his 
choices reflect Brian’s abilities as a manipulator and conniver (Social) willing 
to take physical action if necessary (Physical), but gives no thought to the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


aftermath of his schemes (Mental). Now Rob must choose individual Traits for 
each category, beginning with six Social Traits. He chooses Charismatic, 
Charismatic, Intimidating, Magnetic, Persuasive and Persuasive. That makes Brian 
a competent manipulator. Next his Physical, with four Traits, and Rob picks 
the Traits Brawny, Rugged, Stalwart and Tough, reflecting Brian’s bulky body 
but lack of agility. Finally comes Mental, with three Traits, and Rob picks 
Cunning, Cunning and Dedicated to reflect Brian’s overall determination to get 
what he wants, even if he lacks the know-how. 
Step Three: Advantages 
Now Rob has to choose Brian’s Abilities. There are many that Rob wants 
to scribble down on his character sheet, but for now he is restricted to five 
Abilities as a mortal. John explains that, at the stage, Rob is not able to increase 
any Ability above three Traits. To stay true to Brian’s shady personality and 
cutthroat lifestyle, Rob selects Computer, Finance, Finance, Fiream and 
Subte.rfuge. All of these Abilities come together to aid Brian in his business life 
as a top executive. They also provide a narrow scope of talents, reflecting a 
single-mindedness to play to his strengths and use them to his advantage. 
Step Four: Backgrounds 
Rob must decide what mortal ties Brian has cultivated during his mortal life. 
To stick to Brian’s beaten path, he quickly scribbles down one level of Finance 
Influence and two levels of Resources. Rob explains that Brian had skimmed off 
the top of many business deals and was able to build up a small nest-egg. 
Step Five: Details 
John instructs Rob that, at this stage, he has the option to spend five Free 
Traits wherever he feels Brian, as a mortal, might need a little beefing up. Rob 
looks over his character and decides that Brian should have more liquid assets 
and places a Free Traits into Resources. He also thinks that Brian should have 
a source for inside information and spends a Free Trait into the Contacts 
background. So far John agrees with Rob’s decisions. Next, Rob chooses to 
increase Brian’s Social capacity and allots two Free Traits into the Social 
Attribute category, specifically Magnetic and Persuasive. Finally he invests his 
last Free Trait into the Physical Trait Enduring. Now, Brian has eight Social 
Traits: Charismatic, Charismatic, Intimidating, Magnetic, Magnetic, Persuasive, 
Persuasive and Persuasive. He also has five Physical Traits: Brawny, Enduring, 
Rugged, Stalwart andTough. Finally, Brian has the following BackgroundTraits: 
the Influence of Finance, Contacts, Resources x 3. John takes a look at the 
numbers and everything adds up in his calculations; he then approves the 
character for this stage. 
STAGE TWO: THE REBIRTH 
Step One: The Second Death 
This step, as John explains, is designed to help Rob work out the details of 
Brian’s death and rebirth as Amenti. He further explains that Rob should take 
a few minutes, even an hour or more if necessary, to detail this first step. For the 
next 20 minutes, Rob pens an outline chart of his character, then comes back to 
John with a story of “just desserts.” Rob explains to John that Brian was killed 
during a shoddily executed blackmail scheme, shot 10 times - 
one bullet for 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


each thousand dollars Brian attempted to extort from a busin 
then moves on to Brian’s rebirth, when his soul meets up with a brilliant glowing 
creature, the Mesektet tem-akhspirit that found him in adark place, offering him 
two fates: eternal life or to move forward to whatever afterlife he has coming to 
him. Brian, in a moment of clarity, realizes that his soul is not destined for the 
pearly gates and chooses eternal life. The tem-akh spirit joins with Brian’s soul, 
forcing his physical body to heal the fatal bullet wounds and, as if moving like a 
zombie, travels to the Lands of Faith and seeks out the Spell of Life. This Rite of 
Rebirth succeeds and Brian is reborn Brian Ferguson-Rahotep. 
Step Two: Attributes 
Rob must now allot two additional Traits to his Attributes, preferably to 
the ones where he lacks stronger numbers. To keep it simple, Rob increases 
Brian’s Mental Traits by two, and takes Knowledgeable and Wise, reflecting this 
new influence on his life. This raises Brian’s overall total to five Mental Traits. 
Step Three: Abilities 
Now Rob is instructed to add five more Abilities to his total, and is allowed 
to pass beyond three Traits in a single category. John adds that Rob may want 
to choose some Abilities specific to the ancient Amenti knowledge. Rob then 
chooses Cosmology, Divination, Medicine, Meditation and Occult. Brian now has 
a total of 10 Abilities: Computer, Finance, Finance, Firearms, and Subterfuge and 
the five Ability Traits above. John compliments Rob in his choices, noting that 
Rob seems to grasp the basic idea behind the Joining and how a tem-akh spirit 
provides Traits that a nehem-sen spirit lacks before rebirth. 
Step Four: Advantages 
John informs Rob that this is where the supernatural part of Brian is fleshed 
out-the 
nifty powers and Backgrounds. Rob must choose his Hekau and allot 
three Traits into them, reserving one Trait for Celestial, his primary Hekau path. 
John explains that each Amenti has his own primary Hekau, and that Celestial 
is the primary Hekau path for the Mesektet. Before Rob continues, John explains 
that Rob cannot have a Hekau path rating higher than Brian’s Balance score, 
which starts at one Trait. Rob looks over Basic-level Celestial spells and rituals, 
and chooses Becalm, granting access to a spell that allows Brian protection from 
adverse weather conditions within a limited distance from him. Next he chooses 
the Alchemy Hekau ritual Simple Elixir: Monkey’s Dew, which magically boosts a 
recipient’s physical dexterity. Finally, Rob chooses the Necromancy Hekau spell 
Judge the Soul, enabling Brian to gaze at a subject and judge the purity of his soul. 
Now Rob must add two additional Background Traits, keeping in mind what 
John mentioned about these steps and choosing Traits more geared to an 
Amenti, and allots one Trait each to the Ba and Ka Backgrounds. 
Step Five: Finishing Touches 
Rob has come to the last facet of character creation. He must first write 
down his starting Balance score, which for any Amenti is one Trait, then he 
assigns his starting Willpower of five Traits. Last comes Brian’s starting 
Sekhem, the magical power within Brian, which, like any starting Amenti, 
begins with one Trait. John then asks Rob if he’d like to take any Negative 
Traits or Flaws. Rob decides that Brian is Clumsy, even after his rebirth - 
his 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


bulk is somewhat ot a nuisance. Rob also invests in Flashbacks, a two-Trait flaw 
that he deems appropriate as a constant reminder of Brian’s mortal demise. 
Finally he takes the Permanent Wound, a three-Trait flaw to further play 
up Brian’s final moments in mortal life, as he suffers each morning from the 10 
fatal bullet wounds. Rob can now spend five additional Free Traits, plus the six 
extra Free Traits he earned from taking Negative Traits and Flaws, for a total 
of 11 Free Traits to spend into Merits or to increase other Traits. Rob spends 
two Free Traits to increase Brian’s overall Balance score by one Trait, for a total 
Balance score of two Traits. With nine Free Traits remaining, Rob allots two 
more Free Traits to increase Brian’s Sekhem score by one Trait, for an overall 
Sekhem score of two Traits. Seven Free Traits to go -Rob takes advantage of 
his increased Balance score and purchases the Basic-level Cekstial spell Sahu- 
Ra, which bathes Brian in a brilliant sunlit aura. Now down to four Free Traits, 
Rob spends three more Free Traits into the Ba background, now at four Traits. 
John comments that Brian will rarely spend any more than a few days in 
the Underworld, an impressive score and show of spiritual strength. His final 
Free Trait goes to the Tomb Background, which will provide a basic resting 
place for his khat while his Ba travels into the Underworld. Rob reasons that 
since Brian’s Ba score is so high and requires very little time in the Underworld, 
he did not need five-star accommodations; it is one last showing of the catharsis 
Brian has undergone through the Joining. John makes sure that Rob makes a 
note of his Mesektet Purpose and Liability, and seeing that all of his numbers 
add up, sanctions Brian Ferguson-Rahotep as a playable character in his LARP. 
Rob is ready to pit Brian against the Apepnu and other minions of Apophis. 
EXPERIENCE 
The Amenti, like living people, have the opportunity to grow and change. 
They can reflect on what’s happened to them, what they’ve attempted, and 
how it worked out. Experience points quantify this process of development in 
capabilities for characters. 
Storytellers and Narrators award experience Traits at the end of each 
session. Each character who takes part in play and survives should get one 
experienceTrait. AdditionalTraits come at Storyteller discretion. The character 
of a player who makes useful and enjoyable contributions to the game, and who 
helps create opportunities for other players along the way, often receives two 
experience Traits. Three-Trait awards are usually saved for truly memorable 
play - particularly at the climax of long-running storylines and scenes of 
appropriate and heroic roleplaying, and for significant contributions to making 
the game possible, like securing a great site on a regular basis. Generally, most 
players earn one experience point per session. 
Chronicles with sessions held just once or twice a month, or even less, may 
want to increase the basic award to two Traits per session. This allowance lets 
characters develop about as rapidly as they would in a chronicle with more 
frequent sessions, which players usually find satisfying. It is possible to run a 
mutually rewarding chronicle in which characters develop little or if at all, but 
players want to know about a Storyteller inclination of this sort before 
committing themselves to play. (They will also be more likely to agree if they 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


get'more than the usual starting Trait totals, so that characters begin play 
somewhere in the realm they could normally reach only after extended play and 
accumulation of experience Traits.) 
Storytellers should aim for consistency and fairness in experience awards. 
Players notice such things, and those who find themselves consistently suffering 
capricious shortfalls tend to drop out, while those who consistently received 
unearned bonuses are likely to abuse their status in ways that make the game 
less enjoyable for others. It is all right to decide that higher or lower experience 
awards would help out the game in some important way, but these changes go 
better when players get a chance to discuss them with Storytellers and thus 
understand why they're happening. 
Note that mummies can continue to learn and develop their potential 
while in the Underworld. Learning doesn't ever have to stop for the Reborn. 
Like bonus Traits, experience Traits lets players buy new capabilities for 
their characters, according to this chart." 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


“Hekau” is the ancient Egyptian word for magic; literally, it means “words 
of power.” Some forms of magic hinged on one’s position - 
tradition says that 
the pharaoh could do things by virtue of being the living incarnation of the 
gods, for instance. Other forms were available to anyone willing to study the 
texts and practice the disciplines. The Hekau as described here draw on that 
tradition. Some require the innate power of Sekhem to use, but the knowledge 
component of each is available to anyone with access to teachers and texts. 
Most tem-akh retain some knowledge of protective charms and the like 
from their First Lives. The Cult of Isis preserved more lore, and its members now 
instruct the Amenti. In addition, the Amenti make their own discoveries and 
trade insights with each other. 
Alchemy: Named for A1 Khem, the Black Land, Alchemy is one aspect of 
Egyptian magic with a living inheritance. The Western magical tradition 
includes many variations on Alchemy, and they all have roots in Egyptian 
practice: the elixir of life, universal medicine, the transmutation of elements. 
The Scroll-bearers guarded knowledge lost to living people in their time in the 
Underworld, and now they return it to the world. 
Amulets: Meket, the art of crafting charms, focuses magical power 
through material objects for the protection of their wearers. Wealthy and 
powerful Egyptians were interred with as many amulets as they could obtain to 
guard them against the Underworld’s dangers. The Tomb Watchers mastered 
at least a few warding spells while guarding their respective khat, and build on 
those basics after the Rite of Rebirth. 
Celestial: The gods move in the heavens, and the careful student of 
celestial phenomena can learn much. Armed with knowledge, the magician 
can then command nature. Celestial magic is often subtle, but far-reaching in 
its potential. The Night Suns carry a special affinity for Ra and his movements 
within them, and reach out from the sun to the rest of the cosmos. 
Effigy: This art relies on sympathetic magic, which is the bond between 
a physical representation of a thing and the thing itself. Like amulets, ushabti, 
or “answerers,)) were often laid alongside buried Egyptians to assist them in the 
afterlife. Today the Spirit Scepters apply their experience of the Underworld 
and their memories of the ancient craft to attend to the needs of Osiris’ modem 
servants. 
Necromancy: The magic of the dead reached unparalleled heights in 
Egypt, in part because of the Egyptian insights into the complex nature of the 
soul - 
its many parts and their interactions with each other and the body. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Necromancy as the Unbandaged Ones practice it makes particular use of the 
dark power of the khaibit, but it can also deal with the whole of the soul’s legacy. 
Nomenclature: Egyptianmythology sayscreation began with a word, and 
everything is what it is because of its ren, or true name. The evolution of 
language has hidden many secrets of naming magic from mortal magicians; 
only the surviving Shemsu-heru remember the authentic power of old. New 
Amenti draw on memory and concealed lore to work feats that dazzle living 
mages of other traditions. 
WORKING MAGIC 
The Hekau are not unidirectional sequences of power. Each level of 
mastery that a mummy possesses allows multiple options. There are two 
separate measures of power: the character’s path rating in a Hekau, and the 
difficulty of a particular spell or ritual. A path rating of 1 or 2 lets the character 
learn Basic effects in that Hekau; a path rating of 3 or 4 lets the character to 
learn Intermediate effects; a path rating of 5 lets the character learn Advanced 
effects. 
Each character begins with three levels of path rating to divide up, one of 
which must be in the Hekau that Amenti’s tem-akh specializes in (a rating of 
2 in one Hekau and 1 in another, or 1 each in three Hekau). The character also 
starts off knowing two Basic spells and two Basic rituals from among the Hekau 
in which he has a rating. A character’s path rating in any Hekau may never be 
higher than his Balance rating. Note that there are separate experience costs 
for raising path ratings and learning rituals and spells - 
path rating measures 
potential, but does not automatically convey knowledge of special applications. 
A mummy punished by the Judges of Ma’at may well have her Balance 
rating fall below her current Hekau path ratings. Her path ratings drop 
accordingly, and she must raise them again with experience. She doesn’t have 
to relearn spells and rituals rated too high for her new, reduced condition: She 
doesn’t forget them, she’s simply unable to apply her knowledge until Balance 
and path rise again. 
CASTING SPELLS 
Casting a spell takes a single action. Make the challenge described for that 
spell; if it succeeds, the effect applies immediately. The Sekhem Traits required 
are spent whether or not the challenge succeeds. 
PERFORMING RITUALS 
Rituals take more time. Each Hekau path lists the time required for its 
rituals. Performing one is an extended action and requires concentration. 
Interrupting the ritual to take other actions breaks the process and requires 
starting over, as does suffering levels ofhealthdamage. Multiple mummies may 
collaborate on rituals, dividing the Sekhem costs between them. Only one 
makes the actual challenge, though, and the participants can decide which one 
puts in this culminating effort. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ummy may employ a total number of amulets and effigies equal 
to his Balance rating, plus his Amulets or Effigy path rating, whichever is higher, 
plus any applicable spells. 
PREREQ_UISITES 
Some rituals and spells require more than just the foundations of knowledge 
of a particular Hekau’s effects. There are some “almost Intermediate” effects 
not available to those who just started studying Hekau, and some “almost 
Advanced” effects likewise beyond those who’ve just acquired the ability to 
leamhtermediate effects.These effects are noted withapath rating prerequisite 
of 2 or 4, where appropriate. 
HEKAU AND ATTRIBUTES 
Some Hekau paths, such as Alchemy or Amulets, grant effects that can raise 
a character’s Attribute Traits into superhuman heights. Such gifts do not come 
without a price, though. 
One important note is that multiple enhancements cannot “stack)) or add 
to the same Attribute simultaneously. If you drink a potion that increases your 
Wits-related Traits while wearing an amulet that does the same thing, only the 
higher bonus applies; the two bonuses merely overlap. On the other hand, keep 
track ofwhere your enhancements come from. Returning to the same example, 
if your amulet is lost during combat, you still receive the benefits of your potion 
(until it wears off). The reverse is also true - 
if the potion wears off, your 
amulet continues to work. 
Any bonuses gained are figured starting from normal human maximums 
(see Laws of the Hunt), not from current Attribute Trait numbers - 
again, you 
cannot stack. This also applies to other supernatural or mortal beneficiaries of 
such powers. Most supernaturals or mortals cannot make use of many Hekau 
enhancements unless they have a Balance or True Faith rating of 3 or greater. 
Minions of Apophis possess a Corruption rating instead of Balance, which 
allows them to perform dark equivalents of the Hekau described below. No 
Hekau can grant more than three bonus Traits to a single Attribute subcategory 
(Strength, Stamina, Appearance, etc.). 
It is possible for a mummy to gain more permanent Attribute Traits 
beyond the normal human maximum, but only through exceptional effort on 
behalf of Ma’at, spending experience, the decision of the judges and the 
discretion of the Storyteller. 
ALCHEMY 
Alchemy itself is neither a spell nor a ritual; it produces products that 
embody particular effects, or can create the effect in a target. Alchemists 
usually refer to their spells and rituals as formulas and discuss them in terms of 
their contents and preparations. An alchemist must spend at least one hour 
working on a Basic formula, three hours on an Intermediate formula, and five 
hours on an Advanced formula. Once created, the product has a shelf-life of 
one year per path level. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


^Alchemy affects only the khat, which is the physical body and its physical 
substances. Non-corporeal entities cannot partake of alchemical creations. 
Nor can the creations of Alchemy benefit supernatural creatures other than 
mummies, since they draw on the human pattern - 
except for poisons, which 
can work on anything with a body, although some supernatural creatures may 
have resistance. In theory, one could develop alchemical formulas to work on 
supernatural beings. This endeavor requires learning separate versions of each 
effect, and the alchemist performs them with an effective path rating of two less 
than usual. In addition, the Judges of Ma’at frown on aiding enemies of Balance 
with alchemical creations. 
FORMS OF THE ART 
The alchemist must decide on the form a product will take before 
beginning a preparation. Each form carries some advantages and drawbacks. 
Salve: A soft paste or lotion applied to the skin or surface of an object. 
The individual handling a salve must be careful not to touch it directly, or it 
affects her instead of the intended target. 
Essence: A volatile gas or liquid that evaporates quickly upon exposure 
to the air. The target must inhale it or be caught in its cloud. Many alchemists 
prepare essences as perfumes, smoke or incense. 
Potion: A liquid that the target must drink. The alchemist may mix it 
with something else, like wine, water or coffee, to mask its distinctive flavor; 
the target must make a Static Mental Challenge against the alchemist’s path 
rating to detect it. 
Powder: A dehydrated mixture combined with a liquid to create a 
potion, it is burned to create an essence or sprinkled onto something to reach 
the target. 
GOALS OF ALCHEMY 
Alchemy does not respect the laws of chemistry as understood by modem 
science. It works on substances in magical ways. For game purposes, each 
alchemical operation has at least one of the following goals: 
Identification: To understand a thing’s composition is to understand its 
strengths and weaknesses, and, therefore, to know how to command it. Alchemy 
can probe at things’ spiritual identities. 
Transmutation: The familiar goal of Alchemy in folklore; the reality as 
the Amenti practice it is substantially more complex. Particular processes may 
purify a substance, convert it into another, or produce a hybrid result combining 
properties of several components. 
Catalyzation: These processes use one substance to trigger changes in 
others, without itself being significantly changed. 
DETERMINING SUCCESS 
As noted above, Basic formulas take one hour to complete, Intermediate 
formulas take three hours, and Advanced formulas take five hours, which 
results in one dose of the preparation. Spend one additional Mental Trait per 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Divide the usual time by one, plus the number of Mental Traits spent, down a 
minimum of five minutes for Basic formulas, 15 minutes for Intermediate ones, 
or 45 minutes for Advanced ones. An alchemist who spends two Mental Traits 
could reduce a basic formula to (60/1+2) or 20 minutes, while an alchemist who 
spends three Mental Traits could reduce an Advanced formula to (300/1+3) or 
75 minutes. 
Any time an alchemist fails in a formula, make two Simple Tests. If both 
fail, there’s something covertly wrong with the results. The Storyteller decides 
on the precise nature of the botch, such as reversing healing or other harmful 
effects. Because Alchemy preparations have such a long shelf-life, it’s possible 
the alchemist may not realize there’s a bad batch sitting on the shelf. Storytellers 
are advised to keep track of bad batches (the better to make mischief with 
them). 
Alchemy efforts use the Occult Ability for retests unless otherwise noted. 
Poisons use Poisons for retest, while anything healing-related uses Medicine. 
The Attribute category is Mental, and any challenges are Static Mental, unless 
otherwise noted 
DURATION AND RESISTANCE 
The Egyptians divided the day into three four-hour toris or “seasons,” and 
applied this system to their alchemy and astrology. Alchemical preparations 
either create instant and permanent effects or last for one tori, or four hours. 
Multiple doses extend the duration rather than increasing the effect. 
A target who does not want to experience a preparation’s effect may make 
a Static Physical Challenge against the difficulty of the formula, plus one. 
BASIC ALCHEMY 
ANALYZE MATERIAL 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell is not exactly a full-blown magical operation as much as it is the 
practical application of the vast stores of chemical and magical information 
available to the Amenti. With a successful Mental Challenge and a few 
minutes of study, the alchemist can judge the general composition and age of 
an object under scrutiny, such as the age of a scroll or the durability of a wall. 
Spend an additional Mental Trait to gain increasingly detailed information 
about the object. 
BLOOD OF THE SNAKE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
This ritual is typically prepared as a potion or salve. Each dose defends 
against poisons for four hours. It can reduce the toxin rating of any poison in 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the-imbiber’s body (whether it’s already there or is introd 
antidote’s duration) by three. If the toxin rating is reduced to zero, the poison 
has no effect. If given within one turn of a poison taking effect, Blood of the 
Snake can restore health levels equal to the alchemist’s path rating. 
CLOUD OF SMOKE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
With this spell (and a successful Mental Challenge), the alchemist can 
cause any spark to belch a cloud of smoke of about 10 feet in diameter. The 
smoke is normal in all ways and causes everyone in the area (including the 
alchemist) to suffer penalties for blindness and breathing. This spell takes effect 
immediately. 
COBRA SPIT 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 1 
This ritual could be a poison, but is actually a nasty acid that causes one 
level of aggravateddamage per dose to anything it touches, with the exceptions 
of gold or glass. Against flesh, Cobru Spit can be disfiguring or cause permanent 
harm (such as blindness); it eats through almost anything nonliving. Wise 
alchemists usually store Cobra Spit in gold or glass vials. 
DEUNK OF SEVEN DAYS’ REST 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 4 
Sekhem: None 
This ritual is usually created as a potion, which relieves fatigue instantly 
when drunk. The drinker feels refreshed and alert for four hours, suffering no 
penalties for fatigue until it wears off. However, should the drink come from a 
bad batch, the imbiber suffers an excruciating migraine for the four hours, with 
a three-Trait penalty imposed on all challenges due to the symptoms (sensitivity 
to light and noise, nausea, etc.). 
ESSENCE OF LONGING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
This ritual is created as a perfume, which acts as a mild aphrodisiac on 
those who smell it. The wearer’s Social Traits increase by four Traits to those 
who are attracted to the user’s gender. Others may be uncomfortable with 
feelings they don’t understand or recognize. The best way to simulate the 
essence in a live setting is to apply some scented oil or perfume. Yes, this can 
work on same- or opposite-sex partners - it is based on the smeller’s 
preference. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


EYES OF THE KA 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
This salve is applied to the eyes and ears, and allows the user to see across 
the Shroud into Neter-khertet, or the Shadowlands. This vision is not a perfect 
one - 
the Shadowlands are a ghostly overlay on the living world, and sounds 
are distorted. Ghosts are so used to passing among the living that they may not 
realize they’re being observed. Eyes of the Ka retests with Thanatology. 
ICE OF THE DESERT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell lets the alchemist change a substance by one step - 
a soft solid 
to a liquid, a liquid to a gas, a gas to a liquid, a liquid to a solid. The spell alters 
one cubic foot per path rating for the usual duration, and the alchemist must 
touch the substance. The material may not interfere with a living creature (so 
the air in a person’s lungs cannot be affected), and it must be part of a single 
contiguous mass (all the water in a bowl). 
LESSER QUIDDITY 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
Alchemy teaches that each substance has spiritual properties as distinct 
and fundamental as its physical ones. Quiddity, the essence of a thing, responds 
to Sekhem. Once activated, quiddity can flow from one object to another, 
transferring some of the substance’s properties to the first person to touch it. 
The grant of spiritual nature lasts for up to one hour, and needs a successful 
Mental Challenge to activate. 
This spell works on the convictions of folklore. Its effects can provide an 
adjustment of one Trait, modify the difficulty of a type of challenge by one 
Trait, or alter health by one health level. While generally small, these effects 
matter a great deal in some situations, and the player and Storyteller must work 
together to define specific effects. 
Examples of common Lesser Quiddity benefits include using willow bark to 
reduce wound penalties by one, using a piece of moss to add one Trait to the 
target’s total for survival and orientation challenges, and using a piece of lion’s 
mane to give the target a bonus Trait on Social Challenges involving command 
or courage. The alchemist’s own culture’s folklore, the views and superstitions 
of the vicinity, and Egyptian tradition may all provide inspiration for specific 
applications of this spell. 
MILD POISON 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This ritual produces a level 2 lethal toxin (see p. 201). The poison takes 
effect the turn in which it is administered. If the poison coats a weapon, the 
poison damage applies in addition to the weapon's regular damage. The effect 
is permanent, but may be healed as normal. The alchemist may spend an 
additional Mental Trait to make the poison particularly hard to detect. 
Anyone attempting to notice the poison must win a Static Mental 
Challenge against the alchemist's Mental Trait total. Success lets the observer 
see the subtle coating, taste a peculiar additive to food, or whatever form it is 
the poison takes in this case. If the alchemist spent the additional Trait for 
concealment, add her Balance rating to her Mental Trait total for detection 
challenges. 
The judges frown deeply on the use of poison against anyone except 
Apophis' most hardened minions. 
POTION OF RESILIENCE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: None 
When applied to a wound, either the alchemist's own or that of someone 
else, this potioneases the pain anddistractions ofdamage. The target suffers the 
wound penalties of two levels higher, so that a Mauled character would suffer 
a one-Trait penalty rather than two Traits, and so on. A target at Incapacitated 
can act as if Mauled. Note that the wounds themselves must heal as usual: The 
Potion of Resilience deals with some of their consequences but does not cure 
them. 
REED OF HIDDEN CURRENTS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell empowers a piece of hay, straw or grass to function as a sort of 
alchemical litmus test. The alchemist enchants the piece with the power to 
detect a specific substance, such as iron, water or silver, and tosses the piece into 
the air or rests it on the surface of a liquid. If the spell (and the Mental Challenge) 
succeeds, the reed points toward the nearest detectable quantity of the specified 
substance, up to a range of one mile if the mummy knows only Basic Alchemy, 
three miles if he knows Intermediate Alchemy, or five miles if he knows Advanced 
Akhemy. The reed continues to point for one hour, plus one hour for each 
additional Mental Trait the alchemist spends when enchanting it. 
SIMPLE ELIXIR 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: None 
This ritual is actually a set of related ones, eachofwhich an alchemist must 
learn separately. Each of them lets the alchemist prepare a potion (or other 
alchemical form) that adds one Trait to a particular category for four hours. The 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


alchemist must learn each sort of preparation separately - 
one for Strength- 
related Traits, one for Appearance-related Traits, and so on. The resulting 
elixir is usually, but not always, a potion; potions are generally utilized because 
they can ensure that the effect goes to the target and no one else. 
SIMPLE PHILTRE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
Philtres are the stuff of folklore -wine that binds two people as lovers or 
drives them into hatred, a draught that puts courage in a man or robs him of it. 
A philtre can flood the imbiber with a particular emotion - 
love, courage, 
hate, fear, etc. Each type of philtre must be learned separately. The drinker is 
one Trait down in any test to resist circumstances relating to the philtre's 
effects, such as the drinker of a love potion attempting to resist a Social 
Challenge to seduce him. 
SIMPLE TONIC 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
A tonic is meant to heal damage, whether as a potion or salve. It restores 
one health level of bashing or lethal damage. The effect is permanent. 
SPARKOF RA 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
With a few words, a successful Mental Challenge and some nonliving 
flammable material (paper, clothing, wood), the alchemist can spark a fire. The 
size of the fire depends on the amount of fuel available and how many Mental 
Traits the alchemist wishes to add to the effort. Those caught by the flames are 
burned as normal - 
fire inflicts aggravated damage. 
STASIS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell causes a nonliving thing to become resistant to outside changes. 
Stasis works only on asingle piece no greater than the Amenti's own body mass, 
and adds one bonus Trait per path rating to resist outside efforts to act on it. A 
piece of wood becomes harder to bum, or a stone statue is less affected by 
vandals. The effect lasts for one scene and uses a Mental Challenge 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


INTERMEDIATE ALCHEMY 
ASHES TO ASHES 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
This spell is a more powerful version of Ice of the Desert. Any human-sized 
portion of material the alchemist touches may be changed instantly and 
permanently. The change must be something that can occur in nature - 
stones turn to dust, wood turns to ash, corpses become tomb dust, and so on. 
This requires a Mental Challenge. 
COMPLEX ELIXIR 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 1 
Complex Elixir is simply a more powerful version of the Simple Elixir, except 
that it can add two Traits to a category for the duration. In all other respects, 
it is no different than Simple Elixir. 
COMPLEX PHILTRE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 1 
Complex Philtre is more powerful than its simple-version cousin. It bestows 
a two-Trait penalty to resist challenges relating to the philtre’s effects, but 
otherwise acts like Simple Philtre. 
COMPLEX TONIC 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 1 
A Complex Tonic can heat three levels of bashing or lethal damage from 
disease or injury, but otherwise acts like Simple Tonic. 
DANGEROUS POISON 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 1 
ADungerous Poison creates a brew with a level 5 toxin rating per dose. This 
level of Alchemy represents not only the knowledge of creating poisons, but 
also the means of delivery and concealment. Even if the subject manages to 
resist the poison’s effects, he still suffers a level of bashing damage. Dangerous 
Poison otherwise functions like Mild Poison. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


GREATER QUIDDITY 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This spell bestows the same effect as Lesser Quiddity, but the shared 
mystical properties are stronger. It can make an Attribute adjustment by three 
Traits, modify the difficulty of a challenge by three Traits, or alter health by 
three health levels. A successful Mental Challenge is necessary for this spell. 
ONE-HUNDRED-THOUSAND TONGUES 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
This potion enables the imbiber to speak and understand any spoken 
language for four hours. If prepared as a salve, it can be applied to the ears and 
mouth for the same effect, or to the hands and eyes to allow use and 
comprehension of Braille or sign language. This unusual brew uses Linguistics 
for its retests. 
PANACEA 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 4 
This ritual produces a potion that can cure any illness with a toxin rating 
up to the sum of the alchemist’s Medicine and Alchemy Traits. It does not heal 
any wounds caused by the illness, just the disease itself. 
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 9 
Sekhem: 3 
This preparation creates a powder that congeals into a solid pebblelike 
form. When applied to a base metal, a dose glows briefly and transforms up to 
two ounces of the metal to pure gold or silver. The change is permanent, and 
the dose dissipates. 
POTION OF THE SEPARABLE KA 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 3 
This potion puts the user into a trance in which her soul can separate itself 
from the body and travel astrally. No longer confined to the physical plane, the 
mummy can project her senses and awareness outside of her body. Her 
consciousness roams various planes of thought, allowing her to view areas all 
over the world as an incorporeal spirit. Without the concerns of mass and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of thought to any place on Earth, under the orbit of the moon. 
While under the effects of the potion, the khat lies in a comatose state, 
unaware of its surroundings. The ka does not tire from travel, nor is it hindered 
or injured by the material world. However, the kacanstill sense its surroundings 
normally, and even use powers that function in h a t .  The ka remains tied to 
the khat through the khu- a sort of psychic tether that keeps the mummy from 
becoming lost in the realms of spirit. 
By expending a Willpower Trait, the mummy can manifest for a single turn 
as an intangible apparition, allowing her to be seen and to speak audibly. While 
visible, the mummy appears as an idealized form of herself, complete with 
projected trappings, though real-world physical possessions do not travel in spirit 
form. Even while visible, the ka is intangible and thus immune to injury from 
conventional sources like claws, fire, sunlight and mundane weapons (although 
the khat can still be harmed). The ka may not possess other bodies in this form, 
even if it has spells and rituals that would otherwise allow it to do so. 
The mummy may deal normally with other astral forms that she encounters. 
She may even attempt to injure other astral travelers by attacking their khu 
(which appears as a silver cord). Such astral combat uses Mental Challenges, 
with damage causing the opponent to lose Willpower Traits. Once an astral 
combatant runs out of Willpower Traits, his silver cord snaps, stranding him in 
the spirit realms. From there, the spirit may accidentally wander deeper into 
other worlds, or he may stumble about until he finds a way to return to his body. 
Some spirits thus trapped never return, as they are captured or devoured by 
monstrous entities that now prowl h a t  in the wake of the Dja-akh. 
The spirit can travel only in the Shadowlands with this ritual. If the user’s 
consciousness is still out of her body when the potion wears off, the khu pulls 
her back at once, and she must make a Physical Challenge to avoid a level of 
bashing damage from shock. 
POTION OF VALOR 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 1 
This preparation is a more powerful form of the Potion of Resilience, 
reducing wound penalties by four levels instead of two. It also gives the user two 
temporary health levels below Incapacitated, which postpone death and allow 
her limited mobility. This extra resilience lasts only until the potion wears off. 
SALTS OF THE DEAD 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell draws on the Egyptian traditions for preparing corpses to resist 
harm. The alchemist touches a bit of salt and speaks a few protective words. 
With a successful Mental Challenge, for one turn per Balance Trait, he can 
ignore any damage that affects only the living -poison gas, for instance, but 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


not stab wounds. All damage the alchemist suffers while the spell lasts is 
reduced by one health level, to a minimum of one level per wound. The salt 
used in this spell blackens and becomes useless for any other purpose when the 
spell takes effect. 
TEARS OF ISIS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 2, plus amount invested 
This ritual lets the alchemist create potions that store Sekhem for future 
use. Decide the amount of Sekhem that the potion should hold, and spend that 
along with the two Sekhem that the ritual itself requires. Success stores the 
amount spent for storage. Consuming the potion gives the drinker all of the 
stored temporary Sekhem Traits, even if it raises his curtent score above his 
usual maximum. These added Traits are always spent first, and any that remain 
unspent when the potion wears off are lost. An individual may derive benefit 
from just one Tears of Isis potion at a time. 
ADVANCED ALCHEMY 
CATALYST CRUCIBLE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: Special 
This spell transforms the alchemist's body into a living catalyst. Any 
substance he touches or consumes can become transformed into any preparation 
he knows how to make. He can only make one dose of one preparation per use 
of this spell, and must spend the Sekhem the transformation normally requites. 
The spell itself takes effect immediately, as does the transformation, so that (for 
instance) a mummy who's subjected to a Deadly Poison could cast Catalyst 
Crucible and transform it into a Simple Tonic before it kills him. This spell 
requires a Mental Challenge. 
DEADLY POISON 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 2 
This preparation creates a poison with a lethal toxin rating of 7 per dose. 
The subject suffers three levels of bashing damage even with a successful 
challenge to resist it. The alchemist may spend two additional Sekhem to make 
the poison inflict aggravated damage. In other regards, this formula works like 
Mild Poison. 
DUST TO DUST 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 + potential level of damage 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.. . 
With this spell, the mummy returns her target to the eart 
life is said to spring. First she touches her target (which may require a Physical 
Challenge), then she spends the Sekhemrequired for the spell. Next she spends 
an additional amount of Sekhem equal to the amount of damage she hopes to 
inflict, and makes a Mental Challenge. Success grants her one level of 
aggravated damage for each Sekhem she spent for damage. The spell also 
transmutes wounded flesh into blacksoil. This unusual spell calls for Thanatology 
for any retests. 
FLESH OF THE GODS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
The alchemist applies gold dust to her flesh (or another’s) and whispers 
prayers to achieve a divine state, then makes a Mental Challenge - 
with 
success, her flesh and spirit absorb the gold’s essence, gaining magical protection 
for one scene. Success grants her three retests for Social Challenges (the second 
results stand, whether or not they improve on the first). Any retests she does 
not use disappear as do the gold flakes from her skin at the end of the scene. This 
spell calls for Thanatology for its retests. 
POTENT ELIXIR 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 
The Potent Elixir is significantly more powerful than its lower-powered 
versions. The elixir can grant three Traits to any Attribute sub-category (i.e., 
Strength, Appearance, Wits). 
POTENT PHILTRE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 
Potent Philtre works exactly like its counterparts, except it adds a three- 
Trait penalty to resist challenges to its effects. 
POTENT TONIC 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 
Potent Tonic indeed lives up to its name, healing up to five levels of bashing 
or lethal damage, but otherwise works like Simple Tonic. 
POTION OF THE DIVINE 
Type: Ritual 
Traits: 6 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Sekhem: 3 
This ritual is a stronger version of the Intermediate Alchemy ritual Potion 
ofValor. The user of the Potion ofthe Divine suffers no wound penalties whatever 
her level of injury, and receives three temporary health levels below Incapacitated 
to forestall death and allow limited mobility. She can still die if she suffers 
enough damage to work through all those levels, and whatever wounds she 
incurs take full effect when the potion wears off. Anyone severely damaged 
must receive medical attention (normal or magical) before then to avoid 
immediate death when the potion’s benefits expire. 
POTION OF THE Y ILE BODY 
Type: Ritual 
Traits: 7 
Sekhem: 5 
This ritual produces a potion that immunizes the user against all forms of 
poison and transforms her body’s fluids into toxins. The target’s excreted bodily 
fluids all act as contact poisons of lethal toxin rating 5. She can spit venomous 
saliva, cry poisonous tears, and even exhale poison gas that requires a victim 
within a yard to make a Physical Challenge or suffer one level of bashing 
damage. These fluids inflict two levels of damage automatically on nonliving 
materials. 
Any vampire who drinks the user’s blood takes two levels of aggravated 
damage per Blood Trait. Anyone who cuts or stabs the user must make a 
Physical Challenge against the user to avoid taking as many levels of lethal 
damage as he inflicted. An attacker who draws blood with natural weapons like 
claws or teeth takes this damage automatically, and material weapons 
automatically corrode. 
The ritual lets the user summon up five “doses” of venom - 
one dose is 
enough fluid to inflict damage. Unspent doses are lost; the defensive effects of 
this ritual continue to apply even after all the doses are used up, until the 
potion’s four-hour duration ends. 
AMULETS 
An amulet can be any small magical item: a piece of jewelry, a charmed 
coin or other token, a slip of paper or papyrus inscribed with a spell, even a 
symbol painted on one’s body. The magic of Hekau doesn’t make the amulet 
any more durable than usual, so the crafter must consider how long she expects 
it to remain in use. 
First make a Static Physical Challenge against five Traits to make the item 
itself, retesting withcrafts. The time it takes to inscribe the symbols determines 
how long it takes to complete the process. Symbols painted on skin require five 
minutes for Basic effects, 15 minutes for Intermediate effects, or 25 minutes for 
Advanced effects; the results last only until they’re washed off. More permanent 
effects (such as physical items) take one day for Basic effects, three days for 
Intermediate effects, or five days for Advanced effects, with breaks only to 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


sleep, eat and meditate to recover Sekhem. The artisan does not need to craft 
the item to be enchanted himself, though it’s customary to do so. 
Once it’s inscribed, the amulet retains its enchantment for (Balance + 
Amukts path rating) months. The artisan may repeat the initial challenge to 
extend the effect; this requires only as long as painting on symbols would, but 
the full Sekhem cost must still be paid. If the enchantment lapses, the entire 
ritual must be performed again. 
Observers may make a Mental Challenge (retest with Awareness) to 
notice a slight mystical aura around the wearer of an amulet. Observers with the 
Occult Ability may make a Mental Challenge to discover the item’s purpose or 
general power level. If the amulet is designed to protect the wearer against 
scrying, the effect extends to anything on her person, including the amulet 
itself. 
Wearing an amulet generally suffices to get the benefits of it. The 
alchemist may choose to personalize it with the appropriate rituals described 
below. Unless otherwise noted, amulets work for any natural-living creature 
and for mummies, but not for other supernatural beings or non-corporeal 
entities. 
Amulets in use, unless otherwise specified, retest with Occult. Their 
creation requires a Static Physical Challenge (unless otherwise specified), and 
their Attribute category is Physical. 
WARDS 
Wards make it more difficult to damage the wearer. Add the crafter’s path 
rating to the wearer’s Trait total for defensive purposes. When an effect aimed 
at the wearer has variable benefits based on Traits spent, each level of the ward 
rating negates one Trait spent. The wearer may load up with all the amulets he 
likes, but only one applies a defensive benefit in any particular challenge. 
DESTROYING AN AMULET 
One level of bashing or lethal damage breaks an amulet made of glass or 
plastic. Two levels break an amulet of wood or bone. Three levels destroy one 
made of metal or stone. One level of aggravated damage destroys any amulet. 
The attack must target the amulet specifically, which means that the 
attacker must know that the amulet is there and that it’s worth attacking. 
BASIC AMULETS 
AMULET OF CLOUD WALKING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 12 
This amulet lifts the wearer up to the level of clouds, or where clouds would 
be if the sky is clear at the moment, and allows him to walk through the air. 
Cloud heights vary depending on local conditions, but 10,000 feet above sea 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


level is common. Here the air is thin, but still dense enough to allow safe 
breathing. 
Ascending to the clouds takes a few minutes. Walking at that level 
proceeds at about normal speed. Once the wearer reaches his destination, he 
sinks gently to the ground and the amulet deactivates. 
Anyone can wear and use the amulet once it’s activated, though only an 
artisan who understands the Amulets Hekau can activate it, by holding it 
between her hands and making a Social Challenge. (This can work even when 
someone else is currently wearing the amulet). The same requirements apply 
to efforts to deactivate the amulet while it’s in use - 
which leave the wearer 
falling. 
ASHEN SHROUD 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
The artisan chants the appropriate words of power while applying dirt or 
ash to his face, and he takes on a deathlike appearance with a successful 
Physical Challenge. He resembles the archetypal walking dead, incapable of 
life but moving nonetheless. All mortals who see him are subject to confused 
panic, as per the Veil. This spell has no effect on other supernatural beings, and 
calls on Thanatology for its retests. 
EYES OF THE HORIZON 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell links the image of an eye to the artisan’s own senses. The eye can 
be anything from a painting on a tomb wall to a plastic doll’s eye or an eye 
sketched on a napkin. After creating the eye and making a successful Physical 
Challenge, the artisan can see what that eye sees as easily as with his own until 
the next sunset, as long as he’s within the curve of the horizon (about 12 miles 
at sea level). Moving farther away breaks the spell. 
LESSER TALISMAN 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 8 
A Lesser Talisman gives the wearer one bonus Trait in one of the Attribute 
categories as long as she wears it. This boost is not cumulative with any other 
Hekau effects; only the strongest enhancement applies. The artisan must learn 
a separate ritual for each Attribute. This ritual retests with Crafts. 
LESSER WARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 10 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Path Rating: 2 
A Lesser Ward provides a ward rating of two, and is otherwise identical to 
a Simple Ward. Note that an artisan must first learn to make Simple Wards before 
acquiring this ritual. Lesser Ward retests with Crafts. 
PRAYER OF THE AKEN 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
Aken are the Egyptian boatmen who assist Anubis in directing the dead 
to their proper places in the Underworld. A mummy who utters this prayer and 
makes a successful Mental Challenge while in h a t  summons one of the 
surviving Aken to his side; it protects him from harm and transports him to an 
appropriate destination in the Underworld. The Aken arrives sometime within 
the next couple of hours, depending on the conditions in that part of the 
Underworld; the artisan may spend a Mental Trait to guarantee an arrival 
within (15 minus Balance) minutes. The artisan must have a written copy of 
this prayer available, either on his person or somewhere he can see it, including 
across the Shroud in a tomb, on a card in his corpse's position, and so on. 
SCARAB OF LIFE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 10 
A living person wearing a Scarab of Life gains a ward rating of two against 
anything that would reduce her Physical Traits. When placed on a mummy's 
corpse, the amulet gives the mummy three bonus Traits for the resurrection 
challenge. This ritual retests with Thanatology. 
SIMPLE WARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 5 
This ritual is actually a set of similar rituals, each of which the artisan must 
learn separately. Each protects the wearer from a particular kind of harm, or 
shielding particular parts of the body; others resist a particular type of magic. 
Common examples include the following: 
Heart (ab): This ward protects the heart. Since ancient Egyptians 
regarded the heart as the seat of consciousness, it protects both the physical 
organ and the mind against illusions, efforts at mental control, and the like. 
Name (ren): This ward repels Nomenclature Hekau that affects the user 
through her true name; it is always attuned to a single user. 
Eye of Horus (udjat): This ward repels magic that affects the user's health, 
including poisons and spells that harm the body as a whole. 
Storytellers and players are encouraged to work together to develop more 
such wards. Simple Ward retests with Crafts. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


" 
. . 
,  " . .-,, 
- 
. .  . .  
WARDING SIGN 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
Some wards have no physical component beyond a gesture. They don't last 
long, but they can be useful nonetheless. This ward is one such, to guard against 
bad luck. If the Physical Challenge succeeds, the user can make a single retest 
on one failed challenge and choose which results stand. An individual may 
only have one Warding Sign active at a time, and it lasts for one hour. 
WOOD WARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 10 
An amulet made with this ritual protects the wearer from all wooden 
objects. They bounce off his skin, or shatter if particularly fragile. The wearer 
automatically negates one level of bashing or lethal damage from wooden 
objects if the maker has Basic Amukts, three levels if the maker knows 
Intermediate Amulets, or five levels if the maker knows Advanced Amukts. 
The same bonus applies to levels of damage the wearer inflicts on wooden 
objects when smashing them with his hands or body. Note that this applies 
even to casual contact, which means that nothing wood is safe around the 
wearer. Nature-spirits often regard the use of this amulet as a hostile act. This 
ritual retests with Crafts. 
INTERMEDIATE AMULETS 
EBON BINDING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 15 
This ritual enchants a length of bandage, which, when wrapped around a 
body, prevents the soul from entering or departing. If the soul is currently 
within the khat, it cannot leave; if the soul is currently departed, it cannot 
return. The binding lasts as long as the bandage remains in place. This ritual 
retests with Thanatology. 
EYE OF SEKHMET 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This spell invokes the goddess Sekhmet, who served as the instrument by 
which Ra's enemies were destroyed. The artisan traces the symbol of the eye of 
justice over his own eye and casts the spell (along with a Physical Challenge), 
and can afflict a target with Sekhmet's judgment. The victim suffers a two-Trait 
penalty to all challenges and heals more slowly- as if he were two levels more 
seriously wounded if the victim is mortal, or requiring twice the usual time and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


effort to regain health levels if the victim is supernatural. The spell lasts for one 
hour, or longer if the artisan spends Mental Traits: one day with one additional 
Trait, one week with two additional Traits, one month with three additional 
Traits, or six months with four additional Traits. 
GEB’S BLESSING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 50 
This ritual calls on Geb, father of Osiris, for protection from the natural 
elements. The amulet protects its wearer from rain, sleet, hail, extremes of 
temperature and the like. The only natural forces that can harm the wearer are 
those that deliver aggravated damage, like lightning and lava. This protection 
also applies to natural weather effects created magically or artificially. The 
wearer does have to deal with the secondary problems of hostile natural forces: 
a landslide or a flash flood won’t kill him outright, but they can bury him and 
require him to dig his way out. And while he won’t die of sunstroke in the 
desert, his body continues to need water as usual. The wearer gets bonus Traits 
on survival-related challenges based on the artisan’s Amulets Hekau rating: 
three bonus Traits if the maker knows Intermediate Amulets, or five if the 
maker knows Advanced Amulets. The wearer can therefore dig out of a 
landslide, stay afloat in raging torrents, and persist despite thirst more easily, 
and so on. This powerful amulet requires Survival for its retests. 
GREATER TALISMAN 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 30 
A Greater Talisman gives its wearer two bonus Traits in one Attribute 
category, and others function just like a Lesser Talisman. It requires Crafts for 
retests. 
GREATER VEIL OF AMAUNET 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 50 
Path Rating: 4 
The Greater Veil of Amaunet functions like the Veil ofAmaunet (which the 
artisan must first learn how to make) but more powerfully. It makes the wearer 
undetectable to the senses of any living being (all physical senses - 
smell, 
taste, sight, touch, hearing -whether or not they’re supernaturally enhanced), 
and to the senses of beings like vampires in unlife or mockery of life. The 
Greater Veil does not affect the walking dead or non-corporeal entities, nor does 
it interfere with powers that pierce invisibility. In all other respects, it works 
like the Veil of Amaunet. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


GREATER WARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 40 
Path Rating: 4 
A Greater Ward provides a ward rating of 4, and is otherwise identical to 
a Simple Ward. Note that this is only available to those who have learned to 
make Major Wards. Greater Ward uses Crafts in its retests. 
MAJORWARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 18 
Major Wa~ds 
behave just like Minor Wards except that they provide award 
rating of 3. They require Crafts for retests during their creation. 
METAL WARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 18 
This ritual creates an amulet similar to the Wood Ward. Metal objects 
touching the wearer become soft, pliable or crumbly. The wearer automatically 
negates three levels of bashing or lethal damage from metal objects if the 
creator knows Intermediate Amulets, or five levels if the creator knows 
Advanced Amulets. The wearer gains the same number of additional Strength- 
relatedTraits for challenges involving deflecting, harming or otherwise dealing 
with metal objects through direct physical forces. As with Wood Ward, this 
applies even to casual contact. Small pieces of metal, like coins and zippers 
separated by clothing from the wearer, vibrate uncomfortably. Nature-spirits 
often find this ward as unfriendly as the Wood Ward. This ritual requires Crafts 
for retests during its making. 
SIGN OF LUCK 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell draws on countless small superstitious conventions to improve 
one’s fortune. With a successful Physical Challenge, the wearer gains a bonus 
Trait to use in a single challenge however he likes (comparing on ties, spent on 
an overbid, etc.), sometime within the next hour. An individual may only 
benefit from one application of this spell at a time. 
VEIL OF AMAUNET 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 20 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This amulet calls on Amaunet, the goddess of invisibility. It makes the 
wearer undetectable to all senses that animals possess. Supernatural creatures 
may make a Mental Challenge to notice a dim haze, if they have the benefit of 
supernaturally heightened senses. The wearer must concentrate for one turn 
and make a Mental Challenge to activate the amulet; it remains active for one 
hour. Anyone who knows Amukts Hekau may touch the amulet and make the 
same challenge to activate or deactivate it. 
WRAPPINGS OF IMHOTEP 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell enchants bandages or other coverings that can be applied to 
wounds, from sterile dressings to paper towels, with a successful Physical 
Challenge. The bandages heal one level of lethal damage or two levels of 
bashing damage per Balance Trait that the artisan possesses. As long as the 
bandages remain on the wound, the target heals as if the wound were one level 
less severe. Separate bandages may be applied to multiple wounds, but they do 
not increase the healing bonus any further. The healing bonus does apply to 
aggravated damage, though the bandages do not immediately heal such 
damage. The bandages lose their enchantment upon being changed or when 
someone tries to reuse them. The Wrappings of Imhotep call for Medicine to be 
used in their creation. 
ADVANCED AMULETS 
BUCKLE OF ISIS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 80 
This ritual produces an amulet in the shape of an ankh, or rather in the 
sandal-strap shape that inspired the ankh. The buckle protects its wearer with 
a ward rating of 5 against all hostile magic, whether Hekau, hedge or Sphere 
magic of living mages, vampiric Thaumaturgy or other sources. The amulet 
itself is physically fragile and easily damaged. 
PRINCELY TALISMAN 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 75 
A Princely Talisman behaves like a Lesser Talisman except that it grants 
three bonus Traits in one Attribute category. Crafts is necessary for retests in 
its creation. 
PRINCELY WARD 
Type: Ritual 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 80 
A Princely Ward behaves like a Simple Ward except that it provides a ward 
rating of 5. It uses Crafts for its retest. 
SCARAB OF DEATH 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 50 
This ritual protects an amulet which, although itself physical, protects the 
wearer’s soul while in the spirit world. Any damage that the spirit suffers is 
redirected to the wearer’s physical body. No other amulets provide protection 
for the spirit, but they reduce damage to the body as usual; a careful mummy can 
arrange to withstand a great deal of damage. Once the body reaches Dust, 
attacks on the soul deal normal damage directly. The Scarab uses Crafts in 
retests. 
WARD OF PERMANENCE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 100 + relevant ritual 
The artisan inscribes this ward on an amulet to make its effect permanent. 
The Ward of Permanence usually goes on the reverse side of the amulet when 
the artisan creates or reinfuses some other ritual. Add the time and costs of the 
Ward of Pemnence to those of the other ritual to determine the total 
requirements, Unless the amulet is physically destroyed, the ritual secured with 
this ward remains in effect for all eternity. 
The amulet can also absorb physical damage based on the path rating of 
the primary ritual. The amulet can neutralize, each hour, one level of damage 
if the primary ritual is Basic, three levels if Intermediate, or five if Advanced. 
This applies only to damage directed at the amulet; the wearer is on her own. 
Most ofthe handful ofartifacts surviving fromEgyptiandynastic times owe 
their preservation to this ritual. This ritual uses Crafts during retests. 
WRAPPINGS OF OSIRIS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This spell is a more powerful version of the Wrappings oflmhotep, drawing 
on Osiris’ greater power over life and death. With a successful Physical 
Challenge to enchant the bandages, the wrappings heal one level of damage per 
success. This does include aggravated damage, which the spell heals first. As 
long as the wrapping remains in place, the injury heals as if it were three levels 
less severe. The Wrappings use Medicine in their creation. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CELESTIAL 
All heavenly bodies have significance in Egyptian magic, and they all 
interact in complex ways. Magic drawing on their power can affect great areas, 
as described below. In some ways, this Hekau has wider-ranging consequences 
than any other single art, short of archmages’ mastery of Sphere power. 
Celestial rituals requires one hour for Basic effects, three hours for 
Intermediate effects, and five hours for Advanced effects. The mummy can 
perform it anywhere there’s a modicum of quiet; these rituals call for no 
laboratory or elaborate props. Celestial spells generally work within five 
minutes of casting. 
Celestial magic generally retests with Occult, unless specified otherwise, 
rituals use Static Mental Challenges, and the Attribute category is Mental. 
ROLEPLAY ING WEATHER 
Celestial magic is easy to abuse. Storytellers must keep careful track of 
changes unleashed with it, particularly when two or more groups share a 
common chronicle background. The Storyteller should reward detailed, nuanced 
descriptions, and players who say “it’s windy” may find that they don’t get 
everything they want. Note too that it takes time for conditions to change, 
giving warning to most people in the vicinity, and that it takes time for 
preexisting conditions to return. Though unnatural in origin, once they’re 
there, the effects of weather magic behave as if they had arisen naturally. 
BASIC CELESTIAL 
BASIC WEATHER MAGIC 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Varies 
Sekhem: Varies 
This ritual lets the celestine conjure small, sudden disturbances in the 
local weather. These changes aren’t strong enough to inflict damage, but they 
can make an area more or less comfortable. Assuming the mummy starts with 
a typical summer day in a temperate climate - 
mid-80s F, mild humidity, 
negligible cloud cover over a small village - 
some effects could include: 
Fog - 
A low-lying cloud that has settled to Earth, impairing sight and 
muffling sound. It can interfere with ranged attacks and sight beyond 100 yards 
(more if the Storyteller deems appropriate). 
Light breeze - 
A gentle wind just strong enough to ruffle hair and 
dissipate odors. 
Minor temperature change - A slight shift in the local ambient 
temperature, no more than 10 degrees up or down. 
For more variations and effects, see the weather chart. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ise. She may make an additional Mental Challenge to pierce 
supernatural concealment. The Book of Thoth retests with Divination. 
GRIP THE WATER 
Type: Ritual 
Traits: 6 
Sekhem: 2 
The mummy moves her hands in concentric circles over a body of water 
and makes it rise or fall as if lifted by the tide. Ponds and streams rise a few feet, 
while the change in an ocean is usually imperceptible to the human eye. This 
change can move water into new channels, with corresponding consequences. 
While it can’t create effects like a flood of Biblical proportions or parting the 
Red Sea, Grip the Water can cause a dam to overflow, irrigation canals to flood 
low-lying terrain or drown crops) or possibly change the course of a river. The 
Storyteller shouldn’t downplay it - 
this is a powerful and simple transformation. 
HANGING THE STARS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Varies 
Sekhem: Special 
This ritual lets a mummy hold some other ritual in abeyance, tuned to 
celestial events and waiting for its trigger. First perform this ritual with a 
difficulty equal to that of the “hung” ritual, along with spending any Sekhem. 
If Hanging the Stars succeeds, a delay of up to one day per success can be applied 
to whatever ritual the mummy goes on to perform next. Activating the hung 
ritual requires spending one Sekhem and making a Mental Challenge. Success 
activates the delayed Hekau that turn as if it were a standard one-turn spell 
effect; failure dissipates it without result. 
The mummy may delay any ritual he knows, but only one at a time. 
Hanging the Stars must be performed in full view of the sky, at any hour of the 
day or night. 
HIDING THE STARS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: None 
This spell hides the mummy from celestial forces. Add the celestine’s 
Balance Traits to the difficulty of any challenge attempting to locate the target 
or analyze it by divination. Hiding the Stars can also conceal a chosen target, 
although the target must be present during the whole ritual. A target is 
protected by only one working of this ritual at a time; the most recent result 
always applies. Efforts to divine the mummy or other target’s whereabouts 
erode this, however - 
after three attempted divinations or the end of four 
hours (whichever comes first), the protective veil is lifted and scryings against 
the mummy or other target proceed as normal. This ritual retests with the 
Divination Ability. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


&AD THE STARS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Special 
Sekhem: None 
This ritual lets the celestine gain insights from the heavens into others’ 
secrets and auspicious aspects of the current situation. After succeeding in a 
Read the Stars challenge, make a Static Mentalchallenge (retest withDivination) 
against the difficulty of any other one Hekau effect. If this second challenge 
succeeds, the celestine gains one bonus Trait, plus an additional bonus Trait per 
Mental Trait spent, for use in attempting that effect. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, the stars may also indicate a particular time or place at which to 
attempt the other effect, and if the celestine goes there, he enjoys an additional 
bonus Trait for the relevant challenge. Favored places and times should relate 
to the mood of the effect - 
a library for a search for wisdom, for instance, or 
the new moon in agraveyardfor an effect relating to death and the Underworld. 
If either the Read the Stars challenge or the ensuing challenge fails, make 
two Simple Tests. If both fail, the mummy gravely misinterprets the omens, and 
suffers a one-Trait penalty on the target Hekau effect. Read the Stars retests with 
the Divination Ability. 
SAHU-RA 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell gives the celestine the mantle of Ra, the sun god, full of radiant 
impressiveness, with a successful Social Challenge. The celestine using the 
Sahu-Ra glows with the radiance of soft, natural sunlight for one turn, plus an 
additional turn per Social Trait spent. This light extends only a few feet from 
the mummy and functions like normal sunlight - 
illuminating dark places, 
injuring vampires, and so on. (Vampires suffer one level of aggravated damage 
for each turn that they’re caught within the radiance.) 
WEATHER SIGHT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell lets the mummy understand the weather’s developing conditions, 
and thereby accurately predicts its future changes over the next few days, up to 
one day per Balance Trait. In addition, the mummy can draw on the wind’s 
impressions of the world passing by. A successful Mental Challenge gives the 
mummy a general sense of the terrain and evidence of approaching individuals. 
By spending an additional Mental Trait, the mummy can learn the distance 
and number of targets and get a detailed sense of the intervening land between 
them. By spending two additional Mental Traits, the mummy can learn the 
genders and the carried equipment of those approaching. This spell cannot 
work downwind, though other weather magic can shift the wind to a useful 
direction. This spell retests with Divination. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


WEATHER WHISPERS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell does for sound what Weather Sight does for images. With a 
successful Mental Challenge, the mummy (and the mummy alone) hears 
voices carried on the wind sorted into conversations. An additional Mental 
Challenge lets him make sense out of the distinct exchanges, along with 
background mumbles and extraneous noise; spend a second Mental Trait to 
resolve jumbled and fragmentary interactions as well. This effect covers a small 
area and lasts for one hour. This spell only carries sounds from upwind, 
although other weather magic can shift the wind’s direction. Weather Whispers 
retests with Divination. 
INTERMEDIATE CELESTIAL 
CALL THE STARS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 
The celestine calls on celestial forces, invoking the goddess Nuit for divine 
intervention. At the conclusion of the ritual, if successful, meteors fall. They 
are golf-ball sized, but move rapidly, doing one level of aggravateddamage each 
turn to anyone in the area. The fall can cover any area up to the size of a small 
town, at the celestine’s preference, and lasts for one minute per Balance Trait. 
In addition to inflicting aggravated damage on anyone or anything unlucky 
enough to be caught in the storm, the meteors can start fires, shatter fragile 
objects and damage others. 
DIVINE FORMS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The celestine composes a short prayer to any one deity of the Egyptian 
pantheon, inviting him, her or it to manifest within herself. (Scholars argue as 
to whether the answering force is actually divine or not, but the effects work 
the same, regardless of what any given mummy thinks about it.) The mummy 
takes on some key feature of the petitioned god, adding one bonus Trait to a 
relevant Attribute (or two, if she spends an additional Mental Trait). Geb, the 
god of the earth, might raise the mummy’s Stamina-related total, while Hathor 
might raise Dexterity or Charisma. (See p. XX for a description of major 
Egyptian deities.) The effect lasts for one hour and is not cumulative - 
only 
one bonus of this sort may apply, and only the strongest enhancing Hekau of 
all available possible additions applies. Divine Forms uses Meditation for its 
retests. 
INTERMEDIATE WEATHER MAGIC 
Type: Ritual 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.
A
” Difficulty: Special 
Sekhem: Special 
The practitioner of lntewnediate Weather Magic can command dramatic 
anddangerous changes in the weather, as well as prolonging existing conditions. 
See the chart on p. 143 for the full range of possibilities. Common applications 
include: 
Desert wind - 
A dry, searing wind with gusts up to 60 miles per hour, 
which can interfere with any ranged attacks, kick up debris that causes vision 
penalties, and cause people to have trouble standing up. 
Driving rains - 
They interfere with driving or Perception-related 
challenges. 
Lightning strikes - 
Each bolt inflicts 10 levels of lethal damage on a 
strike, and five levels of lethal damage on anything within one yard. 
Snowstorm - 
Besides risking penalties on things like visual challenges 
or driving, anyone caught in the elements suffers one level of bashing damage 
each hour from the cold. 
Thunderstorm -As with snowstorm, but without the risk of frostbite 
and other cold-related effects. 
RA’S AWAKENING 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
The experience of greeting the rising sun is a potent one for mummies. 
This spell lets the celestine re-create it in up to five people within her line of 
sight. She waves one hand in a rising arc (followed with a Mental Challenge), 
and if the spell succeeds, each of her chosen targets feels a growing warmth as 
if dawn were creeping up on her. Fatigue flees living beings, as if they’d had a 
full night’s sleep. For the next hour, the targets receive a one-Trait bonus on 
all mental tasks, and wound penalties are halved (rounded down) for the same 
time. 
The subjects also feel Ra’s spiritual scrutiny. People who believe themselves 
to be caring, generous and honest receive a positive acknowledgment of their 
strengths and efforts, while those who feel guilty about their morals experience 
a fresh load of guilt. Mummies may make Balance Challenges against seven 
Traits, with success restoring one Sekhem Trait. Mortals may make Willpower 
Challenges against seven Traits; success restores one Willpower Trait. Those 
who fail feel guilt rise so strongly in them that they lose a point of Sekhem or 
Willpower, as appropriate. 
When used against vampires, this spell induces lethargy and slumber 
(vampires are subject to the same penalties for waking activity as if it were 
dawn, as described in Laws of the Night, Revised Edition, p. 11 1). Targeted 
vampires must spend one Willpower Trait each turn to remain awake. This is 
long enough to escape the effect, and it dissipates thereafter. Those who do not 
fall asleep as normal for a full hour. Only an attack or being set on fire can 
awaken them. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


READ THE TREE OF LIFE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 1 
According to Egyptian tradition, Seshet, said by some to be the wife of 
Thoth, records everyone’s life somewhere on the Tree oflife. Skilled astrologers 
can read her markings. This ritual unfurls the leaf that is the record of a single 
existence, mortal or supernatural. The degree to which the celestine can read 
forward or backward from the present moment depends on the number of 
Mental Traits spent: 
Traits 
Time Span 
1 
one day 
2 
one week 
3 
one month 
4 
one year 
5 
a mortal lifetime 
This divination is the most powerful available within the Cekstial Hekau, 
and is not used lightly: Master astrologers teach new Amenti that the knowledge 
the Tree of Life carries with it a burden to act on it as to promote the cause of 
Ma’at. Such predictions are never very clear, and Seshet does not feel the need 
to make her writings easy to read or understand. In reading backward, the 
Amenti may delve into someone’s history, while reading forward may give him 
some warning regarding an event’s outcome. 
SANDSTORM 
Type: Spell or Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 3 + 1 per level of damage 
When invoked as a spell with a Mental Challenge, this effect unleashes a 
whirlwind of blasting sand (even out of the dust in the air if there’s no sand 
available). The sand forms into a 10-foot-high column three feet across, plus 
one per additional Mental Trait spent. 
When invoked as a ritual with a Static Mental Challenge, this effect works 
like a specialized and more potent cousin to Weather Magic and Call the Stars. 
All available sand and dust mass together to form a 500-foot-high wall, that is 
half a mile wide and 100-feet deep, traveling at up to 80 miles per hour in the 
direction of the prevailing winds. It lasts as long as it remains within the 
mummy’s line of sight. 
In either case, anyone caught in the sand blast suffers one level of lethal 
damage per turn, plus another level for each additional Sekhem Trait that the 
celestine spends while using this effect. The sand strips paint, clogs engines, 
blinds people with exposed eyes (requiring two turns to clear the grit), and 
otherwise behaves like real sand moving really fast. The ritual form does require 
significant quantities of sand and loose dirt to work with; without them, it 
creates a windstorm, which does bashing rather than lethal damage. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


* The celestine must concentrate on either form of this effect to maintain 
it. Taking damage disrupts concentration enough to end it. 
WISDOM OF ISIS 
Type: Spell 
Difficulty: Opposing magic 
Sekhem: 2 
This potent spell lets the celestine appeal to the goddess of wisdom to 
cancel out another’s spell. The difficulty for this challenge is the difficulty of 
the targeted spell. Success cancels out the basic results of the spell; each 
additional Mental Trait spent lets the celestine negate the effects of additional 
Traits spent, if relevant. It works against other Hekau and all other forms, such 
as sorcery, Thaumaturgy in its many forms, and Sphere magic. Once all the 
target spell’s successes are negated, the celestine may spend an additional 
Mental Trait to change the spell’s target. It continues to operate as before, but 
against someone else - 
possibly the caster or an ally. 
Many celestines like to delay this spell with Hanging the Stars, so as to have 
it ready for unexpected encounters with hostile magic. 
ADVANCED CELESTIAL 
ADVANCED WEATHER MAGIC 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Varies 
Sekhem: Varies 
See the chart on p. 143 for the range of possible weather manipulations, 
all ofwhich now lie within the celestine’s grasp. Disaster and blessing alike wait 
for the mummy to call them forth, and the changes can last whole seasons. 
Sample effects include: 
Tornado -A massive whirling vortex of screaming winds that inflicts 
10 levels of lethal damage within a five-yard radius any time it touches down. 
The Amenti has no hope of controlling his creation once he sets it loose, 
though. 
Typhoon - 
The Amenti can unleash a week-long hurricane with 
effects like the Thunderstorm and Tornado combined, plus massive flooding. 
DIVINE GREATNlESS 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This is a stronger form of the Divine Forms spell, granting a three-Trait 
bonus in one category, plus an additional two if the celestine spends an 
additional Mental Trait. The effect lasts for one hour. This spell uses Meditation 
for its retests. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


PLAGUE OF MA’AT 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 10 
This ritual is actually a set of potent forces that Ma’at puts at the disposal 
of Celestial’s most diligent students. The great Biblical plagues were inflicted on 
Egypt, not in defense of it; Ma’at has accepted the justice of those ancient 
events and therefore incorporated them into her arsenal of retribution. The 
celestine must learn each of these rituals separately. 
Each Plague ofMa’at takes five hours to cast. It covers a single building, or 
a larger area with the expenditure of additional Mental Traits: a city block for 
one extra Trait, a neighborhood for two extra Traits, or an entire small town 
for three extra Traits. It lasts for one hour unless otherwise specified. These 
effects are very frightening, and most people panic and flee the area. The 
resulting damage, panic and occasional loss of life gain the attention of the 
Judges of Ma’at - 
as well as other interested authorities who can recognize the 
unnatural -and the Amenti better have an ironclad reason why he has called 
up the plagues. 
Water to Blood: All water within the target area turns to cold, dead blood. 
People even weep and sweat blood. All water brought into the area suffers the 
same effect, and the plague remains in effect until the next sunrise. The 
resulting blood has no nutritive value for either people or vampires, so 
individuals in the area risk dehydration. 
Beetles: Flesh-eating beetles swarm out of the ground and over the entire 
area, devouring all flesh in the area. Even the undead, corpses and other 
supematurals are not safe. Anyone covered in beetles suffers one level of lethal 
damage each turn. The beetles are slower than people and very bad climbers, 
so Fair Escape is relatively easy once a target can move, and they flee from fire. 
Locusts: Swarms of locusts emerge from obscure comers and descend from 
the sky to devour grain vegetables, fruit, bread and anything else vaguely edible. 
They clog engines and fans, crawl all over people looking for crumbs, and 
obscure visibility. They force open cupboards and containers through sheer 
mass, and identify even the smallest openings to enter secured areas in search 
of food. This plague doesn’t directly inflict levels of damage, but it is profoundly 
unsettling. 
Frogs: Veritable torrents of frogs descend from the sky, many splattering 
fatally upon hitting the ground. The survivors hop madly in all directions. The 
frogs exude a mild toxin that causes rashes on all who touch them, reducing the 
victims to a maximum of one Appearancesrelated Trait for one full week. 
Scorpions: Scorpions emerge from cracks and dark comers throughout the 
area. They’re easy to avoid, but if they sting a careless or unlucky individual, 
they inflict one level of lethal damage per tum for three turns. Multiple stings 
can incapacitate or kill most people. 
Sores: Everyone in the area suddenly develops painful itching and discovers 
spreading red spots or pustules. In a few hours, these blemishes burst into wet, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


oozhg sores, inflicting one level of lethal damage and negating all but one 
Appearance-related Trait until the damage heals. 
Death: One in 10 mortal victims dies. The Storyteller may choose the 
specific targets, or roll randomly for them, or select by some other means. Death 
takes the form of sudden hemorrhaging or a heart attack, so beings not 
susceptible to such damage can’t be affected. While it causes little material 
destruction, the horror from such a loss of life can be catastrophic. 
ROUSING APOPHIS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 9 
Sekhem: 15 
All of the resurrected know Apophis as the great adversary, the serpent 
that seeks to swallow the sun and plunge the world into darkness. The most 
powerful masters of Celestial learn how to put the Great Beast to use in the 
service of his own enemies. The mummy briefly rouses Apophis, and makes the 
earth shake. The earthquake is at least 8.0 on the Richter scale: Buildings 
crumble, fault lines crack, and so on. The epicenter is wherever the mummy 
stands when performing the ritual, and it cannot be delayed with Hanging the 
Stars. The mummy is very likely to die in the earthquake, along with many of 
the others in the area, and he better have a good answer for the angry questions 
the Judges will ask in the Underworld. Because of the risk of massive loss of life 
and possibly unbalancing the Scales of Ma’at, this ritual is granted only to those 
Amenti who hold to Ma’at’s principles most strictly. There are also whispers 
from Amenti in the Underworld that avast, scaled form stretching for miles has 
been seen in Duat during this ritual. While most Amenti believe Apophis is 
mythical, none wish to find out just how mythical he truly is. 
EFFIGY 
Unlike amulets, effigies need not be worn to provide benefits for their 
users, and indeed some effigies are immaterial, existing only in the Underworld. 
It takes the same challenge to create an effigy as an amulet (retest with Crafts), 
except as noted specifically below, after which the mummy inscribes the ritual’s 
words of power. This takes one day for Basic effects, three days for Intermediate 
effects, or five days for Advanced effects, with breaks only to eat, sleep and 
meditate to renew Sekhem. The artisan may speed the process along by using 
Sekhem from Vessels or potions. 
Once made, the effigy doesn’t need renewal, unlike an amulet. It sits inert 
most of the time, acting only when infused with Sekhem at activation. Anyone 
who knows Effigy can try to activate a given effigy, making a Static Mental 
Challenge against the difficulty of the particular ritual. The effigy does require 
Sekhem to be spent with every use. Ifdenied its “food,” the effigy becomes inert. 
When activated, effigies grow to the full size of the creatures they resemble, 
but they are clearly works of art brought to life. The artisan must make a Static 
Physical Challenge against six Traits (retest with Crafts) and spend one 
Sekhem to repair one health level ofdamage that an effigy suffers, since effigies 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


have no innate capability for healing. An effigy reduced past Incapacitated is 
immediately destroyed. 
Effigies register as magical items to Awareness and suitable mystic senses. 
BASIC EFFIGY 
BASIC CHATTEL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: 2 to create, 1 per week to maintain 
With a Physical Challenge (retest with Crafts), this ritual turns a small 
model of a simple common object - 
a bed, a sword, a skateboard and so on - 
into a full-sized functional item when activated. Anyone can carry the effigy 
as a charm, use it as a paperweight, or stuff it in a pocket while it’s deactivated, 
since it’s full-size only when activated with Sekhem. Complex items such as 
firearms, bicycles and electronics become full-sized and very convincing in 
appearance, but don’t actually work. 
BASIC CREATURE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: 3 to create, 1 per week to maintain 
The artisan crafts a figurine of a tiny creature, such as a scorpion, frog, rat 
or bird, with a Static Physical Challenge (retest with Crafts). When activated, 
the effigy takes on the semblance of life and can carry out simple tasks, like 
transporting written messages and searching small areas. The effigy is no 
smarter than the creature on which it’s based and can easily be confused by 
commands to do things foreign to its nature. It has the natural weaponry of the 
kind the artisan copies. More complex abilities - 
a scorpion’s venom, a bat’s 
sonar - 
are beyond the effigy’s means at this level. 
BASIC INERTION 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell protects the artisan from other artisans’ handwork. The mummy 
must touch the artifact inquestion, which requires anormal Physical Challenge 
in combat situations, and makes a Social Challenge against the creator (retest 
with Occult). If the artisan using Basic Inertion wins, he can deactivate the 
product of any Basic Effigy effect for one hour. The creator may restart it after 
that. This spell also applies to the Basic powers of comparable magic, such as 
magic that animates statues or creates spiritual duplicates of objects. 
BASIC SERVITOR 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Sekhem: 1 to create, 1 per month to maintain 
Ancient Egyptian nobility were entombed with small figurines of clay, 
wood or stone enchanted to serve them. With a Static Physical Challenge, this 
ritual creates a small, nearly mindless entity that can carry out single-phrase 
instructions like “dig,” “sweep,” “follow” and “carry.” The Basic Servitor cannot 
understand more complex orders or engage in fine manipulation. It cannot 
fight or heal itself; it has three health levels, and suffers no wound penalties 
until it’s destroyed. 
BASIC WREST 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 + special 
This spell lets the artisan attempt to seize control of a Basic Efigy creation 
within the mummy’s line of sight. Spend one Sekhem, plus any Sekhem that 
would normally be necessary to activate the effigy, and make a Social Challenge 
against its creator (retest with Occult). Success gives the wrester full control: 
She can command, activate and deactivate the effigy as she chooses. The 
original creator may use this same spell to try to take back control, if he knows 
it. As with Basic Inertion, this can affect comparable magic ofnon-Amenti sorts. 
COMMAND BASIC IMPLEMENT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
With a successful Mental Challenge (retest with Occult), the artisan takes 
control of an inanimate object’s essence. This spell affects only simple items, 
without moving parts, like knives, brushes and chisels. Success gives the artisan 
one bonus Trait for all challenges involving using that implement for the next 
hour. 
FALSE DOOR 
Type: Spell or Ritual 
Sekhem: Special 
The artisan creates a portal through a solid object - 
up to one foot deep 
with Basic Efigy, three feet with Intermediate, or five feet with Advanced. To 
cast this effect as a spell, he draws or scratches the shape of adoor in the barrier, 
spends one Sekhem, and makes a Physical Challenge (retest with Crafts). If 
successful, the door flickers with an opalescent sheen and allows passage in 
either direction for one turn per Balance Trait that the artisan possesses. 
To cast this effect as a ritual, he creates a careful representation of a door 
on one side of the barrier, spends five Sekhem, and makes a Static Physical 
Challenge against six Traits (retest with Crafts). Apart from the faGade of a 
door, there’s no visible sign of the passage. The creator may pass through it in 
either direction at any time upon winning a Mental Challenge (retest with 
Occult). He can spend one Sekhem a month to bond the door and any active 
effigies, to allow them to use it as well, and may spend one Sekhem to open the 
door for anyone to use for one hour. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Other mummies who know about the door may spend one Sekhem and 
make a Mental Challenge to use it even when the creating artisan isn’t present. 
Neither spell nor ritual forms of False Door allow anyone to look through 
the doorway. The only way to find out what’s on the other side is to go there. 
INTERMEDIATE EFFIGY 
BOND OF FATE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 6 to create, 1 to maintain for the scene 
The artisan forges a mystic link between a model she’s made of an object 
and theoriginal, using astatic Mentalchallenge (retest withoccult). Any fate 
that befalls one happens to both, including the transmission of damage. The 
linked object or structure must never have been alive (that is, neither living nor 
a corpse, but an inanimate object) and can be no larger than a house. 
COMMAND INTERMEDIATE IMPLEMENT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 for small, simple devices, 2 for larger and/or more complex ones 
This spell lets the artisan control the essence of a wide range of tools and 
machines, from guns and locks up to cars, boats and even small houses. With 
a successful Mental Challenge (retest with Occult), the artisan receives three 
bonus Traits on all challenges involving using the item in question for the next 
hour. Items too large to rest comfortably in the artisan’s hand and/or requiring 
sophisticated tools to assemble and maintain require two Sekhem to control. 
GUARD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 4 to create, 1 per week to maintain 
Withastatic Physical Challenge againstsevenTraits (retest withoccult), 
this ritual creates a superior servitor in the form of a powerful warrior figurine, 
armed with a sword or spear. It can follow relatively complicated orders as long 
as they pertain to defense, and will fight until destroyed or ordered to desist. It 
has seven health levels, nine Physical Traits, and three levels each ofDodge and 
Meke. It is unaffected by wound penalties, but cannot heal any damage it 
sustains. 
INTERMEDIATE CHATTEL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 3 to create, 1 per week to maintain 
The artisan creates a model of a large and/or complex device such as a 
pistol, car or cottage, following the same rules as for Basic Chattel. Highly 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


complex items like computers and aircraft are beyond the scope of this ritual, 
and produce only convincing but inert duplicates. 
INTERMEDIATE CREATURE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 8 to create, 2 per week to maintain 
Like Basic Creature, this ritual lets the artisan create a figurine that can 
become a full-sized animal, now of any medium-sized animal species - 
a dog, 
cat, python, monkey, hyena, lynx and so on. Intermediate Creatures possess all 
the natural weaponry of their kind and capabilities of their kind (a bat’s sonar, 
a cobra’s venom and so on), and will fight on behalf of their creator if instructed 
to do so. They are significantly more intelligent and loyal than natural animals, 
and can carry out detailed instructions reliably. 
INTERMEDIATE INERTION 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell behaves like Basic Inertion, except that it neutralizes both Basic 
and Intermediate Effigy magic. 
INTERMEDIATE WREST 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 + special 
This spell works just like Basic Wrest, except that it can affect the works 
of both Basic and Intermediate Effigy. 
REFLECTION 
Type: Ritual 
Traits: 6 
Sekhem: 2 to create, 1 per day to maintain 
The artisan casts this ritual on an object no larger than a king-sized bed and 
no more complex than a bicycle. If the ritual succeeds (with a successful Static 
Mental Challenge, retest with Occult), the artisan touches the item, or the 
space in the Shadowlands where it would be, and it becomes real in Duat as well 
as in material existence. Anyone in the spirit world can then use the object 
normally. Note that the object and its spiritual counterpart remain united: 
Someone riding the bicycle in the material world makes it move without 
apparent cause in the Shadowlands, and vice versa. Anything created with 
Reflection is not considered a relic in the Underworld 
RELIC 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The artisan casts this spell while destroying an object in the physical 
world, releasing its spiritual essence to exist in the Underworld. Many ghosts 
prize relics as luxuries of times past or necessities for existence, and relics can 
be handy bargaining chips. The object can be no longer than a king-sized bed 
and not overly complex - 
a revolver will yield to this spell, but not a 
motorcycle. The spell requires the object’s complete destruction - 
by fire, 
smashing into very small pieces, or otherwise rendering it beyond any mundane 
means of repair. Incomplete destruction guarantees that the object will not 
manifest in h a t ,  and this spell can be tried only once on any given object. This 
effort requires a Mental Challenge (retested with Occult), in addition to any 
Physical Challenges necessary to destroy the item. 
OVERSEER 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 to create, 1 per week to maintain 
Egyptian funerary custom called for carving a statue designed as the 
Overseer, a special servitor empowered to oversee the actions of the others. This 
ritual lets the artisan create such a statue. When activated, it can carry out 
relatively complex orders, such as digging irrigation trenches for a field or 
transporting bricks and building a wall with them, or guarding from all except 
those who know the password. The Overseer can direct up to 10 Simple Servitors 
or five Guards, within their usual limits. Remember that the Overseer has no 
true sentience, only its magical capacity to follow instructions - 
it has no 
general initiative or creativity, and responds to unexpected circumstances by 
ignoring them, as best it can. It is created no differently than a Guard. 
Like other Servitors, the Overseer cannot fight or heal itself. It has seven 
health levels. 
SEKHEM VESSEL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 8 to create, variable to infuse 
This ritual works on any object with some space to hold something, from 
a ring or locket with a secret compartment, or a jar, chest or bucket. The artisan 
inscribes words of power and enchants it to store Sekhem. With success on the 
creation challenge (a Static Mental Challenge), the vessel is prepared and 
capable of holding Sekhem. 
Other mummies can store Sekhem as well as the creator, as long as they 
know Basic (or greater) Effigy. To store Sekhem, decide on the number of 
Sekhem Traits to add (up to the limit of the container’s capacity as determined 
at its creation) and make a Mental Challenge. Success lets the mummy drain 
out one ofher Sekhem Traits to store in the vessel. Spending additional Mental 
Traits allows for further Sekhem to be stored on a one-for-one basis. 
Any mummy, with or without knowledge of Effigy, can withdraw the 
energy. Make a Balance Challenge to withdraw Sekhem up to the mummy’s 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


normal capacity. A character may have Sekhem Traits from just one Sekhem 
Vessel at a time. 
ADVANCED EFFIGY 
ADVANCED BOND OF FATE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Target’s total (or 9, whichever is higher) 
Sekhem: Varies 
This ritual has two separate effects. First, it can work just like Bond ofFate 
but extend to an object of any size, including a pyramid or battleship. It costs 
7 Sekhem to create this bond, and 2 more to make it active for the scene. 
Second, the artisan can create the image of a specific person and use the 
resulting effigy to control that person’s will. When the artisan activates the 
effigy, make a challenge of the artisan’s Willpower against that of the target. If 
the victim wins, the effigy shatters and becomes useless. On a tie, the struggle 
continues into the next turn. If the artisan wins, the artisan gains control of all 
aspects of the victim’s movement except speech for one hour. The victim must 
match each motion that the mummy commands from the effigy, and suffers the 
same damage that the effigy does. This bond demands a Social Challenge to 
create (retest with Occult), plus 20 Sekhem to activate it and 2 more to 
maintain the bond for the scene. 
ADVANCED CHATTEL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 10 to create, 2 per day to maintain 
This ritual extends the capabilities of Simpk Chattel to include even very 
large and complex items such as palaces, jets and computer networks. 
ADVANCED CREATURE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 25 to create, 1 per day to maintain 
This ritual lets the artisan create an effigy of any natural animal of any size 
- 
from an insect to a whale or giant squid - 
imbued with intelligence and 
knowledge equal to that of its creator. The effigy has the same ability ratings 
as the artisan at the time of creation, and can use them within the limits of its 
physical form. Advanced Creature creations are absolutely loyal to the artisan 
and act with his interests and well-being in mind. This ritual works like Simple 
Creature to create the effigy. 
ADVANCED INERTION 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This spell works like Simple Inertion except that it can affect Basic, 
Intermediate and Advanced EfJlgy effects. If it's used successfully against a Ka 
Vessel, the vessel's inhabitant must flee back into the Underworld. 
ADVANCED REFLECTION 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 7 to create, 2 per day to maintain 
This ritual works like Refkction except that it can affect very large and 
complex items like palaces and computer networks. 
ADVANCED RELIC 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 10 
This spell works like Relic, but can transfigure very large and complex 
items. Note that the item still must be destroyed for the spell to work, and 
destroying a palace or computer network all at once at the right time is not a 
small task. 
ADVANCED WREST 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 + special 
This spell works like Basic Wrest, but can affect Basic, Intermediate and 
Advanced Effigy creations. 
KA VESSEL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 50 to create, 1 per scene to maintain 
This ritual creates a life-sized magical statue to be activated and inhabited 
by the soul of the individual it represents. Each Ku Vessel must be made for a 
specific individual, whose named is inscribed on it during the creation process. 
The designated soul can enter the Ku Vessel from h a t  and activate it with a 
Social Challenge. 
The statue moves and attacks but cannot speak. It is as hard as the stone 
from which the artisan it was made, and correspondingly clumsy. The KuVessel 
has 18 Physical Traits (six Strength-related, two Dexterity-related, 10 Stamina- 
related), no Social Traits and the soul's own Mental Traits. The statue has 10 
health levels, and innate armor capable of negating two levels of bashing 
damage or one level of lethal or aggravated damage per attack. It suffers no 
wound penalties and is as immune as stone to many physical attacks-poisons 
don't matter, fire just smudges its surface, electricity bounces off, and so on. 
Crafting the KuVesselrequires a Static Physical Challenge (retest withcrafts). 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


NECROMANCY 
Necromancy is in many cultures an unwholesome, evil art. The Egyptians 
saw it differently. While it has unsavory aspects, it’s essentially not only 
acceptable but necessary and proper, dealing with matters of great importance 
for the healthy, virtuous soul. The troubled conditions of the Underworld make 
it potentially dangerous to the necromancer and others, but this doesn’t make 
Necromancy itself any less innately desirable. 
Necromancy rituals take 10 minutes for Basic effects, 30 minutes for 
Intermediate effects, or 50 minutes for Advanced effects, unless otherwise 
noted. Necromancy spells generally have instant (or very shortly thereafter) 
effects. 
Keep in mind that this Hekau has nothing to do with the vampiric 
Discipline of the same name, and knowing one offers no benefit toward 
working with the other. Necromancy can retest with Occult or Thanatology, 
unless otherwise noted. 
BASIC NECROMANCY 
BANISH THE DEAD 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
This spell lets the necromancer command a single ghost to leave her 
vicinity. If her Mental Challenge is successful, it drives the ghost 5Oyards away, 
and keeps it that far away for the duration of the spell. The ghost can use ranged 
attacks and otherwise operate normally, and the spell works against only one 
specified ghost per casting. (The necromancer can target other ghosts on later 
turns.) The necromancer must be able to directly sense the target in some way, 
whether in the material world or across the Shroud; the spell does not affect 
mummies in spirit forms, but does work against any other spirits within the 
Underworld. 
The spell lasts for one turn per Balance Trait. The necromancer may spend 
one Mental Trait to extend this to one full hour, two Traits to make it last for 
one day, three Traits to make it last for one week, or four Traits to make it last 
for one month. 
BIND THE DEAD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Target’s Willpower 
Sekhem: 2 
Just as the necromancer may summon the dead to himself (with Summon 
the Dead, seep. 163), so he may try to command their obedience. This spell pits 
the force of his khaibit’s intimidating strength against the ghost’s will to resist, 
through a Static Social Challenge. If successful, the necromancer commands 
the ghost for one full day. The ghost must obey, but has the liberty to do so 
grudgingly and hesitantly. The necromancer may spend an additional Social 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Trait to make the ghost obey efficiently and quickly, or two Mental Traits to 
make it honor the spirit as well as the letter of his commands. The command 
must be something the ghost has a reasonable chance of attempting, though 
not necessarily a task it can count on bringing to completion within the day. 
Very complex orders may apply as well as simple ones, limited only by the 
ghost’s ability to understand them. This spell works only when the necromancer 
is himself alive, and affects only ghosts. 
BODY PRESERVATION 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 3 
The Amenti’s corpse is immune to the normal processes of decay after the 
Spell of Life, but is not automatically protected from deliberately applied 
traumas suffered while the soul is in h a t .  This ritual creates a noxious mixture 
of oils, creams and potions which, when applied to the body, increase the khat’s 
resilience. The process takes one full day to complete, plus a successful Static 
Mental Challenge; when it’s done, the target khat gains the equivalent of one 
level of the Ku Background. If the target already has a rating in Ka, Body 
Preservation raises it by one, up to a maximum of five levels. In addition, the 
target gains a bonus to Ka challenges to protect the khat from harm - 
one 
bonus Trait if she knows Basic Necromancy, three Traits if she knows 
Intermediate, or five Traits if she knows Advanced. The caster can work this 
ritual only upon herself or whatever corpse she currently animates. 
This ritual calls for exotic components. A mummy who knows what to 
look for may determine if a mummy necromancer is in the area by checking 
local herb shops to see if certain ingredients have been purchased. 
DEATH’S SHROUD 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
To cast this spell, the necromancer lies down and places some sort of 
symbolic shield over his heart and eyes, whether it’s as simple as a strip of paper 
or as ornate as a golden mask. He concentrates for one turn, makes the 
necessary Mental Challenge, and shapes Sekhem into a magical shield against 
spiritual injury. Attacks that wouldharmorscry for themummy’ssoulmustfirst 
overcome the resistance of Death’s Shroud, which has one Trait plus an 
additional one for each Mental Trait that the necromancer spends when 
casting it. These Traits reduce levels of damage done and must be overcome in 
Mental or Social Challenges (depending on the effect being used against the 
mummy). Each challenge, successful or not, reduces the Shroud’s total by one. 
Those with spirit-sight and comparable powers can see the Shroud as a 
gray halo around both the khat and the mummy’s soul in the Underworld. 
Death’s Shroud remains active until the next sunrise at the khat’s location. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


GHOST LANTERN 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell works only in the Underworld. The mummy utters a short 
syllable, the player makes a Mental Challenge and, if both are successful, a 
small piece of ectoplasm glows with a flickering green light. This light can float 
in his hands, or shine from within an existing object; in either case, it 
illuminates the Underworld to a distance of one yard per Balance Trait. 
FERTILITY OF OSIRIS 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 9 
Sekhem: 1 
This ritual is unlikely to come into play during aLaws of the Resurrection 
session (review the basic principles of Mind’s Eye Theatre play if any questions 
arise about its suitability). It allows a dead male - 
whether a Sefekhi, an older 
mummy created via Lesser Resurrection, and even an ordinary corpse - 
to 
impregnate a living mortal woman. The offspring is a normal mortal child. For 
purposes of Storytelling, the ritual requires a Static Mental Challenge. 
JUDGE THE SOUL 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
The mummy can appraise the purity of a soul by trace manifestations, both 
physical and spiritual. To judge another’s soul, the mummy scrutinizes the 
target for one full turn - 
she does not need to speak anything, but her intense 
staring may attract notice. If she succeeds in the ensuing Mental Challenge, she 
can immediately identify fellow mummies and those with True Faith, and she 
can get a general sense of the target’s overall compassion and courage. She can 
spend an additional Mental Trait to identify specific areas of moral strength 
and weakness, one particularly high or low point of virtue per Balance Trait 
that the necromancer possesses. 
Most supernatural beings have some feature that identifies them to one 
judging their souls, such as vampiric bloodthirst, werewolves’ rage or changelings’ 
Glamour. This spell also functions onghosts, although the mummy must either 
be in the Underworld or be able to see across the Shroud. If she spends the 
additional Mental Trait to identify the ghost’s spirit more thoroughly, she may 
be able to tell if the Shadow is currently dominant (provided she knows what 
it is). However, the Judges of Ma’at are not always infallible, and a failed 
challenge may suggest information that is not true (such as an infernalist 
sorcerer appearing to be pure of heart). 
Some supernatural creatures possess concealing techniques that may hide 
their unusual “marks.” A mummy must know Intermediate Necromancy to see 
through Basic Disciplines of concealment, and Advanced Necromancy to see 
through Intermediate techniques. This spell uses Dietination for its retest. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


REVISIT DEATH 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: None 
The necromancer rubs the skin of a corpse and draws out images and 
memories buried in the khat's flesh and makes a Static Mental Challenge. The 
experiences come out in a combination of vision and emotional experience, 
cascading over the course of a few seconds. Success shows the necromancer the 
most intense experience the person had in the day before death. Spend one 
additional Mental Trait for one strong impression per Balance Trait spread 
throughout the last week of the subject's life, or two additional Mental Traits 
for two such impressions per Balance Trait spread throughout the last month. 
The necromancer must touch the body physically, and must therefore be living 
and in the mortal world. The ritual only affects the truly dead- not vampires, 
mummies and the like. This ritual calls for Divination for its retest. 
SENSE THE DEAD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: 1 
The necromancer attunes herself to her vicinity, gaining a preternatural 
awareness of any passage of the dead, through a Static Mental Challenge. 
Whenever aghost enters the area, the mummy feels a cold chill and immediately 
knows that the boundary has been violated. The area can cover up to 10 square 
feet per Balance Trait, and can be in any location where the necromancer can 
physically stand on each boundary point. Most necromancers use this ritual for 
information about their tomb, though any place the living mummy can go is 
a potential target. Note that the ritual does not tell the necromancer just where 
the boundary was crossed, only that it was crossed somewhere. 
The warning sense applies not only to ghosts, but to nature spirits, 
mummies in spirit form and other sentient creatures in h a t .  The necromancer 
may make a Mental Challenge to identify a specific spirit she's met before. She 
must be alive to perform the ritual, but it continues to function while she's in 
spirit form. It lasts for one month. 
SEPARATE KA 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell lets the necromancer separate his ka while still alive, rather than 
having to wait for the next death cycle. With a successful Mental Challenge, 
the khat falls comatose, and the ka emerges in the Underworld, connected to 
the body by the khu. The separation lasts for one hour and follows as per Potion 
of rhe Separable Ku, with the following caveats. 
The spirit may travel only in the Heter-khertet, the Shadowlands close to 
the lands of the living. For an additional Sekhem Trait, the spirit may manifest 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


within the living world, appearing as an idealized version of the necromancer. 
(If the mummy has aka tem-akh, some of its First Life appearance contributes 
to the result.) The materialized ka has three Physical Traits and cannot use 
Sekhem to channel Hekau. If struck, he loses Sekhemrather than health levels, 
but his Necromancy rating provides some armor: it negates one level of lethal 
or bashing damage if he knows BasicNecromancy, two ifhe knows Intermediate, 
or three if he knows Advanced. 
The ka returns to the body automatically when the hour is up. If the ka 
happens to be more than a few paces from the body then, make a Physical 
Challenge to avoid taking a level of bashing damage from psychic shock. 
STORM SHIELD 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This spell protects the necromancer and his allies from spiritually inflicted 
damage while they’re in the Underworld. If the Mental Challenge is successful, 
it lasts until the next sunrise at the location of the mummy’s body, and acts as 
one level of armor for every two Balance Traits, rounded up. The spell protects 
the necromancer and one additional target for each additional Mental Trait 
spent at casting. 
STORMWALK 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
The Underworld has its own topography, with roads known as Byways and 
strongholds where ghosts dwell. The Dja-akh ripped through it all and 
continues to work changes; little is constant anymore across the Shroud. 
Usually mummies travel long distances in the Underworld guided by Anubis 
or one of the Aken, his boatmen, but sometimes they must go alone and rely 
on their own intuition. This spell lets the mummy navigate with reference to 
any location to whichshe’s attunedherself. WithasuccessfulMentalChallenge, 
Stomwalk shows the Amenti a quick route to her desired goal based on that 
reference point. Note, however, that “quick” does not necessarily mean 
“safe”. . . . 
SUMMON THE DEAD 
Type: Ritual 
Traits: Target’s Willpower total 
Sekhem: 1 
The necromancer speaks the name of someone who died in his presence 
or whom he met in the Underworld and bends his will toward that person. If 
the necromancer triumphs (a successful Static Social Challenge), a black 
portal opens in the Underworld and pulls the ghost immediately to the 
mummy’s location. The ghost retains its independence and may well be hostile, 
even dominated by its darker half, and the necromancer must persuade or 
coerce its cooperation once it’s actually on the spot. Only a living mummy can 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


perform this spell, and it only affects true ghosts, not mummies in the death 
cycle or other spirits who wander among the dead. 
INTERMEDIATE NECROMANCY 
AMENTI’S GRACE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 5 
This ritual protects an area of the Underworld, up to 10 feet square per 
Balance Trait that the necromancer possesses, against the Dja-akh storms. The 
ritual uses a smaller-scale version of the ancient rites used to preserve the 
original city of Amenti, with modifications to cope with the stresses that 
overwhelmed the old Kingdom of Sand. The necromancer walks the perimeter 
of his chosen area while uttering prayers to Ra, then steps inside to spend the 
ritual time in prayer. At the end of his prayers, he makes a Static Mental 
Challenge. If successful, the ritual creates an area within which the Dja-akh 
does not blow. The protection lasts for one day, or longer if the necromancer 
spends additional Mental Traits: one week for one Trait, one month for two 
Traits, six months for three Traits, or one year for four Traits. By spending four 
Mental Traits and sacrificing a permanent Willpower Trait, the necromancer 
can make the protection permanent. Because the shifting Byways and Dja-akh 
make travel both hazardous and confusing, the necromancer should choose the 
protected location carefully. 
Havens like this are extremely rare in the Underworld, and a new one 
attracts the attention of local wraiths and Spectres, many of whom try to claim 
the protected area for themselves. 
ANIMATE CORPSE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 3 
This ritual lets the necromancer create one of the classic “walking dead” 
of folklore, a barely conscious creature under her control. The ritual requires 
the necromancer to perform the appropriate incantations while inscribing 
symbols on the target corpse’s chest or breathing air into its lungs. After 
creating the corpse, the necromancer makes the Static Mental Challenge. The 
resulting creation has the statistics of a shambler (seep. 256) and does nothing 
on its own initiative except stand and rot, in the absence of simple and explicit 
instructions from the necromancer. The creature loses one health level per 
week, finally crumbling into a mound of bones and viscera, unless protected 
with Body Preservation. Success at that spell protects the body for one year, plus 
one year per additional Mental Trait spent, unless the body’s destroyed by 
external forces. The necromancer can have a total of active corpses at any given 
time of one per Balance Trait, plus three if she knows IntermediateNecromancy , 
or five if she knows Advanced. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This is not a virtuous action, and mummies concerned with Ma’at use it 
sparingly. If the spirit of the body becomes aware of the abuse, she will have 
something to say about it. The Bane Mummies and their ilk have no such 
worries, and rumor claims they have legions of such shambling corpses to do 
their bidding. 
BIND THE LIVING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 3 
With this ritual, a mummy can assure herself of a few allies among the dead 
by working with them before death. The necromancer must spend one full day, 
from sunrise to sunset (a minimum of eight hours, if the local daylight hours are 
fewer at the moment), chanting over the subject and inscribing a set of glyphs 
on the subject’s heart while explaining to the subject what’s going on. She then 
makes a Static Social Challenge. If the ritual succeeds, the subject returns as 
a ghost after death, subject to the necromancer within the constraints of basic 
success for Bind the Dead. The subject needs to understand that he’s being 
bound to this attachment to the living world rather than passing on to lasting 
judgment, but the necromancer is free to add embellishments and other little 
white lies (such as claiming that this is the subject’s way to earn forgiveness of 
sins, or that this is a path to higher power in the long run). 
The necromancer must spend one Sekhem Trait each time he wants to 
summon a bound soul, and he can have a maximum of his Balance Traits in 
bound souls, plus three if he knows Intermediate Necromancy, or five if he 
knows Advanced. This ritual works only on normal humans-vampires, 
other 
mummies and supernatural creatures are considered to be already weighted for 
judgment - 
and the mummy must be in the living world to use it. 
DEATH’S HAND 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
This spell lets the necromancer channel the raw force of the Underworld 
through his khaibit, on either side of the Shroud. He must first touch his target 
with a successful Physical Challenge (skin-to-skin contact is not required). He 
then makes a Mental Challenge. If successful, he inflicts one level of aggravated 
damage on the target, plus one for each additional Mental Trait spent. The 
target is also stunned and cannot act for the rest of the turn. Acting as a conduit 
for this power has its cost: The mummy suffers one level of lethal damage for 
each level of damage done to the target, and his arm temporarily chars black. 
(Repeated use leaves permanent marks.) This power works equally well on 
either side of the Shroud, and any marks from its use show up in both worlds 
as well. 
KHAIBAT’S EMBRACE 
Type: Spell 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


P 
Sekhem: 10 
Only living mummies can perform this spell. The necromancer grasps the 
target by the face, which requires a Physical Challenge in combat situations, 
and spends three turns chanting arcane phrases. A resisting target can foil the 
spell by breaking the mummy’s grip with other Physical Challenges, forcing the 
caster to start the procedure all over again. When the chant is complete (it 
takes approximately three minutes), the necromancer makes a SocialChallenge. 
If this spell succeeds, the necromancer draws out the target’s khaibit in a 
physical manifestation: Black, viscous ectoplasm pours out of the subject’s skin 
and wraps his body in a slimy bundle. Once encased, the victim falls into a 
trance in which he cannot act, move or use magical powers. Nor can he be 
killed, until the khaibit prison is removed. The Embrace lasts until the caster 
chooses to end it, when some preset condition arrives, or when a counter- 
enchantment negates it. Any mummy who knows this spell can use it toremove 
the Embrace, with the same difficulties and costs as were involved in its 
creation. 
MANIFESTATION 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: 3 
The necromancer performs this ritual while in the Underworld to manifest 
tangibly in the physical world for one hour. Her manifested body is solid, but 
has the feel and consistency of liquefied jelly, with a shimmering-silver, 
translucent sheen. Mortals who see it suffer the effects of the Veil. The ritual 
requires a Static Mental Challenge to be successful. 
The manifested body is limited in effective Physical Traits to the number 
of Balance Traits that the necromancer has at the time. Bashing and lethal 
attacks, no matter how many levels they had normally inflicted, inflict only 
one level of bashing damage, with the rest harmlessly splashing through the 
viscous form. Aggravated damage hurts the necromancer as usual, as do attacks 
designed to work against spirits and the dead. Any weapons and other items the 
necromancer carries in the Underworld materialize with her and work normally. 
If separated from her, they dissolve at the end of the turn. 
The necromancer may also perform this ritual while living to make a target 
ghost manifest, if she can see it before performing the ritual. It has the same 
advantages and limitations that the necromancer would if using it on herself. 
SEPARATE BA 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
With a moment’s concentration and a short incantation (and a successful 
Mental Challenge), the mummy detaches his ba from his body. This spell works 
much like Separate Ku, except that the ba can go anywhere in the spirit world. 
If the necromancer’s body dies or his soul is disrupted during this spell, he 
immediately enters the death cycle. Because his spirit is already in the 
Underworld, however, he does not attract Anubis’ attention or automatically 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


appear before the Judges of Ma’at. Therefore, some necroman 
to escape judgment when they feel death is near. 
SEVER SOUL 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
This spell lets the necromancer cut off the soul of a living subject from its 
body, if the soul is currently outside the body due to Separate Ka, Separate Ba 
or other comparable magical ability. The necromancer makes a tugging gesture 
and speaks a short word of command, then pits her mental power against the 
target’s will to remain a connected entity (make a Mental Challenge). If the 
target wins, nothing happens. On a tie, the defender suffers one level of bashing 
damage and knows that something is trying to harm his connection with his 
body. If the necromancer succeeds, the khu breaks and leaves the khat 
unconnected to its soul. The body falls into a coma, and needs medical 
attention to avoid withering away from malnutrition and other mundane 
causes. The cut-off spirit functions normally in the Underworld; the necromancer 
can try to control it, or let it find its own way. Because the khu has been broken, 
the likelihood of the spirit finding its way back to its body is very slim, especially 
if the spirit wandered far into h a t .  The necromancer can cast this spell from 
either side of the Shroud. 
SHADOW PORTAL 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 2 
This ritual lets the necromancer tear a hole in the fabric of the Underworld 
and step directly from one point to another. It cannot be performed in a hurry, 
which does not allow for escape in the midst of combat. The necromancer 
visualizes the destination, which he must have visited before or have seen 
clearly via some remote means, and channels his khaibit, letting it seize the 
Underworld‘s substance and pull a Byway out of nothing (using a Static Mental 
Challenge). He then steps through, and the portal closes behind him. He can 
take one traveler with him, plus another for each Mental Trait he spends; they 
must be holding onto him as the ritual ends. If the destination is blocked by a 
magical ward or other force, the ritual automatically fails. The necromancer 
must be in the Underworld to perform Shadow Portal. 
SIN-EATING 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 2 
The Egyptian priesthood had rituals for removing the sins accumulated in 
supplicants’ souls before their voyage into the Underworld. This ritual draws 
on that tradition, evoking the power of the khaibit to connect with a subject’s 
baser urges and instincts. The subject must describe in detail the focus of some 
anger, hatred, jealousy or other powerful negative emotion. The mummy 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


repeats the description, substituting himself as the subject: “I want to kill my 
lover,” the subject says, and the mummy repeats “I want to kill your lover.” 
Having taken on a particular sin, the necromancer makes a Static Social 
Challenge; success allows the mummy to “eat” the sin. The mummy thereby 
removes the sins and takes them into her own darker self. The mummy must 
make separate challenges for each new sin. 
The target no longer feels the intensity driving those dark urges. He is 
quieted and freed of the urge to act on them. Conversely, the mummy feels 
them very strongly, and each significant step she makes toward fulfilling them, 
whether literally or symbolically, grants her a Sekhem or a Willpower Trait, at 
the player’s choice. The mummy’s greatest advantage is that she understands 
and controls her khaibit, and can transmute the eaten impulses into better 
ones. For instance, the urge to kill a lover can instead become the urge to 
confront, honestly explain difficult matters, and separate oneself from the 
lover. The mummy, as an outside party, has the freedom to pursue indirect and 
alternative strategies. 
In theory, Sin-Eating could work on vampires, Spectres and the like, but 
mummies don’t feel inclined to risk the experiment. This ritual uses Meditation 
for its retests. 
ADVANCED NECROMANCY 
CALL THE KHAIBIT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
The necromancer recites this Hekau over a dying individual, who 
experiences flashbacks to his every act of passion, immorality and malice. After 
the recitation (which takes five minutes), the mummy makes a SocialChallenge. 
If the spell succeeds, the target’s khaibit leaves completely. The target dies 
peacefully, and its essence passes on without lingering as a ghost. The khaibit 
remains behind as a dark entity haunting the place of death. It functions much 
like a spirit created by Separate Ka, though prone to malicious ends. Left to 
itself, the khaibit tries to injure and terrify the living, and attempts to steal and 
devour sacrifices made to the deceased. 
The khaibit remains vulnerable to necromantic compulsion and 
banishment, with the opportunities and limitations created by the Separate Ka 
spell. Some necromancers use the khaibit as spectral watchdogs for locations. 
ENTRAP THE BA 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Target’s Willpower 
Sekhem: 3 
The cycle of life and death is eternal but not immune to interference. 
Experienced necromancers can build shackles to hold part of a target’s spirit, 
making resurrection impossible and forcing living beings into comatose states. 
The necromancer must first craft an object to serve as the focus for a trapped 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


enge against six Traits 
suffices, though many mummies use Amukt Hekau to reinGrce-the ritual. Once 
the item is ready, the necromancer chants the Hekau while touching the object 
to the subject’s body, then makes a Static Mental Challenge (a Physical 
Challenge may be necessary to place the object against the target). Success on 
the ensuing challenge pulls the subject’s ba into the focus. 
A spirit trapped this way cannot manifest in or travel the Underworld. The 
body becomes comatose; a mummy suffering from its ba’s absence cannot 
continue the cycle of resurrection. The necromancer can release the spirit by 
touching his focus to the subject body again. Otherwise the spirit must rely on 
such spells as can be performed in spirit form. In general, the only way to release 
the ba is to destroy the focus. 
HEART OF LIFE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 7 
This ritual lets the necromancer remove some portion of her body - 
a 
fingertip, a toe, a vial’s worth of blood, a lock of hair and so on - 
and endow 
it with the ability to act as an alternative vessel for returning to life. She places 
the removed portion into a jar or coffin, entombs it with inscriptions from the 
Book of the Dead, and makes a Static Mental Challenge. If her body is 
completely destroyed, she may use the Heart ofLife as her new body during the 
next resurrection challenge. 
A mummy may only have one working Heart of Life at a time. 
PANOPLY OF SHADOW 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 20 
The experienced necromancer can call on the power of the Underworld, 
as with Death’s Hand, and on the intimidating depths of the deep void. 
Unleashed properly, the khaibit can draw on both to provide almost unbeatable 
protection. It takes the standard ritual time to prepare the Panoply of Shadow, 
followed by a Static Mental Challenge. The necromancer may then unleash 
the khaibit any time before the next new moon by speaking a single word 
signifying the concept of nothingness. The khaibit surges forth to wrap the 
mummy’s body and soul in a resilient black sheen for one hour. 
Anyone opposing the necromancer guarded this way suffers a one-Trait 
penalty for every Balance Trait the mummy possesses. Tangible force cannot 
penetrate the shadow at all, and the mummy has armor against even aggravated 
damage equal to his Balance rating. Effects that work on the mind function 
normally, so the mummy can be possessed, commanded, drained of energy, and 
so on. 
This ritual is both technically difficult to master and philosophically 
troublesome: It involves putting the mummy perilously close to the land of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Apophis, the Great Devourer. The mummy must have great confidence inhis 
dedication to Balance and the ability to stay on the course of life in the midst 
of the darkness. This Hekau uses Occult to retest. 
RESHAPE THE LOST SOUL 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 3 
Ghosts who linger in the Underworld have strong passions and drives, 
which renew their spiritual energy and keep them motivated in the face of 
adversity. This spell lets the necromancer alter one or more of these Passions 
in a ghost within a range equal to the mummy’s Balance rating in yards. Success 
on a Social Challenge lets the mummy remove or alter one such Passion, plus 
another one per additional Mental Trait spent. It takes one turn per change to 
actually work the transformation, and the changes last indefinitely thereafter, 
as they’re now part of the ghost’s very essence. This sort of manipulation carries 
the risk ofgreat offense against Ma’at, particularly when the ghost doesn’t wish 
to submit. The Judges of Ma’at have been known to change a soul back to its 
prior nature and unleash it on the necromancer responsible for the changes. 
SCOURING OBLIVION 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 5 
The necromancer traces protective patterns on a subject’s flesh (or, in the 
case of ghosts, ectoplasm) and scours away the marks of death. All traces of 
injury, disease, poison and the like vanish as he works. Wounds close under his 
hands, while poison and disease leave the body in visible trails ofdripping taint. 
At the conclusion of the ritual, the mummy makes a Static Mental Challenge, 
spreads his hands, and all lingering ichor disappears. If the scouring succeeds, 
the target regains maximum health levels. The mummy can perform this ritual 
on himself as well as others. 
NOMENCLATURE 
Nomenclature is in some ways the most fundamental of magics, as it deals 
with the very essence of things and their identities. True names confer vast 
power over the named, for those who understand how to use the name properly. 
It takes time to master true names, but then mummies have plenty of time.. .. 
Many things have overlapping names. Each intelligent creature has a 
unique name for itself. Thus there’s a ren for each species and element. Each 
part of the body has its own true name, as do qualities like emotions, and the 
conditions that make supernatural beings what they are. The ren of a place - 
a city, a continent and so on - 
has some consequence for each thing that 
resides within it. The following effects discuss this overlap where it’s relevant. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


LEARNING TRUE NAMES 
A basic student of Nomenclature knows three true names. Learning more 
requires study with an appropriate instructor, and generally a Static Mental 
Challenge against six Traits. The Storyteller may allow the acquisition of a new 
ren for three Experience Traits, or fold it into the course of a story with or 
without that required expenditure. It takes time to study and master a ren, 
which is often complex, and it requires knowledge of how the thing is made and 
functions. A mummy must know how to make armor before he can learn the 
ren for armor, and so on. Use these categories as guidelines. 
True Name 
CategoryRequired 
Simple animal 
(dung beetle, cobra) 
Simple element 
(sand, granite) 
Complex animal 
(ape, cat) 
Complex element 
(steel, diamond) 
Simple hand weapon 
(club, mace) 
Simple projective weapons (bow, sling) 
Complex hand-weapon 
(steel sword, obsidian knife) 
Complex projectile weapon (pistol, crossbow) 
Personal name 
Simple supernatural name (ghoul, minor spirit) 
Complex supernatural name (vampire, mummy) 
Ability Traits 
Animal Ken 
Science 
Animal Ken x 2 or 
greater 
Science x 2 or greater 
Melee and materials 
Athletics and materials 
Melee x 2 or greater 
and materials 
Firearms and materials 
Subterfuge 
Occult 
Occult x 2 or greater 
and personal name 
BASIC NOMENCLATURE 
ASKING THE TREES 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: None 
Plants have simple true names, and with asuccessful Social Challenge, the 
scribe needs only simple utterances to make them obey her. This spell allows 
her to command plants to grow rapidly, die off, make simple motions, entangle 
a target, flex to hide or reveal tracks, and so on. The commanded plants cannot 
move around, but they can exert themselves as far as their physical limitations 
allow. This Hekau calls for Survival for its retests. 
BECOMING THE STONE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The scribe draws on his mastery of the names for substance and 
transformation to identify himself with the name of a desired metal or mineral, 
and he makes a Mental Challenge. The transformed self has the same volume 
as before and can occupy any simple continuous form that the scribe chooses. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


capability for movement - 
he could tip himself over a cliff, but that’s about 
it. The scribe has six Stamina-related Traits and does not need air, and he 
cannot be destroyed, short of someone ripping the stone or metal apart and 
scattering the pieces. Becoming the Stone uses Science for retests. 
Success lets the scribe take on a simple form like rough-hewn rock or a pile 
of stones. Spend one additional Mental Trait to allow for precise planes and 
angles, such as those in a collection of cut gemstones, or two Mental Traits for 
the precision necessary for a few swords or a suit of armor. No additional Traits 
are needed to turn into a fine dust. The transformation lasts for one hour, at the 
end of which the scribe may spend one Sekhem to extend it another hour (and 
can keep doing so as long as his Sekhem lasts). The mummy may end his 
transformation any time he likes. 
BECOMING THE TREE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The scribe combines the name of a plant and a word to her own body to 
becomeaspecific typeofliving vegetation (withasuccessfulMentalChallenge). 
The result has about the same mass as the scribe, so that depending on the plant 
in question, the mummy may become a single tree, a small cluster of bushes, or 
a fairly expansive field of grass or seaweed. The transformation takes place 
gradually throughout the duration of the ritual, and lasts for one hour after its 
completion. The scribe may spend one Sekhem Trait to extend it for another 
hour (and repeat this as long as her Sekhem lasts), or end it whenever she 
chooses. Reverting to normal form takes one minute. 
While in plant form, the scribe retains all her senses (despite the lack of 
customary sense organs) and her mental faculties. She can exert only very 
limited physical motion, such as making grass bend as if in a breeze. On the 
other hand, she is usually very difficult to damage. Note that the plant form has 
the same health levels and Stamina-related Traits as the scribe usually does. A 
wounded mummy becomes an obviously injured plant, and damage she suffers 
while in plant form stays with her after she returns to normal. Becoming the Tree 
uses Suwival for its retests. 
CLOUD THE NAME 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: None 
This unique Hekau allows a mummy to study a personal ren over the course 
of an hour and join the word of transformation to it, causing the ren to change, 
with a successful Static Mental Challenge. The scribe has no idea how the 
name will change or the effect it will have on the target. She may be able to 
slightly influence the change for the good or bad, but there’s no guarantee that 
her intent will actually happen. It’s up to the Storyteller to determine how 
Cloud the Name has affected the ren in question - 
it may be something as 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


simple as changing a favorite color or preferring a different nickname, or as 
profound as a shift in general Demeanor. Such minor shifts may have far- 
reaching effects - 
some occultists believe that changing a name’s spelling or 
a preferred color may have a psychic impact - 
but at the very least, it ensures 
that the target has a new ren, which must be relearned (even by the scribe). 
Clod the Name uses Divination for its retest. 
Due to the potentially unbalancing effects of this Hekau and the difficulty 
of bringing it in play, the Storyteller is within her rights to disallow it in her 
chronicle. 
COMMAND THE BEAST 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The scribe speaks an animal’s true name and a word of command, followed 
by a Social Challenge. If successful, the creature follows the mummy’s verbal 
commands for one hour. The animal does not understand complex commands 
and suffers confusion if its instructions are unclear, though it does its best to 
honor the mummy’s intent. The mummy can relinquish control at any time 
(after which the animal usually flees), or he can spend one Sekhem to extend 
control for another hour. The mummy must win a contest of Willpower if the 
animal is under control of some other supernatural entity. This spell retests 
with Animal Ken. 
FORGETTING THE STONE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The scribe utters the true name of a stone or metal, adds a word describing 
the specific piece he’s targeting, and then speaks a phrase that removes it from 
the Book of Thoth. That particular piece, up to one cubic yard of material, 
vanishes from existence, never to be seen again. A successful Mental Challenge 
is needed to perform this spell, which uses Science for its retest. 
FORGETTING THE TREE 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
This spell works like Forgetting the Stone on a specific piece of vegetation, 
up to a cubic yard’s worth. Some examples are a wooden door, a stretch of 
garden, or even a small tree. It uses Survivul for its retest. 
MEND FLESH 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The mummy speaks the ren of flesh and a word of healing, followed by a 
Mental Challenge. If successful, the target immediately regains one health 
level, whether lost to bashing, lethal or aggravated damage. The mummy may 
heal additional bashing and lethal damage at the rate of one additional Mental 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


can affect anyone in the scribe’s line of sight, but works only & real living 
tissue. This spell uses Medicine for its retest. 
NAME THE SECRET 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Sekhem: None 
The scribe analyzes properties of a target’s true name over the course of 
hours, days or years and identifies hidden qualities of the creature described in 
its true name. Studying a piece of vegetation or an element requires an hour’s 
examination. The implications of an animal or normal human true name 
require a day to study. The true name of a supernatural entity or metaphysical 
concept (like a spell) can take months to years of study, at the Storyteller’s 
discretion. At the end of the study period, the scribe makes a Static Mental 
Challenge. The results in each case depend on the scribe’s focus. A search for 
weakness identifies the target’s weakest aspect or Trait, such as a serious Flaw, 
a very low Attribute or comparable vulnerability. A search for hidden strength 
reveals the target’s Willpower rating or an important power that the subject 
hasn’t yet demonstrated. Name the Secret uses Divination for its retest. 
NAMING THE WARNING 
Type: Spell 
Difficulty: Varies 
Sekhem: None 
The scribe can force an animal into flight or submission merely by 
speaking its name and demonstrating her power over it, followed by a Static 
Social Challenge. An animal commanded to flee makes its best effort to escape, 
but it fights if cornered; an animal ordered to submit cowers close to the scribe, 
fearful of punishment. 
It’s easier to affect common animals than animals under supernatural 
control, or the animal forms of supernatural beings - 
their true names include 
the animal nature, and much more, and thus are harder to control. The 
difficulty for this spell is five Traits for common animals, seven Traits for 
supernaturally influenced animals, or nine Traits for the animal forms of 
supernatural beings. Fully intelligent animals have their own individual ren 
and are not affected at all. This spell uses Animal Ken for its retest. 
INTERMEDIATE NOMENCLATURE 
BECOME ANIMAL 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
The mummy speaks a word of self, a word of transformation, and the ren 
of an animal, and shifts into that form over the course of the spell (if he 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


- -  
of animal he wants to become, and it’s difficult to learn the renof mythic beasts, 
extinct species and other exotic animals. He retains his capacity for thought, 
but relies on the animal’s physical abilities. 
The mummy can safely stay in animal form up to one day per Balance 
Trait. After that, he must make a Willpower Challenge against the number of 
days he’s been in animal form each sunrise. A failure reduces his Mental Trait 
total and each of his mental abilities by one level. Once this descent begins, it’s 
very difficult to break out of it. The mummy can attempt one Willpower Test 
each new moon, with a difficulty of nine Traits, to regain his natural form. 
Otherwise, he declines into the animal’s condition permanently. This spell 
uses Animal Ken Ability for its retest. 
Unlike most Nomenclature spells, Become Animal works in the Underworld 
as well as in the material world. 
COMMAND THOUGHT 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 2 
This spell lets the scribe use a thinking being’s ren to compel obedience. 
If she succeeds in a Mental Challenge, the scribe’s verbal commands become 
orders that the subject must carry out to the best of his ability. The target can 
make a separate Willpower Challenge to try to break free after an order that is 
clearly suicidal or directly contrary to his Nature. Command Thought lasts for 
one turn, plus an additional turn for each Mental Trait spent. The scribe must 
cast the spell again to preserve control if she wants to give long-term orders, and 
if the subject is in the middle of an action when the spell lapses, he is under no 
obligation to complete it. Command Thought uses Occult for its retest. 
ENSLAVE 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Target’s Willpower 
Sekhem: 3 
This ritual creates more lasting effects thanCommand Thought, at the cost 
of greater time to prepare and cast. If the Static Social Challenge succeeds, the 
target becomes the abject slave of the scribe, devoted to his every whim, even 
to the point of considering suicidal orders and ones counter to the subject’s 
long-term interests and morals. When not under specific instructions, the 
subject feels a strong desire to attend to the scribe’s general welfare, and acts 
even without particular orders to keep the scribe safe and prosperous. 
The effects last for one day, plus an additional day for each Social Trait 
spent. The subject retains full recollection of what happened after the effects 
wear off, but doesn’t automatically realize that the compulsion was magical - 
in fact, he might come up with every other excuse but magic. A mistreated 
target almost certainly turns on the mummy in retaliation. This ritual can only 
affect the living, and uses Occult for its retest. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


NAME OF HEKAU 
Type: Spell 
Difficulty: 5 for Basic Hekau, 7 for Intermediate Hekau, 9 for Advanced 
Sekhem: 1 + target Hekau’s cost 
This spell requires the scribe to learn the true name of a Hekau or other 
power he knows, by Name the Secret or other means. The mummy speaks the 
Hekau’s ren, a word for the particular target, and the word of forgetting, 
followed by a Static Mental Challenge. If successful, Name of Hekau cancels 
out the effect of a particular Hekau on that target. If the effect involves 
spending additional Traits or otherwise boosting the basic result, the scribe 
must spend additional Mental Traits to match. If he spends less than the full 
total, he produces a partial negation. For instance, it takes the basic success plus 
four Traits to neutralize Advanced Potence for one turn, while the basic success 
plus two Traits reduces the target’s effective rating to second Basic Potence. 
This spell cannot counter the results of other spells that take effect 
instantly, but leave lasting results, like healing spells. Normally constant 
powers suffer the Name the Hekau penalty for three turns. Treat levels of Blood, 
Willpower and the like as each equivalent to one Sekhem Trait for figuring out 
how much this spell costs the scribe. If he can speak the incantation, the 
mummy can negate one of his own spells automatically for one Sekhem (even 
one such as Become Animal, which he could not normally overcome). This 
Hekau uses Occult for its retest. 
Hekau 
WHISPERING TO THE HEART 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 1 
The scribe looks at her target and speaks a single word to induce apowerful 
emotion - 
fear, lust, anger, love, compassion, hope, despair, boredom and the 
like - 
and makes a Social Challenge. Each emotion has its own true name that 
the scribe must learn beforehand. The subject is completely dominated by the 
emotion for one turn and continues to feel it strongly for the next minute. The 
scribe can extend the effect by spending an additional Sekhem each minute. 
For purposes of challenge, apply the scribe’s Balance rating as a Trait bonus or 
penalty as appropriate. It allows the target to accomplish otherwise difficult or 
impossible deeds because of the emotion, but also makes it very difficult to resist 
exploits using the emotion. 
Whispers to the Heart can counteract the effects of supernatural persuasion. 
Hate, for instance, can negate unnaturally inspired love, while courage can 
cancel out supernatural dread. The scribe may use this spell on herself, but it 
affects only living beings. The spell uses Occult for its retest. 
FORTIFY FLESH 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Sekhem: 2 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


With a successful Static Mental Challenge, the scribe gives the target’s 
flesh the consistency and hardness of stone. It still looks like flesh, but feels 
stony and provides one level of armor for every two Balance Traits the scribe 
possesses (rounded up). This protection extends to aggravated damage (as well 
as more mundane damage), and lasts until the next sunrise or sunset, whichever 
comes first. The scribe cannot revoke this spell voluntarily - 
if the subject 
needs to pierce or cut her skin for whatever reason, the cut must overcome the 
fortified flesh’s resistance. This ritual affects only living physical bodies. It uses 
Occult for its retest. 
NAMING THE BODY’S DESTRUCTION 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Variable 
Sekhem: Variable 
In addition to the unique individual ren that every thinking being 
possesses, generic ren describe each part of the body. This spell lets the scribe 
combine one of those names with a word of targeting and a word of forgetting 
to make that part of the target’s body wither and disappear, with a successful 
Static Mental Challenge. The difficulty and cost depend on the organ named. 
Trivial loss (6 Traits, 2 Sekhem): Applies to organs like ears, eyes, hands, 
kneecaps and the like. The victim suffers one level of aggravated damage, but 
the loss is seldom fatal unless the victim was already close to death. 
Serious loss (7 Traits, 3 Sekhem): Applies to major organs like lungs, 
kidneys, the intestines and other significant chunks of organ tissue. The victim 
suffers three levels of aggravated damage and needs medical attention to avoid 
death. Each turn, until medical help arrives, the victim must succeed in a 
physical challenge, and failure inflicts a level of lethal damage stemming from 
the body’s inability to function without the organ. Even once help arrives, it 
may take a miracle or magic to keep the victim alive. 
Critical loss (8 Traits, 5 Sekhem): Applies to the heart and brain. The 
victim suffers seven levels of aggravated damage, and most likely dies on the 
spot. If he survives, he must make the per-turn check described above for 
serious losses. 
This spell bypasses armor and shields that aren’t specifically designed to 
stop spells, and it leaves no external wounds. The missing organ is just gone as 
if it were never there. At the Storyteller’s discretion, visible losses may cost the 
victim one or more Appearance-related Trait, and have other appropriate side 
effects. A person with no knees, for instance, cannot stand without external 
support. 
Note that not all victims suffer equally. A vampire doesn’t need any 
internal organs but its heart, and a jellyfish has no brain to lose. The Storyteller 
may adjust critical losses down to serious, and serious losses to trivial, depending 
on the specific circumstances. The spell affects only physical bodies, so wraiths 
and other spirits need not fear it. Naming the Body’s Destruction uses the 
Medicine Ability for its retest. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SPEAKING ALL NAMES 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Sekhem: 1 
This ritual lets the scribe understand the rudiments of another language 
by analysis of its names. She must have a sample of at least 50 words (at the 
Storyteller’s discretion), and the casting time may double or increase even 
more for unusually complex, alien and dead languages. A successful Static 
Mental Challenge gives the mummy an understanding of basic words and 
phrases. She may spend one Mental Trait for simple conversational fluency, or 
two for passable fluency. Note that the scribe also automatically gains the 
knowledge of the language’s term for ren she knows: If she knows the ren for 
“lion,” for instance, she can identify “lion” in the language she’s studying, apart 
from her overall mastery of it. This unusual ritual uses Linguistics for its retest. 
ADVANCED NOMENCLATURE 
FORGETTING THE PERSON 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 30 
This is the consummation of the art of naming applied to destruction. 
With a successful Static Mental Challenge, the scribe erases a person’s true 
name from the Book of Thoth. All trace of the person vanishes - 
memories, 
records and all. Even those who were closest to the victim remember the now- 
vanished person with only the greatest of effort. This ritual certainly disrupts 
the balance of the universe and costs the scribe one permanent Balance Trait. 
Obviously, the Judges of Ma’at will be very interested to hear the mummy’s 
reasons for using this, and they had better be good ones. So far no scribe has 
found a way to reverse the ritual’s effects. This ritual uses Occult for its retest. 
PTAH’S WORD 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Sekhem: 8 
This ritual marks the opposite end of the naming art from Forgetting the 
Person, its full creative power. The scribe speaks the name of an inanimate 
object of mass equal to or less than her own, and if the ritual succeeds (a 
successful Static Mental Challenge), that thing immediately materializes in a 
space touching her - 
in her hand, underfoot, or adjacent to her, but not inside 
anything or anyone else. Once it appears, as far as the universe is concerned, 
it’s always been there and therefore it cannot be dispelled like other summoned 
objects. The scribe must know how to make the object in question, and many 
modem objects have ren that no scribe has yet discovered. Ancient Egyptian 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Occult for its retest. 
WHISPERS TO THE BODY 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 5 
The scribe speaks his own ren and a word of transformation, and turns into 
any form he desires. As long as he can describe the terms of what he wants his 
body to do, he can attempt the transformation. Stretching, compressing, taking 
on someone else’s appearance, turning into a puddle of liquid.. . the possibilities 
are nearly endless. They last for one hour after a successful casting, which 
includes a successful Mental Challenge. 
This spell can add up to three levels of armor, whether through toughened 
skin, abnormal flexibility and defensive speed, or some other means, and can 
let the scribe’s limbs inflict an additional level of lethal damage. Actually 
separating the body can have serious consequences, though. Use the guidelines 
for Naming the Body’s Destruction. 
Whispers to the Body works equally well on either side of the Shroud and 
uses Occult for its retest. 
WORD OF AUTHORITY 
Type: Spell 
Sekhem: 4 
The scribe speaks the word for self and the word for authority, taking on the 
majesty of the pharaohs, ifher Social Challenge is successful. She then speaks one 
sentence. Everyone within earshot (whether she can see them or not) who fails 
to resist must try to obey it to the best of their ability. They have the opportunity 
to resist with a Willpower Challenge; those who do not succeed obey the order 
without questionor hesitation. The sentence uttered can be complex, but it must 
be something that requires the listeners to do something. It cannot be contingent 
or time-delayed. Individuals confronted with the risk of self-destruction or 
violation of their Nature may make a separate Willpower challenge to break free. 
Word of Authonty uses Leadership for its retest. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Rules are an integral part of any game; they define what characters can 
and cannot do. Only when confrontation does occur are rules necessary to 
govern those situations. Still, the primary focus of this game is to tell a good 
story. 
There comes a time when two or more players come into a conflict that 
cannot be resolved through roleplaying alone. The system detailed in this 
chapter allows for the resolution of conflicts efficiently and quickly. This sort 
of face-off is called a challenge, and it makes for a simple system of conflict 
resolution. In most cases, a Narrator does not even need to be present when 
a challenge is played. 
Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins; 
in fact, roleplaying becomes more important than ever if players intend to 
enjoy a confrontation and avoid disputes. Experienced players can integrate 
a challenge into their roleplaying so seamlessly that outsiders don’t even 
know that anything unusual is going on. At the players’ option, special hand 
signals can be used to indicate when certain Traits and powers are being 
employed. 
In order for this system to work, players need to work together. They have 
to educate each other on the rules and agree on what Traits can be used in a 
challenge. Compromise and cooperation are the words of the game. Arguments 
over whether or not a particular Trait bid is appropriate wreck the momentum 
and the mood of a game. 
USING TRAITS 
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first 
understand what defines a character’s capabilities. A character is created by 
choosing anumber of adjectives that describe and define him as an individual. 
These adjectives are called Traits, and they are described fully in Chapter 
Three. These Traits are used to declare challenges against other characters or 
against static forces represented by a Narrator. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


INITIAL BID 
A challenge begins with a player “bidding” one of her Traits against her 
opponent. At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the 
challenge are - 
like firing a gun, attacking with a knife or using Hekau. The 
defender must then decide how she responds. She can either relent immediately 
or bid one of her own Traits. 
When players bid Traits against one another, they may use only Traits 
that could sensibly be used in that situation. This restriction means that a 
player can generally use only those Traits from the same category as her 
opponent’s Traits. Most challenges are categorized as Physical, Social or 
Mental, and all Traits used in a challenge must be from the same category. 
Experienced players may offer each other more creative leeway, but only by 
mutual agreement. 
If the defender relents, she loses the challenge automatically. For 
example, if she were being attacked, she suffers a wound. If she matches the 
challenger’s bid, the two immediately go to a test. Those Traits bid are put at 
risk, as the loser of the test not only loses the challenge, but also the Trait she 
bid for the rest of the evening. 
TSTING 
Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they engage 
in a test. The test itself is not what you may think- the outcome is random, 
but no cards or dice are used. The two players face off against one another by 
playing Rock-Paper+Scissors. 
If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the duration of the 
session (usually the rest of the evening). Essentially, you have lost some 
confidence in your own capabilities and can’t call on them for a while. You 
can no longer use that Trait effectively, at least until you regain confidence 
in your Traits. 
The test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over 
and the winner is declared. The test produces one of two possible outcomes 
- o n e  player is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
In the case of a tie, players must then reveal the number of Traits that 
they currently have available in the category used (Physical, Social or 
Mental). The player with the IeastnumberofTraits loses the test and thus the 
challenge. Note that the number of Traits you’ve lost in previous challenges, 
or lost for any other reason, reduces the maximum number of Traits you can 
bid in ties. You may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only by 
declaring fewer Traits than you actually have -you 
may never say that you 
have more Traits than you actually do. Doing so allows you to keep the actual 
number of Traits you possess a secret, although doing so may be risky. The 
challenger is always the first to declare his number of Traits. If both players 
declare the same number of Traits, then the challenge is a draw, and both 
players lose the Traits they bid. 
Example of Play: Ham& encounters a vampire attempting to drink from a 
college student outside a local coffee shop. Ohiously this outrage to Ma’at cannot 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


go unanswered, and Hamziz shouts a warning to the girl. Both vampire and student 
are distracted, and the student recovers enoughability toke. The vampire, initated 
at his lost meal, turns on Hamziz (“Since you cost me my night’s sustenance, I’ll 
Brutally take it j?om you!”). The Amenti, however, is not afraid and responds 
(“You can try, but I’m Wiry enough to avoid you!”). The two players go to a test, 
and both shoot Rock- 
a tie. Now they must declare their total Traits to decide the 
tie. Ham& is more experienced than he looks, and declares he has 12 Physical 
Traits. The vampire gulps and reveals his total offive Traits. Looks like he’ll be going 
hungry tonight.. . . 
ROCK-PAPER-SCISSORS 
however, they must explain what they are and how they are used. 
ADJUDICATION 
If you have question or argument about the rules or the conditions of a 
challenge, you need to find a Narrator to make a judgment. Try to remain in 
character while you look for a Narrator. Any interruption in the progress of 
the story should be avoided if at all possible, so work out problems with other 
players if you can. If you do not know the correct application of a certain rule, 
it’s usually better to wing it rather than interrupt the flow of the game. 
It should be noted that a challenger who fails on a Social or Mental 
Challenge must wait at least five real-time minutes before repeating the failed 
challenge (and don’t waste them arguing over the results of the previous 
challenge- you can’t protest aruling with aNarrator for 458, 
thendrop your 
argument and say, “Oh look, time’s up,”). This rule includes supernatural 
powers that use Mental or Social Challenges, unless they specify otherwise. 
A character cannot continue attempting one challenge after another until he 
finally succeeds. This stricture does not include tests that are failed but then 
redeemed through retests or overbids. 
COMPLICATIONS 
There are a number of ways in which a challenge can be made more 
complicated. The basic rules are enough to resolve most disputes, but the 
following rules add a few bells and whistles. 
NEGATIVE TRAITS 
Many characters have Negative Traits, Traits that can be used against a 
character by his opponent. During the initial bid of any challenge, after you 
have each bid one Trait, you can call out a Negative Trait that you believe 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


your opponent possesses. If he does indeed possess the Negative Trait, your 
opponent is forced to bid an additional Trait, although you must stilt risk your 
one Trait as usual. If he does not possess that Negative Trait, you must risk an 
additional Trait. You may call out as many Negative Traits as you wish during 
the initial bid phase of a challenge, as long as you can pay the price for being 
wrong. 
If your opponent does not have additional Traits to bid, then your Trait 
is not at risk during the challenge. Additionally, if you guess more than one 
Negative Trait that your opponent cannot match, you gain that many 
additional Traits in the case of a tie or an overbid (see page below). The same 
works in reverse, favoring your opponent if you do not have additional Traits 
remaining to match incorrect Negative Trait guesses. It is considered very 
cheap to list off which Negative Traits a player might possess, if you have no 
valid reason to suspect as much in-game. 
Example of Play: Shadar, aMesketet, is in the middle ofbuttk with Intisar, 
an Amkhut cannibal cultist. He makes an initial bid (“I make u Ferocious attack 
with this hundy rake!”), while lntisar kcides to return enmity fur enmity (“I’m 
Nimble enough toget out ofthe way!”). S u r  thensuggests that Intisarpossesses 
a particular Negative Trait (“I’m amazed you’ve stayed on this long - 
I thought 
you would have retreated in your usual Cowardly fashion”). Shadar guessed 
correctly - 
Intisar does indeed possess that Negative Trait, and now she must bid 
an additional Trait (“Perhaps, but it’s easy to brave when I’m Quick enough to 
avoid you”). If Shadar had been wrong, it would huve been up to him to bid an extra 
Trait to continue the challenge. 
It can be risky to bid Negative Traits, but if you’re sure about what you’re 
doing, you can raise the stakes for your opponent, possibly to the point where 
she relents rather than risking additional Traits. 
OVERBIDDING 
Overbidding is the system by which powerful characters may prevail in 
achallenge, even if they lose the initial test. The elder with 16 Physical Traits 
should be able to crush the whelp who has only three. This system is designed 
to make that possible. 
Once a test has been made, the loser has the option of calling for an 
“overbid.” In order to call an overbid, you must risk a new Trait; the original 
one has already been lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the 
number of applicable Traits they possess in the appropriate category, starting 
with the player who called for the overbid. If you have double the number of 
Traits as your opponent in that category, you may attempt another test. As 
with a tie, you may state a number of Traits less than the actual number you 
have and keep your true power secret. Overbidding can be dangerous unless 
you are confident in your estimation of your opponent’s abilities. 
Example of Play: Edward, a scholar from the Arcunum, suspects there’s 
mure to the new librarian than meets the eye, and he attempts to coax information 
from her. He begins with flattery (“My praise is so Beguiling that you ure suitably 
moved to respond in kind to me”). The librarian, a Khri-hubi named Beth, resists 
(“Oh, please - 
I’m too Dignified to play that kind ofgame”). They test and Beth 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


wins, but Edward refuses to give up. He’s noted that Beth is unusuully quiet,and 
suspects that she is even less sociuIIy apt than his own bookish self, so he blds an 
additional Trait (“But, dear Miss Beth, I’ve learned how to be quite Persuasive 
whennecessary”) andcalls for anwerbid. Since Bethis defending, she does not need 
to risk an additional Trait. Edward declares he has eight Social Traits, and Beth 
reveals thut she has six, and the overbid proceeds. They test again, and this time 
Edward wins. Beth loses her Dignified Trait, Edward loses his Beguiling Trait, 
but he won the final challenge, and Beth is trying to figure out how long she can hold 
out against this nosy gent.. . . 
STATIC CHALLENGES 
Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge against a Narrator 
rather than against another player. For example, a hacker may use a Static 
Mental Challenge with the Computer Ability to break into another computer 
system. In such circumstances, you bid a Trait that is appropriate, then 
perform a test against the Narrator. Before the test is made, the Narrator 
decides on the difficulty of the task that you are attempting - 
this is the 
number of Traits you are bidding against, which is used to compare in the 
event of a tie. The test proceeds exactly as if you were testing against another 
character. Of course, you may attempt to overbid in a Static Challenge, but 
beware, because the Narrator can overbid as well. The number of Traits 
attached to the challenge should represent the difficulty and danger inherent 
in the challenge. 
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books, doors or 
even magical items. These notes indicate the type of challenges that must be 
won for something to occur (such as deciphering a tome or picking a lock). 
SIMPLE TESTS 
Simple Tests are used to determine if you can do something successfully 
when there is no real opposition. Most Simple Tests do not require you to risk 
or bid Traits, though some do. 
When a Simple Test is called, a test (Rock-Paper-Scissors) is performed 
against a Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds on a win or a tie, 
although in some cases, it may be necessary for the player to win for him to 
receive any benefit from the challenge. 
RETESTS 
Certain Traits allow a character to retest. A retest allows a character to 
ignore the results of the first test and test again for a new result. Retests are 
most commonly gained through Abilities, but other Traits may also provide 
them; such Traits are noted in their descriptions. Expending one level of an 
appropriate Ability allows for one retest. 
Multiple retests are possible on a single challenge, but each retest must 
come from a different source. A character may retest a challenge once using 
alevel ofBrawIand thenretest again through theMerit: Lucky (Bes’ Blessing), 
but he may not gain multiple retests with the Bruwl Ability on the same 
challenge. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Retests may be canceled (“blocked”) by a character capable of matching 
the conditions of the retest. Thus, if a player uses Fiream toretest when firing 
a gun, the opponent may expend a level of Dodge to block the retest and force 
the attacker to accept the results of the original test. 
Example of Play: Kalem, an Amkhut cultist, is holding Rebecca, a human 
reporter, hostage, hoping to lure her Amenti lower into rescuing her. Rebecca, 
however, is not a shrinking wiolet, and when Kukm is distracted by an outside noise, 
she takes the opportunity to grab the gun from his hand (“While you’re distracted, 
I’ll Quickly grab your pistol!”), Kalem responds by trying to keep hold of his prize 
(“No you don’t! I’m Brawny enough to hung on!”). They perfm a test, and 
Kalem loses. Nowarned, Rebeccaseeks tofireashot (“Now, 1’11 use theudvantuge 
of my Clever planning to shoot you!”), but Kalem is seeking cover (“I use my 
Nimble refixes toget behindsomefurniture!”) . Another testfollows, and this time 
Rebecca loses. But she has hundled a gun before (“I know enough about Firearms 
not to let you get away!”), and she calls fw a retest. The two test again, and chis 
time she wins. Kakm howls in pain from the bullet he takes in his left leg. 
Kalem tries to take back his gun (“My leg hurts like anything, but I’m still 
Dexterous enough to take the gun from you.”). Rebecca bucks away instead, 
wanting mly to get away ( “The door’s behind me, and I’m Quickly retreating! ”) , 
and the two make another test. Kulem loses, and immediately calls for aretest with 
Brawl (“I’m not afraid to Brawl with anyone, especially a woman!”). Rebecca 
blocks the retest with Dodge (“That may be, but I’ll still Dodge you!”), and no 
retest is mude. Rebecca, still armed, has now got her back to the door and is trying 
to get out. 
RELENTING 
At any time before the actual test is performed, a player may choose to 
admit defeat. Characters who relent lose the challenge automatically, but 
they do not lose any Traits, even if they bid one before relenting. They also 
help the game flow along more smoothly than extended Rock+Paper-Scissors 
matches do. 
BONUS TRAITS 
Certain weapons and special powers grant a character bonus Traits 
during a challenge. You may add these extra Traits toward a character’s total 
when determining a tie involving that weapon or special Ability. 
ORDEROF CHALLENGES 
Since multiple challenges inevitably occur simultaneously during any 
given fight, the Narrator needs some means of determining who acts first and 
who acts last. Each person involved in a given game-turn checks the current 
number of Traits appropriate to the action he wishes to attempt. A character 
punching someone uses Physical Traits to determine speed, while a character 
casting a spell probably uses Mental Traits. If an action does not require any 
sort ofTrait challenge, it occurs last in the turn. As with overbidding, you may 
declare fewer Traits than you possess if you wish. Characters with equal 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


numbers of Traits are assumed to go “simultaneously,” though for resolution 
purposes, the Narrator may simply choose one to act first. 
Sometimes a character with a high number of Traits attacks a character 
with fewer Traits, who will decide to strike back. In this case, the character 
with fewer Traits resolves his action in the same test as the faster character, 
but in doing so, he loses the ability to take any aggressive action for the turn 
-he 
uses up his one action with the counterattack. 
This rule can occasionally cause as much confusion as it’s trying to solve, 
and the Narrator may choose to apply this only when there is a debate or other 
critical need to establish who’s going first. 
Example of Play: Kalem is still in pursuit of Rebecca, knowing that she’s his 
best chance of catching the Amenti. Just then, Shadar, the would-be prey, makes 
his way into the house and comes on the scene with Rebecca and Kakm. Kalem has 
seven Traits left and Shudur (though windedfrom his earlier battle with Intisar) has 
nine Traits. Shudur leaps in front of Rebecca, blocking her from Kalem (“I’m too 
Stalwart for you to pass me!”), and Kalem, suddenly feeling hungry, decides to 
attack his meal right then (Til Ferociously take some of your flesh for my 
hunger!”). They go to a test, and S M r  loses, sufferinga bite wound. Kalem has 
used up his action for this turn by attacking Shadar, so he can’t do anything else at 
the moment. Rebecca, meanwhile, ispreparingtoshoot thecultistaguin, hopingthut 
it won’t require “third time’s the cham” to put him doeon.. . . 
THE MOB SCENE 
Sooner or later, a large group of characters decides to mix it up. Group 
challenges seem intimidating even to experiencedNarrators and Storytellers, 
but these rules are meant to streamline the process and make such situations 
easier to resolve, rather than devolving into endless matches of Rock-Paper- 
Scissors. 
First of all, find who is challenging whom. The easiest way is to count to 
three and have everyone point to the person they wish to target that turn. If 
no one is being challenged by more than one person, then challenges are 
carried out normally. 
If one character is challenged by several targets, or tries to challenge 
multiple opponents at once, resolve it in the following manner. First deal with 
groups in the order of largest to smallest, just for ease of play. Each attacker 
must bid an appropriate Trait as normal for the challenge required; logistics 
put a limit of up to five characters attacking another character at once. 
Next, the defender character must bid enough Traits to counter every 
opponent in the group; if he does not have enough Traits, he must relent to 
the rest of his opponents (although he may choose which ones he relents to). 
Resolve such relented challenges first - 
it is very possible that the defender 
may fall before the rest of the group can act! 
Finally, the defender and any remaining attackers engage in one 
simultaneous test. The defender then compares his sign to each of the 
attacker’s signs, applying the appropriate results. Thus, if the defending 
character throws Scissors and his attackers throw Rock, Scissors, Paper and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Paper, the defender is considered to have lost to the first challenger, tied the 
second (resolved like any other tie) and beaten the last two. The defenders 
and attackers lose Traits bid in any given loss. If the defender in the previous 
example had bid one Trait against every attacker, he would have lost one 
Trait to the first attacker, and an additional Trait if he had lost the tie as well. 
Once the tests have been made, they are resolved in the standard order 
of actions and initiative. It is possible for a defender to lose Traits to the first 
attackers and then lose a tie to an attacker later in the same mob challenge. 
That’s OK - 
the first attackers “softened up” the defender. However, unless 
the defender has a special power which allows him to take multiple actions, 
he may only attempt to injure one of his attackers, and it must be one who lost 
a challenge. If none of the attackers lose, the defender simply suffers the 
results of their actions. 
When the defender in a mob challenge uses Abilities or other powers to 
gain retests, each attacker’s challenge is treated as a separate test. Thus, a 
defender needs five Melee Traits in order to retest against five attackers in a 
melee combat. 
TIME 
Time inMind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real life. It moves forward 
inexorably, relentlessly. For the most part, everything is played out in real 
time, and players are expected to stay in character unless they have a rules 
question. 
It is assumed that a player is always “in character” during the course of a 
story. A player should never drop character when interacting with other 
players. Doing so ruins the atmosphere for everyone involved. Challenges 
may be talked through, but a player is always considered to be active in the 
game. If a player needs to take a break, he should inform a Narrator. That 
player should not interact with any of the other players while out of character. 
The only other exception to the “in-character rule” is when a Narrator 
calls for a “timeout.” This call may be necessary to resolve a dispute or to 
change the scene if the story callsfor it. When“Timeout!” is called, all players 
within hearing distance must stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator 
calls “Resume” or “Lay on!”Timeouts should be kept to a minimum since they 
interrupt the flow of the story. 
CHRONICLES. STORIES. SESSIONS AND SCENES 
Mind’s Eye Theatre time breaks down into five major allotments: 
chronicles, stories, sessions, scenes and turns. A chronicle is defined as a series 
of smaller stories that are all connected somehow, and which may take 
months or years to complete. Each complete plotline within the chronicle is 
called a story. A session is just that: one actual night of play, although 
Storytellers may define a session as one night of game time if the action was 
left inmediares at the end of the previous game. (Since many characters regain 
spent Traits in-between sessions, this distinction can be important.) A scene 
is the time it takes to resolve the action in one location. Once the characters 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


shift locations, the scene has ended. If a session is to take place entirely at one 
location, a scene can then be defined as roughly one hour. 
TURNS 
To keep everything straight when players start throwing challenges 
around or attempting complex actions, the time is right to start using turns. 
Turns are considered to last about four seconds, although this measure may 
vary from challenge to challenge at the Storyteller’s discretion. In any given 
turn, a character may take one action. Some actions may take multiple turns 
to complete, such as hacking a sophisticated computer system. Other actions, 
like speaking a short sentence, do not use up a character’s turn at all. Once 
everyone involved in a turn has taken an action, the turn ends and another 
begins. 
In some instances a character may be interrupted before he can take his 
action, or be forced to respond to events developing around him. In such 
instances, a character may always defend himself, although doing so uses up 
his available action for the turn. 
If a power affects a character for 15 seconds, it is assumed to be in effect 
for four turns when turn-based time is in effect. In normal roleplaying, such 
powers work for their allotted amount of time. 
DOWNTIME 
Many aspects of a character’s unlife are critical to her continued 
existence, yet they do not make for dramatic roleplaying, or they are too 
intricate to take time during sessions to perform. Storytellers are encouraged 
to use “downtime” between sessions to allow characters to maintain their 
holdings, learn Disciplines and see to other facets of their existence. Other 
actions and interactions may take place during this time, with Storyteller 
supervision. As long as players don’t abuse downtime privileges, the time 
between sessions can be a rewarding roleplaying experience in itself. 
COMBAT 
The basics of combat are simple. As with any other challenge, the 
participants agree on the opposing possible outcomes, each player bids an 
appropriate Trait, and they perform a test to determine the victor. What 
follows are the complications that distinguish combat from other challenges. 
The most common outcome of a combat challenge is that the loser takes 
the damage suitable for the attacker’s choice of weapon and supporting 
factors, such as damage-enhancing magic. This isn’t the only possible 
outcome, however. The participants may agree that victory includes wrestling 
an opponent to the ground, or subduing a target rather than hurting him, or 
just about anything else that can happen in a fight. 
SURPRISE 
A player who does not respond within three seconds of the declaration 
of a combat challenge is considered to have been surprised. The declaration 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


must occur in a way that the target has a fair chance to notice. It’s not 
whispered or mumbled while looking in another direction, or hurriedly 
interjected while the player is clearly in the midst of something else. The 
Storyteller has the final say in cases where players disagree about whether this 
condition has been met. The Storyteller may also award surprise outright to 
a sufficiently clever and suitable ambush - 
sometimes the target just doesn’t 
really have a chance to detect it. 
If the attacker achieves surprise, his target doesn’t get a counterattack, 
and the challenge merely determines whether the attacker inflicts his chosen 
harm or not. If the challenger loses this test, he may bid another Trait and call 
for a second challenge. After this second challenge, normal exchanges 
resume. 
MOVEMENT IN COMBAT (THREE-STEP RULE) 
Anyone who has just entered combat or who is already involved in 
combat is limited to three steps in any turn in which he wishes to attack. A 
character taking a single step walks cautiously. Taking two steps means the 
character is moving directly, and taking three steps means the character is 
running. In any case, the character suffers a -1 Trait penalty on physical 
challenges that turn. An effect allowing the character to take an additional 
action allows him another three steps. 
FAIR ESCAPE 
This rule provides a simple way for characters to escape from potentially 
dangerous situations. A player may call “Fair Escape!” upon noticing the 
approach of another player with whom he does not wish to interact, and may 
then leave the area without being pursued. There are several limits on this: 
Fair Escape does not let you evade someone within conversational 
distance. Ifshe’s that close, you must initiate achallenge to flee. Conversational 
distance may be farther than you can actually hear someone’s voice at regular 
volume at the moment, if the environment is particularly noisy. 
Fair Escape does not let you evade ranged weapons, or ambushes in 
which all the exits are blocked, or situations in which you’re surrounded. 
Common sense applies here: There must be some place to escape to as well 
as notice of the impending attack. 
A character with invisibility or other concealing effects may call Fair 
Escape at any time before a challenge has been initiated, unless someone with 
magical perception spots him. 
A character with supernatural speed may gain Fair Escape by activating 
the speed effect before a challenge is initiated. If pursuer and pursued both 
have supernatural speed, whoever has the highest level wins, and all ties go 
to the fleeing party. 
In general, the longer and more convoluted an explanation of why Fair 
Escape should apply, the more likely it shouldn’t. This rule is intended to 
simplify play, and the Storyteller is the final arbiter as to its applicability in 
any particular instance. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


WEAPONS 
No real weapons are allowed in Mind’s Eye Theatre games, and this 
prohibition extends to nonfunctional props that can be mistaken for weapons. 
This system does not require weapon props of any kind, nor are players 
allowed to actually strike each other to simulate combat. Use index cards to 
keep track of the Traits and details of particular weapons and act out the 
combat as much as necessary for everyone to understand what’s going on 
within the limits of the basic MET principles. 
A weapon gives its wielder extra Traits to use in combat and other 
relevant challenges, and may also confer Negative Traits or other limitations. 
The wielder cannot bid the weapon’s Traits when making a challenge. They 
add to his Trait total when comparing Traits with his opponent in the case 
of ties and overbids. In addition, some weapons add other bonuses, such as 
inflicting extra levels of damage or affecting more than one target at a time. 
The weapon regard records all this information, and a player is considered to 
be carrying a weapon when he has its card in hand. 
Every weapon has the following properties: 
Concealability: The extent to which the weapon can be hidden. If a 
character lacks the necessary clothing or cover to hide a particular weapon, 
he must have the card for it on display at all times. 
Availability: The amount of effort required to find a weapon and 
acquire it for use. A character who lacks the necessary influence cannot get 
a hard-to-find weapon, without the intervention of someone who does have 
the appropriate connections. Note that characters don’t automatically get to 
keep and use weapons forever without fear of consequences. The police do 
check on exotic weapons, and do investigate killing sprees by unusual means. 
Characters who abuse powerful weaponry should expect trouble to follow. 
Some weapons also have one or more of the following special abilities: 
Armor-Piercing: Armor-piercing weapons do not inflict extra damage, 
but do ignore any armor that doesn’t specifically list the ability to block them. 
Legal inquiries almost always follow the use of armor-piercing ammunition, 
even by authorized individuals. 
Destroy Shield: Shields are rare in the modem day, at least in the 
living world, but they’re not unheard of. A weapon capable of destroying a 
shield penetrates it automatically and renders it useless after a specified 
number of blows, listed with each weapon. 
Fully Automatic: A weapon capable of many rounds in very short 
order. An attack with a weapon in full-auto mode does an extra level of 
damage from sheer volume of fire. The shooter must then spend one action 
reloading the weapon before firing it again, since full-auto fire empties the 
entire clip of ammunition. 
High-Caliber: Weapons with larger than usual barrels can fire larger 
than usual bullets. When high-caliber fire strikes the target, the attacker 
makes a Simple Test. If it succeeds, the target suffers an additional level of 
damage. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Incendiary: Burning weapons inflict aggravat 
except those who have some specific means of resisting fire. Flame-throwers 
and Molotov cocktails spray burning liquid or gas, while incendiary 
ammunition bursts into flames when shot, or upon striking the target. 
Mass Trauma: These weapons tear away large portions of the target’s 
flesh and inflict an extra level of damage by doing so. 
Speed: Fast weapons can preempt an opponent’s attack. Only characters 
with the Melee ability can use this weapon capability, and the character must 
be attacking with or actively using the weapon to get this benefit. Fast 
weapons gain a preemptive strike only against opponents in hand-to-hand or 
melee combat, and the enemy must have a weapon with the Negative Trait 
of Slow, Heavy, or Clumsy. In this case, the fast weapon confers a benefit 
much like surprise. First make a challenge to see whether the faster attacker 
succeeds in damaging the target, then (if the defender is still in a position to 
counterattack) make a separate challenge to determine the results of the 
counterattack. A fast attack that disarms, kills, or neutralizes the defender 
leaves him unable to act. 
Spray: The weapon can strike several targets at once, as listed for each 
specific weapon. Make one test against all the targets simultaneously. Each 
target who fails this test suffers the weapon’s damage. The shooter risks only 
the Traits required to test against each member of the group, and loses a Trait 
for each defender who wins her individual challenge to resist. 
Opponents in hand-to-hand and melee challenges each bid Physical 
Traits. Characters using firearms may choose to bid Mental Traits instead. 
This one is an exception to the general rule of like Traits bid against each 
other. 
WEAPON EXAMPLES 
This list is not exhaustive. Storytellers and players should use it as a basis 
for comparison when coming up with weapons not covered here. 
MELEE WEAPONS 
Knife/Dagger - 
This is the whole family of small, readily concealed 
weapons that inflict damage via sharpened edges and points. Characters with 
the Athletics ability can throw them as well as use them in hand-to-hand 
combat. Many tem-akh, particularly those withmartial backgrounds, remember 
using these for both ceremonial and practical purposes. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed 
Broken Bottle - One of many improvised weapons; use this as a 
guideline for grabbing random handheld artifacts and using them in a fight. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Vest (but it's likely to hurt) 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any 
Cane/Club/Axe - 
This category covers all handheld weapons with 
which the attacker bludgeons his opponent, whether or not the weapon has 
an edge to enhance the damage. Mummies recovering from damage left 
unhealed during the resurrection challenge often keep canes handy, since 
they provide support as well. 
Bonus Traits: 1 (Cane), 2 (Club), or 3 (Axe) 
Negative Traits: Clumsy; many canes are also Fragile 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Damage: one bashing (Cane/Club) or two lethal (Axe) 
Availability: Any; particularly omate canes may be expensive and 
distinctive 
Special Ability: Destroy Shield (Axe) -Axes render shields useless after 
three blows. 
Nunchaku - 
This category covers not only actual nunchaku, but also 
other weapons designed to deliver crushing damage with weighted implements 
linked by chains or cords. Some are also bladed. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed 
Staff/Spear - 
These weapons are long, with or without a sharp tip, and 
favored by some ancient armies and many lone wanderers of the ancient 
world. They're cheap and easy to make. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Clumsy; spears are also Heavy 
Concealability: none 
Damage: two bashing (Staff) or three lethal (Spear) 
Availability: Any martial arts store, though spears cost much more than 
staves and it's near impossible to justify carrying spears in policed areas. 
Fencing Blade - 
Fencing was not part of the Egyptian tradition, but 
some tem-akh watched it done while in the Underworld, and some modem 
men and women practice it, mostly as a form of exercise. Serious combat 
weapons are thicker and heavier than tournament weapons, and it takes a 
little practice to compensate. This category also includes the katana, invested 
by some warriors and more would-be warriors with far more power and 
significance than it actually ever possesses. Like Western fencing blades, the 
katana depends more on speed than strength for its effectiveness. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any. Tournament weapons require less explanation than 
combat-ready weapons. Handcrafted katana and other fast swords are usually 
the property of someone who doesn't want to give them up, and who will try 
to get them back. 
Special Ability: Speed 
Shortsword - 
This category covers all blades up to about 18 inches long 
that are designed primarily for thrusting (including the gladius, scuta, jiann, 
and similar weapons). They are not common in the modem age, but were 
ubiquitous in ancient times. Almost any tem-akh with any combat experience 
at all has some familiarity with shortswords. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any. Note that blade strength counts for less with shortswords 
than it does with broadswords, and even replicas can deliver one or a few 
useful blows if sharpened. 
Broadsword - 
The archetypal melee weapon, it is a medium-length 
sword intended to stab, hack, or both. Broadswords make good vehicles for 
poisons and toxins, and are popular among enchanters as well. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Concealability: Trenchcoat (with - 1 Trait penalty to concealment 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Broadswords must usually be special order, though cheap 
and unreliable ones can be found at military supply stores and Renaissance 
festivals. At the Storyteller's discretion, they suffer from the Negative Trait 
of Fragile, as well as the standard Heavy. 
ARCHAIC RANGED WEAPONS 
challenges) 
Longbow -These 
huge, powerful weapons pierce many kinds of armor. 
They also take significant expertise to use effectively. Use the Athletics 
Ability for retests when using bows, and characters who lack Athletics receive 
only one third of the usual bonus Traits, rounded down, thanks to their 
difficulty in shooting well. Modem compound-bows are smaller, with pulley 
systems to enhance the archer's pull. They do not have the Negative Trait of 
Clumsy, but they give only five bonus Traits. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: None 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Armor-Piercing - 
Longbows ignore chain armor and 
ballistic vests; Destroy Shield - 
one shot from a longbow renders a shield 
useless. 
Dart - 
The Egyptian Army used these thrown weapons. The category 
also includes shuriken and other sharp hurled objects. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Clumsy (darts are notoriously inaccurate beyond short 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: one lethal 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Spray - 
darts may be thrown in groups that can strike 
multiple targets, if the thrower has at least one level of Athletics. The spray can 
strike up to three targets within a pace of each other and within 20 feet of the 
thrower. 
range) 
FIREARMS 
Pistol - 
Includes small- and medium-caliber handguns, from zip-guns 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any, if registered; otherwise, Police 4, Street 3, or Underevorld 2 
Heavy Pistol - 
The family of large guns, like the Desert Eagle. These 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any, if registered; otherwise, Police 4, Street 4, or Underevorld 3 
Special Ability: High-Caliber 
Rifle - 
These long firearms are widely used by hunters and snipers. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any, if registered; otherwise, Police 4, Street 4, or Underworld 3 
Special Ability: High-Caliber (if the character specifically buys suitable 
and Derringers, to 9 millimeters and standard police-issue sidearms. 
guns use high-caliber ammunition and pack a serious wallop. 
ammunition) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Shotgun -This long firearm fires a spray of pel1 
than usual precision in aiming. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any, if registered; otherwise, Police 4, Street 4, or Underworld 3 
Special Ability: Spay - 
a shotgun blast may affect up to three targets 
within a pace of each other and more than 20 feet from the shooter, as long 
as the gun is loaded with pellets rather than slugs. Mass-Trauma - 
shotgun 
blasts inflict an extra level of damage to a single target within five feet. 
Submachine Gun -This 
category of weapons allows the shooter to fire 
either single bullets or rapid bursts, making them favorites in situations where 
precision isn’t as important as being able to count on hitting targets quickly. 
Laws in most jurisdictions require them to be sold in a configuration that 
allows only for single-shot fire, but anyone with Technology can make a static 
physical challenge against 5 Traits to convert them to fully automatic fire. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: two lethal 
Availability: Any, if registered and non-automatic; otherwise, Police 4, 
Street 4, or Underworld 3 
Special Ability: Spuy - 
a submachine gun may hit up to five targets 
standing within apace of each other and more than 10 feet from the shooter. 
Fully Automatic - 
a submachine gun inflicts an extra level of damage if the 
shooter empties the entire clip in a target no more than five feet away. 
ARMOR 
Armor adds health levels, which get used up before the character suffers 
any damage herself. Not all armor protects against all weapons, of course, as 
noted in descriptions above. In addition, the protection armor provides 
comes at a cost, imposing one or more Negative Traits on the wearer. 
When a piece of armor loses all of its health levels, it’s temporarily 
rendered useless. Fixing it requires the proper tools and a Static Physical 
Challenge against 6 Traits with the appropriate Crafts specialization. 
Chain armor - 
This covers most medium armor, including scale and 
brigandine. It’s rare in the modem age and made only by specialists. 
Health Levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Any; it must be custom-made, and usually costs anywhere 
from $500 up to several thousand. 
Plate armor - 
These omate suits of interlocking metal plates provide 
excellent protection at a high cost in mobility. They are very expensive and 
hard to come by. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Health Levels J 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Any; plate mail is almost always custom-made, and starts at 
around $3000. 
Ballistic vest - 
Popular usage calls this sort of vest “bulletproof,” but 
that’s wishful thinking. It spreads around the damage from most bullets, and 
is relatively easy to conceal under an outer shirt or jacket. It also requires 
much less justification than archaic armor does when authorities notice it. 
Health Levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Police 4 or Underworld 3 
Reinforced armor - 
This sort of full-body armor is the standard 
equipment for riot-specialist police and some military troops. It cannot be 
concealed and always attracts attention. 
Health Levels: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Police 5 or Underworld 4 
COMBAT COMPLICATIONS 
MELEE AND BRAWLING 
Hand-to-hand fighting occurs when the combatants can actually reach 
each other with their weapons. Characters must have the Melee Ability to 
take advantage of their weapons’ special features. Brawling occurs when the 
combatants reach each other directly. They may attempt maneuvers as 
complicated as they wish, but the outcome of any brawl challenge is one level 
of bashing damage, unless the character possesses a power or special ability 
that specifically increases hand-to-hand damage. 
Characters with fighting styles bought as Melee or Brawl specializations 
may make complex maneuvers. The player must describe how the character 
moves to justify retests; these specializations don’t allow for increased 
damage, however. 
RANGED COMBAT 
Ranged combat happens at a distance. The attacking player declares his 
character’s action in some suitable way, like an emphatic “Bang !”or “Twang!” 
to match the nature of the weapon, and then goes over to the target and 
engages in a challenge. The target must have a ranged weapon of her own to 
counterattack, until and unless she manages to close the distance. A target 
aware of the attack before it happens, and with a ranged weapon of her own, 
is not considered surprised. The first challenge is resolved normally. 
Participants in range combat can duck for cover. If they manage to 
conceal themselves mostly or entirely from their opponents while remaining 
able to fire themselves, each combat receives one bonus Trait thanks to this 
cover. Cover Traits cannot be bid in challenges, but apply when determining 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


totals for resolving ties and overbids. A Storyteller or Narrator can adjudicate 
disputes about what effective cover is available in a particular scene. Especially 
sturdy or otherwise resilient cover, like a pile of boulders with gaps through 
which a combatant can shoot, may count as two or even more Traits. A 
combatant completely under cover cannot be hit at all, but then he can’t 
attack, either. 
MULTIPLE WEAPON USE 
Attacking with a weapon in each hand is possible but hard. Every task 
the character performs with the off hand suffers a -2 Trait penalty; the player 
must bid three Traits to initiate the challenge and enjoys a reduced chance 
of success. Characters can choose Two-Weapon Combat and Florentine 
Fighting as fighting styles. They remove one-penalty Trait for challenges 
within that form. 
The Storyteller can veto some two-weapon styles. Two pistols and two 
shortswords make sense. Two spears and two submachine guns don’t. 
DAMAGE AND HEALING 
Characters in Laws of the Resurrection games have health levels to 
represent their capacity for taking damage. Nine levels mark a character’s 
progressive decline to the brink of death: Healthy, Healthy, Bruised, Bruised, 
Bruised, Wounded, Wounded, Incapacitated, Mortally Wounded. Acharacter 
who begins a fight with all levels intact, who loses two levels to damage, 
becomes Bruised. If he loses three more, she becomes Wounded, and so on. 
Damaged characters suffer penalties to all challenges, as follows: 
Healthy: A Healthy character is not impaired. She may suffer cosmetic 
impairments, like being scratched up, but it is purely a matter of roleplaying. 
i 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


-.-- 
Bruised: A Bruised character is noticeably slower. She suffers a one- 
Trait penalty on all challenges, and the player must therefore bid an extra 
Trait whenever a challenge arises. 
Wounded: A Wounded character is seriously injured. She suffers a 
one-Trait penalty on all challenges, as does a Bruised character, and her 
opponent wins on all ties regardless of who has more Traits. If the injured 
character has a power that enables her to win all ties, she resolves ties through 
comparing Traits instead. Note: A character may always attempt to overbid. 
Incapacitated: An Incapacitated character falls unconscious and is 
completely out ofplay for at least 10 minutes. Once she regains consciousness, 
she is effectively immobilized and may only whisper short, pained sentences. 
She may not enter into challenges and is at the mercy of others until she 
regains at least one health level. If she takes one more level of bashing 
damage, she’s knocked out again for one hour, though she’s not in any further 
risk, except from prolonged bashing attacks. One more level of lethal or 
aggravated makes her fall to the next level. 
APPROACHING DEATH 
Mortal characters have one additional level beyond Incapacitated: 
Mortally Wounded: A Mortally Wounded character has little time 
left. She does not regain consciousness without outside assistance, and she 
loses a Physical Trait every 10 minutes. When she runs out of Physical Traits, 
she dies. Only the application of the Medicine Ability or healing magic can 
arrest this decline, and even so, the character cannot begin to heal until she 
is taken to a hospital or treated with powerful magic. 
Amenti have five levels beyond Incapacitated. Keep track of them, as 
they govem how hard the mummy has to work to restore his body to health 
after his next resurrection. The additional levels are: 
Broken/Scorched: The mummy’s extremities are mangled, he has lost 
significant quantities of soft tissue, and/or he has suffered serious bums. 
Crushed/Burned: The mummy has suffered multiple broken bones 
and/or significant damage to multiple internal organs. 
Dismembereflncinerated: The mummy has lost one or more limbs or 
had them severely pulped, or he has been ripped apart, and/or has suffered 
third-degree bums all over his body. 
PulverizedKremated: The mummy’s entire body has been crushed, 
mangled or burnt, or she has lost all of her skin and significant amounts of 
underlying tissue. 
Dust/Ash: Nothing solid remains of the character beyond dust, ash or 
a fine red mist. 
TYPES OF DAMAGE 
All injuries do not inflict equal harm. A kick in the jaw kills fewer people 
than a knife in the gut does, for instance. Laws of the Resurrection 
distinguishes between three kinds of damage: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bashing damage: Damage that is the result of any injury that hurts but 
fades quickly. Most damage inflicted by the unaided human body is bashing, 
as is most damage delivered by blunt instruments like clubs. It’s hard to kill 
someone with bashing damage. Once a character reaches Incapacitated via 
bashing damage, additional levels of bashing damage are converted to lethal 
and start working down the damage track a second time. That is, it takes nine 
additional levels of bashing damage to reduce an Incapacitated character to 
Mortally Wounded status. 
Lethal damage: Damage that is the result of attacks intended to kill and 
rakes a long time to heal. Knives and guns deliver lethal damage, as do strong 
poisons. Lethal damage takes a character down to Mortally Wounded much 
more quickly than bashing damage. 
The boundary between bashing and lethal damage is somewhat flexible. 
One person beating a mummy with his fists does bashing damage, but a whole 
gang stomping a helpless character may, at the Storyteller’s discretion, deliver 
lethal damage because of the total impact of their assault. 
Aggravated damage: Damage that leaves major, permanent injury. 
Fire does aggravated damage, as do magical weapons, and the teeth or claws 
of supernatural monsters. Sufficiently strong damage from other sources, such 
as receiving a whole clip of automatic-rifle bullets at short range, may also be 
considered aggravated (at the Storyteller’s discretion). 
POISON AND DISEASE 
Mummies can catch diseases and suffer from poisoning just like mortals, 
though mummies have the advantage of being able to return to life later. 
Most toxins and illnesses inflict bashing damage, though particularly 
deadly ones do lethal damage. Only supernatural sources like Alchemy- 
created potions can inflict aggravated damage on mummies. Each poison and 
disease has a toxin rating, which is the level of damage it inflicts, and a B or 
L to indicate whether the damage is bashing or lethal. Poisons do their toxin 
rating in damage every minute, while diseases do theirs in damage every day. 
Medical treatment and Supernatural means can neutralize the toxin and cure 
the damage done. 
Toxin Rating 
Poison 
1 
alcohol (B), cocaine (B) 
2 
food poisoning (B), 
methanol (L) 
3 
ptomaine (B) 
ammonia (L) 
bleach (L) 
strong acidsbases (L) 
cyanide (L) 
Disease 
cold (B) 
chicken pox (B), 
measles (L) 
influenza (B), 
pneumonia (L) 
tuberculosis (L) 
AIDS, cancer (L) 
Black Death (L) 
Ebola (L) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


FIRE 
Fire inflicts aggravateddamage onmummies, just as it does everyone else. 
Mummies aren’t any more susceptible to fire than normal living people, and 
they can use it as a weapon just as mortals can. Fire in the physical world 
damages a mummy’s spirit only if he’s manifested in the living world when it 
strikes him. 
TRUE DEATH 
Mummies cannot normally fall below the DustlAsh level no matter how 
much damage is inflicted. It takes unusual circumstances to wipe out all of a 
mummy from existence permanently, including: 
No will to live: A mummy reduced to zero permanent Willpower 
Traits fades to oblivion and her khat crumbles. 
Magic: Hekau like Forgetting the Person erases the mummy’s body and 
soul from existence. A mage can use a Master PrimelMaster Spirit rote to 
remove the mummy’s pattern from the Tapestry. It is always vulgar magic. 
(See Laws of the Ascension for details.) 
Complete atomic disintegration: A mummy at ground zero of anuclear 
blast, thrown into a star, or otherwise subjected to direct nuclear force is 
simply annihilated physically, leaving her soul trapped permanently in the 
Underworld. 
The Elixir of Oblivion: Rumor says that there’s a mystical poison or 
lost Alchemy effect that dissolves the bonds created by the Spell of Life. No 
one claiming to be able to make it has spoken up so far - 
it’s always the work 
of someone else’s uncle’s friend’s colleague. 
Self-destruction: Eternal life is not compulsory for mummies. A 
mummy who commits suicide, intending to die truly and permanently, may 
do so and is not reborn. Sacrificial acts of bodily death performed without the 
intent to end it all forever allow the mummy to be reborn as usual. 
Imprisoned khat: A clever foe can put a mummy’s khat where it will 
suffer continual damage, like the heart of an active volcano, and thereby 
prevent the mummy from ever fully recovering. The mummy’s soul remains 
free to roam the Underworld in search of a solution, and a mummy with 
sufficient Ku Background Traits may in time find fate intervening to free her 
khat. 
DERANGEMENTS 
Mummies are not often subject to insanity, but their friends, lovers and 
others around them are, and some Hekau may induce temporary insanity. The 
Storyteller may decide a derangement is in order after any experience that 
generates especially intense and unpleasant emotions, or which violates a 
character’s beliefs or ethics severely. All derangements carry “triggers,” 
circumstances that cause the effects of the derangement to become active. 
Once activated, derangements remain in effect for the rest of the scene, and 
players must modify their character’s Traits, attitudes and behavior in 
accordance with the derangement description. Characters may resist a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


derangement by expending a Willpower Trait - 
this 
scene; if the trigger is still present at the end of that time, the character must 
spend another Willpower Trait. In the case of particularly intense mental 
stress, Narrators may rule that additional Willpower Traits or a Static 
Willpower Challenge is required. 
It is up to the Storyteller to determine what amount of time and 
Willpower is required to cure a derangement, and such cures are best left to 
thoughtful and involved roleplaying rather than simple Trait expenditure. 
Note: There is nothing funny or arbitrary about the way a “crazy” person 
acts. The insane character is only reacting to the stimuli that he perceives to 
be real - 
to him, his behavior is perfectly normal. Players should never forget 
the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules of safety still apply when roleplaying 
derangements. 
Bulimia 
Bulimic characters salve their guilt and insecurity by overindulging in 
activities that comfort them (such as eating). Characters with this affliction 
will gorge themselves as much as possible under stress then purge their systems 
drastically. At the Narrator’s discretion, the character may overindulge in 
other pleasurable activities-sex, dancing, evenmagic -but such alterations 
should be uncommon, and they should be justified in the character’s history. 
Crimson Rage 
A character with this derangement experiences unprovoked fits of anger 
due to pent-up feelings of helplessness and inadequacy. Most such fits are 
triggered by failure to overcome some obstacle, or being confronted by a 
specific type of situation (such as pain, emotional distress or romantic failure). 
The player should work with the Narrator to determine what triggers his 
character’s derangement. Whenever this derangement is active, the character 
gains the Negative Traits Violent x 2 and Impatient, and the player should 
roleplay the fury as well as possible within the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules of 
safety. 
Fugue 
Characters suffering this affliction react to stress by adopting a specific 
set of behaviors. In the process, they suffer blackouts or periods of memory 
loss. When confronted by extreme stress, the character must win a Static 
Willpower Challenge. If he fails, the character blacks out and the player must 
roleplay the character’s trancelike state. Otherwise, control of the character 
passes to a Narrator for a scene, who dictates the actions the character takes 
in order to remove the stress. At the end of the fugue, the character comes to 
his rightful senses with no memory of his fugue actions. 
Hysteria 
Characters with this derangement are unable to control their emotions 
properly when subjected to stress or pressure. They become vulnerable to wild 
mood swings and fits of intense violence against the source of their discomfort. 
The character must make a Willpower Test against five Traits any time such 
stress is present. If she fails, she is two Traits down on all Social tests due to 
her wildly fluctuating moods, and she gains the Negative Trait Violent as well. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


In addition, this derangement activates automatically whenever the character 
fails in a particularly stressful or important challenge. (Narrators have final 
say on what classifies as such a dramatic failure.) 
Manic-Depression 
This derangement causes a character to suffer devastating mood swings. 
Whenever the character fails to achieve a personal goal, she must win a Static 
Willpower Challenge or fall into a depressive state for a number of scenes 
determined by the Narrator. While depressed, the character's Willpower 
Traits are considered halved (round down, minimum one) for purposes of 
Trait comparison, and she may not use any powers or Numinae to raise her 
Physical Traits or otherwise lighten her mood. After that, she enters a period 
of highly upbeat energy and excitement, in which she pursues her goals 
obsessively for a number of scenes equal to the time she spent in depression. 
During this manic time, she has the Negative Trait Impatient x 2. 
Megalomania 
These individuals have made power the focus of their existence, and they 
must always be the most potent individuals in their environment. Where the 
power stems from is irrelevant as long as they are dominant. They believe that 
other people are divided into two classes: lesser beings and beings elevated 
beyond their worth. Due to their supreme confidence, those with this 
derangement are considered one Trait up on all Willpower Tests while their 
derangement is active. However, they must also make a Willpower Test 
(difficulty six Traits) to resist any opportunity to put people in their place or 
reprimand any contentious upstarts who dare to presume beyond their station 
during that time. Although megalomaniacs play for keeps, the actions they 
take against others in this state need not be mindlessly violent. However, they 
are typically vicious in the extreme. Such actions are designed to humiliate 
the offender and exalt the character's standing in the eyes of others. 
Multiple Personalities 
A character with this derangement has suffered mental anguish so severe 
that his mind reacted by creating additional personas. Each personality is 
relevant to the trauma that caused it, and the player should work with the 
Storyteller to determine each personality's Nature and what triggers a 
particular one to rise to the surface. When apersonality is triggered, it assumes 
control until the conditions it was created to deal with have passed. Characters 
can manifest different Abilities and even Numinae for each personality; 
however, all suchTraits must still be purchased normally. What apersonality 
believes it can do is often very different from what it is actually capable of. 
Any such arrangements must be worked out with the Storyteller. 
Obsessive/Compulsive 
Characters suffering from this derangement are driven to control their 
environment. Obsessive characters keep one aspect of their life constant, be 
it personal cleanliness or simply keeping things quiet. Compulsive characters 
perform specific actions or sets of actions, such as washing their hands 
constantly or always saying lengthy prayers after touching another person. 
Obsessive/ compulsive characters are one Trait up to resist any supernatural 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


mental coercion like vampiric Dominate, changeling Chicaner 
Effects or any other attempts to coerce them to give up their set behaviors, but 
they attack anyone who tries to prevent them from adhering to their 
derangement. They need not try to kill the target, but they will inflict as much 
harm as is necessary to allow them to indulge in their derangement once 
again. If no clear individual is the source of their frustration, then the nearest 
person at hand will suffice. Failing that, the scenery or even the character 
himself is in for a world of hurt. 
Paranoia 
Paranoid beings believe that all their woes and suffering stem from a 
malicious external source. Many afflicted beings come up with intricate 
theories about just who is against them and why. Those they suspect of being 
against them are often subject to swift and brutal violence. Paranoidcharacters 
trust no one, not even family members or close friends, and they have a 
difficult time interacting with others. They are one Trait down on all Social 
Challenges while their derangement is active, and they suffer from the 
Negative Traits Violent and Condescending. 
Regression 
Characters suffering from this affliction avoid facing responsibilities or 
consequences by retreating to a younger state of mind in which they feel that 
less will be required of them. They may alternate between times of whimsy 
and temper tantrums, but they will always seek to put a more powerful 
individual between them and whatever is plaguing them. Victims of this 
derangement are two Traits down on all Mental Challenges. 
Schizophrenia 
Individuals with this derangement have had their psyche fractured by 
terrible, unresolved inner conflicts. Most people conceive of this disorder 
when they think about insanity. Victims might imagine anything from the 
relatively harmless delusion that they’re walking a goldfish on a leash to the 
more sinister conviction that they must cut out their children’s eyes to keep 
them from being tainted by the evil on television. Even still, this disorder is 
anything but arbitrary. The player should work with the Storyteller to 
determine ageneral set of behaviors relevant to the original trauma. Characters 
with this derangement are unpredictable and dangerous. In situations where 
their inner conflict flares up, they must retest any kind of challenge to retain 
self-control that they win. (If they win that retest, they do not have to retest 
again, though.) Furthermore, they are two Traits down on all Willpower- 
related tests. 
DUAT 
Every mummy spends some time in the Underworld -while 
regaining 
the energy necessary to attempt resurrection, and sometimes at her own 
choosing. Hekau like Separate Ba and the Potion of the Separable Ka allow a 
mummy to send her spirit into the Underworld without requiring her to enter 
the death cycle. (If her body or soul is slain while the two are separated, she 
enters the death cycle normally, but she does not automatically appear before 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the Judges of Ma’at.) In addition, she can petition the Judges voluntarily, 
falling into a deathlike trance that releases her spirit to enter the Underworld. 
This trance lasts at least one full day, sunrise to sunrise, longer depending on 
the challenge she encounters. 
While in Duat, the mummy has the same Traits she did in life. All of her 
Abilities and powers work as usual, except where specifically noted in 
descriptions. Her Willpower and Sekhem remain the same. The one major 
difference is that her soul enters Duat; it has full health, regardless of how 
badly damaged the khat is. 
While in Neter-khertet, or the Shadowlands, the mummy can look back 
into the Lands of the Living. The psychic barrier of the Shroud overlays 
everything like a gray haze. Healthy people are barely visible phantoms. 
Deathsight makes those closest to death easiest to see, including the terminally 
ill, vampires and the walking dead. 
Although Neter-khertet is right next to the living world, the Shroud 
keeps the realms from touching directly. Only a handful of mediums and 
mystics can look into Neter-khertet from the living world, and very few ghosts 
and other spirits can directly affect anything in the living world. However, 
things with weight in the material world also exert some influence on the 
Underworld. Permanent structures like buildings are as solid to spirits as they 
are to living people. Moving objects like cars and bullets deliver one level of 
bashing damage when they pass through the space occupied by aspirit, but are 
not themselves affected by the spirit. 
Thus the Underworld has two sources of solid reality and danger, the 
echoes from across the Shroud and the structures and objects that exist only 
in Neter-khertet. Spirits may voluntarily discorporate, suffering one level of 
bashing damage and gaining the ability to move through material walls and 
other barriers; this ability doesn’t let them move through the things actually 
present in the Underworld, only through objects that exist in the material 
world. For simplicity of play, assume that in the absence of specifically 
declared exceptions, the same walls and other boundaries apply to characters 
on both sides of the Shroud. 
MOVING THROUGH THE STORM 
Dja-akh, the all-consuming Maelstrom, makes travel in Duat a difficult 
and uncertain process. In the absence of immediate obstructions, a mummy 
may walk and run at her usual pace, plus whatever bonuses Hekau and other 
enhancements provide. The storm often complicates things. Huge rifts may 
open without notice. Showers of acid and ichor may break forth, hiding the 
dim sun between clouds that pulse with emerald or black flames. There are 
islands of safety deep within the endless expanse of Duat, including the 
Blessed Fields of A’aru, but it takes skill and experience to reach them safely. 
Nor are they altogether protected from the storm, though the worst of its fury 
may diminish in the face of sufficiently strong defenses. In addition to the 
storm, there are other dangers for the Underworld traveler. Spectres - 
ghosts 
consumed by their destructive side and dedicated to annihilation - 
and the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


malign servants of Apophis roam storm-ridden areas and temporarily clear 
areas alike. 
There is no perfect sanctuary in Duat anymore, just degrees of protection. 
Only fools venture far without planning and preparation. 
DEATH AMONG THE DEAD 
Mummies in Duat are not immune to harm. Interaction with the 
material world may inflict minor harm, as described above. In addition, other 
inhabitants of the Underworld may attack with spells, relic weapons and 
innate abilities. Use the same system for damage and recovery that applies to 
living characters, keeping track of which damage is purely spiritual in origin. 
A mummy reduced past Incapacitated disappears from the Underworld 
into the void of Oblivion ... but he isn’t gone permanently. She enters a 
regular death cycle, as described below. This time her spirit does not wander 
the Underworld. It drifts in a coma, unaware of passing time until it’s able to 
attempt the usual resurrection challenge. When (and if) this succeeds, the 
mummy’s spirit returns to the Blessed Fields of A’aru. It may remain there to 
continue healing, or let Anubis lead it back to attempt a second resurrection 
challenge to return to its body, subject to the usual penalties. 
RELICS 
Most of a mummy’s physical possessions stay in the material world. Those 
prepared with suitable Hekau make the transition with her across the Shroud. 
Much of Egyptian religion and magic focused on this process, and mummies 
have access to some of the world’s deepest lore and most sophisticated rituals. 
Other items, known as relics, also exist in the Underworld. A relic forms 
when an object is invested with a great deal of passion in the living world and 
then destroyed. A ghostly version of the item appears in h a t  at the site of the 
item’s destruction, solid and usable by any ghosts or other spirits who 
encounter it there. Relic weapons inflict serious damage on the Underworld’s 
inhabitants, relic vehicles move through the tangled spiritual geometry of 
Neter-khertet and deeper realms, and so on. 
Some relics were famous objects of love, hatred or another emotion (the 
castle of a hated or loved ruler, the first atomic bomb, an old sports stadium 
associated with a well-loved athletic team, etc.). Others were objects of more 
personal devotion, like a child’s favorite toy or a wedding ring. There’s very 
little of bland, generic interest in the Underworld, since it all had to matter 
a lot to someone to cross the Shroud, and the reasons for its survival may not 
be obvious at first. Storytellers of chronicles with significant play-time in 
Duat may find the quest to own and understand relics to be a good source of 
plot hooks. 
THE DEATH CYCLE 
Death is temporary for the Undying. When a mummy dies, her spirit goes 
to reside in the Underworld while she regains the energy necessary to restore 
her khat and return to life. The amount of time it takes to do this depends on 
the mummy’s Ba Background Traits. In the meantime, the mummy can act 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


briefly with Underworld experience. Other chronicles make play in Duat as 
important and frequent as play in the living world. Storytellers should make 
sure players understand the expectations governing a particular chronicle. 
Regardless of how much in-play detail the death cycle gets, mummies 
return to life almost inevitably. Their enemies must somehow interfere with 
their spirits in the Underworld, as sooner or later circumstances are likely to 
allow the body to heal and the spirit to reenter it. Mummies enjoy the support 
offriends and mortal followers, as measured by Allies and Retainers Background 
Traits, who are willing to help protect vulnerable khat - 
whenever possible, 
these allies hide a mummy’s body in her tomb to recover unmolested. 
Note that mummies may choose to spend more than the minimum time 
in the Underworld, depending on their preferences and the general shape of 
the chronicle. 
Once the required time passes, the mummy spirit attempts to reenter the 
body. There are two ways to make the effort: Spend one permanent Sekhem 
Trait and make a Static Challenge of Willpower + Ba against eight Traits, or 
spend one permanent Willpower Trait and make a Static Challenge of 
Sekhem + Ba. In either case, each success heals one level of damage, starting 
with damage beyond Incapacitated. It takes five successes for a mummy who 
was burned to ashes to reach Incapacitated, and she needs at least one more 
to be conscious. 
If the challenge fails, the mummy must wait at least one full day before 
making another attempt. Each challenge requires the permanent sacrifice of 
either a Willpower or aSekhemTrait. In addition, amummy who makes more 
than one resurrection challenge within a year loses one Attribute Trait for 
each challenge after the first. The Storyteller or Narrator adjudicating the 
challenge decides which Trait is lost; in general, losses begin with the 
mummy’s weakest category and with any Trait that the mummy possesses just 
one of. Strength in an overall category and in a particular Trait provides a 
spiritual defense against this erosion. (Exceptions do occur, however.) The 
player may buy the Trait back with experience as usual. 
A particularly powerful mummy could return to life after being reduced 
to ash and reach full health immediately. Most mummies still have some 
damage continuing to afflict their khat after the resurrection challenge. Any 
remaining damage is considered aggravated and heals as usual. All normal 
means of treating these wounds apply (including Hekau). 
BALANCE 
Balance measures the extent to which a mummy adheres to the principles 
of truth, balance, and justice as decreed by Osiris and taught by his priests. 
Balance isn’t synonymous with Humanity and other general measures of how 
well other supernatural creatures restrain their darker impulses. It is a specific 
set of doctrines about moral duty and enlightenment. For the Judges of Ma’at, 
the original harmony of the world - 
Ma’at - is something they feel 
intimately, for it is part of their very essence. For their servants among the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Reborn, understanding comes only gradually and with great effort. Almost 
nothing in the world as it now exists reflects its primal state, and for souls of 
this age, Ma’at is mostly something to imagine and to hope for. 
Anubis leads each newly made mummy before the First Judge of Ma’at, 
often known as Ankh or Life because it grants permission for Osiris to 
resurrect the deceased. Thereafter, each encounter with the Judges involves 
one or more of the Judges, usually ones who specialize in a particular sort of 
offense or other trouble. The list given below is just a sampling. Storytellers 
may create new Judges to suit the needs of their chronicles, drawing on 
Mummy: The Resurrection, Egyptian mythology and their own sense of 
what’s appropriate for the chronicle. 
OFFENSES AGAINST MA’AT 
Some actions violate the basic principle of justice. Mummies are expected 
(and commanded) to avoid these transgressions, and they will be punished if 
they persist. The Judges of Ma’at can lower mummies’ Balance ratings, which 
may cost a sinning mummy access to some Hekau, Abilities and Attribute 
Traits. 
The most blatant offenses are easiest to grasp. No mummy really needs 
detailed explanations of just how wrong mass-slaughter is, for instance. 
Subtler offenses require more sensitivity to Ma’at and its nuances, and low- 
Balance mummies are not expected to understand them all. The higher a 
mummy’s Balance rating, the more closely she is expected to hew to the full 
range of Ma’at’s implications, leaving her less and less room for petty sins and 
indulgences. 
Balance Offenses 
1 
Offenses against individuals, including murder, rape, torture, and 
other gross violations. Any deliberate act leading to death or permanent harm 
for a living person in harmony with Ma’at. 
2 
Any of the above offenses against any living creature in accord with 
Ma’at. Allowing any of the above offenses to take place without trying to stop 
them. 
3 
Causing harm to any person out of hatred, jealousy, fear, and the 
like. (Self-defense is acceptable.) Destroying particularly valuable or 
inspirational artifacts such as holy ruins and icons. Causing harm to yourself, 
including self-destructive behavior, harmful addictions, etc. 
Doing intentional harm to personal or public property without just- 
cause. Impassioned harm against any living creature for a reason other than 
self-defense, or the defense of an innocent other. Intentionally inflicting 
emotional harm on another person. 
Doing harm to another person through ignorance, negligence or 
thoughtlessness. 
Theft, deception or betrayal against any person. 
Doing physical, emotional, or spiritual harm to any person for any 
reason other than self-defense or the upholding of Ma’at. 
4 
5 
6 
7 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. 
,- 
harm to any living creature for any reason other than self- 
defense or the upholding of Ma’at. 
9 
Allowing any of the above offenses to take place in your presence 
without attempting to stop them. 
10 Doing anything less than your absolute best to uphold and embody 
Ma’at at all times. 
The escalating demands of Ma’at mean that Laws of the Resurrection 
chronicles must necessarily deal with moral issues. This is a tricky and 
contentious area. Abusive players like to claim that any restrictions on their 
self-indulgence is an offense against good gaming, and players and Storytellers 
of mutual goodwill may nonetheless misunderstand or simply disagree with 
each other. Storytellers should make sure that players understand that the 
standards presented here are those laid down by forces within the World of 
Darkness, and reinforce that message through the actions of Storyteller 
characters. It is unlikely that any person playing in the game holds the creed 
of Ma’at in real life, and this code is something that applies to characters, not 
players. 
Storytellers must be fair and consistent in judging offenses against Ma’at. 
The Storyteller or Narrator handling a scene should evaluate the situation 
and give a player warning when a character is about to do something contrary 
to Ma’at, since mummies do get some inner warning of impending wrongness. 
The player may decide to go ahead anyway and have the character incur a 
violation, but this is always a knowing choice. Identifying violations is 
somewhat subjective at the higher levels, and it takes good will all-around for 
the game to go smoothly when high-Balance characters are involved. 
Mummies with high Balance ratings need not be inert, vaguely benevolent 
nobodies. Indeed, Ma’at calls them to action. The agents of Apophis and 
nonliving creatures, such as the walking dead and vampires, do not impose 
moral claims on mummies: Whatever a mummy chooses to do to them, as 
long as it doesn’t violate any of her other obligations under Ma’at, is all right 
with Osiris and the Judges. The limits that do exist should serve as challenges 
to creative roleplaying, rather than as barriers to doing anything interesting. 
BEING JUDGED 
A mummy appears before the Judges each time she enters the death 
cycle, and she may also choose to enter a trance and appear before the Judges 
voluntarily. In either case, Anubis guides the mummy to the Blessed Fields 
of A’aru where the Judges who choose to evaluate the mummy stand 
waiting. The number of Judges present is equal to the mummy’s current 
Balance rating: one at Balance 1, two at Balance 2, and so on. A mummy 
may encounter the same Judges repeatedly, or appear before different ones 
each time. The Judges act according to agendas that no mortal or once- 
mortal being can readily understand, and Storytellers may decide on the 
Judges’ identities as they see fit. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


(The goddess Ma’at herself presides over the judging of mummies seeking 
Balance 9 or 10. Horus allegedly struggles with the highest teachings, while 
Anubis faces only the goddess.) 
The mummy must not have any unresolved offenses against Ma’at higher 
than her desired (not her current) Balance rating. If she does, progress simply 
won’t happen. The Judges quiz the mummy to determine her understanding 
of Ma’at, and force her to justify questionable actions. No mummy can lie to 
them; they sense truth more deeply than the character can, and indeed the 
process of examination often leads the mummy to new insights. 
A mummy who demonstrates her commitment to the next higher level 
of Balance receives the Judges’ blessing to advance. The player may spend the 
appropriate experience Traits now, if the character has accumulated enough, 
or whenever the necessary Traits are in hand. 
A mummy who has some minor offenses, or one or two serious offenses 
for which there’s some justification but not enough to fully appease the 
judges, remains as she is until her next time of judging. The Judges lecture her 
on her responsibilities and let her pass. 
A mummy with more than a few offenses clearly hasn’t understood Ma’at 
well enough, and faces the judges’ wrath. They strip her of one Balance Trait 
- 
more in grave cases - 
with consequences for the rest of the characters’ 
Abilities. Attribute category and ability totals above five fall to the character’s 
new Balance rating, with the Storyteller deciding which Traits must be 
removed. Any Hekau ratings above the character’s new Balance fall, even if 
the new Balance rating is less than five. 
As noted above, mummies may try to avoid judgment by entering the 
Underworld and arranging to die while body and soul are separate. Sooner or 
later, a mummy doing this ends up before the judges, who are not amused. The 
violator suffers a reduction of Balance to 2, with all the reductions in power 
that go with this. 
FALLING TO APOPHIS 
Two possibilities confront the mummy at Balance 1 who continues to sin 
against Ma’at. If the Judges catch her soul, they may decide she’s unworthy 
of eternal life, consign the soul to the void, and that’s the end of her, without 
recourse. Alternatively, she may voluntarily renounce Osiris and agree to 
serve Apophis. Storytellers may decide whether a character who makes this 
decision may remain in play; in most chronicles, servants of Apophis may 
only be non-player characters. 
A mummy who’s willing to serve Apophis encounters the Corruptor on 
her next passage into the Underworld. If she affirms her decision, the serpent 
strips her of all her Balance rating and all the benefits that go with it, and 
transmutes her soul to draw on Apophis for power instead. Instead of a 
Balance rating, she now has Corruption. 
The Great Serpent isn’t as generous with its gifts as Osiris. The mummy 
thereafter ages at twice the normal rate, though she doesn’t lose Attributes 
because of it. She is susceptible to disease, addiction and the like as before, and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


while they cannot kill her, neither can they be cured. She retains her special 
senses, greater resistance to injury, the ability toreturn from the dead, and her 
Hekau, though without Balance she cannot improve her path ratings. 
This existence is not pleasant. Her sufferings mount without prospect of 
relief until she despairs and gives up altogether. Mummies who remain loyal 
to Ma’at regard destroying their fallen comrades as a mercy-killing, and in 
time the fallen come to agree. Many end up seeking out their former allies for 
the relief of death. 
CORRUPTION 
Just as the Amenti walk the path of Ma’at, the Apepnu, or Bane 
mummies, walk a path ofApophis. This dark faith is measured by a character’s 
Corruption rating. The greater a character’s ties to Apophis, the greater her 
Corruption, and thus the more monstrous he is. Where the Amenti and 
Apepnu share abilities, Corruption may be sustituted in place of Balance. 
Not every creature of Apophis has a Corruption rating; some may serve 
in ignorance. This does not make them any less a threat to followers of Ma’at. 
SEMEKTET 
A mummy who falls to zero Sekhem Traits while outside the Web of 
Faith enters a condition known as semektet, literally, “the weakening.” The 
mummy cannot regain Sekhem on her own: Even the Trait that comes with 
each sunrise instantly dissipates before the mummy can do anything with it. 
The longer she stays away from the Web of Faith, the weaker she becomes. 
She can regain Sekhem only from an outside source such as a Vessel or a 
sympathetic Udja-sen, or by returning to the Web of Faith. Back inside it, the 
daily infusion stays with her, and she can begin to recuperate. 
A mummy in semektet cannot use any Hekau or artifacts that require 
Sekhem. If she fails to gain at least one Sekhem within 70 days, she starts to 
decay physically, mentally, and spiritual. Each day after the 70th, she loses 
one Attribute Trait, selected by the Storyteller. Mental attributes usually go 
first, as it becomes more difficult for the mummy to think clearly. Social 
attributes usually follow, then physical. She ends up with a minimum of one 
Trait in each attribute category. 
Starting the day she falls into semektet, the mummy must win a Static 
Willpower Challenge against six Traits to avoid anovenvhelming compulsion 
to return to the Web of Faith. If she fails, the tem-akh assumes enoughcontrol 
to guide the mummy “home” long enough for recovery to begin, with an 
intensity and single-mindedness equal to the original hajj. 
The mummy can take some measures to slow the damage done by 
semektet, though it can’t be stopped altogether. She needs six hours’ ritual 
work and Intermediate Alchemy, Amulets or Necromancy to make specially 
prepared bandages and to have someone else wrap her in them, leaving only 
her eyes and mouth exposed. Within this confinement (which can be 
arranged to allow her to walk, though she cannot use her fingers or engage in 
any fine manipulation), she loses an Attribute Trait every three days instead 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of every single day, and the difficulty of the Willpower Challenge to avoid a 
second hajj is only three Traits. 
Once within the Web of Faith or once given Sekhem from an outside 
source, the mummy regains Sekhem normally. Her lost Attributes return at 
the rate of one Trait per day, in the reverse order of their loss. 
MUMMIES AND VAMPIRES 
From the mummies’ point of view, vampires are among the foremost 
servants of Apophis, doing a great deal to destroy the world’s balance and 
keeping it in perpetual discord. Vampires see it differently. None of them 
have even heard of Apophis except as a concept in Egyptian mythology. 
(Storytellers and players take note: Laws of the Resurrection does not claim 
to present “the truth about vampires, and should not be used as the definitive 
word in cosmological arguments in or out of character among vampires.) 
Mummies who bother learning this much about the vampiric perspective feel 
that it doesn’t matter much - 
vampires do the will of Apophis very well 
indeed, whether or not they realize it. And whatever the source of their curse, 
it’s an offense against Balance. Conflict ensues. A mummy cannot pal around 
with any vampire without risking an offense against Balance, since the very 
act of feeding, which is necessary for vampiric survival, is a violation of 
innocents. There simply isn’t room within the law of Ma’at for the Reborn 
and the undead to go out carousing or having adventures together. 
Mummies can be ghouled just like mortals (see Laws of the Night, 
Revised Edition, p. 256 for details), which gives the ghouled mummy all the 
unusual benefits in increased Traits, access to some disciplines, and so on. But 
of course the mummy already has access to immortality and powers by her very 
nature, so the benefits of ghouling aren’t nearly as strong for mummies. 
Mummies can also be blood bound, but the mummy who finds herself 
called to act contrary to Ma’at may draw on Strength of Conviction (see the 
benefits of Balance). If successful, the mummy breaks the blood bond, and is 
immune to any further bonds from that particular vampire. The vampire is 
seldom happy about the situation; the breaking bond resonates in his soul as 
a massive counter-force against the Beast within him. 
Mummy blood has unusual effects on vampires. Each Blood Trait that a 
vampire drains counts as two, reflecting the power within mummies, and it 
costs the mummy a Sekhem Trait per blood Trait lost as her vital force gets 
siphoned away. Each Blood Trait taken also gives the vampire one temporary 
Humanity Trait, as some of the call of Ma’at travels with the blood. It even 
works on vampires who follow paths other than Humanity, dragging their 
path ratings down toward zero, and then building up Humanity until the 
Blood Traits taken from the mummy are all spent. 
While in this altered condition, the vampire suffers the consequences of 
committing sins appropriate to his new temporary Humanity rating. His 
moral sense is greatly strengthened, which may come as a serious shock 
depending on how he normally conducts himself. Any Humanity he loses 
from sins committed at this time remains gone even after the mummy blood 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


goes - 
the experience of seeing the world in more moral terms remains. A 
vampire that normally follows a Path of Morality must make a Static Instinct 
Challenge against his new Humanity rating to take actions in accord with his 
Hierarchy of sin. If it fails, he just can’t bring himself to do it. And that failure 
may in turnconstitute asin against his Path and require adegenerationcheck. 
Yes, this can get very complicated and messy. In this era when mummies 
are still brand new to the World of Darkness, vampires who encounter them 
tend to get very confused, and wild rumors circulate within Kindred 
communities. Storytellers should require players whose characters show a full 
understanding of the rules to explain just how that understanding came 
about. Vampires who’ve tasted mummy blood usually develop a lovebate 
relationship with the power and moral vision that the blood carries. Some 
vampires become addicted to the experience and locked into aself-destructive 
cycle of sinning and counter-sinning. That tragic end only reinforces most 
mummies’ conviction of vampires’ fundamental wrongness. 
A mummy drained of all her blood dies just like any mortal, and enters 
the death cycle. In some cases, the vampire that did the deed is still suffering 
pangs of remorse created by the mummy’s blood when the mummy returns for 
vengeance. A mummy cannot be Embraced. As long as the mummy has 
Balance 1 or greater, her soul flees from vampiric corruption and enters the 
death cycle, leaving the vampire just with the corpse. 
For kuei-jin, all mummy blood is Yang-aspected, and doubly potent just 
as it is for Western vampires. A mummy drained of all Chi dies as described 
above. Note that kuei-jin have more experience in the Underworld, and may 
encounter mummies on the other side of the Shroud. Kuei-jin are not rushing 
to any fuller understanding of mummies more quickly than their Cainite 
counterparts, and Storytellers should feel free to condemn the abuse of out- 
of-character knowledge among kuei-jin, just as among vampires. 
LIFE AS THE UNDYING 
Mummies are truly alive, thanks to the Great Rite. They enjoy many of 
the benefits and limitations of mortal life: They must eat, sleep and breathe, 
and their khat suffers when they fail to do so. They do not suffer from a curse 
that makes them merely seem alive, like vampires, nor do they depend on a 
supernatural rite that grants animation only to a corpse, like the walking dead 
or Risen. Mummies tend to have greater stamina than people who haven’t yet 
died, and they have access to the potent magic in Hekau. They can also enjoy 
life’s many pleasures, and have a sharpened sense of the importance of 
enjoying life. 
AGING 
Mummies remain at the age they were at the end of the Second Life. The 
Spell of Life keeps them from aging. The only exceptions to this rule occur 
in the rare cases when tem-akh choose children to fuse with. These children 
grow to physical maturity - 
around 16-20 years old - 
and then join other 
mummies in agelessness. Mummies who return to life after having aged 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


enough to suffer physical decline continue to look the same, but find their 
physical capacities restored to full vigor (if not more than they ever actually 
had). Appearances can be deceiving. 
SEX 
Yes, mummies can and do have sex; they can sire offspring and become 
pregnant. Children born of unions between two mummies or a mummy and 
a mortal partner are normal mortals. They are more likely than usual to have 
the merits Acute Senses, lron Will, Medium and Bes’ Blessing, and they are more 
likely to develop sorcerous magic. Otherwise they’re like anyone else. Most 
mummies avoid family entanglements for two reasons: Spouses and children 
are easy targets for mummies’ enemies, and remaining eternally vigorous 
while one’s loved ones age and die is very traumatic. 
PERCEPTION 
All mummies possess two distinctive senses: 
Insight: Living mummies may make a Mental Challenge to sense 
strong emotions in others, either by examining a particular person, or (by 
making a Mental Challenge) by searching for a particular emotion in acrowd. 
This latter application shows the mummy whoever feels that particular 
emotion strongest. lnsight registers only strongly held emotions, though 
sometimes knowing that there are no strongly held emotions in the target 
comes in handy. 
Deathsight: Mummies in spirit form lose the ability to use Insight, and 
gain the ability to make a Mental Challenge to see the signs of illness, frailty 
or impending death in living subjects. In addition, amummy may concentrate 
for three turns before making the challenge to search for hidden flaws and 
minute weaknesses. Success at this search gives the mummy one bonus Trait 
to use in one challenge against that target within the next hour. 
DRUGS AND ADDICTION 
Mummies can enjoy and suffer from drugs just like mortals. The Judges 
of Ma’at regard over-indulgence as an offense against Balance and punish it 
accordingly, but temperate use falls within the realm of proper exercise of 
one’s physical potential. Balance helps the mummy resist the temptations of 
addiction: Add the mummy’s Balance Traits to his Willpower for the 
challenges described below. Abusing drugs generally reduces the mummy’s 
Balance, making future efforts at resisting this (and other vices) that much 
harder. 
Overuse of any drug can prove addicting, whether physically or 
psychologically. When the Storyteller feels that a character is at risk of 
addiction, the player must spend one of the character’s temporary Willpower 
Traits and make a Willpower Challenge against six Traits to resist getting 
hooked. The difficulty of this challenge rises by one each time the character 
abuses that substance thereafter. 
Once addicted, the character has difficulty resisting an opportunity to 
use the drug. Spend one temporary Willpower Trait to fight off the urge for 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


one hour. For each day the character goes without satisfying the addiction, he 
suffers a one-Trait penalty to all challenges involving effort and concentration 
(but not involuntary and subconscious activities). An addicted character 
with zero temporary Willpower Traits always indulge when offered the 
opportunity. 
To overcome the addiction, the character must go for one full month 
without using the drug at all, and then win a series of three Static Willpower 
Challenges against 10 Traits or spend one permanent Willpower Trait. 
Failure leaves the character addicted. In addition, if the challenges fail, make 
two Simple Tests. If both of those fail, the character immediately goes on a 
binge, seeking out the drug at almost any cost. If the character kicks the habit 
and falls back into use again at some later date, the challenges to resist 
addiction begin at seven Traits rather than six. 
THE VEIL 
Mortal minds aren’t equipped to deal with the realities of the supernatural 
world. People fall back on instinctive psychological defenses to avoid 
confronting ghosts, spirits, vampires, shapeshifters and other creatures whose 
existence challenges mortal worldviews. Many names apply to this defense, 
but “the Veil” is a common one among mummies. 
Mummies do not automatically trigger the Veil. They’re like mortals in 
many ways. Mummies on the hajj and deep in the throes of semektet radiate 
unnatural inner power and therefore unleash the Veil, as do mummies using 
Hekau which evoke the Veil. Only a handful of mortals - 
the very young, 
the truly innocent and the totally insane - 
are unaffected by the Veil. Their 
claims about what they see do not meet with widespread acceptance. Other 
Supernatural inhabitants of the World of Darkness are also immune to the 
Veil, since the power lies within them as well. 
Mortals react based on their current Willpower: 
Willpower Reaction 
1 
2 
3 
Catatonia. The person cowers in terror for at least an hour, 
seeking to deny everything related to the manifestation. 
Panic. The person runs in blind fear. 
Disbelief. The person engages in as much rationalization as 
is necessary to explain the situation as something - 
anything -but 
evidence of the supernatural. 
Berserk. The person blindly lashes out at the manifestation 
and anything associated with it, trying to destroy it or at 
least make it go away. 
Terror. The person is deeply afraid but retains some self- 
control; she seeks to withdraw as quickly as possible without 
actually succumbing to panic. 
Conciliation. The person is afraid and will escape if an 
opportunity presents itself, but retains enough self-control 
to try to bargain or plead for freedom if necessary. 
4 
5 
6 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.  
7 
Controlled Fear. The person IS afraid, but has enough d f -  
control to act rationally and even communicate with the 
manifestation. 
Curiosity. The person is more intrigued than fearful, and 
will try to communicate with and/or document the 
manifestation. 
Anger. The mortal refuses to be afraid and stubbornly 
stands his ground, reacting with outrage against this viola 
tion of the natural order. 
Blase. The mortal is strong-willed and self-confident enough 
to remain unperturbed by the manifestation. She’s surprised 
by it, if she’s never encountered such a thing before, but can 
deal with it as calmly as she would with amundane novelty. 
8 
9 
10 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


If a roleplaying troupe places an advertisement in the local newspaper for 
a Storyteller, it might look something like this: 
“Theater company IS0 bright, creative, organized, reliable, trustworthy 
person to perform ongoing scriptwriting, directing, producing, bookkeeping, 
prop, technical and stage-managing duties. Must be willing to work long hours 
in a high-stress, demanding environment. People skills a must. Volunteer 
position only.” 
Make no mistake: Storytelling a Mind’s Eye Theatre game is a superhuman 
juggling act that can leave you feeling frustrated, unappreciated and burned out. 
It requires a detailed and active imagination, tight organization, a good memory, 
the ability to think on your feet, intelligent delegation and a whole lot of patience 
anddiplomacy. It is not something that everyone does well, or (more importantly) 
enjoys. And yet, for all these pitfalls, Storytellers still volunteer their time and 
energy and creativity on a regular basis to provide a few hours of entertainment 
for a group of people they may not even know very well. Why? 
Every Storyteller will have different answers to that question - 
a sense of 
accomplishment, a taste for drama, hard-core masochism - 
but at the heart of 
every successful game is a Storyteller who fundamentally enjoys what he’s 
doing, someone who runs the game because he finds it fun to do so. There really 
is no other good reason to undertake this amount of stress! 
This chapter details everything you need to know about running a Mind’s 
Eye Theatre chronicle. It also covers stumbling blocks you’re likely to encounter 
specifically in theResurrectioncontext. Even if you’ve already beena Storyteller 
in a Mind’s Eye Theatre game, the Amenti present a unique set of Storytelling 
problems you probably haven’t encountered before; so no skipping past this 
chapter! Who knows - 
you might learn something new. The art and craft of 
Storytelling is an ever-changing process, and every little tip helps. 
STORYTELLING 101: THEORY AND ART 
TABLETOP VS. LIVE-ACTION 
In a tabletop game, the Storyteller has near-absolute control over plot 
development and character interaction. She is aware of everything going on in 
her fishbowl and can “tweak” the plots to smoothly and seamlessly follow the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


characters, playing upon minute background and personality details. She 
knows exactly how the streets are laid out, how the receptionist deals with 
unwanted visitors, where the best coffee can be found. Tabletop games can 
reach incredible levels of cinematic virtuosity, with Storyteller and players 
working in tandem to build engrossing and memorable stories. Even shy or 
inexperienced players can usually “tag along” with tabletop stories, and find 
their own niches to impact the plot. 
Live-action games, on the other hand, don’t work the same way, no matter 
how intelligent and creative the Storyteller and players may be. There are too 
many variables, too many “real people” mucking about in an open story 
environment with unpredictable outcomes, for stories to consistently encompass 
all players. In a live-action game, the Storyteller cannot be everywhere at once 
to herd the stories along the way she wishes, and less outgoing or creative 
players may find themselves struggling to stay involved with plots. 
That’s not to say that live-action games don’t have their own singular 
appeal; players who want more freedom to act as an individual and not as just 
“one of the troupe,” players who revel in chaos and by the seat-of-your-pants 
split-second timing, drama queens looking for a stage toperform on- the high 
pressure and intense first-person apotheosis of the live-action setting are real 
rushes to a lot of players. As a Storyteller, though, you’re going to have to 
change your expectations of how a game “should” run when you’re making the 
switch from tabletop to live-action, even though the core elements behind the 
game (having fun and telling a good story) are the same. 
So, in practical terms, how is live-action different from tabletop? 
THE PROBLEM OF SINGULARITY 
Working in the confines of a tabletop environment, you (as the omniscient 
Storyteller) can see everything that’s going on in your world. You are aware of 
the characters’ movements and their dice rolls. Abilities and limitations are 
right there for all (particularly you) to see. As a result, it is near impossible for 
a player to cheat without you or another player being aware of it. As well, since 
all action is occurring right before your eyes, you need not demand in-character 
justification for the acquisition of Abilities and information. You are already 
aware of whether the character can legitimately learn or know something, 
because you control the scenarios. 
So what happens when someone informs you that another player is grossly 
cheating, but you weren’t there to see it happen? Or when a player wants to 
learn some rare and powerful Ability that she claims she learned from another 
character months ago, but with whom you cannot check to verify her story? 
You, as a live-action Storyteller, are going to have to make some very unpopular 
and difficult decisions, because you can’t know every exchange going on in your 
game. There is no one brush you can paint every situation with; you will have 
to weigh every situation individually, using what you know of the people 
involved, and keeping the morale of your game in mind. 
It is inevitable that you’re going to have to make factual and character 
judgments in situations like these. All you can do is be fair, and balance between 
fairness to the player base as a whole (that is, not let a few players walk all over 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


you or abuse the rules), and be so quick to judge that you end up alienating people 
who might not know any better. You aren’t going to make everyone happy all of 
the time; don’t even try to. All anyone can ask is that you try to be fair. 
CHEATING 
In live-action games, cheating happens. Sometimes it’s unintentional 
(“Oops, I really didn’t know that power didn’t work that way.. . sorry!”). Other 
times, it’s intentional (“Um, no, I have 12 Brawl Abilities.. . really.. . the other 
eight just haven’tbeen, um, added tomy sheet yet.”). Cheatingis anunavoidable 
byproduct of the lack of an authority figure in play at all times; it would be nice 
to say that most players are honest, but it’s probably more accurate to say that 
most players have honest intentiom but sometimes get caught up in the game 
and forget rule mechanics. The best way to approach these situations, as 
Storyteller, is to hope for and encourage the best in your players. But also be 
prepared to deal with the worst as impartially as you can. Your greatest allies in 
keeping players honest are a good Storyteller-player relationship, sharp Narrators, 
and the players themselves to aim for high standards of roleplaying integrity. 
Sometimes, in the case of new players who might not know any better, it 
is helpful to make a “reminder” announcement to the players before or after the 
game, without naming specific players. That kind of subtle correction is all a 
Storyteller needs to do to give players a gentle reminder about the way certain 
powers or rules work, and it heads off any further misinterpretations. Never 
humiliate a player in front of the other players, no matter how grave her offense 
may be; if you feel she may be deliberately cheating, take her aside and speak 
to her privately. As well, give players the benefit of the doubt until proven 
guilty; slinging accusations without asking the player if she understands the 
rules results in hurt feelings and angry players, and in you gaining the reputation 
of being a petty tyrant. 
Anyone caught by a Narrator or yourself who is blatantly and consistently 
cheating should be removed from that session’s play and be given a stern, 
courteous warning. If he persists in cheating, you may consider removing him 
from the game altogether, but that is a personal decision. Many Storytellers 
tolerate known “problem players” to avoid a bad reputation, but this toleration 
may send other players the message that it’s okay to cheat, and the whole game 
will begin to slide. Be firm, be fair. 
QWTIONABLE KNOWLEDGE 
If a player comes to you and wishes to learn something strange or powerful 
but there’s a question as to whether or not he is justified in learning it, don’t 
be afraid to say, “Not right now - 
let me consider it, and I’ll get back to you.” 
Do not let yourself be badgered/whined/flattered into agreeing to something 
that later unbalances your game or makes other players perceive you as favoring 
that player! If you have decided that the Ability/power in question is indeed 
a possibility for your game, your next step is to talk with the player about how 
he learned about it, whom he talked to, the in-character steps he took to learn 
it himself, and, if possible, check with any other players who were supposedly 
involved. If you are unconvinced, suggest that you may be willing to let him 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


every action he takes toward that goal. 
Players who are friends in real life may cook up reasons why their 
characters teach each other powerful or rare abilities that, in all probability 
(due to background reasons or the like), they would be extremely unlikely to 
divulge to each other. You can’t police the way people play their characters, but 
there is no harm in talking to them about why their characters are doing this, 
especially if it happens repeatedly. If they can’t satisfy you with a rational 
answer, you may want to nix it. 
GET IN THE LOOP 
Youneed to stay connected with what’s happening in your game, something 
that, while very easy in the confined space of a tabletop game, is a real challenge 
in a game environment where character interaction occurs simultaneously, 
spread out over remote playing areas. Rushing around trying to be everywhere 
at once just stresses you out and, in turn, stresses players out as you whiz by. 
This point is where your Narrators come in. They are your eyes and ears 
when you can’t be in the thick of things, and can relay both in-character events 
and player rumblings (even though some things inevitably slip by even the 
most attentive Storyteller/Narrator team). The game should reflect the players 
as much as the players reflect the game, and for that balance to be maintained, 
you must be aware of what’s going on in the players’ microcosm, and not just 
what’s happening in “your” world. Resist the temptation to dismiss player- 
driven plots as buzzing distractions. It’s easy to see them as competition for your 
own storylines, but finding a way to weave them into your plots shows the 
players that their actions are having an in-game effect, and it makes the overall 
game more interesting. 
AGAINST THREATS AND ANTAGONISM 
Tabletop games naturally lend themselves to the troupe working together 
as a unit (albeit loosely sometimes) against a common enemy. This is mostly 
due to the challenge that close physical proximity presents to being truly 
sneaky against your fellow players; how do you scheme effectively when other 
players can’t help but have an inkling of what you’re doing? Not the case in a 
live-action environment, where opportunities to plot against others abound. 
As a result, there is a much greater potential for hurt feelings and player 
hostility that you have to deal with as Storyteller. Again, follow the “encourage 
the best but be prepared for the worst” rule of Storytelling. While you’re not 
being asked to be Big Brother, you are partially responsible for players playing 
nice with each other, and you need to be on your toes to head off awkward 
situations. 
Things to watch out for: 
Players bringing real-life hostility to bear against someone else’s character; 
Players using character situations to manipulate players; 
Players taking advantage of “newbies” who don’t know any better; 
Players using out-of-character information to affect the outcome of the 
game (otherwise known as metagaming); 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


There’s absolutely nothing wrong with players going toe-to-toe against each 
other, so long as it’s done in strict fairness and is appropriate in-character behavior 
for the people inquestion. For some players, the thrill of competition with another 
real person is why they enjoy live-action games in the first place. In conflict 
situations, though, it’s particularly important to make sure that the rules are 
meticulously followed. Players will usually (understandably) be grumpy if their 
characters are killed or otherwise inconvenienced by another player, but being a 
fair and impartial judge goes a long way to making sure hostility doesn’t linger. And 
it can smooth the transition if the player needs to make another character. 
POWER LEVEL 
When you sit down to write the story for your live-action game, you’re 
probably planning that your chronicle is going to span at least a year in real-time. 
In that time, some of the initial characters are going to survive, growing more 
powerful with every experience point, especially if they are given benefits that 
later characters won’t receive during character generation. Predictably, therefore, 
the game reaches a point where the older characters are nearly “untouchable” to 
newly generated characters. This gap in power levels can be very off-putting to 
players who wish to create new characters for your game, as they may feel they 
can’t “compete” with the established characters. As well, the mightier the older 
characters become, the more difficult it is for you to come up with things that can 
stump them. An obstacle that might take new characters weeks to solve might 
take an older character one scene, while an adversary designed to challenge your 
older characters will probably obliterate the younger characters with little effort. 
Power disparity is one of the most devastating ailments in long-running chronicles. 
There are several ways to avoid this: 
Ramp the experience very slowly. Being stingy won’t make players too 
happy, but it means they savor every experience point, and help to keep 
everyone advancing at a similar rate as the character base “turns over.” 
Cap the characters at a set level of experience (like 100). They cease to 
gain experience for playing, but may continue as Storyteller characters. 
Automatically retire characters at a set level of experience. 
Retiredcharactersneednot exit thegameentirely. They canstay on, ifthe player 
is willing, to be permanent or semi-pemanent Storyteller Characters, meaning that 
they become extensions of your will - 
they can help move stories along, mentor 
younger characters, and take direction from you. They maybe helpful insteering away 
young characters from threats that would turn them into hamburger, or throw bait 
to them to encourage them to chase a plot. If the player would rather start a new 
character, the old one can still make cameo appearances. It is up to you what power 
level youwant for yourgame, but keep inmind that suddenly droppingthe power level 
of a game is likely to make the players who are taken by surprise very unhappy. Plan 
out what power level you want your game to be at “cruising altitude,” and make sure 
that all the players are aware of the limitations. 
It’s also a good idea to design plotlines specifically for the “new” folks, and 
keep the older characters so busy with their own super-scary plotlines that they 
have no time to spend with the small fries. It might seem counterproductive to 
be splitting up the game between the powerful and not-so-powerful (after all, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


intentions goes on a mission intended for a highly experienced group,-he’s 
probably going to get mangled beyond recognition. Keep in mind that there 
should be a piece of the pie (that’s not too big to swallow) for every character, 
no matter what his power level is. 
Despite your best efforts to offer something for everyone, some players 
(whether out of overconfidence or ignorance) will try to tackle things well 
beyond their characters’ ability to handle. Remind them that in-character 
actions have in-character consequences, and if they still persist, allow the story 
to unfold as it will. They are responsible for the choices their characters make, 
and you cannot save everyone with suicidal character tendencies. 
COMMON SENSE STUFF THAT OFTEN ISN’T 
BE HONEST WITH YOUR PLAYERS 
This doesn’t mean tell them everything about your storylines. But if you 
have no intention of ever allowing players to do or have something, it is always 
better to say, “I can’t let you do that, it would unbalance the game. I’m sorry” 
than make excuses or let them think they could have it sometime in the future 
when you have no intention of letting it enter your game. Players catch on to 
excuses and delays, and it just wastes time if they’re putting character time 
toward something you aren’t going to allow anyway. 
BE FAIR 
Again, do not favor certain players over certain other players, no matter 
how you feel about them outside of the game. If you are being accused of 
favoritism, take a moment and consider that and the situation honestly: Are 
you, even unconsciously, being more lenient or generous with certain players, 
or discriminating against others? It’s easy to do if you aren’t careful, but the rules 
have to apply to everyone equally. If there are certain players you know you 
won’t be able to be objective with, consider delegating them to aNarrator. The 
way you feel about the player can’t help but subtly influence your in-game 
decisions, and sometimes it’s best just to avoid the situation altogether. 
BE CONSISTENT AND CLEAR 
There is nothing wrong with changing how the rules work, but changing 
how the rules work from session to session makes players go insane with 
frustration! Decide carefully how you want any house rules to work, and if you 
absolutely must change them again, stick with them for at least a few sessions 
before revising. Clearly explain all changes to the group before the session, and 
make sure all “house rules” are printed, posted or otherwise available to your 
player base. Your players must be aware of all changes to rules before gameplay 
begins, and rules should not be changed at every whim. 
BE PROFESSIONAL 
Yes, Storytelling is a hobby, but you are also stepping into a role that carries 
with it a mantle of responsibility. You are the primary role-model for your game. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Flying off the handle every time a player questions a decision, embarrassing a 
player in front of the group, slinging mud at other chronicles in the area, or using 
your position of authority as leverage over the players outside of the game are all 
crippling to a healthy game and the degree of trust players place in you. As well, 
you are the lightning rod for any public interest your game can generate. 
Authorities, from police toparents, may eventually come to you to inquire about 
your activities. Maintaining a high level of honesty and integrity, both within 
and without your game, makes the red tape of your game easier (such as acquiring 
space to play in), and allows everyone involved to feel more comfortable. 
BE OPEN-MINDED 
As much as you may believe that someone is not playing their character well, 
even if you can point to game supplements or rules that support you in this, it is not 
your place to tell them so. If you feel that someone does not understand the game, 
simply approach him and politely ask him why his character is doing what he’s 
doing (particularly if the character is going against what you see as a fundamental 
tenet of that character archetype). Perhaps he doesn’t understand the game system, 
or maybe he isn’t as versed in the World of Darkness mythos as you are. Helping 
a player understand where his character might be coming from is preferable to flatly 
criticizing. There really is no “right” or “wrong” way to play a character; there are 
only actions and consequences. Dictating to someone exactly how to play his 
character is futile and takes away freedom of individuality, and few players put up 
with a heavy-handed or overly critical Storyteller for long. 
RELAXI 
Storytellers who are used to the clockwork-control that tabletop games offer 
sometimes suffer from Buttinski Syndrome (also known as “micromanaging”). 
These Storytellers lose their cool when their main plotlines derail, or an important 
Storyteller character gets killed, or anything happens that they didn’t account for, 
and they often try to “railroad” players back into doing what they want them to do. 
In a live-action setting, that kind of control leaves players feeling like puppets - 
it doesn’t matter what they do, the game is going to go the way the Storyteller wants 
anyway. Nothing is worse for a player than feeling powerless! 
Relax. Adapt. Roll with the punches. Isn’t that what you’re asking players 
to do every time the game starts? 
STORY BEGINNINGS 
There really is no practical formula for building a good story. If there were, 
all chronicles would have the same feel, and players would get bored. The 
stories you’ll be telling start with a core idea - 
your idea - 
and evolve, 
branching off and interweaving, changing and being reinvented. It can be 
difficult to find the right note. Locking yourself into a story arc that’s overly 
defined doesn’t allow players much ingenuity or creativity to make their own 
plots, but also having no idea where you want the chronicle to go frustrates 
players because they’re not sure what they should be doing. 
Writing a good story for your players requires a combination of set pieces 
(things that won’t change because they are necessary to the story) and shifting 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


variables (to add interest and unpredictability). All you can do is set the scene 
as creatively and vividly as you can, and let the players find their own way 
through it. Sometimes they’ll miss the obvious clue you laid out in the middle 
of the floor, and other times, they’ll doggedly pursue minute details that you 
never dreamed would become central to the characters’ actions. Either way, 
that is all in the spirit of the game. 
Laws of Resurrection presents some unique twists on the live-action 
dynamic; even if you’ve run other games in the Mind’s Eye Theatre line, the 
Amenti will pose unusual challenges to your abilities. Not only are the 
characters challenging to play - 
since the players must not only be thinking 
of who they were when they died in modem times, but also who they were when 
the pyramids still gleamed white in the sun and the Sphinx was whole -but 
you must also explore spiritual journeys, horrific enemies and foreign locations 
in detail, all while fighting the sense of stasis that accompanies characters who 
are unlikely to truly die. Make no mistake - 
this game requires the highest 
standards of integrity from your players, and careful and creative planning on 
your part. This game setting can provide players the chance to explore the 
delicious balance between death and life, corruption and purity, combat and 
contemplation - 
the choicest cuts of live-action play on one platter. 
THEME 
Starting your game with a theme gives you a platform to branch out from, 
as well as a solid backbone that you can tie everything back to. Having a theme 
is useful to lend your game coherence, instead of a ragtag patchwork of unrelated 
ideas cobbled together. This is not to say that the ideas in your game won’t appear 
unrelated at times; but you will know better as you can see the entire picture. 
Some Storytellers don’t need to consciously choose a theme to guide their 
chronicles, but for inexperienced Storytellers, having a baseline to return to is 
helpful. When the inevitable Storyteller’s block strikes, remember the theme. 
Hope, Redemption, Unity, Tragedy, Morality, Mortality, Corruption, 
Romance and Enlightenment are all examples. Theme isn’t a cudgel you whack 
players with; it’s more of an underpinning that supports the plots, tying them 
together and permitting them to flow smoothly into each other. If your theme 
is Romance, that doesn’t mean you have to try playing matchmaker for the 
characters. It could mean that when you were crafting the background, stories 
and setting of your game, you kept the ideas of love, sensuality and romance 
weaving through everything. From the singular central theme can branch off 
related ideas, such as unrequited love, love lost to time, the bonds between 
parent and child or spouses or obsession. 
It is not necessary for players to identify your game’s theme at first, but it 
should become apparent to them over time. If you feel that your chosen theme 
has begun to stagnate, or has become too obvious, you can always change it to 
something different. Some Storytellers change the theme on a regular basis (such 
as every three months or so) to keep the game chaotic and unpredictable; others 
use randomized indicators (such as Tarot cards) as inspiration for their stories. 
Nearly any theme you wish to explore is possible in the world of the Amenti. 
The complex nature of mummies affords you the ability to push your game to 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


extremes that other creatures in the World of Darkness aren’t geared to handle. 
One theme you should ulwuys have running through this game, however, is that 
of Balance (or, inversely, Unbalance). Players must constantly be reminded of 
the razor-fine line they are asked to walk, under the watchful eyes of the Judges 
of Ma’at. It is absolutely integral that reminders of this perilous spiritual path, a 
moral equilibrium that can be of life or death importance, be built into your 
plotlines and setting (at least as a subtle backdrop). 
MOOD 
Creating mood in live-action games is a passive thought process (when 
pertaining to the particular manner in which plots are unfolded by the 
Storyteller) and an active physical endeavor (using props and venue as tools to 
provide realism and evoke emotion). The physical aspect of mood is thoroughly 
discussed later in this chapter. 
Mood is subtle. If theme is “What kind of story are you telling?” then mood 
is “HOW are you telling the story?” It’s the light in which you cast things. The 
same basic story can be told a thousand different ways and prompt a different 
audience reaction each time. As a Storyteller, the way you choose to present 
your story should depend on what players are looking for. You can’t please 
everybody, so having a couple of different “flavors” of mood is wise. Returning 
to the earlier theme of Romance, a mood of despair can set the stage for 
unrequited passions or lost opportunities, while a mood of change suggests new 
vistas and encouragement to take risks. 
Are your players looking for angst? Ferocity? Gritty realism? Idyllic fantasy? 
Some troupes thrive on horrific grotesquerie, while others prefer their stories to take 
a more refined, neo-Victorian bent. Are your antagonists slavering psychotics or 
refined masterminds? Do they prefer happy endings?These aren’t questions you can 
ask of players without giving away too much of your plotlines, so play the sleuth. 
Take your cues from what the players themselves are attempting to do in downtime 
notes or in session, and gauge the moods you wish to cast in that way. 
Be careful when exploring more gruesome atmospheres, however - 
some 
players find fictional ultra-horror objectionable. When particularly lurid events 
occur in your game, you may wish to downplay the gross-out factor to players when 
you aren’t sure they can stomach it. Some moods are not suitable for players under 
a certain age. Use your best judgment, and if you know your game is going to delve 
into extremely mature themes, consider putting an age limit on your player base. 
PLOT 
In a book or movie, the plot is the static progression of events for the 
characters; that is to say, the outcome is the same every time you read the book 
or watch the movie. Not so in a live-action game. You create the landscape 
players move in, decide who (and what) they are going to encounter, craft 
puzzles for them to solve, and conjure rewards for the brave and crafty, but you 
cannot write or direct every step of the way. Trying to herd players through a 
scriptlike plot takes away their freedom of movement, and results in you and 
your players butting heads over what they “can” and “can’t’’ do. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


-- Sowhywriteaplot atall?Whynotjustletplayersgraze thr 
aimlessly if they can’t be expected to follow your story? The answer is obvious: 
Storyteller-provided plots are an external, unifying, ongoing challenge for all 
players, if they choose to involve themselves. Many, many plots in a live-action 
game are player-driven, but having ever-present Storyteller plots hovering in 
the background (and occasionally crashing everyone else’s parties) brings 
players together to work toward a common goal. 
SCALE AND SCOPE 
The scale of your game refers to the physical size of your game (do you have 
300 players in an opera theater, or five friends in your living room?) and to the 
in-game time span (does the game encompass a few months of the characters’ 
lives, or a few lifetimes?). You need to be realistic on both counts. Having an 
enormous game may sound like a great idea, but how are you going to find a 
physical venue that can support that many people? If in a public place, are you 
aware of any laws regarding the gathering of groups over a certain size in your 
city? How many players are you prepared to organize notes and bookkeeping- 
related paperwork for? 
Imbuing your story with epic chronological proportions lends grandeur to 
the chronicle, but can you make it run smoothly with a minimum of confusion? 
Have you thought about how to keep all players up to date with regard to where 
they are in the timeline? Are you able to accurately represent historical details, 
if necessary? 
Two main ideas you need to keep in the forefront concerning the scale of 
your game are the number of players you as a Storyteller can realistically 
organize, and the number of players your plot(s) can handle without becoming 
too difficult. It’s best to keep your plots simple (in real-time) with a large group 
of players, while a smaller group of players can afford you more creative leeway. 
Balancing the ratio of players to plot complexity is a good way to keep your work 
level at a manageable average. That’s not to say that a large group necessitates 
a simplistic plot; it means that keeping it simple will save you headaches. 
If you haven’t run a live-action game before, consider keeping your initial 
number ofplayers to a generous handful. You can always open the game up later 
when you’ve got things firmly by the reins. Conversely, if you ever find you’ve 
let the player scale run away from you and your game is sagging under the weight 
of too many players, cap new submissions until the equilibrium between game 
quality and game quantity is regained. 
The scope of your game is less measurable than its scale. It is the amount of 
free will you allow your players, or how long their leashes stretch. Do some of your 
plots require information gathered from remote regions of the world, or will the 
characters get everything they need to know from local sources? Are the 
characters able to influence global events, or is that beyond their reach? While 
you have probably already laid down guidelines for yourself concerning the 
experience ramp you’re going to give players, think about how far you will allow 
their actions to ripple, and whether or not you’re going to have storylines that 
reach across several continents. Scope is particularly important in Laws of 
Resurrection, as the beating heart of the Amenti throbs in the Middle East, but 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


many character soriginatedonother continents before their hajj, withunfinished 
business to pursue in the lands where they died. 
If you want to allow players the ability to influence global events, or wield 
magnificent, earth-shattering power, be prepared to do your homework. It can 
be a lot of fun to have your troupe travel to exotic locales, but it’s also difficult 
to regularly execute. Constant set/scene changes are exhausting for you, 
especially if you are very detail-oriented. Are you willing to do the necessary 
research to accurately describe different regions and customs? You have to be 
versed in different locales’ traditions and political climes, and other creatures 
in the World of Darkness may not like strangers waltzing through their 
stomping grounds, or interfering with “their” people. Are your players willing 
to deal with the constant mental “jet lag” at remembering where they are 
supposed to be all the time? Give this serious thought before committing to a 
frequent-flyer game plan. Decide ahead of time how much extra work you wish 
to make for yourself, and remember you can always expand the players’ reach 
later when you have a better feel for the game. 
A wide-scope game affords unusual opportunities - 
jaunts to faraway 
lands, acquisitions of legendary artifacts -but 
a smaller scope lends the plots 
an “in my backyard” urgency. A balance between adventure and stability is 
often the best. 
Scope presents a thorny problem with regard to the Amenti, as their holy 
sites are based in the Web of Faith in the Middle East, but the mummies 
themselves will be different nationalities. If you choose to set your game 
somewhere other than the Middle East, be aware that all mummies begin their 
existence there, and they will periodically need to return there to recharge their 
Sekhem. It might be easiest to set your chronicle in the Web of Faith, and make 
journeys elsewhere to be special plot elements, as opposed to setting your game 
in (for example) the United States. Setting your game in a possibly foreign 
location (such as Egypt) might take a little more homework and planning, but 
it may be easier than juggling the players’ overseas jaunts every few sessions. 
PLOT TYPES 
The overplot is the state of the world players are playing in - 
the 
macrocosm of the game. Work out all major details first; otherwise, you’re 
trying to write a story with no background or setting! 
Where is your game set (continent/country/city/etc.)? What is the current 
political climate? What are some major current events happening in your game 
world? Who are the movers and shakers, and (more importantly) who controls 
them? Even if these details never come into play, setting them up now makes for 
some juicy plot hooks later. Perhaps a major antagonist is closely tied to a political 
leader that characters have just formed anunwitting alliance with, or aneighboring 
country is about to declare war on the homeland of a character and he asks his 
allies to aid him in preventing the conflict. The more articulated and thought- 
out your game world is, the more believable and vivid it will be to your players. 
Another part of overplot is game-specific; initially, why have all these 
characters come together? Have they been called by a higher power to discover 
why certain surreal events are occurring? Is a mysterious force manipulating the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


situation so that all the characters are in the same place for some unknown 
design? Whatever the reason, you have a perfect opportunity to plant a 
shadowy seed at the start of the game that won’t come to fruition until much 
later, and you can have many plot offshoots in the meantime. 
Next, stemmingdirectly or indirectly from the overplot aresubplots. They 
are ongoing challenges that keep the pace of the game reasonably brisk. 
Examples include dealing with antagonists, lost objects, quests for knowledge 
and other situations that can usually be resolved in one to 10 game sessions. It’s 
a good idea to have two or three “active” at a time, to allow different types of 
characters to all get in on the action. While the overplot should not be focused 
on one player character, it is perfectly acceptable to use character Merits, Flaws, 
Backgrounds and histories as springboards to launch subplots. Subplots are also 
a great way to make sure some of the less splashy Flaws get brought into play. 
Player plots, or miniplots, are player-originated stories. They may only 
entail two or three players on a personal quest or mission, but they are often the 
most emotional experiences for players. Often they don’t require Storyteller or 
Narrator interference at all, but sometimes actions are taken that require you 
to take some time out of the main game to describe what effects players’ actions 
are having. Miniplots should not be discouraged, but you can’t spend all your 
time running mini-games and neglecting the game as a whole. The best way to 
deal with these types of plots are to either let players work it out themselves (or 
possibly with Narrator assistance), or in the case of a particularly creative 
miniplot, pounce on it and tie it in to become a full-fledged subplot. You may 
run into players who want you “all to themselves” all the time, but your 
commitment is to the entire body of players, not the individual. 
HOW TO E L L  A STORY IN FIVE EASY STEPS1 
All cinematic (story) plots follow the same loose formula: Preparation, 
Opening, Climax, Denouement and Conclusion. Each stage need not occupy 
the same length of game time, and sometimes the stages may seem to blur 
together. These guidelines offer a tried-and-true method of conveying events 
that can be extremely helpful to live-action Storytellers. 
Preparation involves setting up the scene for the events to come, 
foreshadowing, and introducing the main characters, allies and foes. 
Opening involves going into character development more deeply, 
establishing character relationships and building upon existing friction. 
Climax is, well, the climax - when those things that were foreshadowed in 
the Preparation phase come into play, when the shot rings out, when the traitor 
is revealed, and when other traumatic events happen. Sometimes the climax 
is positive (winning a challenge, defeating a powerful foe), and other times it 
is negative (a murder, the destruction of a holy object). 
Denouement is the “cleaning up” section. Reactions, reparations, and the 
reordering of relationships and allegiances in the aftermath of the Climax. This 
time is usually when the plot officially ends, possibly leading into another story. 
Conclusion is when the moral or lessons of the story (if any) are made 
clearer in out-of-character and in-character discussion, and (if the story stages 
are being used in a session-based context) when players pack up and go home. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


STORYTELLING 101: THE CRAFT 
The theories behind running a live-action game were discussed earlier. In 
this section are the practicalities: things to consider or anticipate to keep your 
game running smoothly, and the nitty-gritty realities of Storytelling a game. 
BEFORE EVERYTHING ELSE ... 
Do you have players interested in playing Laws of Resurrection? Have 
they roleplayed in a live-action environment before? What kind of game are 
they looking for? This game is challenging even for experienced players, with 
sporadic (but intense) combat and a strict moral code the characters must try 
to abide by, not to mention the smatterings of Egyptian mythology and 
terminology that are crucial to understanding the Amenti perspective. 
Do you have the time/resources to devote to Storytelling? Apart from the 
obvious few hours’ investment of a game session proper, live-action games 
require a lot of between-game work. This work includes the acquisition and 
upkeep of a venue from which to host the game, recruiting players, sitting down 
with players to create their characters, planning the next phase of the story, 
disseminating information (such as any setting/real-life venue changes and 
game times), updating character sheets, answering innumerable player questions, 
and so on. Incumbent also upon a Storyteller are startup costs (a venue may 
require renting, character sheets need paper, props and so on). Realism does get 
expensive! 
BOOKKEEPING 
No person has a perfect mental database; you can’t just keep track of 
everything in your head. Running a game requires tracking and updating a 
million facts and details, and that simply isn’t possible without some serious, 
thought-out organization. You need backup and paper copies of every player’s 
current and updated character sheet (for reference in case of dispute), and you 
have to process downtime actions (the time between actual sessions), keep 
track of how experience is spent, correlate players’ actions against each other 
and the game world itself, and make any story or plot adjustments in reaction 
to player actions. A host of other small details can be sand in the gears of a 
smooth-running game if you aren’t on top of it at all times. 
How you choose to organize yourself is dictated by personal tastes. Some 
Storytellers use computer databases, while others shuffle everything around on 
paper. Whatever your filing system, establish it as much as you can ahead of 
time, before the game begins to gain momentum. And save players’ downtime 
actions and your responses to them, to refer back to later if necessary. Many 
Storytellers have a computer backup of all their relevant information, and they 
bring paper copies of everything to the game. You may find that you have to go 
back to a player’s character sheet or note actions several times in order to make 
informed, in-game decisions. It’s better to take a moment and be sure, than to 
make a snap decision about a character’s abilities or resources that later proves 
to be wrong. Accept that you won’t be able to remember everything, and thus 
keep the information at your fingertips. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the course of -play, players will cross off things they’ve spent, or make 
character notes in the margins. Because of this constant altering, character 
sheets can quickly become unintelligible and confusing in later sessions. Save 
players the trouble of trying to remember what they have spent and what they 
haven’t, or what information is now relevant to them, and provide them with 
a new sheet each session. 
The world engine of your game doesn’t grind to a halt between game 
sessions, and neither do the characters’ lives; so you should provide “downtime 
actions’’ to your players. These actions usually take the form of your players 
writing you anote ofwhat they’re doing betweengatherings-what experience 
they’re spending, who they’re talking to, what they’re learning, and the like. 
Some Storytellers give “carte blanche” to their players, allowing them to do as 
much as they like. More realismebased Storytellers divide the notes into a finite 
number of “actions” that the characters can perform in the given limited time. 
When your players try to spend their experience points, encourage them to 
explain to you how they’re learning that particular Ability, especially if it’s not 
something that’s easily taught. Is it realistic for a scholarly bookworm to 
suddenly teach himself Brawl? Likewise, is a thuggish mercenary type going to 
easily teach herself Performance: Dunce? If it doesn’t make sense to you, make 
the player work for it. 
Convincing players to get their downtime actions to you by a set date can 
be difficult, but it’s necessary for you to give yourself plenty of time to reconcile 
the characters’ actions with the plot(s) and to incorporate any character 
changes. Therefore, set a hard date that players must have their notes to you 
by (either paper notes or by email, for example) and stick by it. You owe it to 
yourself to not be racing at the last moment to incorporate stragglers. Players 
will learn that if they want to spend experience they will have to accommodate 
your schedule, not the other way around! It sounds harsh, but you can expect 
to spend between two and eight hours a week processing your game’s paperwork 
alone - the least they can do is get you their actions on time. 
VENUE 
Thorough consideration must be given to the venue. First, is it going to be 
in a private home, or a public (or semi-public) location? Playing in someone’s 
basement, for example, can give you wonderful options for set decoration, high- 
drama roleplaying or music that might not be permissible in a public place, but 
it can still pose problems. Theft, damage, illegal activity and legal liability are all 
pitfalls when playing in someone’s home; as well, in a more “intimate” setting, 
some of the fundamental roleplaying rules (such as no touching) can easily be 
bent or broken. In a small game, with people you know and trust, this usually isn’t 
a problem. But in a large game, these can be real issues. Private games are always 
more intense, with all the good and bad that carries with it. 
Public venues may make players feel that they are more limited with how 
their characters can express themselves, and your options for altering the physical 
scene are seriously hampered, but they can also provide a sense of safety for 
players, especially shy or inexperienced ones. Examples of public venues include 
parks, coffee shops and restaurants. If you choose to conduct your game in a public 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


venue, respect the people around you! If a noisy, distracting or emotional scene 
is going to be played out in front of persons not involved with the game, your best 
option is to freeze the action and continue it at a later time, or away from the 
venue. Do not frighten the non-garners! As well, coffee shops and restaurants 
usually require people to buy something; make players aware that if people do not 
support the establishment, you may be asked to leave. 
Your (usually) most expensive option is also the most popular: semi-public 
venues, such as a convention center, warehouse space or university rooms. The 
fee for these places can range from a mere pittance (such as in the case of most 
university rooms, if someone from that institution is willing to “sponsor” or take 
responsibility for booking the space), to high-priced (such as in the case of a 
hotel convention room). You have some freedom with regard to altering the 
physical space to reflect your game, but it also has the “safe” feel of a public 
location. There still may be the occasional non-gamer wandering around, and 
you should still be keeping their comfort level in mind, but you have the 
freedom to mostly play scenes as you wish. Some players do not mind paying 
a small fee to book quality game space, but discuss it with your players. 
SETTING THE STAGE 
So you have all the theoretical things sorted out with regard to theme and 
mood and plot; now comes the dirty work. How are you going to reflect those 
things in the physical environment that players are immersed in? 
Often, a few sensory “triggers” (such as sound, color or scent) are enough 
to give your venue the flavor it needs to draw in the players’ imaginations. Take 
physical cues into consideration when planning a session. The easier it is for 
players to project themselves into a foreign frame of mind, the more “real” the 
scene seems. Lighting is the easiest variable, with the most impact; a few well- 
placed soft lamps can transform a space from utilitarian to mysterious. 
Public venues, as they cannot usually be substantially altered, work best as 
representations of themselves. If your players are in a coffee shop, why not have 
the characters be in one as well (albeit altered to reflect the World of Darkness)? 
This makes following social etiquette with regard to other patrons much easier, 
as it’s unlikely the characters want to cause a scene any more than their players 
would. In a semi-private place, you may have the option to play background 
music appropriate to the story setting, post things temporarily on the walls, and 
move furniture around to suit the atmosphere you’re trying to create; it’s always 
best to ask the proprietors of the location if you’re at all in doubt. They usually 
tell you that so long as nobody else is disturbed and everything is returned to how 
you found it, you are free to do as you like (within reason). Of course, private 
locations offer the most freedom of expression in creating your setting; you can 
paint walls, play louder music, even build more elaborate sets to truly reflect the 
game environment and thus create a total immersion. 
Another way to aid players in suspending their disbelief is the use of props, 
whichareobjects (orrepresentationsofobjects) 
used inplay.Thefirstandmost 
unimpeachable rule regarding props is No Weapons. This is absolutely firm in 
the case of real weapons, and applies to toys as well. Realistic toy weapons can 
be mistaken for the real thing at a distance, and in these tense times, it’s better 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to &r on the side of paranoia. Police do not like to see real weapons or even 
realistic toys, so use your common sense. This rule is a must. Even if you’re 
playing in a private location, real weapons are never allowed. 
Set up which props and/or set dressing you’ll need before the game, and notify 
players in advance of what kind of props you allow and those you don’t. This is also 
a good time to advise your players of any dress code you wish to apply to your game; 
public and semi-public venues are not good places to have people wandering 
around in various states of undress, no matter how in-character it may be. 
CHARACTER CREATION 
Character creation is best done either way before a game gathering, or 
during downtime. If you try to squeeze a character in right before the session 
begins, you may get so flustered trying to get everything done in time that you 
fecklessly approve some unbalancing character that you only wail about in 
hindsight. It’s best to take a generous amount of time with the prospective 
player, especially if they are new to live-action games or Resurrection, to 
explain the concepts and goals of the game so that they can come up with 
vibrant character backgrounds and strong plot-hooks that feed into the story. 
Make sure that each player has a firm grasp of any in-house rules and customs, 
as well as a working knowledge of the official rules. A hard-copy of the house 
rules, given to the player at character creation, go a long way toward heading 
off any disputes or confusion down the road. 
PLAYER DYNAMIC 
Every game has its continuum of goal-oriented vs. story-oriented players 
who have different ideas about what it means to play the game. To goal- 
oriented players, it’s all about getting ahead, making progress, becoming 
powerful or influential - 
“winning” the game. For the story-oriented player, 
it’s about the drama, the emotions or ideas evoked by the situations in the story, 
character growth, the rise and fall of character relationships - 
“playing” the 
game. Goal-oriented players usually react very strongly (though not necessarily 
negatively) to any loss or impediment their character suffers, while a story- 
oriented player often shrug and grin, accepting it as just another new facet of 
their character’s personality. Naturally, being a continuum, most players fall 
in-between these two extremes, but it’s important to have a good grasp of what 
both types are after so that you can fairly arbitrate the inevitable disputes. In 
writing stories, mix and balance the two types if you can. 
Common difficulties with goal-oriented players include: being a poor or 
vengeful loser; transferring in-character hostility out-of-character; trying to 
tackle obstacles too powerful for their characters to wrestle; cheating or using 
out-of-character information (metagaming); being overly argumentative (or 
whiny or ingratiating); and rules-lawyering (finding technical loopholes in 
rules that permit them to abuse the system). In extreme cases, these people will 
turn on their heels and storm out of a game because their characters don’t get 
what they think they should have. What can you do?Talk to the player, explain 
why the situation is going the way it is, and offer suggestions or alternate 
approaches to the problem. Showing them a different road to reach the same 
goal may fire their imaginations and renew their interest in the game. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Common difficulties with unduly story-oriented players include: having 
suicidal,’.nasochistic tendencies; focusing only on tinyplots; blurring the lines 
between reality and fantasy; using the game as an opportunity for personal 
catharsis; creating characters with severe, crippling Flaws; creating overly 
emotional scenes with other players; repeatedly requesting or pursuing rare, 
weird or nearly unattainable things (think Don Quixote); and requiring that 
their character always be “different” in some significant way, even if it is 
detrimental or inappropriate to the game. Their characters may consistently 
fail, die, or otherwise become subjugated, while their players are baffled and end 
up shrugging, “But I was just playing my character.. . .” Often having a talk with 
these players about how they feel about their characters’ demise, and encouraging 
them to take less flawed characters, can help them find a balance between 
character purity and success in the game. 
STORYTELWPLAYER RELATIONS 
Players always have their own desires for the direction of the game, and 
strive to make them reality, sometimes by callous or courageous moves they 
may never have in “real life.” It’s up to the Storyteller to ensure that everyone 
is on a level playing field. Players trust the Storyteller to be fair and impartial, 
and whenever there is evidence to the contrary, it shakes the pillars of the 
game, underminingplayers’ trust in their only real authority figure: you. It’s also 
your responsibility to know the rules (both official and in-house) backward and 
forward, and to interpret the fuzzy sections quickly and fairly. A good Storyteller 
should be able to talk to players and listen to their concerns without 
compromising impartiality or making snap decisions - and if a mistake is made, 
to admit it and repair it quickly. 
You need to be approachable; otherwise, people may shy away from talking 
to you about their concerns and ideas, and you will have no idea how they really 
feel about the way the game is going. You may even become out of the loop of 
player miniplots. You will grow tired of some of the players’ complaints, but 
handling the social aspect of your game diplomatically is part and parcel of 
being a good Storyteller. There is never a good reason to be rude to a player, and 
that kind of behavior alienates people from your game. 
Players sometimes take the game too seriously and become personally 
influenced by things their characters are involved in. It’s great that they’re 
becoming so engrossed in the game, but when in-character interactions begin to 
have serious effects on players’ real lives, the Storyteller should remind everyone 
that it is just a game. Like any fun recreation, it can be easy to give roleplaying 
more impact on your life than it ought to have. As the Storyteller, it’s up to you 
to spot players who might be taking the game too seriously, and nip it in the bud. 
If the chronicle begins to interfere with work, school and other social activities, 
it’s time to pull back and take a good look - 
this goes for you too! 
EXPERIENCE 
Experience points are very important to the advancement rate of your 
game. They dictate both how powerful characters can become, and how 
quickly they become so. Typically you shouldn’t award more than one or two 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


experience points per person per session, with an occasional extra few for going 
“above and beyond” with roleplaying, costume, logistical help and the like. 
Keep running tallies of each character’s experience - how much earned and 
how much spent. It will give you a good indication of how quickly your game 
is progressing and let you tweak the tempo. Handing out experience like nougat 
candy at Halloween may make your players happy in the short term, but it dulls 
the game in the long run if their goals are too easy to achieve. 
Some Storytellers prefer to award experience publicly, having other 
players vote during the game’s wrap-up (with players’ backs turned) on who 
they enjoyed roleplaying against the most that session. Others ask for player 
feedback in downtime notes. The advantage of asking for immediate player 
opinion when giving roleplaying experience is that the evening’s adventures 
are fresh in everyone’s minds, and it can be a wonderful perk to particularly 
enthusiastic players to get that kind of instant, and public, gratification at the 
end of a session. However, thin-skinned players may not like the competitive 
feel that this kind ofvoting can foster. Talk toplayers about whether they prefer 
public or private experience recognition, and use their majority and your 
common sense to make the right decision for your game. 
Amore detailed list ofopportunities to award experience, at your discretion, 
could look like this: surviving the game session; strong roleplaying with regard 
to Nature, Demeanor and Archetype; excellent costuming or attention to 
detail; player honesty above and beyond the norm (or being a “good sport”); the 
conclusion of a storyline; and possibly for helping WithNarrationduties. When 
you give roleplaying bonuses, popular acclaim is a good start, but not all players 
do their best acting in public, and just because someone is popular or loud or 
flamboyant doesn’t mean that others shouldn’t be rewarded for playing a more 
sedate character properly. 
Don’t forget the catchall phrase, “Because I feel like giving it.” But when 
awarding experience for “personal” reasons, be wary of accusations of favoritism, 
and give this kind of “because you’re nifty” experience sparingly. Also, if you 
are in the habit of awarding experience points publicly, awarding experience 
points under the table is generally not a good idea. Secrets are difficult to keep 
in a live-action game setting, and this kind of shady experience “dealing” can 
cast you in an unflattering light if your other players find out, especially if it’s 
more than just one or two people. 
NARRATORS 
Narrators are Storytellers’ best friends. They are extra eyes, ears and brains, 
and work closely with them to play special Storyteller characters, act as scene 
arbiters, and generally take some of the stress of trying to be everywhere at once 
off the Storyteller. Anyone being a Narrator has to have a good grasp of the rules 
of the game, both official and in-house. A Narrator also has to be reliable, as he 
takes on some of the responsibilities of a Storyteller. There is no limit as to the 
number of Narrators your game can have, but a good ratio of players to Narrators 
is between five and 10 to one. One caveat about working with Narrators is that 
a Storyteller must go over what she wants for the game, and it is imperative that 
the Storyteller keep the Narrators informed on a regular basis in order to not have 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to overrule them and undermine their authority. Narrators who aren’t clearly 
informed about what it is you want from them from session to session are of no 
help to you, and will probably feel frustrated that they aren’t sure what they’re 
supposed to be doing. Narrators should be visible as such, whether they’re in 
costume as a Storyteller character or not. Name tags with “Narrator” on them 
work well to identify your roaming deputies to players, though in smaller games, 
players usually learn who the Narrators are in the course of play. 
One dilemma you’ll have to wrestle with in choosing Narrators is whether 
they will be functioning player characters with a stake in the plotlines, or are 
they fringe-dwellers, acting as Storyteller characters or as an extra hand for you. 
Of course, if your Narrators are also players, they have to tread carefully to avoid 
using information that they may have gleaned from Storyteller interaction. 
They might make decisions that unfairly benefit their own characters. Because 
of this potential for corruption, it’s important that Narrators who are also 
playing their own characters be of high and unquestionable character. 
KEEPING THE FISH HOOKED 
It’s not enough as a Storyteller to present the game to players; the game has 
to be interesting, captivating, thrilling, challenging, engaging and a host of 
other adjectives. In short, you have to make players want to play the game. 
Inevitably, no matter what you do, you’re going to have players complain of 
boredom (which usually means that they’re not sure what their character 
should be doing). Don’t gnash your teeth in frustration, aching to show them 
how many plots are happening right under their noses that they’re seemingly 
unaware of. Accept that you can’t please everyone all of the time, and just do 
your best to make the game unpredictable and fun. That’s not to say that all 
players who make this complaint are crackpots. What you have to determine 
as a Storyteller is whether there is validity to the cries of “I’m bored!” (maybe 
it really wasn’t such a good idea to create a game around that year’s tax laws), 
or whether those players, for whatever reason, are not as involved with your 
plotlines as they might like to be. Either way, if there’s a lack of interest, it’s up 
to you to determine what can or should be done about it. 
HOW M A N Y  MUMMIES? 
The Amenti bring particular challenges to a game setting due to a number 
of peculiarities in their story. Stories about the pursuit of Balance, lost lives, 
immortality and high morality are very challenging and not for the faint of 
spirit (for Storyteller or player). Amenti have few reasons to congregate each 
week in the same way that vampires gather for Elysium or changelings meet at 
the freehold. You may also have problems with finding players -perhaps you 
have only three players interested in Resurrection, or the troupe currently 
enjoys their Ascension chronicle too much to pick up something else for a 
while. So now what? 
The Amenti recognize that their duty to Ma’at takes them far afield, and 
sometimes adversity makes strange bedfellows. That said, Amenti are fine 
characters to seed into other World of Darkness chronicles. For all intents and 
purposes, they are human - 
immortal humans, to be sure - 
and humans can 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


strange old man who keeps an “understanding” with the prince, the femme fatale 
who’s also a brilliant chemist, or the scarred laconic gent who steps out of the 
shadows to protect an inexperienced hunter and disappears just as mysteriously. 
Solo Amenti characters can be easy to find. Sometimes, you can announce 
that you’ll accept Amenti characters in your mortal or mage chronicle, and the 
interested will respond (therest being too happy with their current characters). 
You could also end up with a slew of mediocre histories from mediocre players 
who just want the thrill of playing something with kewl powerz. If no candidate 
stands out, another option is to have Amenti be “by audition”- 
offer 
mummies to those that have consistently proven themselves capable of 
challenging roleplay. This offer can lead to hurt feelings, but point out to any 
whiners that the Amenti are high-stakes roleplaying, and until you see them 
bring in characters other than their latest leather-jacketed, six-Flaws-and- 
three-derangements, quoting-Monty-Python Wolverine clones, you’re not 
sure they’re up for the challenge. In the end, it’s your game, and you know best 
how you want the trains to run. 
Should you be so lucky as to have more than five folks show up with an 
interest in Resurrection, your job becomes tougher. Mummies rarely gather in 
large groups outside the Web of Faith or h a t ,  and unless you want to set your 
game in the Underworld or a foreign location (which comes with an entirely new 
set of worries in addition to the usual ones of Storytelling), you need a reason for 
everyone to get together. You might set the chronicle in one of the various sects 
that numbers mummies among its beneficiaries and leaders. The Ashukhi 
Corporation takes on the monstrous behemoths of World of Darkness industry, 
and a chronicle of high-stakes corporate maneuverings against one of the 
subsidiaries of Pentex and the minions of Apophis could be very exciting indeed, 
particularly if you feel like being adventurous and crossing the streams with a 
Garou chronicle. Perhaps Ashukhi archaeologists are competing with Setites to 
hunt down Egyptian artifacts. There are several also religious sects among the 
mummies, from the Shemsu-heru to the Cult of Isis to the Eset-a, where 
mummies and mortals frequently assist one another on various tasks. This may 
be an established cell tasked with a particular job, or it may be newly formed and 
set down in the midst of the enemy in an effort to create a foothold for Ma’at. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


As the Amenti travel the spiritual pathways between death and life, so do 
others navigate their own vessels through the World of Darkness. Some, like 
the Children of Apophis, are outright diabolical and oppose the Amenti at 
every opportunity. The motives and origins of many others, however, are 
shrouded in mystery. 
It’s difficult to give the exact statistics of an antagonist, as players will (by 
default, after reading this) know their opponent’s strengths and weaknesses 
already if they’re presented in excruciating detail, and that will take much of 
the suspense out of the encounters. Therefore, this is only intended to be a 
guide to the beings that players will encounter. 
APEPNU 
As the Amenti serve Osiris with righteousness and compassion, so do the 
Apepnu (Children of Apophis, or Bane mummies) serve Apophis with 
corruption and cruelty. In older days Set stole and perverted the Rite of 
Rebirth, melding Banes - demonic spirits with no concept of humanity - 
with evil humans, creating the perfect tools for the Corruptor. They were 
intended as the dark mirrors of the Amenti, and they did their jobs very well 
indeed. 
Fortunately for the Amenti, there are only seven of these accursed Bane 
mummies in existence. They are Amam the Devourer, Hau-hraof the Backward 
Face, Hemhemti the Roarer, Kharebutu the Fourfold Fiend, Qetu the Evil 
Doer, Saatet-ta Darkener of the Earth, and Tutu the Doubly Evil One. In a 
technical sense, Qetu and Saatet-ta are female, though such pedantic physical 
distinctions mean little to creatures never meant to spawn. 
For centuries, the Apepnu occasionally aided the vampires known as the 
Followers of Set. However, recent events have seen the two groups apparently 
working at cross-purposes. Some Amenti believe it’s merely a ruse to fool the 
unwary, while other wonder if some enmity has arisen between Apophis and 
his once-favored servant, or if the Bane mummies have spumed their creator 
for Apophis. 
The path of resurrection is similar between Bane mummies and Amenti, 
except that when they are killed, Bane mummies do not face the Judges of 
Ma’at; instead, their soul plummets directly to Apophis’ hellish abyss, to be 
spewed forth again to the physical plane when needed. Because of the vagaries 
of their perverted version of the Rite of Rebirth, the Children of Apophis’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


or use any Appearance-related Social Trait without the use of disguising magic 
(unless otherwise noted in the Bane’s description). As well, while their true 
form is apparent, Banes may not initiate any kind of Social Challenge, except 
to intimidate, mislead or bully (though they may defend as usual). Bane 
mummies share certain base Traits and have individual quirks and abilities 
unique to the Bane in question. Bane mummies are rare and atrociously 
powerful, and should be encountered neither lightly nor often. They are the 
Seven Faces of Apophis and did not survive this long against all the forces of 
Ma’at without being manipulative, clever and utterly ruthless. Many Amenti 
have learned that the presence of a Bane mummy means terrible evil to follow. 
BANE MUMMY (APEPNU) 
Example Attributes: Assume all Banes to be 15 Traits or better in each 
category. 
Example Abilities: Five Journeyman, four Expert, three Master. Strongly 
recommended Abilities: Academics, Brawl, Melee, Performance, Intimidation, 
Linguistics, Occult, Subterfuge. Restricted Abilities: Computer, Drive. 
Powers: Two Hekau Paths at Advanced, two at Intermediate and one at 
Basic. Bane mummies’ twisted forms sometimes give them unique abilities; see 
descriptions of each individual mummy. 
Willpower: 10 
Corruption: 7-10 
AMAM THE DEVOURER 
In life Amam was a priest of Set, a corrupt man who amassed wealth and 
power through the vilest forms ofblackmail. Such was his reputation that, upon 
death, he was chosen to serve a master greater than his greed. Amam now serves 
as scout, retriever and assassin to Apophis. He has extremely acute senses of 
smell and hearing, but he is rather stupid and absent-minded. 
Amam’s body is that of a powerful, muscular man. At his face, though, all 
human resemblance vanishes. His jawbone and teeth are massive and malformed, 
distending his face into agrotesque maw. In addition to its size, Amam’s jaw can 
unhinge and distend like a snake’s, allowing him to swallow whole objects up 
to his own size (though it takes him an hour to digest something that size). In 
a combat scenario, Amam may attack with his bite as a weapon. To swallow an 
opponent whole, Amam must immobilize the target and succeed in three 
consecutive bite attacks; otherwise, his bite inflicts two lethal health levels 
with a successful challenge. If a victim is considered devoured, they may not be 
recovered in any way (healing, magical relocation) and are dead, for all intents 
and purposes. Amenti (and any other creature with this kind of miraculous 
“back from the dead” ability) may resurrect in the usual manner, however. 
HAU-HRA OF THE BACKWARD FACE 
Hau-hra was originally a clever scribe in the pharaoh‘s court who dabbled 
a little too much in forbidden knowledge, eventually joining the Cult of Set in 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


their sadistic rites. His position in the court allowed him to subtly corrupGhe 
religious orders of both Ra and Osiris, furthering the cause of Set with every 
priest’s head he filled. Of all the Bane mummies, Hau-hra was most faithful to 
Set, and so the recent conflict between Set and Apophis has left him unsure 
of where his true loyalties lie. To relieve the stress of his predicament, he has 
taken to kidnapping innocents and using his immensely flexible body to torture 
them in foul and obscene ways. 
Aptly named, Hau-hra’s face is on the back of his head, and his entire body 
is double-jointed, allowing him a full 180 degrees of motility; he is able to move 
backward or forward with spidery grace. This flexibility provides him with 
unbelievable athleticism, and the ability to quickly escape any physical bond. 
Despite his sadism and appearance, Hau-hra is still an intellectual, wry creature 
with a morbid sense of humor. He is more in touch with modem times than any 
of his brethren (save perhaps Tutu). 
HEMHEMTI THE ROARER 
In ancient Egypt, Hemhemti was the wealthiest, lewdest and most 
corpulent member of the merchant class. His roster of profanity included 
having his servants steal, prepare and serve the holy crocodiles of Sobek and 
the sacred cats of Bast as meals. In addition to these culinary sacrileges, he also 
sated his gruesome hunger for forbidden flesh with his own slaves. Upon death, 
Hemhemti was ushered into the ranks of the Children of Apophis, where he 
happily serves as both strategist and economist, being less physically adept than 
his brethren. Amam and Hemhemti, who obviously have many mutual 
interests, have contests to see who can stuff the most human delicacies into his 
gullet in the shortest amount of time. 
As in life, Hemhemti’s bloated porcine body still expels a foul brew of 
intestinal vapors; alive, these were an effect of his unusual dietary choices, but 
now it is an even more noxious miasma produced as his continually rotting 
body releases its byproducts. Hemhemti gleefully uses this disgusting endowment 
to his advantage when a facing an enemy. At will, he may belch forth a 
thundering cloud of this flatulence (the resonance of which spawned his 
nickname). If Hemhemti succeeds in a Physical Challenge against his target 
while using this ability (as it must hit them directly), his target becomes 
nauseated and suffers a two-Trait penalty in all challenges for the rest of the 
scene. 
KHAREBUTU THE FOURFOLD FIEND 
While alive, Kharebutu moved in the same delinquent circles as Tutu 
(now known as the Doubly Evil One). Although he was quite an accomplished 
outlaw, murdering and robbing with abandon, his infamy couldn’t match that 
of Tutu, who (much to Kharebutu’s chagrin) became known as the Prince of 
Tomb Robbers. This deep and bitter rivalry carried over even into the service 
of Apophis, and when Tutu gained the sobriquet “the Doubly Evil One,” 
Kharebutu insisted that ever after he should be known as the “Fourfold Fiend,” 
in an effort to make himself seem even more evil than the Doubly Evil One. 
Though none of his arcane abilities hold the number four in any significance, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


he Kas become eccentrically fixated upon it. He always incorporates it into his 
schemes and lifestyle. He might, for example, attempt to slay an enemy with 
four strikes, but refuse to finish an opponent who did not die after the fourth, 
or he might have four Reapers with him at all times. He believes this 
demonstrates his greater evil over the “weaker” twofold Tutu. 
In his obsession, Kharebutu developed a necromantic rite that allows him 
to graft the arms of corpses onto his torso and animate them, giving him four 
combat-effective limbs. These appendages enable him to add an extra four 
Traits to any physical action involving his arms or hands (consider him to be 
ambidextrous - 
he suffers no penalties for using an “off’ hand), and while 
Kharebutu suffers no damage if any harm is done to the ritually grafted limbs, 
they may be severed by an appropriate successful attack (the equivalent of two 
lethal health levels per arm). 
QETU THE EVIL DOER 
It is whispered that Qetu was once unmatched in outward charm and 
inward depravity. Acting as dancer and whore in the Pharaoh‘s court, she 
ruined many key officials with her planned temptations and subsequent 
scandals, all in service of Set. Now, Qetu acts as the femmefatak of the servants 
of Apophis, working upon the carnal weaknesses of her targets. She has been 
responsible for the demoralization of several mummies over the millennia. She 
delights in preying upon the Amenti’s newfound sensuality to divert them from 
the path of Ma’at. 
Qetu views seduction, especially of the Amenti, as a personal challenge to 
her abilities to become what it is her target desires most. To this end, she 
sometimes tries to affect an air of culture and gentility, but due to her base 
nature it never lasts - 
she invariably slips into the most vulgar language of 
whatever culture she’s currently infiltrating. Unlike most Bane mummies, 
Qetu seems beautiful at first glance; however, as with all Apepnu, the reality 
of her appearance is anything but. Qetu “wears” the necromantically animated 
skins of beautiful young women, and spends much of her free time browsing for 
her next “outfit.” Her true visage is that of a putrefying, corpselike hag. If this 
mask is discovered, Qetu whips off the skin and uses it like a cloak to distract 
and ensnare foes. When she is using her discarded skin as a distraction, all 
opponents wishing to strike her suffer a two-Trait penalty, and if she makes a 
successful Physical Challenge against a victim, she may ensnare them with the 
flayed skin. A victim thus ensnared must make a successful Simple Challenge 
to escape the “net” on their subsequent action. Qetu often uses the time that 
her opponent is immobilized to escape, and despite her apparent decay, Qetu 
retains much of the grace she had in life. 
SAATET-TA. DARKENER OF THE EARTH 
No records exist of Saatet-ta’s life before her transformation, and none 
seem to know why she was chosen for Set’sritual. While she is undoubtedly still 
a force to be reckoned with, Saatet-ta is the weakest of the Seven Faces of 
Apophis. She is treated as the whelp of the pack by her cruel and sadistic 
siblings, and, after repeated trips to Hell and the constant molestation of the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to comfort herself, Saatet-ta proclaims herself “Darkener of the Earth,” “Queen 
of a Thousand Ravening Locusts,” and/or “Ebon Horror of Khutu.” Saatet-ta 
was once a beautiful woman (a fact that contributed to her lunacy when she 
realized what she had become), but the ravages ofher rebirth stripped her of any 
beauty she once had. Her skin is blackened and cracked like a dry riverbed, and 
her sparse hair is coarse and gray. She has been known to use Hekau to veil her 
form in an imitation of her lost beauty, but no illusion can hide the mad gleam 
in her eyes. 
Saatet-ta’s Hekau paths are one level less than the other Bane mummies, 
and her form provides her no special abilities. While she may be outwardly the 
weakest of the Banes, there must be some hidden reason she was chosen to 
become a Child of Apophis, even if her madness clouds it now. 
TUTU THE DOUBLY EY IL ONE 
Tutu was a brave, ingenious and merciless tomb-robber. He chanced any 
curse or punishment to steal the riches from the dead pharaohs’ tombs, and he 
cleverly overcame evendifficult obstacles and traps. Although he was eventually 
captured and beheaded by the authorities, the priests of Set admired his brazen 
thievery and they resolved to steal his body. They sewed his head back on and 
performed the Rite of Rebirth, and now Tutu serves Apophis as warrior, thief 
and saboteur. Finding it advantageous to keep up with the times, Tutu suffers 
no Ability restriction concerning modern conventions. 
Tutu’s neck has been collared with a heavy golden cuff, which attaches his 
head to the spine from which it was severed. Tutu’s control over his khaibit is 
so strong that he can force his torso and head to separate, animating both his 
body and his head with evil intent. While his khaibit possesses his trunk, Tutu’s 
head and spine are free to slither around like a grotesque skeletal snake, each 
part able to function independently of the other. Tutu effectively doubles 
himself, becoming two distinct characters, each with full Traits and normal 
health levels. While his head-spine is more difficult to hit (gaining a two-Trait 
bonus to all uses of the Dodge Ability), it may take no actions requiring manual 
dexterity or manipulation. His body portion, on the other hand, suffers a two- 
Trait penalty to actions involving perception, as the khaibit can only “feel” out 
its surroundings. If either part of Tutu is destroyed, the other instantly expires 
as well, and his soul descends to Apophis for punishment. 
THE REAPERS 
Kharebutu, in his demented experimentation with human corpses, stumbled 
upon the secret of binding an evil ifrit into a cadaver, thus animating it in a 
limited version of the Rite of Rebirth. In this way, Reapers (also called Asekh- 
sen) were born. Reapers, while fully sentient, are used by the Bane mummies 
as shock troops, and are sent into simple or destructive situations that are too 
inconvenient or dangerous for the Bane mummy to deal with. Reapers are not 
magically talented, but they make up for this lack with sheer, unrelenting 
hatred. They are immediately identifiable as inhuman by their bloated 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


appearance, distorted expressions and the sickly-sweet stench that surrounds 
them as their meat slowly rots away. In Islamic lands, Reapers use the cultural 
practice of shrouding the body to hide themselves, often masquerading as 
veiled women in concealing traditional clothes, and standing in incense smoke 
or near garbage bins or charnel pits to cover their smell. 
Reapers are known as “Four Jars,” because Kharebutu’s spell allows them 
to beresurrectedonly four times (another example ofhisnumerical affectation). 
Each time an Asekh-sen rises, it must merge with a demonic spirit contained 
in one of the four canopic jars dedicated to it in the initial ritual. With every 
new possession by an ifrit, the corpse takes on even more of the mutations and 
deformities that come with the corruption of the flesh, until it is barely 
recognizable as once being human. If the Reaper dies a fifth time, it cannot rise 
again. The Asekh-sen’s time in Hell, between lives, is dictated by treating the 
number of jars the Reaper has left as the equivalent of its Ba Background rating. 
Of grim importance to the Amenti and the primary reason why reapers are 
such tenacious foes is that by placing the correct physical parts of a deceased 
mummy in one of its own repaired canopic jars, the reaper gains another chance 
at life, without further ifrit taint and decay. This chance to end the suffering 
of their continual decomposition, and to renew their existence permanently, 
drives reapers to prey on newly reborn Amenti while they are still disoriented. 
Reapers, for antagonist purposes, possess all the random Traits and 
Abilities of a beginning character, though Storytellers may wish to assign them 
more Bonus Traits if they need to be beefed up. Reapers take only half-damage 
from firearm or bashing attacks (unless it is a called shot to the head). Also, a 
Reaper within melee range of a target may vomit a choking cloud of ash upon 
a victim with a successful Physical Challenge, blinding the target for three 
combat turns while they clear the ash from their eyes (with all appropriate 
penalties for being blinded). 
THE AMKHAT 
The prohibition Osiris placed on the consumption of human flesh was no 
arbitrary decree. With the passage of millennia, however, the true reason for 
the law has been forgotten by all but those whose fanatical cannibal compulsions 
prompted it in the first place. 
The Amkhat (“corpse eater”) cultists have survived by blending seamlessly 
with society, some even gaining positions of power and prominence, and 
keeping their repellent activities hidden deep in the shadows. They are 
essentially normal humans, inasmuch as normal humans practice ritual 
cannibalism. When the Amkhat prepare a corpse properly, they can gain 
increased strength and a smattering of the victim’s memories, and so they 
become a little more than human with every victim they devour (though the 
gains from consuming humans disappear with time). This gain is not without 
concurrent risk, however. The gradual dementia and degeneration from those 
diseases common to cannibal cultures also plagues the Amkhat, which is a 
serious drawback when the benefits can be so temporary. It is for this reason, 
as well as the inherently supernatural essence of the Amenti, that mummies are 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


s preferred dish- the flesh of a mummy grants them extraord 
life spans, tremendous vitality and even access to ancient occult knowledge. 
Even better, those benefits never fade. 
The widespread Amkhat cult has become the foundation of Apophis’ 
followers, and they have insinuated their tendrils throughout the Islamic 
world, taking root in cities from Karachi to Istanbul. Followers come from the 
shantytowns, refugee camps and the palaces of the rich. They are drawn from 
the poor, homeless and hungry with nothing to lose, refugees burned out from 
the region’s constant warfare, and even would-be reformers who have grown 
frustrated in their efforts against the mullahs - 
in short, the fringe dwellers of 
society who are too tired or ruthless to care any longer about the moral 
ramifications of cannibalism and murder. The Amkhat are careful to conceal 
their activities and cover their tracks, so their vile acts go mostly unnoticed. 
They walk unnoticed in society, and indeed, some even attain great position 
(all the better to throw off suspicion). But in the shadows, their ritual orgies and 
murders, cruel tortures, consumption of hashish and hallucinogens all become 
devotions to Apophis (in his guise as Iblis) and the other devil-kings. 
Individually, or even in small groups, the Amkhat aren’t much of a 
physical force to threaten the Amenti - 
their danger is infinitely more subtle, 
and comes from the fact that they walk in all levels of society and thus have 
influence in the media, the police, the government and just about every social 
circle the Amenti might move in. Cultists rarely go toe-to-toe with a mummy 
in a flat-out physical assault. Instead, they prefer to attack the Amenti 
indirectly, through treachery, cunning and subterfuge. 
A typical cultist has normal human Traits, and Trait concentration/ 
Abilities are based on where that person moves in society (a diplomat would 
have high Social strengths, while a soldier would have high Physical strengths). 
Willpower: 2-5 
Corruption: 1-5 
AMKHAT POWER ANTHROPOPHAGI 
By ritually consuming a corpse (human or mummy), cultists may imbue 
themselves with a portion of their victim’s power and abilities. The degree of 
profit the cultist may gain from this consumption is dictated by their skill in 
Anthropophagi (meaning, “human eating”). 
These ratings are only guidelines; other body parts’ benefits may be 
extrapolated from these examples. An Amkhat’s level in Anthropophugi is equal 
to their Corruption rating, and they may gain the benefits of Anthropophugi up 
to and including their level, though they must choose one per victim (i.e., an 
Amkhat with a Corruption rating of 2 cannot consume both the hands and the 
eyes of one corpse, but he may choose either). The Storyteller is the arbiter on 
the specific boons gained; the Amkhat may not choose what Gifts they are 
given through the use of this power. 
After the corpse is devoured, the Amkhat must perform a Simple Test. 
Should she fail the test, she is immediately plunged into a bout of madness that 
lasts the rest of the scene (success or a tie has no ill effects). The Storyteller 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


chooses aderangement appropriate to the victimand assigns it to the unfortunate 
epicure. Powers acquired from a successful use of Anthropophgi last a number 
of months equal to the cultist’s permanent Willpower at the time of the 
consumption, unless it is the flesh of a mummy, in which case, they remain 
permanently. Mummies consumed in this way will be forever missing those 
parts of themselves, both physical and spiritual, until the Amkhat in question 
perishes. In addition to the benefits listed, an Amkhat who devours the flesh 
of an Amenti gains an additional 10 years to her life span per level of 
Anthropophagi used. 
1 
Eyes 
2 
Hands 
3 
Body 
4 Brain 
5 
Heart 
The cultist gains vague, fragmented shards of the victim’s 
memories (examples include relatives’ or friends’ names, 
passwords to security systems, phone numbers, etc.). 
The cultists gains one level of an Ability the victim 
possessed. 
The cultist gains one Physical Trait of the victim. 
The cultist gains one Mental Trait of the victim. 
The cultist gains one Social Trait of the victim. 
- 
Anthropophagi works on any human corpse, though the Amenti are the 
only Supernatural creature from which the Amkhat may gain increased 
longevity. Anthropophagi may be used as normal on mages, homid-breed 
shapeshifters and changelings (the dead flesh of vampires and Risen is the 
equivalent of eating ashes and shoe leather). Consuming the bodies of 
supernatural creatures other than mummies confers no special benefits, but at 
Storyteller discretion may bestow some unpleasant side-effects. 
VAMPIRES 
Vampires are, at best, beasts pretending to be humans; at worst, they are 
beasts who have accepted themselves as such. The undead, called ghuls, or 
ashirra by the Amenti, survive by drinking the blood of the living. Since 
vampires are little more than animated corpses, they find no gratification or 
sustenance in food or sex, though many go through the motions to cling to a 
semblance of humanity. Blood and survival are the coin of the vampires’ realm, 
and they will stop at nothing for either. A few vampires, particularly young 
ones, try to hang onto their consciences, but the hunger that drives them 
inevitably pushes them further from what it is that made them once human. 
Indeed, many vampires consider human society to be a kind of entertainment 
(a stageplay for them to direct as they wish), and they take great pleasure in 
using people as pawns in games of their own making to stave off the boredom 
of the centuries. 
While vampires possess supernatural abilities, myths and legends conflict 
on the full extent of their power. Vampires seem to become more powerful the 
longer they exist, with newly created vampires being barely stronger than 
mortals, and with the venerable ancients possessing truly legendary powers. 
Vampires are more fully described in Laws of the Night. If you do not have 
Laws of the Night on hand, for the purposes of Resurrection, assume the 
following: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A vampire uses Blood Traits to power its supernatural disciplineskd 
remain animate. The vampire acquires blood from mortals, most often through 
biting, which induces an unnatural pleasure in the victim. A Blood Trait can 
be used to activate a vampiric power, gain one Physical Trait for ascene, or heal 
levels of bashing or lethal damage. A pint of human blood equals one Blood 
Trait. Drinking a pint of Amenti blood grants the vampire two Blood Traits. 
Because vampires are essentially walking cadavers, bashing damage has 
little to no effect. Vampires can heal two levels of bashing damage with one 
Blood Trait, or one level of lethal damage. Vampires do not age and rarely suffer 
from non-magical disease or poison. Because of their static nature, if a vampire 
is scarred or cosmetically altered one evening, she automatically reverts to her 
former appearance when she rises next. 
A vampire usually has a small array of supernatural powers. These are the 
legendary powers, such as the strength of 10 men, command of animals, 
wolflike claws, the ability to cloud people's minds or control their emotions. 
Vampires with no Blood Traits cannot access their supernatural powers. Some 
vampires even have supernatural speed at their command, allowing them to 
take extra actions during combat. 
The teeth and claws of a vampire inflict aggravated damage. 
Vampires, no matter what age they might be, are subject to insane rages 
and wild passions, some moreso than others. If a vampire is threatened with 
something it fears or is denied blood when in a state of hunger, it must make 
a Mental Challenge; failure means it flies into a supernatural rage, and must 
either attack the source of its rage or flee. The vampire suffers no wound 
penalties during frenzy, but it cannot attack except by brawling. The frenzy 
ceases when the source of the vampire's fury is dead, removed, or the vampire 
can attempt Mental Challenges once per turn in an attempt to snap out of it. 
If a wooden stake pierces a vampire's heart, that vampire becomes 
instantly paralyzed. An attacker trying to stake a vampire must succeed in two 
Simple Tests after winning a Physical Challenge against the victim. If the 
staking is successful, the vampire cannot move or use his supernatural powers 
until the stake is removed. 
Vampires cannot function during the daytime. Daybreak causes an 
irresistible lethargy in the undead, and if one should be so unfortunate as to be 
caught outside, the sunlight ignites the vampire and she bums to cinders, 
taking one aggravated level of damage every turn she is exposed until final 
death. An immolated vampire must also test for frenzy. As a general rule, 
vampires sleep all day unless extreme emergencies arise. 
Vampires can emotionally enslave humans. If a vampire feeds a living 
human one Trait of its blood, on three separate nights, the human becomes an 
obsessively loyal servant. The vampire blood also gifts the human with a 
measure of the vampire's power; a ghul, as such slaves are called, may renew its 
Strength-based Physical Traits once per day at no cost. Ghuls do not age as long 
as they drink at least one Blood Trait of vampire blood once per month. 
Not every vampire retreats from the sight of a holy symbol, such as the 
Mogen David, the cross, the crescent, holy water or similar things, and most do 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


nocvampires do seem to have a fear of saintly people, whatever religion those 
people may be - 
one Amenti describes a holy imam driving a vampire from 
Damascus. Holy symbols in the hands of such people can inflict damage on a 
vampire as if they were made of sunlight. As such people are extremely rare, 
their preservation is considered a duty of Ma’at. 
YAMPIRIC FACTIONS 
The bloodsuckers plague the world over with cults and organizations of all 
kinds. Some even lair in the lands around the Web of Faith. 
FOLLOWERS OF SET 
These vampires are considered the Amenti’s deadliest foes, beyond the 
Children of Apophis. Unlike other vampires, most Setites do not engage in 
petty games of intrigue and one-upmanship. Instead, they are committed to 
snuffing out the flame of Ma’at to serve the will of their dark god. They claim 
to be the progeny of Osiris’ monstrous brother Set, and as such, they attempt 
to either rid the world of the Amenti or to corrupt them to his service. 
Setites usually congregate in areas of urban blight, in small broods where 
they may set up a temple. Once they used to work with Bane mummies, but 
lately they have apparently been at odds with them. The Setites may end one 
plot of the Apepnu, only to raise something equally loathesome in its place. 
The Amenti would dearly love to come up with some way to set both groups 
at each others’ throats as a whole. 
Setites are generally like other vampires, suffering the same weaknesses 
and enjoying the same strengths, with a few exceptions. Set’s progeny seem 
uncommonly fearful of the light, and many shrink even from brightly lit rooms. 
They also possess unusual powers whereby they can spend blood to assume 
aspects of Apophis himself, such as changing their own tongues into a serpent’s 
which can be used as a weapon, or to draw blood instead of via fangs. Some may 
change their skin into a serpent’s, granting them some resistance from damage. 
The most powerful can wholly transform themselves into 10-foot-long black 
cobras with a venomous bite and lashing coils. 
HASHASHIN 
There have long been rumors of cults of assassins, or “hashashin”, 
congregating in the lands around the Web of Faith. Now it seems those legends 
are true, and worse, the hashashin are vampires who take blood in payment for 
their murderous deeds. They will serve anyone who can pay their price, 
including Bane mummies, and they hunt the Amenti readily for their potent 
blood. The hashashin are known to be deadly fighters, and there is some 
question regarding who exactly leads and directs their actions. 
THE CAMARILLA 
The Shemsu-heru talk of a great cult of vampires whose influence spans 
the world, reaching into every stratum of society from the halls of power to the 
back alleys. It keeps spies everywhere -who knows who could be its eyes and 
ears? While the cult has gone by anumber of names, ‘Camarilla” is the one that 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


younger Amenti scoff at the notion of a worldwide vampiric conspiracy. 
Should this cult, this Camarilla, exist at all, it appears not to serve either 
Ma’at or Apophis, but this is not necessarily good news. Its members have been 
said to indulge in Machiavellian intrigues and vendettas against ancient 
enemies, plotting for the sake of nothing more than boredom. As an elephant 
can trample a mouse through blind indifference or intent, the Amenti feel the 
Camarilla is threat to Ma’at by its simple existence. 
Older Amenti warn their peers and juniors against revealing anything of 
themselves to vampires of the Camarilla, as the Followers of Set have been seen 
treading warily through some of the social strata. 
THE SABBAT 
The Amenti have heard little good about the Sabbat. Most tales describe 
them as a cult of insane, ravening vampires that is ruthless and fanatical in its 
desires. Rumor subscribes all manner of bizarre rituals to them, apparently in 
pursuit of some quasi-religious or military goal. They are known for repulsive 
cruelty and violence, making war on anything (human or supernatural) that 
crosses their path. In a bit of a good news for Amenti, there have been 
confirmed reports of the Sabbat battling the Followers of Set over territory, and 
perhaps doctrine - 
the Sabbat honor the vampire-god Caine, which would set 
them at odds with the Setites’ worship of Set. 
SORCERERS A N D  MAGI 
From the astrologers of Chaldea to the wizards of The Arabian Knights, 
practitioners of magic have long been the subject of stories across the Middle 
East. Often in their pursuit of mystical knowledge and artifacts, the Amenti 
cross paths (and swords) with others on similar sorcerous quests. Witches, 
wizards, astrologers, viziers - 
humans with the ability to work miracles have 
existed in every culture, and the interests of these magicians often overlap with 
those of the Amenti (in fact, sometimes the Amenti are the interest). While 
they may show amazing supernatural abilities, they are still human, and as such 
are protected by the Amenti in the spirit of Ma’at. It is whispered, however, that 
the diabolic agents of Apophis occasionally approach magicians with offers of 
great power, and it stands to reason that some accept.. .. 
There are two types of magicians the Amenti are likely to meet: sorcerers 
and magi. Sorcerers are humans with a limited understanding of magic, often 
basing their abilities on occult artifacts or arcane formulae passed down over 
the centuries. They are sometimes referred to as “hedge wizards,” and find the 
Amenti fascinating. Some of the rites and incantations used by modem 
sorcerers can be interpreted as diluted forms of traditional Hekau. Common 
spiritual powers include minor divination, protection and extra-sensory 
perception. See Laws of the Hunt for more information about such beings. 
The sorcerers known as the Taftani are occasionally encountered by 
Amenti in the Web of Faith, though their belligerent and violent natures make 
them ill companions for the servants of Ma’at. Taftani magic tends to be 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


offensive, flamboyant and to rely on the enslavement and control of spirits. For 
quick character creation, consider the Taftani to have the equivalent of one 
Hekau path at Intermediate, and three paths at Basic, with emphasis on the 
paths of Celestial, Nomenclature and Necromancy, and a Willpower of 9. (More 
about them may be found in Laws of the Ascension Companion and Lost 
Paths). 
Very little is known about the mysterious people who call themselves magi 
(or mages), except that they wield unpredictable magical power. Encounters 
with the enigmatic and subtly powerful wizards known as the Ahl-i-Batin have 
left the Amenti unsure what to believe, often withdifferent people remembering 
vastly different things about what happened. Some have said the Batini have 
done nothing but act in the best interests of their surroundings, while others 
speak of selfish acts that thankfully fall far short of the evil of the Bane 
mummies. Whatever their goals, the secretive Batini are firmly rooted in the 
Web of Faith, apparently caring as much about it as the mummies themselves 
do (some even believe that the Batini helped to create the Web, or at least they 
help'maintain it). Some argue, however, that the wizards do not openly ally 
themselves with the Amenti and Ma'at, and therefore their motives are 
suspect. Mummies who have traveled outside the Web of Faith have encountered 
mortals who seem to share some of the wizards' abilities, though even less is 
known about them or how they exactly differ from their Batini and sorcerer 
cousins. For a full description of mages and true magic, see Laws of Ascension 
andLost Paths. The Ahl-i-Batin specialize in Correspondence andMind magic. 
As magi can have vastly different levels of Traits and Abilities, no core 
guideline is listed here. For a quick Ahl-i-Batin character creation, however, 
use the sorcerer template with the equivalent Hekau emphasis being placed on 
the paths of Nomenclature, Amulets and Alchemy. 
Ghosts are real - 
at least in the World of Darkness. The Amenti are 
intimately aware of this, as not only were they retrieved from the spirit lands 
themselves, but they travel the Underworld on a regular basis. Conversing with 
the bizarre djinn of the shifting sands and with the angry ghosts of a war-torn 
country, mummies are capable of seeing and interacting with the denizens of 
the ethereal lands just out of normal mortal sight, often being the only eyes and 
ears these creatures can appeal to with any efficacy. But likewise, so must the 
Amenti be wary of the evil ifrit, the angry Bane-spirits which some wraiths call 
Spectres; some of the ifrit serve Apophis and want only the world's destruction. 
Ghosts are those unfortunates who have died with a great desire left 
unfulfilled, deeds undone that are too important to forget, or those unwilling 
(or too stubborn) to die. They are tied to places, things and people that were 
important to them in life, but because of the storms that now howl through the 
Underworld, they tend to huddle in places that are rich with death and decay, 
such as cemeteries and abandoned houses, for these places can provide shelter 
from the storm. 
More information about wraiths can be found in Oblivion. For the 
purposes of Resurrection, consider the following: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


without effort, and they are immune to most physical attacks. Most mortals 
(and some Amenti) cannot perceive wraiths through normal means. Wraiths 
can move through most material barriers without hindrance, and even move 
in any direction through three-dimensional space. Some ghosts speak of a 
barrier between the living and spirit worlds, which they call the Shroud. 
Wraiths’ power springs from the emotional strength and significance of 
memories. Wraiths are drawn to events, people and places that somehow 
reflect their strongest passions, and they gain energy, or Pathos, from 
“experiencing” them in proximity. As creatures of raw emotion, they do not 
have physical bodies; for purposes of stats, their health levels are equal to the 
amount of Willpower they possess. 
Wraiths can perform a variety of tricks in the mortal world, running the 
gamut of ghost story repertoire, from inhabiting machinery to causing walls to 
drip blood to full possession of a human or animal. Such efforts cost at least one 
Pathos to create, and may last for as many turns as the wraith has Willpower. 
Gremlin - 
Some ghosts can nullify or destroy electronic and mechanical 
devices by inserting themselves into the very machinery. They may send a jolt 
of electricity to short-out a device, or unlatch the safety of a gun, or even read 
data from a computer. If the ghost wishes to destroy the device, he can inflict 
as many levels of lethal damage as he has Willpower and he spends two Pathos. 
It costs nothing to step into machinery. For a Pathos, a ghost may even ride a 
telephone or electrical wire from one area to another. 
Poltergeist - 
The ghost can perform the classic tricks of a poltergeist, 
such as throwing objects around a room, striking objects or living things, 
creating strange or inexplicable noises and smells, causing walls to drip with 
blood or slime and so on. The oldest ghosts can set entire rooms of objects 
moving, throw furniture across a room or even upend cars. Such tricks require 
Willpower to be spent (to push into the living world), and they last for one turn 
per Willpower Trait spent. 
Possession - 
The ghost can attempt to possess a mortal or supernatural 
creature, gaining access to his target’s motor capabilities. The ghost spends a 
Willpower Trait, and ghost and target go to a Willpower Challenge. This 
power is commonly used by Bane-spirits and Spectres. 
Combustion - By spending Willpower and one to three turns in 
concentration, a ghost can set inanimate objects on fire. The amount of 
Willpower spent depends on what the ghost wishes to engulf - 
paper costs 
nothing, cloth requires only one Willpower, wood needs two, flame-retardant 
fabrics need three, and hard plastic requires four Willpower. 
Emotion Control - 
The ghost with this power can inspire feelings in 
nearby targets, such as lust, fear, love or joy. The ghost must spend a Willpower 
Trait and make a Willpower Challenge with the target. Some ghosts like to sing 
appropriate songs to instill the emotion, after the manner of banshees. 
Wraiths can only be truly destroyed with aggravated damage. All other 
attacks just result in the ghost being banished for a short period of time. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Ghostscan materialize in the lands of the living by spending a Willpower 
Trait. They can use their powers in the same way. While some ghosts can 
change their appearances, most usually appear as frightening images and the 
effects of the Veil apply. 
Wraiths have Traits and health levels just as every other character does, 
although they usually can’t use their Physical Traits, except against each other 
or against other beings in their lands. A wraith suffers no Trait penalty for 
injury, and it can heal one level of non-aggravated damage with one Pathos 
Trait. 
While few humans can sense or interact with ghosts, they may still be 
affected by them; to the Amenti, the spirits of the afterlife interfering in such 
a way with those still living is in defiance of the natural order of Ma’at and must 
be prevented. Because of this, it is often in the Amenti’s best interests to find 
a way to either reason with the spirit, or find a way to keep it where it belongs 
- 
in the spirit lands. 
Other spirits touch the Amenti as well, but these spirits have never known 
a natural, “living” existence. The elementals are spirits of the very sands and 
waters, of the sandstorms and desert winds, most often found in places directly 
touched by the Web of Faith. The evil servants of Apophis, the ifrit are 
malevolent creatures devoted wholly to the destruction of Ma’at and the 
corruption of the mortal world. Generally, only mortals gifted with special sight 
can perceive these creatures. Even the mummies do not fully understand them. 
While the ifrit are occasionally found possessing the bodies of mortals or 
running errands for their foul masters, most of these spirits occupy remote 
locations and must be found by an Amenti seeking knowledge or information. 
THE WALKING DEAD 
By their own natures, the Amenti are aware that it’s possible toretum from 
the Underworld. Their trips to the Underworld recently in the wake of the 
ghost storm have revealed that a number of ghosts have returned to the living 
world (whether purposefully or accidentally) and these ghosts now inhabit 
corpses and walk as the living dead. Not a few of these strange ones carry 
business from their pasts with them, some of which conflicts with Ma’at, 
resulting in conflicts for the Amenti. 
The hidden is a walking dead that can manage to pass itself off as a living 
human. Generally the only things that might give a hidden away are his pallor, 
some social ineptitude (particularly regarding modernities) and his aura. 
Otherwise there is nothing overtly monstrous about them. They are highly 
independent and quite motivated - 
enough to deal with any threat that gets 
between them and their business. Most hidden have 12 Physical Traits, five 
Social Traits, 10 Mental Traits and at least eight Willpower. Their Abilities 
can range across the board. The hidden have 15 health levels before being 
destroyed and can heal by expending Willpower. 
The walkers seem driven to fulfill a specific purpose or mission that drags 
them from their graves and rest until it is complete. One might stalk the 
terrorists that killed him, while another might be driven to protect its lover or 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


children at any cost. Once the mission is complete, the body generally crumbles 
and the spirit returns to the Underworld. Walkers’ bodies continue to decay, 
but most disguise themselves with clothing and perfume, and can pass as human 
with a little effort. Many often bear the wounds that killed them. Generally 
they are not interested in conflict with others, unless someone gets between 
them and their mission. Assume walkers to have nine Physical Traits, four 
Social Traits, and seven Mental Traits. They usually carry the Abilities they 
had in life, suchas Athletics, Brawl, Dodge, Intimidation, Screetwise andSubterjuge. 
They can sustain 10 health levels of damage before being destroyed, and they 
suffer no wound penalties. They can regenerate lost health levels by spending 
Willpower Traits on a one-per-one basis. Walkers have at least eight Willpower 
Traits. 
The shamblers are nothing less than vile, typical of the walking dead that 
most mortals have seen in George Romero movies - 
shuffling, fluid-spewing, 
putrescent corpses that should not be out of the ground. They seem to have 
little sentience beyond aneed to hunt and devour the organsof the living. They 
can sustain 10 health levels of damage before collapsing into ruin, and they 
suffer no wound penalties. Decapitation or complete destruction of the body 
(such as by fire) will kill them (again). Assume them to have eight Physical 
Traits, no Social Traits and one or two Mental Traits, plus Brawl x 2, 
Intimidation x 2, and five Willpower Traits. 
THE CHANGING BREEDS 
Shapeshifters are exactly what their name implies: creatures with the 
ability to alter their physical shape between human and animal, and odd bestial 
things in-between. They appear to have their own culture, and a blending of 
their human and animal social needs. Many of them coexist with humans and 
animals, having relatives among them both. Changing Breeds, whether they 
be mammal, avian, reptile or insect, revere the forces of nature, and elemental 
and nature spirits communicate with them frequently (usually favorably). 
The most infamous shapeshifter is, of course, the werewolf, but there are 
many other breeds as well. They all have several different forms available to 
them, they all have powers that mimic those of nature spirits, and they all have 
phenomenal combat capabilities. 
The shapeshifters who skulk in the regions near the Web of Faith are some 
of the most bizarre of the Changing Breeds in form and motivation, and they 
pose a unique problem for the Amenti. While they obviously wield great 
spiritual puissance (seeming to walk between the worlds as easily as any 
mummy), they are also savage, barbaric and unpredictable. Appropriately, 
most mummies seek a balance with the shifters, observing instead of opposing 
or aiding - 
at least until they have more information about what it is the 
shifters truly desire. 
The most frequently encountered changing breed of the Web of Faith are 
the Silent Striders, who would seem to be somehow related to mighty Anubis, 
for they often take the forms of enormous jackals when they prowl at the 
borders of the Web of Faith but they rarely venture in. While their mostly 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


inoffensive behavior seems to suggest that they are more closely tied to Ma'at 
than some of their more obviously warlike brethren, they are so secretive it's 
impossible for the Amenti to know for sure. While they usually travel alone, 
the Striders are also found in packs of two to five. They seem to gather at places 
of great importance, for no discernible purpose, and a few Amenti (usually 
repeating tales heard from others) claim that the Silent Striders have beenseen 
in h a t .  
In the heart of Egypt, it is rumored that the temples of worship devoted to 
the goddess Bast once housed more than mere statues. Tales of odd, regal, cat- 
headed beings wise in the ways of magic circulate even now among the local 
people, but whether these werecats serve Ma'at or Apophis is a matter of which 
version of the stories you hear. Like all cats, the Bubasti are content to remain 
enigmas, and the few Amenti encounters with them have not made things 
clearer. 
The desert is cradle to many serpents; some (like the Followers of Set) are 
guaranteed to be poisonous to the Amenti, but what of the living snake-people 
who have been seen darting into ancient temples or hidden caverns? Because 
of the Setites' ability to transform themselves into serpents, all who share this 
ability become suspect. So long as the cobra-folk's motives remain a mystery, 
the Amenti are forced to bide their time and watch for a clearer sign of their 
loyalty. 
Along the banks of the Nile, mighty Sobek's sacred crocodiles still swim, 
but there are whispers that some of the god's followers are more than mere 
crocodilians. Tales of living dinosaurs occasionally filter up from Africa's 
interior, and strange tracks found in the mud of the riverbanks arouse fearful 
curiosity. For now, the Amenti wisely avoid angering Sobek's children, until 
they learn more of them. 
For more information about the shapeshifters, see Laws of the Wild and 
the Changing Breeds books. For the purposes of Resurrection, you can assume 
the following: 
A shapeshifter has three forms: a human, a normal animal and a hybrid 
battle form. In battle form, the shifter doubles its normal human Physical 
Traits, and when it strikes with claws or teeth, it can inflict aggravated damage. 
In animal form, the shifter has amazing, superhuman senses and all the physical 
capabilities of that animal - 
a cat would be able to see in dim light, a serpent 
would be able to slither into a crevice to escape or bestow a poisonous bite - 
but it can only inflict lethal damage. In its battle form, the shifter causes normal 
humans to lose their senses with fear, as per the Veil. Most times, humans will 
block the encounter from their minds or find rational explanations for what 
they saw. 
Shapeshifters heal rapidly; they can repair one non-aggravated wound 
level every turn. 
Legends claim that shapeshifters are vulnerable to certain materials such 
as silver, gold, cold iron or salt. A blow from a weapon forged from or crusted 
with the material can inflict aggravated damage on such a creature, provided 
the material used is in fact the bane of that type of shapeshifter. Silver is 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


considered the most common, but the Amenti who know of the shapeshifters 
know enough that such assumptions can be dangerous. 
A shapeshifter can move quickly enough to perform two attacks per 
combat round. 
When provoked or threatened, shapeshifters can fly into murderous 
rages. Treat these no differently than a vampire’s frenzy. 
They can utilize various spiritual abilities, or Gifts, to perform supernatural 
feats. The shifters’ spiritual wisdom, called Gnosis, is what they draw upon to 
use their powers. Young shifters may have one to three GnosisTraits, and older, 
more powerful shifters may have up to 10. Gnosis can be gathered at places of 
great spiritual intensity, such as where the Web of Faith touches the land. 
Shapeshifters can physically step into the spirit lands by spending a turn 
peering into a reflective surface. They can look back out into the “real world” 
by concentrating, and they may step out of any reflective surface back to the 
physical plane. They suffer no ill effects from the spirit storm. 
OTHER REBORN 
The Amenti are not the only riders of the everlasting circuit between life 
and death. Mummies have existed in various forms long before the Sphinx 
came into being. Some, like the Cabiri and Ishmaelites, are well-known to the 
followers of Osiris, but the provenance of others is almost completely unknown 
even now. 
Each of the different types listed here may be created as any other mummy 
character, although they may need to be tweaked at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
All of these Reborn, with the exception of the Imkhu, are known as the 
Shuankhsen, or ‘‘The Lifeless.” Their resurrection is flawed in some way, and 
their connection to the life-force that sustains them is weaker. The Shuankhsen 
cannot bear or sire children, and if one is ever wounded down to the 
Incapacitated health level, he must succeed in a Simple Test or die. 
IMHKU 
Once, the Followers of Horus - 
the Shemsu-heru - 
numbered 42, one 
for each of the Judges of Ma’at. Now with their forces and numbers ravaged, 
they can count only 13 among their ranks, including Horus himself. Those 13, 
however, having ritually taken their own lives on Osiris’ direct orders, have 
been imbued with the awesome power and knowledge given with the complete 
version of the Spell of Life, and they can be found acting as guides and teachers 
for the younger Amenti. The Imkhu are wise and devoted servants of Ma’at, 
and their presence in a chronicle should reflect the weight of their great role 
in the mummies’ fight against Apophis. The Imkhu never interfere in anything 
but for grave or portentous reasons. 
CABIN 
These Greek mummies, named after the alchemist who found the Spell of 
Life and translated it (albeit incorrectly), have largely disappeared. A few 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


supposedly remain around the Mediterranean islands. But as they shun the 
Amenti, even reacting with outright violence to them, it's unclear what their 
goals are. They have a strong self-preservation instinct, probably because their 
only hope at survival is to avoid coming before the Judges of Ma'at in the 
afterlife, and they are unlikely to expose themselves to danger for anything but 
pure self-interest. 
ISHMAELITES 
When Osiris bade his son Horus and the Shemsu-heru to ritually sacrifice 
themselves, some of those priests refused. The first to leave the group was 
named Ishmael, and so all others that followed became known as the Ishmaelites. 
Their resurrection is based on an imperfect version of the Spell oflife, and their 
willful disobedience of Ma'at has condemned them to forever skirt the eyes of 
her Judges lest they be found wanting. Still, despite their prodigal nature, the 
remaining Ishmaelites are old and knowledgeable, and the Judges of Ma'at have 
even suggested that the Amenti would do well to seek some of their arcane 
knowledge, lest it be lost forever. The Ishmaelites are unlikely to reveal 
themselves casually, however, especially in light of the millstone of shame that 
their cowardice has forever hung around their necks, and the hostility the 
Amenti have often shown them. 
CAPACOCHA 
Long before the pyramids rose from the sands, the peoples of Tawantinsuyu 
(western South America) sent their beloved dead into a cycle of rebirth, much 
as the Egyptians would. What are considered to be the first examples of 
deliberate mummification came from what is today Chile, where the Children 
of the Seal (called the Chinchorro by archaeologists) once lived. They hunted 
sea-mammals and fished, and their lives were filled with ceremony. 
Before 5050 BCE, amawtas (will-workers) of the Chinchorro stuffed their 
revered dead with herbs and grasses, packed them in raw (unfired) clay, and 
then sculpted a detailed new body, complete with facial features and genitalia, 
over the decaying one. The bodies then were dried under the sun (as it never 
rained in the desert) and the awawtas chanted the spell of Going Westward to 
the Sunrise over them, preparing the mummy for Rebirth. These mud- 
mummies were called Pachamallki, and they returned to the living at intervals, 
lying stiff and still until called on by the amawtas to aid their descendants. 
When they returned to life, they told tales of their new lives beyond the grave, 
and exhibited strange powers to which no others had access. While not in the 
living world, the illi (spirit) of the mummy traveled the Realm of Pacarina 
(called the Dark Kingdom of Obsidian by later ghosts). 
The Children of the Seal continued this way of life for over 3000 years, 
aided and accompanied by the relatives they had made immortal. As their 
culture spread and changed with the coming of corn and potatoes, the amawtas 
instructed the nearby people, the Chimu, to carry on their tradition. The 
Chimu, a nation of farmers and fishermen on the shores of the Great Sea, did 
as they were instructed, awe-struck by the powers the mummies wielded. The 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


were dried, wrapped in cloth, and given masks and artificial heads to make 
them strong and wise. Like the Children of the Seal, the Chimu brought forth 
the Intimallki on holy days, introducing each new generation to the living dead 
who protected them, and “feeding” the Intimallki with offerings. 
The rise of Mayan and Teotihuacano cultures led to trade and contact 
with the Children of the Seal and the Chimu. Some mallki even attempted to 
remain with the new tribes permanently, enthralled by the wisdom and 
sophistication of the Maya even as they were repulsed by the penchant for ritual 
sacrifice and torture. When the Incan Empire firmly established itself, it 
brought together under one rule the peoples of the desert, the jungle, the sea 
and the mountains, and became known as Tawantinsuyu, or the Land of the 
Four Quarters. Naturally, this conjoining spread the arcane knowledge of the 
mallki to everyone in the Inca nation. 
The jungle peoples of the Amazon created Uchumallki (fire mummies) 
which were smoked and rubbed with preservative balms. They were called to 
life just as the other mallki, and their command over fire and smoke made them 
valuable guardians in the rainforest. The Incas also created mummies, and in 
keeping with the ritual, the mightiest of their leaders were “sent westward.” 
These Inca mummies were the Chaskimallki (messenger mummies). They 
wore gold masks and were housed in ceremonial buildings befitting their 
station, many of them sent westward in sacrifice as youths, so that neither age 
nor misfortune could rob them of their vigor. These were chosen to atone for 
the “royal sin” or capacocha, which has since become the name for all mallki. 
Over time, the tradition of the Capacocha grew forgotten and neglected, 
and when the Spanish invaded in 1529, the frantic summonings of the people 
met with little success. Many of the mallki had lain in slumber for so long they 
could not be awakened. Those few mummies who rose to the task were quickly 
felled by the conquering Spanish, and it seemed for a time that the secret of 
creating mallki was lost. 
Of late, the turbulence of the Dja-akh has roused the illi from their 
centuries-long slumber, and they have now remembered their duty to protect 
their descendants. The spirits of the mallki struggled to return to life to discover 
that the ritual of Going Westward did not make them as completely immortal 
as previously thought. Their spirits lived on, but they lacked the strength to 
animate bodies that had all but dissolved by the ravages of time and neglect. 
Apparently, being periodically roused by their living relatives was vital to 
keeping the preserving magic fresh. The Capacocha had to find new amawtas 
to restore their crumbling bodies and return them to life. 
There were a few scattered descendants and relatives of holy men and 
women still living in western South America, and these few, through dream or 
spirit-talk, became aware of the illi and their wishes. These mortals moved 
swiftly and quietly to recover what of their ancestors they could - 
that which 
was not destroyed by time or snatched by well-meaning archaeologists. Over 
time and with increasing skill, they managed to rebuild the bodies of their 
mallki, and recovered just enough of the Ritual of Going Westward to call the 
illi forth to inhabit them once again. The spell was incomplete, however, and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


thelife attained (while vital and powerful) was a sterile and ageless semblance 
of life. 
It’s important to note that the Capacocha are single-spirit entities, and 
thus have little practical experience with the modem world. As well, all 
Capacocha speak their own native tongue, but may be unable to speak 
anything else. 
THE FOUR SUYU OF THE CAPACOCHA 
The South American immortals are divided into four suyu, or quarters, to 
symbolize the four Sacred Things that created them. The four suyu are often 
rivals, but rarely enemies, and each has a purpose (and liability) much like the 
Amenti. 
CHASKIMALLKI 
The Chaskimallki were Inca messengers to the gods, chosen to die nobly 
in sacrificial rituals. They received special royal treatment to induce them to 
speak kindly of the priests who sent them to the afterlife. 
Strength: The Chaskimallki returns to life completely restored to health 
as long as the body is kept frozen, or in ice-cold water, to preserve it. 
Liability: The Chaskimallki cannot return to life if its body rots during a 
death cycle; it must be kept frozen in order to return. The few alive today have 
made arrangements to be frozen when they die or even use chemical means to 
preserve their bodies. 
INTIMALLKI 
Intimallki are primarily from the Moche, Chimu or Inca nations, and are 
desert mummies that have been wrapped in huge swaths of cloth, usually with 
masks or false heads attached. The corpse retains its internal organs. These 
mummies were made before 1530 CE. 
Strength: These mummies never thirst or suffer from dehydration. If one 
is kept from water long enough, it shrivels into a living but desiccated form. 
Liability: The Intimallki are vulnerable to steel. It causes aggravated 
damage whether the mallki is living or dead. The Intimallki have so far 
managed to keep this a secret only known to themselves. 
PACHAMALLKI 
The mummies of earth had their corpses eviscerated and then stuffed with 
grasses and herbs, reinforced with native cane, and packed in red or black clay. 
All known Pachamallki were created between 5050 and 1720 BCE. No one 
knows how many remain able to return to life. 
Strength: A Pachamallki can repair its body by plastering itself with clay. 
Each turn, an earth mummy with access to suitable muddy material (Storyteller’s 
discretion) can repair one health level of damage to itself. 
Liability: When a Pachamallki is dead, its corpse dissolves if immersed in 
running water. While living, it is not vulnerable to water. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


UCHUMALLKI 
The mummies of fire and smoke were born from the jungles of the equator. 
They were gutted and smoked over fires of scented wood to preserve them. 
They lived their first lives before 1770 BCE. 
Strength: Uchumallki have a limited immunity to fire and heat. Only the 
direct application of flame causes any damage, and it is lethal instead of 
aggravated. 
Liability: An Uchumallki can be slain with cold. When its body is exposed 
to temperature below freezing, it suffers one level of aggravated damage each 
hour. When dead, the body of the Uchumallki does not suffer this damage. 
CAPACOCHA CHARACTER CREATION 
The Capacocha are generally created the same as Amenti, witha few extra 
bells and whistles related to their particular cultures. 
ABILITIES 
Expression: Kipu 
Kipus (or qipus) are a series of “spirit knots” that can transfer memories and 
information. With this Ability, you can create records and read those left 
behind. 
Linguistics 
The languages of the ancient peoples are not lost to you. The most 
common tongue among Andean mummies and many regional spirits is the 
Tongue of the Seal, the language of the Chinchorro people of ancient Chile. 
CAPACOCHA BACKGROUNDS 
Most Backgrounds remain the same as those for Amenti, with only 
Ayllu 
This is a mummy’s clan, and represents how much of its living bloodline 
has survived to the present. An Ay IIu is called on to perform sacrifices, defend 
the mummy’s corpse, or summon the mummy to life. The Ayllu is a shared 
heritage specific to the region of the mummy, kept alive by a specific localized 
group, and ranges anywhere from a few loyal survivors telling tales to children, 
to a few devoted elders who perform rituals to you, to an entire village who 
whispers your name reverently. At its highest level, you may be fortunate 
enough to have an amatwa hedge wizard who performs sacrifices for you. 
Consider this a mix of the Legacy and Retainers Backgrounds. 
cultural variations on them. 
Illi 
Translated, “the gleaming.” Functions the same as the Ka Background. 
Samapa 
The “breath” or physical life. Functions the same as the Ba Background. 
WAKA 
Waka is the spiritual energy the Capacocha call upon to perform their 
rites. It functions the same as Sekhem, but is a distinct energy all of its own. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SACRIFICE 
The illi can “eat” the spiritual energy released by human and animal 
sacrifices and gain strength from it. Each sacrifice provides a number of points 
equal to the victim’s Willpower, which may either be allocated in any way to 
the Capacocha’s Waka or Willpower, or into healing the mummy’s physical 
form. This is not considered a pleasant practice in modem times. 
ONE SOUL 
Unlike Amenti, the Capacocha are single-spirit entities. There is no 
fusing of lives and spirits for them. Those chosen to Go Westward were usually 
rulers, religious figures, sages and artists, and the selection was made by the 
people or (more rarely) the gods. Commoners must distinguish themselves 
spectacularly in order to receive the honor. Due to the practice of sacrificing 
the young, some Capacocha are children, but they return with full Attributes 
because they have adult souls. Some eventually age enough to reach physical 
adulthood. Because of the immense gap between their original lives and 
modern times, they receive the Background Memory x 5 (to reflect their very 
clear memories of their lives) and the Flaw: Anachronism. 
RESURRECTION 
A mallki must be summoned back to life by his descendants or followers 
when his spirit is ready (as per him Samapa rating). A Capacocha’s original 
physical body is also key to rising again - 
it must be returned to the place of 
burial from his First Life before rising can take place. 
CAPACOCHAN HEKAU 
The Capacocha may use all Hekau the Egyptian mummies may, but the 
following rites are known only to the Capacocha. Capacochan Hekau requires 
time and challenges relative to those found in Amenti Hekau; see Chapter Four 
for more information. 
ALCHEMY 
Basic 
Humpu 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Waka: Special 
This ritual allows the alchemist to create a mixture of road sweeping, 
shaved horn and rosemary which, when burned, restores Traits lost in the 
course of a challenge. Each Trait of Waka the alchemist spends on creating the 
Humpu will restore one Mental, Social or Physical Trait lost to injury or illness, 
but this may only be done once per day. Retest with Medicine. 
Intermediate 
Hurtloam 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


'l'ype: Kitual 
Difficulty: 6 
Waka: Special 
This ritual allows any damage to a Pachamallki to be healed when mud is 
shaped to cover the injury (this only works with mud mummies). One level of 
damage is healed for each Waka spent. This works only on a Pachamallki's 
physical form. Retest with Medicine. 
Advanced 
Rose of Ayacucho 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Waka: 10 
The Rose of Ayacucho is a powerful potion used by desert mummies to 
destroy their enemies, or protect their friends from harm. Any person who 
drinks the mixture suffers one level of bashing damage per hour from dehydration 
until dead. When dead, the corpse remains indefinitely perfectly preserved. 
Once water is poured on the corpse, the target is returned to Incapacitated and 
begins healing the lost health levels normally. This potion does not protect the 
corpse against damage, and if any further health levels of damage are sustained, 
the subject dies permanently. Retest with Thanatology. 
AMULETS 
Basic 
Bundle 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Waka: 10 
This ritual encloses the corpse of the mummy, as well as various other 
amulets, treasures, etc. in yards of hand-woven cloth. When finished, the 
bundle lasts for one century per permanent Willpower the caster possesses at 
the time of casting. The bundle protects from all normal damage, and may 
absorb five health levels of aggravated damage before being destroyed. The 
bundle may be unwrapped by mundane means, but the mummy's spirit will feel 
the exposure no matter where it is in the universe. Retest with Occult. 
Mask 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Waka: 6 
This ritual conjures a mask of gold, silver or precious shell that forms a face 
for the mummy, and allows it to see through its corporeal eyes at any time, no 
matter where its spirit is. By spending one Waka, the mummy may speak 
through this mask for one scene. For Capacocha with living relatives, this mask 
is a useful tool for communication. Retest with Awareness. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SACRIFICE 
This Hekau is a darker variation of Necromancy, and will draw a lot of 
negative attention to the practitioner. Everyone but a traditional native of the 
religion will likely find the practice disgusting, and probably contrary to some 
of the principles of Ma’at. 
Basic 
Challa 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 5 
Waka: None 
This is a sacrifice of alcohol. The celebrant must drink huge quantities of 
liquor, spitting and spraying it over the spiritual icon that is the object of the 
ritual. For each health level of bashing damage the celebrant incurs from the 
toxins in the liquor, one Trait of Waka is gained. Retest with Awareness. 
Kuchu Pacha 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 4 
Waka: None 
This self-mutilation ritual lets the caster gain spiritual energy by slicing 
and piercing her own body. The lips, tongue, genitals or other soft tissues are 
cut or skewered, and the blood is allowed to soak into specially prepared bark 
paper or cloth. Every two levels of bashing damage or one level of lethal damage 
suffered provides one Trait of Waka. Every level of aggravated damage suffered 
provides two Traits of Waka. The Waka gained may exceed the Capacocha’s 
normal maximum. Retest with Medicine. 
Puka Lampu 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Waka: Special 
This ritual method of curing disease involves rubbing a puppy or guinea pig 
on the afflicted area, then sacrificing the animal and examining its heart. Stains 
on the heart demonstrate illness, and the sympathetically afflicted area is 
covered with medicinal clay. Each Trait of Waka spent heals one health level 
of any type; it works on either the caster or a target. Retest with Occult. 
Intermediate 
Chaqui 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Waka: 5 
A Chaqui (“ambassador”) is a ghostly servant created by this ritual. A 
sacrificial victim is slain while the caster chants sacred songs, and the rising 
spirit is bound to serve the ritualist. The effects are equivalent to Bind the Living 
(Intermediate Hekau Necromncy). The same ritual used to wipe out sin is 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


cha” (“royal sin”) Depending on the circumstances and-the 
victim, a mummy could lose Balance for casting this ritual. Retest withoccult. 
Luqla 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Waka: 2 
With the sacrifice of animals and/or humans, the caster of this ritual calls 
forth a flood. The total permanent Willpower Traits of all the victims slain in 
this ritual (most animals usually have one) dictates the amount of rain that will 
fall in inches. Five inches is a downpour, 10 is a tremendous flood. Retest with 
Occult. 
Advanced 
Way0 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Waka: 10 
This is a human sacrifice rite that creates a mask made of the victim’s facial 
skin. When worn, the mask allows the practitioner to call upon some of the 
powers of the slain victim. The caster may allocate himself all Attribute Traits 
or Abilities of the victim above and beyond those he already possesses, to the 
mummy’s maximum, for one scene. The mask may be used once per day, for up 
to six months after the sacrifice at a cost of one Waka per employment, at which 
point it loses its magical potency. Retest with Occult. 
THE EOMALLKI 
Over the years, the mallki have found their dormant bodies to be far too 
fragile to allow them the kind of immortality the Egyptians enjoy. Changes to 
the landscape and climate - 
coupled with human interference - 
present a 
host of dangers. Despite all efforts to get around the problem of the destruction 
of the orignal body, none allow the mallki to live as before. As their human cults 
were scattered and their bodies destroyed, the mallki lost hope that they could 
ever return to the Living Lands. But recently, things began to change. 
Years of diligent research by a few rare amawtas garnered rumors of the 
Amenti, which was supplemented by illi sojourning in the Underworld. The 
amawtas believed that they might be able to perform a ritual similar to the Spell 
of Life, one which would use the ritual of Going Westward as a base and fuse 
illi with the spirits of those strongly tied to the living world. The only other 
choices would be to use the Egyptian spell or to succumb to death - 
neither 
was an option for the proud spirits of the Andes. It would be incomplete, but 
many saw it as their only choice. The result was the Teomallki. 
These new mummies have been seen prowling the Andean highlands or 
lurking in the slums and barrios of La Paz and some of South America’s greatest 
cities. They do not have the compelling force of Ma’at to guide them, and most 
are primarily led by the illi’s goals. Survival becomes a frequent goal. Some 
Teomallki feel they’ve been forced into their new roles (much like the Udja- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. __ 
.. 
sen). Only time will tell if the Amenti encounter these new immortals and join 
with them as compatriots of Ma’at, or if the Teomallki are a new sort of Bane 
mummy that revels in the gore of sacrifice. 
Teomallki characters create no differently than Amenti - 
a newly 
deceased meets with an ancient soul that offers a return to life. The body 
becomes animated and takes the two souls where they can find the completing 
magic. Instead of the old illi (like an Amenti tem-akh) replacing a small part 
of the hosting spirit, the two spirits combine in a shared relationship, with the 
most dominant aspects of each showing through. Dominant need not mean 
aggressive or violent, though - 
simply those traits that are strongest in each 
spirit. The Teomallki retains a fairly clear memory of his First Life, but the 
South American ritual does not allow for the complete return like the Spell of 
Life. By way of a Strength, the Teomallki receives Memory x 3, and for Liability, 
he gains the Flaw: Lesser Resurrection. 
Teomallki bodies begin to age after a number of decades equal to their 
Samapa (Ba) rating and eventually they will die like any other aging mortal, 
whereupon the spirit goes to sojourn in the Underworld. The corpse does not 
decay, though, instead entering a stasis like Amenti. On the next resurrection, 
the body returns to the physical age it was when the mallki died in its First Life 
(and as many mallki were often young, this is not as terrible as it sounds). The 
Teomallkimay also return like an Amenti, rather than waiting to be summoned 
by the living. Should the corpse be destroyed, the Teomallki suffers like the old 
Capacocha and cannot return at all. 
THE M7u T’IAN: WARRIORS OF THE TAO 
Throughout history, the philosophers and mystics who followed the 
teachings of Lao-Tzu and his disciples sought to create perfect harmony within 
themselves in order to come to a greater understanding of the essential unity 
between life and death. After the tyranny of the Qin Dynasty, which resulted 
in the persecution of many great sages, followers of the Tao studied many 
different paths in the hope of attaining a state beyond the cycles of life and 
death - 
perfect physical and spiritual immortality. Some achieved a state of 
near-agelessness in the mortal realm, but a few others actually gained the ability 
to cycle between the Middle Kingdom of mortal humans and the spiritual 
realms of the Yellow Springs, the Dark Kingdom of Jade, much like the 
Shemsu-heru of Egypt. A handful of the greatest of these mystics ascended to 
be with Lao-Tzu in Heaven; they became known as the Eight Immortals, 
patrons and advocates of those who followed Heaven’s ways. 
These are dark times for Heaven. The August Personage of Jade has 
abandoned his throne, however, much like Osiris left the Amenti, and now 
there are whispers of a coming Demon Emperor who seeks to rule paradise. The 
Eight Immortals have been forced to leave Heaven, as they have no emperor 
to serve, and they face the coming of the Demon Emperor with calm, steadfast 
resignation. They have undertaken not to engage the Abyss directly (the force 
of corruption the Amenti call Apophis), as that would surely be futile suicide. 
Instead, they have decided to preserve whatever purity they might in the face 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of the impending crisis, with the knowledge that justice and compassion will 
eventually return, as balance always does. 
The Eight quickly realized, however, that they needed protectors - 
beings that could move through both realms of existence, who could work great 
feats of magic and survive the burgeoning Demon Age while they themselves 
worked to preserve all that was left sacred in the Universe. They turned to the 
last 200 sages of the Tao, weakened though many of them had become, to 
gather from among their students those who might best represent the ancient 
way of Heaven during the coming time of chaos and blight. To each of these 
students, young and na‘ive as many of them were, the Eight Immortals gave the 
elixir of eternal life in return for their unending devotion to the Tao. These new 
immortals have been named Wu T’ian, the family of Heaven. 
Once the student drinks the elixir, she is taken, body and soul, to the gates 
of Heaven where the Eight Immortals waited. After suitable contemplation of 
how she might best face the coming perils, the Wu T’ian is given a quest by the 
Eight Immortals. This quest could take place in the Middle Kingdom, the Yin 
or Yang Worlds (the Shadowlands and the Middle Umbra), or it may even take 
her to the farthest stinking reaches of Yomi, the Thousand Hells. The nature 
of the quest is variable and could be anything from standing guard over the 
Spring of Eternal Yang, to escorting someone safely back to their home. Once 
the quest is complete, the Wu T’ian returns to the gates of Heaven for a period 
of rest and contemplation, before being given another quest. Should the Wu 
T’ian be destroyed while on a quest, her body and soul return to the gates of 
Heaven for a period of reflection before being sent to complete the original 
quest, or she may be handed another one entirely. 
THE E N  HEAYENLY PRECEPTS 
The Ten Heavenly Precepts are the concepts each Wu T’ian tries to 
master as he continues his journey through the universe. They need not be 
acquired in any particular order, but should the Wu T’ian act consistently in 
a way that goes against the Precepts, he could lose a part of his Quest Trait 
rating, which represents the Wu T’ian’s alignment with the Way of Heaven. 
The Quest Trait rating functions the same way Balance does for the other 
mummies, and loss of this rating affects the Wu T’ian just as adversely. At 
Storyteller discretion, the Wu T’ian may have to master Gentle Deeds before 
he can master Honest Speaking, particularly if the Wu T’ian character has 
problems with shooting first and asking questions later. 
The Ten Heavenly Precepts are: 
Compassionate Dealings 
The purpose of the Wu T’ian is to protect the TenThousandThings under 
Heaven, and though they acknowledge a need for balance, members of 
Heaven’s family must never overlook those who are in need. Masters of this 
precept seek out those whose need is greatest and undertake to deliver them 
from their crises. 
Gentle Deeds 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


they protect, the WuT’ianknow that they must not becomedemons themselves. 
They seek to never do unnecessary harm - 
even to the servants of evil - 
and 
to encourage the preservation and growth of all things whenever possible. 
Honest Speaking 
Lies serve only demons. Although Yomi has its place in the balance of all 
things, the family of Heaven opposes the Demon Emperor by speaking truth in 
the face of lies. Those who master this precept know that truth must be spoken 
at all costs. 
Humble Mind 
Those who follow this precept show no favoritism toward themselves, and 
know that they exist to serve until the end of the Demon Emperor’s reign, and 
ask only to serve as well as they can. The masters of Humble Mind act knowing 
they serve only a small part of the protection of the world, and they never 
expect praise or reward. 
Just Decisions 
For those practicing Just Decisions, there can be no unfair or vengeful 
thought or action. The masters of this precept are the most right and just of 
beings. 
Keen Observation 
The Observant has achieved a state of disciplined watchfulness. She will 
not act hastily; she always observes a situation as fully as possible before taking 
action. Many Wu T’ian who have mastered this precept spend several hours a 
day just observing the world around them, watching for signs of the Demon 
Emperor. 
Outer Harmony 
By safeguarding places of solace and harmony, the immortal ensures that 
some of the beauty of the world survives the Age of Sorrows. Those who have 
mastered this precept work tirelessly to protect that which otherwise would not 
survive. 
Passion for Learning 
Knowledge is a potent weapon and a source of great enlightenment. The 
true sage delights in meditation on all he can learn about a subject. Masters of 
this precept spend significant amounts of time in reflection and study, and 
encourage everyone to learn all they can, especially about one’s enemies. 
Respect for All Life 
Those who master this precept know that the greatest hope for survival 
may come from even the lowliest creature, and so they show respect for life by 
doing as little harm to other creatures as possible. Respecting life does not mean 
sacrificing one’s own, however. Followers of this precept are free to eat and 
defend themselves and their charges. 
Solitary Heart 
The family of Heaven must remain detached from individual ties if they 
are to save what can be saved from the Demon Emperor. They treasure friends, 
family members and lovers, but know that their quests eventually take them far 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


away from those they love. They therefore do not look for direction from 
others. 
CHI 
Chi is the wellspring inside the Wu T'ian that powers their Arts. Just as 
an Amenti's Sekhem is spent to fuel Hekau, the Wu T'ian spend Chi to tap into 
their divine powers, as well as heal themselves. One point of Chi may be spent 
to heal one level of bashing or lethal damage per tum. Wu T'ian may also use 
a point of Chi in lieu of Willpower for a retest. The Wu T'ian regain Chi just 
as the Amenti regain Sekhem, but only in dragon nests or along dragon tracks 
(See Laws of the East). 
THE KNOWLEDGE OF TEN THOUSAND THINGS: 
THE ARTS 
The Wu T'ian spend a great deal of time in contemplation of spirits, and 
next to none on the meanings of names. Becoming fixated on naming things 
is contrary to the Tao. Inconsequence, the WuT'ian may not leamNomenclature, 
but instead have an expanded understanding of Necromancy. Costs and 
challenges are comparable to those presented in the Amenti's Hekau, in 
Chapter Four. 
These are the Arts known only to the Wu T'ian: 
BASIC 
Call the Spirits 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Chi: 1 
The wise Wu T'ian is familiar with all spirits. With this ritual (and a 
successful Static Mental Challenge), she may call upon any type of elemental 
or nature spirit to appear. Each type of spirit must be learned individually as a 
separate ritual. The types of spirits that may be summoned are: earth, air, fire, 
water, metal, plant and animal. Otherwise, this functions the same as Summon 
the Dead (Necromancy Hekau). Retest with Occult. 
Know the Wandering Soul 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 6 
Chi: None 
In comprehending that all things are more similar than dissimilar, and yet 
each think is distinct from the things most like it, the Wu T'ian gain insight 
into even the most alien of mortals, animals and spirits. By greeting or sharing 
a meal with an unknown creature (this interaction being a part of the ritual), 
the Wu T'ian may ask as many simple questions (yes/no, true/false, or requiring 
up to a two-word answer) of the Storyteller about the creature in question as 
he has levels in Necromancy (one for Basic, two for Intermediate, three for 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Challenge is required to see if the Wu T'ian can discern the desired information. 
Retest with Divination. 
See the Lands of the Spirit 
Type: Spell 
Chi: None 
Those on the way to enlightenment begin to see things veiled to normal 
eyes. With a successful Mental Challenge, the Wu T'ian may see into the Yin 
(Shadowlands) or Yang (Middle Umbra) worlds to view the happenings and 
inhabitants there. While so engaged, the Wu T'ian is considered to be down 
two Traits in all other activities, as she is attempting to process two different 
sets of information. Retest with Awareness. 
The Way of the Calm Soul 
Type: Spell 
Chi: None 
Because the Wu T'ian is knowledgeable about the spirits that reside in all 
things, he may call out to a single soul that is troubled and ease states of panic 
or anxiety with a successful Social Challenge. If the spirit resides within a 
supernatural creature that is resisting frenzy or some similar state, Way of the 
Calm Soul grants two bonus Traits to aid in resisting. Retest with Empathy. 
INTERMEDIATE 
Bind the Demon's Servant 
Type: Spell 
Chi: 2 
This Art is used in defense of the Ten Thousand Things, as its purpose is 
to bind or banish any malevolent lesser spirit. This Art functions the same as 
Banish the Dead and Bind the Dead (Necromancy Hekau). Retest with Occult. 
Brambles on the Road 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 8 
Chi: 1 
Distinction can often be as important as oneness to a Wu T'ian, especially 
when dealing with spirits. This Art increases the immediate area's Shroud 
rating by two with a successful Static Mental Challenge. The effect lasts for one 
scene. Retest with Cosmology. 
The Clearing of the Way 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: 7 
Chi: 1 
This Art is the reverse of Brambles on the Road, whereby the caster focuses 
on the similarities between the worlds and decreases the division between them 
with a successful Static Mental Challenge. The immediate area's Shroud rating 
drops by two for one scene. Retest with Cosmology. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Protect Against the Demon 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Six 
Chi: 2 
The Wu T'ian seek to protect places of purity within the realm of the 
coming Demon Emperor, and with this ritual, places that nourish and protect 
life can be warded from taint. With a successful Static Mental Challenge, an 
area so warded is protected from the servitors of one of Yomi's lords, be they 
lesser demons, mortals or other supernatural. This ritual works similarly to 
Sense the Dead (Necromancy Hekau), but has the distinction of working against 
anyone who serves Apophis in some fashion, consciously or not. This can 
include anyone from the teen Satanist torturing frogs in his backyard to the 
ancient vampires who spread Apophis' corruption. Any such creature can be 
denied access to the area, the determining factor being a Willpower Challenge 
with the ritual's caster. Should the caster win, the offending creature cannot 
enter the protected area. The ritual plays upon the intruder's weaknesses, so any 
effect from the intruder simply losing interest to suffering overwhelming fear 
causes the intruder to flee the area. If the challenge is tied, or the intruder wins, 
he may enter the protected area and senses no mystical influence, though the 
caster is still alerted to the incursion. Retest with Occult. 
ADY ANCED 
Walk the Barriers 
Type: Ritual 
Difficulty: Shroud rating 
Chi: 4 
The quests of Heaven are not simple to fulfill, and sometimes it is required 
that the WuT'iango places that are separate from this reality. To cross into the 
spirit worlds, the Wu T'ian casts this ritual, which functions like Separate Ba, 
except that the caster's physical form is also transferred. He becomes a single 
psychic entity. This Art is not subject to time limit, and to return to the living 
world, the Wu T'ian simply repeats the ritual. Retest with Occult. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6
