INKS 


ISBN 1-56504-780-X 
WW5404 $7 95 U S 
1111111 
I 1  


BECAUSE THE MIND’S EYE NEVER BLINKS 


CREDITS 
Authors: Bruce Baugh, KenCliffe, RichardE. Dansky, JessHeinig, JamesStewart, 
Developer: Carl Bowen 
Editor: Richard Ruane 
Art Director: Richard Thomas 
Photographer: J.P. Rhea 
Front and Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten 
Layout and Typesetting: Becky Jollensten 
Cynthia Summers, Lindsay Woodcock, Peter Woodworth 
WHAT YOU’VE MISSED 
Issue #1 
Live-action Pumonca rules 
Live-action rules for the True Black Hand 
Combination Disciplines 
Master-level Thaumaturgy Rituals 
Live-action Nunnehi rules 
Tips on starting and maintaining a long-running chronicle 
Articles on the Camarilla organization and One World by Night 
A look at how Mind’s Eye Theatre has changed and grown over time 
Live-action rules for playing the Thallain of the Shadow Court 
World of Darkness Fiction 
A human’s perspective on the terrors that stalk the World of Darkness 
A look ahead at one of the most eagerly anticipated Mind’s Eye Theatre releases 
of the year 
h u e  #2 
Issue #3 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf 
the Apocalypse, Wraith theOblivion,Changelingthe~am~ 
ing, Hunter theReckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage 
the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal, Dark Kingdom of Jade, Dark 
Kingdom oflade Adventures and EndsofEmpire are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wo1f.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN THE USA. 
G A M E  S T U D I O  


BECAUSE T H E  M I N D ’ S  F;’1’€ 
N F V F R  B1,INIiS 
TABLE 
O E  CONTENTS 
WELCOMETOTHE 
MIND’S FYETHFATRFJOURNAL 
D E A D ~ U Y  
SPEAKS 
T H E  CUBBENT 
T H I N K I N ~  
NEWBIE 
BOOT CAMP 
I N S I D E T H E  
CLOSET: 
EASHION T I P S  
E O B T H E  
B L O O D L O B N  
PBONOUNCEMENTSEBOM 
ON H I ~ H  
by the Mind’s Eye Theatre developer 
A PLACE 
E O B  EVERY THIN^ 
LAWS 
O E  ASCENSION 
T H E  DARK 
K I N ~ D O M O E  
JADE 
MAYDAY! PART 
THREE: 
INVASION 
by Lindsay Woodcock 
IT’S T H E  E N D O E T H E  
WORLD! 
WHAT Do I Do NEXT? 
by Richard E. Dansky 
A NEW B B F E D O E  
HUNTERS 
by Ken Cliffe 
EVENT HORIZON 
A NEW CHARACTER 
SHECTEOBLAWSOETHFNI~HT 
from Yours Truly 
by Richard E. Dansky 
by James Stewart 
from Auntie Csilla 
by Peter Woodworth 
by Jess Heinig 
by Bruce Baugh 
4 
5 
IO 
=7 
a2 
25 
27 
39 
45 
58 
62 
7 0  
74 
8 0  


WELCOME 
T O  T H E  MIND’S EYE THEATRE 
JOURNAL. 1 
Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the fourth issue of the MET 
Journal. For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second 
to acquaint you with just what you’ve got here. (For those who’ve read this 
before, you may skip ahead to “Deadguy Speaks” on the next page.) 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps in 
your White Wolf LARP environment. We offer rules for new character types, 
original storylines to work into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games 
under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won’t find in any 
other Mind’s Eye release. Plus, you’ll find answers to the questions that have 
plagued you, original World of Darkness fiction and columns from people 
who’ve been LARPing or working here at White Wolf (or both) for years. 
In this issue, we take a look at the wraiths of the Yellow Springs, the 
implications of Hunter: The Reckoning for your Mind’s Eye chronicles and 
a short treatise on live-action mages from the Mage developer himself. And 
that’s just a sample ofwhat’s in store for you here. We’ll also take a look at what 
you’ve missed in previous issues (if you’re joining us late) and what to expect 
in the future of Mind’s Eye Theatre and White Wolf in general. 
In future issues of the Journal, we’ll present an entirely new LARP 
adventure, a look back through history at some historical expansions to our 
most popular games, a look ahead at a possible future of the World of Darkness 
and more MET rules conversions. 
And you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on your 
opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us questions 
about the features and rules you see here, as well as notes about the broken rules 
you come across in different MET publications. Send us horror stories about 
games gone wrong and how your player characters fixed them. We’re inter- 
ested in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and we want to know what you 
think. 
Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; 
we’ve got something for everybody. And if we don’t have it yet, let us know. 
We’ll get it for you. 
Curl Bowen 
Developer 
curl@white-wolf. corn 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theutre Journal Developer 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Chrkston, GA 30021 
USA 


DFADCjUY SPFAKS 
However, Dame Fortune smiles Onme, and this column 
will continue to showcase Rich’s unique insight, h 
his observutions on life in general and his view 
dzvelopment of Mind’s Eye Theatre, though 
lanner be directly in the middle of the action 
A C~REAT ONUS I S  PLACED 
UPONTHEE 
This one’s going to be a little different, folks. Bear with me. I’m sitting here, not too 
long after the Columbine High Schoolshootings, pondering what it is that we do that makes 
us such easy targets for scapegoating in the wake of tragedy. More importantly, I have to ask 
what we - 
you and I - 
can do about it. 
(Author’s note: I have nothing but sorrow for the families, friends and classmates of the 
children cut down in Columbine. My mother works in amiddle school, and every time I hear 
about another outrage in a public school somewhere, my first irrational thought is to call 
and make sure that she’s all right. Nothing I say here is intended to diminish the shock and 
horror of incidents like that at Columbine, even now, when so much time has passed.) 
Here’s a revelation for you: America does not necessarily like live-action roleplaying. 
It does not necessarily like people who pretend to be vampires or werewolves cavorting 
around the local coffeehouse or state park and frightening the paying customers with vicious 
rounds of Rock-Paper-Scissors. A hundred thousand people will cram themselves into a 
concrete toilet bowl with tiny seats on a weekend afternoon, painting team logos on their 
well-developed beer bellies and screaming for someone to rip a quarterback‘s or referee’s 
head off, but it’s those weirdoes who skulk around in black and quote Shelley that people 
think you have to watch out for. 
In other words, depending upon how understanding your local community is, it can 
really, really suck to be an MET player. 
That’s just the way it is, at least at the moment. You and I know it, and one of the 
favorite conversational topics that comes up whenever players of MET get together (besides 
discussing characters, making fun of those idiots at White Wolf who clearly don’t know 
what they’re doing and comparing prices on fake fangs) is the fact that the world just doesn’t 
like LARPers. It’s a sad state of affairs, yes, but something about it nags at me. LARPing may 
not be loved by all walks of life, but at the same time, that does not excuse the self-martyred 
“woe betide us for having an unpopular hobby” attitude that seems to exist in certain 
quarters. Yes, there are places where MET games get it hard. Believe me, all the stories come 
back to us here at the office sooner or later, and we do what we can to help. But there are 
other places where a little effort on the part of players and Storytellers, a little willingness 
to teach and explain rather than an insistence on feeling persecuted, can do a world of good. 
So let’s talk about responsibility here. 
Specifically, let’s talk about yours. 


intrinsically that LARPing is a friendly social activity that is enjoyable for a great many 
people, and not some sort of weird pseudo-mystical immersion in the nether realms of the 
human psyche. If life were fair, you wouldn’t have to explain to your folks or your faculty 
advisor that it’s just a costume and you don’t really think that you’re Mircea the Ravenous, 
Tzimisce Overlord of the Borgo Pass. They would just get it, wish you good luck storming 
the castle and - 
if you were really lucky -comment 
on the nice trim you’d added to your 
cloak since the last game. 
But life’s not fair. You know that, I know that, and the rest of the world knows that. 
Like it or not, our hobby is simply not something that much of “mainstream” society gets. 
It requires leaps of faith. It requires suspension of disbelief. It requires spending time as 
someone else, and, on occasion, it requires saying funny words and wearing funny clothes. 
None of these things are necessarily intuitive to perfectly nice folks whose idea of a game 
is building hotels on Baltic Avenue before someone else beats them to Free Parking. Sad as 
it may be, you simply cannot rely on the goodwill of the universe to make people understand 
that Mind’s Eye Theatre, or any type of roleplaying, is nothing more or less than a game. 
(Time for a sidebar rant here: One of the most frequent complaints I get when I hear 
from people whose parents or teachers or store owners or whatever have shut down their 
LARPs is that whoever is doing the shutting down is “wrong.” Well, duh. Of course they’re 
wrong. It is just a game, nothing more and nothing less, even if they’re convinced it’s going 
to turn you into Sabrina the Teenaged Witch. However - 
and this is the part that matters 
-it 
does not matter one teeny little bit that they are wrong, as long as they’re the ones holding 
the big stick. Being right and a buck will get you a small cup of lousy cappuccino these days. 
As long as the folks with the power think they’re right, it doesn’t matter what the facts of the 
case actually are. That’s the way it is, pure and simple. 
Yeah, they’re wrong, but you know what: They could think that LARPing promotes 
watching the Teletubbies and joining the alien conspiracy at Roswell, and your game would 
still get shut down because They Have the Big Stick. Again, I state that it is categorically, 
unmitigatedly, unabashedly unfair. But that’s just too bad. It was unfair that Belgian 
neutrality got violated in 1914 too, but the universe doesn’t much care about fair. All you 
can do is try to make the unfairness of it all work in your favor - 
or at least work against 
you less emphatically. The more time you spend kvetching about life being unfair, the less 
you’re going to get done. It’s that simple.) 
All of this brings us back to the most important person in the whole equation: You. 
You have to make a difference, one person at a time. You have to take a moment and 
sit down with your parents to explain what you’re doing and why it’s just a game. They’re 
your parents. Odds are they’re not irretrievably evil. Odds are that if they’ve expressed 
disapproval over that game you’re playing, it’s because they’re worried about you. They may 
not be doing the world’s greatest job of expressing that concern in a palatable or even open- 
minded way, but it’s there, nonetheless. Remember, also, where their information is coming 
from. The treatment of roleplaying in the traditional media has been, to be blunt, anywhere 
from mildly to wildly inaccurate on many occasions. However, your folks don’t know that. 
They just know that it says right there, in black and white, in the Upper Herkimer Herald- 
Democrat-Observer-Picayune that an occult expert from Sheboygan, Michigan, has decided 
that your game is naughty and evil, and it must be that you’re “immersed in the occult” - 
whatever that means. Personally, I’ve always resisted being immersed in the occult because 
A) the stains are hard to get out of mv boxers, and B) I’m actuallv a former vouth group 


On a more serious note, I know that you don’t have to immerse yourself in the occult 
to play Masquerade. You know that you don’t need to immerse yourself in the occult to play 
Masquerade. God help anyone who tries to claim that there’s something Satanic about 
invoking the images of rock, paper and scissors, because, if you ask me, that’s the final twist 
of the loosest of all possible screws. But that occult expert out there (and how does one make 
a career out of being an occult expert, anyway? It doesn’t strike me as the sort of thing one 
puts on a rtsumt) is sure that the game does mandate such goofiness, and the harried reporter 
looking for a quote from an expert may not know any better. The quote gets printed, sitting 
there in black and white for all the world to see. And because that information is there in 
the paper - 
and they wouldn’t print it in the paper if it weren’t true - 
that’s where your 
folks’ idea of your hobby may well be coming from. 
(An aside: The newspaper ain’t always right. That little “corrections” item they tuck 
away where it’s hard to find is there for a reason - 
and that’s just the stuff someone caught 
and yelled about. You might want to bear that in mind. Just because it’s in agate type on a 
piece of a dead tree doesn’t mean it’s gospel. After all, this got printed too, didn’t it?) 
What all that means, however, is that there’s a window of opportunity here for you to 
educate your folks - 
and by extension, your teachers, professors, faculty advisors and so on. 
Show them the books up close and personal so that they read the big words that say “No 
touching,” “No running,” “No drinking” and “It’s only a game.” You may even want to think 
about running a little demo, showing off a staged scene complete with challenges. Let’s face 
it, it’s kind of hard for anyone with any common sense to work themselves into a self- 
righteous frenzy over even the most heated exchange of R-P-S. If you really want to push 
your luck, you can even sell it as a vocabulary-building exercise. After all, who uses the words 
“brawny” or “lithe” in their daily conversation? Come to think of it, how many of your 
friends knew what “obfuscate” meant before 1991? 
Is this sort of common-sense approach going to work every time? Of course not. Some 
folks don’t want to be convinced. Some folks would rather rant and rave than face honest, 
simple facts. There’s nothing you can do about them. However, the vast majority of 
concerned parents, teachers and so on ate concerned because they’ve been told they should 
be concerned. Show them and tell them differently, and you may see some remarkable 
results. 
Now think about your community, be it a college campus, a town or a city. A basic fact 
of Mind’s Eye Theatre play is that you need space and lots of it. You need comers to plot 
in, shadows to hide in, coat rooms to cut deals in - 
whatever. You need room, and by 
spreading out your contingent of players over a lot of room, you increase your chances of 
having your players bump into someone who isn’t playing. When that happens, those who 
aren’t playing may well be curious as to why that guy over in the comer (you know, the one 
playing the Nosferatu) has Rice Krispies and Karo syrup all over his face. 
So is this a crisis or an opportunity? Well, if Gordo the Nosferatu decides to drip 
breakfast cereal all over the innocent bystanders, yeah, you just might get some negative 
feedback here. But if you take a minute and explain what you’re doing - 
and it’s always a 
good idea to talk with all of your players before starting the game about what to say if asked 
about what’s going on - 
you can go a long way toward building some goodwill and maybe 
even recruiting a new player or two. It’s just common sense, after all. No matter how 
alienated or antisocial your character might be, bringing that attitude into discussions with 
folks who don’t know diddly about what you’re doing is a great way to make them antisocial 
toward you. And believe it or not, there are a lot more of them out there than there are of 
you. Social Traits don’t matter too much when you get tossed off site for trespassing or told 
by Public Safety to bust it up because you’re freaking the mundanes. 


In a broader sense, it behooves you to let the community around where you’re playing 
know what you’re doing ahead of time. Call the local police station and explain that there’s 
a game happening there. Take the time to reassure them that there’s no touching or actual 
combat. That way, when the Hitchcock refugee of a paranoid neighbor calls down to the 
precinct in a panic over the black-clad hooligans running wild in the streets, the gendarmes 
already know its you (and that you’re harmless). If you’re going to be meeting at a coffee 
house, let the proprietor know that there are 30 vampires coming, and encourage your 
players to patronize the shop while they’re there. Thirty vampire players wandering in and 
drinking lots of coffee once a week is a stable customer base; 30 vampire players wandering 
in and taking up tables without buying anything is great way to shut that coffeehouse down. 
And if you are so classless as to bring your food or drink from elsewhere into an 
establishment dedicated to serving the same, I’ll personally hold you down long enough for 
the proprietor to kick your ass. Commoncourtesy is not optional. I know of at least one group 
that lost its space because some chuckleheads decided that they’d bring McDonalds Happy 
Meals to the site - 
which happened to be a cafe that sewed dinner. The phrase “dumber 
than a sack of sand” does not begin to do justice to this sort of nonsense. If you can’t afford 
the coffee-house prices, at least have the basic decency to eat your McThing McOutside or 
before you get to the McGame. Either that, or get ready to volunteer your basement. 
No, you don’t have a constitutional right to obstruct commercial floor space, so be 
considerate. Recognize that your game does impact the community around you, even in 
small ways, and try to make that impact positive. That way, if some yobbo writes a nasty 
editorial about those darn vampires, your local coffeehouse owner sees the call to shut down 
the game as the potential loss of 30 of his best (and hopefully best-behaved) customers. 
Three guesses which way he’ll hop in response. Profit motive outweighs fear of a black cloak 
every time. 
By the same token, think about what your game can give to the local community to 
demonstrate tangibly that you’re not a bunch of bloodsucking freaks: blood drives, cleaning 
up parks and stretches of local highways, food drives, adopting local families at holiday 
time.. . . You get the idea. None of these things is terribly difficult to arrange; there are dozens 
of charities out there in place who will be glad for a few more hands (even pale, tremulous 
hands with black-painted fingernails. Honest). Furthermore, the sight of a bunch of 
“vampires” doing a blood drive is often the sort of thing that’s irresistible to local news 
media. It makes for a great visual, allows the writers to haul out the one-liners they generally 
get to use only at Halloween, and most importantly, it shows your troupe off to the 
community in a positive tight. Just make sure that it’s not the guy with Rice Krispies glued 
to his face who gets interviewed by the cub reporter - 
and definitely not the guy who thinks 
it will be fun to play a Malkavian and calls himself “Count Fruitbatula.” He might think it’s 
funny to do his little tribute to Gene Simmons on camera, but remember, that’s the image 
that everyone in your local viewing area is going to have of you and your troupe. It often 
makes life easier if the entire world doesn’t think you’re a tongue-flapping drool spigot who 
gets his ya-yas licking a camera lens. Instead, you’ve got a perfect opportunity to be well- 
spoken and interesting for the public, even if it’s a virtual certainty that whatever you say 
will be reduced to anine-second sound bite. Do be careful with what you say; don’t bog down 
in detail or get esoteric because there’s always the chance that something you say could be 
taken out of context. It’s sad but true. On the other hand, you can look at it this way: Those 
nine seconds will help you reach a lot more potential new players all at once than any flyer 
in a game store ever could. A lot of groups even have a designated individual who gets 
propped up out front every time the media comes calling. This tactic might not be a bad idea 
if you’ve got someone particularly eloquent on hand. 


jackhammer manicure. If it happens, there isn’t a lot you can do about it. Take some time 
off until the furor cools down and use that time to plot a truly kick-ass game. Find someplace 
quieter to play. Find a good convention nearby with a LARP and get your fix there. Swap 
to live-action Changeling and tell everyone you’re doing Shakespeare. But don’t yell and 
scream for the sake of yelling and screaming; it won’t make matters easier down the road. 
Just find out who your real allies and enemies are and plot your comeback - 
preferably in 
accordance with what’s already been discussed here. 
In the end, it’s not fair. It’s something else that both you and I know. But just because 
it’s not fair doesn’t mean you can’t do anything about it. It’s worth the effort to diminish the 
chances of having your game or your participation in your game ended. It’s worth the effort 
to get out there and teach people about the good points of what you’re doing because the 
more of that you do, the less time you spend wondering when the hammer’s going to fall. 
And the less time you spend wondering about that, the less time you have to spend 
explaining to the umpteenth reporter or concerned parent that no, you really don’t drink 
blood or think you’re the immortal spawn of darkness, the better your game is going to be. 
In the end, isn’t that what it’s really all about? 


THF CURRFNT 
THINKINCj 
Ah, the old’s falling by the wayside all Over the place in this issue of the 
Journal. In this feature, I’ve combined the letters to the develoger and 
“Frequently Asked Questions’’ into one vozhd-like mass dedicated to what’s on 
the minds of today’s MET players. The ideas and opinions herein expressed are 
in no way those of the management or intended to represent an overview of the 
opinions of those who play Mind’s Eye Theatre games, unkss you find them 
particularly witty and worth taking to heart. Otherwise, the writers (some of 
whom appeared on the Forum section of White Wolfs website) are compktely 
on their own. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~~~~ 
A discussion started on the White Wolf website some months ago about the 
viability of mixed LARPs (i.e., games in which character types from various 
independent game lines participate in the same story). Considering that different 
themes, moods and ideologies apply to each individual White Wolf game, how easily 
could characters representing those themes (etc.) be meshed into one game? The 
original poster received a plethora of advice (some good, some decidedly not), and 
since this topic is one that recurs in Mind’s Eye Theatre play (and will continue to 
do so throughout this game line’s long future), I decided to reprint some of the best 
(and worst) responses. This first letter, though sloppy in presentation, is well- 
intentioned in meaning. 
We have had a problem running an independent LARP with many people 
wanting to play many different things. First things first. 
Numina: Certain numina are so rare that you have to use common sense. How 
many people in your LARP will have Telepyrokinesis, or Telepathy? 
Garou: Make sure the players of the Garourealize their characters either work with 
or against the vampires. In our game, our area is heavily BSD-dominated. The Garou 
know their life span is that of a zit. They have to work with vamps or against them. We 
allow players to play other werecreatures according to rarity. It is perfectly fine for one 
Gurhal to appear in West Virginia. However, 10 Bastet in one town in West Virginia 
is not good. 
Mages: Don’t touch them, they just cause problems. Just say no. Mummies: There 
are 47 in the world. How many of them are likely to come to your town? 
Risen: Don’t touch this one with a 20-foot pole unless you want a walking battle 
tank. 
Remember, the Storyteller’s best friend is the ability to say, “NO.” 
-Nurain 
(nurain@hotmail.com) 


Unless the Storyteller hooks you up with an interesting and somewhat logical plot 
-moth 
line, I still can’t understand the reasoning behind your role. 
While this next guy is no Baz Lerman (remember him?), he does make some 
interesting points. However, apply salt-grains liberally when reading. 
I’ve been playing Garou for quite a few years and I’ve been there, I can feel your 
pain. Come to think of that, I’m in the same boat. My Garou characters are constantly 
surrounded by vampires. The best advice I can offer is simple: Read Your hws! There 
are many, many, many neat little tricks Garou can pull to save their necks if they get 
in trouble, which are provided in Laws of the Wild. The rest of these tips are ones I’ve 
found that can really swing the balance in you favor. 
-Avoid your Crinos form; it scares the hell out of vampires. They will attack you 
if you use it openly. Stay in Homid; it’s less threating. 
- 
Gangrel can be your best buddies, and they’re not Wyrtn-tainted. Bonus! Get 
on speaking terms with them. 
- 
If you are crafty and discreet, you can masquerade as a vampire (Gangrel are 
best). A Trait or two of Meditation could conceivably let you lower you heart rate and 
the temp in you hands, for instance. 
-You 
can enter the Umbra from any reflective surface, even the reflection in a 
person’s eyes (it says so in LotW). Don’t forget a Gnosis Trait will get you into the 
Umbra without a test. Which is to say: If you have to, run. 
-Spirits are you friend! Summon them properly, and they’ll help you do various 
things (dependent on the spirit type). Awaken them and they’re even more useful. Even 
if you kill them, they can serve as an instant Gnosis-battery! 
- 
Use Gifts creatively. Take Create Element for example. You can create a fire 
with thisGift thenmake it biggerbyaddingair.Orbetteryet,encase thatpesky Brujah‘s 
head in a block of stone as you make good your next action. Sure, he’ll pummel himself 
free eventually, but it’ll buy you some well-deserved time. Other good Gifts of note: Jam 
Technology, Clap of Thunder, Control Simple Machine, Sense Wyrm, Truth of Gaia, 
Persuasion, Luna’s Armor, Cyber-senses, Scent of Sweet Honey, The Fulling Touch, 
Paralyzing Stare and Scent of Sight. 
-Thatbringsme 
to thenextbit offun:TheUmbra.UseIt!!!!! ScrewBlurofthe 
Milky Eye and that stuff. You can peek out of the Umbra with a Simple Test against half 
the Gauntlet. And the best part is that damn near all vampires can’t see you. 
- 
One claw, two claw, three claw, four, plus your teeth. Each appendage does 
aggravated damage. 
-Get 
a Totem!!!!!!! I can’t stress this enough. Having a pack helps as well. 
- 
Yes you are a savage beast full of Rage, but acting like one will only get 20 or 
so vampires hunting you for your hide. Be cool, calm and collected. Yes kindred are of 
the Wyrm, and they must be destroyed to save Gaia, but it would be much better if you 
could live to see that day. Besides, you loose Renown for stupid acts of bravery, unless 
you play a Get of Fenris. 
- 
Don’t play Get of Fenris. 
- 
Manipulate. 


I am speaking now to the people who understand improvisational acting, mood, 
tone and texture; those who are allergic to rocks, paper and scissors. Sick of the twinks 
in your game? Sick of the hour-long time freezes while a pack of wannabe-goth boys tries 
to affirm its manhood by playing a child’s game? Tired of being the only one with 
something to say that isn’t “I’m Brutal enough to blah blah blah...”? Do you often find 
yourself wondering where your game went wrong? Know the answer? 
It’s the twinks. They suck. You know they suck. Everyone else knows they suck ... 
but they have the biggest gun-bunny characters around .... What do you do? Well, leave 
it to Zhavric to come up with the answer. 
Buy them a copy of Aberrant. 
White Wolfs first venture into the world of the superhero and superpowers was 
not meant to be the Brujah Elder. It is here and it is now in this new book. Round up 
all your twinks when they show up, force them into a room, lock it and slide a copy of 
this book under the door. Let them get all that Mega-nonsense out of their system over 
a tabletop, and maybe -just maybe -they will get bored of playing characters that 
can juggle tanks. Maybe they will figure out that there is more to live-action gaming 
than number-crunching. 
If they don’t figure it out, leave them there. 
-Zhavric 
(zhavric@hotmail.com) 
Okay, so even all-knowing Zhavric has ably demonstrated his capacity to miss 
the point behind the Aberrant game, but his point about live-action gaming is solid. 
I’m going to switch to a different font here for a minute and throw my own editorial 
into the ring. 
There exists in live-action gaming (in all roleplaying, really) a dichotomy between 
those who play for the stories, themes and moods inherent in the game, and those who 
play because being the biggest, baddest [insert fruity character concept here] you can 
be isahellofalotoffun.AnyWhiteWo1fgame (especially in the live-actionline) lends 
itself to just that sort of dichotomy quite easily. In fact, some would say that that 
dichotomy is just what makes these games so popular in the first place. 
However, having both types of players in a game (unless the game is exceedingly 
well-populated) is going to result in players from one camp getting in the way of (and 
largely pissing off) the players from the other camp. It just happens; it’s the way of 
gaming life. Thus the proposition of giving both factions what they want is the best way 
to go about solving a lot of the friction that crops up between live-action players. 
Does your game have a significant contingent of players who just like to build 
indestructible doom-bots and overtake their enemies with effusive protestations of how 
Brutal, Dexterous, Ferocious or Vigurous they are? If so, get them together and work with 
them to give them the kind of plots they want. Throw slavering packs of Sabbat, Black 
Spiral Dancers, Unseelie redcaps (or whatever) at them, and let them do what they do 
best. If they have fun because you’ve made the “plot” for the evening engaging, you’re 
doing your job. 
Are you instead beset by tragically hip gothic youths who want to explore the 
boundaries of their fabricated [characters’] personalities, face moral dilemmas and use 
their brains to solve a conflict rather than relying on how many times they thought to 
writedown theRobwt Trait atcharactercreation?Youfindsomeofthemineverygame, 


and if you don’t want to lose them (or have your game unravel because that’s all there 
are), you have to account for them in your plots as well. Give them clues to process and 
mysteries to solve. Give them the work of cleaning up the messes caused by the clashes 
of the Stalwart hordes. Give them a reason to glower imperiously from the battlements 
as the others duke it out, but keep them involved. 
By working with both factions of the LARP crowd, you (as a player, Narrator or 
Storyteller) create a more well-rounded game that caters to all of your players instead 
of creating cliques among them. 
As for what to do when you’ve tried to work with your players, Narrators and 
Storytellers to no avail (maybe no one’s listening, or no one understands what you have 
to say), don’t be discouraged. Sometimes the best you can do is to lead by example. 
Create a character who interacts with (and has interests that take into account) the 
characters of both “real roleplayers” and “twinks.” Get involved with (or try to create) 
plots for both types of player. Talk to fellow players after game sessions about what you 
liked and disliked about the game, then bring up the topic with the staff once some 
downtime has passed. 
Just be aware that sometimes, no matter how reasonable you are, some games do 
begin that slow spiral into oblivion. If you’ve done all you can to save it or re-acclimate 
yourself to it, yet nothing helps, there’s no shame in finding a new game more suited 
to your style of play. Just make sure you’ve done all you can. 
And that’s all I’ve got to say about that. This last bit is a more specific form of 
Q&A which has flooded us since the release of h w s  of the Night’s revised edition 
hit the shelves. 
Question: Aaaaarrrrrrrgh!! Where are the character sheets for this book!?!? 
Answer: Fear not, you can find said character sheet right here in the back of your 
faithful Journal. We’ll reprint it in the next few issues as well, just to make sure nobody’s 
left out. 
E U R T H E B  EUBL 
Let me hear from you! 
You can e-mail your answers to these points, questions that repeatedly 
plague yourgames, or your opinions on subjects of your choosingm carl@white- 
wolf.com or mail them to: 
White Wolf Publishing Inc. 
Atm: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal 
735 Park North Blvd. 
Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
You can also post new threads for discussion to the MET forum on our 
website (http://www.white-Wolf.com,) 
. 


KWBIF BOOT CAMP 
by James Stewart 
$is f m r  
white wolf intern-tumd-employee has heardull the jokes about 
NS name mat there can possibly be - 
he didn’t ewen blink when I told him 1 wanted 
to name this artick “Mister Smith Goes LARPing” - 
but despite the abuse, he still 
agreed to this ratherpeculiar assignment. Basically, what1 wanted was anewbie’s-eye 
wiew of the W
P
 
scene, detailing ways to break away from the awkwardness and 
uncertainties that make thatfirst M
P
 
ewent such a special outing. .James deliwers on 
that expectation with T O T I U T ~ X I . ~ ~ ~  
skill, ewen adding advice for experienced phyers to 
help ease the new folks into this brawe new world they’we discowered. Now, ifwe could 
just get him to stop running around the oj&e shouting “Merry Christmas!” to all the 
different departments. . . 
H O W T O  
SURVIVE 
YOUR 
EIRST L A R P  
There will be time, there will be time 
To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet. 
-T.S. 
Eliot, “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufroclc” 
Like all first times, my first LARP experience was special and scary. I can say proudly 
that I survived and even had fun, but I wasn’t really sure what to expect. So, for those 
about to make their first appearance on the MET scene and the established troupes that 
must absorb these new players, here’s a brief survival guide to help you through that first 
night. 
The most important thing to remember is that, during the game, a lot of real-world 
interaction goes on that has little to do with the invented reality of the characters. 
Invented personas don’t always relate to each other on their own terms; the player - 
the 
puppeteer pulling the character’s strings - 
is never too far away. People who crave the 
spotlight push their characters to the center of the stage. Friends in real life tend to be 
friends in the game. 
While this camaraderie might not always be true to the spirit of the game, it’s 
unavoidable and largely appropriate. After all, the characters and their imaginary world 
exist so that real players can have fun. But when new faces appear in the crowd, an 
attitude arises which is equally true in both the game and real life: Strangers are unknown 
quantities. Will this new character prove a threat? Will this new player screw up our 
game? 
Confronting this attitude might make you feel left out, but fear not. There are some 
things you can do to prepare yourself. 
PBE- 
QAME STFIATE~Y 
First, expectations: If you’re already familiar with the tabletop version of the game 
you’re about to play, realize that the live-action version’s a little different. While tabletop 
games move along with one major plot and a few subplots, LARPs are collections of 
subplots with the larger plot proceeding somewhere in the background. Mind’s Eye 
Theatre is often compared to community theater or theatrical improvisation, but it’s 
more like a costume party. Don’t anticipate a more intensive tabletop experience. While 


the tabletop versions of the White Wolf games certainly emphasize character-develop- 
ment, characters are everything in MET. Rather than acting out a plot in which 
characters respond to external situations that are the sole purview and domain of the 
Storyteller, LARP characters respond to each other, each with his or her own agenda. 
This interaction creates story threads that thrust some characters together while 
excluding others completely. Getting involved with LARP plots takes a proactive 
commitment on the part of the players, whereas plots are all but spoon-fed to tabletop 
characters. 
With that in mind, design your first character as a social being. While your character 
doesn’t have to be a complete conformist or even an especially nice person, misanthropes 
who glare at the room in silent judgement and introverts afraid of everyone present are 
bad choices. That is, of course, unless your idea of a good time is leaning against a wall 
and not talking to anyone. At the same time, if you create a character who’s too aggressive 
or generally obnoxious, you’ll be keeping the wallflowers company on the sidelines as 
well. 
Create an individual capable of conversation. Since most MET play involves 
talking to other characters, invent someone up to the task and remember that a good 
character is a person who wants something. Give him some goals and reasons to interact 
with others. If you’re in a Masquerade game, for example, you’ll probably start out as a 
neonate newly created or new to town, and your character must seek out potential allies 
if she hopes to survive. 
while you can come up with your character’s background and personality without 
a rulebook, do get your hands on the rules a few days before the game is scheduled, if it’s 
at all possible, in order to build your character. If you can’t get the rules beforehand, show 
up for the game a little early. Any open LARP worth its salt will have someone available 
to walk you through the character-creation process. That’s the most complicated part of 
the game by far - 
the basic rules (apart from character creation) can be explained in five 
minutes. You’ll need your own copy of the rules eventually, but for the first night, 
concentrate on making the best character (the most real person) you can. 
Finally, exploit the connections you have with other players. If you have friends 
already involved with the game, make your character’s background somehow involve 
their characters so you’ll have some reason to hang close to them when you’re not makmg 
much progress with others. If you’re joining a game without knowing any of the other 
players, make sure you at least introduce yourself to the Storyteller over e-mail or on the 
phone. Make sure he knows you’re coming and that you’ve never LARPed before. Ask 
him about the general mood of the game and how best to get involved with existing plot 
lines. Most Storytellers are friendly people who have plenty of experience with introduc- 
ing new people to existing troupes. Plus, most Storytellers love it when new people 
express interest in their games, and they can be persuaded to answer questions and 
describe the themes and mood of the game with little effort. 
WHATTODO 
D U B I N ~ T H E  
EIBST *ME 
The game will begin and here’s what it will look like: A bunch of people will be 
standing around, some in fairly elaborate costume, talking to each other. Don’t panic- 
most of these folks are approachable. While it might be rude to slither up to a 
conversation and begin eavesdropping, keep in mind that your character is new and 
introductions are appropriate. Have answers ready for questions about who you are, where 
you’re from, and what you’re doing here. Who should you talk to first? In most LARPs, 


there’s an established hierarchy. Ask around, then seek out whomever you’re account- 
able to - 
your primogen, a local noble, a ranking Legionnaire or whatever. 
The important thing is to be bold. Where angels fear to tread, you must leap. Most 
LARPs are populated by cliques that tend to stick together, so expect to feel a little 
excluded at first. Don’t count on anyone to hold your hand or lead you through the 
evening. Get out there and interact. Otherwise, expect a long, dull night. 
At the same time, don’t find one person who will tolerate your presence and cling 
to him or her for the entire night. For your first game, get out there and try to meet as many 
people as you can. Don’t monopolize another’s time. If your character isn’t exactly asocial 
butterfly, ask ”ut-of-character to be introduced to a few people. Of course, there are 
always two safe bets for conversation: those who are like you (your clan, guild, kith, tribe 
etc.) and those who are standing alone, wishing they had your courage to go out and 
mingle. Befriending other new characters often makes good sense, especially in intrigue- 
oriented games. While individual new characters have little power, a gang of neonates 
or cubs is sure to frighten the establishment. Even better, it gives you a “home base,” a 
group to talk with during lulls in the action. 
As the game progresses, you’ll probably see people doing strange things with their 
hands. Don’t panic. These gesturesusually mean the character is using some supernatural 
power that the player is incapable of producing. In Blackened Hearth (an Atlanta 
Camarilla chapter LARP, on which I cut my newbie teeth), for instance, crossing your 
arms over your chest means that your character is obfuscated (that is, using the vampiric 
power of invisibility). Pointing at your eyes means you’re using Ampex (a supernatural 
heightening of the senses). These gestures vary from LARP to LARP, and not all of them 
signify the use of powers. Ask someone before the game how to signify that you’re out- 
of-character (like when you’re looking for a bathroom or having asnackbetweenscenes). 
Usually, crossing your fingers does the trick. 
During the evening, there will probably come a time when you’ll need a rule 
explained. If you don’t understand what’s happening, signify that you’re out of character 
and ask someone to tell you what’s going on. Everyone’s needed a rule explained at some 
point, so most players are willing to slow down the action long enough to fill you in. 
In the end, there’s a simple way to determine if you’re doing the right thing at your 
maiden LARP: Ask yourself, “Am I havingfun?” Ifthe answer is yes, you’re doing the right 
thing. If you sit in a chair the whole night, looking at all the costumes without ever 
opening your mouth, and you’re actually having fun, more power to you. But if the answer 
is no, you’re not having fun, you probably need to change your approach. Talk to different 
people, consider anew character, or get your existing one into trouble. If you sticksilently 
to the wall, your character will probably survive as long as you do. But where’s the fun in 
that? The exciting aspect of MET, besides getting to be someone (and something) else 
for a few hours, lies in achieving the goals you set for your character. Taking the plunge 
and talking to people is risky, in the game and in life, but it’s ultimately well worth it. 
Some final advice: Get to know the people you’re LARPing with. For some, 
LARPing is just a fun pastime, and for others it’s life. In the latter group, there are people 
for whom it’s life because it’s fun, and people for whom it’s life because they’re nuts. Avoid 
the nuts - 
there’s no pleasing those people. 
Fortunately, most MET-types are sane and indistinguishable from the rest of the 
humanity, and they probably have stronger opinions about the nuts than you do. I went 
into the Blackened Hearth game with an extremely cynical attitude about what sort of 


people would he there. I expected to encounter the psycho confederacy, complete with 
screw-in fangs and their clan symbols tattooed on their foreheads. Happily, I was proven 
completely wrong. 
T H E  NEXT C~AME, A N D T H E  NEXT 
Stick with a LARP, and you’ll be a familiar face before you know it. The best advice 
is just to use common sense. Have fun, and allow others to have fun as well. Don’t be a 
Rules Lawyer, don’t cheat, don’t be any of the varieties of Twinkus METus that Charles 
Bailey and Rich Dansky have described in previous issues of the Journal. 
Most importantly, don’t be afraid to play what you want to play. Your character can 
be a total bastard but still welcome in the game, because his presence provides achallenge 
for others. Also, don’t be daunted by the petty politics that seem to surround some 
LARPs. Make your opinions known but don’t be one of the folks who drive perfectly fun 
games to ruin by talking behind people’s backs and staging bimonthly secret revolutions. 
At the same time, don’t let the fear of that sort of out-of-game dynamic keep you from 
playing and enjoying yourself. Simply put, do what you want to do, but don’t ruin other 
people’s good time along the way. 
POSTSCRIPT: 
BE NICETOTHE 
NEWBIES 
Getting involved with a LARP would be easier if the experienced players made their 
games more accessible to new players. So for you folks already involved in a game, here 
are a few suggestions to make things better for the tyros. 
Unless you want to keep your LARP small, inbred, poor and newbie-free, you need 
to incorporate new players in such a way that they’ll have fun and stick with the game. 
Make a point of talking to the new people at least once during the course of the evening. 
Sure, your character’s the most important being in the city, far too important to actually 
acknowledge a new face. Can’t you send a lackey over to find out a little about the 
newcomer? In a larger game, it simply isn’t practical to talk to all the new people. If 
nothing else, avoid discounting them out of hand. At least give them a nod and an 
acknowledgement before you get on with your life. 
Also, don’t whip out too many arcane rules on the beginners. They’re still trying to 
figure out what all the crazy gestures mean. Saying, “I don’t care if your sheet’s done, I 
want to see you write up a treatment of your character history using the Prelude 
Flowcharts in the Masquerade Players Kit,” doesn’t quite convey the friendly welcome 
you should give newbies for showing up to your game. And if you absolutely must 
dominate a newbie’s character into standing still so you can destroy her with your 
Advanced Stormbringing and the Windmill Dance of the Never-Ending Bloodbath, at 
least explain to her out-of-character what’s going on. After the game, you should shake 
her hand and tell her sincerely that you enjoyed the scene and that you hope to see her 
again next time in more genteel circumstances. The newbie will, no doubt, come blazing 
back onto the scene with a new character ready to avenge the recently deceased, but at 
least she’ll come back. 
Those involved in organizing the game or Storytelling should pay particular 
importance to the new folks. Yeah, you’re busy. At least come up to them after the game 
and ask if they had fun and invite them to the next game. If you’re running an invitation- 
only game, you’ve probably already figured out that most of this advice doesn’t apply to 
you. But for most LARPs, new players are precious - 
try not to scare away too many. 


INSIDF THF CLOSFT: 
EASHION TIPS FOR THF 
BLOODLORN 
by Auntie Csilla 
Good evening, kiddies, and welcome to another edition of Auntie Csilla’s wit and 
wisdom. How’s it hanging? Mine’s currently in mothballs for the season, but that’s 
another story. 
while there aren’t any Elysium fashion police, there are times when they sure would 
be helpful. How many times have you been able to spot every Tremere walking in simply 
because they’re all wearing black capes and accessorizing with pentacles and canes? How 
many Toreador insist on showing up in the same black lace ensemble? Consider this 
article, then, the equivalent of the Elysium Fashion Highway Patrol. 
First, let’s start with color. There’s no denying that black is a nice basic to build on. 
It matches everything, it looks classy and mysterious, just about everyone can wear it 
(very slimming, you know), and it’s timeless, while colors vary from season to season. At 
Say you’ve never been to a Masquerade event - 
01 you don’t attend regularly 
enough - 
and you can’t put your finger on exactly why you feel out of p h e .  The 
reason for that may be the way you’re dressed. Whik it‘s okay to smnd out from the 
crowd, there are some accepted conventions of vampiric fashion that have become the 
wrm and even passed on into the realm of stereotype. For tips on recognizing those 
stereotypes (and breaking the mold with class and fir), read on. Auntie Csilla‘s got 
just the right advice.. . 
~ 
k 
the same time, if everyone around you is wearing black, you don’t stand out from the 
crowd. For all you Toreador, isn’t that a fate worse than being tacky? If you want to go 
for the “I’m dark and mysterious” bit, consider other deep colors, such as crimson, forest 
green, teal, navy, burgundy, purple or charcoal gray. You don’t even have to go all red or 
green or whatever. Just a few little bits (like the buttons, a scarf, a boutonniere, a vest, 
jewelry) can make somebody’s eyes give you more than a once-over. 
Secondly, fit. In short, if you can’t zip it/ button it/ tie it without seriously sucking 
it in-and you haven’t beenable toforyears-put 
it in theGoodwil1 bin. Whenclothes 
don’t fit, you look uncomfortable and certainly not your best. It’s one thing to be 
hermetically sealed in satin if you’re built like a toothpick or you have the sort of figure 
that gets your picture slapped onto the “Dangerous Curves Ahead” signs, but honey, if 
you’re neither, reconsider. 
Thirdly, gimmick or shtick. Call it what you will, the most memorable characters 
always have something that makes them stand out when they wear it. Indiana Jones had 
his fedora, Fred Astaire had his tux, the Black Dahlia had the original head-to-foot all 
in black -er, bad kind of unforgettable on that one. At any rate, think about something 
you can do that will be your particular signature. It doesn’t need to be wearing the same 
dang thing over and over. It could be a Toreador neonate who wears grunge or a Gangrel 
in chain mail. What about a Ventrue whose main business is manufacturing surf boards? 


Whoa, dude, he shows up to the primogen meetings in a body glove! (I’m of course 
presuming that said Ventrue has considered provision number two.) 
Now I know some of you out there have to work when you attend court. Sheriffs, 
we all know what trashing unruly diablerists can do to that nice suit, and far be it from 
me to encourage you to ruin your Sunday-go-to-Elysium clothes. If you have to work, you 
know best what you should do. Consider what follows to be the law for all the rest of the 
layabouts. 
Your average Brujah tends to look like a punk-era relic that got nibbled on by moths 
while in storage. Black leather, tom denim lots of piercings, tattoos and dangerous hair 
-gag me with a spoon. Hey, you guys make a big deal about how they’re all independent 
and whatnot, right? So dress like it! Who said you gotta show up in tom jeans and a black 
leather jacket? I wanna see their faces when you trot in with black pants and a clean shirt! 
Sisters, watch them collect their jaws when you wear velvet or silk! Hey, what good is 
being a rebel if you all look the same? 
I know, I know - 
when you look more and more like an animal and spend a lot of 
time with animals that don’t give two bits what you look like, fashion becomes a 
secondary concern, and that’s the way it is with your average Gangrel. Still, it’s polite to 
wear clothes to Elysium; if nothing else, the city’s decency laws will be all over you like 
whiteonrice ifyou don’t. Goodwill bins, St. Vincentde Paulshops, the local Army-Navy 
surplus store - 
all are very good for restocking your wardrobe when you find yourself in 
a pinch. One fine-looking specimen was partial to collecting the occasional bit of jewelry 
from his travels and wearing it to court. He had a set of silver Tibetan bracelets that he 
wore on special occasions; I’m holding them for him right now while he’s visiting the 
Yukon. 
Before we go any further, I’d like to register a complaint against whoever it was it 
who said that Malkavians needed to accessorize with stuffed animals and fuzzy rabbit 
slippers. Come clean now, and I’ll kill you befure I string you up. But first things first - 
leave Mr. Bear at home, unless you redy need him. Your average homicidal maniac, serial 
killer or otherwise serious nut job usually looks normal to the point of nerdiness. Some 
do what the voices in their heads tell them to do (including wearing every single piece 
of clothing they own to keep it from getting stolen), some wear special helmets to block 
out the mind-control rays, and some go for the antique look. I’ve seen mystics in filmy 
drapes, wack-job loners in their old varsity jackets, and an elder who wore commedia 
masks for special occasions. One of the most seriously twisted cases I ever spotted at court 
was Douglas Netchurch. I would give my left tit not to be left alone with this man (and 
sowouldyouifyouknewhim), but ifyousawhimonthestreet anddidn’tknowotherwise, 
you’d think he was just another doctor getting away from the hospital for a bit. 
Yes, even the Sewer Rats merit attention. Call this lesson: “Names can be 
deceiving.” Not every one looks like he’s been sewer-crawling, not to mention that sewers 
aren’t always waist-deep in waste water. I’ve seen a lot of Sewer Rats scrounge their gear 
out of dumpsters when they need something to work the Obfuscate over. Some like to 
fudge their clothes in addition to their faces; I know one Nos who liked to show up 
wearing a tux. Point of order, kiddies - 
if you think it’s fun to sneak around in your 
altogether and “dress” yourself with Mask of a Thousand Faces, I’ve got one word for you: 
Cameras! Do you really want to chance that your best girl/guy is going to find out a) that 
you look like road pizza outta the suit, and b) that your puss is less than you’ve been 
making it out to be? Besides, the heart attack that your average schmoe will have when 
he gets a load of you in your deathday suit will not endear Hizzoner to you. 


Toreador - 
Gawd, here’s the real fashion parade! Kids, do yourselves a favor and 
don’t ever get between two preeners who are trying to one-up each other that night. If 
you really want to watch the fur fly, watch two poseurs show up in the same outfit. I ran 
that scam for a costume ball - 
two cats wearing the same Scarlett O’Hara dress, and did 
they ever get into it. Poor Princey-poo got hauled into the discussion, which put him on 
the hot seat since he owed favors to one’s sire and the other was a primogen. Anyway, your 
average artistes eithergofor the whole “back in black” with silver jewelry, or they stumble 
out of the studio in a shirt they were probably using for the drop-cloth. I’ve seen a few 
going for the Romantic look - 
poofy shirts, velvet vests, general ethereal look. Too bad 
that swooning has gone out ofstyle; most of these twits would improve the Elysium if they 
spent it unconscious. Overall, when in doubt, go for class over trash. 
Now I’ve been told that all new Tremere do not in fact receive black capes, pentacle 
pendants and canes when they get initiated. Horse shit - 
they must be, because they 
can’t d 
be that inept at accessorizing. Do they wear those pointy hats with stars on them 
when they’re working wizardly wonders in the chantry? Let’s start with the pentacle/ 
pentagram/prettystar. Oh, please, there have got to be other mystic symbols youcanwave 
around to freakout the Bible-thumpers. I mean, there’s that wonderful Seal of Solomon 
(which actually comes in handy should you encounter a wandering demon), the Eye of 
Horus, Tarot cards (one of the few warlocks I can actually stand wears the Magician) - 
even crystals, if you feel like showing off how young you are. Then there’s those canes - 
carry a sword cane only if you can use it, bubeleh. Most of the nasties who give you reason 
to carry one of those will make ground round out of you while you’re still trying to figure 
out how to make the button work. And last, but not least, the cape: Skip it. Wanna slash 
apart your aura of nocturnal majesty?Try answering the question, “So, are you in a play?” 
with some degree of dignity. It’s the same argument with regard to the all-blackensemble. 
Ventrue- Wow. If they’ve got money, it shows. The best Ventrue wear clothes that 
not only look good (whatever it is and for whatever occasion), but which compliment 
them and should put their personal shoppers at the top of all the socialite lists. If they were 
royalty, they still have their old crowns and robes of state (cedar storage, please, unless 
you get a buzz on mothballs). Unfortunately, if you spill something on Hizzoner, you’d 
best sell all your worldly goods and hope that the stain is dry-cleanable. If they don’t have 
the money, they at least have the taste to pull a pretty good act (“Hey, wasn’t that your 
primogen I spotted at the Off-Fifth outlet?”). Too bad taste and money don’t always go 
together. Nothing can make you wince like a nouveau-rick Ventrue trying to out- 
Toreador a Toreador. 
And now, last but not least, all you poor little bloodlorn readers: Let your Mommy 
dress you, especially if you’re saddled with a Toreador. Some won’t give a shit how you 
look, just so long as you’re there and you do your job. Ventrue, Tremere, anyone who’s 
into business will probably insist you wear a clean shirt and tie, at the least (if you can’t 
afford the dry-cleaning, give these folks a miss). Malks may do anything from putting 
curlers in your hair to making you wear long sleeves in the dead of summer to hide the 
“accidental” cuts. But the Toreador are a whole other case. Something about how the 
hired help should not outshine the mistress. Pity the poor secretary disfigured by her 
mistress to ensure that Madame would always get picked for the kickball team first. 
That’s all for now, chicas. Check your flies before you get to the door, and take care 
until next time. 


PRONOUNCFMFNTS EROM 
ON HIGH 
by the Mind’s Eye Theatre developer 
It’s time onceagainfor Cynthia tosay herpiece on thestate of liere-actiongaming 
and Mind’s Eye Theatre. This time around, she giwes you the skinny on 
incorporating the ewents of White Wolfs table-top World of Darkness books into 
your Mind’s Eye games. Basically, this column is the definitiwe guide un what you 
hawe to do with information you don’t hawe to use unless you want to. This advice 
stands for table-top material, but it’s ewen m e  applicable to live-action play. 
WHITE 
WOLE 
CONTINUITYAND 
‘You 
Recently, with the changes to the story lines that drive the White Wolf table- 
top books, there’s been a great hue and cry from Mind’s Eye Theatre Storytellers 
and players, and a bigger one is anticipated. Every time a table-top book advances 
the meta-story of one of our games, we hear, “Hey, do we have to do that?!” 
The short answer is, no, it’s your game. Now go have fun. 
Too short? All right, here’s the more detailed answer: 
There are grand story-arcs in the various game lines. Some are coming to 
smashing ends, some are just beginning, and others are getting a jump-start that 
sends them off the deep end in their various “Year of the Reckoning” books. In part, 
these arcs help focus the books and build momentum to carry things forward. Our 
own real world isn’t static, and neither is the World of Darkness. Things change, 
and not necessarily for the better. Even as table-top games come and go, the stories 
march ever, ever on. 
After all, remember why a Storyteller sits around beating her head against the 
wall trying to think up new things for the players to do - 
she’s telling stories. A 
story-arc is but one more story out of the thousands that populate the World of 
Darkness. These arcs, however, are not scripts. In the end, the choice of whether 
to deal with the fallout or backlash of a particular story thread is the Storyteller’s. 
If you don’t want to incorporate the various arcs into your plot lines, there’s 
nothing wrong with that. We’re not going to bring the mountain in to beat your 
game into line. If you want Stygia to be standing in the deadlands (what’s this!) or 
the Camarilla Malkavians to miss the “fun” of Dementation, that’s up to you. You 
know what makes your game tick and what would take a sledgehammer to it. Just 
make sure your players know that you’re running in a “nonstandard direction, and 
that they’re aware of all that comes with doing so (as in, “No, you can’t have that 
new Discipline - 
we’re running a different scenario.”). 
Now if you do decide to go with the grand arc, you have a number of options. 
You may choose to throw your players in the middle of things (starting with the 
evacuation of Stygia or the Sixth Great Maelstrom, for instance), or to let events 
come to them (Stygian refugees show up at the door of their Necropolis). You may 
choose the “pond ripple” effect (in the wake of High King David’s disappearance, 
the throne factions start pressuring local nobles to pick sides), or the “home-front” 
PBONOUNCEMENTS 
EBOM O N  H I ~ H  


s 
e 
idea (under the fist of a Morwenist duke, the Eiluneds and commoners find 
common cause). 
Or throw your players a curve. If you’re running a game full of players who 
know White Wolf “canon” backward and forward, pull a fast one on them. Start 
sending Malkavian Narrator characters into the game professing that they’re no 
longer able to command men’s minds. All they can do is spread their madness like 
a contagion. Your characters may know that only Sabbat Malkavians can do what 
these newcomers are claiming, but the players will probably have heard of the 
recent changes to Vampire: The Masquerade andLaws of the Night. But, say you 
aren’t incorporating those changes into your game at all, and these newcomers are 
the forefront of a bold Sabbat incursion. By playing with expectations and 
changing the “canon” in your game, you make your game that much more exciting 
and dynamic. Mix up the information we give you, play around with it, and give 
the players something they don’t expect. Do whatever works to make your stories 
better and keep your players happy. 
And now, as always, the refrain (sing along, friends): “Whatever you do, 
however you do it, it’s your game. Now go have fun.” 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  
e 


A PLACF EOR FVFR’YTHINCj 
by Peter Woodworth 
It’s that time again fur an illustrative piece of MET-inspired fiction. This 
piece comes in from Peter Woodworth, who’s made a name fur himself Wn’ting 
Mind’s Eye Theatre material such as The Shining Host as well as pieces of 
h w s  of the Wyld West and the most recent version of h w s  of the Night. 
Now, Pete (a die-hard Changeling fan) shows that he can write fiction as well 
asgamespeak, with this takshowinghowewen themost thin, unathkticslwghcan 
keep pace with the most dangerous creatures of the night. As long as ewerything 
goes according to plan.. . . 
“Mister Frost! Mister Frost!” 
The sound of the children’s voices wasn’t what made Mr. Frost look up from his 
well-thumbed paperback to glare over the thick glass of the main display case. Rather, 
it was the harsh sound of the front door slamming behind the children as they came that, 
in turn, caused the antique bronze chimes he had neatly tied to the top of the door to 
jangle discordantly instead of chiming in their usual harmony. 
If there was anything at all that made Mr. Frost upset - 
and not many things in 
life had received this honor- it was witnessing an item being misused. That was simply 
unacceptable, and he elaborated this opinion at great length to anyone around him who 
had the misfortune to be caught abusing a possession of theirs in such a fashion. It was 
precisely this habit of his, in fact, which had earned his tiny curiosity shop a reputation 
for.. . eccentricity among the city’s antiques and collectibles crowd, a reputation which 
served to keep away the more “respectable” collectors - 
at least when they thought 
anyone was watching them, that is. 
Not that Mr. Frost cared for such petty matters of public esteem. Customers who 
needed him came to him, and that sort of business had always been more than enough 
to keep the shop in the black and fund his annual excursions to London and Cairo. 
Besides, as these children had proven ably, the bulk of his transactions were with 
another sort of customer entirely. 
They had come to him the night before, just as he had been about to close the store 
for the night, looking ten times more bedraggled and positively frantic. It had taken him 
several minutes to calm the five children down, but when he finally heard their story, 
it had set even his chill blood to boiling. According to the eldest, a satyr childling 
named Jesse, the short version of their adventure went something like this: 
The five of them had snuckout of their houses and been roaming around after dark, 
when they decided it would be fun to go and see the old abandoned Jervais Mansion. 
Of course, Mr. Frost knew of the place himself - 
after all, no fae could grow up in this 
townwithout hearing tales about the “haunted house” that stood like adamnedsentinel 
at the outer edge of the Garden District. The little motley had nerved themselves up 
with flashlights and a couple of good ghost stories, then gone over to the house to poke 
in the closets and raise some spooks. 
Nervous and giggling as they were, they hadn’t seen any obvious ghosts as they 
approached, but the laughter had quickly faded when they entered the house itself. 
There was precious little dust for an “abandoned” house, and going from room to room, 


the walls, even laid into the kitchen tile. A lot of the symbols looked new, but some 
looked like they’d been there for a long time, painted in faded paint or scuffed over by 
the marks of many feet. Most of the furniture was gone, but every room had a sinister- 
looking ebony statue crouching in at least one comer, watching them with narrow eyes. 
There were bookcases too, piled high with strange black books and objects, from tiny 
silver knives to big crystal balls and ominously human-looking skulls. They were all 
growing more scared as they went, but they were also convinced (as only children can 
be) that this place was just a “regular old haunted house,” so they were in no real danger. 
Convinced, that is, until they finally entered the back pantry by the cellar. 
There they found chairs, a pile of new magazines, a walkie-talkie, a half-empty cup 
of soda and a shiny pistol staring at them forlornly from where it lay on top of a glossy 
new Time magazine. Despite the heat, there was still ice in the cup, as if it had been left 
only a short time ago, and the sight of the gun brought the whole message home in a 
way the other, more exotic objects couldn’t: There are peopk in this house. Red peopk, 
andred badpeopkat that. Andifthey’remtheremw, then youcan bet they’llbe backsoon. 
In fact, water was running behind a door not far away, meaning that the someone who 
owned the gun was probably in the bathroom, bound to return any second. 
Trembling with fear, the children &wore that they had been about to go home 
when they heard voices in the basement. Chanting, to be precise. The children all 
lookedembmassed at this part of the story. Even with such obvious danger staring them 
in the face, such noises were too much to resist investigating, especially in a haunted 
house like the Jervais place. But when they went down the stairs they saw not some 
collection of innocent bed-sheeted specters, but a group of 12 pale, dark-robed figures 
performing what even children could see was some sort of dark ritual. 
Investigating was Mistake Number One. 
Mistake Number Two came when one of them (no one would remember who) 
screamed at the sight. The robed figures had turned immediately, baring wicked fangs 
and chasing the children out of the building hollering all manner of vile curses. The 
children had run as fast as they could, leaping fences and ducking under hedges to get 
away, but even once they were out of range, the monsters called after them. They yelled 
that the children had already been caught by their spells, that there was nowhere they 
would be safe now. The monsters called the children by name to show the truth behind 
these threats, then promised to drink their blood and inflict other hideous forms of 
revenge. 
Now the children were too scared to go to the Duke, and they had heard there was 
only one other person to turn to insuch asituation, one personwhocouldset everything 
right -for a tidy fee, that is. Mr. Frost had graciously accepted that compliment, asked 
them each to return the next morning with an item they valued and sent them on their 
way once he reassured them that daylight would render the monsters powerless for the 
time being. Now here they had returned. 
“Mister Frost,” Jesse panted, her disheveled hair glowing like banked embers. 
“We.. . we have.. .” She trailed off, gulping air like a landed catfish. Mr. Frost’s scowl 
deepened. A person’s body was her ultimate possession, after all, and seeing such a 
pretty one so mistreated didnothing for his disposition. He swallowed hisdistaste as best 
he could, though. These children were badly frightened, and thus such minor lapses 
were excusable. This time, anyway. 


“Hush, child,” Mr. Frost murmured, not unkindly, slipping a bookmark into the 
battered spine of Needful Things and sliding out from behind the counter with the 
curiously eerie grace the sluaghwere known for. He steppedlightly to the front door and 
pulled down the shade, pausing only to turn the deadbolt and change the store sign over 
to “Closed.” Suitably arranged, he returned to his high stool. The wide eyes of the young 
motley followed him intently all the while, the payments he’d asked them to bring 
clutched tightly in five pairs of hands. He knitted his pale, slender fingers - 
so like the 
talons of a hunting bird, or so many customers had noticed - 
together under his chin, 
fixed his deep obsidian eyes on them and began to close the deal he had bartered with 
them only the night before. 
“School?” 
“We played hooky.” 
“I’ll see what I can do about that. What have you brought me?“ 
Jesse, whose full fae name was Jesselayth, turned to the other children and looked 
at them pleadingly, her own hand closed tightly around something Mr. Frost couldn’t 
quite make out. “Guys. ..” 
Michael, a little eshu boy, came forward first, looking up at Mr. Frost with calm 
green eyes. ‘‘I got a book for you,” he said, his initial hesitation disappearing as his kith 
confidence with the spoken word reasserted itself. “It’s an old one that I got from the 
library last year. Mrs. Jacobs said I could keep it cause they were gonna throw it out 
anyway, so I took it home. It’s really cool and it’s got all kindsa wicked gross pictures 
in it, too.’’ He produced a tattered, coverless paperback whose yellowing title page 
proclaimed it Dr. Rando’s Amazing World ofthe Occult and Bizarre! Mr. Frost picked it 
up, careful not to damage it, and began flipping through the pages. “There’s a picture 
of a guy’s cut-off head in the middle,” Michael added helpfully. 
“Thank you, Michael,” Mr. Frost said with a grave nod of his head, concealing a 
smile. He turned to the others. “What else do you have?” 
“I found this in my dad’s closet next to his spaceship,” ventured Kenny, the tow- 
haired pooka boy, putting a box on the counter. It was a build-it-yourself model car kit, 
seemingly untouched despite the words “Made in the USA 1959” printed on one side. 
“He said I could have it, so I took it.” Kenny scratched his nose nervously, setting his 
thin whiskers and heavy cheeks shaking in tandem. “It’s pretty new though, so I don’t 
think it’s worth anything.” 
Mr. Frost waved the concern away, ideas for the kit’s use already spinning in his 
mind. “You’re a born trader, my boy. This will do fine.” The pooka’s ears twitched with 
pride at the compliment. “What else?” 
A pile of black feathers - 
which once might have been acrow but could now only 
charitably be called a mess -slapped down on the counter with a wet sqoosh. ‘‘I was 
saving it for lunch, but you can have it.” Jacque (pronounced “Jock” by anyone who 
wanted to avoid a giant wedgie or killer Indian bum) grinned his irregular shark‘s smile 
up at Mr. Frost. His eyes dared a refined gentleman like Mr. Frost to touch such a gross 
thing without throwing up, dared him in the leering fashion even the smallest redcaps 
learn. 
“Delightful,” Mr. Frost declared, sweeping the wrecked carcass up to inspect it. ‘‘I 
know just the person who might make some use of this item.” He looked carefully from 
child to child, seeing that hope had started to dawn on their faces. Excellent. Still, he 
had a part to play, and he stuck to it. “Thii can’t be all of it, can it?” 


broach in a silver setting lay poised on her palm. “My mom gave this to me when I was 
really little,” she said quietly. “It’s fake, but it’s really pretty, and it’s always brought me 
good luck.” She seemed near tears but laid the broach on the counter anyway, drawing 
her mouth in a thin, strong line. “Is it good enough?” All the children looked to Mr. 
Frost, crossing their fingers. 
She’U be a strung one, Mr. Frost thought with admiration. He took the broach and 
examined it gravely. A grand idea was already forming in his mind, but it was lacking 
one crucial piece. He hoped the last offering would complete the set. “Have no fear, 
young Jesse. It shall not be wasted. Thank you.” The children all breathed relief 
simultaneously. He raised one final speculative eyebrow. “Anything else!” 
“Yes, Mister Fross,” came the tiny, whispered reply. Peep stepped forward, his 
oversized dark eyes and mousy mop of hair a sharp contrast to his pale skin. Easily the 
youngest, the little sluagh had to stand on his toes just to reach the countertop, and Mr. 
Frost suspected that the boy must’ve been carried by someone during the getaway the 
night before. Nonetheless, he seemed to fit in with the others just fine. “I rescued these 
from the post office last spring. It was really cold in there, and I got scared.” With great 
care, the boy slid a folded sheet of white paper across the glass top. “Are they okay?” 
Mr. Frost picked up the sheet, on which were stuck five brightly colored butterfly 
stamps. He frowned for a moment, then a slight smile flickered across his lips like a 
shadow at the edge of candlelight. “They’re perfect, child. Just perfect. And you’re very 
brave.” 
Mr. Frost sat for a moment more in silence, then rose to his feet, pulling down his 
blackgreatcoat and carefully sweeping each item into a pocket. “Come,children. I shall 
take care of your monster problem for you, but there are many things I need to do, and 
the day is short. Let’s go.” 
As they followed the enigmatic sluagh out into the early morning light, Kenny 
turned to Jesse and said, with no small amount of admiration, “I think he’s gonna get 
us all killed after all.” 
“Come on, Kenny,” Jesse said, tugging the pooka along. 
“I can’t believe we’re in a TV studio!” Jesse exclaimed. 
The office was small but colorful, its walls slathered in garish movie posters and 
shelves teeming with odd knickknacks, and the children gaped comically at the array 
of memorabilia before them. Old movie posters from fifties B-movies vied with pictures 
of alleged Bigfoot tracks and blown-up reproductions offamous UFO photos. Mr. Frost’s 
store and its prized collectibles were one thing, but this collection was far more 
contemporary and thus struck a more active nerve. Mr. Frost didn’t care one way or 
another - 
it was the office’s occupant, Emory Dodge, they’d come to see. 
Dodge rose from his rolling chair, extending a hand across the desk with a wide 
smile for his old contact, sparing a slightly puzzled but affable expression for the group 
of children Frost brought with him. The pooka’s loud yellow blazer and neon green tie 
went well with the decor, though they would’ve staggered sensible fashion designers 
from miles away against any other backdrop. Mr. Frost could see where the makeup had 
been applied to remove the natural dark circles under the man’s eyes, the only touch 
of the pooka’sraccoon nature that mortals could see. To him and the children, ofcourse, 
the bandit-mask marks shone through gloriously, along with the furry ears and a tiny 
* 
* 
* 


tail emerging from a tasteful slit in the back of his deep purple pants. “Frosty, you old 
cheapskate, how’re you doing? What brings you to my neck of the woods? Love troubles 
again?” He gestured to the children and smiled engagingly. “And what’s with the senior 
citizen brigade here? Day off at the old folk‘s home?“ The children giggled. 
Mr. Frost did not smile back. “Nothing of the sort.” He put his arm around Jesse. 
“These children have a story I want you to tape for this Friday’s episode of your 
program.” He gestured to the large Weekly Weirdness News poster behind Dodge’s desk. 
‘‘I can assure you, your audience will absolutely adore it.” He smirkedknowingly. “It has 
everything good tabloid television needs: children in distress, monsters on the loose, 
even a local angle. Everything.” 
Dodge looked politely skeptical. “I’d love to help you, Frosty,” he began, “and I’m 
sure their story is absolutely fascinating, but the viewers of Weekly Weirdness News are 
a very intellectual, very discerning market. Unless these children have something really 
different to say, I’m afraid we have a lot of other segments ready to air along those lines 
already. I don’t know about ...” 
Mr. Frost had reached into his jacket as Dodge began to trail off into the vague 
excuses of the entertainment industry, producing the battered occult book Michael had 
given to him earlier. Wordlessly, he extended it to the young reporter. Dodge fell silent 
immediately, his eyes goggling comically at the sight of it. He snatched the book away 
and began thumbing through it eagerly, immediately absorbed. “Ofcourse,” began Mr. 
Frost with false hesitation, “if you still feel that this story isn’t worth your time, I could 
take them elsewhere.. .” 
Dodge’s head snapped up, his eyes darting from ashelf of similar old-fashioned pulp 
occult books behind his desk to the other changelings before him. 
“Did I say we had a lot of other segments like this already? I meant to say that this 
is just what we needed right now!” He looked back down at the book with loving eyes. 
“For an original Dr. Rando, you can host the show yourselves!” 
The lean sluagh shook his head. “That won’t be necessary, but if you could take 
them back to do the taping today, I’d much appreciate it. I’ll be back for them later, after 
I finish running some errands. Agreed?” Dodge merely nodded absently and began 
herding the children out of the room before him, still gazing raptly at the faded text 
before him. The kids looked back worriedly at Mr. Frost as they left, but he merely 
smiled at them. “Don’t worry,” he mouthed, “I’ll return when my work is done. I 
Mr. Frost gritted his teeth as he approached his next stop, stepping between rising 
steel beams and trying to block out the high-pitched wailing of power tools rending the 
air around him. He sought out the changeling he knew was hidden among the human 
workers: Kincaid, a nocker who drew his Glamour from transforming vacant lots into 
gleaming houses and crumbling mansions into glittering masterpieces. He’d traded 
Kincaid a set of old-fashioned mason’s tools and a few chimerical knickknacks before, 
and he knew the nocker to be fair, if decidedly obstinate in the worst times. 
The negotiations were short, as they always are with nockers. Frost presented the 
vintage model kit Kenny had brought him and a black-and-white picture of the Jervais 
house that he had taken soon after the kids had left his store the night before. The sluagh 
offered the former to Kincaid in exchange for a promise to accept a contract to restore 
the latter pro bono -on behalf of the city’s Historical Preservation Society, of course. 


guarantee a list of wealthy clients well into the new millennium. 
“Where’d you get this?” Kincaid said, gesturing gently with the model kit box. 
“It came through the shop earlier this week,” Frost whispered back calmly, hoping 
the nocker could make out the words over the din of construction. “Why? Is it 
valuable ?” 
“Not at all, Frost,” Kincaid said, arching a sardonic eyebrow. “Not to someone 
who’s been looking for a model from this series made in this year to complete a life- 
spanning collection. Hardly worth the concrete foundation under our feet.” 
The flat, poured base chd look a little uneven to Frost, but he neglected to mention 
it in deference to Kincaid’s feelings. 
“Sure, I’ll do the job,” Kincaid shouted over the noise at last, his rough hands 
caressing the smooth contours of the box like a lover’s curves. “But are you really sure 
about this? You’re talking about the old Jervais place, right? I haven’t heard anything 
about the city handing out a contract on it.” 
“That’s because it hasn’t been issued yet,” countered Mr. Frost. “The day’s still 
young. I’ll call you with the specifics tomorrow morning.” 
* 
* 
* 
After punishing his rarefied senses at the construction site, Mr. Frost allowed 
himself a moment to revel in the quiet, subdued atmosphere of the Baroness’s salon. He 
then announced himself politely to the pleasant kinain girl behind the counter and 
took stock of his surroundings. 
Ethereal Fashions was the kind of upscale clothing store that appeared more like 
a private residence than a place of business, with the clothes tastefully displayed off to 
the side and small tables set for serving tea instead of crude, glaring metal racks and 
couches for waiting husbands and boyfriends. Mr. Frost - 
seldom a caller in this part 
of town-was still admiring the tasteful decor when the kinain reappeared to usher him 
into the back of the store for an audience with the Baroness. 
The Baroness appeared as he had always known her: a boggan of uncommon grace 
dressed in a simple blue-satin outfit that nonetheless teased out every aspect of her 
beauty. She was still bent over a fine silk dress with a needle in one hand and a spool 
of thread in the other when he coughed softly to announce himself. Even at court, she 
seldom left her knitting far from her hands, always altering some item or weaving 
another as she entertained guests or weighed cases brought before her. 
This scene was a familiar one to Frost. He’d seen the beginnings of this particular 
dress at court two weeks before, when it was nothing more than a rough sketch, a few 
bolts of fabric and a dream borne on the Baroness’s hands. Now, it was amarvel in itself, 
an innocent wish captured in cream-colored silk and fine silver thread. But even as Mr. 
Frost entered, the Baroness threw away her needle in despair, as if facing a puzzle she 
simply couldn’t solve. Hearing him approach, the Baroness looked up and smiled 
thinly, the frustration evident at the comers of her lips. 
“My Lady Rhiannon,” Mr. Frost said, nodding slightly. 
“Come and be welcome, Cyrus Frost,”she replied, waving his politeness away. She 
Mr. Frost looked innocent. “Trouble?” 
looked down at the dress and sighed. “Accept my apologies for my abruptness.” 


consequence.” She appraised him with her eyes. “Now, why have you asked for an 
audience on such short notice? I hadn’t thought of you as the type who needed favors 
from others, Cyrus.” 
“As D h  would have it, that is just what I require, Lady Rhiannon,” Mr. Frost 
began humbly, producing a copy of the picture he had shown to Kincaid not half an hour 
earlier. ‘‘I know you hold sway over the city’s Historical Preservation Society, Lady, and 
I would like to ask you to use your influence over that body to have this building claimed 
and restored.” 
Lady Rhiannon looked sharply at him. “And why should we do that?” 
“The building is abandoned, and in dire need of repair before it-” 
The comely boggan shook her head. “That much is already plain. Do not toy with 
me, Frost. You have as much interest in old buildings as I do in polyester culottes. We 
both know the lease on the Jervais house has been held in trust for dozens years longer 
than we’ve been alive, even if the.. . current owners have decided to let it go a bit.” 
Rhiannon looked as if she was about to stop speaking, then shrugged resignedly. “I’ll be 
plain with you - 
it’s an absolute tragedy what they’ve allowed that house to become, 
and we at the Society have been trying to get our hands on the mansion since even 
before I took over as chair. However, we’ve never been able to get past the paperwork 
process with the owners and their lawyers, city association or not. What makes you so 
sure that situation would begin to change now?” 
“Call it a hunch,” Mr. Frost insisted. “It will work, my lady, believe me.” 
“Even if I do, why should I assume the headache right now?” In response, Mr. Frost 
delved into his outside pocket and produced the broach Jesse had given him, tumbling 
it across his palm to twinkle in the store’s muted lights. The Baroness lifted an eyebrow. 
“A bribe? With costume jewelry? Oh, really, Cyrus.” 
“Not a bribe, Lady Rhiannon,” said Mr. Frost persuasively, rolling the pearls slowly 
in his fingers. “No, think of it as gesture of good faith, a way of compensating you for 
assuming the inconvenience of pursuing the matter with the Jervais house on my 
behalf.” He smiled ever so slightly. “I believe the Society’s monthly meeting is due any 
day now, is it not?”The Baroness nodded cautiously. “How fortuitous. Then please, take 
this little token,” he pressed the broach into her palm, “and accept my gratitude.” He 
paused for just a heartbeat. ‘‘I believe it might just complete the image you’re looking 
for with that dress, if I may say so.” 
Surprised, Baroness Rhiannon compared the broach to the dress, at first hesi- 
tantly, then with more interest. She clucked her tongue, held them both up to the light, 
then nodded almost imperceptibly and turned back to the waiting sluagh, a bemused 
lookon her face. “Alright, Cyrus, I’ll call the Society and bring it up with them tonight. 
If anything comes of it, I’ll let you know. I don’t know what your interest in this matter 
is - 
and frankly I’m not sure if I want to - 
but restoring that house would truly be a 
beautiful deed, a blessing to kith and kinain alike. So I will take it on.. . faith that your 
intentions are noble.” 
Mr. Frost looked deadly serious. “You have my word on it, Lady Rhiannon.” 
She held his gaze a moment longer, then nodded once more. “Then go in peace, 
Cyrus Frost. I only hope your hunch is as impeccable as your fashion sense.” Mr. Frost 
merely smiled in response and rose to leave. He had not yet crossed the threshold, 
however, when the Baroness called after him. 


‘‘I feel I should warn you, Cyrus. Our budget has been very tight this year. Even if 
we did succeed, I don’t know that we have the means to order such an extensive 
restoration.” 
Mr. Frost turned, the grin on his face spreading like crystals on an icy window. “As 
it turns out, My Lady Rhiannon, I believe I know just the man for the job.” 
* 
* 
* 
The last meeting of the day was nearly as short as the time spent with the nocker, 
for Mr. Frost cared even less to meet with this last contact than he did to spend time 
negotiating with a hard case like Kincaid. He simply waited outside the old mausoleum 
in which the contact slept until the last rays of daylight were dying on the horizon, 
positioned himself carefully in front of the door and knocked three times briskly on the 
heavy marble. A shuffling arose from within, and the marble groaned aside a few inches. 
Frost could see no more than the pale, delicate curve of the tomb‘s inhabitant’s cheek. 
“Some dream comes to tempt me,” the bored, cultured and very old voice said 
quietly from within. “It wants something. What does it want?” 
“I need the address of one of your kind,” Mr. Frost said very carefully, making sure 
to keep his voice respectful and calm. “More specifically, I need you to deliver 
something to that one before the night gets under way.” 
“What insight does this dream bring me?” the voice asked in smooth, even tones. 
“Your word first,” Frost whispered, knowing he played a dangerous game. The 
seductive caress of Banality already tickled his skin like cold water. 
“And why shouldn’t I just wake from this dream?” the voice said, lowering in 
timbre and humming with thinly repressed anger. “And in waking, dream it no more.” 
The shape within stepped forward, revealing a silken fall of black hair before Frost 
stepped aside. The last, dying rays of sunlight on the western horizon (which Frost’s 
shadow had been blocking off) fell into the tomb. The figure inside made no sound, but 
darted back instantly. Frost stepped back into place. 
“I’ll dream a while longer,” the voice said tightly, after a very long, tense pause. 
“Tell of your insight. I will indulge the dream its message.” 


“Best to see for yourself,” Frost said, handing the ruined carcass of Jacque’s crow 
(which he was all too glad to remove from his unlined coat pocket) in through the 
mausoleum door. 
“A harbinger.. .” the voice said in an odd mixture ofconfusion and interest. “I have 
not eyed the fall of a sparrow in some time.” The voice fell silent a moment, and frost 
heard sickening sounds of tearing and scraping that finally resulted in the figure within 
the tomb gasping in undisguised shock. 
“The dream tells of dire portents.. .” the creature inside said. “Castles falling to 
ruin ... warring kingdo ms... times of fire ... a trial ... the birth of a star... a hunt for 
arrogant usurpers.. .” 
“So you’ll deliver my message?” Frost asked as the voice trailed off. He held out a 
bulging manila envelope, sealed and marked with only a name and a title of nobility. 
“Time is of the essence.” 
Hysterical laughter erupted from within the tomb, and Frost had to force himself 
not to take a step back. Tides of Banality surged and swelled around him. 
“I’ll deliver it,” the voice whispered, still laughing. “Now, fill me with your 
portent.” 
Frost saw a pale, perfect hand emerge from the tomb, and he put the envelope into 
it. 
“And Frost,” the voice said, banishing all traces of mirth as quickly as blowing out 
a cand’.?. Frost looked up into a pair of eyes that had never seen the sun in all of Frost’s 
long life. Frost stood pinned, like a bird before a viper. “Disturb not the sleeper again.” 
With that, the mausoleumdoor whisked shut, and Frost stood alone. All too happy 
to comply with the last wish, the gaunt sluagh walked away, hoping that a mad being’s 
whim would not ruin an otherwise perfectly orchestrated day. 
* 
* 
* 
“Package for you, sir,” the retainer whispered, scuttling into the presence of his 
undead master. “The Seer in the lowlands just dropped it off. He didn’t say what it is.” 
“The Seer, eh?” Prince Marcel asked with languid curiosity. “Bring it here.” He 
examined the plain manila package, the spidery formal handwriting on the front clearly 
marking it as intended for him alone; four bright butterfly stamps the only splash of 
color. Definitely the Seer’s work, he thought with a mental sigh. The stamps hadn’t even 
been postmarked. Then again, the Seer had never really understood the contrivances 
of modem bureaucracy. 
Waving the butler away offhandedly, he slit the package open with sharpened 
fingemails. A video cassette marked “Weekly Weirdness News Show 149” fell out, 
along with a small, handwritten note in the same old-fashioned script that graced the 
envelope the package had come in. 
He skimmed the note distractedly at first, then read it again with greater 
concentration. The language of the note betrayed modem colloquialisms and patterns 
of thought vastly different from the Seer’s timeless linguistic flavor. All of the prince’s 
earlier good humor faded during the third reading, replaced by a widening scowl as 
dangerous as any fault line. By the time he had finished his fifth reading, any vestigial 
pretense of humanity was long gone, the ashen hue of his undead state unmistakably 
apparent in his rage. It was all he could do to fight the urge to twist the tape into plastic 
ribbons as he slid it into the VCR. He did not want to believe what he had just read, 
but he could not take the chance that it might actually be serious as opposed to one very 
sic!<, very unfunny joke. 


shredded into thin strips of wood. With a bestial shout, the prince overturned his 
expensive steel desk in one fluid motion. At the sound of the crash, the butler came 
scurrying in. 
“Is everything all right, milord?” he asked as obsequiously as he could manage, 
eyeing the upended desk nervously. “Shall I call the guards?” 
Marcel glared at him without recognition for a long moment - 
a killing fury 
clouding his wide almost feral eyes. The butler knew his death was staring him in the 
face. He closed his own eyes, waiting, but when an agonizing amount of time passed and 
he remained untouched, he cautiously opened them again. Marcel was still perched in 
his ruined chair, his body taut, his eyes burning. The near-mindless rage of moments ago 
had passed, replaced instead with an intense, focused look of hatred. When he spoke, 
the effort to remain calm merely punctuated every syllable with barely restrained 
malice. 
‘‘I wish. To see. The Tremere. And the Seer. Bring them. All of them.” 
The retainer hesitated. “My.. . my lord?” 
“Now!” 
Jesse got the envelope in the mail the next morning, the butterfly stamp on it 
unmarked by any post office marker. Even though she had found it in her room, it was 
addressed to all the others too. So even though she was dying to know what was in it, 
she waited until she could assemble them all before she opened it. The motley sat 
around on the floor of her parent’s attic, hushed and waiting. Except for the time they 
spent in the studio with Dodge, they’d all been too scared to do much of anything 
yesterday, instead following Mr. Frost’s instructions andstaying home. At that age, such 
time - 
especially time spent looking out for monsters - 
seemed like an eternity, and 
they were all anxious. If this letter was good news, it was possibly their only chance to 
avoid spending every day like that, and they all felt it. Jesse drew out a piece of paper 
covered in Mr. Frost’s long, spidery handwriting. 
* 
* 
* 


the words. 
“Shhh, you dummy, I’m reading!” Jesse hushed him. The others glared appropri- 
ately until Michael stopped fidgeting. “Mr. Frost says hi to everyone,” she began, 
picking up speed asshe went, “and he wants us to know that it’s safe to go outside again.” 
There was an audible sigh of relief. “He says that the monsters have been taken away, 
and that we don’t have to worry about them ever bothering us again, or we can tell him 
and he’ll make sure that their.. . their.. . prince - 
that’s weird - 
will get really mad 
at them and send them away forever and ever.” 
“Their prince?” Jacque asked, not understanding. 
Jesse shrugged. “Do I look like I know what monsters do? Maybe it’s another kind 
of noble we don’t know about. Anyway, he says to let him know if absolutely anything 
else happens with those monsters, ever, even just in our dreams and stuff.” 
“Nah, 
I don’t think I will,” Kenny said, rolling his eyes. 
“Dork.” Jesse stuck out her tongue. “He does say, though, that we’re not supposed 
to go near the old Jervais house, at least not for a while, cause its under ... reno... 
renner.. .” she looked for a word the younger kids would understand “They’re gonnabe 
rebuilding it, so it won’t be so scary anymore. The Baroness and some of the other 
grumps are fixing it. He says it’ll be all nice when it’s open again, and we’ll be invited 
to the first party there, even if it goes past our bedtimes.” 
“Yea! A party!” Peep whisper-giggled excitedly. 
“You’re not going, you’re too young,” Michael retorted. 
“Says who?” Peep bridled to his full three feet two. 
“Says me!” Michael replied, laughing. 
“Quiet, you guys, there’s still some left!” Jesse commanded. The others fell silent. 
She finished her reading in a silence more suited to a library than a motley of childlings. 
“He says in conch . . . to finish up, that he’s really sorry, but the show we did with Dodge 
won’t be on TV after all.” She silenced the protests with a look before they could start. 
“He says it was part of the plan to stop the monsters, but if they show it now, the 
monsters will be really mad, and they might try to come hurt us again no matter what. 
Dodge says we can come back any time and see the studio if we want, though.” 
“Well, that’s wonderful,” Kenny sighed sadly. “TV didn’t look like any fun 
anyway.” 
“Did he say anything else?” Michael asked hopefully. 
“Mister Frost says that if we ever need him again, we can just stop by his store any 
time, as long as we bring something to trade him.” She frowned. “He also says the 
Baroness thinks I’m going to like my Saining present when I see it.” Jesse shrugged. “He 
signed it, ‘Sincerely, Mister Frost.’” She grinned broadly. “Oh, cool! He has a P.S. at the 
bottom!” 
“What’s it say?” the others shouted in unison. 
“Mister Frost says we paid him too much for his services, so he saved the change 
“What change?“ Jacque asked, still looking confused. In response, Jesse turned the 
Two battered crow feathers drifted to the ground and came to rest between them. 
left over and sent it to us.” She looked up at the others, puzzled. “That’s all.” 
envelope upside down and shook it. 


LAWS OE ASCFNSION 
by Jess Heinig 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~~ 
Before you decide to either carry me around OTI 
- , 
your shoulders praising my name for including this 
material OT curse me to the pits ofthe darkest 
netherworldfur openinga whole new can of 
worms, let me explain. This article isn’t 
whatyouthinkitis. Notexactly, anyway. 7 
Just take this material in the spirit in which I I 
it’sintended,andnobodygets 
hurt. Besicks, 
Jess knows what he’s doing. He’s been play- 
ing both Mage and MET long enough w 
know that the demand is out there fur.. . 
A 
LIVE-ACTION 
M A ~ B S  
Oh yeah! The long-awaited live-action Mage material! More or less. 
sort of. 
Well, not really. 
Requests and submissions for MET Mage rules are among the most common 
type of mail I receive here at the desk of Mage-Central. Most everybody has a home 
version of live-action Mage, and I’ve got about eight billion copies in my desk here 
(it has an extradimensional space for that sort of thing). Even those who don’t take 
up the burden of building their own Mage material inevitably get around to asking 
“Why hasn’t White Wolf done this, especially given the incredible popularity and 
demand?” 
Given that White Wolf is, after all, a business and that we do like to make 
money, one would think that we’d have long ago published MET Mage materials. 
However, in our never-ending (and often frustrating) commitment to quality, we’ve 
left this project undeveloped for the time being. We haven’t, in fact, touched it with 
a 10-foot pole. 
THE PBOBLEMSWITH 
LIVE-ACTION 
M A ~ F  
Basically, Mage depends on several core concepts that are very difficult to 
translate accurately into live-action play. The big problem lies in maintaining a 
faithful image of the game while simultaneously making it playable. If it’s not Mage 
and it doesn’t have the themes of redemption, triumph, hubris and power, then it 
would be a misnomer and a disservice to slap a Mage label on it and try to sell it as 
such. Conversely, Mage’s powers and themes are so broad that they are extremely 
difficult to represent in live-action play. 
Since we have given thought to the problems of Mage, though, I’m going to lay 
out the typical problems, and then some possible solutions. Just remember that this 
article is in no way a license to allow mage characters into your games or a lower- 


circulation play-test version of True Magic rules. Consider this feature damage- 
control against pre-existing LARP mages you’ve already into your game. 
ALLTHB POWERINTHE 
UNIVERSE 
Perhaps the most pressing problem with live-action mages is the incredible 
flexibility of the table-top magical system. With the right control of the nine 
Spheres, a mage can do just about anything. That being the case, how does one 
translate this broad variety into live-action play? You need an impartial Narrator to 
determine what a mage can and can’t do, and having a Narrator for every mage player 
is just too unwieldy, even in games where the mage population is relatively low. 
Using an Effect-based system of established rotes is one idea, but it limits what 
mages can do and runs counter to the Mage philosophy of altering the universe 
according to your will. Given enough time and knowledge, mages are supposed to 
be able to perform unbelievable feats at the slightest of thoughts! A list of permissible 
Effects is like, well, a list of spells out of a game by that other company. 
THE PARADOX 
PROBLEM 
Paradox isn’t just a problem for mages, it’s a problem in games, too. Paradox 
tends to strike according to the resonance that a mage has picked up - 
weird events 
and happenings that mess around with her individual style of magic and intent. 
Obviously, forming such an intensely individualized threat requires Narrator inter- 
vention, and you’re back to the problem of having a Narrator to follow every player 
around. A point-based backlash system is possible, but it lacks the flexibility and 
randomness of true Paradox behavior. You could always make up Paradox backlashes 
on the spot, but the problem then becomes one of consistency and duration. Until 
the effect wears off (if it does), you would have to assign a Narrator to follow the 
character around to a.) make sure he’s roleplaying amage beset by such a n  effect, and 
b.) inform onlookers of what bizarre effect they see when the mage player neglects 
to do so. 
~ o c I ?  
WHAT ~ o c I ?  
Another typical problem for Mage LARPers lies in the use of foci. Although 
mages are encouraged to use foci in the tabletop game, many foci are just impractical 
as props for live-action. It won’t do to carry around a sword, a gun or a bone rattle 
(in public, even), so how does a mage player get a handle on foci? Item cards just lack 
the panache, although there isn’t much choice ofwhether or not to use them. Doing 
away with foci altogether deadens a lot of the game’s flavor. 
I TURNTHB 
BUILDINC~TO 
$LASS. ” 
Oh yeah. Need we mention the ‘‘I turn the vampire into a lawn chair” syndrome 
of True Magic’s flexibility? Frankly, when given time, a mage can pull off stunts that 
seriously screw with game continuity. It does little good to play in a mirror of your 
home city if that Marauder wannabe just reduced downtown to a sinkhole. Ifyou run 
the inevitable crossover, having a mage reduce the opposition to small heaps of 
stuffed toys gets tiresome very quickly. Managing high-end power is a real concern 
when Masters can rend the fabric of reality and then fold, spindle and mutilate 
anything in their way. 
66 
LAWS 01 ASCENSION 
I 


SYSTEMS 
As far as the systems for simulating magical Effects, Paradox and Foci g 
won’t even begin to take a stab at it. These areas are best left toyour house rules 
we come up with a workable system of our own. Any simulation we propost 
would be an invitation for such a never-ending enfilade of e-mail and letter 
we’d never forgive ourselves. Ifwe’re going to open ourselves up to that, we’ll roll the 
dice on a full-production, $15 Laws of Ascension book, thank you very much. 
More generally, however, we can give you an idea of how to simulate the rest 
of MET play where mages are concerned. We can give you how to build a mage, 
when to play R-P-S and what the various mage-only Traits might do. Again, these 
rules aren’t MET canon, but they’re a step in that direction. 
Most everybody out there has a few systems for simulating Mage. If you need a 
simple, quick-and-dirty way to simulate Arete, casting and so on, just try out the 
following guidelines: 
Create your mage character with seven primary Traits, five secondary and three 
tertiary. You get five Abilities and seven Backgrounds (Influence, AVU~LZT, 
Mentor, 
and so on). You get three Willpower Traits. 
You start with one Trait of Arete. When you perform an Effect, it requires a test 
with a Static difficulty determined by Sphere and level. You can use an Arete Trait 
for a retest, once per night per Trait. You can never have more levels in a Sphere than 
you have Arete Traits. Also, for each Arete Trait that you have, your maximum 
Traits in each Attribute category go up by one from the base nine for a supernatural 
human. Thus, with Arete one, you can have up to 10 Traits, while Arete five allows 
up to 14 Traits. 
You get five levels of Spheres, chosen from the Basic levels. You also get a free 
level in your Tradition Sphere, even if that Trait takes you to the Intermediate level. 
If you’re an Orphan, you just get a sixth Basic level in a Sphere of your choice. 
The difficulty for magic is typically the Effect level +4 Traits if it’s detectahle, 
+3 Traits if it’s not. Thus, using a Sense Forces (first level undetectable Effect) is 
difficulty 4, while a lightning bolt (Forces 3, definitely detectable and improbable) 
is difficulty 7. You can make a retest with an Ability if it’s appropriate to your 
paradigm and focus (using Linguistics if you’re a Hermetic mage speaking Enochian, 
or Do if you’re an Akashic Brother, for instance). 
Anytime you want to inflict aggravated damage or create something out of 
nothing, you must expend a Trait of Quintessence. You can also spend a Trait of 
Quintessence to lower a magical difficulty by one. You start with Quintessence 
Traits equal to your Avatar Background rating (bought as a normal Background for 
just this purpose), and you get more from Nodes or Tass (see the Mage book for 
details). 
Whenever you fail an Effect Test and the difficulty is twice your number of 
Traits or whenever you fail a retest on an Effect, you suffer Paradox. 
As a rule of thumb for combat, a level-two Sphere can inflict one level of 
damage, a level-three Sphere can avoid or absorb one level of damage, a level-four 
Sphere can negate an enemy’s point of special power (Blood, Willpower, Gnosis, 
etc.), and a level-five Sphere can inflict two levels of damage. 


I
I 1
-
 
SPHERE/ TRAIT 
ALIGNMENTS 
I ~ X P B B I B N C E  
E O B  M A ~ E S  
I 
Sphere: Four Experience Traits for a Basic level, eight for an Intermediate 
level, 12 for an Advanced level. Add one point if it’s not a Tradition specialty. 
Arete: Four Experience Traits plus your current rating after an appropriate 
Seeking for enlightenment. 
I 
T B L L I N ~ A  
M A ~ B  
STORY 
So now that you’ve got all sorts of cool powers and neat new character types, 
Ahem.. . I hope you know better than that. 
Remember, Mage is a game about exploration and about the inner journey that 
mirrors external transformation. It’s not just a game of cool Effects! Ideally, your 
mage characters should be interested in changing the world and themselves for the 
better, not in just using fireballs while taking on vampires, Technocrats and evil 
politicians. 
Of course, you’ve already heard this lecture. If you are a Mage player, then 
you’ve read the essays on hubris, resonance, power and responsibility. If you’re not, 
then hopefully the magic of Mage will convince you to pick up the system and give 
it a try. 
it’s time to blow stuff up! 
Best wishes - 
your stride now crosses the universe! 


I 
3
-
 
Whik Bruce Baugh is new to writing material for Mind’s Eye Theatre, he is no stranger to 
the World of Darkness. His previow unitingoedits stretchacross many of our game lines, the most 
memorableofwhichfocuson Wraith: The Oblivion. Someofyoumayremember hisnamefrom 
such books as Doomstayers: Into the Labyrinth, the phenomenal Wraith: The @eat War and 
evenEndsofEmpire. TheimportanceofwraithsfrwntheJ~Kingdominthatlastbook, infact, 
There are realms of the dead beyond the Dark Kingdom of Iron. The most populous and 
powerful is the Jade Kingdom, or the Dark King!dom of Jade. Though few Stygians know much 
about it (or vice versa), the Asian afterlife offers new challenges and opportunities. A chronicle 
can run a very long time befote exhausting the possibilities in Asia, andcrossover with the Stygian 
empire offers an equally wide range of possibilities. This article is (and can be only) an introduction 
to the existence of wraiths in the Middle Kingdom - 
China and the surrounding countries. For 
full details on everything from the condition of wraiths in the occupied Japanese Shadowlands to 
the distinctions between civil and criminal cases in the Jade Kingdom, see Dark Kingdom of Jade. 
BECOMING 
A WRAITH 
Every person has two souls, the hun and the p’o. The fiun comes into being at conception and 
governs the mental and spiritual life of an individual while the p’o originates at! birth and controls 
the physical aspects of life. At death, the two souls separate. The p’o lingers to see that the proper 
burial rights are performed, then drifts off into the void. The hun advances to paradise, aided by 
the prayers and sacrifices of still-living family members. 
Sometimes, however, something goes wrong. The p’o does not separate from the hun, and 
both stay trapped in the Underworld. Premature death sometimes causes it, as does inauspicious 
burial, and sometimes it happens for no readily discemable reason at all. The p’o resents its 
subordinate role, and it attempts to separate itself by destroying the hun if lesser means cannot 
serve. Paradise comes seldom, if at all, to trapped souls. The void of Oblivion swallows many. 
Destruction reaches out to gra!sp souls that cannot direct themselves so as to avoid the lure of 
nothingness. The best most wraithscan hope for is continued existence in theyellow Springs, the 
intermediateiealmofexistenceStygianwraithscal1 theShadowlands. Within theyellow Springs, 
wraithsfindsome fleeting contactwith the livingworldandopportunities todevelop their abilities 
.. 
in this twilight existence. 
Sometimes the separation of the soul goes even more wrong. 1 
remains near the living world, generally in the vicinity of its M y .  
akueiorhungryghost. The kueiretains only thesimplest ofmotives,p 
any slights done to the body. Kuei usually lapse into Oblivion with 
h e  hun passes on, but the p’o 
The left-behind p’o becomes 
articularly adesire to revenge 
in about three years. 


T H E  MECHANICS 
o E T H E  p ’0 - 
Create a Jade wraith‘s p’o using the Oblivion rules for the Shadow. In game mechanics, 
the p’o and Shadow work the same way, accumulating Angst and drawing on Thorns and 
Dark Arcanoi, even though Jade wraiths feel differently about the p’o. To most wraiths in 
the Yellow Springs, the p’o is a natural and proper part of their soul given too much power 
in the afterlife rather than an innately dangerous force. 
J A D E  
Wraiths of the Yellow Springs refer to various substances found in the Underworld as “jade.” 
All jade buried along with a body in the Skinlands comes into the Yellow Springs in relic form. 
This True Jade is worth more than anything else in the Kingdom, including most souls. Skilled 
ar!tisans can shape it into objects which never fade from existence, and True Jade stores Pathos. 
White Jade, created by the Way of the Artisan, lacks True Jade’s durability. 
L 
T H E  MECHANICS 
o E TRUE 
J A D E  
ATrue Jade blade slices through any White Jade Artifact when its wielder wins astatic 
PhysicalTestagainst the target’stotalofTraits.CuttingthroughTrue JadewithaWhite Jade 
blade gives the wielder a three-Trait penalty. 
T H E  
J A D E  KINGDOM 
Trapped souls also find government. Qin Shihuang, the First Emperor of a unified China, 
died 23 centuries ago. He’d prepared himself out of a great fear of (and fascination with) death, 
and he promptly took control of the afterlife corresponding to his empire in life. He ordered 
artisans to build and bury around clay statues around his tomb, and these statues emerged as vessels 
for the souls that became his nearly unstoppable Immortal Guardsmen. They gleam as if freshly 
painted even today. With these and other unique spiritual tools and weapons, Qin Shihuang 
secured his empire and proclaimed himselfYu Huang. He spread his rule across Korea, Japan, Tibet 
and other lands around China. The wraiths of the Occupied Territories suffer under heavy military 
occupation, their inhabitants enslaved and forged so that Yu Huang’s Chinese subjects may exist 
in relative comfort. 
In life, Yu Huang used eunuchs for sensitive missions, as did emperors before and after him. 
Emperors reasoned that eunuchs could be trusted not to let concerns about their own family 
interfere with loyalty to the throne. (In practice, enough eunuchs found other ways to promote 
their personal dynasties that the wicked eunuch giving bad advice became a cliche of popular 
storytelling.) In the afterlife, early ministers presented Yu Huang with something comparable. 
Jade Empire Eunuchs are individuals with erased memories and semi-mechanical jade machinery 
implants. An authorized official touches a lever to make the Eunuch record everything it sees and 
hears, another to make the Eunuch play back a particular passage. Some Eunuchs retain a vaguely 
human appearance, others not, depending on the preferences of their makers. Eunuchs circum- 
vent the problemsofincomplete andunreliable records thatp1agueotherShadowlandsgovemment.s. 
The short-lived Skinlands Qin dynasty applied the philosophy of Legalism, developed by 
Han Fei in the fifth century B.C. -about the same time Confucianism and Daoism emerg 
Skinlands China, Legalism merged with many other philosophies, becoming just one elem 
the philosophy of governance, but in the Yellow Springs, Legalism still reins supreme. Le 
makes no assumptions of innate goodness or moral power in the universe. Instead, HI 
recommends seven principles for rulers: 
Know and compare the various possibilities. 
Punish failure with unvarying severity. 
T H E  DAEK 
K I N D O M O ~  
J A D E  
8 


Reward success with unvarying generosity. 
Listen to all views and hold the proposer accountable for every word. 
Conceal your intent behind unfathomable orders and deceptive assignments. 
Conceal your knowledge when making inquiries of a minister. 
Speak in opposites and act in contraries. 
Yu Huang’s government includes four distinct branches, each sending a representative to 
most towns. The Four Magistrates and their assistants administer the routine chores of govem- 
ment. Smaller towns may have fewer magistrates, or the population might be forcibly relocated 
to larger communities. A few wraith families usually provide most of the officials, as they did in 
life. 
District magistrates oversee groups of town and rural areas. Families have to work harder to 
maintain dominance at the district level, and individual service - 
or lack thereof - 
comes to 
matter more than family connections. City magistrates, overseeing large Necropoli, operate as 
peers of district magistrates. They divide cities into sectors and neighborhoods, each with its own 
Four Magistrates. Sometimes a few families achieve dominance, but, more often, high population 
density leads to constant upheaval and little continuity of lineage among the staff. 
Commanderies oversee several towns and the surrounding rural districts. District command- 
ers scrutinize their subordinates throughout the area. It’saprestigious positionwithfewdemands.. . 
most of the time. 
The Jade Kingdom consists of 34 provinces, each with a Governor chosen directly by the 
Emperor and provincial representatives of the Four Branches. Governors have final authority in 
principle; whether they use it, delegate it or find it manipulated away from them depends on the 
individuals involved. The Emperor can review and negate governors’ decisions, but he seldom 
does so. 
The imperial court itself occupies the Jade Palace, a sprawl of more than 200 separate 
buildings deep within the Tempest. A single prominent jade road connects the palace with the 
Shadowlands. Yu Huang moves his residence and chambers fromone building to the next without 
warning, driven by constant paranoia and fear. A separate staff unit specializes in keeping track 
of his whereabouts for urgent reports. The Four Branches maintain their headquarters in the Jade 
Palace as well. 
Officials at all levels receive salaries, but they’re not paid enough to cover their actual 
expenses, let alone the social displays expected of them. Ironclad custom requires subordinates to 
give “gifts” to their superiors, and citizens offer “gifts in appreciation for service” to officials. This 
universal pattern of bribery isn’t considered immoral unless it gets really, profoundly out of hand 
or officials take payments without providing appropriate service in response. 
THOSE 
WHO RULE 
The specific proper names given for the branch leaders in this section come fromDark 
Kingdom of Jade. Feel free to change them for your own chronicle, if you want to give a 
different flavor to the relations between branches and their respective styles of operation. 
T H E  
EOUR BRANCHES 
The Jade Censors keep track of the resources of the kingdom. They supervise Reaping, tally 
Artifacts and relics and review the allocation of raw materials. The Emperor guarantees families 
the right to Reap their own kin, but in practice an endless network of regulations and judgments 
makes it impossible to maintain consistency. Ideally, a local Censor takes part in every decision 
about a wraithrquote s fate before its Caul comes off. Corruption, ambition, greed and laziness all 
complicate the reality. The Censor can assign a wraith to its family, another group in the 


administrative region or even take it into personal custody. Likewise, every relic theoretically 
carries an imperial stamp of approval and authorization before ending up in someone’s hands for 
very long. The Censors get busiest in times of war and natural disaster in the Skinlands; crises bring 
out both the worst and the best in the Branch. Hu Ji, a woman of unknown mortal antecedents, 
runs the Branch. She’s personally wealthy and therefore free from most temptations to yield to 
powerful families, but she’s not so secure as to be entirely sure she enjoys the Emperor’s support. 
The Judges of the Dead make sure that Jade laws apply fairly and consistently. As Han Fei’s 
principles suggest, justice itself isn! te t a primary concern: Any system applied consistently suffices 
to create a Legalist social order. The Judges monopolize law enforcement among civilians, but they 
may be required to yield to the Military in wartime and crisis. In accordance with Chinese 
tradition, the judge conducts his own investigation, combining the functions that Westem justice 
separates out among judges, prosecutors and police. The Judge also holds the authority to carry out 
his recommended punishment, though appeal up the chain of command is possible. Judges require 
more assistants as their territory widens, and commandery and provincial judges personally try 
only the most important (or interesting) cases. Li Gao has directed the Judges for three centuries 
and enjoys the closest relations with the Emperor. He’s known for punishing and purging Judges 
who show too much sympathy or other incompetence. 
The Protectorate of the Prosperous Realm seeks out sedition among citizens and corrup- 
tion among officials. Protectors enjoy very broad authority to investigate anything that looks like 
a possible violation of Jade law. Since almost everything is a violation of some sufficiently obscure 
edict, Protectors can punish nearly anyone at any time. Nobody can keep them out, and lying to 
them constitutes an admission of guilt. They cannot impose sentence - 
that’s the realm of the 
Judges, Censors or Military depending on the nature of the offense - 
but their recommendations 
usually find acceptance. Formal trials don’t always happen. Everything from Buddhist proselytiz- 
ing to questioning the divinity of the Emperor can bring Protector attention down on lowly souls. 
Fan Wushang has directed the Protectorate for 1500years. While he enjoys the Emperor’s support, 
he also keeps himself personally at adistance so that the Protectorate does not seem merely an arm 
of imperial whim. 
The Military makes the Emperor’s wishes known by corporeal force. Military units include 
infantry, cavalry, navy and (in more recent times) mechanized forces of all kind. Most soldiers 
volunteer for terms of a few years, as being a veteran opens doors for the rest of a wraith‘s existence 
and brings honor to one’s family. Some duties, like patrolling major highways in the heart of &e 
kingdom, pass without stress or risk. Others, like policing bad neighborhoods in the Occupied 
Territories, consume tremendous numbers of soldiers, which makes even the compensatory 
opportunities for personal looting look less desirable. Peng Xin, hero of the wars with Stygia, 
oversees all military force in the empire ... except the Immortal Guard, who answer only to the 
Emperor. 
E A M I L I E S  
Family provides the basis of identity in the Yellow Springs. In the face of a vast imperial 
hierarchy, family provides shelter, purpose, protection and support. Family members look after 
each other’s interests - 
one well-placed official can arrange contracts and patronage for many 
needy relatives. Yellow Springs “families” were all actually composed of true family members in 
older times, but in the modemday, these families comprisegatherings ofwraiths linked by attitude, 
worldview or interest rather than lineage. The Communist campaign against traditional supersti- 
tion and the chaos of modernization separated many wraiths from their lineages. When they 
emerged in theshadowlands, they formed their owngatherings toprovide thesamesort ofservices 
that the oldfamiliesdid. Tension betweenoldfamiliesandnew drivespolitical agendas at all’---’- 
of government and in society at large. 
T H C  
DABK K I N D O M O ~  
J A D E  
6b 


C O N E L I C T S  
Every government faces some discontent among its subjects. Even though Chinese tradition 
generally encourages subservience or at least passive dissent and withdrawal, rebellion has old 
roots as well. Challengingrulers who no longer enjoy Heaven’s mandate to govern is anestablished 
role for the virtuous rebel, and few rebels rush to think of themselves as anything other than 
virtuous. Any citizen with a grievance might become an outlaw, though the vast majority don’t. 
The Occupied Territories host more organized resistance movements. Japan and Tibet in 
particular challenge imperial power, and they require constant suppression. See World of 
Darkness: Tokyo for a detailed discussion of Japanese efforts to throw off Jade rule. In addition, 
persistent rumors about the Emperor’s nature encourage dissent that might turn violent. It’s a 
matter of history that early in his reign, Yu Huang descended into the Tempest and fought the 
Malfean Lung Wang. The official story is that Yu Huang triumphed, seizing Lung Wang’s power 
and possessions for his own. Persistent rumor says that Lung Wang won and uses the Emperor’s skin 
for his own nefarious agenda, whatever it may be. Everyone agrees that the Emperor’s might 
transcends that of any other wraith. The question is simply whether that’s because of his powers 
taken by conquest or because he’s actually a master demon in human disguise. 
The Jade Kingdom and Stygia do not get along well. Ever since the Russo-Japanese War at 
the beginning of the 20th century, there’s been nearly constant conflict. In the 193Os, minor 
skirmishes escalated to all-out war, with the Jade fleet invading along unsuspected Byways to sack 
Boston. The war ended not long before the outbreak of the Fifth Great Maelstrom and weakened 
both governments’ ability to respond to the storm. Tensions have risen steadily ever since, and 
observers on all side predict a fresh conflict soon 
To Jade wraiths, Stygians seem barbarous at best. They have little social order, no proper 
appreciation of family, no sense of piety. It’s easy for a cultured inhabitant of the Yellow Springs 
to see the typical Stygian !as little better than an articulate kueis . Jade wraiths usually strike 
Stygians as confusing, elitist and deeply, offensively smug. 
J A D E B Y T H E  NUMBERS 
This sectioncovers the actualmechanicsofcreatingandplaying Jadewraiths.For additional 
setting material, refer to Dark Kingdom of Jade. The rules given here supplement Oblivion. Jade 
wraiths function ingame mechanics just like Stygian wraiths in all matters not specifically covered 
here. 
CHARACTER 
CREATION 
BACKC~BOUNDS 
Living Family 
This Background replaces Memoriam in the Middle Kingdom for most wraiths, though it’s 
also possible (but very rare) to have Memoriam as well. Keep in mind, large families that offer 
regular sacrifices also tend to call on their ancestors more often for help and services. Draw on 
Living Family using the same mechanics as for Memoriam. 
One Trait: Occasional prayers are offered, but no sacrifices. 
Two Traits: Honored at ma!jor festivals with prayer and small sacrifices. 
Three Traits: Weekly prayers and significant sacrifices at festivals. 
Four Traits: Weekly prayers and small sacrifices throughout the year, large gifts at festivals. 
Five Traits: Daily prayers and frequent sacrifices. 
Wraith Family 


-THE 
YELLOW 
S P R I N ~ S A N D T H B  
EINAL N I ~ H T S  - 
War fever sweeps the Yellow Springs in the months leading up to Ends of Empire and 
the grand invasion of Stygia. Security forces tighten traffic across the borders, and suspected 
spies face angry mobs in addition to official interrogation. Levies on relics and souls for the 
forges rise constantly - 
in the Occupied Territories whole Necropoli become depopulated 
to fuel the war machine. Reserve military units all go to active status and fresh draft levies 
sweep more and more able-bodied wraiths into the army. 
Then comes the invasion itself. After that. ... 
If you want to use the “official” White Wolf story line, the empire falls into chaos. Yu 
Huang loses much of his army and nearly all of his best forces, thanks to defective transports 
and the outbreak of the Great Maelstrom. Suddenly overwhelmed and outnumbered, 
garrisons in the OccupiedTerritories crumble in the face of slave revolts. Within the Yellow 
Springs, threats to the integrity of the realm may lead Yu Huang to inadvertently reveal his 
true nature. If that happens, it’sall over for the Emporer. Even ifYu Huang’s identity remains 
intact, rebel movements exploit the invasion’s failure as a sign that Heaven no longer favors 
him. 
Your chronicle can develop in other ways. Perhaps the invasion succeeds gloriously. 
Perhaps it still ends in failure but the troops manage an orderly withdrawal. Perhaps the 
Great Maelstrom hits the Yellow Springs harder or more lightly than in “canon.” The time 
is ripe forchange, but youshould make thechanges suit your chroniclerather than force your 
game into a single mold. 


T H E  W A Y O E T H E  
SCHOLAR 
Wraiths practicing the Way of the Scholar develop their hun so to understand and control 
the minds of others. Magistrates, particularly Judges and members of the Protectorate, specialize 
in this Arcanos. 
StudiousNature: The mental discipline required by the WayoftheScholarmakes it easier 
System: The Scholar gets a Trait bonus of one to all Mental Tests related to academic study. 
Basic Abilities 
Discern the Lie: The Scholar attunes herself to the patterns of another’s thought so as to 
System: Make a MentalTest. Ifsuccessful, the wraithcan tell ifher target lies during the next 
Inquiry: The Scholar can force the subject to answer one questiontruthfully. The subject 
may use some misdirection and partial truths, but no direct falsehoods. 
System: Spend one Pathos and make a Social Test to get an honest answer to one question. 
Precision in phrasing counts. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Word of Yu Huang: The Scholar may issue a single command to the subject. As with 
Inquiry, the formulationmatters, as the subject may exploit loopholes and ambiguity. The subject 
may not be ordered to perform a self-destructive act. 
System: Spend one Pathos and make a Social Test. Ifsuccessful, the Scholar may issue aone- 
word command. This command can be “Hold” or something of the sort, making the subject stand 
still long enough to use Word of Yu Huang again at a cost of one Pathos. If this second attempt 
succeeds, the Scholar may give a one-sentence order for each point of his current temporary 
Willpower. The subject must make a separate Mental Test to notice the command being given. 
Otherwise, the instructions seem to arise from within. 
Filial Duty: The Scholar instills an urge to cooperate into the subject, making the Scholar 
as valued to the subject as a dear and honored family member. The subject won’t abandon previous 
convictions, but he will help the Scholar in all other ways. 
System: Spend three Pathos and one Willpower, and make an Extended Social Test. The 
Scholar’s command remains in effect for three hours, plus one for each success on the extended 
test. The subject does realize what’s been done to him once the effect wears off. 
to learn all other subjects. 
Advanced Ability 
The Emperor’s Servant: The Scholar masters the intricacies of manipulating the hun, and 
can control the minds of others fully. This art allows her to implant permanent orders. 
System: The Scholar must spend a full day with the subject (usually represented over the 
downtime between games), spend three Pathos and one Willpower and make a Social Test. If 
successful, the target may implant an idea that can be summarized in one sentence. The Scholar 
may make successive tests to increase the complexity of the idea implanted: A paragraph requires 
two tests, a page’s worth of material requires three tests, a chapter’s worth requires four tests and 
a whole book‘s worth of instructions requires five tests. The Scholar must wn all the tests required. 
iy one of them means that 
. 
.
.
*
<
 
I 
Pailure at any one ot them cancels out the whole ettort, and a tie at ar 
the Scholar may only implant one sentence. 
THE 
W A Y O P T H €  A B T I S A N  
This Arcanos deals with the various kinds of jade and relics found 
Artisans learn how to understand their materials and then transform th 
’ within the Jade Kingdom. 
em into whatever it is they 


need. A11 Artisan arts carry a risk of failure. If the Artisan fails in the initial challenge, he must 
make a Simple Test. If he fails that test, then the material he’s working with acquires flaws that 
make it useless for any task. 
Innate Ability 
Hear Jade’s Tale: The Artisan begins by learning how to evaluate an Artifact’s powers 
System: Win a Simple Test to learn this information. 
Basic Abilities 
Shape True Jade: Only Artisans know how to work with True Jade, widely thought to be 
part of the Universe’s soul in solid form. 
System: Make a Mental Test against a difficulty determined by the Storyteller to reshape a 
piece of True Jade into any simple form. Very complex or precise forms may require further 
challenges, at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
Work White Jade: White Jade, made of transformed human souls, lacks True Jade’s 
strength and malleability. Working with it requires extra care and three times as much material 
to produce the same result. 
and the condition of its soul before forging. 
System: Same as for Shape True Jade. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Rework Relics: More experienced Artisans can rework material that was never a soul. 
System: Make a Static Physical Test against a difficulty determined by the Storyteller to 
change a relic’s form. Changing the relic’s material requires three consecutive successes. 
Empower Jade: The Artisan can draw forth latent potential from her material and imbue 
it with Pathos and Arcanoi. The Artisan can store the powers of one Arcanos and the Pathos to 
use it. Unless she knows the Way of the Merchant, she can use only her own Arcanoi and Pathos. 
System: Spend three Pathos, plus the Pathos to be stored in the item, and make a Static 
Mental Test against a set difficulty. True Jade retains its powers indefinitely; White Jade loses its 
powers over time. Each month the Artisan must repeat the challenge (without Pathos cost) to 
prevent the stored powers from beginning to leak out. Once the leak starts, the Artifact loses one 
Pathos and one level of ability per month. 
Advanced Ability 
Create White Jade: The pinnacle of the Artisan’s skill is the creation of White Jade from 
captive souls. First, the subject’s Willpower and Pathos must he reduced to zero, then the Artisan 
spends three days transforming the subject’s Corpus into White Jade. The Artisan must decide in 
advance whether the subject will become hard (suitable for weapons, containers and armor) or soft 
(suitable for parchment, furniture and clothing). 
System: Make a series of 15 Social Tests, representing a total of three days of work. If the 
Artisan accumulates a total of 10 or more successes, the subject becomes White Jade. Ea!ch level 
of Corpus yields about three pounds of White Jade. 
THE 
WAYOETHE 
EABMEE 
While Scholars work on the hun, the Farmer learns to cultivate the p’o. Farmers and 
Pardoners have some techniques in common, but Farmers focus exclusively on the p’o in others. 
Innate Ability 
Kuei Howl: The Farmer calls out to kuei, tricking them (and any others in the area) into 
believing another hungry ghost prowls nearby. Rebel movements use it as the basis of signal 
systems. 
System: Make a Simple Test against any kuei within 100 yards. If the Farmer succeeds, the 
kuei hear the call and respect the howler’s territory, keeping clear. If she ties, the kuei fail to hear 
T H E  
D A R K  K I N D O M O ~  
J A D E  
@ 


? 
I 
t!he call and go about their normal business. If she fails, however, all kuei in range mount a furious 
attack. 
Basic Abilities 
Finding the Hidden Ghost: The Farmer can sense kuei and wraiths under control of their 
System: Make a Simple Mental Test against a target wraith or Spectre. If successful, the 
Cowing the Bestial Spirit: The Farmer can induce fear in wild souls by speaking forcefully 
System: Make an Extended Social Test. The effect lasts 10 minutes per success. 
1 success: The subject flees in terror. 
2 successes: The subject cannot advance and may only retreat slowly. 
3 successes: The subject freezes in place. 
4 successes: The Farmer may render the subject unconscious. 
5 succ!esses: The Farmer can control the subject’s movements. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Purify: Purify is the Farmer’s art most like Castigate. It reduces a p’o’s supply of temprary 
Angst. 
System: Make a Social Test against a difficulty of the target’s permanent Angst score. If 
successful, the Farmer removes a point of temporary Angst or a Corpus level. 
Deaden Spirit: Allp’o-dominated souls run on passion. The Farmer learns to nullify bestial 
tempers through soothing words. 
System: Make a Social Test. If successful, the Farmer speaks to the subject in ways that 
prevent it from acting violently or suddenly for one minute per point of the Farmer’s Willpower. 
The subject may wander around listlessly and mutter insults under its breath, though it cando little 
else. 
p’o. 
Farmer senses if the target is in Catharsis or Shadow-eaten. 
to them. 
Advanced Ability 
Reap the Hungry Ghost: The Farmer’s most sophisticated art involves harvesting kuei 
Corpus like so much rice. The subject must be subdued. This art does not work on Spectres or 
wraiths under the sway of their p’o. 
System: Spend two Pathos and make a Social Test. If successful, the Farmer reduces the 
subject to an easily transportable clay-like blood. The test takes half an hour per Corpus level. 
T 
H e WA 
Y o P T H e ME a c H A N T 
Few love the arts of the middleman, but they are necessary for all souls who wish to use the 
Innate Ability 
Jingle Jingle: Merchants can literally smell money. 
System: MakeaMentalChallenge againsta targetwraithor otherspirittodetect any Pathos 
stored through Mint Money that target carries. Or make astatic MentalTest against astoryteller- 
determined difficulty to detect solid Pathos stored within 20 feet of the Merchant. 
sacrifices offered by living relatives. 
Basic Abilities 
Transfer: This art is the Jade Kingdom’s equivalent to the Usury art of the same name. 
ItrequiresCorpus-to-Corpuscontact 
andgeneratesayellowishglowwhile the transfer takes place. 
System: Spend one Willpower and make a Simple Social Test. If successful, the Merchant 
can transfer up to three points of Pathos. 


Cash Money: This Merchant art is the most widely used one in a Merchant’s repertoire. 
It converts sacrifices into usable Pathos. 
System: Make a Static Social Test with a difficulty of the number of points of Pathos in a 
sacrifice. Now the Merchant has that Pathos in a form he can give to others (via Transfer) or use 
himself. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Withdraw Essence: The Merchant can extract Pathos from the corpus of a Farmer- 
converted kuei or raw White Jade (but not shaped White Jade or kuei hammered into new forms). 
System: Spend a point of Willpower and make a Static Social Test against a difficulty of 6 
+ the number of Pathos points to extract (seven Traits for one point, eight Traits for two points 
and so on). 
Returning the Favor: The Merchant may imbue a mortal with Pathos. The mortal can 
spend one point to reduce the difficulty of a single challenge by two Traits, two points for a retest 
on asingle challenge and three points to regain a point of Willpower. A mortal can gain only three 
points of Pathos at any given time through this art. 
System: The Merchant must be within five feet of the mortal target but need not be manifest 
in theskinlands. SpendaPathosandaWillpowerandmakeaStaticSocialTestagainst adifficulty 
of the local Shroud rating + the number of Pathos points to be transferred. 
Advanced Ability 
Mint Money: The Merchant can convert her own Pathos into corporeal form: strings of 
coins, wads of paper money and other tokens of value. Some Merchants create unique manifes- 
tations so as to build up a “house reputation” for their work. 
System: Spend two Pathos and one Willpower, and make a Social Test with a difficulty of 
six Traits + the Pathos points being converted. The money lasts one day per point of Pathos the 
Merchant possesses after completing the challenge. 
THE 
WAYOETHE 
SOUL 
The other standard Jade Arcanoi draw on Confucian beliefs; the Way of the Soul expresses 
Daoist ideas. Jade denizens turn inward to subdue the noubledp’o rather than summoning outside 
assistance as Stygians do with Castigators. 
THE 
DAEK 
K I N D O M O P  
J A D E  
e 


Innate Ability 
Negotiation: Students of the Way of the Soul learn how to calm the p’o by persuasion as 
well as force. It’s risky, as efforts at calm may backfire and rile the p’o that much more. 
System: When a wraith feels himself about to lose control of his hun, he can engage in 
Negotiation. Make astatic WillpowerTest against thep’o’spermanent Angst. Successmeans that 
the p’o loses a point of temporary Angst and cannot attempt to seize control until gaining another. 
Failure grants the p’o a point of temporary Angst. 
Basic Abilities 
Coax: This art lets the wraith modify the number of Shadow Traits her p’o offers. 
System: Make an opposed test of the wraith’s Social Traits against the p’o’s current Angst. 
If successful, the wraith forces the p’o to make a Shadow Bid (see Oblivion, p. 172). On failure, 
the p’o need spend no Angst. 
Nullify Thorns: The wraith can deny his p’o access to a particular Thorn temporarily. 
System: Spend a point of Pathos and make a Physical Test against the p’o’s current Angst. 
If successful, the wraith picks a single Thorn that the p’o cannot use for the next half hour. The 
wraith can repeat this Challenge every half hour without further Pathos cost. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Give Higher Passions: The wraith infuses some ofher own passions into the p’o, replacing 
System: SpendtwoPathos and make anExtended SocialTest against thep’o’scurrent Angst 
plus two Traits. If successful, the wraith can pick one Dark Passion to be replaced by one of the 
wraith‘s own passions for one day per success. The wraith doesn’t lose access to the passion during 
this time. 
Alter Demeanor: The wraith can force the p’o to adopt a new pattern of behavior, either 
a different Shadow Archetype or even a Psyche Nature. By a combination of persuasion and 
intimidation, the wraith briefly ele!vates the p’o’s attention. 
System: Spend three Pathos and make a Static Social Test against a difficulty of the p’o’s 
current Angst plus four. If successful, the wraith forces a new nature onto the p’o that remains in 
effect for one hour per point of current Pathos. On failure, the p’o gains one Angst, and the player 
makes a Simple Test. If that test fails, the p’o gains three temporary Angst and one permanent 
Angst. 
one of its Dark Passions. 
Advanced Ability 
Inner Peace: The wraith joins forces with the p’o, subverting the p’o’s own agenda in the 
process of yielding some Psyche control. 
System: Make a Willpower Test against the p’o’s current Angst. If successful, the hun 
partially fuses itself with the p’o. It can gain Pathos from Dark Passions as well as Passions, and it 
can use the 0’0’s Thorns and Dark Arcanoi as well as it’s own Arcanoi. The hun can spend both 
Angst and Pathos as necessary. The fusion ends when the p’o’s current Angst reaches zero. If the 
hun fails the initial test, make a Simple Test. If that test fails, the p’o takes immediate control and 
gains three temporary Angst. 
C H A I N S O P T H E  
€ M P E B O B  
The Immortal Guard uses this Arcanos to help maintain their discipline. Its arts subdue 
rather than destroy, allowing Yu Huang’s administration to enforce the harshest justice. Only the 
Guardsmen learn this Arcanos, though ru!mors sometimes circulate to the contrary. 
Innate Ability 
Soul Anchor: Chains of the Emperor conflicts directly with Argos, and Guardsmen learn 
to sense uses of Argos within 50 feet of themselves. 


System: Make a Mental Challenge to detect another wraith's use of Argos within 50 feet. 
It provides a general sense of the Enshrouded individual's whereabouts and pinpoints any other 
Argos user. 
Basic Abilities 
Brilliance: The Guardsman's painted skin glows even more vividly than usual, filling the 
Shadowlands' darkness with an inhuman rendition of the glories of day. 
System: Spend one Pathos. The Guardsman brightens over the course of three turns. At full 
brilliance, everyone in the area who looks anywhere near the Guardsman must win or tie a Static 
Physical Test to avoid blindness. Attacks against the Guardsman are at a Trait penalty of one for 
the first two rounds, and an additional two every round thereafter. Brilliance lasts for only five 
turns, but the Guardsman can renew it at his discretion. 
Shackles: The Guardsman transforms some of his own Corpus into bindings for the feet 
or hands of an immobilized opponent. They cannot be removed by anyone but a Guardsman 
except through Moliate. 
System: Spend two Corpus and one Pathos. It takes one round to put Shackles on a foe 
immobilized by one means or another; the target must be stationary while the Guardsman fits the 
shackles. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Snare: A Guardsman can reach out to cancel Argos arts used by others. 
System: While in corporeal contact with a Guardsman, a wraith must first win a Physical 
Lariat: This art is similar to Shackle, but it can be used at distances up to 50 feet. 
System: Spend two Corpus and one Pathos and take a turn to prepare. Then make a Physical 
Advanced Ability 
Net: This effect extends Shackles even further, encompassing a whole group of targets up 
to 20 feet away from the Guardsman. 
System: Spend three Pathos to create a colorful webbing 12 feet in diameter. The 
Guardsman then throws it. Anyone within the targeted area must make a Physical Test to avoid 
getting entangled. Once caught, a victim must win four Physical Challenges in a row against the 
Guardsman. True Jade cuts the net, but White Jade does not. 
Test before using any Argos art. 
Challenge. If successful, the Guardsman's target falls trapped as if by Shackles. 
THE 
DARK 
K I N D O M O P  
JADE 
@ 
_ _  
.. 
_. 
_.__I_ - 


MAY DAY! 
by Lindsay Woodcock 
AN OBLIVION 
A D V E N T U R E  I N  T H R E E  PARTS 
PRELUDE 
Events that began their inexorable course in Parts One and Two of this story are finally 
coming to a head. This chapter lets your Oblivion troupe participate in the making of Shadowlands 
history. In Part One (“Ambassador”), the circle met TadashiNakagawa, aYellow Springs emissary 
carryingarelicwakizmhiand anoddlist ofnamesofStygianHeretics (bothoutspokenandcovert). 
However, Nakagawa mysteriously dropped into a Harrowing before he could divulge any 
information on why he was carrying the relic or the list. The only clue to his real mission was a 
scrap of paper reading, “Find optimal points; solidify alliances; look for the unblinking.” The 
characters may have even discovered that the relic was somehow tainted, infecting its user with 
temporary Angst. 
In Part Two of the chronicle (“Deployment”), the circle discovered that the list of names 
of Heretics that Nakagawa was carrying comprised a Heretic cult acting in collusion with the Dark 
Kingdom ofJade. The cult, with members scattered throughout the Dark Kingdom of Iron, has laid 
the groundwork for an invasion, and that invasion is imminent and inevitable. In discovering this 
information, the circle may have gone to the Hierarchy, the Renegades beyond the walls of the 
Necropolis or even the Heretics themselves. No matter where they’ve gone, the wraiths are likely 
to have stepped on some toes and made some enemies. 
Now the wakizmhi is still on the loose, the Jade forces are at the gates, and an ill wind has 
begun to blow and scrape outside the citadel walls.. .. 
S O M E  
TECHNICAL 
NOTES 
No ready-made adventure could possibly account for player creativity, Narrator preference, 
or even pure chance; there are just too many variables to make for a single story that will work for 
everyone. Flexibility is essential. Keeping that in mind, each installment of the adventure is 
broken into individual scenes. The scenes are then divided into two sections: Hard Info and 
Choices. 
Hard Info is just what it might appear: facts, events, and information that must, somehow, 
occur or be revealed for the adventure to run as planned. How you work it into the story is largely 
up to you as Storyteller, but it needs to get in there. Feel free to use existing social structures, 
Narrator characters or your favorite plot devices to deliver this information. 
Choices are, again, just what they might appear. They spell out some of the things wraith 
characters might do in reaction to the Hard Info, plus some of the ways the story would be affected 
by character actions. The Choices account for the story’s flexibility as characters, both Narrator 
and player, drive the plot. As long as the skeleton of the adventure a3 the Hard Info ae is intact, 
don’t worry about forcing the flesh into any particular shape. Let the players play their characters. 
Your only job is to emphasize drama and suspense. 
By the way, the rest of this information is for Storyteller’s only, unless you want to spoil the 
surprise of what’s going to happen next. 
PART 
THREE: 
INVASION 
S U g g E S T I O N S  
Unless your own version of this story calls for them, you won’t need any special props to 
advance the plot, other than the relic wukizashi delivered by Nakagawa in Part One of the 
chronicle. You might consider re-introducing Nakagawa to the action, but unless you can come 
up with a convincing reason for how he has managed to make it all the way back to the location 
of your game from the Shadowlands of Japan (to which he returned after his Harrowing), you don’t 


have to. You could bring back Joseph Sauvant (the Hierarchy agent assigned to monitor the 
wraiths after they approached Hierarchy representatives with their information or suspicions - 
if they did so) as well, although he plays no special role in the events as they’re written. 
S C E N E  
ONE 
Hard Info: 
Before the scene gets started, characters may notice the wind picking up and the screaming 
behind that wind. Perception-based Static Challenges may be made, or Narrators may decide 
arbitrarily who notices. What savvy observers should be able to figure out is that there’s a 
Maelstrom brewing, and it’s going to be big. At the same time, the armies of the Yellow Springs, 
long on the march, are finally within striking-distance of the Stygian empire. Forces are aimed at 
Stygia itself, and the air of growing tension should be palpable. Everyone’s waiting for something 
to happen, and the Maelstrom is getting closer.. .. 
Choices: 
If one of the characters recognizes the brewing Maelstrom for what it is, the Circle might 
choose to hole up in a strong Haunt early and try to hide from the Jade invaders. Should there be 
no Pardoner in the Circle or in the group’s allies, the characters may be able to reason with a 
Renegade Pardoner or a friendly Hierarchy one. 
If the characters are outside their city, they might be faced with entire warships popping out 
of Nihils. Also, if there are city gates, the first line of defense against a Maelstrom or invasion is 
going to be that wall and those gates. The wraiths better hurry if they want to get inside. If they 
feel like it, let them try to convince Renegades or Heretics outside to join them inside where it’s 
“safe.” They may have trouble talking their way past the city guards, but base the amount of static 
they get on how well they roleplay. 
Some enterprising (or suicidally insane) characters may even try to bargain/ negotiate with 
representatives of the Jade army, but do not let this tactic succeed unless the speaker happens to 
be carrying the relic wakimshi Nakagawadelivered in Part One. Under no other circumstances will 
the Jade wraiths listen, and the relic will only keep the Jade wraith troops from slaying those 
characters immediately present. They will still be kept prisoner in the army’s camp. 
S C F N E  Two 
Hard Info: 
This scene serves as exposition for whatever information the characters may have missed 
thus far. It should come out in the wash that Nakagawa was nothing more than a Jade-Kingdom 
spy, on the lookout for the Heretic cult responsible for opening the city to invasion. The relic 
wakizashi he carried was to be delivered to a stronghold of that cult and displayed as a symbol for 
Jade troops to pass over that location in their attack. Ferret out any cult spies who may have 
infiltrated the Hierarchy (and who, likely, have been trying to get rid of the characters who “know 
too much”). Set this discovery scene against the rising tide of the Maelstrom winds and the 
revelation that something huge and unexpected has just happened to upset the boundary between 
the Labyrinth and the Tempest (see Ends of Empire to find out exactly what it is). 
Choices: 
The choices in this scene revolve around how you deliver this information. If your characters 
are in the camp of the invading army, perhaps a too-proud captain of the military spills the beans. 
A series of interrogations and/ or torture sessions can reveal the necessary gems within the safety 
of the Hierarchy. Outside the walls, a crusty Renegade veteran of the Underworld may have 
discovered the conspiracy and have been all too happy to tell the characters about it, in exchange 
for their putting a good word in for him with the Hierarchs. (After all, it was the Renegades who 
destroyed one of Nakagawa’s fetters in Part One, hoping to stop him before he accomplished his 
mission.) 
However, once all this information has been relayed, there’s no time left to do anything 
about it. 


S C E N E  
THREE 
Hard Info: 
The other shoe drops, the last straw falls and all hell breaks loose. The timing of this scene 
is ultimately up to you, but starting it as soon after the preceding scene as possible is best. What 
happens is simply this: All that hangs in the balance comes crashing down in waves of destruction 
and violence. 
The Jade armies march on the StygianNecropoli, destroying the walls, the buildings and any 
wraiths the troops can get a hold of. Any prisoners taken will be soulforged, and any building left 
standing will be occupied by Jade forces. The only building left alone will be the one displaying 
Nakagawa’s wukizashi, which is only recognizable by the taint it carries. 
Worse yet, the Maelstrom begins shortly on the heels of the invasion. However, this storm 
is no scattered shower on the Stygian front. The howling winds (and concomitant Spectre hordes) 
herald the coming of the Sixth Great Maelstrom. Nihils the size ofcandlestick Park rip open, and 
the worst of unimaginable foes flood the Underworld from the very mouth of Oblivion. The events 
leadingupto thestartoftheMaelstromhave beenset inmotionoff-stageand areunstoppable (see 
Ends of Empire), and now it’s right in the characters’ lap. 
There has never been a Maelstrom this big before, so play it to the utmost. Destruction rains 
(or reigns) everywhere, playing havoc with both sides of the Stygia-Jade Kingdom battles. The 
screams are deafening, and the silence is ear-splitting. There is nowhere to run. 
. 
Choices: 
The greatest choices in this scene revolve around your descriptions of the carnage wrought 
by the two-fold invasion. Find out what forces ofnature scare your players and unleash those forces. 
Great Maelstroms are destruction incarnate, so make them feel it. Make themfear it. If they can’t 
find somewhere to hide in a reasonable amount of time, wipe them out. Make them choose who 
they’ll count on to survive, who’ll they’ll cut off from safety if needs be and which ports they’ll run 
to in the storm. 
If they try to hole up in a Haunt, how will they defend it from Jade wraiths and Spectres? If 
they run to the Hierarchy, will they aid in defending the walls, or will they aid in the fighting that 
will inevitably go on in the streets? Or will they simply hide in a deep, dark hole until the violence 
passes? 
It’s also possible to run a scenario in which members of the Hierarchy have discovered the 
significance of Nakagawa’s wakizashi, and different factions are scrambling to get possession of it 
before the Jade army breaches the walls. 
And finally, you may even consider scenes of cooperation between the Stygian forces and 
Jade forces. Not every Jade Kingdom wraith on the attack is expecting a horde of Spectres at their 
backs, and in panic, they may side with their erstwhile adversaries to ride out the storm. 
S C E N E  
EOUE 
Hard Info: 
After some indeterminate amount of time (days, weeks, hours, years?) the Great Maelstrom 
winds subside. The Spectres slink back into their holes, and the wave of destruction dies down. 
At some point, the characters who have survived should crawl from wherever they’ve holed up to 
survey what’s Left of their world. 
Choices: 
At this point, the choices are all yours. Decide how long the Great Maelstrom has lasted. 
Decide how muchof the setting is left intact. Decide who hassurvived. Decide if the Jade Invasion 
Fleet is still on the move. It’s all up to you. 
If you need help deciding what to do now, see Rich Dansky’s article on that subject on page 
63 of this issue of the Journal. 


IT’S THF F N D  Ofi THF 
WORLD! WHAT RO I DO 
by Rich Dansky 
A subtle word of warning: This article is rife with spoilers. Left, right and center, 
you can’t throw a dart at this article without hitting some piece of information specific 
to Wraithcontinuity thatjustmybeyoudidn’twantto know. When youreadthe book 
Ends of Empire, you’ll see what I mean. If you’d rather wait and see what happens 
in Wraith continuity first (before you declde to foist it onto your poor, unsuspecting 
players), read that book before you read this article. Some serious goings-on are afoot 
there, and this article relates them in digest form. 
Now, with that proviso in mind, you may skip this box and proceed to the rest of 
the article. Jwt don’t say I didn’t warn you. 


On a more serious note, delaying the events of Ends of Empire indefinitely can 
be an eminently workable solution. After all, if you’ve spent months setting up plot 
lines that revolve around the characters’ involvement in one of the Smiling Lord’s 
multifarious plots, it’s going to be profoundly unsatisfying for your players to have all 
of that swept away. They’ve put in the time, the effort and the passion of unraveling 
the plot, and they deserve the chance to resolve it. 
That doesn’t mean, however, that it’s necessarily a good thing to hold back the 
tide of time indefinitely. 
While it’s a good idea to allow any existing plot lines that would be truncated 
by Ends of Empire to wind down gracefully, it’s an even better one not to Start up 
new threads that will pose the same problem down the road. Instead, think about 
plots that can survive or even be enhanced by the coming Great Maelstrom. Even 
if you don’t have any concrete ideas for stories that can be extended that way, you 
can lay the groundwork for post-Maelstrom chronicles. 
Start introducing Narrator characters who’ll be important once the fertilizer 
hits the rotary ventilation device. Good ideas include Renegades with good survival 
skills for hostile conditions. Harbingers who’ll be able to get characters through 
Maelstrom conditions, or even a tough-as-nails Legionnaire who can be counted on 
to defend the Necropolis against Spectres, regardless of who’s in charge. Lay in in- 
game ways for characters to get their hands on the necessities of unlife - 
relics, 
Artifacts, soulfire - 
once things get crazy. (Indeed, this concept can make for a 
wonderful lead-in plot thread: The Grim Legion is hoarding stockpiles of all sorts of 
goodies; where are all the supplies going, and why?) Omens, signs and portents are 
your friends - 
Fatalism offers a handy way to start laying on the foreshadowing 
effectively. Having a bunch of wraiths who call themselves “Oracles” around can’t 
hurt matters, either, when it comes to lining up news of the future. Increase Spectral 
activity - 
or have it disappear altogether and watch everyone get nervous. Send a 
Ferryman into towndispensing knowledge or even gifts that have no obvious bearing 
now, but which will be very useful once the walls come tumbling down (and in the 
meantime, no doubt there will be a mad scramble between characters to figure out 
who got what and why). Send out more Narrators to Shadowguide and have them 
play matters a trifle more excited than usual. A Jade wraith who’s in the Necropolis 
to scout for the upcoming invasion can make an excellent Narrator character as well. 
Turn her loose and see if anyone catches her. All of these ideas can lead plots and 
characters toward the events of Ends of Empire before the actual storm, both literal 
and figurative, hits. 
11. HOLD ONTOTHE 
MOMENT 
The fall of Enoch and the events after it take, at most, a few days. Once the 
Stygian fleet anchors off the coast of the mysterious black city, the sequence of 
calamities becomes both inevitable and swift. However, it’s highly unlikely that you 
or your Storytelling team is going to want to gear up for a 96-hour continuous 
Oblivion marathon session, one which ranges from Enoch to the Necropoli to Stygia 
and beyond. (I mean, if you really really want to, I’m not going to stop you, but you’re 
responsible for the Vivarin, the Jolt! and the nervous tics that you and your Narrators 
rack up.) 
On the other hand, those 96 hours or so are pretty jam-packed with action. A 
lot happens: Two nuclear detonations, a Great Maelstrom, a pair of invasions, the 


return of Charon, the revelation of the Mnemoi, the end of the Deathlords and more. 
That’s a whole lot of plot. Do you really want to have all of that happening offstage? 
Instead, why not get your game involved in the epic events that are reshaping 
the Underworld? You don’t necessarily have to run all of the pivotal moments - 
after all, it’s going to be hard to find a rationale to shift your entire troupe from Enoch 
to a Necropolis to Stygia in the time frame available - 
but you can pick and choose 
your spots. If your chronicle has been set in a Necropolis, there’s no reason that you 
can’t divert some of the Jade invasion of Stygia to your game’s gates. Furthermore, 
there’s nothing that says that the entire invasion has to be wrapped up in a single 
session. This is a pivotal moment in the history of the Underworld, and, to quote 
Little Nell, “Slowly, slowly, it’s too nice a job to rush.” An invasion is rarely the sort 
of thing that gets wrapped up in a couple of hours. There’s plenty of material - 
guerilla combat, active resistance, infiltrating enemy command, sabotage, deal- 
making and more - 
to keep the plot simmering for session after session. After all, 
the Sixth Great Maelstrom arrives on your schedule, not ours. 
Furthermore, no one says you have to stop at one high point. If the defense-of- 
the-Necropolis plot is going well, maybe your players are indicating that they’d like 
to keep the action at home. There are plenty of ways, from counterattacks to going 
underground to having characters sell out, to extend the moment. There’s no reason 
to move past a setting that’s working well, after all. You can drag this out as long as 
you need to in order to satisfy your players. 
On the other hand, perhaps the local wraiths might be interested in marching 
off to Stygia to defend the seat of Empire. That development would allow you to set 
up encounters in the Tempest on the way to the Isle of Sorrows as well as integrating 
the later events of Ends of Empire into your story line. There are plenty of exciting 
scenes in the story “The Last Danse Macabre” that can be integrated into Oblivion 
games easily enough. Why not give them a shot? 
I I I .  THE LAST DANSE 
MACABRE 
Ends of Empire does include an extended story entitled “The Last Danse 
Macabre,” which details the return of Charon to the Underworld, the coming of the 
Sixth Great Maelstrom and the final fate of Stygia. The story is designed for tabletop 
play, but there is certainly a great deal of material in it that can be lifted and 
converted into a live-action scenario. In other words, it is entirely possible to run an 
Oblivion chronicle through the events of the tabletop story. 
There really is only one major hang-up with translating “The Last Danse 
Macabre” directly, that being the fact that the story is written for a maximum of six 
characters. If you’ve got a 40 person game, trying to squeeze all of them into the 
conference room at the top of the Onyx Tower to witness Charon’s re-assumption 
of power (Oops? Was that another spoiler? Silly me) might be a little difficult to 
narrate. On the other hand, if you have a small game, or even just a small core of 
players who want to put some extra time in, you can very easily let them tread the 
path laid out in Ends of Empire. 
Bear in mind, however, that if you do want to translate “The Last Danse 
Macabre” over, it’s going to be a fair bit of work for you and your Narrators. There 
are quite a few Narrator characters who need to be onstage or at least accounted for 
at various points in the plot, ranging from Deathlords to Jade Empire soldiers to 
Charon himself. It’s also a scene-intensive story. The setting moves from Necropolis 
London (or whatever city you want to use) into the Tempest and then to Stygia. If 


you run a game that relies on actually setting up game space to look appropriate for 
the action, you’re letting yourself in for a ton of work here. That’s not to say don’t 
do it, but be prepared for what “The Last Danse Macabre” requires from the people 
running it. 
IV. PALLDOWN 
90 BOOM 
But let’s say you’re daring (or you’ve got a Spectre like Maxwell Carpenter 
looking over your shoulder as you read this). Let’s say that you’ve got an appetite for 
destruction, a yen for wreckage and way too strong an identification with the first 
two Road Warrior films. In other words, you want to blow up Enoch, zoom past the 
Ends of Empire and set up your Oblivion chronicle in the still-twitching wreckage 
of the Underworld. What then? 
That’s when things get interesting. 
The best thing about running a post-Enoch Oblivion chronicle is that you can 
mix and match whatever elements from traditional Wraith that you want to keep 
with entirely new material. By the same token, you can throw out whatever bits of 
wraithly back-story don’t fit your idea of a game. Don’t like the Hierarchy? In your 
Necropolis, it’s gone, swept away by the storm. Hate the Dictum Mortuum? 
Whatever powers that be might well drop the ban, now that it’s unlikely that 
enforcers from the Isle of Sorrows are showing up to turn violators into ashtrays. 
Don’t like soulforging itself? The new regime outlaws it. And so it goes - 
the post- 
disaster Underworld is not a heterogeneous place. Each Necropolis is an island, and 
it can have its own rules, regulations and customs now that there’s no overseeing 
body in place to enforce standards and practices. You just have to pick and choose 
what you want to keep. 
T H E  SETTING 
If you’re going to run a game set apes ks deluge, you have to decide precisely 
what happened in your setting. Did the storm utterly lay waste to your Necropolis, 
or did the walls hold? Were there many casualties, or did everyone get under cover 


in time? Did the Jade Empire invade, or were you on the list of bypassed targets? If 
there was damage to the Necropolis, what’s left, what was destroyed, and how did it 
get knocked down? Answering all of these questions and others like them (Who was 
lost in the defense? What resources were expended? Above all, what happened?) 
before you start play is a necessity. Otherwise, you’re confronted with the daunting 
tasks of making up history on the fly and keeping it straight every time someone asks 
a question. Unless you start your setting with a strong foundation, everything you 
build on it is going to be suspect. If you start with a clear, logical outline of your 
setting’s recent history, you keep all of your Narrators on the same page. Further- 
more, you make it easy to build on what’s already there. If you’re unsure of how badly 
the Necropolis was damaged during the Maelstrom, you’re going to have a hard time 
writing plots about Spectres hiding in the wrecked portions of the city. If you don’t 
know if the city was invaded by the Jade Empire or not, you’re up the creek when your 
players start demanding to know where they can find 1eftoverTrue Jade Artifacts and 
learn imperial Arcanoi, and so it goes. If you don’t know what’s happened, it’s that 
much harder to figure out what’s going to happen without tripping over your own 
feet. 
After you’ve decided on the immediate history of your setting, you have to 
populate it. Decide which wraiths are left as well as who was swept away by the tide 
of history. This question actually breaks down into other, equally vital ones. 
Specifically, asking who’s left leads directly to asking who’s in charge, which does 
more to set the tone of your game than perhaps anything else. Is the local Hierarchy 
still in place, trying desperately to hold the pieces together? Have Renegades or 
Heretics taken over? Is there a Spectral presence in local politics, overt or covert? 
And what about refugees from Stygia? With the Isle destroyed, they have to go 
somewhere. What are the odds that a bunch of high-and-mighty Gaunts pick your 
city to start over in? Figuring out who’s in charge - 
which is primarily a function 
of which wraiths are left after the dust settles - 
determines how the Necropolis 
operates. A bunch of Hierarchs trying to maintain the status quo is going to insist 
on a Dictum Mortuum, regulated Reaping or even more unsettling practices. If 
Renegades are in place, they may want none of these things - 
or they may discover 
that being the new boss turns them into the old boss. Spectral authorities may lead 
to mysterious disappearances and the like. It’s up to you; there’s no right or wrong 
way to do it. Just make sure you have a clear idea of what you are doing before going 
any further. 
The other aspect of figuring out the post-bellum population of your Necropolis 
is the general populace. Who’s left? Have the surrounding wraiths huddled into the 
Citadel for protection, or do they choose to brave the storm on their own? Is there 
astrong loyal-or disloyal-opposition to the current governing body?What about 
small factions like Guilds, Renegade gangs or Heretic cults? Are they present, and 
in what strength? By the same token, you need to figure out who isn’t there anymore. 
If the city used to be a stronghold of the Grim Legion, but most of those soldiers were 
wiped out in one way or another, how are the survivors going to react? Will they 
recruit desperately, cut deals with former subordinates or try to bluff it out?And how 
will everyone else, especially those groups who have been waiting for those arrogant 
sonsabitches from the Grim Legion to get cut down to size, react with the newly 
downsized military presence? Will there be an attempt at compromise until the 
Necropolis is strong enough to stand without every wraith standing shoulder to 
shoulder, or will old hatreds and jealousies boil over? 


.  . . 
. . . . . 
Naturally, this decision leads into the following question: How do the survivors 
(and I use the term loosely; we are talking about dead people here, after all) feel about 
one another? Has the foxhole mentality of “put ’em through hell together and they’ll 
come out bestest buddies” taken over for the duration of the crisis, or is each faction 
taking the opportunity to pounce on weakened rivals? Certainly characters’ Shad- 
ows should be taken into account when you’re pondering this question. A society 
literally fueled by strong feeling is a prime breeding ground for vendettas. Remember 
also that politics is not strictly a vertical exercise. There’s plenty of side-to-side 
conflict and maneuvering to play with as well. If the group on top is weak, odds are 
that any ambitious factions are going to work on neutralizing or destroying the 
competition before making a play for the brass ring. That means that if you’ve got 
survivors of three Guilds that didn’t particularly get along in town, you may find 
- 
A QUICK 
~ U I D E T O  WHAT’S L E E T A E T E R T H E  
STORM 
.The Guilds 
Many of the Guilds lose their top leadership in the battle for Stygia, and 
thus, they are left somewhat aimless in the aftermath. Freed fromcharon’s ban, 
the survivors of various Guilds do come out from under cover as their skills are 
desperately needed, but lingering suspicion does remain. Five centuries of 
propaganda is a hard thing to overcome. 
No Mnemoi are sighted after Stygia falls. 
Doomslayers 
Much reduced in ranks, they’re on the defensive. A great many are 
destroyed when the Martyr Knight commandery goes up in a cloud of Spectres, 
but the survivors try desperately to get their orders back together. Few have the 
opportunity to go back into the Labyrinth, so they content themselves with 
putting their knowledge to work defending Necropoli. They are treated with a 
mixture of admiration and undisguised loathing. The former comes from 
wraiths who still see them as daring heroes; the latter comes from those who saw 
what their arrogance wrought on Stygia. 
The Legions 
Not surprisingly, the Legions are greatly reduced in strength. The Deathlords 
are gone, and many Legionnaires have gone to their final reward defending the 
Necropoli or fighting among themselves when the Smiling Lord’s treachery is 
uncovered. Many wraiths have abandoned the Legions for fear of reprisal while 
others have clung to their identity in the face of potential adversity. All of the 
remaining Legions recruit heavily where they may for obvious reasons. 
Renegades 
Renegades are hard hit, not by the Jade invasion, but rather by the Great 
Maelstrom. Most shelter in Haunts that are not strong enough to withstand the 
storm winds, and casualties are immense. Many Renegades move into the 
Necropoli, either establishing Renegade governments or trying to blend in with 
the local citizenry. Renegade politics is still highly factionalized, especially 
without a unifying enemy to give cause to override disagreements. 
Heretics 
Heretics suffer from the storm as Renegades do. Many set out to find the 
Far Shores. Others move into theNecroDolienmasse where thev form coherent 
communities - 
and power blocs. 


yourself Storytelling a tricornered gang war before anyone makes a play to unseat the 
local Hierarchy leftovers. Then again, freed from the Hierarchy’s laws, groups may 
find common cause with strange bedfellows. Pardoners and Heretic groups may ally, 
for example, or a strong surviving Legion might take Artificers and Alchemists 
under its wing. Not everything needs to be reductio ad absurdum. After all, there’s 
every chance that the local wraiths are working together to build the Necropolis 
backup. Just make sure you’ve decided which way things are going and who’s headed 
in which direction. 
WHAT’S HAPPEN IN^. ? 
Once you’ve established what happened and who’s left, the other major 
question is “What’s going on now?” Is the city beset by external or internal strife? Are 
there Spectres at the gate - 
or inside the Citadel? Is there fighting in the streets, or 
order? What alliances have been formed and what enmities kindled? In other words, 
this is where you lay the seeds for all of your plots. By doping out what’s actually 
happening in the Necropolis, you set up what’s going to happen. If you decide that 
the Spectral forces haunting the outside of the city are going to infiltrate, you 
establish “find the traitor” and “who can be trusted?” plot lines. If you decide that 
there’s a power vacuum at the top and various groups vying for control, you set up 
alliance-making and political stories. 
And so it goes. By answering these questions, you’re setting up your chronicle. 
You know where it is, where it’s been and where it’s going. After that, it’s all just in 
the details. 
V. THOSE 
PESKY 
DETAILS 
There are certain other things you will need to take into account, aside from 
your setting. If you’re running a game set while the Sixth Great Maelstrom is still 
howling outside the door, you have to take that into account with your plot lines. 
Odds are, your Necropolis will be isolated, which means that plotlines about 
squabbles with neighboring Necropoli and setting up peaceful communes outside 
the walls will be difficult to maintain. That isolation also limits your potential in- 
play origins for new characters. (If they’re not dying in town, how are they getting 
there?) By the same token, you’re getting a ready-built plot generator in the form of 
the Maelstrom winds. Anything from ancient relics to an endless supply of Spectres 
can be dashed up against the Necropolis walls to provide conflict, antagonists and 
story hooks. 
Just bear in mind that Great Maelstroms are serious stuff, not to be turned on 
and off at whim. If your players lose their respect for the power of the storm outside 
by being able to cavort in the great unliving outdoors at will, they’re going to lose 
much of the flavor of the setting. If, however, you just give them brief breaks in the 
storm, small windows of opportunity for new arrivals or escapees to appear on the 
scene, then you can keep the tone of Ends of Empire-era Wraith much better. 
Also, bear in mind that certain Arcanoi - 
Argos leaps to mind, as does the 
Dark Arcanos Tempest-Weaving - 
are going to become problematical in a storm- 
bound setting. Think about these and other potential concerns that players may 
have, especially if their entire character concepts were built around Helldiving or 
conveying souls through the Tempest, and they now find themselves left on the 
sidelines. There’s plenty for everyone to do in the post-apocalyptic Shadowlands. 
The trick is making sure that people find it. 


A NFW BRFFD 
OE HUNTFRS 
by Ken Cliffe 
HUNTER: THE R E C K O N I N C ~ M L ~ ~ S M I N D ’ S  
EYE THEATEE 
The title Drew much says it all: There’s a new breed of hunters abroad in the World 
testament to the transformation that has overcome them. 
-
,
 
of Darkness. They’re human beings who have suddenly discovered the existence of real- 
life blood drinkers, wolfmen, wizards, ghosts, zombies and goblins. These people have 
been confronted with the realization that humanity is not at the top of the order or even 
in charge of things. They’ve learned the hard way that the lives they’ve always lived have 
been lies, spoon-fed to them by monsters intent on keeping humanity blind, deaf and 
dumb. These ordinary-turned-enlightened people now know that they are a subjugated 
race, mere cattle or playthings in unfathomable supernatural games. 
With knowledge comes power and with all these revelations, hunters arise as a 
seemingly new force to be reckoned with. They will not stand idly by while family and 
friends are oppressed or killed. They will not allow people to be dominated by unearthly 
beings. They will not rest until humanity is free. By strength or will or reason, they will 
inherit the Earth they thought they always had but, in truth, have always been denied. 
Hunter: The Reckoning is the latest Storyteller game set in the modem World of 
Darkness. It breaks the mold of previous White Wolf games in that the common man is 
now empowered to rise up against the forces of darkness that have reigned since the dawn 
of history. Creatures are the antagonists, not the protagonists, of this game. Sure, you’ve 
always had the opportunity to play mortal humans before, whether with The Hunters 
Hunted, The Inquisition or Laws of the Hunt for Mind’s Eye Theatre. However, 
Hunter is not a second edition or update of any of those books. The characters of this 
game are completely new to the World of Darkness. Not that they were born yesterday, 
of course - 
they’ve always been here among the human masses. Yet cosmologically 
speaking, they were born yesterday. 
In recent months, everyday people - 
steelworkers, temps, teachers, brick layers - 
have suddenly and shockingly awoken to the fact that monsters lurk in the shadows. 
These horrifying discoveries always come unexpectedly with no warning other than a 
bizarre sensation such as hearing a voice when no one is around or seeing a street sign 
change inexplicably from “Walk” to “Run.” In that moment of disorientation, certain 
individuals find themselves face-to-face with the most hideous things they have ever 
witnessed - 
walking abominations, affronts to nature itself. How each person responds 
depends on her identity, but most endowed with such terrifying clarity act, whether to 
attack the creature, protect oblivious bystanders or to confront the thing to simply 
understand it. The fact that such people now wield bizarre powers of various stripes is 


At the moment of apotheosis, called the “imbuing,” a hunter is created - 
a person 
seemingly chosen to witness the truth of the world and empowered by some unknown 
force to contend with it forever after. Once a person is imbued, she possesses the 
capability to perceive monsters wherever they hide. Their illusions fade, their disguises 
peel away, their true faces are made manifest. The world is no longer what it was - 
it is 
now home to nightstalkers, beasts and horrors. 
How a newly imbued hunter deals with all this information is, as before, based on 
her identity: on her will to remain sane, her capacity to accept what she learns and her 
ability to acknowledge that her world is not the real one. Many go mad. Others kill 
themselves rather than face facts. A determined few piece together their new existence 
and set out to do something about it. These last are the source of Hunter: The 
Reckoning. 
However, these kinds of people can also belong to your Mind’s Eye Theatre games. 
The imbued offer an excellent change of pace -and surprise -for a new or ongoing live- 
action chronicle. Imagine a chapter in which various players are assigned the roles of 
mortals. Players portraying anything from vampires to changelings must interact among 
and around the usual “cattle.” Nothing new. In fact, it’s just what the Supernatural are 
accustomed to after ages of practice. Now imagine that, without warning, a handful of 
those mortals suddenly “wake up” - 
they see vampires hidden in shadows, they stand 
defiant against Garou in Crinos form, they look straight into the eye of the restless dead, 
or they pierce directly through to changelings’ fae mien. Not only that, these people, the 
scales tom from their eyes, have powers never seen before. And whether directed by an 
unseen hand, granted divine grace or invested with instinctive understanding, these 
mortals know how to use their newfound capabilities to deadly effect. That’s when the 
shit really hits the fan. 
What becomes of these imbued people and the creatures they oppose is ultimately 
up to you and your troupe. Would-be hunters might be decimated. Monsters may be slain. 
It all depends on the kinds of characters who participate in your ongoing game. However, 
in the long run, a new kind of protagonist is introduced to live-action roleplaying. This 
kind of human might be intent on destroying all creatures and delivering the fate of any 
supernatural who fails to cover his tracks carefully. Or an imbued could be sympathetic 
to monsters, suspecting that they might have been human once and could be again; it’s 
just a matter of bringing the creatures back over from the other side. Either way, players 
of vampires or werewolves are forced to be wary, either to stay alert for fear of unprovoked 
attack from a once-docile humanity, or for fear of being confronted with memories or 
thoughts of a life left behind long ago when days were still numbered or the mundane 
world was reality. 
Mind’s Eye is also an ideal tool with which to depict the development of a hunter. 
The days and weeks following her change are torment for one of the imbued. These 
characters witness monsters everywhere - 
on the street, at work, at church, even in the 
home. The worst part is that no one else sees these things, nor do they understand what 
your character is talking about. Is she cracking up? Has she gone mad? Suspicious co- 
workers look at her askance. Loved ones grow distant. Trying to explain what your 
character sees and knows just drives everyone away - 
and maybe, just maybe, your 
friends and family avoid you because they are not human! 
Roleplaying this isolation and decline offers amazing dramatic opportunities. 
Imagine a seemingly crazed person making “random” appearances in an otherwise normal 
Masquerade game. Is she a newly sired Malkavian, perhaps? Clearly not when the 


“madwoman” reappears in the next chapter, now reconciled with reality and prepared to 
contend with the beings she has seen over and over and finally understands. 
Confronting solo imbued in your live-action game is just one option. Although 
hunters have powers and the ability to see the supernatural, they are still mortal, and they 
can be killed - 
especially solitary ones. Consider this: Questioning their own sanity, the 
recently imbued turn to friends and loved ones, perhaps even the police to tell their story. 
Their responses are shock, pity and maybe even more trouble, such as incarceration “for 
their own good.” The rest of humanity just doesn’t understand. 
So who do you, witness to monstrosities and endowed with unfathomable capabili- 
ties, turn to? Some find solace among the others at the scene of the change, the other 
“ordinary people” who saw that first creature and wielded amazing power, too. Maybe 
they will understand. 
Whether you return to the scene of the crime in hopes of finding the others, go 
online in search of people like you or simply search the city for your “companions.” you 
might eventually discover fellow imbued. The result is typically a group of hunters: people 
who initially seek reassurance that they’re sane but who suddenly realize that they must 
stick together. After all, if they’re not insane, the world must be. 
Imagine agroup ofplayers with mortal characters who are imbued in one live-action 
event. Then, two or three sessions later, they return, this time unified, trained in their 
capabilities and with a potentially extreme prejudice against the creatures of the night. 
By introducing this element, Hunter: The Reckoning can make for a significant 
addition to your live-action roleplaying experiences. The game allows you to expand 
beyond the possibilities of mortal characters. It also lets you change the terms by which 
supernatural characters play. Not all mortals are mere pawns and food anymore. Some 
can turn and fight back - 
with amazing powers. 
Of course, Hunter only exists in tabletop format. However, its setting is the same 
as that of all the other Storyteller games, Mind’s Eye included. Thus, you can always 
adapt Hunter’s unique rules and powers over for use in your live-action games, and presto: 
a whole new kind of character to stalk the night. Then again, it might only be a matter 
of time before official live-action rules for the imbued come to light.. .. 
For now, consider translating Hunter characters as introducing a new kind oflive- 
action experience. The imbued are the common people faced with the brutal extremity 
of the World of Darkness. That’s the real fun of the game. They’re not secret agents or 
members of some occult secret society. They’re regular Toes and Janes thrust into 
situations way beyond their comprehension. When was the last time your live-action 
troupe had fun playing regular people? 


House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL 
Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail.com 
Onyx Illuminatus; Charleston, SC 
Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmaiI.com 
OTHERS 
( U N S ~ E C I E I E D A N D  
MIXED ~ A M E S )  
East of the River; Vernon, CT 
http://www.geocities.com/-narrator 
katzmeowQkalama.com 
D. Scott Stewart; 
Storytelle&LRSGames.com 
Fortress of the Mind’s Eye; Lansing, MI 
Aaron Ledger, ledgeraa@pilot.msu.edu 
(517) 372-1452 
Coordinatrix@hotmaiI.com 
Nox Imperium; Longview, WA 
Outlands; South King County, WA 
tsigane@wizards.com 
Trails End Troupe; Salem, OR 
q A M E S  A R O U N D  T H E  W O R L D  
UNITED 
KINC~DOR 
Vampire LARP; Cambridge, England 
Vampire LARP; Greenwich, England 
Scott Sommerville, 
David Young, 
some@globalnet.co.uk 
dad-pm&2snokeadmiifreegme.co.uk 
Mage LARP; Darlington, England 
VampireLARP; High Wycomhe by Night 
JonnikissQhotmail.com 
Contact Ritch or Barry, +44 (0) 149 445 
0570 
Garou LARP; Darlington, England 
Jonnikiss@hotmail.com 
Mage LARP; Hampshire, England 
Vampire LARP; Darlington, England 
Jonni kiss@hotmail.com 
Grim@postmort.demon.co.uk 
Vampire LARP; London, England 
Angus Abranson, 
+44 (0) 181 343 4960 
Vampire LARP; minhurgh, Scotland 
an~us@cubic~e7~freeserve~co~uk 
Kevin Drugan, 
kevin@gehenna.presteI.co.uk 
Vampire LARP; Glasgow, Scotland 
David Evans, 
misty@mudhole.spodnet.uk.com 
Vampire LAW; Manchester, England 
Kyne Brooker, 
Mfnx6kab@fsl.art.man.ac.uk 
Mage LARP; Oxford, England 
Martin Lloyd, 
martin@shadowgallery.freeserve.co.uk 
-8 


C O U R A ~ E  
00000 
BLOOD 
0000000000 
0000000000 
0000000000 
LloLloooo0oo 
WILLPOWER 
NAME 
CHABACTER 
CHRONICLE 
CLAN 
C~ENEEATION 
NATURE 
DEMEANOR 
