I 
I 
I 
I
I
WELCOME TO THE 
MIND‘S EYE THEATRE JOURNAL, 
THE MAGAZINE THAT PICKS UP WHERE OTHER 
MIND’S EYE PUBLICATIONS LEAVE OFF. 
THIS ISSUE PRESENTS: 
THE FIRST PART OF MET’S LOOK AT WRAITH: 
A LOOK AT THE BUNYIP FOR LAWS OF THE 
WYLD WEST. 
THE EINHERJAR OF THE DARK AGES. 
THE GREAT WAR. 


I 
BFCAUSF THF MIND’S FYF NFVFR BLINKS 


CRFD 
Auth 
Langlois, 
Deve 
Editc 
Art I 
Phot1 
Fron 
Layo 
WHAT 
Issue 
Live-ac 
Tips on 
Article: 
A look 
Issue 
Live-ac 
World 
A hum: 
A look 
releases o 
Issue 
The sec 
The COI 
Live-AI 
C A M E  s 
Oblivion, ( 
of Jade, Ex 
reserved. A 
mention o 
cowright c 
wolf..com; : 
ITS 
tors: Bruce Baugh, Richard E. Dansky, Laura Hanson, Jason 
Steve McDonald, James A. Moore, Peter Woodworth 
:loper: Carl Bowen 
r: Richard Ruane 
Xrector: Aaron Voss 
ographer: Laura Robles 
t and Back Cover Design: Aaron Voss 
ut and Typesetting: Aaron Voss 
YOU’VE MISSED 
h #2 
tion Nunnehi rules 
I starting and maintaining a long-running chronicle 
3 on the Camarilla organization and One World by Night 
at how Mind’s Eye Theatre has changed and grown over time 
! #3 
tion rules for playing the Thallain of the Shadow Court 
3f Darkness Fiction 
an’s perspective on the terrors that stalk the World of Darkness 
ahead at one of the most eagerly anticipated Mind’s Eye Theatre 
f the year 
: #4 
xets of the wraiths of the Jade Empire. 
nclusion of the Mayday! Chronicle. 
ction Mage rules.. . sort of. 
0 
2coO White Wolf Puhlishmg, Inc All nghts leserved. 
BLvD. 
Repducaon rvlthout the wntten permmion of the 
puhlisherisexprerslyforbidden,exceptforthepurposesof 
reviews. and for blank h c t e r  sheets, which may be 
735 PARK 
SUITE 128 
Axensid, World of &knes and A k L t  areu- 
tered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
T U D l O  
rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
=hangelmg the Dreami, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolfthe Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers 
I~iththe~tWar,Trinity,Min~sEye7heatreJoumal, 
Mind’s EyeTheatre, DarkKingdm 
rk lGngdom of Jade Advenm, Wolves of the Sea, Werewolf the Wild West Companion, Rage 
world Volume 2 and Ends of Empire are tradema& of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights 
Jl characters, names, places and text herein are copyrightdby White Wolf Publishing, Inc ?he 
for reference to any company or prcduct in the pages is not a challenge to the hadend or 
mxxmed. This book uses the s u p e m a d  for sem, characters and themes. All mystical and 
alelem~tsarrfictionandintendedforentertaipurposesonly.R~~discretionisadvlsed. 
(Ihite Wolf catalog call 1-800454-WOLF. Checkout White Wolfonlime at http://www.white- 
dt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.stotyteller 
W O U ~  USA 


BECAUSE THE MIND’S FrYF N F V F R  BLIK lis 
TABLE 
OE CONTENTS 
WELCOME 
TO THE MIND’S 
€YE THEATRE 
JO U RN A L  
DEADC~UY 
SPEAKS 
from Yours Truly 
by Richard E. Dansky 
MEMORIES 
AND F x c u s ~ s  
by James A. Moore 
THE 
WOLVES 
OE THE SEA 
by Jason Langlois 
BUNYIP 
IN THF SAVAC~F 
WEST 
by Peter Woodworth 
WRAITH: 
THE 
 REA AT WAR 
by Bruce Baugh 
DARK 
WATERS 
DISTANT 
by Steve McDonald 
COSTUMINC~ 
EOR LIVE-ACTION 
PLAY 
by Laura Hanson 
€VENT HORIZON 
4 
6 
I1 
21 
31 
44 
60 
65 
TABLE 
OP CONTENTS 
0 


WELCOME 
TOTHF MIND’S EYE THEATRE 
t 
J o URNAL . 
Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the fifth issue of the MET 
Journal; the first issue of the year 2000! If you’re reading these pages, chances 
are good that civilization didn’t actually come to an end when our computer- 
ized clocks turned over at midnight January 1st. If it did end and you’re still 
reading, I applaud your dedication. For those of you who are new to the 
publication, let me take a second to acquaint you with just what you’ve got 
here. (For those who’ve read this before, you may skip ahead to “Deadguy 
Speaks.” If you do, however, you’ll miss the big news at the end.) 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps in 
your White Wolf LARP environment. We offer rules for new character types, 
original story lines to work into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games 
under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won’t find in any 
other Mind’s Eye release. Plus, you’ll find answers to the questions that have 
plagued you, original World of Darkness fiction and columns from people 
who’ve been LARPing or working here at White Wolf (or both) for years. 
In this issue, we take a look at the wraithly environment of the Great War 
era, the dying Bunyip of the Savage West and vampire Vikings known as the 
einherjur. And that’s just a sample of what’s in store for you here. We’ll also take 
a look at what you’ve missed in previous issues (if you’re joining us late) and 
what to expect in thefutureofMind’sEyeTheatre and White Wolf ingeneral. 
In future issues of the Journal, we’ll present some of the material that had 
to be left out of Laws of the East, tips on how to deal with character death.and 
some expanded information on the hideous fomori. 
And you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on your 
opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us questions 
about the features and rules you see here, as well as notes about the broken rules 
you come across in different MET publications. Send us horror stories about 
games gone wrong and how your player characters fixed them. We’re interested 
in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and we want to know what you think. 
Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; 
we’ve got something for everybody. And if we don’t have it yet, let us know. 
We’ll get it for you. 
Curl Bowen, Developer 
curl@white-wolf.com 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theutre J o u d  Developer 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
USA 


THIS 
JUST IN! 
Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal Subscriptions 
We are now offering a subscription to the Mind’s Eye Theatre 
Journal series. This service is slightly different from the standard game 
and fiction services we offer, since it’s more like a conventional magazine 
subscription. You pay a one-time price for a year’s subscription of four 
issues, published quarterly. The standard subscription costs $3 1.80, but 
members of the Camarilla fan club pay only $25.44. 
We pay to ship the Journal to you. 
Issues are non-returnable. 
You can cancel your subscription at any time. 
Your subscription will begin with the next available issue, not with 
the current issue. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre subscriptions are available for residents of the 
continental United States only. Subscriptions are not available for 
international customers and residents of Hawaii and Alaska. Obviously, 
subscriptions must be placed with a credit card so that they can be 
charged and shipped automatically. 
We offer this service for customers who have trouble finding the full 
line of White Wolf products. If you have a local retail store that supplies 
your every need, please support it! 
Once you receive your fourth issue, simply order another year from 
our website. It’s easy! 


DFADCjUY SPFAKS 
YOUR 
E A N ~ S  
ARE R I ~ H T  
PUR= 
by Richard Dansky 
I can’t dunce with them. I’m Toreador. They’re Nosferatu. 
- 
An unnamed LARPer at the first ICC 
It’s spring, and young LARPers thoughts are turning to love. Actually, as I’m writing 
this it’s early fall and North Carolina is bilge-pumping its way out from under Hurricane 
Floyd’s drooling problem. So while I wait for the floodwaters to recede, now is as good a time 
as any to discuss something that’s been weighing on my mind for a while. 
One of the most remarkable things about live-action roleplaying, and Mind’s Eye 
Theatre in particular, is that it is about as gender balanced as the roleplaying industry gets. 
(Yes, I know that there are exceptions to the rule out there, unfortunately they’re 
exceptions. Don’t write in with angry comments about your all-female Warhammer 40K 
game. I’d be forced to post the letter, and then you’d be inundated with hordes of desperate 
guys who’d want to show you their Gorkamorkas). The sad fact of the matter is that people 
who play hobby games are still predominantly male, despite a slow trend toward gender 
balance over the last decade or so. The lone real exception to this slant toward the surging 
seas of testosterone is, strangely enough, live-action roleplaying. (And again, just because 
your game doesn’t follow this trend doesn’t mean that it’s representative, honest - 
there 
are plenty of other people out there who just aren’t as cool as you are.) Depending on whom 
you ask, MET games average anywhere from 35% to 50% female, which is really remarkable 
for an outgrowth of an industry whose stereotypical image is five guys huddling around a 
table in someone’s parents’ basement. 
Of course, there’s been one unforeseen outgrowth of the fact that a growing number 
of women are using MET as their first tentative step into the gudgeon-infested waters of 
roleplaying. Namely, it’s that a growing number of women are using MET as their first 
tentative step into the gudgeon-infested waters of roleplaying, and the guys who were 
formerly lords of the game preserve have no idea what to do now that their game has been 
infiltrated by (Gasp! Shudder!) gurn*ls. While most men who roleplay are genuinely glad 
to see more gender balance in their hobby - 
for one thing, it cuts down on the number of 
heavily bearded bikers who are claiming to be waiflike Toreador named Mitzi - 
there are 
a few adjustments that have to be made by folks who just can’t get used to the notion that 
roleplaying isn’t just a boys’ club anymore. For one thing, they have to leave that dog-eared 
copy of Cult of Ecstasy home instead of passing it around during Storyteller breaks. For 
another, naming characters “Benjamin Dover,” “Richard Dover” and “Eileen Dover” is 
right out, as is spending endless hours trying to convince the Storyteller that you really do 
need to create a Brothels Influence for your character because “he’s one bad mack daddy of 
a vampire pimp who needs his hos.” (If the Storyteller is wise, he’ll flip the player in question 
a box of ho-hos at this point, which often serves as a suitable distraction, as well as an in- 
game prop that doesn’t violate the no-weapons policy.) 
Thankfully, gender integration of a Mind’s Eye Theatre game usually flenses much of 
the middle-school-level bathroom humor out of the game’s foundation (although not 
always - 
there’s inevitably some genius who thinks that he’s getting away with something 
because he’s given his Garou a name like “Licks-Own-Eyebrows”). Unfortunately, in 
addition to removing that particular flavor of idiocy, the growing gender-integration of 
LARPs brings with it an entirely new and terrifying problem. 
That problem is romance, or the imagined possibility thereof. 


I
_
 
form intended to dismiss the possibility ’or worthwhile nature of same-sex romance in the 
LARPing community. I will say, however, that this column concerns itself with the 
romantic entanglements arising from the influx of women into MET, which means we’re 
primarily talking about those wacky breeders here. 
Seriously, let’s look at the situation. Roleplaying can become a profoundly intense 
activity. Intense activities produce intense emotions, and seasoning the whole mess with 
hormones percolated by stylish costumes and low-cut dresses doesn’t help. The line between 
a character’s feelings and a player’s feelings can get a trifle blurred, particularly when people 
indulge in romantic plot lines in an effort to make their games more adult. It can get tricky, 
to say the least. People mistake in-character feelings for out-of-character ones. Character 
conflicts can spill over into out-of-play relationships, or out-of-play squabbles can be 
brought into play with disastrous consequences. Let’s face it, do you really want to be playing 
the character your best friend’s SO decides to have an in-character affair with on the night 
they have a big fight? Or how about seeing the gentleman who’s had a crush on your lady 
love for months trying to initiate a romantic “plot” with her that just might be an attempt 
to get closer to her in preparation for making an actual play in real life? And let’s not even 
get into the possibility of a couple of players having a bitter breakup and splitting the game 
down the middle. After all, Isaac’s friends don’t want to roleplay with Ginny’s friends, and 
Ginny’s friends don’t want to roleplay with Isaac’s, and suddenly the Storyteller is running 
twice as many games because her marvelous, tight-knit little LARP has been split in two. 
In short, then, romantic entanglements gone wrong can wreak a world of harm on a 
game. There are preventative measures that can be taken, of course. Warning players before 
each game to keep their in-game and out-of-game affairs separate at least makes them think 
twice before trundling off for an “In-character nekkid Thaumaturgy lesson” in the broom 
closet. Keeping an eye out for inappropriate behavior during games (yes, the “No Touching” 
rule applies even to consensual fondling of the one-eyed trouser snake, and don’t try to tell 
me it’s a “new kind of animal ghoul”) is also important. In addition, players should remember 
that there’s a world of difference between playing a character who’s an unrepentant sexist (or 
worse) in-game and offending other players for real with that sort of behavior. At no point 
should the verisimilitude of roleplaying take precedence over the very real concerns of the 
people behind the characters. I don’t care if it’s “in character” to indulge in nonconsensual 
scenarios or the like. There are just some lines you don’t cross, even in a game situation. 
Still, once all of the minefields have been crossed and the potential tiger pits dodged, 
there’s every chance that at any given game, a couple of folks are going to - 
for lack of a 
better term - 
hook up. The concept makes a great deal of sense, actually. I mean, when a 
LARPer meets a LARPer a-comin’ through the rye (or the arts center or the basement of 
the local YMCA or wherever), they’ve got astep up on any other potential relationship they 
might have. After all, they’re already assured of being past the necessity of trying to explain 
their weird roleplaying hobby to a prospective sweetie. Even better, they’ve got at least one 
shared interest, not to mention a nigh-infinite source of cheap dates. There’s less chance 
than usual that there’s going to be relationship strife over spending money on, say, 
roleplaying books rather than roses, and you can always explain away that case ofwandering 
eye as the result of the Toreador clan weakness. (Note: Make sure you’re actually playing 
a Toreador when you try that one. Otherwise, you’re liable to discover precisely how thick 
the new edition of Laws of the Night is when your former sweetie makes you eat it.) 
Still, even with all of these advantages, there are still tremendous obstacles standing 
in the way of true MET romance. The LARPers themselves lovingly erect most of those 
obstacles, but then again, the course of true love ne’er did run smooth. In all honestly, where 


LARP is concerned, the course of true love tends to stagger drunkenly and carom off the 
occasional wall, but even so, the point’s the same. It’s not easy. 
A big part of the problem is communication. After all, it’s hard enough to tell when 
someone’s attracted to you in real life. When you slather characters over that, the confusion 
factor increases exponentially. Just to test this theory, the fine folks at White Wolf hooked 
electrodes up to the cranium of a fresh-faced young male LARPer of more than standard 
attractiveness and then recorded his thoughts. What they got was quite enlightening: 
“She digs me. She really digs me. No, wait, she doesn’t dig me, she digs my character. 
Good thing I took Study as a Social Trait. Hmm. Maybe she really digs me. I dig her. Well, 
I dig her character. I haven’t actually met her. If she’s anything like her character, I would 
dig her, though. I wonder if she’s anything like her character. I wonder if she’s wondering 
if I’m anything like my character. I wonder if she’s wondering about my wondering about 
her wondering. She winked. I think her character digs me. I think I need to go sit in a dark 
corner and shake for half an hour. I wonder if she digs shaking in dark comers.. ..” 
Unfortunately, the test subject’s head exploded at this point, and any further data was 
lost as the valiant researchers were forced to scrape his brains off the ceiling tiles lest they 
lose the deposit on the lab. The point, however, is clear. Communication on the ever- 
touchy matter of attraction is extremely, extremely difficult even at the best of times. 
(In case you were wondering, by the way, she really did dig him, which is pretty much 
a tribute to the poor kid’s remarkable personality. After all, no one looks all that studly with 
electrodes sticking out of his brain.) 
With that in mind, here are afew basic tips to make communication in matters like this 
a bit more straightforward and prevent the loss of more perfectly innocent ceiling tiles. 
Guys, if a woman at the game says “Hi,” she means (and I know you’re not going to 
believe me when I say this, but trust me here) “hi.” She’s being polite. She’s making asocially 
acceptable greeting with the minimum number of syllables possible. She most emphatically 
does not mean “Shanghai me to your lair in the Scottish Highlands, you ravishing black- 
clad brute, and help me to raise a litter of sturdy little hellions to someday wear your adopted 
clan tartan.” Be thankful she’s actually using a spoken syllable, rather than a curt nod. The 
best thing to do is to say “Hi” back. 
Trust me here. If she actually wants to hold a discussion with you or spend more time 
in your company, she’ll demonstrate it with (Gasp!) multi-syllabic words. However, if you 
take a simple greeting as anything more than what it actually is, you instantly get yourself 
filed under “DO Not Speak To, Even if the Fate of the Human Race Depends on It.” Don’t 
think I’m kidding, either. Desperation is not an attractive personality trait, and seizing on 
a simple greeting as an expression of a barely contained lascivious longing is pretty much 
equivalent to tattooing the word Desperate on your forehead, pectorals and inner thighs as 
far as indicators go. 
However, gents, if you do respond in a manner that proves that you don’t think savoir 
fuire is the next town over from Perth Amboy, you might actually put yourself in a position 
to have a meaningful, interesting conversation. Mind you, that’s not the same as guarantee- 
ing that you’ll be an irresistible studmuffin, but owning your own Lear Jet is about the only 
thing that can guarantee that. While you’re waiting for your first billion to accrue, though, 
decent conversation with someone who thinks that you’re more highly evolved than a 
foraminifera isn’t necessarily too shabby. Besides, it can make a great starting point - 
it’s 
always nice when the woman you’re interested in doesn’t automatically look at you like 
you’re a month-old bowl of egg salad. 
On the other hand, ladies, bear in mind that any gentleman worth his salt is desperately 
trying to avoid looking, well, desperate. He’s going to do everything in his power to separate 


himself from the drooling cape-clad hordes. Mostly, that translates to being willfully 
chivalrous above and beyond the call of duty. Because it would be the lizard-brained 
horndog thing to do to notice when someone is expressing interest in him, your basic Decent 
Gent is going to go out of his way not to notice when someone’s flashing the come*hither 
sign. It doesn’t matter if the sign is 40 feet tall and made of neon and depleted uranium; he’s 
going to make a manful, chivalrous effort not to notice it. 
Unfortunately, there’s no quick and easy way around that sort of deliberate self- 
flagellation. (Figurative, folks, it’s figurative. Put the riding crops down and relax.) The best 
thing to do is simply to open up a friendly conversation and let the poor boy’s own baser 
instincts betray him. After all, it’s a lot easier to ask forgiveness than permission, and it’s a 
lot harder for even the most self-sacrificing LARPer to flog himself over his self-described 
boorish behavior when it’s bloody obvious that any expressed interest is mutual. 
Of course, the big mistake that most LARPers make when trying to win themselves 
dates is one that’s actually quite easy to avoid. Unfortunately, once the fake fangs go in, the 
common sense goes out, at least on this issue. Simply put, when it comes time to strut their 
best stuff, entirely too many MET players instead chose to show how witty, talented, 
powerful and attractive their characters are. Now a man more snide than myself (if such a 
man exists) might say that this is why it’s really called fantasy roleplaying, but I think it’s 
just a matter of folks wanting to show off something they’re proud of. 
Unfortunately, there’s no easy way to say this: They Can’t Date Your Character 
Instead Of You. Ahem. Sorry about that, but it needed to be said. Seriously though, think 
about it. Why on earth would you waste your time showing off how butch your character (the 
personality you borrow on the occasional weekend) is, when you really want someone to be 
interested in you? Sure, it’s fun to show off and tell war stories, but if you ever think your 
character stands a better chance of going home from the game with company than you do, 
it’s time to stop working on advancing your character and start working on advancing 
yourself. 
Then again, getting the relationship going is only half the battle. Sustaining it in the 
face of overwhelming odds is the hard part. It’s a truism that one of the most attractive 
qualities aperson can have is to be attached. That means that the first game after aromantic 
connection is established is liable to look like an outtake from the new Fox special, “World’s 
Most Desperate Swarms,” as newly interested parties of all genders and orientations descend 
on the happy couple. The attention can be head turning, and God help the poor fool whose 
head actually does get turned. If he’s lucky, he’ll just get slapped. If he’s not, he’ll suddenly 
acquire a reputation as a “LARP slut” that he won’t be able to remove with anything short 
of joining the Federal Witness Protection Program. 
One of the most common strategies used to ward off the swarms of would-be paramours 
is exaggerated affectionate behavior. Technically known as “PDA,” or “Public Displays of 
Affection,” this technique includes (but is not limited to) cuddling, using of pet names even 
in character, game breaks for smooches and quickies in the broom closet. While this approach 
definitely lets the world know that someone is taken, it runs a definite risk. After all, there’s 
only so much sickly sweet romanticism that immortal lords of the night can endure. After one 
too many “Sweeties” or “Snookylumpums,” other players might be willing to test the 
boundaries of the “no touching” rule with buckets of ice water. Conversely, they may mistake, 
“Get a tomb,” for, “Get a room,” and stake the cute couple just to shut them up. 
Still, excessive uses of Chill of the Windsaber can’t halt true love (although excessive 
Peter Cook imitations can come close). Every so often, luck, skill, devotion and love 
triumph, and a couple of soul mates find each other through MET. If you are one of the lucky 
few to find marital bliss with someone you met at a game, I just have one humble request 
for you: 


For the love of God, do not have a Vampire-themed wedding. Yeah, yeah, it 
commemorates how you met. It’s certain to be a big hit with your friends from the game. It’ll 
freak your parents, and it might even cut down on the catering bill, depending on how far 
you take the gag. But remember, in 10 years, you’re going to have to explain it to your kids, and 
they’re going to want to know why you two looked like such rampaging dorks. Trust me, 
you’ll look back at your wedding pictures and they’ll look as hip and edgy as the wedding 
scene in the Rocky Horror Picture Show, hopefully with fewer instances of Tim Curry. 
The fact that you and your SO found each other through the game is heartening, charming 
and (ultimately) a reaffirmation of everything good about the game. But frankly, even the 
folks who make the game wouldn’t get that excited about it. Cherish the memory, but make 
sure the new ones you make are ones you can live with. 
- Ad$- 


MFMORIFS AND FXCUSFS 
by James A. Moore 
Jim Moore has written for many White Wolf books in the company’s history. He 
has covered all manner of subjects fiom hunters to fomuri to the mysterious Shih. In 
this story, Jim brings his considerable range to bear, showing us how the times may 
change, but the things that make us who we are never do. 
It’s cold here. But then, most places seem cold to me. 
I remember the warmth of the Valley of the Kings, and in comparison to the 
glory of the sun on the Nile, most places seem chilled and desolate. Kristin liked to 
call me a romantic, but even after all these years, I fear I am merely a sentimentalist. 
I like to remember better times and warmer hearts than the ones I encounter in the 
modem age. 
Even those few I can call fnends - 
those whom I’ve encountered again and again 
over the centuries - 
seem to have lost the warmth and passion that once made them 
so vibrant and alive. Of my own kind, the Reborn, there are only a few I would even 
consider speaking to. Even then, my association with them would be a courtesy, not 
because I care for them. We might fight for the same things, but we have nothing in 
common except a long-standing hatred for Set and his ilk. But even that dulls with time. 
There was a time when I was more adventurous, more enthusiastic than I am 
these days. I made many friends in that distant past and, from time to time, I still have 
occasion to meet with old acquaintances. 
And they too have grown colder, those few who were not taken by Death in the 
course of the last 5,000 years. Or perhaps it is I who have forgotten the passions of 
life. I cannot judge the truth in these matters. I am simply not capable of deciphering 
the facts from my memories. Sometimes the truth hides behind fond memories and 
other times it remains buried beneath the nightmares that have haunted me for as 
long as I can remember. 
The first time I met Kristin Breiner was one of the golden moments for me, one 
of those rare, almost magical times when I ran across a kindred spirit. I had never met 
anyone quite like her. However, at the time, I did not immediately realize that she 
was in fact a woman. All I saw was the armor she wore, the weapons she carried and 
the rage in her eyes as she struck down her foes in the name of the Christian god. She 
rode with the crusaders, tearing into Jerusalem with a fury that was admirable, and 
a thirst for blood that was terrifying. 
I was in Jerusalem, visiting with another of my kind whom I had last seena lifetime 
ago, when the Christians came to claim the city as their own. Their righteous 
indignation was real in some cases, but in others it was obviously a simple veil to 
obscure the greed with which they came to plunder what they had no legitimate claim 
to. Greed. It’s always there, always waiting to suck the minds and morals away from 
anyone who dares get too close and make even the most civilized of us revert to 
barbarism. Greed may die in individuals, but it lives on in the human spirit. 


became obsessed with the belief that anyone who lived a different lifestyle must 
surely be evil and therefore expendable. Never mind that the people might have rich 
cultures filled with beautiful stories and wonderful wisdom. Put aside that these 
others also had lives, loves and ambitions. They were different, and that was excuse 
enough. Many were the creatures other than human that met with death in those 
times. The fae vanished from the world and took with them the best parts of the past. 
They left behind a world filled with bitter, frustrated souls looking to lash out and 
return the pain and loss they experienced. 
Those souls were very successful in spreading the misery and woe around for all 
to share. And the force that held these opposing forces apart, cementing them as 
enemies and fueling their passion for blood and death was the name that almost 
always seems to drive mortals to such extremes. Religion was the culprit. 
The year was 1099, I believe, and the Crusaders came into the city with a battle 
cry that must surely have echoed through every comer of the world. Their hatred of 
the Muslims was a living, seething thing, and the greed that drove them was at least 
as vile. They swarmed through the city, killing anyone - 
regardless of age, sex or 
religious conviction - 
as if their sole purpose was to free the Christians within the 
city. I found it rather odd that these saviors came without request and killed the very 
Christians they’d allegedly come to save along with the rest of the people living in 
the place they all claimed was holy. 
For their part, I suspect they found it odd that I did not flee. Kristin certainly 
did. She approached me on her black charger with drawn, bloody sword, ready to 
cut me down where I stood, but all I did was look at her. I had already killed several 
of the Crusaders who were not wise enough to leave me in peace. I am short in 
stature, but even then, I had already spent hundreds of years learning to defend 
myself from attackers. 
I suppose she could have killedme then, but she chose not to. Instead, she looked 
into my eyes and recognized me for what I was. She saw that I, like her, was not quite 
human. For my part, I saw only the faintest hint of eyes beneath the helmet she wore, 
a great visored thing that must surely have been too large for her. 
“Why don’t you run?” she asked me, her voice hoarse from endless battle cries. 
“Why don’t you attack?” was my simple answer. 
She had to think about that one. Certainly, a great number of people had fallen 
victim to her sword in the nights before. The streets themselves were sticky with the 
blood of the slain, and their heads often adorned the walls surrounding the city. How 
odd it must have seemed to her that I, far smaller than the average person, was not 
among the dead. It was obvious that I’d made no attempt to hide myself. Finally, she 
laughed and shook her head, taking her helmet off and looking at me with eyes as 
bright as the noonday sun. “Because you are braver than you should be, or more 
foolish than most. Either way, stranger, you are not mine to take.” 
I thanked her for her kindness. She knew as well as I did that the thanks was as 
mocking as the courtesy she afforded me. She laughed again, a soft, melodic sound 
from so savage a warrior. And in that moment I knew I’d found a kindred spirit, 
another who had seen too much and done too much in a very short time. She asked 
me if I was a Follower of Set, and in a return of her earlier courtesy, I merelv said no 


instead of killing her. To me, that was evidence enough that she was something 
remarkable. That, or the simple fact that I had long ago grown tired of killing anyone 
who inadvertently offended me. Before the night was over, we had become.. . if not 
friends, at least friendly acquaintances. 
We spoke of many things through the course of that long night. We spoke of 
the differences between her people and mine. We talked of the changing face of the 
world, a place that was not as calm as either of us would have liked. In the end, we 
spoke of the mortals we’d known and cared for who had faded from our lives, stolen 
from us by the sands of time. She had watched from a distance as her son grew old 
and died. She did not want him to know of her new existence. I spoke of my beloved 
wife and her death at the hands of Set himself. We talked of philosophies and 
religious beliefs. We conversed on the strange ways in which the world had changed 
since each of us had become something other than mortal. She listened when I spoke 
of the long-gone glory days of my homeland, Khem. I, in turn, listened to the tale of 
how she had become what she now was, and how the years had changed her 
perceptions. I heard her talk of another of her kind, one she only called the Reaver, 
and her long-standing personal war with him. She did not tell me why they fought, 
and I did not ask. It’s possible that she did not even remember any more. 
Just before the sun rose, she bid me farewell and warned me to leave Jerusalem. 
While she had been willing to spare me, there were others who would not think twice 
of destroying me, and there were some whose power even one such as she had reason 
to fear. 
I wished her well and left Jerusalem behind. My fellow Reborn, with whom I had 
already finished my business, had left days before, puzzled by my need to stay and 
watch the violence that had come to that holy city. I could not have explained the 
need myself; I only knew it was real. I only understood that the violence and 
destruction should be wimessed by someone who was not involved in its making. 
Witnessed and remembered. 
... 
How many years was it before I saw Kristin again?More than I care to remember, 
and I am far too lazy to count them. Suffice to say, the world had moved on again 
before we ran across each other. The Renaissance was in full bloom by then. The 
wealthy poured their monies into employing artists to glorify their homes, and they 
worked behind the scenes to kill each other with greater subtlety than I’d have ever 
imagined the Europeans would achieve. The sciences were doing their best to push 
religions and faith to the side. They were gaining ground, but it was a slow, painful 
process. The de Medici’s were throwing yet another party, and I was their special 
guest. I was someone to show off to their friends, an educated man from the place they 
called Egypt, which was, by that time, something of a rarity. 
They meant me to be their pet for the duration of their interest. It is remarkably 
easy to forgive both ignorance and avarice when you know you will be alive long after 
the fools who show it are forgotten. I forgave the powers of that era many sins. I had 
seen them all before when they wore different clothes. Time teaches us to tolerate 
the brutish and short dreams of human life as it forces us to witness them again and 
again and again. 
Still, even my patience was being tested by the time the slim, pale hand touched 
my skin. In that time, it was rare to be touched by anyone I did not know. I was, after 


all, merely a plaything, a prize to display. Contact was normally reserved for those 
a person had feelings for or had purchased for the night. 
Although centuries had passed, I looked into Kristin’s eyes and recognized her 
immediately. The face I had last seen covered in soot and blood was clean and 
heavily painted with make up. Still, she had lost none ofher intensity. I must confess 
to being a bit surprised that she recognized me. I have never considered myself a 
remarkable or striking figure. Yet, she had seen me across a crowded room and made 
her way to my side in a matter of minutes. 
As I said before, the party had grown boring for me, and my hosts had lost 
interest in what I was doing. We moved away from their palatial estates and through 
the streets of Florence. She was dressed in finery that made it hard for me to believe 
she had once been a crusader, but then, I was hardly dressed as a follower of the 
Shemsu-heru philosophies myself. 
We spent a week together. Every night we talked and debated about the changes 
that had taken place in the world since last we met. To her way of thinking, the 
changes were all for the better. To me, they merely reflected the intellectual growth 
of a society finally moving from childhood into puberty. Surely, the power of the 
Church was as great as ever, and from her own perspective, the time of her people 
being feared had faded to distant memory. How then could this be progress? 
I wish I could explain how hard it is to find an intellectual equal when you are 
immortal. You might find sharp, even brilliant minds among the mortals, but 
discussing matters of significance with them is rather like debating the importance 
of the world’s economy with a prepubescent. They might grasp the concepts of the 
discussion, they might even get the general ideas you are approaching and find them 
insightful, but they lack the experience to truly comprehend the nuances of the 
conversation. Spending that week with Kristin made me realize how lonely 1 was for 
true companionship. And although neither of us had planned it, before our time 
together was over we had become lovers. Of a sort. 
Kristin had to move on. She meant her time in Florence to be brief, and the 
Reaver, whom she had once pursued, now returned the favor with a ferocious 
determination. Again, I refused to ask about him for fear of invading Kristin’s 
privacy. Perhaps I should have said something or become involved sooner, but she 
made it clear that such was not my place. 
Nonetheless, she had plans of her own, back in her homelands of Austria. I too 
would be leaving soon, as I had been feeling the siren call of Khem in my heart for 
many months and been weakening in my resolve never to return to the place where 
I was born. I could no longer even remember why I had chosen to stay away from 
Egypt for all time. And there were matters I had to attend to that she, despite her 
wisdom, could never know about - 
just as surely as there were events in her life that 
were beyond my comprehension. Although we had been intimate, although we had 
surely become friends, we still had our secrets from each other. We are, after all, from 
two breeds that believe in the power of secrets. 
I have often looked back on that time with a fondness that is almost unsettling. 
To scan back over the years and reflect on a few chance encounters is unnerving in 
light of the centuries I have walked the earth. We resolved to remain in contact, and 
as so often happens, we let the strength of our resolution falter as the decades moved 
past. The friends we think we can never live without, the loves who make our world 
bright and keep us safe from our personal demons fade to dim reminders of a time 


when the world seemed almost innocent. I remain awed by the power of those 
feelings, that they can hold sway over an intellect and crush reason with their 
glorious, powerful energies. Love and friendship, it seems to me, are capable of 
making even the worst possible situations seem not only survivable, but pleasant. I 
mention this merely to make a point. In my long, long life, I have only ever had a 
handful of friends. Of all of them, only Kristin remained constant. 
Yet, when we met again, we did so as enemies. 
* e *  
I had moved to the New World. I traveled through the lands that had never 
been known to exist during my first life, and 1 gathered information along the way. 
I spent almost 40 years in the region called Mexico, and during that time I 
learned things I had never expected to learn from the native Reborn - 
who called 
themselves the Xibabla, a name I have long since adopted for them. 
I met two others like myself. One was a vile creature, filled with hatred and 
sadistic glee. The other was a woman of rare beauty who learned of my people as I 
learned of hers. It was in her defense that I warred against the vampires coming from 
the north, spilling into the region like vermin. The strange part about it was that we 
didn’t realize it was the vampires moving into the area. They are subtle creatures 
when the need arises, and we foolishly thought it was only the citizens of the United 
States doing what they could to conquer still more land for their endless appetite. 
I had seen greed often enough, I thought, to recognize its new attire. 
We learned the error of our ways quickly enough. The vampires were indeed 
invading, and they were warring amongst themselves. What we’d thought was a 
simple expansionist movement was actually a civil war. Those of the undead who 
wanted to live in harmony with humans fought against those who wanted to raise 
humans as cattle and slaughter them freely. In all honesty, we had trouble tellingone 
group from another. 
I suppose it was simple naivete that made me believe that a continent with so 
few people would actually be big enough to make wars a thing of the past. The 
indigenous tribes already peopled the “New World.” The Europeans who came into 
the area weren’t happy to find more of the “godless” heathens in their way. Even 300 
or more years after the land had been discovered in the first place, there were still 
plenty of good “God-fearing Christians’’ who wanted to convert the ignorant masses 
to the their way of thinking. It didn’t matter that the very people they wished to 
educate had already been converted centuries before. It only mattered that they be 
taught the error of their ways.. . and that they be willing to accept their new teachers 
as landlords. Centuries, millennia had passed since I was Reborn, but this did not 
change: the greedy still used religion as an excuse to commit atrocities. The 
Crusades, the Inquisition and now the pioneers and their Manifest Destiny. I didn’t 
mean to be amused by the whole sordid business, but I was just the same. 
I wasn’t laughing when they attacked the hacienda where I was staying. I didn’t 
laugh at all when they burned my home to the ground and destroyed many precious 
artifacts from my distant past. My home was destroyed, and I was dragged behind a 
horse for several miles before they cut me loose. If I’d been a mortal, I’d have surely 
died. As I had a few magicsof my own, I was saved that inconvenience. I was scraped, 
bloodied and left for dead. In retrospect, I realized why they had attacked me. In 
coming from the land of the Nile, my body had taken on a hue much like that of the 


natives of the area in which I had chosen to settle. The pioneers considered me just 
another impediment to their “progress.” 
In short, they made a very bad mistake. 
I do not seek conflict very often, but when I do, I make my presence very well 
known indeed. Just as I’d spent hundreds of years learning to defend myself, I’d spent 
centuries learning how to fight and to kill. Over the centuries I’ve learned a few tricks 
about tracking down a foe. My enemies learned the hard way that I am unforgiving 
to a fault when the mood strikes me. It is not a skill I sought, but I acquired it 
nonetheless, like a taste for something vile and unexpected. 
Over the course of a week, I hunted them down and killed them from the 
shadows, until, at last, I was left with the two who were not human. I resorted to older 
tactics when I realized how little damage the bullets from my rifle did to them. I used 
a hunting bow and arrows. The first of them dropped easily, impaled on an arrow that 
ran through his back and cut deeply into his heart. He was not dead, but he would 
be before I was finished. 
That’s when she hit me from behind. Kristin used the very same tactics I had 
used to hunt down her party to hunt me down. She tracked me by my footprints, and 
she attacked when I was busy preparing her friend for the dawn’s first light. As I was 
tying his body in a spot where the sun would find him, she shot me in the back. 
I lay dying on the ground berating myself for my foolhardy arrogance. I took the 
pain as a lesson for my next incarnation. When I opened my eyes to breathe my last, 
Kristin stared into my face. Her cold blue eyes spilled tears of crimson grief upon me, 
and she held my body close as I passed beyond the mortal realms. My heart broke to 
recognize my killer, and in my last accusing glare, I saw her wither and recoil. She 
knew what she had done, and for the first time in many years, I made her feel guilty. 
I did not know the extent of her involvement in what her men did to me, but that 
did not matter. 
I did not stay dead. My kind almost never does. Kristin knew that much, and 
she did her best to make my return to the living a comfortable matter. I was buried 
in a tomb above ground rather than in a deep hole. With my body she left three 
pounds of gold and a simple note that read, ‘‘I am so very sorry. I have missed you over 
the years. Please forgive me, K.” 
I forgave her. In killing me, it’s just possible that she saved my sanity. I had fallen 
into the very trap that I saw so many others fall into, you see. I had not truly sought 
retribution for what had happened to my home or my possessions. I had settled into 
the very habits and small-minded pettiness that humans have indulged in since my 
mortal days. Even though I am so much more than they, I had fallen to their level. 
I had hunted down and killed a dozen people in order to gain satisfaction. Was I then 
any better than the Crusaders I condemned? Or the expansionists who used religion 
as an excuse to take what they wanted? 
No. I was foolish and filled with pride. I was offended that they would dare 
inconvenience me. They took material possessions from me, and in return, I took 
that most sacred of possessions from them, their very lives. I have always tried to 
remember that what I sometimes see as a curse is also a blessing. Even if I am killed, 
it is only an inconvenience. I will recover; I will go on. 


So, I forgave Kristin, and I got on with my life. In the end, I could not afford not 
to. To do otherwise in an existence devoid of anything lasting that is truly good 
would be worse than foolish. 
* a *  
We met again in the next century, sooner than I’d anticipated. I remained in 
the New World and eventually located in California. The heat of the desert sun was 
comforting. Even after years and centuries away from the warmth of the Nile, I still 
preferred the warmth of the barren places and the heat that Ra shone down upon me 
in such locales. Los Angeles was a melting pot even back then. Despite the growing 
war in Europe, the people of the United States were still optimistic. They remained 
certain that the Kaiser would be defeated and that the beliefs of their young country 
would be upheld. The war was nothing new. The optimism of the young and far- 
removed was nothing new either. All that had changed was the setting and the 
costumes. 
I found Kristin that time, instead of her finding me. She was in a bar singing 
songs for a crowd that was getting uglier by the minute. It seems that despite having 
changed her last name to Williams, someone somewhere had learned of her 
Germanic origins. That was enough to cause her grief. Even the fact that she had 
apparently owned the club and had been a popular local figure in Los Angeles for 
years by that point did not matter. 
She was dressed in a dark blue gown, and her voice carried across the room, lifted 
by angels one could almost believe, as I could hear her singing even in the farthest 
corners of the hidden den of delights. I watched her, studied her and remembered our 
previous encounters. We had met three times, and each of those encounters 
remained with me. Odd though it sounds, I still felt a connection with her, a desire 
to be near her. In a world of revolving constants, she was a familiar landmark that 
I was actually glad to see again. 
I went into the nightclub every night to hear her sing, and I wondered if I would 
ever get up the courage to make my presence known. One of the many tricks I learned 
in Mexico from the strange Reborn I met there was how to hide my true face. That 
was a talent that saved me from many a conflict over the years, and one I still employ 
regularly. Unless one can see past the extra foot of height and the change in eye hair 
and skin color, one can’t easily see any connection between the person I become and 
the person I am. If Kristin had that talent, she hid it well. 
I had finally decided to let her see me for who I am when the fight erupted. 
Kristin was between sets, talking to a couple of rather drunken mortals when one of 
them decided to have his way with her right there in the bar. Kristin very calmly 
knocked him unconscious. That was when the trouble began. The fool had friends, 
and they did not take well to his injury, despite the fact that he had brought it on 
himself. 
I realized another sad fact about human nature at that moment. Religion is not 
the only excuse used when battle is in the air. There are always other justifications. 
Although the US was not yet at war with Germany, everyone knew that it was only 
a matter of time before they stepped into the whole sordid affair. The louts in the bar 
were no exception. There were comments made about Kristin being an agent of the 
Kaiser, and then there were noises about her being a spy. 


I ask you, can you imagine any place less likely for a spy than in a nightclub in 
Los Angeles an entire ocean away from the theater of war? That didn’t seem to 
matter. All that any of the fools cared about was showing their dissatisfaction with 
the woman who’d injured their cohort. The political accusations merely gave them 
an excuse to assault her. Their actions gave me an excuse to come to her defense. 
Oh, I know she didn’t need my help. I had seen her in Jerusalem, I knew full well 
the sheer carnage she was capable of. Still, I moved to her aid just the same, and 
thrashed the three of them soundly. All the while, Kristin looked on with a mixture 
of gratitude and amusement. Afterward, Kristin took my advice and left with me, 
only discovering after the fact that I was an old acquaintance. 
Once again we talked of the past - 
a situation made more awkward by her 
continued insistence on apologizing for killing me. For a change, we actually spent 
time together. Really spent time together. We lived in comfort with each other for 
almost 15 years. However, it seems such bliss as I knew at that time wasn’t meant to 
last. I died again, taken by a gun, when a man desperate to drink the poorly made 
liquors of the time decided that my money was best for getting him inebriated. He 
didn’t even try to rob me before he shot me. I still remember the stench coming from 
his body as he pulled my wallet from by jacket pocket. I still remember the look on 
his face when he found I carried a great deal of cash. He looked triumphant. If there 
was guilt in his soul, it did not show. However, as I made my return, something about 
the man’s attack comforted me. He had made no excuses for his action. He had not 
dressed up his greed in ill-fitting self-righteousness. I almost wish he had had a 
chance to spend the money he took from me. His honesty was refreshing. 
How can I possibly know what he did with the money? That is easy enough to 
explain. Kristin left me another note. It remained in my jacket pocket along with 
$500.00 for when I once again crawled back to the land of the living from the darkness 
of the afterlife. Once again she’d been forced to leave. Her note spoke of the Reaver 
coming for her again. I didn’t know who the Reaver was, or why he pursued her so 
fanatically, but I knew I hated him. Twice he’d separated us. That was two times too 
many. But beneath that dull hatred, I knew that I was fooling myself once again. I did 
not hate this Reaver because he tormented the one I loved. I hated him because I was 
jealous of him. In his enmity, he shared with Kristin something to which I was not 
privy. She never spoke of why the Reaver made her his enemy, and that secret built 
a wall between us. I wonder now if she even realized that it was there.. .. 
0 . .  
I was without her for more years than I care to think about. By the time World 
War I1 had come around, Kristin was back in Europe, dealing with other members 
of her clan and enmeshing herself in the world of vampiric politics again. To this day 
I do not understand those politics. I don’t really want to comprehend them. They are 
not a part of my world. They could have been once, but Kristin saw that such was 
not to be. That was another part of her existence she kept secret. 
We met again last week. Kristin was in Washington D.C. for reasons I do not 
yet know and may never have a chance to understand. She looked me up in the 
phone book. After we exchanged pleasantries, we agreed to meet and talk. She had 
missed me as surely as I had missed her. 
We spent four days and nights in her hotel room. We talked, we ate -she left 
a few times to handle her particular dietary needs, but beyond that she almost 


never left my side - 
and we got to know each other again. The days went too 
slowly with her sleeping near me, close by and yet as distant as death. The nights 
were never long enough. 
I cannot say for certain if I love Kristin. I no longer know if I am even capable 
of that emotion. When you measure your life in centuries, it is difficult to know if 
the emotions you feel are real or if they are only habits and rote. When you see a 
behavior pattern expressed again and again, you adopt it as your own. When your 
only emotional contact comes from the unchanging repetition of patterns you 
learned long ago, you embrace it or make your break altogether. Be it love, greed or 
the need to make excuses, I have taken on the quality of the humans around me. 
Are they mine? Kristin would say so, I suppose. Her kind believes that the 
person you are when you become immortal is the person you remain for all eternity. 
I do not believe that. Human beings are the ones who never change. Their lives are 
too short to give them the necessary perspective. Ones like Kristin and I have that 
perspective. And yet, even Kristin’s existence will end one night. Perhaps it will 
come at the hands of this Reaver or the ravages of the sun or just the long, dreamless 
sleep of those who have no other reason to go on. I must not love her if I can look 
on this realization so calmly. In time, I will say goodbye to Kristin for a final time, 
and my life will go on. I will have no choice but to proceed. 
I don’t think I do love Kristin. She is a kindred spirit, but that is all. Like the 
rest of humanity, I have fallen into a pattern. I have created the hollow moniker of 
“love” to express the simple fact that Kristin is so very different than all else I have 
experienced. Like myself, she remains a pleasant constant in a world caught in a 
stagnant cycle. While she never changes, I can recognize that without the disap- 
pointment I feel when I see that the humanity all around her has not changed as well. 
I do not expect her to change like I keep expecting humanity to change. 
I should leave her soon. Should I stay by her side, I would only fall deeper into 
the pattern I have created. I would be no better than human should I let myself 
believe that I have found someone with whom I can pass the coming procession of 
years. I know that I am becoming more like the changing tides of humanity the 
longer I wade among them - 
set in my ways, unable to change - 
and staying with 
Kristin only exacerbates that static mire. I need to get away from that which is 
familiar and comfortable. I need to proceed. I have to move on just as the world tries 
to move on. People do not change, but perhaps I can. I have the perspective to 
become something more. I will leave Kristin in the morning, once I have said a 
proper goodbye. 
Or perhaps the morning after that.. . I have missed her so, after all. 


THF WOLVFS OE THF SFA 
V I K I N ~  
VAMPIRES 
IN THE 
L o ~ g  
N I ~ H T  
by Jason Langlois 
Known as the einherjar, the vampires of Scandinavian descent are part ofa 
fascinating and exciting culture. One of the authors of White Wolfs Wolves of the 
Sea supplement for Vampire: The Dark Ages, Jason Langlois helps brmg that culture 
to visceral unhfe in hue-action phy with this article. 
ODIN’S CHOSEN 
Fiercely individualistic and proud, the einherJar lead unlives very different 
from their European counterparts. They do not believe in the myth of Caine, nor 
do they believe themselves to be cursed. Nordic vampires come from a culture that 
traditionally praises bravery and passion in battle, and they see their state as an 
outgrowth of that tradition. As far as they are concerned, the einherJur are warriors 
Odin himself has chosen to carry on the battles they led in life and to uphold their 
religion against the spread of Christian (and Cainite) culture. Although the 
Scandinavian culture had been all but crushed under the heel of Christianity’s 
expansive influence by the “present” Long Night setting, the e h m  
still carry 
out the existence for which Odin has selected them. 
THE 
~ O O D  
Guys 
A chronicle centered on the Vikings has its appeal. If your group is small, 
playing a ship’s crew or the population of a hall during the height of the Viking Age 
(around 900 CE) can be a great deal of fun. Each session should have boasts, grand 
adventures and dangerous raids. Such a chronicle could be a wonderful break from 
an intensely political and social game, as the Norse culture emphasizes victory 
through physical achievement. 
A large group may have trouble accommodating aNorse chronicle, unless the 
players split into different (possibly competing) halls. Doing so has some advan- 
tages, as it would allow the different halls to work against each other and to form 
alliances - 
a built-in source for plots and stories. 
THE 
BAD quys 
A good use for the Norse in an ongoing, pre-establishedhng Night chronicle 
is as antagonists. The Norse roamed to many points in Europe during the Dark 
Ages, even traveling inland on horses. (The Norse were passable riders who 
dismounted to fight.) Their arrival could come as part of a raid, and thus lead to 
violent confrontation. However, the Norse were also active traders. A merchant 
visit could be areal opportunity for the Storyteller. She can have the traders spread 
rumors and bring exotic goods from far off lands, or offer to carry the characters off 
on a long ocean voyage. The Norse were expert hagglers- there are methods other 
than a raid to steal the shirt off someone’s back. after all. 


boasting. The jurl of each hall in the area attends, bringing an entourage -the bigger 
the entourage, the more powerful the jurt. This competition can often spark bigger 
arguments that can spiral into blood feuds of legendary levels. 
As well as discussion, the thing is often the site of the holmgang and einvigi. The 
holmgang is a strict one-on-one duel with limited weapons and no active Discipline 
use. The two involved parties stand within weapon range, and the accused takes 
the first swing. The two trade blows until one of them collapses, surrenders or dies. 
The winner is the last one standing. 
The einvigi is a more traditional duel in which the opponents are allowed to 
use armor and weapons of any type. The combatants fight it out in a circle of their 
comrades, who usually cheer them on and shove them back into the fight if they 
try to stray too far. Occasionally, there are rules - 
only three shields, bare hands, 
no swords, etc. -but 
otherwise this type of duel is truly unlimited. 
SOCIETY 
Norse society has a loose hierarchy, with plenty of possibility for advancement 
(and descent). There are effectively three levels to the society: Thralls were at the 
bottom, jmls were at the top, and the freemen were in between. A jurl is effectively 
any Norse leader powerful enough and rich enough to maintain a hall and table for 
his followers. A powerful jurl, with many halls under his control, could even earn 
the title of King. Thr& are the slaves or bondsmen who serve the jml. Einhqurjurls 
took prisoners captured in raids for a herd, and these slaves did the drudge-work of 
the Norse. If a freeman orjarl was to fall on hard times, he might voluntarily become 
a thrall, to ensure himself of a meal and roof. 
Freemen make up the bulk of Norse society. Freemen are the warrior farmers 
and fishermen who follow the jurls and mix trading, raiding and harvesting in equal 
parts. Freemen sworn to a jurl become huskurls, the dedicated warriors of the hall. 
These men and women are free from the responsibility to farm. Instead, they are 
expected only to fight when their jart commands. This position is an honored one, 
and it is the goal of many young warriors to achieve it. 
Norse society treats women as different, but equal. While there are gender- 
roles, the Norse take a pragmatic view. Women hold the keys to the hall, and they 
often direct the work of the farm or enclave. Occasionally, a woman can even 
become a jurl, leading the warriors of her clan on raids and expeditions. Before 
taking action, ajurl or warrior will consult with the women. 
Outside the normal status ofNorse society are the Outlaws (or vurgr) and the 
Berserks. Einheqnr Berserks are the warriors dedicated to drawing on the Beast to 
rage in battle and destroy their enemies. They eschew armor and work themselves 
to a high anger before a battle. This frenzy allows them to accomplish amazing feats, 
and many fear the Berserks - 
friend and foe. The vurgr are individuals banished 
from Norse society (and in some case, even the clan) to fend for themselves in the 
wilds. Some umgr band together to form bandit groups to prey on merchants. 
Others sign on with vampire crews to escape the dangers of the wilds. 


in single combat, or to swim a fjord in armor. At the next Althing, name the leader 
of the hall with the most fulfilled boasts King. 
CONVERSION 
A missionary group of European vampires arrives to convert the local area to 
feudalism and Christianity. This influx typically threatens local einhgar enclaves, 
stealing away their followers and forcing them to become uurgr. Or, to flip matters, 
the Norse vampires raid into Europe, threatening the holdings of the Church or 
nobles in aquest for plunder. The conflict here is between the old ways of the Norse 
and the new ways of Europe, and it is a good way to introduce the Norse into an 
existing chronicle. 
RESCUE MISSION? 
As the result of one of the Norse raids, perhaps an important character falls 
into the hands of theeinhqar who hold her for ransom. The characters can attempt 
to chase down the raiders or to seek them out in their halls to attempt a rescue of 
the kidnapped vampire. Or, perhaps the characters act as envoys sent to pay the 
ransom and open communication with the Vikings. 
BRINC~INC~ 
IT TOC~ETHER 
It is important, when running a Wolves of the Sea chronicle, to focus on the 
differences between the Norse and the Europeans. While the Norse have a much 
more coarse attitude toward life (or unlife, for that matter), they are not without 
culture and society. The two groups clash over matters of faith, predestination and 
interaction with the mortals on whom they prey. Neither side is inherently more 
“right” or justified in its actions than the other, and both types of vampires are 
driven by compelling motivations. 
RULES 
Setting a game in the High North means taking into account a variety of local 
factors. During the winter, the temperatures drop and the night gets progressively 
longer. At the same time, the mortals will hide themselves behind the doors of their 
halls. The summer will see days that seem to last forever and the migration of many 
Norse vampires to the south. 
A vampire begins each session down a Blood Trait, as normal, despite the 
extended length of the night. Keep in mind the fact that a night is longer during 
winter and vampires will be capable of more activity. Hunting tests during the 
winter requires twice as much work, since prey is harder to find. 
In the summer, the night gets shorter and shorter. A possible way to reflect this 
property in the game would be to have a session represent more than one evening. 
During the summer, a vampire finds it more difficult to accomplish tasks since the 
sun rises sooner. 
AT SEA 
If the game is to include sea travel, it is recommended that a room or area be 
designated as the “ship.” Storytellers can limit access to the ship, considering its 
overall size (a drakkar longship can carry up to 50 or so people; a knorr trade ship 


NEW ROADS 
The vampires of the North have developed Paths of Morality that reflect 
their own culture and perceived nature as Odin’s Chosen. These Paths should 
only be available to those vampires originally raised in a Norse culture. 
VIA FINHERJAR 
The Road of the Slain is a difficult path to follow. It stresses the Norse virtues: 
personal responsibility, individual initiative, courage and honor. Norse vampires 
who wish to cling to the trappings of a dying culture and, in turn, honor the All- 
Father follow this Path. By adhering to his codes of behavior and developing an 
iron-will, an einherJur can master the Beast. 
Vampires on the Via Einherjar are no more “good” than any other vampire. 
While they are loyal to their friends, they treat everyone else with brutality, scorn 
and intolerance. They will beat, rob and challenge any who have not proven 
themselves worthy of respect. For many, getting along with a follower of this path 
can be difficult. 
The Via Einherjar teaches the Virtues of Self-Control and Conviction. 
VIA ESIRC~ARD 
Some vampires of the High North fully believe that the gods have touched 
them in some way. This belief requires the vampires to live in a world filled with 
spirits and portents, with rules laid down in the old lays and sagas. The vampires 
are subject to the weavings of the Noms, and they feel they must maintain the old 
traditions and ways. 
A vampire who follows the Via hirgard embraces the power of the runes, 
believes in the inevitability of the fate, accepts the machinations of the gods and 
prepares himself for Ragnarok. The enemies of men and gods are his enemies. He 
will seek out the trolls, giants, werewolves and others to give them battle. At the 
end, if the vampire has performed in accordance with the virtues of the sagas, 
Valhalla will accept her in the end-times. 
The Via hirgard teaches the Virtues Self-Control and Conviction. 


vow (I TRAIT MERIT) 
You have made a great vow and lived up to it. Others see you as particularly 
trustworthy, and they believe your word over others. The nature of the vow should 
be something epic, if not always achievable -a vow to drive the Christians from 
the land, for example, or a promise to lead an expedition into the heart of Rome. 
The requirement here is that you do your best each session to fulfill that vow, 
otherwise you become an Oathbreaker. A character with a vow begins with the 
Status Trait Vow-Keeper. 
LANDLUBB~R( 2 TRAIT EMW) 
You simply do not have sea-legs. While other Norse seem born to the sea, you 
crave only solid land under your feet. If you are at sea, you will become violently 
ill despite your Cainite nature. While you won’t throw up, you find yourself unable 
to feed; you cannot use Herd or hunt while at sea. This is embarrassing, and in 
dealings with the Norse, you have the Negative Social Trait Weakling. 
OATHBRCAWR (3 TRAIT #LAW) 
Sometime in the past, you broke an important oath. Perhaps you failed to 
come when an ally summoned you, or you betrayed a close friend. Whatever you 
did (or failed to do), the Norse will not trust you. You will not attract followers, and 
you are never given positions of importance. Most other Norse will treat any 
promise or boast you make with derision, and some who hold to the old ways may 
actively persecute you. On the slight upside, however, no one expects much of you, 
and you do not have to live up to the virtues of Norse society. 
ABILITIES 
SEA MANS HI^ 
You are skilled in the arts of ship-handling and sea lore, as well as minor arts 
like swimming, rope use, 1oad.balancing and such. Without Seamanship, a vampire 
will have difficulty operating at sea or on a boat, or worse, surviving a dunk into 
the ocean. 
PFREORMANCF ( s A ~ A )  
The telling of grand stories, poems and sagas is your specialty. Someone skilled 
in Saga gains respect as a skald, and may find herself seated in a place of honor in 
the hall. This Ability is a specialization of Performance available only to a Norse 
character. 
NEW TRAITS 
AND STATUS 
Norse society has developed a few different ideas of what gives a vampire 
Status. The following Status Traits are available to the einherjur: Sugumun, V w -  
keeper, Bruue, Heroic. 


BUNYIP I N  THF 
S AVACj F WF S T 
by Peter Woodworth 
While many Garou proudly claim that Gaia’s chosen have taken the battle to 
the Wyrm wherever it may be found, very few of them truly know much of what 
lies beyond the Savage West itself, let alone outside their ancestral homelands 
across the sea. Some automatically assume the unfamiliar lands beyond Western 
” territories. Other, 
the Pure Ones and 
would have imagined. While man 
able about the land down under, 
est are less knowledge- 
well bring the bloody 
Perhaps most importantly, 
“protect” the new lands they see 
Ones in America, the sight of so 
and again, European Garou or 
alth proved too tempting. Time 
broke the treaty. The Bunyip 
Across the World Volume 2. 
tribes, it may seem hard to picture why most players would desire Bunyip characters, 
let alone why Storytellers wsuld construct stories around them. However, when 
handled capably and prepared for appropriately, Bunyip stand to offer a rich new 
dimension to Laws of the Wyld West games - 
that of living wimesses to history. 
In the modern day, the Bunyip are long gone, leaving nothing but a ghost race to 


haunt their former persecutors. However, the Savage West offers players a unique 
opportunity to see the Bunyip as not just a footnate tn tk legends of the Garou, but 
Initial Willpower: 2 
dvantage: Paths of th 
are even mor 
to the spirit world around 
ace as the Savage West. 
end of the battle for 
survival. In a generation, 
generation after that. The 
a Simple Test, lest his character begin 
emptiness of impending extinction ove 
tide of despair within himself. 
interbreeding are known to exist, and that fact is 
current state of affairs. The Bunyip spirit is intimat 
Thylacinus Form: The Thylacinus form is extremely nimble compared to 
most lupus Garou, but it is not terribly fast or well suited to distance running. 


THYLACINE? 
WHAT’STHAT? 
are ambush hunters 
outside of Tasmania, and many 
to compensate for the vanishing spec 
Lighter and leaner than an avera 
stripes that led Europeans to ni 
that thylacines are not pack adimals by 
bonded pairs. This social style extends to 
Organization: One major 
those lands their own, and they take 
animals and peoples 
were the Bunyip’s protectorate. However, the incursion of European Garou has 
made the Bunyip hard-pressed to retain their ancestral lands at all, let alone uphold 
their sacred charge as well. In the Savage West, the Bunyip tend to adopt other 
oppressed minorities as their protectorate, hiding in the shadows until their aid is 


necessary, then fading away into obscurity again when the need for them has 
passed. Many Bunyip consider the Pure Ones cousins in spirit, and they will aid 
them when they can, although not to the extent that they are contributors to 
genocide themselves. 
Outlook: The Bunyip are a breed at war, and whether they are found in their 
native land or in the wilds of the Savage West, this reality is never far from their 
minds. Once largely solitary and at peace with the spirit kingdom around them, 
they have beenforced into a martial existence. Most harbor a strong grudge against 
the Garou who have disturbed their ancestral order. However, most Bunyip are still 
much more at home with their spiritual side than their inner Rage, which is 
reflected in their personal life as well as their military tactics. Most prefer learned 
discussion and quick, effective strikes to the raucous rhetoric and full-on slaughter 
of the Garou. Finally, the Bunyip are a dying race, and all of them know it. Whether 
they choose to accept or deny this truth, to rage or retreat, the sadness of this truth 
strikes to the bone of every living member. 
Quote: “You who have driven our spirits from the world and ancestors from 
their land, hear my words. Gaia is howling and only we hear her cries. If you do not 
stop this foolish purge, we will stop it for you. I assure you, it’s in your best interesrto 
reconsider.’’ 


TAKING 
THE EINALTRAIL: USING 
BUNYIP 
IN 
THE SAVAGE 
WEST 
Adding Bunyip characters presents more of a challenge than most Storytellers 
realize when they first develop their chronicle concept. While breathing life into 
the tragedy that faces members of this dying breed should be a theme in any story 
involving the Bunyip, there are a dozen other matters which deviate from the 
standard Garou experience and require some extra consideration on the Storyteller’s 
part to really portray well. Here’s a rundown of the important plot considerations 
to bear in mind when using the elusive thylacine shapeshifters: 
s ow DID THEY 9e-r HERE? 
This material assumes that most games are taking place in the Savage West, 
with the Bunyip characters as the exotic minority. Handling games actually set in 
Australia is covered later. Very, very few Bunyip have been born in the Savage 
West, so start with the simple logistical questions. Even today, travel from 
Australia to North America requires a large expenditure of time and effort - 
in 
the days of the Savage West, the trip was much more grueling. How did the 
character make the journey? Did anyone come with him or meet him when he 
arrived? Does he still owe anyone for his passage, or is he in the country free and 
clear? 
A Moon Bridge is another possible means of transportation, perhaps, but the 
Savage West is enemy territory as far as the Bunyip are concerned, which makes 
it unlikely they’d be able to enter a caern openly without serious repercussions. The 
important thing is to make sure the passage is memorable in some way. No Bunyip 
simply arrives in the Savage West. There should always be a story involved. 
Once you’ve established the greater means of getting the character into the 
plot, work on why the Bunyip would choose to live in the area in which the 
chronicle is going to be set. Few things kill a good story faster than having a well- 
detailed setting and absolutely no reason for the characters to remain there other 
than “it’s where everyone starts out.” Bunyip in particular seldom get tied down to 
a particular location unless some truly pressing reason exists for them to stay. Such 
is doubly true if a lot of Garou from tribes normally hostile to the Bunyip are found 
in the area. However, there are a few common reasons a Bunyip could find an area 
worth investing himself in. 
Sensitive as they are, the turmoil in the Storm Umbra affects Bunyip deeply, 
and it could provide any number of story hooks. Their talent with the spirit world 
goes a long way toward making even the most reluctant of European Garou 
recognize their value in dealing with this growing threat. The Bunyip may also be 
searching for something in the area, such as a fetish that’s beenstolen or a European 
upon whom they seek vengeance for some past misdeed. Quest motives work well, 
because they not only supply a means of explaining how and why a character 
arrived in a location, but they also give that character freedom to travel if the 
chronicle decides to shift settings later on. 
Ofcourse, simple friendship is perhaps the strongest motive of all. Chances are 
good that a Bunyip character will at least befriend a local pack, if not join it 
outright, and few Bunyip would leave behind agroup of Garou who understand and 


support them, especially in the hostile lands of the Savage West. The trials, both 
within and without, that such characters would have to endure to preserve such a 
foreign bond would be monumental. The stories gained from such struggles have 
the potential to be great indeed. 
COMMON 
THEMES 
Although many of them have been touched on here and there so far, it bears 
stressing and repeating that games involving the Bunyip should always contain at 
least a measure of some essential themes. The first and most obvious of these 
themes is the archetypal “stranger in a strange land” theme. If the Bunyip simply 
seem like Garou with pouches and funny accents, then there’s something deeply 
wrong. Every story a Bunyip appears in should add some element of the exotic to 
the game: Normal Garou re-evaluate their beliefs based on the behavior of the 
strange outsiders, and the Bunyip learn more about the Europeans and their bizarre 
customs. 
Of course, the Bunyip need not behave like she’s on her way to toss a bottle 
off the edge of the world every time she runs into ‘(civilization.” A n y  Bunyip 
cunning enough to survive in the Savage West quickly learns what’s expected by 
those around her, even if she doesn’t agree with it. However, Bunyip have been 
raised within a very different paradigm than even most Pure One Garou, and this 
difference should be reflected in ways both large and small throughout the game. 
The second most prevalent theme is “hope versus desperation.” While the 
battle of the Garou is growing more challenging all the time, the Bunyip have 
already passed the edge of desperation and are fighting with all their might to hang 
on to even the tiniest shreds of hope. Bunyip stories should always contain 
elements of this precarious state. All periods of action are that much more intense, 
edged with a sense of manic determination to make a difference. Even the lightest 
social interludes can never completely escape the shadow of loss that darkens the 
heart of the Bunyip. 
Finally, particularly inspired and far-seeing Storytellers can also use the 
Bunyip to create a theme of dark prophecy, giving the Garou an ominous taste of 
the future they’re creating with their own foolish pride. If the game involvesmostly 
Bunyip characters (a truly special circumstance), the theme of bitter omens and 
the dark harvest the Garou are sowing can simply be seen from the other side for 
a change. The characters must struggle to make a difference in the time remaining 
and perhaps even pass on some kind of legacy before the void swallows them at last. 
Hey, nobody said the Bunyip always have to be good guys! There are plenty 
of Bunyip out there who are more than willing to commit an atrocity or two to 
avenge the deaths of their kin. As time passes and extinction approaches, many 
Bunyip care little for their own lives, as long as they’re paid for in the blood of their 
persecutors. Storytellers who wish to use Bunyip as villains in their game add an 
interesting antagonist to their repertoire. Unlike many typical villains in the 
Savage West, Bunyip don’t put much stock in toe-to-toe slugfests. They prefer to 
use ambushes and guerrilla raids to harass and demoralize their enemy. What’s 
more, since they work alone or in small groups, Bunyip are even more cautious than 
veteran Pure One scouts. Unless the Garou are especially vigilant or take 
extraordinary precautionary measures, most Bunyip raids are over and the damage 
U S I N 9  BUNYIP CHARACTERS A S  VILLAINS 


done before the pack even has a chance to realize what’s going on. Storytellers are 
encouraged to play up the menace and cunning of the Bunyip as much as possible, 
and never let the characters feel entirely comfortable as long as the Bunyip are 
stalking them. 
Of course, to gain the full value of the Bunyip as antagonists, the tragic angle 
of the conflict must be preserved as well. No matter what one side did to provoke 
the other, the ultimate result is Breed pitted against Breed in a world that needs all 
the defenders it can find, with one whole Breed eventually driven to extinction in 
the end. Characters who care to learn even a whit about their Bunyip foes may soon 
fiid themselves questioning their elders and perhaps even siding with the op- 
pressed shapechangers in some fashion. Even if the Bunyip are presented simply as 
savage killers who attack an innocent pack or settlement, the underlying bitter 
irony should never be allowed to escape the characters entirely. In the white-hat/ 
black-hat politics of the Savage West, it’s easy to dismiss the villains as heartless, 
remorseless monsters and thereby justify nearly any action on the part of the 
characters as “heroic.” After all, when one’s traditional racial enemy is the 
metaphysical embodiment of all the physical and spiritual decay in the universe, 
it’s pretty easy to tell who the good guys are. But when the enemies are others like 
the characters themselves, with many of the same hopes and dreams, and from a 
society whose recent history has been nothing but bloodshed and betrayal at the 
hands of the character’s own society.. .. There lies the material for some truly 
gripping, emotionally charged stories. 
GUNSLIN~IN’ DOWN UNDER 
Of course, the game can always put the shoe on the other foot and be set 
somewhere in Australia. No one said the Savage West was limited to the left side 
of the Mississippi, after all! However, there is simply too much material to reprint 
here to provide even a rough sketch of playing Down Under. Players are thereby 
again advised to consult Rage Across the World Volume 2, The Wild West 
Companion and A World of Darkness: Second Edition for a look at Australia in 
the World of Darkness, past and present. For the relevant real-world details of 
history and geography, any number of reputable scholarly texts exist for consulta- 
tion, although a comprehensive encyclopedia is often a good start. Just remember 
as you do your research that much of the power of a historical setting comes from 
the way that setting is brought to life. Players will always forgive you if some details 
are off, provided you capture the right “feel” of the time period. But if it seems to 
them as though your Aboriginal village or tiny Outback town could just as easily 
be set somewhere else, you’re in trouble. 
That said, stories run in the Australia of the Savage West tend to be 
constructed along a few basic lines. In one, the players’ characters make up a 
Bunyip pack (or packs), learning to work together and trying to thwart the 
ambitions of the Wyrm and wicked Europeans alike. In another, the players are 
European Garou exploring a new land and dealing with the strange shapeshifters 
they encounter there, perhaps with a friendly Bunyip or two in the midst to act as 
ambassadors and guides. In a third, the two cultures are incorporated more 
completely, with mixed Garou-Bunyip packs as the norm. The latter games tend 
to be built around themes like “everyone must band together to deal with some 


great big threat X” or “a tentative peace treaty Y has been signed and we’re trying 
to live it out.” However, these games are no less powerful if approached correctly. 
The important thing to remember, no matter what the formulation may be, is that 
the characters must not only have some reason to be where they are, but they also 
need a compelling reason to work together (or not to!). Otherwise, the character 
relationships will feel hollaw, and an essential dynamic of the chronicle will be 
lost. The key lies in balancing the stereotypes the characters all grew up with to the 
experiences they’ve had with the culture they’re coming in contact with, and 
realizing just what sort of person comes out of such a mix. 
In essence, if the Bunyip feel like they’re fighting the newcomers just because 
that’s what the Storyteller wants them to do, or the Europeans are just perpetrating 
the cliche “great white hunters exploring the big dark continent” as they travel, 
something is deeply amiss. However, if they players feel the rage and frustration of 
the Bunyip as they watch the Wyrm sink its claws into their land, or the first 
tentative but lasting ties of friendship forming with an understanding foreign 
Garou, the Storyteller is doing his job. If the Europeans wonder at the glory of pure 
Gaia as they step foot onto the continent, or watch in horror as their brothers 
dishonor the name Garou with their selfish pride, then the essence of the theme 
has been captured right in the beginning. 
EORMS 
HOMID 
Trait Adjustments: None. 
Change Description: All Bunyip are of Aboriginal stock, with dark eyes, hair 
and skin tone, although their hair turns light gray or even white as they age. Bunyip 
tend to be rather lean and wiry, but this descriptor doesn’t hold true for all of them. 
Trait Adjustments: While in this form, the Bunyip gains the bonus Traits: 
Tenacious, Wiry. He is also afflicted with theNegative Traits: Clumsy and Tactless. 
Change Description: Bunyip do not like their intermediate forms, and they 
seldom spend much time in them. Their shape is hunched and awkward, making 
movement more difficult. They are not as bestial as most Garou, but the weird 
nature of their appearance sets them apart just the same. 
~ L A B R O  
CRINOS 
Trait Adjustments: The Bunyip gains the bonus Traits: Athletic, Rugged x2, 
Tenacious and Wiry x2. However, the Bunyip also gains the Negative Traits: Bestial 
x2 and Clumsy. 
Change Description: Brutish and efficient, this form stands is as big as most 
Garou Crinos when fully upright, although Bunyip tend to move in a slightly 
hunched gait that makes them appear slightly smaller than they are. The Delirium 
affects most creatures who see the Bunyip in this form, although those affected are 
considered to be two steps higher on the Delirium chart due to the fact that Bunyip 
played no role in the Impergium. 
H I S ~ O  
Trait Adjustments: The Bunyip gains the bonus Traits: Tireless x2 and Wiry 
x2. The Bunyip also gains the Negative Traits: Bestial x2 and Impatient. 


Change Description: The awkward form of the thylacine is exaggerated to 
menacing size, although most Bunyip consider this form like their Glabro state and 
shun it whenever possible. What they gain in intimidation, they lose in mobility. 
Trait Adjustments: The Bunyip gains the bonus Traits: Nimble x2, Quick, 
Rugged and Tenacious x2. He also incurs the Negative Trait: Bestial. 
Change Description: The Thylacinus form is indistinguishable from a regular 
thylacine - 
not that most people in the Savage West will know what one is 
anyway. The character’s weight decreases, making him much more lean and wiry. 
THYLACINUS 
Bump GIETS 
Bunyip may choose tribal Gifts just as Garou do, but finding teachers is 
becoming more and more difficult as their numbers dwindle. Learning high-level 
Bunyip Gifts in the Savage West would require a journey of epic proportions. 
Storytellers should take care to remind prospective Bunyip players that they will 
likely have a tough time locating spirits or elders able to teach them any but the 
most basic Gifts, and to plan their character’s development accordingly. 
BASIC 
C~IETS 
Leap of the Kangaroo - 
When his player expends a Physical Trait, the 
Bunyip may double his jumping distances for the remainder of the scene/hour, 
whichever lasts longer. The Garou later adopt this Gift and its name, perhaps out 
of respect for the Bunyip. 
Dreamwalk - 
Bunyip have a deep bond with the Umbra, unfathomable 
even to the most learned Uktena sages and Stargazer mystics, and this Gift is a 
recognition of that fact. As long as the moon is visible in the sky, the Bunyip may 
reduce the level of the Gauntlet by two. This effect applies only to the Bunyip 
himself, it does not count as an action on the Bunyip’s part, and it extends for a 
radius of no more than three steps. Also, Bunyip with this Gift never have a need 
for a reflective surface to cross into the Umbra, visible moon or otherwise. They 
need only concentrate on the passage, although stepping sideways still takes the 
normal amount of time. 
Possum’s Feet - 
See the Gift: Catfeet, in Laws of the Wild, p. 97. 
MeasuredStep-SeetheGift:SlrrfaceAttmement,inLawsoftheWild,p. 121. 
Lonesome Voice of the Bunyip- As the last hope of their race, the Bunyip 
are aware that they are losing the battle for their homeland and their very identity. 
This Gift stems from the deep loss that Bunyip himself feels when looking on the 
brave struggles of his oumumbered children. Characters who learn this Gift can 
channel some of the terrible sadness of their Totem into a booming, haunting cry, 
sending those around them fleeing from a combination of loneliness and terror. 
The player must announce the use of this Gift (actual wailing is discouraged, unless 
you happen to be proficient at expressing the bleak nihilism of encroaching 
extinction in a few syllables) and spend a Gnosis Trait. The players of all non- 
Bunyip characters in the area must then defeat the character in a Simple Test 
(Social Traits compared on a tie) or lose a Willpower Trait and retreat for the 
remainder of the scene. 
INTERMEDIATE 
C~IPTS 


Landspeak -Tied as deeply as they are to their land of origin, the Bunyip 
are able to commune with the spirits easily to learn any number of things the Earth 
has seen, simply by placing their ear against a natural feature and listening. Treat 
this Gift the same as the Gift: Attumment in Laws of the Wild, p. 109, except that 
the Bunyip has an effective range of dozens of miles, and he may learn about such 
general patterns as coming weather, distant settlements and the like. The down 
side of this Gift is that, linked as it is to the Bunyip’s ancestral lands, this Gift will 
not function in most foreign locales (such as the Savage West), although the 
Storyteller may make an exception in certain special circumstances. 
Vice-Jaw - 
See the Lupus Gift: Gnaw, in Laws of the Wild, p. 97. 
Guardians of the Dreamtime - 
Bunyip with this bond to the spirit world 
need never worry about any restrictions on their ability to step sideways. To them, 
both worlds are as one, and crossing between the two is as easy as drawing breath. 
They cannot fight in and out of the Umbra simultaneously (that is the province 
of the Gift: Ghost Dance, in Laws of the Wyld West, p. 285), but day or night, the 
Gauntlet is always considered two lower for the Bunyip. They may even extend this 
advantage to others in a 10-foot radius with a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty 
seven). If successful, they may reduce the Gauntlet by one for every Mental Trait 
they spend. This reduction lasts until the end of the session/ night, whichever 
comes first. 
Bloody-Mindedness -Named after an Australian expression denoting an 
unswerving commitment to reaching a particular goal, this fearsome Gift allows a 
Bunyip to pursue the target of his dedication with inhuman efficiency. When the 
player spends two Willpower Traits and declares his chosen objective (to a 
Narrator), the Bunyip does not need to eat or sleep until his quest is completed. He 
is also one Trait up on all Challenges related to his task, and he is completely 
immune to all supernatural mind- or emotion-control attempts that try to sway him 
from his objective. Furthermore, if used in combat, the Bunyip may not attempt to 
dodge attacks from sources other than his chosen target (although he may still soak 
them normally), but he is considered to have two extra Healthy health levels when 
soaking such attacks. He also gains an additional attack against his sworn foe at the 
end of every turn. Note that the objective must be specific and attainable: “Destroy 
all European Garou” is not a permissible oath, but “Get revenge on the Silver Fang 
who burned my tribe’s village” would be. If in doubt, consult a Narrator about 
which oaths are permissible. Only one sacred vow may be sworn at a time. 
Billabong Bridge - 
Ancient uses of this Gift are what allowed the Bunyip 
to patrol their vast protectorate efficiently, and its use is still a means of rapid 
transportation in an era when many of the Moon Bridges are being claimed by the 
European Garou. Bunyip using this Gift may enter one body of water and emerge 
at another such body any distance away, simply by spending two Gnosis Traits and 
envisioning their destination (therefore both locations must be fairly well-known 
to the Bunyip before this Gift will function). The only other restriction is that salt 
water cannot be involved at either end of the trip, or the Gift will not activate. 
Only the Gift user may make the journey. No other “passengers” may hitch a ride 
this way. 
ADVANCED 
51ms 


NEWTOTEMS 
08 RESPECT 
Mu-ru-bul Tu-ru-dun, the Bunyip 
Cost: 6 
A mysterious totem for an enigmatic race, Bunyip appears as a furred, 
flippered, and scaled beast with a long beard or mane and burning eyes. Bunyip has 
never been sighted outside of a body of water, and he favors deep streams and 
billabongs. His deep bellow terrifies even the bravest ofwarriors, and his words bear 
the eternal wisdom of the rivers. 
Bunyip gives his children access to the Gifts: Measured Steb and Lonesome 
Voice ofthe Bunyip once per session. If the characters are non-Bunyip, the Breed will 
be favorably disposed to them, but they will also expect them to take their side in 
any disputes with the Europeans, which can put the characters in a difficult 
position very quickly. 
Ban: Bunyip asks that his children honor him by drowning at least one enemy 
in fresh water every year. Due to his anger at their past ignorance and current blood 
thirst, Bunyip will not accept packs that contain European Garou. Only Silent 
Striders, Stargazers and Pure Ones have a chance of receiving his patronage, and 
even they must perform a great service for him before he will consider adopting 
them. Bunyip may not be taken by any packs operating outside of Australia due to 
his weakening condition. 
Ngalyod the Rainbow Serpent 
cost: 7 
The chief totem of the Bunyip, although almost entirely unheard of by the 
Europeans, Ngalyod appears as a tremendous rainbow-colored serpent. No one has 
ever been tall or high enough to see both Ngalyod’s head and his tail at once. Once 
a joyous spirit, Ngalyod has grown moody and withdrawn of late, grieving for her 
vanishing children and searching for answers to the problems facing them. 
Ngalyod gives each of her children a permanent Trait of Honor Renown, as 
well as one permanent Gnosis Trait. Bunyip will be extremely impressed by any 
Garou who receive Ngalyod’s blessing, but they will expect them to act the part as 
well. Ngalyod’s Children will never be attacked by Dreamtime spirits, although 
these spirits can and will defend themselves if attacked. 
Ban: Children of the Rainbow Serpent must become parents as soon as 
possible, since the Rainbow Serpent is a spirit of birth and creation. More forgiving 
than her cousin Mu-ru-bul Tu-ru-dun, Ngalyod will accept Garou of all tribes, 
although Europeans will still be required to perform some extra service and 
demonstrate exceptional dedication to defending Australia and its people before 
receiving her blessing. Ngalyod’s power is weakening, however, and it cannot be 
taken outside of Australia, just like her cousin. 


WRAITH: THF GRFAT WAR 
J 
by Bruce Baugh 
This article is part one of a two-part feature. In part one, you’ll find: 
An owerwiew of the @eat War era, including the Insurrection. 
The Legions and Guilds during the Fourth Great Maelstrom, along with a 
general sense of existence during the @eat War. 
Character creation, includingnew Archetypes, Abilities, Thorns and the like 
fur the era, along with period versions of some Arcanoi. 
Part two will include: 
Ruks fur Maelstrom behawiur and survival. 
Guidelines on using Charon in @eat War games. 
Arcanoi of other Dark Kingdoms, fur use by wraitJLs strunded in Stygian 
Mortwights as characters, including revised versions ofsome Dark Arcanoi. 
Tempering Arcanoi - 
ways of combining arts to produce new effects. 
Some prominent places and peopk of the era. 
temtoy by the stonn. 
JUST MORE 
OE THE SAME? 
In some ways the Great War wasn’t that long ago, certainly not as far back as 
(say) the Middle Ages. Nor is everything different about the wraithly society of the 
era. However, The Great War isn’t just an Oblivion game in different hats. 
In this period, Charon rules his empire, or at least he’s out there. On the other 
hand, the empire’s engulfed by civil war, with Legion pitted against Legion. All 
around the combatants, and everyone else, a Great Maelstrom blows. Wraiths who 
died in other lands can’t get home.. . and wraiths who would normally go to other 
Dark Kingdoms remain in Stygian territory for the duration. 
In a Great War chronicle, you can play wraiths with African and Indian 
Arcanoi, take sides in the greatest conflict within the empire since the Three 
Abominations centuries ago, roleplay the stresses within every Necropolis while 
the storm winds blow and meet the man who built the empire. Some of the usual 
powers work differently. You’ll find new Natures, new Shadow Archetypes, new 
Thorns and more here. 
You can certainly use a lot of this information in a modem-day Oblivion game, 
particularly if you incorporate Ends of Empire and unleash the Sixth Great 
Maelstrom. But the Great War era has a tone all its own, too. 
THE 
C~RFAT WAR 
Three hundred years ago, the Third Great Maelstrom ripped through the 
Underworld. The Labyrinth shuddered and spat out centuries’ accumulation of 
angry Spectres while the vast seas below the Shadowlands churned into storms that 
lasted for years. All of Stygia’s armies and all the wraiths who reject Stygian 
authority, fighting together in the crisis, took more than adecade to beat down the 
storm and the spirits moving inside it. The battle left the empire changed forever. 


Storm debris clogged the River of Death, making it impassable. Charon founded 
the first Necropolis (in London) to better protect and manage the ever-growing 
volume of souls under his command. The Sea of Shadows, which returned to its 
dark calm after the First and Second Great Maelstroms, never became still again. 
Even today, it’s known as the Tempest. 
This time, things are worse. 
The great powers of Europe go to war in 1914. Among the young men who 
march off to what they thought would be glorious victory, and among the men and 
women of every age who cheer them on, are many who later claim they’d never 
favored the martial cause. They lie to themselves and others. In the decades before 
1914, intellectuals, mid-level managers and peasants alike tell each other how war 
would invigorate their national spirit and bring glory to the warriors. They don’t 
pay attention to mounting evidence - 
from the American Civil War, from the 
Crimean War, from the Boer War - 
that modem technology makes all that 
irrelevant. So the young men march off to die by the millions. 
The war settles almost nothing in a military or diplomatic sense, except that treaty 
terms guarantee another war will follow in the next generation. The young men come 
home disillusioned, searching for enemies to blame. Their chosen targets include 
capitalism, liberal democracy, communism, Jewry and anyone else who might express 
an opinion about what went wrong. In the aftermath of the war, plague follows, with 
lethal influenza striking some countries even harder than the war. Revolutions rage all 
across Eastern Europe, while the regimes ofWestem Europe grope for some idea of what 
to do next. After a nervously exuberant decade, global depression sets in. 
It is not the best of times for the living. The dead soon envy them. 
The FourthGreat Maelstrom breaks out on July 1,1916. In the Skinlands, the 
Battle of the Somme includes the highest casualty rates yet. The press of violent 
death and surrounding agony echoes across the Shroud, pouring dark passions into 
every layer of the afterlife. In the depths of the Labyrinth, spiritual tides crest and 
begin to ebb. The turning tide forces Spectres out of the Labyrinth and into the 
upper reaches of the Underworld. As the weight of pain inflames the Tempest, 
triggering storm clouds that rise into the Shadowlands, torrents of Spectres shoot 
upward in search of some new home until the Labyrinthine tides allow them to 
return. On July lst, the Shadowlands of eastern France crack open to let the 
seething mass of evil memories and Shadow-eaten souls pour forth. Similar 
eruptions begin on battlefields on every front during the next few hours. Within 
days, the leading edge of the storm sweeps around the globe. 
The Great Maelstrom rages for more than a decade. As the ’20s wear on, it 
gradually tapers off, and something like peace returns. 
The storm isn’t the only problem wraiths face. Charon isolates himself in the 
Onyx Tower and does not answer calls to lead his people. In 1918, the Smiling Lord 
declares himself the new emperor of the dead: The crisis calls for leadership, and thanks 
to war deaths, he controls more wraiths than any of his rival Deathlords. His followers 
refer to themselves as Imperialists; their enemies call them Insurrectionists. The 
Skeletalbrd, whoseesCharonastheFirst Horsemanofthe Apocalypse, leadstheloyal 
resistance. Influenza and other diseases swell the rank of the Skeletal Legion. 


THE POWERS 
THAT 
BE 
For a full decade, the Stygian Empire functions erratically, without consis- 
tency. Between the corporeal challenge of the storm and the social challenge of the 
Insurrection, most Necropoli must rely on their own resources. Independent 
governments spring up as “free cities,” city-states, regional alliances and the like. 
Some cities cater to the Imperialist or Loyalist factions in exchange for the freedom 
to run their own affairs. In St. Petersburg, for instance, glib-sounding Anacreons 
keep inspectors appeased and breed monsters behind the scenes. 
The Legions are the basic building blocks ofwraithly society. They Reap souls and 
instruct the new Restless Dead in the fundamentals of their condition. Most wraiths 
aren’t soldiers, but the Legions provide a sense of identity for many wraiths nonetheless. 
The vast majority of wraiths follow the lead set by the higher-ups in their respective 
Legions, not so much out ofdeep conviction as because they take it for granted and have 
no real alternatives. Common attitudes include “my bosses seem to know what they’re 
doing, and I’m not impressed by the other guys” and “I owe these people for helping me 
survive, so I’ll back them even if I don’t really understand what’s going on.” 
THE 
LE~IONS 
The Skeletal Legion: Victims of Pestilence 
The Skeletal Legion leads the Loyalist faction. The Skeletal Lord is utterly insane. 
He believes himself to be one of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse, and he fights to 
protect the realm of Charon, whom he regards as Death incarnate. The Skeletal Lord’s 
madness doesn’t prevent him from running one of the most efficient Legions. Disease 
strikes all ages and social classes, and the Skeletal Lord staffs his offices with the finest 
administrators he can find. Skeletal Legionnaires tend to know a lot more about what 
assets they have at any given time than their counterparts in other Legions. In 1918, 
when the Smiling Lord revolts, the Skeletal Legion badly lags behind the Gnm in 
manpower. However, the Spanish Flu and various other post-war diseases close the gap. 
It takes most of a decade for the Skeletal Legion to fully assimilate and train its new 
recruits, so the Skeletal Legion fights an uphill battle throughout the ’2Os, holding its 
gains but expanding much more slowly than its commanders would like. 
The Iron Legion: Victims of Old Age 
Like pestilence, old age strikes people at every level of society. The Iron 
Legion’s recruits all enter the Shadowlands with the benefits (and disadvantages) 
of a full life’s experience. Iron Legion administrators get surprised by less, since they 
really have seen it before. The Legion’s diplomats and spies know tricks that even 
centuries in the Shadowlands can’t match. Mortals live more intensely than 
wraiths do, and they pack a lot of insight into a century. Unfortunately, Iron 
Legionnaires often rely too much on mortal insights and not enough on wraithly 
ones: When the Insurrection begins, many Iron Legion officers and spies fall to 
Grim Legion jailers. The Legion spends the rest of the decade fighting to survive 
as well as rebuild. Fortunately, while wars and disease both come and go, old age 
remains, and the Iron Legion grows again just as it has after past tragedies. Very few 
Iron Legionnaires defy their superiors to join the Insurrection. They include many 
of the wartime leaders that angry young Grim Legionnaires would love to punish. 
The Grim Legion: Victims of Violence 
The population of the Grim Legion rises and falls in big steps. Wars, genocides 
and the like kill many people in short order. In more peaceful times, only murders 


send more people to join the Grim ranks. Senior Grim leaders must assimilate a 
great many wraiths quickly and then try to conserve their forces until the next era 
of suffering, all the while keeping their charges from the over-zealous pursuit of 
vengeance. At the moment of Insurrection, the Grim Legion vastly outnumbers 
any of its rivals; the Smiling Lord plans a rapid enough victory not to worry about 
attrition. Just like the plans of European generals before 1914, it doesn’t quite work 
that way. With the growing ranks of Skeletal soldiers and the Emerald Legion’s 
defection, in the end sheer numbers determine the Smiling Lord’s failure. 
The Emerald Legion: Victims of Happenstance 
Sometimes life deals cruel and capricious blows. Entering the Shadowlands 
unexpectedly, without any of the preparation that war or pestilence or old age might 
provide, the members of the Emerald Legion traditionally compensate with a rigorous 
conservatism. The Emerald Lord usually plays within the system for all the advantage 
he can gather. He acted out of character when backing the Smiling Lord, and suffered 
for it when he returned to form and defected to the Loyalist cause halfway through the 
Insurrection. The other Deathlords willingly enough put his forces to use, but they 
never trusted him, and they systematically denied him his traditional share of wraiths 
with contestable causes of death. The irregular nature of happenstance means that the 
Legion always suffers from deficiencies in manpower and equipment - 
it’s hard to do 
strategic planning when chance defines your existence. 
The Penitent Legion: Victims of Madness 
The Penitent Legion, like the Grim, grows and contracts unpredictably. The 
Laughing Lady ran her Legion ruthlessly, Reaping every soul she could claim and 
sending troublemakers to the forges, all with a minimum of argument tolerated. 
The War to End All Wars swells the Legion’s ranks, with soldier-suicides (many 
of whom didn’t consciously realize they were suicidal), shell-shock victims and the 
like. Despite relatively close relations, the Smiling Lord decided he couldn’t trust 
the Laughing Lady and deposed her at the start of the Insurrection, setting up a new 
one loyal to him. For the duration, rival Laughing Ladies compete for control of the 
Legion’s resources; neither one matters to the battle except as a propaganda figure. 
At Insurrection’s end, the puppet goes to the forges and the original Laughing Lady 
returns to power, dedicating herself to a purge that leaves the Legion so depopu- 
lated as to be barely functional for decades to come. 
The Legion of Fate: T h e  Chosen 
The ranks of the Legion of Fate are somehow always just large enough. Nothing 
unites the Fated except the mark of fate itself: They would otherwise spread all 
through the other Legions because they can die any way people do. The Ladies of Fate 
oversee the most diversified gathering of ghosts and somehow manage to maintain 
a n  effective organization to get the right people to the spots Fate decrees appropriate 
at the right time. Just as the Fated take no formal part in Necropolis politics, so they 
take no part in the Insurrection. They concentrate on fighting the storm and Spectres 
so that whoever emerges on top still has an empire to rule. 
The Silent Legion: Victims of Despair 
Despair stalks mortal society during and after the war. Soldiers and civilians 
lose hope and surrender to death. The Silent Legion makes an unusually coordi- 
nated effort to find and recruit its souls, since so many would otherwise keep falling 
into Oblivion. The Quiet Lord cares more about the well-being of his charges than 
most of the other Deathlords. Silent Legionnaires who survive their first weeks in 


the Underworld go on to last longer, on average, than the members of any other 
Legion, but the early failure rate is hellishly high. The Quiet Lord recently 
instituted the Steel Martyrs order for wraiths willing to give themselves to the 
forges rather than to Oblivion, which at least addresses resource shortages and does 
less harm to Stygia’s ability to survive. Like the Legion of Fate, the Silent Legion 
plays little part in the Insurrection. Silent Legionnaires often serve as acting 
Anacreons, trusted by both sides, as well as fighting the storm. 
The Legion of Paupers: Victims of Mystery 
The only Legion smaller than the Paupers is the Legion of Fate, yet the Beggar 
Lord compensates for his thin ranks with overwhelming ambition. He’s one of the 
most thorough deal-makers and conspirators in the Dark Kingdom of Iron. Popular 
opinion portrays the Paupers as a Legion of the clueless. Its members compensate 
much as their Lord does, through diligent effort to win power and influence. Little 
unites them except the shared isolation of an unknown or incomprehensible death. 
This link could be a liability, but the Beggar Lord tries to capitalize on the diversity 
in his ranks. Outsiders who stereotype the Legion too far end up embarrassed (or 
worse) when they find themselves outmaneuvered in complex social ploys. During 
the Insurrection, the Legion of Paupers remains neutral, collecting payments from 
both sides to stay out of the conflict and building its own power base all the while. 
When the usual foundations of Stygian society prove unreliable, other groups 
move in to prop up the society and keep it running. In some Necropoli, the Guilds 
remain largely suppressed and out of sight, but in many parts of the empire they 
provide more practical governance than the Hierarchy. 
Stygians often divide the Guilds into four categories. The Great Guilds matter as 
much to the survival ofthe empire as any Legion, providing essential services. No leader 
or would-be leader with a clue risks tampering with the Artificers, Masquers, Pardoners 
or Usurers. A faction cut off by one or more of the Great Guilds must fall, and sooner 
rather than later. The Working Guilds provide useful services and operate almost in 
public behind a variety of flimsy guises that satisfy the letter of the law. A few Working 
Guildwraiths become prominent players in the games of Stygian politics. Most try, l i e  
the wraiths around them, mostly to stay out of the way. The Chanteurs, Harbingers, 
Oracles and Sandmen all confront the same mix of opportunity and risk facing all 
wraiths during the Great War. The Criminal Guilds provide services that warrant 
instant slavery and forging ... services often so useful that prominent Criminal 
Guildwraiths enjoy signhcant social status, and nobody rudely broaches the question 
of just how those wraiths acquired their power and influence. The war and storm matter 
less to the Criminal Guilds, forming opportunity and backdrop rather than all- 
consuming goals for the Haunters, Monitors, Proctors, Puppeteers and Spooks. Fmlly, 
the Forbidden Guilds operate altogether outside the sanction of Stygian society, and the 
Insurrection doesn’t change much for the Alchemists, Mnemoi or Solicitors. 
The Great Guilds 
Loyalists and Imperialists alike court the Great Guilds, and try to avoid 
drawing the Guilds’ anger. 
An internal civil war rages throughout the Great War within the Artificers. 
Nhudri’s detachment and the Guild’s public neutrality mask a vicious struggle to 
tie the Guild’s fortunes to the faction deemed most likely to win the war. Loyalist 


forces prevail within the Guild just as the Smiling Lord surrenders, and a quiet but 
thorough purge follows as peace returns. 
The Masquers engage in a similar (and similarly concealed) dispute, though 
favoring assassination rather than outright fights. The Masquers’ rigorous adher- 
ence to a code of ethics in business allows them to deal with both sides, and keeps 
either side from feeling at a disadvantage because of Guild discrimination. 
The Usurers work together and grow wealthy, charging exorbitant rates for 
their services, running just shy of angering Loyalists or Imperialists enough to 
provoke reprisals. After the Rebellion, charges of profiteering force the Guild back 
The Working Guilds 
The Working Guilds play no major part as Guilds in the war, although some 
prominent individuals try to influence the course of events. 
The Chanteurs flourish during the storm as they did during past Great 
Maelstroms - 
desperate wraiths seek inspiration and distraction. Wraiths without 
Keening refer with a mixture of gratitude and contempt to “Johnny Songbirds,” 
wraiths who never aspired to public performance before the crisis and now move 
to the stage, doing what they can to provide relief. Some Chanteurs also act as 
diplomats and mediators. 
The Harbingers could become a Great Guild if their leaders wanted to try. 
Throughout the storm, Argos proves essential to keeping scattered Necropoli in 
touch with each other. Harbingers act as scouts, guides and messengers for all 
elements of Stygian society. 
The Oracles continue to ply their trade as usual, far more concerned about the 
storm than the war. Factional fighting takes place in the Guild’s upper reaches, 
with Delphic support for the Skeleton Legion pitted against Gambler sympathy for 
the Grim Legion. None of it amounts to very much, in the end, apart from 
opportunities for promotion as internal purges create vacancies. 
The Sandmen make dramatic social progress during the Great War, rehabili- 
tating themselves with a new image as civic supporters relieving the stresses of 
Maelstrom existence. Well-publicized heroic masters and mistresses of Phantasm 
do battle with the Shadow-eaten to protect mortal dreams, and earn the gratitude 
of the wraiths Fettered to living souls. 
The Criminal Guilds 
The Criminal Guilds all profit from the combination of desperation and 
isolation. Wraiths who badly need a service can and do pay handsomely for it, and 
wraiths who want services the Hierarchy frowns on get more opportunities to seek 
a supplier when the chain of command rusts and breaks apart. 
The Haunters unite to a degree that surprises them all, fighting the Shadow- 
eaten for the soul of the Underworld. In the century before the Fourth Great 
Maelstrom, the Monitors ruled the criminal underground of most Necropoli. 
Isolation leaves them shattered and ineffective against the far more ruthless 
Spooks, and the Monitors scatter. 
The Proctors support the Loyalist cause, gambling that no single Legion can 
prevail against the rest, and many expert Embody users earn pardons for their 
service in identifying and destroying Insurrectionist Fetters. 


The Puppeteers, the most persecuted Guild not actually forbidden like the 
Solicitors and Mnemoi, exploit their long-standing ties to the Grim Legion to earn 
a much more free hand. Risen proliferate; inadequately trained souls quickly fall 
to their Shadows as careless manipulators of the living. The Puppeteers generally 
aim to ride out the storm years in comfort, across the Shroud. When the 
Insurrection fails, charges of Puppetry send a sizable fraction of the Guild’s 
members to the forges. 
The Spooks prosper tremendously. Their ttaditional rivals weakened or 
distracted and their clients desperate in the face of war and storm, Guildwraiths 
reap huge profits. For many small Necropoli, the Spooks become a de facto 
government, earning good will that sustains them through post-Great War 
tribulations. Spooks don’t just run rackets, either; Outrage-powered mercenary 
units fight on all sides of the various conflicts. 
The Forbidden Guilds 
The Forbidden Guilds also thrive. The powers that be have more important 
things to do than stamp out suspected rogues when Spectres howl at every gate and 
the guards fight each other. So the banned Guilds work their way back into the 
light quietly, making preparations so that when suppression returns (as it always 
does) the hunted Guildwraiths have more options for concealment. 
The Alchemists set up a variety of front groups to protect the Guild and then 
get rich. Wraiths everywhere want the strongest Fetters they can get (and their 
enemies to have the weakest). Every Alchemist willing to admit to knowing Flux 
gets all the work she wants, and then some. The Guilds that traditionally oppose 
the Alchemists - 
the Artificers, Monitors and Spooks - 
deal with their own 
challenges. That is, until the Insurrection ends and persecution resumes. 
Nobody sees the Mnemoi. Nobody thinks about them. They go about their 
own business. Their time doesn’t come for another seventy years. See Ends of 
Empire for what happens when they emerge at last. 
The Solicitors operate in secret, as always. They recruit unwitting pawns for 
their internal political disputes and to spread influence throughout the Hierarchy. 
The Great Maelstrom strands wraiths who’d normally go to the Dark King- 
dom of Ivory or to Swar. In life they were soldiers in the armies of colonial powers. 
Now they’re stuck, isolated for the duration of the storm. Part two of this article will 
present information on creating and playing characters from outside Stygia. In 
addition, some soldiers of the Jade Empire, taken prisoner in conflicts on Stygia’s 
eastern frontier, struggle for survival as the Insurrection distracts their captors. 
0 UTS I D F RS 
AETERLIEF 
DURINC~ 
WARTIME 
The Great Maelstrom and the Insurrection combine to shatter the empire, at 
least for a while. What conditions prevail in the Necropolis characters inhabit 
depends on who’s in charge. 
LOYALIST 
C~OVFRNMFNT 
In many Necropoli, the traditional order prevails. Anacreons for the Skeletal, 
Iron, Penitent, Silent and Pauper Legions operate as agents of the Hierarchy. The 
unpredictable loss of communications means that they exercise more authority on 
the spot than usual, but their fundamental position doesn’t change. Reaper squads 


circulate regularly, in an effort to keep new wraiths away from not only random 
Spectral predators, but also from dissidents and (above all) the Grim Legion. 
Wraiths who’d normally join the Grim Legion end up assigned to one of the others, 
all of which have special “substitute Grim” sections. 
Most Loyalist Necropolioperate under strictmilitaryrule. Everyonenot explicitly 
and enthusiastically supportive of the regime faces investigation and punishment. 
Luxuries and entertainment come only as the authorities deem appropriate. 
IMPERIAL 
C~OVERNMENT 
The Grim Legion rules alone (particularly after the Emerald Lord defects), or 
- 
with incidental support from lackeys in the various other Legions. Otherwise, cities 
under the Smiling Lord’s jurisdiction differ little from their Loyalist counterparts. 
Nobody can keep exhaustive records in the midst of the storm’s chaos. 
Powerful wraiths can and do band together, overthrow resisting Anacreons and 
Centurions and institute a new government of their own. In cities with strong 
religious traditions, Heretic movements flourish, basing their regimes on devotion 
to holy relics or sacred teachings. Where mortal revolution stirs the Shroud, 
politically motivated Renegades often come to the foreground. Most such move- 
ments preserve the division of wraiths by deathmark while abolishing the standard 
military hierarchy. A chronicle in an independent city can use, literally, just about 
any organizational scheme: recreation of ancient Athens or Sparta, 19th century 
Utopian schemes, arcane occult symbolism as the basis of the bureaucracy, efforts 
to recreate the environments of pulp fiction (very popular in the 1920s) and so on. 
THE CITY AND THE C~HOSTS 
INDEPENDENT 
C~OVERNMENT 
As part two of this article will make clear, the storm isdangerour. Travel stnks 
to a fraction of its normal volume. The Necropolis where play begins must be, by 
necessity, where the vast majority of play takes place. Consider your options 
carefully. Loyalist Necropoli most resemble the Shadowlands in other times. The 
Imperial approach offers a fresh spin on similar themes. Independent government 
covers everything else. Be sure to consider how much organization you want, and 
choose enough to satisfy players and not enough to annoy them. 
C HARACTF R C RFATI o N 
The Great War era emphasizes some aspects of wraithly society more than 
others, and some constant factors like Shadow and Arcanoi manifest in ways 
appropriate to the period. 
This article covers creating characters in the mainstream of Stygian society 
after the War to End All Wars. They belong to one or another of the Legions - 
although they may not serve actively in any sense - 
and they study the publicly 
available Arcanoi. Wraith: Great War includes options not covered here, 
including the forbidden Arcanoi and Mortwights as player-characters. Look for 
those in an upcoming article. 
STEP ONE: CHARACTER 
CONCEPT 
Who were you in life, and how did you die? The Guilds play only minor roles 
in the Great War. Wraiths gather because of shared causes of death; the Legions 


provide the building blocks of Stygian society. The war in the empire leads all 
Legions to scour the Shadowlands for new souls. When you die, or shortly 
thereafter, someone comes to claim you, offering you shelter from the storm and 
instruction in your new condition. Guild training, if it happens at all, only comes 
later, and Legion membership defines your place in the Underworld. 
DEATH 
AND THE L E ~ I O N S  
See the descriptions of the Legions, and think about how your character died. 
Unlike the late 20th century, the Great War era includes many causes of mass 
death - 
your character probably enters the Shadowlands with many peers. War 
and revolution create wraiths by the dozens (or hundreds, or even thousands) in 
every battle. When diseases sweep through a country, they swell the wraithly 
population of a Necropolis as well. It’s easy for Great War wraiths to begin with a 
shared death, and that fact is a handy hook for a chronicle. 
Even if characters go on to join independent movements, Loyalist or Impe- 
rialist Reapers almost certainly brought them out of the Caul and into wraithly 
society. Independent Necropoli seldom have the organization to mount regular 
Reaping patrols. So characters have the opportunity to get some information 
(albeit biased) right at the outset. Think about who your character was in life. You 
have to do so anyway to develop Passions and Fetters, but it also matters for how 
your character deals with the new realities of the Underworld. Soldiers who hate 
the war and wish to see all empires fall feel very differently about the Insurrection 
than loyal citizens who honestly sought to promote their nation’s victory, for 
instance. It’s not just biographical facts that matter, but attitude. 
The decade after the War to End All Wars is one of revolutionary change. 
Einstein’s discoveries in physics, along with quantum mechanics, open up a whole 
new way of looking at the natural world. The Russian Revolution proves that no 
empire can withstand change forever. The war itself shows the moral bankruptcy 
of old imperial ideas, and in exhausting Europe, lays the groundwork for America 
to emerge as the new world power. Freud’s ideas drastically alter how people think 
of their own souls. Many people stay true to older principles, of course, but in the 
face of multiple revolutions, remaining traditional is itself a conscious choice, too. 
It’s an era of self-examination as well as critique of the world at large. 
I 
,I 
I 
L 
~ I 
ARCHETYPES 
1 
In addition to the Natures and Demeanors common to the late 20th century, 
provided in Oblivion, the psychological and spiritual conditions of the Great War 
era give rise to other common archetypes. 
AuCourant.Youmustbecurrent. Ifit’sold,you’renot interested.Youdon’t 
risk yourself in particularly dangerous experimentation.. . but you do watch the 
risk-takers carefully and help blaze fashions in their wake. 
commando. You’re a warrior - 
not a faceless grunt among many, but one 
prepared to gather up arms and loyal comrades to take the battle directly to the enemy. 
You trust hierarchies only insofar as they support your ability to fight as you feel called to. 
Curmudgeon. Life was bad. Death is worse. There’s a cloud for every silver 
lining. You expect the worst and get it. You often try to warn others of the trouble 
they don’t see coming, but nobody ever pays proper attention to you. 
‘1 
,I 


Idealist. You have a cause, maybe the vision that drove you in life, maybe 
one that’s captured you since then. You dream of the world as it might be, and you 
work to make it so. You try to inspire others to work with you. 
Manipulator. In a land where nothing’s solid but souls, you use the people 
around you as your tools. You’re fascinated by what makes people tick, not for 
abstract curiosity but to make them tick the way you want. You exist for the 
satisfaction of being at the center of a society doing your bidding. 
Patrician. You were born to rule, and death doesn’t change that. You bring 
grace and wisdom to wraithly society. Your role is to encourage proper subordination 
among those who must defer and to lead them intelligently in this hour of need. 
Pragmatist. Reality is what you can get away with. Sure, grand dreams are 
well and good, but you need to get things done. You proceed step by step, and you’ll 
do what seems necessary to keep yourself safe and secure. Ideals are for times the 
sky doesn’t spit blood. 
Reformer. Injustice fills the Underworld, and it must change. You know 
that revolution gets you nowhere. You work patiently, making incremental 
changes, building consensus to make this place a better, more moral realm. It may 
take forever, but then you’ve got forever, and virtue can outlast vice. 
Rumonnager.Someonealwayscarriesthenewsothersdon’twant~o~.That’s 
you. You listen carefilly and take what you hear to the listeners who most need to hear it. 
You’re the one people turn to for dormation, and you make them pay the right price. 
STEP Two: ATTRIBUTES 
STEP THREE: 
ADVANTAC~ES 
Assign Attributes as in Oblivion. 
See “The Arcanoi” for Great War-era Arcanoi. 
PASSIONS 
AND EETTERS 
Assign these as in Oblivion. Keep in mind that your wraith may begin far away 
from her Fetters, and that she can’t cross the oceans to them after a Harrowing 
while the Maelstrom winds blow. Don’t create a character with no Fetters on the 
side of the Atlantic where play begins, or at least be prepared to make a new 
character after the first Harrowing if you do. 
At least one Passion should relate to the character’s cause ofdeath. It provides 
hooks, whether the character seeks vengeance, redress or just a chance to finish 
whatever it is death cut short. In most chronicles, characters will naturally develop 
interests in and attachments to wraithly society; at the outset, make sure that your 
character also has reasons to care about the mortal world. 
STEP EOUR: SHADOW 
CREATION 
Follow the procedure shown in Oblivion. Use the historical Shadow Arche- 
types and Thornsgiven here in addition to the ones inoblivion. Note that the cost 
of some Thorns changes because of the conditions of the Great Maelstrom. 
SHADOW 
ARCHETYPES 
The Anarchist. Power corrupts. Everything wrong with the world startsbecause 
someone has too much power over others. The Anarchist seeks to topple every 
structure into Oblivion. Whatever it is that brings order brings power, and it must go. 


The Deserter. All institutions fail. You’ve got to look out for yourself, 
because nobody else does, and you’ve got to know when to flee the scene before it 
all falls apart. The Deserter looks for reasons to justify betraying friends and 
associates and then for the best way to leave them in the lurch. 
The Id. Only passions untrammeled by reason or an awareness of the future 
matter. The Id seeks to indulge whatever seems likely to bring satisfaction to the 
wraith right now, and never mind what may come next. 
The Maggot. Everything valuable the world ever held is dead, and all that 
remains is picking through its corpse. The Maggot glories in exposing the doom of 
all hopes and extracting shards of value from the failure of everyone else’s schemes. 
The Maggot is the ultimate scavenger, wearing down the world until all props, 
sources of security, comfort and shelters disappear. 
The Merchant. The value of a thing is what that thing will bring. The 
Merchant drives bargains, knowing that nothing need remain with its current 
owner if the price is right. The Merchant makes bargains that leave everyone a bit 
worse off than before, feeding Oblivion through dissatisfaction and covetousness. 
The Nurse. The world hurts, and nothing matters more than soothing pain. 
The Nurse brings peace through relief from the sources of pain, healing for old 
wounds and finally the ultimate release that comes from isolation. The Nurse 
guides its Psyche into quiet realms, away from Passions. 
The Officer. Wraiths, like mortals, are weak and in need of direction. The 
Officer takes charge, getting the Underworld in systematic order, so that in due 
time it can all march off into Oblivion in perfect harmony. In the meantime, the 
Officer punishes all who resist. 
The Opium-Eater. Life is pain. So is death. Nothing matters but enjoyment 
-not the foul, gross pleasures the Id seeks, but the refined intellectual purity that 
comes from a mind untroubled and yet at liberty to engage with the world. The 
Opium-Eater seeks something that makes the Psyche detached. 
The Patriot. What matters is the nation. The Patriot carries into death the 
conviction that its living allegiance remains paramount. It will betray any other 
group if the betrayal might advance the nation (or weaken the nation’s enemies) 
and do whatever seems likely to help make the nation strong. 
The Peasant. Life was simple, and death can be, too. The Peasant seeks 
some simple routine and some strong leader to give the orders. The Peasant 
punishes the Psyche for ambitions that would stir routine, preparing the character 
for Oblivion by establishing a pattern that requires less and less passion until only 
the habit remains. 
The Revolutionary. The world reeks of tyranny, but it can change if people 
act. The Revolutionary picks its target and seeks to overthrow the source of 
tyranny. Unlike the Anarchist, however, the Revolutionary also seeks to build up 
a utopian alternative. The Revolutionary seeks a new order, not disorder. 
The Superego. The Id aims for the moment’s pleasure; the Superego 
subordinates all current pleasures to ultimate goals. The Superego punishes the 
Psyche for seeking present gratification, and rewards self-denial in the name of 
long-term Passions. As long as it means being unhappy or uncomfortable now for 
the sake of some satisfaction that may never come, it suits the Superego. 


THORNS 
Shadowed Sense: 1 Trait. The Shadow can distort one aspect of the local 
environment. This costs two Angst Traits for a Shadowlands effect or three Traits 
to include Skinlands manifestation. (Reduce the Angst costs by one Trait while 
the wraith is in Catharsis.) The Shadow specifies a particular effect, which lasts for 
one hour. The Shadow can only affect one sense, chosen when buying this Thorn; 
to affect multiple senses, buy it several times and spend all the required Angst. 
Typical visual effects include sudden darkness, shadows without apparent 
sources and fuzzy luminous forms. Common smell manifestations include salty sea 
air, smoke and rotting flesh. The paraphernalia of haunting, including rattling 
chains, low moans and rising shrieks abruptly cut off are popular aural effects, as are 
unexpected echoes (or the suppression of echoes). Tactile illusions include icy 
chill and the touch of unseen fingers. 
Idee Fixe: 2 Traits. The Shadow stimulates one of the wraith's Passions to 
furious intensity. Spend one Angst Trait and make a Test of Angst against 
Willpower. If successful, the Shadow specifies a particular Passion to become so 
intense that the wraith must act in a way that qualifies for a Passion check within 
one hour or lose a Trait of Willpower. 
Shell Shock (Dissociation): 2 Traits. Wraiths with military experience call 
this Thorn Shell Shock; civilians generally call it Dissociation. Spend one Angst 
Trait. For the next hour, the wraith cannot regain Pathos from a particular chosen 
Passion unless the Psyche first beats the Shadow in a contest of Willpower against 
Angst. While suffering from a blocked Passion, the Psyche feels emotionally numb 
in matters related to the emotion in question. 
Collective Unconscious: 3 Traits. The Shadow can speak to other Shadows 
without the Psyche noticing. (The Psyche can detect this only by winning a Static 
Mental Challenge against the Shadow's Angst plus threeTraits.) ThisThorn costs 
nothing when the other Shadow has the same Archetype or one Angst per minute 
of conversation when speaking to Shadows of other Archetypes. 
Pact of Doom: 3 Traits. The Great Maelstrom lets Oblivion's forces roam 
more fieelv. Shadows in the Great War era can teach Dark Arcanoi at reeular cost 
" 
and the wraithly and Shadow arts of other Dark Kingdoms for one extra Angst 
Trait per level. 
STEP EIVE: LAST TOUCHES 
Proceed as instructed in Oblivion. Note that wraith Corpus levels stay the 
same whether or not you update to include Lethal and Bashing damage as in Laws 
of the Night, Revised Edition. 
STEP SIX: SPARK 
OE UNLIEE 
Complete your character as in Oblivion. 
THE 
ARCANOI 
The Arcanoi are the arts and crafts of the Restless Dead. They include 
supernatural feats because the Underworld and all its inhabitants are supernatural, 
but the process of learning and using the Arcanoi is (in its way) mundane. A wraith 
needs only a teacher, time and diligence. 


Whenever your character uses an art that can affect more than one target, use 
the Mob Scene rules from Laws of the Night, Revised Edition, p. 196. 
FXTENDED 
CHALLENC~FS 
Many players dislike extended challenges. These rules keep them to a 
bare minimum. If you enjoy the element of uncertainty and don’t find a few 
extra rounds of challenge wearisome, then you can convert a great many 
more Arcanos systems to extended challenges. Whenever there’s a system 
that specifies a unit of return per point of Pathos, Willpower or some other 
characteristic, interpret it to mean each success in the extended challenge 
produces that unit of return. 
KINESIS 
This Arcanos is the pre-computers form of Inhabit. 
Innate Abilities 
Straddle. The wraith blends into a Skinlands object. She gains temporary 
concealment, but she acquires no control over the object. 
System: Make a Static Physical Challenge, difficulty of the local Shroud rating. 
If successful, the wraith blends into an object for one turn per permanent Physical 
Trait. Another wraith also using Str& 
on the same object must win a Physical 
Challenge to displace the first. Sense Kinesis and Sense Rider do detect a wraith using 
Straddle; destroying the object inflicts one level of damage on the wraith. 
Basic Abilities 
Bind. The wraith passes his hand through a Skinlands device, making it 
seize up momentarily. Clocks stop, automobiles stall and large or complex ma- 
chines grind to a halt. Someone must restart the machine; fragile machinery 
generally needs a shaking as well as a restart. This art does not affect devices that 
contain no moving parts. 
System: Make a Static Physical Challenge against the local Shroud rating. 
Anyone attempting to restart the stopped machine must make one separate 
attempt per permanent Physical Trait of the wraith using Bind. Investing emo- 
tional energy by swearing at the machine, kicking it, shaking it and the like makes 
one attempt count as three. 
Reliquary.Thewraithstrengthensan inanimateobject by imbuing it withPathos. 
System: Make a Static Physical Challenge against the local Shroud rating 
plus five Traits. If successful, the wraith can transfer one or more points of Pathos 
to the target item. Each Trait protects the object against one incident that would 
otherwise destroy it. Once it does its protective work, the Pathos dissipates. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Haywire. The wraith seizes control of a Skinlands machine and manipu- 
lates it. He can, for instance, make an automobile weave, stop or accelerate to full 
speed, but he cannot actually steer it. 
System: Make a Static Social Challenge against the local Shroud rating. If 
successful, the wraith can make the target device perform one general action per 
point of current Willpower. Extra actions cost one Pathos apiece. If any of the 
actions harm another person directly, the wraith gains a Trait of Angst. 


Claim. The wraith reaches into a Skinlands device and makes it an extension 
of her own body. If unattuned, she can only sense through it. Once attuned, she can 
control it completely, making it do anything physically possible for it. 
System: Spend three Pathos. Make a Static Mental Challenge against the 
local Shroud rating. Very complex objects (like factories) and very large ones (like 
houses) may require two or even three successes in an extended challenge. Claim 
lasts as long as the wraith remains in contact with the target. 
Attunement requires the wraith to spend Willpower: one for a handheld 
object, two or three for a car and other bulky objects, up to five for a house and as 
many as 10 for a factory. Once attuned to an object, the wraith gets a two-Trait 
bonus to efforts at Claim. 
Advanced Ability 
Ludd’s Grip. The wraith can make a Skinlands device rip itself apart 
through seizing up, causing some parts to run backward and other calamitous 
failures. Devices prone to exploding generally do so. 
System: Spend three Pathos and one Willpower, and gain one Angst Trait. Make 
a Static Physical Challenge against the local Shroud rating. If successful, the wraith 
makes the target device break and fail. To induce particularly spectacular breakdowns 
and explosions, make two Simple Tests. If one succeeds, the device throws off pieces, 
leaks fluids and so on; if both succeed, if the device can explode, it does. 
LIEFWEB 
The Great War version of Lrfeweb focuses much more on the individual’s own 
experience and on coping with the psychic stresses of the Great Maelstrom. Storytellers 
should feel at liberty to allow players’ characters to learn Lrfeweb as the problems the 
modern-day versionpresents seldom arise. (As always, the Storytellerretains veto power.) 
Innate Ability 
Locate Fetter. The wraith can probe the area around any of his Fetters and 
sense the Fetter’s distance and direction from himself. 
System: Make a Static Mental Challenge against the local Shroud rating plus 
two Traits. The wraith gets a vague sense of anything happening close to his chosen 
Fetter. He may make the same sort of challenge to learn the Fetter’s general 
distance and direction. 
Basic Abilities 
Lifeline. The wraith constructs a psychic link that binds herself to another 
wraith, letting them act as pseudo-Fetters for each other. They can pool their 
strength to resist the Maelstrom and more readily rescue each other from a nihil 
or Spectral abduction. 
System: Spend one Pathos, and make a Social Challenge. If successful, the 
wraith makes a link to another wraith; the one using Lifeline must sit quietly and 
monitor it. If she takes other actions, the line disappears. The Lifeline creator may 
transfer Traits in any category to the other wraith, one per Trait of the creator’s 
current Willpower. Wraiths may use these Traits only in resisting Maelstrom and 
Spectral complications. Loaned Traits return when the use of Lifeline ends. 
The Lifeline creator knows immediately when the other wraith falls into the 
Tempest. She may make a Static Mental Challenge against the local Maelstrom 
level to know just where the other wraith is, and she can direct others to that point 
for rescue. The Lifeline creator may also make a Static Physical Challenge against 


double the local Maelstrom level to attempt to pull the other wraith out. Spectres 
can pull back, turning it into a contest and adding double the Maelstrom level to 
their own Physical Traits for the purpose. 
The wraith may make more than one Lifeline at a time, but no wraith can 
receive more than one Lifeline at a time. The creator can only loan a given Trait 
to one other wraith at a time. Trying to pull a wraith out of the Tempest costs one 
Trait of Pathos for each attempt. 
Fetter Sentry. The wraith forges a link between himself and a Fetter (his 
own or another wraith‘s), protecting it with his own Corpus. 
System: Spend three Pathos. Make a Static Physical Challenge against the 
local Shroud rating plus three Traits. Now, any damage done to the Fetter passes 
on to the wraith instead. He may soak and heal it as usual. The wraith gets a one- 
Trait bonus per level of Fetter rating for purposes of resisting damage. Fetter Sentry 
costs one Pathos Trait every two days to maintain; the wraith can drop it at any 
time. This art does not work against Fetters that are or have been used as Conduits. 
The wraith can maintain one Fetter Sentry for each level of Lifeweb he knows. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Splice Strand. The wraith manufactures a Fetter-like tie between a wraith 
and a Skinlands person, place or thing. The wraith using Splice Strand must touch 
the object with one hand and the wraith gaining the Fetter with the other at the 
time the link is created. 
System: Spend one Pathos. Make a Static Social Challenge against the local 
Shroud rating plus two Traits. If successful, the wraith creates a new levelaone 
Fetter. The target wraith (which may be the wraith using this art) must spend one 
Pathos per day to maintain it. The wraith using Splice Strand can reattach another 
wraith to a severed Fetter. Doing so doesn’t require Pathos to maintain, but the 
difficulty is the local Shroud rating plus four Traits, and it takes aTrait of temporary 
Willpower as well as Pathos. 
Sever Strand. The wraith can break the connection between a wraith and 
a particular Fetter. Doing so triggers an immediate Harrowing as well as the long- 
term consequences of having one less Fetter. 
System: Spend two Pathos and one Willpower and gain three temporary 
Angst. Make a Physical Challenge against the target wraith. (If the target’s 
Willpower is higher than his total of Physical Traits, use Willpower instead.) If 
successful, the severer cuts a Fetter tie, and the target falls into a Harrowing. Splice 
Strund can repair the damage; the Fetter’s owner can also touch the former Fetter 
and spend a point of permanent Willpower to fix it himself. 
Advanced Ability 
Torsion. The wraith pulls at a Spectre’s Fetters, sending Pathos along them 
to remind the Spectre of existence before losing to the Shadow. The surge of 
emotion paralyzes the Spectre. This art doesn’t work against Spectres who no 
longer have any Fetters, of course. 
System: Spend three Pathos Traits. The wraith must touch the target Spectre 
with a hand or melee weapon, then make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the 
wraith makes a Static Social Challenge against a total of [lo- the Spectre’s highest 
Fetter rating] Traits. The Spectre remains paralyzed for one turn per Trait of the 
wraith‘s current Pathos. 


DARK WATFRS DISTANT 
A  REA AT WAR SCENARIO EOR OBLIVION 
by Steve McDonald 
“Dark Waters Distant” is designed with an eye toward insertion into an 
existing live-action chronicle, but is also suitable for we as the “first conflict” found 
at the start of a new chronicle. Use the entire outline of the story ur feel free to lift 
whichever pieces work best in your chronicle. Strict faithfulness to the letter of the 
material we provide is not mandatory. However you decide to use this material, be 
prepared for player ingenuity and creativity. 
BACKC~ROUND 
This scenario is based on the real life exploits of the Imperial Japanese Navy 
destroyer Sakaki. As a member of the Allied Powers, Japan sent a token force of 
destroyers to support naval operations in the Mediterranean, both in support of the 
Gallipoli landing and the remaining Allied troops in the Balkans. One pair of 
destroyers dispatched to the region were the sister ships Matsu and Sakaki, arriving 
in the area in early 1917. Assigned to escort duty, the pair performed well, with the 
Matsu rescuing 2,500 British soldiers from the torpedoed troopship Transylvania. 
An Austro-Hungarian submarine torpedoed the Sakaki in June of 1917, with 
68 hands drowning in the aftermath of the attack. Damaged but not destroyed, the 
ship was escorted to Italy for repairs. However, imagine for the purposes of our game 
setting that the submarine attack had a more serious effect. Imagine that the 
torpedo that struck the Sakaki caused the main boiler to explode, mortally 
wounding the ship and dramatically increasing the number of casualties.. .. 
Those unfortunates who died aboard the Sakaki with troubled hearts and 
minds soon woke to the reality of an afterlife totally alien to them. It was only due 
to the quick action of the captain and the remaining officers that the destruction 
of the Enfant crew was averted. Subsequent conflicts have led to the end of more 
members of the crew, and the total complement of the Sakaki is 25 officers and men. 
THE CURRENT 
SITUATION 
The ship is still intact and functional, but the crew has grown increasingly 
weary of the constant wandering brought on by their alien status. Captain 
Yamada has refused to ally himself with any of the factions of the Civil War in 
Stygia, and while their independence has prevented bloodier conflicts, it has also 
prevented the use of a specific port as a base. While supplies may not be as 
pressing a need for the Restless, the need for a secure harbor to weather out a 
Maelstrom is certainly required. 
Yamada realizes that he has arrived at a point where he cannot afford to 
remain neutral. To circumvent the problem of a direct alliance with any of the 
factions, Yamada has decided to seek a partnership with one of the smaller 
Necropoli. In exchange for the power that the Sakaki and her crew can provide, the 
crew would have a base in which to seek shelter from Maelstroms and othex 


‘- 1 
dangers. Unfortunately for the players, Yamada will negotiate with any faction he 
deems powerful enough to deliver the items he desires. In short, Renegades and 
other such factions will be given equal treatment from the captain as long as they 
possess the power to deliver what they promise. 
Unbeknownst to the Japanese officers and crew, however, a threat to the ship 
is emerging from within. The Japanese officers in the engine room did not make 
the passage into wraithhood, and the captain has had to promote from the boiler- 
room crew to make up for their loss. The engine crew is now made up of impressed 
Korean and Okinawan sailors, men who resented their subservience to the 
Japanese officers long before their death. Under leadership of Cho, the current 
engine chief, a mutiny had been brewing before the sinking of the ship. With the 
passing of the initial dangers to the ship, Cho’s thoughts have turned again to the 
overthrow of the captain and the loyal sailors. 
However, the real reason for the new mutinous thoughts is much more 
insidious. Due to a lack of Pardoners aboard and the reluctance of European wraiths 
to deal with the strange Shadows of the crew, Cho and some of the other engine- 
room crew are losing their battle with their other halves. The mutiny is a front for 
a conspiracy to bring the Sakaki over to Oblivion. 
ARRIVAL 
OP THE SAKAKI 
Upon entering the port, Captain Yamada and a small group of crewmen will 
enter the Necropolis and seek out the nominal head of the city. Yamada’s party will 
be well-trained and armed, and they should be able to dispatch any opportunistic 
rogues looking for easy pickings. 
Once Yamada has contacted and arranged a meeting with the city’s rulers, he 
will state what it is he wishes from the relationship. Specifically, he would like use 
of the harbor area, with a section being set aside for the crew’s exclusive use and 
free passage for members of his crew who wish to visit the Necropolis. In return, the 
captain is willing to ferry local citizens to nearby locations beyond the walls that 
have been cut off by the Great Maelstrom and aid in the defense of the Necropolis 
from its enemies. 
Given the assets that the Sakaki brings, some sort of deal will likely be reached 
after some time spent bargaining and roleplaying. The conclusion of the agreement 
will bring the ship and its crew into port for a long overdue rest. Unbeknownst to 
the captain and his new partners, however, a second wave of negotiations is about 
to begin. 
ARRIVAL 
OF C H O  
With the new shore privileges enjoyed by the crew, Cho and his faction can 
seek out the opponents of the captain’s new allies and attempt to gain their 
assistance. Any groups that the captain’s party spumed will be obvious targets for 
Cho. Cho is a natural for allegiance with whatever Renegade or Insurrectionist 
groups are active in the area, and he will gladly supply them with items smuggled 
off the ship. 
Storytellers will most likely wish to allow the above situation to continue for 
a few sessions in order to allow the various factions to form up. Both groups have 
decided advantages. The captain has the most immediate access to the ship and the 
resources it provides (such as Relics, mindless seaman Drones and munitions). 


Furthermore, he will be able to relate easily with any upper-class wraiths or former 
sailors (especially British ones). 
The faction that backs the mutineers has one important edge: surprise. It has 
not occurred to the captain in the slightest that the engine room is harboring a 
mutiny. It is inconceivable to him that the Asian wraiths would allow themselves 
to become divided so far from home. Cho plans on showing him the falsity of this 
notion. The ship’s Japanese officers have long oppressed and imprisoned Cho and 
his co-conspirators, and their feelings may strike sympathetic chords with Loyalists 
in an Imperialist Necropolis. The Koreans’ appeal to local Renegade groups should 
be obvious as well. 
Complicating matters is a secret motivator behind Cho’s actions: his increas- 
ingly powerful Po. Initially willing to settle for the end of the Sakaki and its crew, 
it has set its sights on anew prize: the players’ Necropolis. While Renegades or more 
liberal Hierarchy members may sympathize with the plight of the engine crew, 
their opinions will almost certainly change when (or if) they discover the darker 
motivations at work. 
THE BITTER FND 
Once you set these factors into play, your particular chronicle can take off in 
any direction you desire. However, consider the following as a possible outcome. 
Assuming that the players are unable to defuse the situation brought on by 
Cho’s conspirators, the sides will inevitably clash. Cho’s plan will call for 
smuggling whatever co-conspirators are combat threats into the engine-room area. 
From there, the group will storm the officers’ mess in an attempt to capture the 
captain and his officers. Once he’s done so, Cho intends to turn the awesome 
firepower of the Sakaki on the very walls of the Necropolis. 
Cho’s promise of great amounts of carnage has drawn the attention of 
Oblivion’s soldiers. They swarm the Sakaki, rallying against the captain’s officers 
(and whomever else stands with them) while the mutineers make their move. 
Should the mutineers fall, the Shadow-eaten will continue their assault on the 
Sakaki. Their goal, like Cho’s, is to maneuver the Sakaki into firing position and 
bring down the walls of the players’ Necropolis. Should they do so, they will swarm 
the city, laying waste to everything in sight. 
A likely result of this scenario is the destruction of the sakaki. Realizing Cho’s 
intent, Captain Yamada (or the remaining loyal officers) will attempt to pull the 
ship away from the port to spare the Necropolis further damage. If he is unable to 
do so, his only recourse will be to detonate the ship’s magazine. Should Cho be 
roused from the control of his P’o and realize just what he has done, he may undergo 
a last-minute change of heart as well. He can engineer an explosion of the engines, 
which would stop the bombardment and put an end to the mutiny as well. It is even 
possible that the Spectres leading the attack on the Necropolis and the Sakaki will 
change their objectives if they realize that they are losing the battle to use the 
Sakaki as a weapon. As a last resort, they may choose to detonate the ship’s 
magazine themselves, settling for taking out as many wraiths as they can tha way. 
D A M A ~ E  
CONTROL 
Possible problems with the scenario begin with the player reaction to the 
appearance of the ship. Rowdy players may decide that a heavily armed Japanese 


destroyer would make an excellent yacht while Relic-scavengers will salivate over 
the floating haul that the Sakaki represents. 
Storytellers can easily avoid this outcome through a variety of means. The 
easiest is to impress upon the players the destructive power that the Sakaki carries 
aboard. A glance at the Great War sourcebook shows the level of injury possible 
with modem weapons. From a roleplaying perspective, wraiths who were veterans 
of constant shelling from land guns can extrapolate just how bad a barrage from the 
deck of the Sakuki would be. Another means of stopping player shenanigans is 
altering the local defense situation to make the ship more attractive. Scavengers 
may want the ship, but when it is all that stands between them and Oblivion, it 
suddenly develops shelf life. 
The second most likely problem is the survival of the Sakaki itself. While the 
destroyer makes an excellent plot feature, placing such firepqwer in the hands of 
the local Necropolis can unbalance the long-term health of the chronicle. It is 
conceivable that early detection of the P o  influence on Cho or a lack of support 
for one of the factions could cause the mutiny to either not occur or to end before 
the arrival of the Oblivion’s hordes. 
It can easily be impressed on the minds of the characters who hold the city 
what a danger the Sukuki could be to their health. A ship of that size would attract 
interest, interest that could draw the community deeper into the Stygian Civil 
War. The ship could well bring on a host of internal problems as different factions 
in the city vie again and again for control of the potent vessel. 
VARIATIONS 
Of course, you may mod& the preceding scenario to fit your chronicle in any 
way you wish. In your game, the Sakuki may not be destroyed at all. It may remain 
throughout the life of the game, anchored just off-site, providing another in-game 
location or a constant source of conflict. The players’ characters may even decide 
to scuttle it after the preceding events play out to supplement their war effort. 
However, if the basic premise doesn’t appeal to you, try including the Sakuki 
in your Great War chronicle in these alternate ways: 
RAIDER 
The ship could simply be a pirate preying upon the locals. Remove the 
Korean-conspiracy element, add a greater degree of P‘o influence onboard, and you 
have a basic scenario for starting and intermediate players to tangle with. 
To SAVE 
OUR EORMER 
ALLIES 
In another variation that removes Cho and his corruption, the captain of the 
Sukuki wishes to use the port for a far different reason. After finding himself in the 
Shadowlands, Yamada hopes to establish the players’ Necropolis as a base to 
extract Western wraiths from the African theater ofwar. Interaction with the Bush 
of Ghosts and exposure to the strange Arcanos of African wraiths are a few of the 
more basic offerings this chronicle concept provides. This frame establishes the 
players’ Necropolis as a central refuge for many different types of wraiths, allowing 
for a constant influx of new story potential. 


IMPRESSMENT 
Assume that Captain Yamada’s intentions are not so noble as they would 
appear to be. In this variant scenario, the captain’s negotiations are a front for 
something more insidious. With the recent deaths of some of his crew members, 
the captain needs replacements. And where would be better to draw those 
crewmen from than a Necropolis with no protector from depredation? 
STORYTELLER 
CHARACTERS 
The two most influential characters driving this chronicle concept are 
Captain Toshio Yamada and the Korean Pien Cho. Build these characters using 
the Dark Kingdom of Jade rules provided in the fourth issue of the Journal, 
but feel 
free to adjust their relative levels of power to remain in balance with your 
chronicle. However, there are some basic characteristics to keep in mind when 
creating these characters. 
Captain Yamada’s main regret is that he died outside of Japan. He is a shrewd 
and dignified leader who inspires confidence and trust in his officers and crew. He 
is a staunch supporter of the Allied cause during the Great War, and he is willing 
to assist the Allies who have found themselves in the Shadowlands. His Passions 
include his desire to protect the honor and security of the Sakaki, to protect his crew 
and those with whom he makes alliances and to return to his native Japan once the 
Great Maelstrom abates to a level in which that return is possible. 
Cho, on the other hand, shares no such patriotism with Captain Yamada. His 
regret is that he died while impressed into servitude aboard the Sakaki, and his P’o 
should never cease to remind him of that regret. Driven thus, Cho will stop at 
nothing to gain his freedom, overthrow the haughty Captain Yamada and perhaps 
even return to his own native Korea. If he can do so with the reclaimed Sakuki as 
his prize, that’s all the better. 


COSTUMINC~ 
EOR LIVE-ACTION PLAY 
by Laura D. Hanson 
This article is the first in a limited series on the hows and wherefores of 
historical URP costuming. We found Laura at the 1999 Gen-Con, and we’re 
glad we did so. And for those astute readers out there who caught the last issue of 
the Journal, no, Laura is not “Auntie Csilla.” 
~~ 
~ 
~ 
First off, for those of you wondering who this woman is and why you should 
be taking advice from her at all, here’s a little back history on me. Currently, 
I run a small costuming business in New York City. I have about 15 years of 
practical costuming experience, gathered in various places like university 
costume shops, Renaissance festivals and the occasional Halloween and LARP 
sewing gig. Regular Gen-Con attendees may also have encountered my 
costumes (usually with me in them) wandering through the dealers’ hall. 
Along the way, I also managed to pick up a degree in medieval history (so 
please forgive me if the Dark Ages section seems to run on a bit), all of which 
leaves me qualified to talk to you about some of the more important aspects of 
accurate period costuming. And that is more than enough about me. Let’s get 
on to the costume-designing, shall we? 
The most important piece of preliminary advice I can give you is, “Get 
thee to a library!” Yes, this means research. Stick your nose into a book about 
the time period you are going to game in and read about it. Find etchings or 
drawings or photographs of people from the time and study the way their 
clothes looked. If you really want an authentic feel for the era that you’re about 
to enter, research it. That, in its simplest form, is really the best advice that 
anyone can give you about costuming for a historical setting. Since the reality 
of it is slightly more complex than that, let me give you a few points on how 
to wade through all of the information (and misinformation) out there. My 
advice will enable you to garb your character effectively and satisfactorily for 
play in the Dark Ages, the Wild West or the Great War period. 
THE 
DARKAGES 
Just to get one of the more common misconceptions about Dark Ages 
fashion (not to mention one of my pet peeves) out of the way, noblemen at the 
end of the 12th century never spent their days dressed in full plate mail armor. 
The first reason being that full plate armor did not exist until the 13th century 
or so, and the second reason is that even when it did exist, wearing it to dinner 
would have been roughly equivalent to strapping on a Volkswagen and trying 
to eat. It just didn’t happen. 
Another stereotype that you should avoid is the Robin Hood look, made 
famous by Errol Flynn and more recently Cary Elwes. As a part of this look, 


heroes wore tights and streamlined suede vests. Every line of these outfits 
existed to show off the contours of a heroic frame. There was actually a time 
when men dressed this way, and it’s called 1930s Hollywood. Second, the 
pointed hennin, or “princess hat,” also comes from a later date, more like the 
13th or 14th centuries, as does any form of close-fitting garment. 
Yes, that’s right. Dark Ages fashion had yet to discover tailoring. Clothes for 
both men and women were long and simply cut, with very few seams. Clothing 
style did not differ much from class level to class level, but quality and amount 
of material did. For example, a peasant woman might wear a simple wool ankle- 
length gown, but a noblewoman would wear a floor-length version of the same 
style, made out of velvet or brocaded cloth with a second, shorter gown over it. 
Castle dwellers wore more clothing not only because they had more money, but 
because castles were really cold and damp and generally unpleasant. 
Color was another important factor in class-distinction. Animal- and 
vegetable-based dyes were expensive, and they faded quickly. Therefore, the 
deeper the color of your clothes, the more prosperous you looked because you 
could obviously afford to either keep re-dying things or buying new ones. In a 
world where most people had only two sets of clothes at a time (if they were 
lucky), dark or brilliantly colored clothing practically shouted “Nobility!” 
There were even sumptuary laws governing what colors each level of noble 
could wear. It was a way to maintain a visual class distinction among courtiers, 
helping people to “know their place.” Purple was usually reserved for royalty 
only, no matter what country you hailed from, but rulers would often also enact 
laws restricting their favorite colors. Color also came into play with heraldry, 
with different courts dressing in the colors of their ruler’s coat-of-arms. Use of 
color could be very effective in game play if, for example, only the prince and 
prince’s courtiers dressed in scarlet. The color of blood and power would be an 
immediate visual reminder of who truly rules the city. 
The basic style for men was a long-sleeved T-tunic gown (yes, I said gown) 
that slipped on over the head and reached mid-calf in length. It was worn 
belted at the waist and was very loose-fitting to allow for ease of movement. 
Men commonly wore knitted stockings as leg coverings and either plain 
leather slippers or sandals. (Birkenstock-style shoes work well for this look, 
although they do tend to be pricey.) The only other piece of the daily wardrobe 
was the cape or cloak, cut on a circular pattern. These garments had no 
shoulder seams or hoods. They consisted of just a large circle or partial circle 
of fabric, draped around the shoulders and held either with circle pins or a band 
of fabric stitched to create a neck opening. Since patterns of any kind actually 
had to be woven into the cloth instead of printed on top, decoration commonly 
took the form of edge trim in wide bands which could be removed from one 
garment and transferred to another when the first one wore out. 
There are two ways to approach dressing for the Dark Ages as a man. One 
is to grit your teeth, find someone who sews and be really nice to them - 
then 
to learn to wear tights and like it. The other way is to simplify your wardrobe. 
~ 


Wear very plain drawstring pants and a plain, oversized pullover shirt with a 
simple neckline that you feel comfortable wearing a belt over (so you have 
somewhere to put that all-important belt pouch). Find undecorated, slip-on 
boots if you’re not the sandals type, and invest your wardrobe money in a full- 
circle or half-circle cloak. This is one of the few time periods I would 
recommend buying a cape for first, but 12th-century clothing was all about 
draperies. Wear fabric, and lots of it. 
Now for the ladies. Your basic wardrobe would be something like this: a 
lightweight linen or cotton full length slip called a chemise, usually white or 
off-white, over that a floor-length dress with long, tight sleeves and a high 
neck-line. Over that, wear a knee-length overdress with shorter, wider sleeves. 
A belt cinched everything in at the waist. Unmarried women could wear their 
hair down loosely or in braids while married women wore veils draped over 
their hair, sometimes held by a band of braided cloth or a circlet of metal that 
was almost Arabic in style. Plain boots are good for outdoor footwear, while 
“ballerina flat” style shoes make good indoor slippers. 
To capture the basic look, I would recommend a long-sleeve unstructured 
dress, floor length if possible. If you can find one in a solid color and a natural 
fabric like linen, cotton or wool, great. If you happen to sew, two patterns that 
have the right basic feel to them are Simplicity 9103 (version D, but longer) 
and McCall’s 7957 (versions A or E). Then accessorize. For hip girdles, look 
in thrift shops for chain-belts with long tails that will hang down your skirts, 
or check the upholstery section of your local fabric store for thick, decorative 
cording that can serve the same purpose. For “older” female characters, veiling 
the hair is necessary. The veil should be a white or sheer lightweight fabric, not 
bridal veiling or tulle. If your character is wealthy, heavy chain necklaces and 
large rings (again, look in thrift stores or “antique malls”) make good additions 
to your costume. You can also add a half or full-circle cloak to top things off. 
THE WILD WEST 
All women in the Old West were not saloon girls who wore satin and 
feathers and showed off their legs. Similarly, all men were not gamblers, 
cowboys, Indians, buckskinned Wild Bill Hickock types, gunslingers or sher- 
iffs. They were mostly average farmer types who had more in common with 
Littk House on the Prairie than with Tombstone. Clothes were simple and easy 
to take care of because there were more important things to worry about. The 
main thing to remember is that the Wild West happened during the Victorian 
era, which means that high fashion echoed English clothing of the time. This 
knowledge can make research quite a bit easier to find since it widens your field 
of reference. 
Guys, things just got easier for you. Men’s clothing had begun to settle into 
the same basic patterns it follows today, which means that pulling together 
your outfit might just be as easy as delving into your closet. A man’s basic 


wardrobe in the 1800s would be plain, pull-on work boots, wool pants (zippers 
were invented already, so no worries there) with suspenders and a button-up, 
collarless shirt. The shirts could be white, or solid colors like red or blue, and 
they often had vertical stripes on a white background. Add a few accessories 
like a bandanna or a single-breasted vest, and that’s it - 
you’re done. 
If you’re planning on playing a cowboy or a gold-miner type, you can even 
get away with blue jeans, just as long as they’re not modern looking. Modem 
in this case means anything really tight fitting or super-baggy, or anything that 
has labels all over it. Basic, boring, straight-leg Levi’s in dark blue denim are 
the most accurate match you’ll find today. Also, you should avoid anything 
“something-washed” or ripped, unless you want to look poor. Tom clothes did 
not denote fashion; they denoted poverty. 
A good, basic piece of costuming to focus on here is the vest. A vest in the 
right style can completely change the character of an outfit. A fancy, double- 
breasted vest with satin lapels can make a white shirt and dress slacks into a 
gambler’s uniform. Add the low-slung hip-holster and a wide, flat-brimmed 
hat and you’re a gunslinger (although no prop guns in a LARP, please). 
Working-class types might wear a more plain, single-breasted vest made out of 
canvas or wool. Suspenders are another good way to achieve a working-class 
look. They create the impression of a man who spends a lot of time laboring 
with his jacket off. 
Women of the era ran the gamut from strictly corseted, bustle-pad- 
wearing Victorian ladies, all the way down to the women who dressed in men’s 
clothes because of the hard labor they did, such as panning for gold or farming. 
Basic fashion dictated a full ankle-length skirt, worn with petticoats and 
bloomers underneath. High-necked white blouses, often with lots of detailed 
stitching, accompanied the look, which often included a short, fitted jacket. 
Dresses were cut along similar lines, with close, fitted bodices, long sleeves and 
full skirts. Everyday wear was mostly cotton or calico-print, while more formal 
wear could be silk or satin or even velvet. Proper women never exposed their 
legs in public (even sight of an ankle was considered shocking), but in formal 
evening dress, it was common to see low-cut necklines and short sleeves 
exposing the arms. The “fallen angels,” as saloon girls were often called, went 
to even further extremes, sometimes wearing completely sleeveless gowns with 
the skirts cut scandalously short. The Victorians loved color, and saloon girls 
also took this favor to extremes, wearing bright, contrasting patterns such as 
stripes and checks together. They wore their hair back, away from the face, and 
they piled it up in a bun or curls. Shoes should be easy to find, just look for the 
low-heeled, lace-up “granny-boot” style of today. (There is after all, a reason 
we call them “granny-boots.”) 


THE 
(;REAT WAR FRA 
The time period surrounding the Great War actually suffers from the least 
amount of stereotyping of the eras mentioned here. Mostly, that’s because it 
was a time of major transition: adecade in a world moving from the restrictions 
of the Victorian era to the free spirit of the 1920s with “The War to End All 
Wars” thrown in to help move things along. 
Men’s clothing had basically settled into the patterns it follows today, at 
least in more formal dress. Suits were slightly more fitted at the waist and 
buttoned higher at the front so that the lapels were shortened. Vests were still 
commonly worn, and hats were still very much in fashion. Men wore bowlers 
or flat “newsboy” caps for daywear, straw boaters (think Barbershop Quartets) 
in the summer and top hats for the evening. Vertical stripes were very popular 
in both jackets and shirts, usually a darker stripe on a light background, but 
dark suits with pin-stripes were also popular. If you invest in a good tweed or 
pinstripe vest and a hat of the appropriate type, you should have two of the 
cornerstones of your costume. All that you’ll need to add to it are the extras, 
like pocket watches and handkerchiefs. 
Women’s fashion, on the other hand was all over the place. Women were 
moving away from the tight restrictions of corsets and long skirts as they moved 
from the home into the workplace, although they had not yet achieved the 
freedom that the 1920’s would give them. Skirts had raised up to mid-calf, 
daywear allowed women to expose their arms for the first time, and the dancer 
Irene Castle had set the fashion for shorter, wavy hair and decorative headbands 
as well as dresses with flowing drapery and scarves. A suited, menswear style had 
also come into vogue, due in large part to women taking over in factories and 
such while the men were away at war. The ‘Isailor dress” with its uniform details 
was popular, as was the new “sports” look, which had women in mannish, 
tailored shirts, with ties and fitted jackets. Skirts remained at least calf-length 
and very full, similar to the poodle skirts of the 1950’s (sans poodles). 
A loose, calf-length tank dress in a satiny fabric would work well for 
evening wear. Pair it with a long scarf or rectangle of silky fabric draped around 
your neck with the ends flowing down your back. (Just be careful of car doors.) 
You can achieve an even better period silhouette by wrapping a scarf or shawl 
around your hips and then blousing the dress slightly over it. Wear it with a 
“flapper” headband (sequined, with an ostrich plume perhaps) and a few long 
strands of“pearl” beads to set the look. Stockings or hose and pumps (especially 
the ones with t-straps) are perfectly acceptable for footwear as women were 
beginning to show off their ankles. And if you just can’t wrap your brain 
visually around the look, think 1920’s “flapper” but with longer skirts. 
For daytime wear, look into pleated skirts and lots of plaids, which were 
very popular, especially in suits. Simple white blouses worn with short, wide 
neckties or scarves that match the suit make another nice period touch. 
Accessories included clutch bags, gloves and many different styles of hat. 


WRAPPING UP 
Finally, here are a few basic tips to help with any historic costume design. 
First, I meant what I said about research. Go to the library and look up your new 
time period if you aren’t familiar with it. Most library databases file clothing 
under the subject followed by the time period and/or the region. The Dark 
Ages, for example, would be found under “Costume-12th Century-European,” 
or more specifically “-Italy” or “-England” while the Wild West would be 
found at “Costume-1 9th Century-Western or -Victorian.’’ For the Great War 
era, look up America or Europe between 1914 and 1919. Some specific book 
titles that I like are The Mode in Costume by Ruth Turner Wilcox for a good, 
general overview of a lot of different time periods, and American Costume 191 5 
-1 970, which begins with a nice section on Great War fashion. 
If you just aren’t the library type, the Internet is your next best bet for 
information. There are all kinds of costuming sites and newsgroups online, 
many ofwhich are happy to help out people with questions. You can start your 
research someplace like alt.history.costuming on Usenet, or Costuming Re- 
sources Online at http://members.aol.com/nebula5/costume.html. An excellent 
source for tips on medieval costuming is the Society for Creative Anachro- 
nism; most of their local web-sites have links to costuming pages. 
For more visual references, you can watch movies dealing with the time, 
as long as they are well made with authentic costuming. I like Zeferelli’s Hamkt 
(yes, the one with Me1 Gibson) for its Dark Age costuming, as well as the 
Cudfuel mystery series on PBS. Corny as it sounds, Littk House on the Prairie had 
the whole settler look down fairly well. While I wouldn’t recommend sitting 
through all of that saccharine goodness just for a few costuming tips, if you 
happen to stumble across a re-run, it wouldn’t hurt to take a look. For the Great 
War, check out Legends ofthe Fall with Brad Pitt, Galipoli starring Me1 Gibson 
(he does seem to like those costume dramas) or Julie Andrews in Darling Lily 
(just remember that the fast-forward button can be your friend.) 
Last, but certainly not least, here are a few generic tips for historical dress 
that I would like to pass on since a lot of people tend to overlook them. Try to 
avoid wearing any kind of modem shoe with your costume, especially any sort 
of athletic shoe. It doesn’t matter what they look like or if they are black-they 
will never look right. And except in specific circumstances, a cape should 
absolutely, positively be the last thing that you buy for a costume. No really. It 
doesn’t cover up your street clothes; it just makes your street clothes look out 
of place. 
Again, research is the key to good costuming for live-action play. Find a 
look that appeals to you, and copy it as best you can. A good costume can go 
a long way to establishing a living, breathing (or not) character and make your 
roleplaying more compelling and entertaining for everyone involved. 
