1 
1 
t 
.A n 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


m 
U 
Most people go through life on a daily, endless round of chores and tasks 
- 
paying bills, going to school, working a job, raising a family. Many live 
their lives in ignorance of the danger that passes them on the street or 
1 lives in the mansion on the hill, walking through a bright blindness all 
their lives. Some, however, have their blindfolds ripped off, and the truth 
laid in front of them: monsters walk the world. Mundane concerns are 
swept away - 
there is no choice but to act. 
T'he Duty T'hat Gannet Be Ignpred 
Laws of the Reckoning contains all the material that players and Storytellers 
need for creating, playing and Storytelling those mortals who have become 
Imbued. From creating preludes, to the hunter classes, to Abilities ani-. 
Attributes, to the powers of the Edges, and Storytelling, this book has it 
all. All that remains is the choice - 
take up the good fight, or stand on 
the sidelines. There is no returning to ignorance. 
- 
- 
ISBN 1-58846-5 15-2 
WW 5037 $19.95 U.S. 
5 1 9 9 5  
I 9 781588 465153 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Nothing in life should ever be so bad it ruins a Friday night. 
Seth breathed a sigh of relief. Dinner had gone well, almost surprisingly 
so for a first date; they had shared mutual likes and dislikes about everything 
from television to classes they’d had in college, and so the subsequent 
invitation to head back to Melissa’s house for coffee had been a natural one. 
Most importantly, the drive had been silent as far as the Voices were 
concerned. Seth didn’t know how long his luck would hold, but as he poured 
their coffee and brought it back to the couch, he found himself whispering a 
small prayer that for once he’d be able to enjoy a normal evening. 
“So, what shall we watch?” Melissa asked, gesturing to the small stack of 
rented videos on the table. ‘‘I haven’t unpacked everything yet, but I’ve got 
a few romantic comedies, some Bruce Willis action flick, a couple of horror 
movies -“ 
“I’m always partial to Bruce Willis,” Seth interrupted, a little more 
hurriedly than he should’ve. Before, he had enjoyed horror movies, even 
considered himself something of an aficionado, but not anymore. Melissa 
simply smiled and pushed the tape into the machine, settling back down on 
the couch a little bit closer to him than before. Before long all he was aware 
of was the flickering light of the screen and the little ways that the two of them 
kept moving closer together as the movie went on. 
In fact, Seth had finally gotten his arm around her shoulders (she 
snuggled into the motion, always a good sign), when suddenly he realized that 
the sweet flower smell of her hair had soured into the hated, familiar scent of 
fresh earth and old, unquiet death. No, he screamed inside, fighting to keep 
from pushing her away as his thoughts accelerated toward panic, not now. Not 
here. I don’t want to see it. I don’t want to know. But the Voices didn’t grant his 
wish, and he felt himself begin to shake. 
Onscreen, Bruce Willis turned away from the bad guy he had just stylishly 
dispatched and looked Seth straight in the eye. “IT RISES TO FEED ON 
INNOCENCE,” he intoned, a hollow, booming sound Seth had come to 
identify with the Voice. The image shook, fizzled and then ran like wet paint 
until it had reformed into that of a wooden door at the bottom of a series of 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
cement steps. As he watched, transfixed, a shadow moved behind the glass, 
beyond the door, and he saw himself walking slowly down the steps, his hand 
reaching out- 
“Seth? Are you OK?” Melissa’s voice shook him out of his trance; her face 
in front of his, close, a look of worry in her eyes. Behind her, the television had 
returned to normal - 
of course, for her it had never changed at all. “You were 
shaking, I was worried-“ 
“I’m OK, I’m OK,” he said as reassuringly as he could manage, waving her 
concern away and hating himself for the lie. He covered it as best he could 
with another. “I was just startled by something - 
did you hear a noise just 
now? A big thud, then a clang?” 
“I don’t think so -“ 
“Really! ‘Cause I’m pretty sure I heard something.” Seth made his face 
into a mask of polite but sincere concern, another hated deception he did all 
too well. “If you didn’t, I don’t know, but it sounded pretty big to me.” He 
waited a few seconds, watching her desire to believe him conflict with her own 
sensory perceptions. When he saw her wavering he added, “If you want, I can 
check it out, it wouldn’t be a big deal.” 
“I guess so,” Melissasaid, standing up. “Let me show you to the basement.” 
Seth felt his pulse began to quicken.. .. 
0.. 
By the flickering light of the ancient bulb, Melissa’s basement appeared 
old and cracked, half full of the future, half full of the past, as antiques vied 
for space with the very new-looking washer and dryer. Dozens of moving 
crates were still stacked in various piles on the floor but there were also piles 
of odds and ends far too old and haphazardly scattered about to be hers. 
“Do you see anything?” Melissa’s voice carried down from the top of the 
stairs, where she waited for him, coffee cup still in hand. 
“No, not really,” Seth replied, and it was more of a truth than she could 
know. Back when the Voices had first spoken to him, he had found that if he 
concentrated very hard and listened to what they were telling him, he was 
able to see things. Monsters that walked like people, spirits that played with 
the living like puppets, demons that no one else seemed to notice, let alone 
try to fight against like the Voices were always telling him to do. Even using 
his special sight, her basement looked normal, except- 
“Hang on a second, I think I might have found it.” Piled against one wall 
was a ragtag tumble of antique dolls, frilly dresses turned the color of blood 
with age and dirt, glass eyes cloudy with scratches, still staring up at him. To 
his special sight, tiny luminescent strands linked them all together like 
ghostly spiderwebs. Even stranger than that, thoughl, was what was sitting in 
the corner across from them. 
A lone baby doll sat in a tiny broken wooden chair, staring impassively 
at the ceiling, a serious, almost brooding expression on its chubby pink face. 
Unlike the others, its dress was clean and perfect, the pink of its flesh 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


unmarred by dust or age; to the sight, it almost looked alive, glowing with 
inner energy that made it seem as though it were almost breathing. Seth 
crouched down next to it, wanting to touch it but knowing better than to try, 
hypnotized by a feeling of loss and anger that radiated from the doll. 
He never felt the attack coming. One moment, he was staring at the doll, 
wondering what to do next, then abruptly an icy hand slammed down on his 
shoulder, spreading a chill through his whole body. A rush of alien thoughts 
and feelings flooded through him: kill the girl she deserves it (RAGE) invited you 
home on a first date you know what that means (LUST) she’s c m p t  like all the 
others (RAGE) a dirty, dirty baby doll (LUST) you know what she deserves 
(PRIDE) she’s just a broken doll like all the others a broken doll like all the others 
a broken doll like all the others a broken doll- 
“No!” Seth shouted, not caring if Melissa heard him. The presence was 
strong, incredibly strong, its words loud and commanding in his head, but he 
squeezed his eyes shut and listened deep within until the Voices began to 
drown it out and his head was finally clear again. Opening his eyes, he saw just 
the barest outline of a man glaring angrily down at him with baleful white 
eyes, then the apparition vanished. 
“Seth? Are you OK? What happened?” Melissa’s voice was worried, 
almost panicked. 
“I’m fine,” he managed, struggling back to his feet. T h e  glow from the 
dolls had faded to nothing, and even the one in the comer had lost its sinister 
gleam; in the back of his mind, however, he could still feel the thing’s ominous 
presence nearby, waiting and watching, seething with hate and confusion 
over his escape. “I just tripped over some boxes and lost my balance.” He faked 
a laugh. “It’s a little spooky down here, that’s all.” 
“Did you find whatever made that noise?” Her voice, now relieved. 
“Oh yeah,” Seth said, glancing back at the comer, where the dolls 
continued their eerie vigil. For a split second h e  thought their eyes glowed 
white, then nothing. ‘‘I found it.” 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Credits 
Written by: Peter Woodworth 
World of Darkness created by: Mark ReinOHagen 
Developed by: Cynthia Summers, with Alyson Gaul 
Edited by: Jasmine Milberger 
Art Director: Aaron Voss 
Layout and Typesetting by: Mike Chaney 
Photographs by: Laura Robles 
Models: Israel Quilles, Erika Janssen, Nate Schumacher, Mick Braddock, 
Laura Poquette, John Stacie, Banh Keonouphet, Jay Peine, Boyd Lescher, 
Selvia W idj aj a 
Playtesters: Scott Adams, Kerry Bayles, Fletcher Bennett, Rich Brodsky, 
Russell Collins, Greg Curley, ]en Curtis, Dan DiFlavis, Jim Fillmore, Matt 
Florentine, Alyson Gaul, Lee Gelwicks, Retta Harrison, Amy Houser, Jeff 
Houser, Kelly Niedzialek, Mike Rohner, Andrew J. Scott, Nicksimpson, Meg 
Strittmatter, Tim Sullivan, Kathy Sykes, Jada Weaver, Tome Wilson, Andy 
Woodworth 
C A M E  S T U D I O  
1554 LINTTON DR 
STONE MOUNTIAN, 
GA 30083 
USA 
02002White WolfPublishing, Inc. 
All rights resewed. Reproduction without 
the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the pur- 
poses of reviews, and for blank character 
sheets, which may be reproduced for per- 
sonal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, 
Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the 
Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, Hunter 
the Reckoning, World of Darkness, and 
Aberrant are registered trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights 
reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf 
the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Laws of the 
Reckoning,LawsoftheHunt,Lawsofthe Wild, LawsoftheNight, Mind'sEyeTheatre, andLaws 
of Ascension are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, 
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge 
to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and 
Supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book 
contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800,454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN USA. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Prelude: R Doll’s House 
Chapter One: lntroductien and Setting 
Chapter T’wo: T’he Creeds 
Chapter T’hree: Character Creation 
Chapter Four:Edges 
Chapter Five: Rules, Systems and Drama 
Chapter Six: Storytelling 
Chapter Seven: Bystanders 
i 
8 
34 
82 
186 
232 
270 
3i6 
i
I
b P
I
I 1
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


What is Stcrytelling’! 
We have been telling each other stories since the earliest days, when cavemen 
acted out the tales of their hunts around their fires. We painted cave walls, pressed 
reeds into soft clay tablets, inked papyrus and vellum, performed plays, illuminated 
manuscripts, printed books, filmed movies, scripted radio and television shows, and 
programmed computers. Now, one of the newest methods of storytelling is actually a 
return to the oldest form. Live-act 
ying (LARP), which grew out of the 
table-top roleplaying games of the 
the kind of “participatory” taletelling 
that we can still recognize 
d the globe. It is the same emphasis 
on character and story that 
ths ofour most ancient cultures, and 
that led to the creation of 
er” games. The book you hold in your 
hands is an attempt to ex 
les of the Hero’s Journey. 
What Is Mind’s Eye T’heatre? 
Playing Mind’s Eye Theat 
the main characters, but the 
amovie. You and your friends portray 
our decisions. The director of this 
er; helshe, along with assistants called 
your adventure. Most scenes are pla 
in reahime, and always in character. You 
should only break character when 
dispute or a change of scene which 
requires adjudication from the Sto 
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, there are no limits to the worlds you can explore. In the 
Laws of the Reckoning, you will discover the dark and frightening world of the 
imbued, ordinary people who have been chosen by mysterious entities known as the 
Messengers to combat supernatural creatures. Tom away from their old lives and 
thrust into a conflict they barely understand, they must confront some of the most 
terrifying creatures to stalk the night armed only with their courage, determination 
and perhaps a few equally mysterious powers of their own. It is a war waged in dark 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


alleys and high-rise penthouses, lonely wilderness and quiet suburbia, fought by 
hunters from all walks of life from the gutter to the board room. Their only unifying 
factor is that they have seen the Truth, they have heard the Call, and now they must 
hold to their Mission, no matter what it costs them. Because once the Heralds have 
touched your life, blissful ignorance is gone forever - 
there is no going back. 
Characters 
When you play Laws of the Reckoning, you take on the persona of a hunter, an 
ordinary person gifted (or cursed) with the ability to see supernatural creatures all 
around her and charged with the duty of battling them in a multitude of ways. Some 
take the fight to the creatures tooth and claw, while others reach out a helping hand 
to those they feel can be saved, and still others wonder about the meaning of it 
altogether. Anyone can be chosen by the Heralds - 
the only limit on your character 
concept (besides the rules) is your imagination. You create a character, then roleplay 
her over the course of a story and perhaps a chronicle (a series of connected stories). 
You decide what your character does and says. You decide what risks to accept or to 
decline. 
During the game, you speak as your character. Unless you’re talking to aNarrator 
or Storyteller, whatever you say is what your character says. Because most of what a 
Mind’s Eye Theatre player perceives depends on the characters around him, players 
must be vivid and expressive. The characters direct the plot, but at the same time the 
events of the game guide and develop the characters, helping them to achieve the 
story’s goals. To an extent, as a player in a storytelling game, you have a responsibility 
beyond simply portraying your character. You need to consider the story as a whole and 
your role in making sure that other players enjoy the game. 
Creating a character for Laws of the Reckoning is easy and only takes a few 
moments. Only a few things are necessary to define a basic character, and once you’ve 
done that, you can play the game. There’s another phase to creating a character, 
though, one that makes playing Mind’s Eye Theatre all the more rewarding. Your 
character should be more than just a series of Traits and numbers. Rather, she should 
be a living, breathing personality with a past, motives, drives, likes, dislikes - 
everything you want to see from a character in a movie or a novel. So it’s probably a 
good idea to take time to figure out who your character is as well as what she is before 
you start playing. While certain details and personality traits will come out while 
you’re playing her, you’ll want to have the basics in place before you start playing. It’s 
just like an actor asking his director for his character’s motivation. 
Characters are the heart and soul of a story. Without them, all the patient efforts 
of the Storyteller would be for naught. Appreciate the Storyteller’s efforts by following 
the rules and taking an active part in the game. 
Narratws 
In the Laws of the Reckoning, Narrators are the people who help the Storyteller 
present adventures. Narrators are the impartial judges who describe scenes and events 
that cannot be staged, adjudicate rules, and occasionally play the roles of antagonists. 
Generally, enlisting the aid ofone Narrator for every loplayers makes for a good ratio. 
The best number ofNarrators for your game usually depends on the gaming experience 
of the players; the more experienced your players, in all probability the fewer Narrators 
they’ll need. Narrators usually play characters of their own as well as helping out in 
certain situations. That way they can be a part of the action instead of just trying to 
correct it from the outside. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
t 
I i 
111 
Storyteller 
Every gamemust haveastoryteller, whoservesas theultimateauthority and final 
judge in any game of the Laws of the Reckoning you play. The Storyteller creates the 
basic elements of the plot, and makes sure that the story unfolds well - 
in addition 
to doing everything the Narrators do. Storytelling is a demanding job, but it is also a 
very rewarding one, for it is the Storyteller who creates the framework upon which the 
players build their experiences. 
The Storyteller makes certain the story has content, interesting hooks and a 
narrative flow. This does not mean that a Storyteller should just sit back and dictate 
the plot - 
characters who don't have free will are no fun to play. Instead, a Storyteller 
creates the "framework"e1ements of the plot, then turns players loose in order see what 
happens. 
During the game the Storyteller must be watchful and ready to create new 
elements to make sure that the story works out well. He is also responsible for safety, 
ensuring that all of the players have something to do, and that everyone is abiding by 
the rules. Although performing all of these tasks simultaneously can be exhausting, the 
sense of accomplishment gained from creating a successful story makes the whole 
process worthwhile. 
In the end, the goal of Laws of the Reckoning is for everyone to have fun. 
Props 
Props can be anything that the Storyteller approves of that helps to define your 
character, including costumes, makeup and jewelry. Have fun and employ any props 
that you feel are necessary to enhance your character. However, if you have any doubts 
as to whether a prop (such as anything remotely resembling a weapon) will be allowed 
in-game, consult your Storyteller and abide by her decision. 
The basic premise ofLaws of the Reckoning is derived from the table-top 
roleplaying game Hunter: The Reckoning. It is not necessary to own or know 
Hunter in order to play Laws of the Reckoning, but the world of Hunter has 
many useful source materials which can be adapted easily for games based on 
Laws of the Reckoning. 
T'heRules vf Safety 
Behave yourself so that everyone can enjoy this game. Laws of the Reckoning 
is to be played in the home, at conventions or at other safe locations. At all times, you 
should remember that it is a game, only a game, and nothing but a game. If you feel 
yourself getting too wrapped up in what's going on, take a timeout and step back from 
gameplay for a moment. It's for your own good. 
Elegantly Simple 
This game was designed to be easy to learn and easier to play. Laws of the 
Reckoning is a storytelling game. The rules are aimed at resolving conflicts quickly so 
that players can stay with the story without ever stepping outside their characters in 
i
L !
I
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


order to figure out what happens. We have made every effort to create rules that 
maintain the integrity of the story and the background in which the story is set. 
T’he M y  Rules T’hat Matter 
Here are the rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre (MET), the only rules that absolutely 
must always be obeyed. These are common sense rules to keep everyone - 
other 
players, yourself, strangers in the area and the police-safe and happy with your game. 
These rules are designed to limit the opportunities anyone has to destroy the fun 
of your game. They’re not intended to interfere with gameplay or your enjoyment; 
they’re here to make sure that you play sensibly and safely. 
Although a superfluous reminder for the 99% of you who are well-adjusted and 
sensible enough to play by such common sense guidelines without prompting, it bears 
noting that these rules deserve particular attention in the world of heightened security 
and cautious scrutiny we live in these days. Even something as harmless as a group of 
friends playing an elaborate game of make-believe can theoretically be construed as 
something suspicious or even outright dangerous if other people don’t know what’s 
going on, and like it or not it’s a reality that cannot be ignored. 
Therefore, those new to this game are advised to read the following rules closely 
and take them to heart, while veterans ofMind’s Eye Theatre are encouraged to study 
them again and remember why they are important. 
#f- It’s Only a Game 
This is by far the most important rule. If a character is killed, if a plot falls apart, 
if a rival wins the day - 
it’s still only a game. Don’t take things too seriously, as that 
will spoil not only your fun but also the fun of everyone around you. 
Leave the game behind when it ends. Playing Laws of the Reckoning is a lot of 
fun; spending time talking about the game is great. However, calling the person who 
plays the team leader at 4:13 A.M. on Sunday to discuss an idea your character has 
about the nature of bloodsuckers is another matter entirely. Make sure to keep a little 
perspective. 
82 - No Touching 
Never actually have physical contact with other players, no matter how careful 
you are or how innocent you believe the gesture to be. This goes for so-called “social 
touches” like hugs or back rubs as much, if not more than, “combat touches” like 
punches or kicks. Accidents happen, intentions get misinterpreted and someone will 
get hurt. Rely on the rules to cover physical logistics. 
W3-NoStunts 
Never climb, jump, run, leap or swing from anything during a game. Keep the 
“action” in your action low-key. If you can imagine you’re an auto mechanic with the 
power to wallop zombies with a flaming socket wrench, you can imagine that you’re 
diving across a table as well. Avoid attracting the attention of people who aren’t 
playing, and use your imagination to its fullest. 
64 - No Weapons 
Fake or real weapons of any sort are absolutely forbidden. Even obviously silly toy 
weapons are not allowed. Such props give other people the wrong impression as to 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


,D- 
what you are doing, and in the dark they could conceivably be mistaken for the real 
thing. Use item cards to represent weapons instead, no matter how cool you think it 
would be to stash a cap gun in your trenchcoat for the sake of “realism.” This country 
recently lost the last of what tolerance it ever had regarding people carrying fake guns, 
phony bombs or any other such toys, and those who flout this attitude do so at their 
own peril. 
#5 -We Drugs or Drinking 
This one is a real no-brainer. Drugs and alcohol do not create peak performance. 
They reduce your ability to think and react, meaning that, among other things, your 
roleplaying ability will be impaired. Players impaired by drugs or alcohol are a danger 
to other players, and to the game as a whole. There’s nothing wrong with playing a 
character who’s drunk or stoned, but actually bringing such stuff to a game is in bad 
taste at best and illegal at worst. Don’t do it. 
#6 - Be Mindful of Others 
Remember, not everyone you see, or who sees you, is playing the game. A game 
can be unnerving or even frightening to passers-by. Be considerate of nonplayers in 
your vicinity, and make sure that if you are in a public area, your gameplay actions or 
conversations are not going to alarm anyone. This is especially important following 
the tragic events of September 1 lth, even if you’ve always been careful about such 
matters in the past. Trying to explain that youdidn’t really kill your friend, your hunter 
just chopped off his head “in-game”, to a policeman at 3 A.M. is often an exercise in 
futility. Likewise, hotel security isn’t going to ask if you were discussing building bombs 
for purely “in-character” reasons before they call the police - 
and chances are the 
officers who respond to the call won’t see the humor in it either. 
This rule is especially important in Laws of the Reckoning games, where on an 
average night a normal-looking group of players may discuss in great detail things like 
monsters, cults, conspiracies, supernatural powers and other things that can unnerve 
ordinary people who don’t realize a game is being played. Throw in the fact that your 
players might also be overheard planning all manner of violent acts or describing 
gruesome things they’ve “seen” and you have the potential for real trouble. While you 
should enjoy this game and the fun and challenges it presents, never forget that no 
group plays in a vaccuum: what you look like or more importantly what you act like 
while playing can have serious repercussions on others around you. 
This rule also applies to particularly shocking or horrifying costuming. Overly 
revealing or otherwise inappropriate attire might get you bounced from a play area on 
a variety of minor charges (not to mention instantly give any onlookers the wrong 
impression about what you’re doing), while wandering about in tattered, blood-soaked 
rags is another great way to summon a number of those aforementioned disgruntled 
police officers for a tense late-night chat. Costuming is meant to enhance play, not 
bring it to a screeching halt due to attracting unwanted outside attention, so take care 
to attire your characters accordingly. 
In short, if you plan on playing in a public or even semi-public area, do your best 
let the authorities as well as the owners of the establishment know who you are and 
what you’re doing whenever possible, and make sure that players remember to respect 
the nonplayers in the area and to summon a Storyteller immediately if any problems 
or questions arise with people who don’t know that a game is going on. Not only will 
doing so avoid potentially difficult and embarrassing confrontations about a supposed 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


“Satanic cult” wandering the neighborhood, but it also helps dispel myths about this 
hobby and improve relations between gaming groups and the communities that 
support them. 
#I - T’he Rules are Flexible 
In addition to the standard set of basic rules, Laws of the Reckoning includes a 
number of optional rules; these are intended to facilitate more evocative gameplay, cut 
down on the need for differing “house rules” between games and otherwise help 
customize the complicated world of magic for individual troupes. However, as always, 
feel free to ignore or adjust any of the rules in this book if it will make your game better. 
We at White Wolf call this “The Golden Rule.” If some rule included in this book 
(beyond the ones listed here, optional or otherwise) doesn’t work for your troupe, 
change it. Just be consistent and fair. Nobody likes rules that change every weekor “no- 
win” scenarios. If your troupe finds new ways to handle, say, the imbuing or the 
Messengers, that work better for you than the ones in this book, go for it. The idea is 
to have fun. 
tt8 - Have 
eve superiority ove 
are born, grow up, work and die every day. Cities bustle with traffic as the wilderness 
teems with life. The same movies are showing in the theaters, the same magazines hit 
the coffee tables, and the same shows stare blankly outward from the television screen. 
Just beneath this veneer, however, lurk things dark and terrible, an atmosphere of fear, 
despair and violence that’s far more pervasive than our own world. This isn’t just our 
world with white facepaint and black clothing - 
this is our world through the darkest 
looking glass of the soul. Monsters aren’t just things from dimly remembered child- 
hoods and the occasional lurid B-movie, but all too real, waiting in the shadows for 
fresh prey. 
Gothic-Punk is the term used to describe the attitude of the World of Darkness. 
The “Gothic” aspect is that of the sinister, looming shadow that permeates life. 
Buildings here aren’t just offices and residences but sinister, gargoyle-encrusted 
edifices that tower indifferently above the frantic, short-lived masses. Many lose 
themselves In despair and callousness, deadened to the world by the pain of life, and 
any belief that offers some hope or promise of power attracts throngs of followers. 
Social divisions are nearly insurmountable - 
the rich live in fantastic decadence and 
indulge every manner of debauched whim, while the poor work themselves to death 
and scrabble to find enough food to eat. All manner of enigmas dwell in this world, but 
they are lore of the most forbidding sort, the kinds of things best left alone for sanity’s 
sake. 
The other half of this distorted vision is “Punk” - 
what many citizens of the 
World of Darkness have adopted in order to give their lives meaning. Rebellion is 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


commonplace on different levels of society, but many people pit themselves against 
the system for so long that they lose rrack of what it was that inspired them to action 
in the first place. Crime IS endemic and violent, and everyone learns to look the other 
way if they know what’s good for them. Language is rougher, styles are more shocking, 
art descends to any depth to get its point across, and technology advances to provide 
it all without needing to leave the comfort of one’s home. 
This is the world that hunters call home. 
I 
laws of the Reckoning vs. laws ef the Hunt 
White Wolf now has two live-action games about humans who hunt 
supernatural creatures, and it’s important to point out some distinctions 
between them in order to avoid confusion. Laws of the Hunt is about mortals 
who wage their war against the supernatural for personal reasons or on behalf 
of existing organizations such as the Inquisition or the FBI’s Special Affairs 
Division. Some of them are ordinary humans, similar in some ways to the 
imbued in this book (at least before the Call); others are magicians, psychics, 
supernatural kin or similarly strange beings, possibly even ones that hunters 
might consider targets. By contrast, the imbued ofLaws of the Reckoning are 
humans with absolutely no supernatural lineage or training of any kind, who 
have been chosen by the Heralds to fight supernatural creatures apparently 
according to some mysterious plan. They have powers as well, called edges, but 
remain ordinary folks in every other way, and do not register as supernatural 
beings no matter how powerful they become. Ultimately the dividing line is 
that the Heralds have chosen the imbued, for whatever reason that might be; 
all other groups, no matter how dedicated, do not have the sanction or support 
of these enigmatic entities in any way, nor will they ever acquire it. 
That said, it is perhaps not inconceivable for groups from the two games to 
possibly meet or even work together, but do so with great care - 
the two books 
were designed to evoke different moods and atmospheres, and too much of one 
can very easily ruin the special elements of the other. A lot of Reckoning’s fear 
and mystery is lost if the newly imbued character is immediately swept up by the 
local Inquisition and trained in a dozen killing arts and a wealth of vampire lore, 
for example. On other hand, the “normal” hunters from Laws of the Hunt may 
feel left out when imbued colleagues write in the hunter code or talk about the 
Heralds and use the second sight. This book is specifically designed, written and 
dedicated to portraying thoroughly ordinary people who are chosen by mysterious 
beings and abruptly dropped into a life-and-death struggle with monsters and 
forces from their worst nightmares. While the other book can certainly have 
elements of that as well, on a whole it wasn’t designed for quite that much of a 
narrow thematic focus, and thus Storytellers are advised to consider great caution 
before combining the two in any way. 
Those still interested in crossing the two games should consult the tabletop 
book Hunter: First Contact. Not only does it contain a wealth of material on the 
developing relations between the imbued and various established agencies, but 
it also covers extensively how to run games where the imbued and “regular” 
hunters cooperate, cross paths or even collide with each other. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


--- 
Lexicon 
talking or hearing about them. Hunters who work in 
access are not likely to learn these, instead creating their 
unter groups in other parts of the world or even across the 
ir own variations on these words. 
natural above all else. 
ter who provokes confrontation with monsters by using himself as a 
: Mankind, especially those who would rather maintain the status quo 
(however terrible) than risk change for something better. 
bystander: A person who witnesses the supernatural as per an imbuing, but does 
not act against it for whatever reason. These people may remember seeing monsters, 
but they nevet gain the edges of hunters. 
entary hunter groups with their own philosophies and methods of 
eeds are Avenger, Defender, Hermit, Innoce 
chosen, the: A term some hunters call themselves in reference to the imbuing and 
the Heralds. 
Defender: A hunter who strives to protect certa 
much as he hunts monsters. 
defenseless, the: Normal, unimbued humans who have no idea that monsters 
exist in the world. A more derogatory term is the blind. 
edge: Any of the strange, mysterious powers granted to a hunter upon her 
imbuing. 
gawker: A normal human who witnesses hunter or monste 
supernatural powers or edges), but cannot comprehend them as 
gone fishing: A term for hunters who leave the city in an attempt to find peace 
in the countryside. 
Heralds: The name given to the mysterious forces which supposedly empower 
normal humans to see the Supernatural and grant them strange powers. The Heralds 
are considered to be agents of a greater power, usually God. 
Hermit: A hunter who works in isolation, apparently suffering great pain from 
the presence of monsters or other imbued. 
eventual confronti 
r some, it may be the only 
t monsters stalk the world. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 I I 
I 
i I 
I 
i
I
ts the Internet and researches the supernatural but 
and avoids direct involvement in the mission. 
ut most believe them to be a force of good (or at least not 
on humanity, Subcategories include bloodsuckers, rots, skinchangers, ghosts, vam- 
pires, wereolves, zombies, witches, goblins, poltergeists, etc. 
Most Dangerous Game (MDG): The hunt; also the monsters being hunted, as 
they are far more capable of fighting back with their own weapons. 
puppet: A human pawn of the supematur 
illing or unwilling. Als;?_called 
trm tor. 
pylon: A normal human who witnesses mon 
or supernatural powers are used. Also used for humans pre 
do not recognize anything monstrous. Considered to be a 
Redeemer: A type of hunter who seeks ou-ykonsters 
than destroying them on sight. 
second sight: Also called the sight, 
disguise or hide themselves in plain sight 
soulless, the: Humans who revere the su 
“questionable behavbr” (which is usually entirely up to the speaker’s ideas). Neo- 
ng members, Goths and club-goers are usually considered 
hunters apply the term to each other. 
touched: To be influenced or affected by the Messengers. 
x 
1
who develops a philosophy regarding the hunt and has few 
the M e n g e r s ,  monsters or the purpose of the hunt. 
wacka: A hunter who pursues her mission to extremes, such as accepting human 
losses, making tremendous sacrifices, or claiming very strange motives. 
Wayward: A hunter who is wacko, whose only mission is destruction of the 
supernatural and those who abet it, including other hunters he perceives to be “soft.” 
Word, the: Hunters’ language of signs and icons that are used to communicate 
simple messages. 
yokel: A hunter who believes in supernatural folklore and legends regarding 
monsters, but who has not tested their validity. 
Y 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


4 Cry In t Ire Dark 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: witness1 
Re: introductions 
Subject: 
Tolhunter 
Copied To’ 1- 
From 
iuctions 
-.list@hunter-net.org I 
95 
I 
I I 
what’s happened to me? how did i know how to find 
t h i s  list? where did all this come from? someone 
tell me i‘m not g o i n g  insane. 
Don’t be afraid. The whole point of these lists is that you’re not as alone as you 
probably feel you are right now. There are others who have gone through what you 
have - 
OK, maybe not exactly what you have, but close enough that they know what 
it’s like and they know how to help. It’s not easy getting used to what you’ve been 
handed, but if you don’t it’ll only get worse as time goes on, not better, so it’s a good 
thing you had the courage and the sense to send us all a message. We’re here for you, 
however we can help; to that end, I’ve compiled this file of topics and messages I think 
will help you sort out some of the questions you have. If you have more, just drop me 
or anyone else here a message, anytime; that’s what we’re here for. 
After all, if we don’t look out for each other, who will? 
life Before the Call 
If you were anything like the rest of us, and I bet you were, life was an ordinary 
affair in every possible way in the days before you heard the Call. You had bills to pay, 
a regular job to go to and hobbies that kept you going when the first two seemed too 
much to bear. Maybe you were single and passed your time with a group of friends, still 
on the lookout for the one who’d fit everything into place, or perhaps you had a spouse 
and even kids that you cared for, trading some freedom for a kind of love that just 
doesn’t happen any other way. Things were tense sometimes, and easy some others, 
and generally so busy you sometimes worried that your life will be over just about the 
time you started really understanding what it was all about. You might have had some 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


real disasters or tragedies that helped shape what you were, or maybe you were one of 
the lucky ones who managed to have fairly smooth sailing, but either way you’d 
probably figured you’d seen just about everything life was going to send your way, 
barring some miracle. 
Of course, there are a few of us who noticed something was wrong with the world 
we were given. While I’ve yet to meet many of us that could say for certain that they 
encountered some kind of obvious supernatural phenomena before the Call, there 
were quite afew ofus who believed in things beyond what we could see, hear and touch. 
Some were neopagans or New Ager types, open to a world they couldn’t really describe 
and looking for solutions from sources outside the mainstream, while others were 
members of more traditional faiths w 
d comfort in the thought of guardian 
angels and the power of prayer. While 
did not claim to have all the answers, 
The Imbuing 
that can’t be explained an 
ut the supernatural. F 
d acknowledges the tru 
ugh, there’s always the 
can be trusted just like any other part 
Another constant in the voice of 
ds, which always comes as message of 
DEAD RISE AGAIN .” 
LIVE” or “BEAST”, for 
t cryptic but emphatic messages 
such as “IT FEEDS ON 
RS THE LIGHT OF TRUTH.” 
Some of us even keep on hearing v 
ing messages like this even after our 
communication from the Heralds that you’re left with, but believe me when I say that’s 
one message that will stick with you for the rest of your life. 
With all of these new realizations, though, also comes an mperutiue - 
to act! No 
matter what the situation might be or how bold (or timid) you were before, you know 
that you must react in some way to what you’re seeing. I’ve only heard of a few who 
didn’t, who froze up when the Heralds called on them or even actively slunk away from 
what thev saw, and from what others sav that moment of hesitation haunts them 
forever afterward. Of course, as I’ve learned this command seems to mean different 
things in different situations. Some of us find themselves facing down raging monsters 
from a child’s worst nightmares, fighting back with whatever they have at hand, while 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


others deal with more subtle threats or even find themselves approached by creatures 
seemingly seeking nothing more than a simple friendly exchange. Naturally, person- 
ality weighs in on how we deal with these situations too: I’ve met some of our kind who 
would probably try to talk down a raging monster rather than fight it, or more 
judgmental types who would cut off the hand of any creature that reached out to them 
for any reason. Whether or not the Messengers intended us to react in so many ways, 
or whether the light of their purpose was refracted in the prism of human behavior 
remains a question I don’t think any of us are ready to try to answer yet. 
T’he Heralds 
So who or what are these Heralds I keep mentioning? Unfortunately, nobody 
really knows, though theories abound: they’re aliens, trying to help us save our world 
from itself; they’re powerful beings recruiting us to return wayward spirits to Hell or 
some other outer plane; they’re an impulse from the universal unconscious or human 
overmind; they’re time travelers from a past or future civilization, trying to prevent 
some great catastrophe from occurring. For the truly cynical, there’s even the idea that 
they’re another type of monster we just haven’t met yet, using us as catspaws against 
their enemies in furtherance of some inscrutable scheme. If you like, after you read the 
rest of this thread you’re welcome to look through some ofour past posts on the subject. 
Or you can talk to some of the other imbued who claim to be in contact with the 
Heralds on a more regular basis; most swear that the Messengers return to them to 
impart information and warnings about impending conflicts, unanswered questions 
and other useful topics. Again, there’s considerable debate over why some are chosen 
for this extra level of contact, when others receive only their original message and not 
one word more. 
What everyone does seem to agree about is that they are unquestionably linked 
to our sudden ability to perceive monsters, as well as the strange powers we find 
ourselves equipped with not too long after. It’s just too much of a coincidence that we 
would all be contacted by them otherwise. But as to why they choose us, no one can 
say forcertain. Rightnowallwecando is hope for the bestabout theirultimatemotive, 
and see if we can get a better picture of their goals and their identity as time goes on. 
The Imbued 
As unbelievable as it sounds at first, we now find ourselves in the position of being 
forced to acknowledge that we are all part of a group of people who have seen the truth 
of the world, that monsters are real and do indeed stalk human prey, and what’s more 
that as a whole we feel compelled to do something about it as well. To paraphrase what 
the wise man said, like it or not we’re through the looking glass now - 
it’s not a 
question of whether we will act on this new perspective, but how. I only hope that we 
make the right choices, hard as they may be to see sometimes. 
Diversity 
So you’re probably wondering, do we share any other common denominators: 
age, sex, race, creed, ethnic background? Well, while there’s been no official census 
of our kind (and I wouldn’t hold my breath for one any time soon), I think it’s pretty 
safe to say that about the only thing that we all had in common before the imbuing was 
the fact of our ordinary lives. Other than that, I’ve heard fromor seen signs of just about 
every type of individual imaginable, from all around the world. This gives me hope - 
it’s not a question of race or nationality, but of what you’re willing to do to carry on 
!
i
1
I 
!
I 
I
\ 
I
1 
I 
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


the hunt. Some would say it's sad that it could only take a threat like monsters to unify 
so many different people, but at least that means it can be done. 
Of course, with so many different types of people involved in the hunt, you're 
bound to run into differences of opinion and operation along the way. Reconciling all 
these perspectives is rapidly becoming the next hardest part to battling the monsters 
themselves, but it's an effort that must be made if we're going to become any kind of 
force for change in the world. 
Well, enough of just my thoughts for now - 
since I just explained how different 
opinions weigh in, let me show you what some of the other members of this list have 
had to contribute on these subjects in the past. I hope you find their beliefs as 
interesting and helpful as I did originally. 
Teamwork 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: soyboy134 
Re: playing nice with others 
Subject: 1 playing nice with others 
1 
TO hunter.list8hunter-net.org I 
so what's this i hear about us organizing, anyway? one of the 
guys in my group insists that this is the Apocalypse and that 
we'd better prepare for all-out war with the beasts, while one 
woman holds that we should spare the monsters that aren't all 
bad in order to gain allies against those that can't be saved. 
another one has some crackpot idea about the monsters being 
"negative vibrations" in the human spirit, and keeps trying to 
convince the others to do guided meditation to increase the 
area's "positivewavelengths" or something like that. i think 
they're all missing the point, but i don't know what to else i 
can do - has anyone else out there had better luck? 
I'm afraid there are no easy answers for you on that one, mate. I thought that my 
group had some rough edges when we started out, but next to yours it sounds like we're 
an all-star footie team. Hard luck, mate, hard luck. But all's not lost yet, at least not 
if you're willing to put up with some guff from them and sit down for a hard talk. Go 
into it the right way and I think you'll find that you can take some of those differences 
and wrestle strengths out of them instead. It's just a matter of arranging where 
everybody's strongest so that they complement each other instead of running at cross- 
purposes all the time. 
For example, take that chap who's always going on about how much he wants to 
arm the world, blow up monsters with grenades and otherwise get all Rambo on you. 
Sure, he's bound to turn out a nutter if you just let him stew in the back, but if you give 
him a job he can put his hands on like protecting your mutual meeting place or taking 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


point when you head out into the field, you’ve suddenly got a very active and useful 
team member instead of somebody you’re not sure you want behind you in a dark alley. 
Don’t kid yourself - 
we’re in a dangerous business no matter how you want to look 
at it, so it’s just good sense to make sure you’ve got at least a couple of people who’re 
good in a tight spot. Maybe you can even pick up some basic weapons and self-defense 
training off ‘em, if they’re the teaching type - 
once again, it may not be your thing, 
but it’s not a bad thing to know even if you never plan on using it. I know I didn’t, but 
I’ve found out differently since then. 
Don’t get me wrong, either, there’s lots of room on this mission for others who 
aren’t so keen on weaponry. That woman you said wants to talk to the monsters, maybe 
see if some of them are alright? So long as she doesn’t have rocks in her head or an 
overly trusting streak, you’ve now got yourself a natural negotiator if you see acreature 
that doesn’t look like it deserves immediate destruction. If that puts a bee in Mr. Rifle’s 
bonnet, then tell him he can act as a bodyguard, backup sniper or what have you. They 
might even enjoy working together on plans for taking out those creatures she doesn’t 
think are worth saving, while he might come around to how she picks truly deserving 
targets for him instead of just whatever happens along. As for your “positive- 
wavelength channeler, well.. . Damned if I know if there’s anything to the theory, but 
it sounds just about strange enough to be right to me. Even if you think he’s just a crazy 
git, though, he can still be a right helpful one if you turn him loose on the local library 
or web browser looking for more information about the creatures and anything else 
that might tie into his particular theory - 
just be careful he doesn’t start leaving out 
anything that seems to contradict what he expects, and he’s bound to turn up all sorts 
of information for you to use. 
Of course, I’m not saying you have to elect yourself king to get all of this done, 
and trust me the quickest way to be rid of your mates is to start tossing orders their way 
without asking nicely first. As much as you might want todo that sometimes, stargazer, 
don’t - 
if nobody else comes along, you’re stuck in a jam the first time the monsters 
show up in numbers that are more than you can handle (and chances are that’s not 
many). Just sit everyone down and explain it to them as sensibly as possible, and if 
they’re good folks they’ll see what you’re getting at and pull together. Don’t worry 
about it - 
you’d be surprised how many of us still are, even given what we’ve been 
through. Deep down they know the score, and that usually wins out over even the most 
pigheaded ones out there. 
Hunter Code 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: witness1 
Re: archived message 
In response to a wave of new posts regarding the origin and meaning of the hunter 
code, I’m reposting this archived message from scholar13 to cut down on the number 
of repetitive posts on the lists. Please, everyone, remember we do have archives -you 
can access them any time by clicking here. Thank you. 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: scholar13 
Re: hunter code symbols 
Like many others on these lists, early on in my new life I became familiar with a 
number of strange symbols that are routinely spotted around areas of imbued activity, 
and which hunters seem to be able to use to express a number of simple concepts and 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
I 
t 
I 
ideas to their fellow imbued across all boundaries of language, education or even 
literacy. It appears to be no less than a universal written language of some kind, albeit 
a very simple one, yet at the same time there remains the curious problem that we 
imbued are the only ones who are able to decipher it, or generally even recognize it as 
anything other than ordinary graffiti. Normal people pay it no attention whatsoever, 
and if forced to comment on the symbols say nothing other than they find them 
vaguely disturbing or comforting, depending on the nature of the symbol itself. 
I have also heard tales-perhaps 
apocryphal, perhaps not- 
about even the most 
cunning or enlightened monsters being unable to unravel the slightest bit of meaning 
even from a symbol emblazoned on their house or car, while two imbued with no 
common language or experience can communicate in basic concepts using only these 
symbols. To date, to my knowledge it remains a weapon only we can command. None 
of us will argue with such a powerful tool, to be sure, but at the same time those of us 
who can't leave well enough alone can't help but wonder where it might have come 
from.. . and what will happen if our advantage one day loses its exclusivity. 
Hunter-Wet 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: cabbie22 
Re: Fwd: hunter-net 
Subject: I Fwd: hunter-net 
Tc' hunter.list@hunter-net.org 1 
From 1 compugoth62 
Coped Tc' -
1
 
so where did the hunter-net come from, exactly? And how can we 
be sure that it hasn't been compromised by the enemy? 
i
b a 
I 
1I
1
I I
Witness, you want to field this one? 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: witness1 
Re: Fwd: hunter-net 
I first started these lists over three years ago, when I was imbued myself. I'm not 
an action type like some of the others out there are, and I felt there needed to be a 
resource for those of us - 
hoping desperately at the time that there were others like 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Y 
t 
help 
h a ~ t e
i i 
talker sight: 
shark 
corruption 
danger 
heralds protec
blood 
sucker 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


it 
arewe31 defense healerrs d 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


me - 
to keep in touch, share what we know and hopefully help keep the imbued from 
making the same mistakes over and over again. in that time, it’s grown from one list 
with a handful of addresses to nearly a dozen major lists and countless offshoots and 
local branches. Some are still general information exchanges (like this one), while 
others are more geared for those with a similar philosophy or objective in mind. Most 
are open to anyone who wants to join, although a few of the more paranoid ones have 
started screening applicants; while I don’t necessarily disagree with the idea, I don’t 
think it does much to stop monsters or other undesirables anyway, so at best you’ve 
denied a few legitimately interested folks while still letting the bad guys in. But that’s 
just my opinion. 
And yes, since I can tell you probably did a little bit of a double-take when I 
mentioned it, there have been monsters on these lists before, though it wasn’t perhaps 
as bad a thing as you might think. Despite rumors to the contrary, there is no evidence 
that the lists have ever been crashed or even significantly compromised by monsters; 
those few that have found their way on here (like Carpenter) seem to have done so 
almost because they were allowed to. Some say it’s the Heralds protecting us online; 
others claim it’s our natural anonymity combined with the sheer vastness of the Net. 
However, even if there’s been no evidence of widespread infiltration or system 
sabotage in the past, that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t consider the possibility that these 
lists might be compromised at any time. While I’m far from paranoid, I do agree it 
makes acertain amount ofsense to not throw the creatures out there any bones, either. 
Why do you suppose the disclaimer on the site entrance says to never reveal 
information that be used, however remotely, to track down your name and address, or 
the name and address of a fellow hunter? I pull such posts as fast as possible, and repeat 
offenders are banned as best the list managers know how, but I know of a few incidents 
where the information a hunter gave away was used to kill either him or his teammates. 
I myself had a close call once, just because I had slowly let slip a number of different 
clues over a period of months, and someone else was able to piece together enough of 
an idea about my location and identity to track me down. As a survivor of such an 
incident, let me simply say you’re better off avoiding things like that. 
So why continue with the lists, even if we know that those without our best 
interests in mind might well be reading every word we write? Because more often than 
not, they do real good for other imbued, from providing life-saving tips about how to 
do in certain kinds of rots to how to squeeze the most from your budget for hunting 
supplies without hurting your home life to just simple sympathy and support for those 
who feel they can’t go on any longer. Just remember that none of this information is 
guaranteed, no matter who’s posting it, not to mention taking the right precautions 
as you use the lists, and you should be OK. 
Edges 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: sexton77 
Re: Gifts from the Lord 
It has come to my attention that there have been some on this list who question 
the origin or reliability of the various powers, or “edges” as I believe they’ve come to 
be called, that we receive upon being imbued by the Messengers. While my faith in my 
Savior and the sword he has given me has kept me from suffering some of the same 
doubts as others evidently have, I felt it only my duty to share what I have learned from 
conversations with other imbued about our various edges. Perhaps they will put some 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


of the uncertain more at ease with their new lives and their identities, that they may 
better serve the Lord because of it. 
First of all, we must as a whole admit that we are now capable of things beyond 
the potential ofour fellow humans, ifwe are to become comfortable enough to develop 
them to the fullest. Note that I say our fellow humans, for while we have certainly been 
blessed we are clearly still different from the godless monsters we know as our enemies 
- 
after all, we appear entirely normal to our very own second sight, which discerns 
even the slightest taint of the supernatural around us. What more proof could we 
desire? So to those who claim that we have merely been lowered to the level of our 
enemies, or that the Heralds are only loaning us the weapons of the monsters to use 
against them, I say to you: Behold the evidence of your own senses, and be silent! 
Second, we must realize that the Lord has granted each of us different talents, 
assigning them as best suits our own souls and the role he has ordained for us in this 
crusade. Some wield the flaming swords of the archangels, while others have the 
healing touch of the saints, and still more are visited by the visions and passions of the 
prophets. And these are but the simple gifts given to those who bear the Cross - 
I have 
heard rumors of those who could unleash holy fire upon those abominations deserving 
judgment, or even blessed imbued that could purge a creature of all taint forever. I will 
not trouble you with the list I have been compiling of the various blessings the Lord 
has bestowed on our kind, though I will be happy to share it with any who ask; suffice 
it to say that though the enemy we face is mighty in its aspect, so too has the Lord armed 
His soldiers with the means to triumph over any obstacle. 
Lastly, to those who are concerned about the permanency of our gifts, I say this: 
So long as the imbued who called upon was resolute in her determination, I have never 
once seen the Lord’s blessing fail to materialize. Sadly, it was not always enough to turn 
aside the tide of darkness, but the edge itself never failed so long as the faith in it held 
fast. And as for the compassionate ones who think ahead to a time after the war is over 
and the evil is banished forever, and who worry about whether we will simply use our 
power to replace the monsters as the new tyrants, I praise them for their concern. But 
they need not worry, for when the war is over the Lord shall surely relieve us of our 
burden, and that includes such weapons as were meant to use against the wicked alone. 
Monsters 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: witness1 
Re: The enemy of my enemy 
Guys, I received this from Advocate133 yesterday, and I think it contains some 
material that we’d all be better off taking a look at. It appears to be a scanned 
document, so I’ve passed it on in the same format. My apologies if the handwriting’s 
a little hard to make out. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
1 
I 
I 
)r 
1 i 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: sailor197 
Re: eight ways from nasty 
Just by way of making sure we’re all on the same page, let me put forward a list of 
what everyone’s to be talking about when they mention “the enemy”. I’ve put them 
in a rough order of priority, based on how often we seem to end up fighting them (or 
they come after us). Let me know if I’m missing anyone important: 
Rots - 
Also known as the walking dead. I’ve seen plenty in my career already, 
and putting that up against what everyone else has written I’d say that’s our big theme. 
So far I’ve been able to pick out three varieties: hidden, walkers and shamblers. They 
go all the way down the scale from dead but nearly normal otherwise (hidden) to 
mindless killing machines (shamblers), although all of them have the same hideous 
strength and stamina. A few even develop some forms of mind tricks, though they’re 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I 
I I I 
I I 
I 
-thankfully - 
the minority. All but the shamblers seem to have some purpose that 
pulls them out of the grbund, though some don’t stop even after they’ve accomplished 
what you think they’re supposed to do, and have to be coaxed more forcefully to bed, 
as it were. 
Ghosts -Get 
all the Poltergeist jokes out of your system now, and don’t let me 
hear them either, because I don’t laugh at that kind of stuff anymore. In practice, spirits 
to break down kind of the same way that rots do (I have a theory about that, but I’ll 
save it for another time): the deceivers, the driven and the drones. Deceivers can’t do 
quite the same things that hidden rots do - 
kind of hard to pretend you still have a 
day job when you don’t have a body anymore - 
but they tend to live strange “lives” 
of their own, and get deeply upset whenever you do anything that upsets their careful 
routine. Driven are spirits that seem to have one particular purpose, like causing other 
people to get angry or protecting a place, sacrificing a bit of intelligence for a lot of 
determination in the process. Last are drones, who don’t tend to notice anyone at all 
unless you land in their path, in which case they move you out as curtly as possible 
before resuming rattling their chains or whatever. 
Vampires - 
From the suave Interview kind to hissing things little better than 
physically powerful opponents you’ll ever meet - 
their human shapes are big and 
muscular, and their unnatural forms are, well, unnatural. Do not, repeat not, attempt 
to attack them without heavy weaponry and preferably a dozen backup team members 
as well. If you do kill one, remember that most of them have lots of big hairy friends 
with short tempers, and plan your next few months accordingly. One last word of 
caution: Shapechangers have a disturbing habit of appearing from thin air, slaughter- 
ing everyone in their path and then disappearing again; never assume that any kind 
of perimeter or stronghold is secure when they’re involved. 
Warlocks -On the surface, they seem to be the most like us; on many, you can 
barely detect anything wrong, but it’s still there, no matter how slight. And when you 
see one cut loose, you know why: Although I’ve never personally seen one, I’ve heard 
that their spells can do just about anything you can imagine, from subtle stuff like 
reading minds or nudging a die roll to levitating cars and spitting flame at those who 
piss them off. Combined with their easy-to-miss looks, that’s what makes them most 
dangerous to us. If you suspect you’re hunting one, watch your step and try to hit them 
from complete surprise if possible, so they don’t have time to work up some nasty spell 
for you. 
Goblins - 
I put these things on the list even though no one has ever been able 
to even remotely explain to me what the hell they are. All I know is that without the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


sight, they look normal (don’t they all), but once you turn it on you see these nasty, 
twisted creatures superimposed on top of the human host, like creatures out of some 
nightmare of what the boogeyman must be like. They don’t seem to respond to stuff 
that exorcises other spirits, though, and I’ve been told that they can do all sorts of nasty 
tricks on top of it, so as for me I’m going to stay the hell clear until someone can give 
me a better idea of what I’m hitting and where it’ll hurt the most. 
Other - 
All right, so it’s not a real category, but there’s lots of stuff out there I’m 
sure we don’t know about yet, just waiting it’s turn to take a whack at us. Since I’m not 
willing to fill this category with rumor, though, just what has been reasonably 
substantiated to my satisfaction, for now it’s empty. How long it’ll stay that way?Your 
guess is as good as mine. 
The World 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: punker81 
Re: get a clue 
To I hunter. list@hunter-net . o ~  
~ m m .  I philosopher42 
Copied To 7 
Hasn’tanyone ever thought of just going tothe authorities 
before? I mean, on a NATIONAL scale? You can’t possibly believe 
that the monsters have control over every major institution in 
this country, can you? I’m as suspicious of the military- 
industrial complex as the next person, but even if you factor 
the enemyintotheworks I just c a n ’ t s e r i o u s l y e n t e r t a i n t h e  
notion that they would be able to keep a lid on absolutely 
every story if we all decided to go public or a national or 
even a global scale. C‘mon, people! Think! 
Philosopher, you’ve got some problems if you can’t see the holes that run right 
through all the happy make-believe parts of your argument. Just because monsters 
might not be involved in every single aspect of mundane life doesn’t mean those 
agencies are going to run up and give you a high-five for sticking your neck out like 
that. Creatures or no creatures, any society’s business is preserving at least the status 
quo, or preferably the status quo ante, and any threat to that kind of mentality is going 
to be smacked down in short order by the most efficient means available. 
Still don’t believe me? Here’s a quick civics lesson for you - 
just bear in mind 
that I’m talking about the possibility of what these institutions will do to you without 
any help from monsters at all, just for messing with them. Add some monsters to the 
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


mix, ones who are really hell-bent on getting at you, and you have the stuff dystopian 
fantasies are made of. 
Government 
From the White House right on down the party that watches your house, 
government is a football for special interests of all kinds, none of whom have the 
slightest interest in letting you start some kind of civil war by going around telling 
people monsters are running around controlling their lives and snacking on the 
unwary. Rocking the boat is the greatest threat to a system that’s based on red tape, 
procedure and patronage jobs, and if there’s a better description of government than 
that, I haven’t heard it. Point being, not only does government not want people like 
us going around telling other people like it is, it has thousands of ways to make your life 
a living hell if you try - 
if you thought taxes were high or utility service was lousy 
before, wait ‘til you pick a fight with City Hall. Lost birth certificates? Deleted driver’s 
licenses? Disconnected telephone service? Dead on paper, even though you’re still 
alive and well? All that and more is just a few phone calls away for those in power, 
should you give them cause to lift the receiver. Death by a thousand paper cuts is still 
death, after all, and bureaucracy sure has enough ways to make you miserable without 
ever really taking any overt action at all. 
Business 
Grant an organization most of the powers of a government (or all of them, in the 
right Third World nations) with half the restrictions and a much more efficient 
operating system, and you have yourself a modern multinational corporation. While 
individual employees or even some management types may have a conscience, in the 
end if any large business is confronted by a choice between turning a larger profit or 
making the right ethical choice, you can kiss your sweet Kant goodbye. Unless you 
have a plan to make some huge money off the proving existence of monsters and 
hunting them down, business isn’t interested, no matter how eloquent your proposal 
might be. Now, businesses don’t usually have the power to make your miserable as 
directly as governments do, unless they’re in a position to dictate a lot of local policy 
(such as a factory the entire town depends on), but they hate it just as much when 
people rock the boat or blow the whistle, and they’ll hit you with all the trouble money 
can buy. Maybe your house just happens to be the perfect location for their next outlet 
store, or their lawyers show up with a summons for libel after you express your public 
dissatisfaction with them. And if you or anyone you know works for them at any level 
(not too hard with today’s multinationals), man, they’ve already won, you just don’t 
know it yet. It’s easy to say that the cause is more important than a single job, but if 
that job belongs to your sister and it’s her only means of supporting her kids, what are 
you really going to do? 
Police 
Repeat after me: lamacriminal. Icommitcriminalacts. Thepolicearenotmyfiends. 
Once that sinks in, you’ll know why we stop having any real friends on the local police 
force the moment the imbuing hits. Even if you don’t commit crimes, it’s all too easy 
to make it look like you have, especially ifthe local constabulary is losing patience with 
your crazy theories or odd late night habits. Maybe those were bogus charges you got 
rousted on, but that still means you’re spending at least a night in jail before it gets 
sorted out, and the police can be very efficient at losing records and covering for each 
other if it means keeping a persistent nusiance or suspected felon behind bars. While 
good cops certainly do exist, they’re not anything you can count on - 
in fact, for us 
it’s generally better to get a crooked one, because then at least you have a chance of 
1I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


bribing them when they catch you. Honest ones will just ride you in, and our chances 
of surviving to see trial are slightly worse than a child molester’s once we have any kind 
of monsters on our trail. And remember that to the police, you’re just one more crazy 
guy or desperate murderer - 
they might hear you ranting about monsters and cover- 
ups, but they’re not really listening. So at best the police are still our enemies, just not 
particularly interested ones; however, should you become a problem for them in any 
way, you better believe they will make their presence known to you in all kinds ofways 
you’d rather avoid. After all, with how strangely we’re all acting these days, will 
anybody stop them? 
Underworld 
So we’re criminals -why 
not hang around with those who commit crimes as a 
full-time occupation? Maybe we can even use their extensive connections to pull some 
strings and put the word on the street about the existence of monsters.. .. Yeah, right. 
Who are you kidding? First of all, organized crime is often a lot like the police for your 
lower-income neighborhoods, except they don’t have to even bother pretending to be 
impartial- 
if you make yourself apest or otherwise threaten their interests in any way, 
they’ll just work you over or disappear you outright, and no one else will say boo about 
it unless they want to be next. While crime’s not quite the family affair it used to be, 
it’s still not anopencasting call either, and let’sface it, most ofus on this list have about 
as much chance to have what it takes to join the Mafia as we do to join the space 
program. (And if you do have what it takes, get the hell out of my city!) As for the rest 
of the day-to-day desperation of the semi-criminal underclass, well, hell, so much of 
it is due to what the monsters have done that it’s practically impossible to tell where 
the human misery leaves off and the monster influence digs in. Put it on the first order 
of things to be cleaned up during the war, maybe, but as a way of invoking social 
change? Please. 
Pop Culture 
Ah, vox populi - 
and what a shrill voice it is these days, held by the windpipe as 
it is by a conglomeration of your aforementioned business and government interests. 
Even if you manage to go running to a television program that isn’t owned by a 
conglomerate of some kind (good luck), or a newspaper that doesn’t pass its work 
through one censor or another, it’s simplicity itself for monsters to use their mouth- 
pieces to write off the shocking revelation you imparted as a hoax, a publicity stunt or 
something similar. That’s the problem with our jaded, video-game society these days 
- 
the one time a fellow imbued went on television and actually demonstrated his 
powers for the studio audience, they immediately assumed it was nothing other than 
“special effects” (an angle the rest of the media quickly picked up on). I’ve got nothing 
to answer that, either, because I can’t think of a single overt demonstration of our 
powers that couldn’t be chalked up to just “special effects” once you pass it through a 
video lens. It’s asickcycle; society demands proof of anything like what we have to say, 
then sets standards that make it impossible to prove by any means. Truth has at last 
become completely elastic, at least to the popular media- 
they can make it, or break 
it, or shape it as they see fit, simply by acting like they believe in one thing or cast 
aspersions on another. 
Now are you so eager to run off to your local authority figures and tell them what’s 
going on? No, if we’re going to win this war, it’s going to be because we do it on our 
own, not because some cavalry comes riding in to save us at the last minute. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
I 
I 
i 
I 
To: hunter.list@hunter-net.org 
From: witness1 
Re: What it all means 
So that’s a brief overview of where we stand at present, the world we have and 
perhaps a few glimpses of the world we hope to wake up to one morning. And deep 
down I think we all feel that will be the only time we can claim true victory in this war, 
when we’ve made the world safe for humanity to live out its own destiny free of 
supernatural interference (though as you’ve seen many people have different ideas 
about exactly how that will work). I certainly believe so. I’ve seen a lot of terrible things 
since my imbuing, but I’ve seen a lot of courage and compassion as well, on both sides, 
and I can only hope that means that we might just deserve the second chance I feel 
in my heart that we’re getting. 
“INHERIT THE EARTH,” or so the Heralds told me that fateful night. 
I can think of no better way to put it. 
God protect, 
Witness 1 
i
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
1 I 
I 
i 
I 
“. . . and you’re sure that it was just the one entity?” Lucy, better known to some 
as “painter204,” favored Seth with a sympathetic but analytical gaze that he had 
become very familiar with over the past three months. Staying that objective was 
something he still had trouble with, but it seemed to come naturally to her, and more 
than once he had trusted his life to that same ability to come up with a good plan. Just 
like tonight. 
“Only one, yeah, but believe 
s kind of creature is all it takes - 
the damn thing nearly invaded m 
hough I was concentrating on my 
special sight.” Seth looked around a 
s, saw the words sink in. “I only barely 
pushed it away.” 
to find a trail of blood leading down the basement. When the police investigated, they 
found Mr. Wilson sitting in the comer happily playing with his wife’s doll collection, 
absolutely covered in blood from head to toe. He kept muttering something over and 
over, which unfortunately the paper wouldn’t reprint, but the whole scene supposedly 
so unsettled one of the arresting officers that he quit the next day and left for parts 
unknown. They never found her body, but with an obviously deranged husband 
covered in blood it wasn’t a tough stretch for the jury, and he was convicted and sent 
to prison, where he remained until he 
stabbed by another inmate in 1956.” 
The curly-haired young woman w 
ad identified herself to the group only 
as “Feline303” shook her head. “Nice o 
ed family values,” she muttered, and 
a few faint smiles broke out, but Lucy didn’t seem to notice. 
“Following his death, that house has changed hands 23 times, and every time a 
couple has inhabited it there has been some sort of trouble -numerous 
incidences of 
domestic violence, child abuse, incest, six full-blown disappearances and no less than 
nine highly suspicious deaths.” She gestured to the map. “The whole area around it has 
seen a sharp rise in incidents of violence upon women every time a couple moves in. 
The longest dormant period came when it was purchased by an elderly widow, Mrs. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
-4 -7 
Beckner, who held it without apparent incident for the past 10 years up until her death 
four months ago, when your friend Melissa decided to move into the target zone.” 
“Where is Melissa now?” Mae asked. Beside her, her older brother Scott nodded 
his agreement to the question, a thoughtful lookon his face. Seth hadnever asked what 
shared horror the siblings had endured when the Voices first spoke to them, but he had 
never seen them far apart in all the time he’d known them. 
“She went up to her parent’s house tonight, packing up the last of her things. It’s 
all the way up in Newton, so she she’ll be there overnight. After that, it’s touch and 
go as to when we might next be able to get into the house.” Seth looked around, saw 
the same mix of fear and determination on their faces he was sure was on his. “So we 
have to do it tonight.” 
As always, their answer came as one: “Agreed.” 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I i 
i 
I 
t I 
A hunter’s creed determines a great deal about how she acts and how she feels 
about the hunt, but it is important to recognize that the hunter chooses the creed, not 
the other way around. Creeds are not intended to be straightjackets for forcing all 
players of a particular creed to act the same way, but rather a starting point and 
common ground for individuals with similar goals and ideals. 
Each creed description begins with the name of the creed, followed by what 
adherents of that philosophy are known as. (For example, Avengers are - 
surprise! 
- 
those who hold to the tenets of Vengeance.) A member of the creed in question 
offers a brief introduction into the lifestyles and outlook of that creed, followed by a 
series of sub-topics exploring different aspects of that creed and how it interacts with 
the world that has been revealed to it. A summary of each of these topics follows: 
Weakness 
Humans being the fallible creatures that they are, it stands to reason that 
members of the same creed might be likely to encounter the same problems and pitfalls 
as a result of their ideology. This can range from social difficulties or extremes of 
behavior that a creed’s philosophy make it particularly likely for members to develop, 
to (in particularly serious instances) actual physical or mental problems that arise from 
the very nature of the creed’s imbuing. 
Apocrypha 
Forged as they are in similar circumstances and driven by comparable ideals, 
many of the creeds hold similar beliefs about the nature of the hunt, the Heralds, the 
enemy and other aspects of their new existence. In addition, certain common 
personality traits or quirks that creed members often share are recorded here as well. 
Gift 
Though only the most inquisitive and dedicated hunters are beginning to fully 
realize it, within members of each creed lies the potential for a special great 
contribution to the cause beyond what the powers of Conviction and edges already 
offer: from enhanced weapons to insightful symbols to a mystical bond of shared 
strength and purpose, these additional gifts may well represent the next step of the 
mission. Powerful as they are, these gifts have the potential to add unbalancing 
elements to the game or potentially ruin the very human nature of the imbued, and as 
such may only be included at the Storyteller’sdiscretion. While any of these gifts might 
occur to a character spontaneously, especially when a hunter has progressed far in her 
creed’s Virtues, most of these gifts use techniques that a hunter must be told about by 
a fellow creed member who knows them, further limiting the number of imbued who 
have this knowledge available. Additionally, each gift carries certain prerequisites 
and/or mandatory Trait expenditures with it, which must be met before it will 
function. Lastly, even once mastered, a gift only functions for members of the creed 
who possess it, unless the gift description or the Storyteller specifically says otherwise 
-for 
example, no matter how many Vision Traits a character acquires, unless he is a 
member of the Visionary creed he will never be able to learn how to craft mission 
symbols as they do. These gifts are intended to be expressions of deep understanding 
of a creed’s ultimate purpose, not chances for players to load their group up with free 
bonuses or “magic items,” and should be treated accordingly. 
Note: Many gifts require the expenditure of a large number of Conviction Traits 
to empower. If they cannot all be spent at once, a hunter may create a “pool” of 
Conviction Traits, which he may contribute to at any time; however, once a 
Conviction Trait has been set aside in this fashion, it cannot be used for anything else, 
nor can it be taken out again, and should the pool be abandoned all Conviction that 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I 
1 
1 
I 
)I 
1 i 
I 
was stored in it is lost. Thus, pooling Conviction allows for the creation of special items 
and other unique feats, but carries a commensurate amount of risk and responsibility 
as well. 
Imbuing 
This section deals with some common themes and incidents that tend to be found 
in the imbuing of the members of a particular creed, as well as that creed’s common 
reactions to the experience itself. Of course, the ways the Heralds reveal themselves 
are as numerous as hunters themselves, but astute imbued have begun to notice 
similarities, which in turn begs the question: does the imbuing determine what creed 
a hunter will follow, or is the hunter’s natural inclination toward a creed something 
that would have found a way to express itself in any situation the Heralds had put 
before him? 
Camps 
Members of a creed pursue its ideals and objectives differently, and these camps 
recognize some of the attitudes and methods that are often adopted by different 
members of the same creed. Exactly how formal these distinctions are varies from creed 
to creed. In some, such as Innocence, there are few practical differences between 
members of different camps, while in creeds such as Vengeance the divisions tend to 
be much more overt. It should be noted that hunters will never actually ask “What 
camp are you?” For the time being at least, it remains a matter of personal opinion and 
effort and not a recognized distinction. 
Starting Conviction 
This number determines the hunter’s permanent Conviction rating during 
character creation, as well as the number of temporary Conviction Traits that he 
“resets” to upon acquiring a new Virtue Trait. Thus, upon cashing in 10 temporary 
Conviction Traits to acquire a new Virtue Trait, an Avenger resets at four temporary 
Conviction Traits the next session, since that is what a starting Avenger receives. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


r”’ I 
‘l 
c 
I 
I 
I I 
Vengeance 
fivengers 
Let me tell you something - 
there’s a world of difference between fighting a war 
to win and fighting one not to lose. One has definite objectives and an ultimate victory 
condition; the other can only drag on as a holding action, plagued by indecision and 
bound to fail. That’s where we differ from others of our kind - 
we’re not willing to just 
fight to save a little something here, or wait for monsters to come take a shot at us. We 
know the only winning way to approach the hunt is to take the offensive and make the 
enemy pay for every inch they hold with blood. After all, what good is trying to fight 
defensively when the enemy conquered your territory thousands of years ago? No, if 
we’re going to purge the world of the taint that’s infecting it, the only way to do it is 
to plan for the destruction of the enemy, starting now. 
Don’t get me wrong - 
just because we believe in taking direct action doesn’t 
mean all of our plans begin with “There they are! Get ‘em!” and end with a hail of 
gunfire. While I won’t say that we exactly shy away from violence - 
we are at war, 
never forget that - 
but flexing your trigger finger doesn’t mean you should automati- 
cally disengage your brain, either. Running straight into the 
heart of the enemy with guns blazing might catch them off 
guard, but probably not, and even if it does the first time, sooner 
or later you’re bound to run into something that’ll just shrug off 
your bullets, and then what do you do? So we’re not such 
strangers to planning as some of the others think, because while 
instinct might help you survive the battle, it’s tactics that will 
carry the war. What we m e  unfamiliar with is inaction - 
we 
can’t just sit back and wait for a break to come along. Like it or 
not, once we hear the Call, we’re not happy unless we’re 
working on the hunt, whether we’re actually stalking the beasts 
or just buying the supplies for future operations. The sooner we 
do greater and greater damage to the enemy, the better. 
Bloodthirsty? Some of us, sure. But I’ll tell you this: deep 
down, even the most temperate of our kind (relatively speaking, 
of course) has always had a strong sense of justice. And I don’t 
mean the touchy-feely , let’s-not-hurt-a-criminal’s-self-esteem 
crap 
that passes for justice these days; I mean jushce in the Biblical 
fashion, where the wicked get exactly what they deserve and the 
harm done to a victim is repaid several times over to the evildoer 
who inflicted it. We were the kids who always pretended we were 
white knights or Wild West gunslingers, protecting the innocent 
and taking out the bad guys. Even as we got older, our sense of 
outrage at the sight of a criminal going free on a technicality or just 
evil going unpunished in general never diminished. We may not 
have had the tools or influence to set things right the way we wanted 
to, but none of us ever looked the other way and forgot about it 
either.That’swhysomanyofusseem to takesonaturally to the hunt; 
when the Messengers awaken us, it’s like for the first time we finally 
get a chance to say “No more!” and stand up to those who would 
abuse others. Except that instead of the mere hoods or crooked 
politicians we raged against before, now we’re up against evil incar- 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


nate. But if that’s what it has to be, fine - 
it’s us or them, and I don’t think humanity 
is due to lay down and die just yet. 
Call it single-mindedness if you like, but any soldier will tell you that in war 
there’s only two sides -people alongside you, and people at the other end of the barrel. 
Maybe there are some creatures out there who aren’t as bad as the others, but who can 
know for sure? I’ve heard the arguments from others before, and I’m not convinced. 
After all, if it’s not a monster’s fault that it became what it is, then it can’t control its 
state either, and that means even the friendliest and most humane of them could go 
bad at any time. That’s not a risk I’m willing to stake my own life on, let alone the life 
of someone on my team or especially an innocent person. And if they turned of their 
own free will, well, they should’ve thought a little harder before abandoning their 
humanity to prey on others. Monsters have been running up a karmic debt for 
thousands of years now, and it’s time they got some payback. If we’re the only ones 
willing to take it to them, then so be it. What was it the man once said? “Even a single 
spark can bum an ancient forest to the ground.” 
The Heralds handed us the match. Now it’s up to us to strike it. 
Weakness 
If we have a real weakness - 
as 
a person to actually plan battles with 
whatever you want to call it that drives 
s in the night - 
it’s our tendency to be 
otten almost as bad as 
in case you or someone you know ever Starts thinking of broadening your crusade 
beyond the monsters the Heralds revealed: you commit acts like that, you are the 
enemy to the rest of us, and you know what that means. Humanity must be saved, and 
that means some drastic measures are nec ssary, but if we tum ourselves into monsters 
to do it, what the hell have we won? 
Our need for action can get us in tro ble because it makes even the level-headed 
among us too itchy to make something happen, when they really need to calm down 
or lie low for a while. So long as we c 
el it one way or another, we’re fine, but 
leaving us alone with nothing to do is a 
for trouble. Fortunately, most ofthe time 
it’s the enemy that pays the price, but all you need is to lose one friend to such rash 
action to know that it only brings bad thngs in the end. 
hpnsrypha 
As a rule, Avengers tend to have 
ditional views of good and evil, and little 
trouble drawing a line between wha 
preserving and what needs destroying. 
Some justify their new mission with religion or a similar higher cause, while others 
might simply believe that humanity needs to rid itself of these unnatural parasites, but 
in the end nearly all Avengers see their cause as straightforward and their goals as 
clearly definable. Self-confidence is another defining Trait of this creed: after all, not 
just anyone can be confronted with a hideous monster bent on destruction and have 
their first response be to kick it in a sensitive area until it stops moving! Lastly, all 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
i 
I 
i 
I 
Avengers recognize that war has only one outcome: survive or be destroyed. Other 
creeds might try to kid themselves about the outcome of the present conflict, but 
Avengers look at the world and see that either humanity can surrender and be ground 
into extinction even faster, or it can fight back and take control of its destiny for the 
first time in history. 
Cif t 
Terrible Swift Sword 
One of the main failings of the Cleave edge is that, while extremely powerful, it 
inevitably destroys the weapon in the process, sometimes even at the worst possible 
moment in battle. However, word has recently spread among a few of the Vengeful 
regarding the existence of special techniques that can render a melee weapon immune 
to the damage inherently caused by Cleave. The weapon can still be destroyed by other 
circumstances, but in the hands of its creator it will never be consumed by the wrath 
he invests in it. Of course, not just any weapon will do: all such weapons must be hand- 
crafted by their intended wielder, a process which takes days of concentrated effort and 
requires materials of the highest quality, as well as the invocation of special rites unique 
to the weapon’s creator. For example, some Avengers may bathe their weapon in holy 
water, others might consecrate it to the four elements, and still others might bum 
incense and ask their ancestors to bless it to strike down the unholy. Even secular creed 
members still perform their own rituals for “consecrating” a weapon in this fashion, 
though they may not consciously realize that they are performing a ritual. If all these 
steps are taken, the result is a breathtaking weapon that never suffers any of the 
negative effects of Cleave, becoming a potent tool for Vengeance indeed! 
System: An Avenger must have been personally instructed in the basics of this gift 
before he can attempt to make a Cleave-resistant weapon; merely being told how over 
the phone or hunter-net is insufficient to learn the process. Provided that condition 
can be met, he must also possess at least three levels of Crafts: Metalworking or two 
levels of Crafts: Woodworking, as appropriate for the type of weapon being created, as 
well as a proper workshop and materials to complete the process (which require a 
minimum of Resources x 2 to obtain). He may then begin the painstaking process of 
crafting the weapon, which requires a minimum investment of a number of Crafts 
levels equal to twice the weapon’s Bonus Traits; in addition, an expenditure of 10 
temporary Conviction Traits per Bonus Trait is required before the weapon can be 
considered truly finished. 
As soon as the hunter has enough Traits in the pool equal to the amount required, 
he may perform the final consecration rites to invest it with his Zeal (and get the 
Storyteller to sign the item card). Assuming all the requirements have been met, the 
resulting weapon is considered a normal (if finely crafted) weapon of its type, except 
that when used to Cleave by its creator, it suffers no damage or deterioration. It may 
be destroyed by other means and is highly resistant to regular wear and tear, though 
if another hunter uses it for Cleave it begins suffering lost Bonus Traits normally and 
cannot be repaired. 
Imbuing 
All Avenger imbuings have one common denominator: violence, and usually 
lots of it. Someone almost always dies, whether an innocent, a monster or even the 
hunter himself. One common situation finds the new imbued facing a single creature 
committing atrocious deeds with no fear ofreprisal, confident that no lowly mortal can 
harm it -until 
the Avenger steps in and does something about it. Regardless of the 
i
5 P 
I 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
1 
1 
I 
* 
I i I 
circumstances, however, an Avenger’s first response is to strike back at the creature 
responsible, out of rage, righteousness, fear or some combination of the three. Being 
at war with such a vast and mysterious enemy would paralyze most people with fright, 
but not so with an Avenger. Their first response is to lash out at the closest enemies 
they can lay their hands on, and do as much damage as possible. They don’t know what 
they’re up against and frankly don’t care - 
all they know is that it’s evil and must be 
destroyed now! 
Camps 
Hardcore -When other creeds think of Avengers, they tend to think of these 
types - 
fanatics who are consumed by the hunt, armed to the teeth and don’t hesitate 
to charge in with guns blazing at the first sign of monster activity. In truth such 
Vengeful tend to be either very new to the hunt, full of anger and eager to strike a blow 
at the forces of evil, or have been in it too long and gotten burned out to the point 
where only tactics and targets matter anymore. Their narrow focus gives them great 
determination, but also makes them prone to obsessive and extreme behavior, 
although many have an eerie knack for attracting groups of like-minded associates to 
their bloody causes. 
Moderate -These 
Avengers are less likely to quibble about the way others go 
about doing their part for the mission, so long as the end result is the same. They are 
also more likely to act out of a sense of personal outrage than turn their cause into a 
larger crusade, and are more willing to consult other Zealots for advice on what needs 
to be done. However, they still view other creeds with some suspicion until they prove 
themselves in the field. 
Progressive - 
Although it might seem something of a misnomer for the 
Vengeful, these imbued can be considered the opposite of their hardcore fellows: while 
they also recognize a need for great change and direct action, these Avengers are the 
most likely to investigate all possible means of doing so, including consulting members 
of other creeds. This doesn’t mean they aren’t quite capable of down-and-dirty fighting 
when necessary, but as a rule they tend to rely more on their wits and investigative 
talents than brute force or charisma. 
Starting Conviction: 4 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Def else 
Defenders 
There’s a war going on, and we’ll be damned if we think it’s going to be won 
without some bloodyfights. But let me ask you this before yourunoff todo battle: what 
good is winning the war if it you don’t manage to preserve everything you’re fighting 
for in the first place? A lot of the others drop out of their old lives and distance 
themselves from everything they held dear, afraid that their new existence will put all 
they value in jeopardy. To us, though, that’s not acceptable. Sure, there are monsters 
who might try to use your family or friends against you, or strike at them in retaliation 
for whatyou'vedone-but doyoureally thinkusingafakenameormovingafewstates 
away is going to throw off a bloodsucker with the police in its pocket? For that matter, 
what about a ghost who can invade your dreams, or a witch with a crystal ball? You 
might as well accept it now: sooner or later, one of the enemy will track down people 
or places it knows you hold dear. And when that happens, how are you supposed to 
protect them if you’ve gone away? Will you still be able to hold your weapons or olive 
branches with their blood on your hands, hear the Call with 
their dying cries echoing in your ears7 I didn’t think so. 
That’s why we do what we do, and I can see in your eyes 
that you know exactly what I mean when I say that my first 
reaction to the Messengers was to think of those I knew who 
were still blind and needed my protection. For me it was 
my family; for others it’s been friends, or a neighbor- 
hood, or an organization. There was even one woman 
1 met who talked about fighting to protect an ideal, 
though I’d guess that’s pretty rare. Regardless of 
exactly what our charge may be, we all feel the same 
desire deep down, a need to single out something we 
treasure above all else and keep it safe from the evil 
the monsters represent. It’s not a matter of posses- 
siveness or territoriality, though you can start 
developing those traits if you’re not careful; it’s a need to 
draw a line in the sand and say “No farther!” to the 
monsters who think they can simply play with humans 
anytime they like. And you’d better believe that crea- , 
tures who try to cross that line will pay for every inch in 
blood. While we may be more reluctant to fight than 
those who dedicate themselves to vengeance, for ex- 
ample, it doesn’t mean we’re any less capable of doing so, 
and when our charge is in danger our ferocity is second to 
1 
. 
none. 
Unfortunately, some of the others have a tendency 
to label our natural caution as hesitation or even coward- 
ice, and point the finger at us for hiding in our strongholds 
while the world dies. Sadly, there’s a grain of truth to 
such rumors: some of us have “gone ostrich,” as they 
say on hunter-net, and no longer feel responsible for 
anything beyond their self-appointed area of interest, 1 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


even going so far as to run off others who come to them for aid. To these anecdotes and 
accusations we simply must respond that if we’re going to win this war, someone has 
to watch over the home front and guard our flanks out in the field, not to mention 
know when to sound the retreat if the battle goes poorly. If we’re to keep the trust of 
our comrades, it’s essential that we make them understand that we assume these roles 
out of natural inclination and dedication, not because we’re trying to hide from our 
new lives. Once they understand that, they’ll start recognizing that the protection and 
support we offer isn’t secondary to their objectives, it’s the essence of what they’ve 
been fighting for all along. 
Ultimately, we’re the best of any imbued at remembering just what it is we’re 
fighting for - 
and why we’d lay down our lives to protect it. Make no mistake, we are 
the last line of defense in a war that started us off deep in our own territory to begin 
with. After us, there’s nothing, and all imbued would do well to remember that before 
rushing off and dying “to make a statement.” Indeed, we are also the most likely of all 
the imbued to quit the field and fight another day, if for no other reason than dying 
puts the care of our charges into someon 
ands, and that’s just not acceptable. 
We intend to win this war like everyone e 
‘rst we’re going to make sure we have 
something to come home to when it’s 
member what that feeling was like? 
When you came home at night and fell into the arm3 of your parents, or your friends, 
or your spouse? When it all felt safe and happy, and you thought to yourself: I’d do 
er? Or when you looked down 
safe, giue her the fu 
you been fighting for? 
The problem has already been raised regarding those 
isolation, survivalist-style, but it bears repeating since it can creep up on even to those 
who feel they’re immune to swh extreme responses. The basic problem is that no 
amount of preparation can ever really protect you from everything; for example, once 
you start fortifying your home, it’s hard to stop. No matter how much you do you’ll 
never feel it’s enough to keep yo& safe from them. Another less obvious but still 
significant problem is those of us who decide to adopt their fellow imbued as their 
charges. While this is a good thing in the right doses, it can quickly turn ugly if a self- 
appointed protector suddenly decides to prevent her charge from entering dangerous 
situations at all, perhaps causing a disas 
tation or delay at a critical moment. 
Or even if they don’t do anything wron 
gs of regret can eat them up if their 
charge is injured, no matter how often 
ind them we’re at war and casualties 
happen. 
Last, but not least, there are some who come to regard monsters - 
usually a 
specific one, or maybe a similar type of creature - 
as their charges, and will even step 
between us and the enemy if need be. This is most common if one of us suddenly 
discovers that someone they care about has become a monster, but it can happen to 
anyone who starts sympathizing too much with the creatures. Suffice it to say that 
confrontations are typically explosive and unpleasant for all concerned, and pray that 
you never have to make that kind of call in your career. 
Apocrypha 
Defenders ate frequently highly traditional in their outlook, as their natural 
tendency to protect what they value often makes them wary of radical new ideas as well 
as more obvious changes to their environment. Like most Zealots, they tend to see 
things in rather black-and-white terms, but unlike the Vengeful they do not usually 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
1 I 
I 
1 
II[ 
draw a line between “good” and “evil,” but rather more of a distinction between 
“protected” and “predator.” Whether they choose to think that they’ve been picked 
by angels to save righteous folk from the devil, or have been chosen by fate to shield 
an important person or place from harm, their ideas about the Heralds stress the 
importance of preserving some measure of good no matter what the cost. 
Of course, there are some Defenders who go the other way and reject traditional 
systems and ways of thinking; after all, they reason, such views come from a time when 
monsters ruled unchallenged, and might even have been instituted to help keep 
humans in line! Such imbued might have wild theories about the origins of the 
Messengers and their purpose, or they may be pure pragmatists who saw corruption and 
depravity everywhere before the imbuing. Regardless, they look for alternative solu- 
tions to hiding behind a faith or a belief to keep them going. Either way, both types 
of Defenders can ultimately agree on at least one thing: if the earth cannot be made 
a safe place for humanity to live, there’s no reason to fight at all, because the monsters 
have already won. 
Gift 
Guardian Angel 
Defendersoftenwish they could leave behindsomething ofthemselves to watchover 
their charges when they are away, or that even after they die they might continue to protect 
thosetheyholddeartothemse1ves.Astheygainexperienceandperspectiveonthe 
hunt, they 
frequently findthemselvesmakiigsmallitemstogive totheirlovedones (“Mommymade this 
necklace for you toletyouknowthatshellalwaysbewithyou, 
sweetheart”) orgivingaway items 
of special emotional significance to them (“Here, son, I want you to have this - 
your 
grandfather’swatch. Iknowyoulike it, andnow that I’mtravelingsomuchl want you tohave 
itsoyou’llalwaysknowwhenI’mcominghome”).Maybe 
they erect amonumentorplanta 
treeatalocationtheytreasure,signifyingtheirattachment 
to it. Itseemsanatural thingtodo, 
asymboloftheiraffectionandprotection, and ifquestioned they woulddiscernno deeper 
motive behind thisoccasional desire. Unbeknownst to them, however, sometimes their 
imbueddedicationactuallycreatesaspecialbondbetweensuch 
itemsand their owners, d i n g  
them resistant to harm from supernatural sources. 
System: A DefendermusthaveaminimumofoneTraiteachinZeal,MercyandVision 
topossesstherequisiteunderstanding tocreateorpassonthese items, andhecannevermake 
more tokens than his Zed rating. In the case of an item they create, he must expend a number 
oflevelsoftheappropriateCr&orE@rasionAbilityequal 
to the levelofprotectionhe wants 
it toprovide. W ithanitembeingpassedalong, itmusthaveanincreasinglyhighamountof 
emotionalsignificance,startingperhapswithasmallfamilyheirloomatoneTraitandworking 
up to an incredibly personal and valued possession at five Traits, such as the final gift acharacter 
received fromabelovedrelative (Storyteller’sdiscretion, but it shouldbe well thought out and 
sacrificed with significant emotion). In addition, the Defender must spend five temporary 
ConvictionTraitsforeachlevelofprotectionhe wishesthe tokentoprovide,up amaximum 
numberoflevelsequal tohis permanent Zealrating. The total process ofinvestmentrequires 
at minimumanumberofhoursequal totheConvictionTraits sspentonthe token, thoughthe 
Storyteller may increase this time ifshedesires. Onlynormalpeopleorlocationscanbenefit 
from the protectionof a token; imbued, supernatural creatures and even bystanders gainno 
benefit from these items at all, and a person may only gain the benefits of one of these tokens 
at a time. 
Once created, tokens automatically absorb anumber of levels ofdamage (bashing or 
lethal) fromallsupematuralattacks,equal 
tothelevelatwhichtheywerecreated, including 
all brawlingattacks as well asclaws and teeth or evenmagical blasts offire or similar things. Thus, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
1 
1 
I 
E i 
a token with three levels ofprotection absorbs the first three levels of damage fromevery 
supernatural atrackthathits itswearer. Damageorcontrolfrommentalandemotional 
attacks 
isnotprevented, nor are attacks by ordinary people or mundane meanssuchasbeing shot with 
a pistol. There isno limit to the amount ofdamage that a tokencan withstand in this fashion, 
though it has no particularresistance tonormalformsofdamageor loss and thus can beeasily 
destroyed ifthe wearer is incautious. Inthecaseofan itemprotecting alocation, the Storyteller 
mayrule that itissimplyimmune tosupematuralfireandothersources, thoughagainit can 
still be destroyed by ordinary means. Huntersusing the sight can tell something’s special about 
the item, thoughnotnecessarilywhat, althoughedgeslikeDiscemor Witness mightprovide 
more ofaclue. 
Note: Itshouldbestressedthatwhiletheplayermayknowwhat’sgoingon,theDefender 
herselfhasnoconscious ideawhatshe’screatingwhenshefashionsone 
ofthese tokens, and 
the Storytellershouldensure that the player doesnot 1ookatthecharacterassimplya“magic 
amulet”factory, or thedramaandmore importantlythehumanapect ofthe hunter isgreatly 
diminished. 
Imbuing 
Predictably enough, many Defenders report imbuingthat involvedsome kindofsiege by 
monsters, wherenotonlydidtheyhave toprotecttheotherpplewiththemfromthecreatures 
but also had to keep those people from panicking or fighting among themselves. Other 
Defenders talk about facing off against a creature who wanted to harm someone the imbued 
caredabout (orperhapsevenmoreinterestinglyatotalstranger), 
butwhoseemedreluctantto 
harm the Defender himself in any way, forcing him to decide between escaping safely and 
protecting the intended victim. Most terrifying ofall, a tortured few describe being forced to 
decide whom to protect, knowingfullwell that the person they don’t pickwillsuffer some 
terrible fate. 
camps 
Aggressive-These 
Defenderslive bythe motto“thebestdefenseisanightmarish1y 
powerful offense,” and as such are oftenmistaken for Avengers or Maqm as they take the fight 
totheenemyonthe creatures’ownturf.Theyarequitewillingtodietoprotecttheircharges, 
thoughnot without first making their deaths extremely costly to the enemy. Many have places 
or itemsastheirchargesandfortifystrongholdsaccordingly, 
stockingthemwith weaponsand 
equipment. Chances are that before the imbuing, these Defenders saw the heavy toll that 
cruelty takes onthosewhoareunwilling tostandupandprotectthemselves, 
andtheircurrent 
methcdologybearsoutthisunwillingness 
toliedownanddie. 
Temperate-Many 
Defenders inthiscamptrytocontinuewiththeirold lives, lashing 
out fiercely at anything that threatens their precious routine. Others, having lost their own way 
oflife,becomeguardianangelsandshieldothersfromtherealityofmonstersso 
they canlive 
their livesnormally. Morethoughtful than theaggressivetypes, thesekfenderstypically plan 
ambuhesandotherwisefightonlywhentheycandosoontheirown 
tem.These imbueddon’t 
seekouttrouble, but they don’tgiveany groundto it either. 
Tolerant-Some 
call these hunters cowards, but in truth they are simply extremely 
reluctanttoengage inaconflictwhere theyhaven’thadtime tostudy allpossiblecoursesof 
actionfirst.Whi1e theyareguardiansliketherestoftheirbrethren, they are the most flexible 
about consulting members ofother creeds, andmany havedoubts about the motives of the 
Heralds who would lead them into such a conflict as this without giving them much 
information first. 
Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I 
1 I 
I 
1 
I 
Judgment 
Judges 
Before the Heralds turned our lives upside-down, we still had questions about the 
lives we were leading, whether we voiced them as philosophy professors in some ivory 
tower, police officers interacting with the everyday world or even just regular folks 
shuffling through a job that didn’t demand too much of us. We questioned if what we 
did made a difference, if there really was a higher authority or if it even mattered to 
wonder about such things when so much evil and suffering existed. In our darker 
moments, we even wondered about the harder things, like whether it was better to do 
away with some to improve the lives of others, if some sins could ever be forgiven, or 
if we could ever find a definition of “evil” that all cultures agreed on. In our innocence, 
we even questioned if we would have the courage and conviction to make the right 
decisions if need arose. 
Let it never be said the Heralds are without a sense of irony. 
Suddenly there it was, a whole new world before us, and we 
could see the same questions we had always wondered about 
take on new dimensions as we struggled to cope with this new 
threat. We saw the evil and the corruption in the world and 
instinctively recognized that it was wrong, but just couldn’t 
bring ourselves to leave our assessment of it at that as so 
many of our fellows did. We had to keep on question- 
ing everything, from the smallest details of the hunt 
(does garlic work? can they cross running water?) to 
the grandest notions of why we had been chosen 
and what we were meant to do. Before long, we 
noticed the others had started looking to us when 
it came time to figure out what we were up against, 
or when it was time to decide whether some 
monster deserved to live or die, and we realized what our 
entire lives had been building up to. It is a burden, 
certainly, to be the ones who must make the decisions 
that others cannot or will not decide themselves, and I 
can see in your eyes that you know all too well the weight 
of knowing that some other being’s fate is in your hands. 
But I can also see that you, like the rest of us, would have 
it no other way -you must seek the answers yourself, and 
if that means enduring the process of asking the questions, 
so be it. 
Excuse me. If 1 sound a bit presumptuous, I apologize, 
but I think you’ll find it’s true that most of us are excellent 
judges of character, if only because many of us start with an 
inherent distrust of it. Not that we believe people are 
inherently doomed to evil and wickedness. Quite the oppo- 
site, in fact. After all, how difficult would our decisions be if 
we knew everyone we judged was automatically guilty?No, 
I think you’ll find that most of us believe in very high 
standards for humanity, whether it takes the form of a 
I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
4-4- 
religious code, a personal philosophy or even just a simple belief that humans were 
meant for something greater than this. Why do you think we tend to look so harshly 
on monsters and others who would deny humanity this potential? It is very difficult to 
condemn if you do not have a position to condemn them from (or to), and even those 
of us who fancy themselves more “enlightened’’ than a strict system of rules and 
punishments still find themselves forced to pass judgment on a creature so foul that 
their first instinct is to banish it to the darkest Hell they can imagine, “individual 
concerns” notwithstanding. Conversely, those who pride themselves on their unyield- 
ing standards of conduct will one day find themselves forced to convict a person they 
know to be undeserving of the judgment their “law” prescribes for an offense, at which 
time they will face much the same crisis of conscience that their liberal colleague did 
before. 
So what’s to be done about this dilemma, the gulf we all know lies between the 
natural tendency to pass judgment and the recognition of human fallibility? Suffice it 
to say simply that no one path will lead you through your challenges without running 
into some difficult decisions to make, so you just walk with determination and 
objective terms, with no thought for their personal needs and ideas, chances are you’ve 
started thinking that making some decisions makes you capable of knowing what is 
“best” for everyone. When that happens, take some time and reacquaint yourself with 
those around you, so you can remember exactly why you’re doing your job as opposed 
to what it entitles you to. 
Oh, and remember that no matter how corrupt the law might be, replacing it with 
an inflexible code of your own isn’t any better. We’re not trying to devise a penal code 
for the supernatural, we’re trying to sort out what we’re up against and what needs to 
be done about it. Do yourself a favor and don’t lay down any “absolutes,” no matter how 
tempting it might be. 
Apocrypha 
There are plenty of imbued who ask questions - 
indeed, Judges are suspicious of 
ones who don’t. The difference between Judges and other imbued is that they not only 
question, but have the drive to make decisions and act on them as well. Their 
I
I
1
1i
1
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


judgments may not be perfect, and they certainly feel the sting when they are not, but 
some action must be taken or all will be lost. Other than that rather constant factor, 
most Judges are split evenly on a variety of issues, depending on whether their view of 
their duty is a positive or negative one. Those who find comfort in their calling often 
claim to have found a new bond with their loved ones and even a fresh devotion to 
their deity, while those who see their role as more of a curse speak of how the terrible 
decisions they must make distance them from those they once held dear and destroy 
past notions they had of a benevolent force behind all of creations. In regards to their 
outlook on the hunt, they recognize more gray areas than their fellow Zealots, but still 
tend to make decisions based on old-fashioned notions of justice and fairness. After 
all, sometimes even the best option still involves suffering for innocents, and if that’s 
the kind of decision you have to make on a regular basis, it quickly hardens your sense 
of mercy to those who commit evil acts of their own volition. 
Gift 
The Verdict 
One thing that haunts many Judges is that their assessment of a monster can 
become meaningless if the creature passes outside the reach of those who the Judge can 
convince of itsguilt orworthiness; hunters in adistant city might welldestroy arot that 
posed no harm to anyone, for example, or be fooled by the virtuous disguise of a being 
the Judge knows firsthand to be evil incarnate. Perhaps the Heralds heard these wishes, 
as some experienced creed members have begun to discover that they have a capacity 
to modify or create a special marker bearing a symbol of deep personal importance to 
them, which they can then use to brand a particular creature they have extensive 
firsthand knowledge of with an aura that tells other hunters whether it “deserves 
mercy” or “deserves destruction.” Fellow imbued simply look at the beast and feel the 
Judge’s verdict instinctively register in their minds, thus giving the Judge some hope 
that his sentence will be carried out (or a worthy creature spared), no matter how far 
it might travel. No matter how much they may desire, however, a Judge can never 
place a verdict on a normal person or other imbued. 
System: A Judge must possess at least three Traits in Zeal and one Trait each in 
Mercy and Vision before he can begin making a marker, though once these levels are 
achieved it is up to the Storyteller to determine when the urge strikes. For example, 
Judges who routinely destroy or spare every creature they find have less of a need than 
those who take pains to arrive at a verdict in each instance. A marker must be 
something that can be held in one hand and that bears a symbol with deep personal 
significance to the hunter (not something from the hunter code). If it is being crafted 
or modified, it requires an expenditure of a number of levels of Crafts equal to the 
Judge’s Zeal rating; other items may be used only if they possess sufficient emotional 
value to the Judge. In addition to these requirements, the Judge must spend 10 
Conviction Traits on the marker to invest it with his Zeal before it’s considered 
finished. Only the original Judge who crafted the marker can use it, even if another 
Judge with the ability to deliver a verdict wields it. 
Once it isfiniihed, aJudgemaydeliveraverdictonanycreaturehehasextensivefmthand 
knowledge of and feels passionate about sentencing; creatures that do not meet these 
requirementscannothaveaverdictp1acedonthem.The 
Judgemust touchthecreature with 
its marker (using aPhysicalChallenge ifthecreatureresists) andspendaConvictionTraiqno 
damageneedbedone, but itmustbeasolidcontactforthemarkertotakeeffect. Itcaneven 
be used on incorporeal targets, provided the Judge can touch the space they occupy, and 
possessingspirits retain themarkevenifthey leave theirhost. Ifsuccessful, theverdict isapplied 
i
I !
f 
1 I 
1 
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


andcannot be removedunlessreplacedby a Judge withhigherZealortheorigina1 Judge touches 
thecreatureandwillshisverdict alteredorremoved.On1yoneverdict may applytoacreature 
at a time. Affectedcreatures must thereafter wear prominent description tags bearing the 
hunter’s symbol or the Judgment sign for the hunter code (whichever is easier) and reading 
either “deserves mercy”or “deserves punishment.”Not even the deathof the Judge removes 
averdict,and theJudgecaninstinctively tellifacreaturebearinghisverdicthas 
beentreated 
in an undeserving fashion regardless of the distance between the two (though not where it is 
or who did it). It should be noted that otherhuntersdonot need to act upon the Judge’sverdict, 
thoughit isanunusualenoughfeelingtogive mostpause before actingothenvise. 
Imbuing 
Judges tend to have rather unorthodox imbuings, especially compared to their fellow 
Zealots-they often find themselves in the presenceofmultiplecreatures, forcingthem to 
determine which ones pose the greatest threat and then deal with them accordingly. 
Sometimesthesemonstersaren’teveninterestedinthemortalsaroundthem, 
but are fighting 
with each other (thoughnothing says ordinary folks might not be hurt in the crossfire), and the 
Judgemust try tomakesomesenseoftheconflict aswellasthenatureofmonstersthemselves. 
Those Judges who face a solitary creature don’t have it any easier than their fellows: such 
imbuings usually find the character facedwith a personwho has been possessed or controlled 
by a malicious entity andcompelled toperform temble acts, forcingthe Judge todecide whether 
ornotthepoorhostcanbesavedsomehow or ifhemustdie topreventthecreaturefiomdoing 
worsedamage. Anditjustgets tougherfromthere.. .. 
camps 
Conservative-Astheirnameimplies, imbuedofthiscamptendtoholdverytraditional 
viewson judgment and punishment, and tend to push for harshactionagainst those who they 
deemdeserving.TheyarealsotheJudges1east likely tograntmercytoapossessedhostorother 
dupe, and tend to subscribe to the belief that while it isextremely unfortunate to pronounce 
such asentence, thevalueofstoppingthe evilsuchindividualsperformoutweighs 
the rights 
ofinnocentswhoareusedbytheenemyin suchafashion. Ironically,mostofthese Judgesfind 
themselvesatoddswithmundane authoritiesdue tothe harsh-some 
might say draconian 
-punishments they inflict on the monsters they encounter. 
Moderate- A Judge ofthis persuasion has aspecificcodeofethics andvalues he uses 
asabasis to judgeothers, althoughunlikehisconservativecounterparthefreelyadmits that it 
is his systemofmorality,notauniversalone. Atthesame time,ethicsandlawmusthave 
constant rules ofsome kind, or they cease being codes ofconduct and become nothing more 
thanopinion. These Judges alsobelieve that doing evil isachoice that allarecapableofrefusing, 
humanor monster, andsohavelittle sympathyforexcusesorjustificationswhenpassing 
sentence.Thosewhotakeresponsibilityfortheiractionseamhisrespect,andheseeks 
to teach 
others morality by example. 
Liberal-These Judges are almost all moral relativists, and base their judgment on the 
needs ofthesituation, insteadoftrying toapply the samesystemofrulesandvaluesoverand 
over again. They are believers in the greater good, but convinced that it can only be achieved 
by observing what needs to be done on a case-by-case basis, and so tend to assume support 
positionsrather thanmove tothe headofthegroup.Thepersonalnatureoftheirru1ings 
also 
means that they suffer terribly when they’re proved wrong, since they have no one but 
themselves to blame, andso they tend toweightheir optionsverycarefullybeforerecommend- 
ingacourseofaction. 
Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
Iflfll?ceflc e 
lnnocen ts 
Hapless victims. Collateral damage. Friendly fire. “We had to burn the village in 
order to save it.’’ No matter how well-intentioned the generals might be, how 
righteous the cause may seem, it’s a sad fact that every war inevitably winds up killing 
people who had nothing to do with the action going on. What’s more, as the conflict 
grinds on, it’s hard not to give in to the temptation of sinking to the level of the other 
side, especially when the enemy is a horde of terrifying monsters that act without 
regard for human life at every turn. And sure enough, before long you’ve heard it 
beginning, but this time it’s on your side of the fence. They’re all monsters, they all huve 
to die, and so it’s OK to cut a few corners, ignore a few cries for mercy, set fire to a few 
‘ihavens” rather than try talking to the things inside them. Stolen? These things control 
the system -how 
else are we supposed to get thts stuff? Torture? No, I wouldn’t call that 
torture, lust, you know, beingphysically persuasive. Those body- 
guards? Well, sure, they looked human to the sight, but they 
served that monster, and so they had to be taken out too - 
too 
bud for them, but that’s the pnce for picking the wrong side. 
Then all of a sudden comes the realization that what 
everyone claims to have been fighting for all along, 
namely humanity and the greater good, has slipped 
through their fingers in their haste to find ways to 
destroy that which they have come to hate. Or at 
least that’s what you’re afraid will happen, d your 
fellow imbued don’t take the time to stop and think 
about what they’re doing, or more importantly what 
they’ve become due to the choices they’ve made. 
And let’s not even get started on the subject of the 
monster that was nothing but friendly to you and was 
killed by some bullheaded “hero” who turned around 
and berated you for your “cowardice” in not killing 
your acquaintance.. . . 
How am I doing so far? Fortunately for all con- 
cerned, you and I are not alone, and what’s more we 
have no intention of letting the others off easy on the 
tough questions, at least not while we’re around. The 
others may look at us like we’ve lost our minds, but we know 
that we’re perhaps the most sane of all the imbued (if 
sometimes a little naive). It’s not a matter of complicated 
moral codes or belief in ancient prophecies or even some 
special gift we inherit from the touch of the Heralds. All it is 
is an unwillingness to simply assume that all monsters are bad, 
or for that matter that all humans (hunters included) are 
good. Simple enough, right? I mean, after all, you remember 
what you used to think about someone who judged others 
based solely on their skin color or ethnic background or 
religion? Chances are it wasn’t very nice, yet you’d be 
surprised how quick a lot of imbued are to apply drastic 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


labels to creatures just because they aren’t “normal,” or they assume that any and all 
actions are justified so long as they harm the enemy. What’s worse, some of them 
realize full well what they’re doing to themselves, but see it as the price they must pay 
to keep the rest of us safe. I don’t recall hearing anyone ask for that kind of protection, 
do you? Sure, we’ve been singled out, but if we start thinking that makes us innately 
superior to our fellow humans we’re heading right down Monster Street (I’m sure a few 
of them started with the best intentions too). It simply cannot be stressed enough - 
if we want to inherit the earth, we’d better make sure we don’t set ourselves up as the 
next set of tyrants when the monsters are gone, and that means never letting our ethics 
slide no matter how tempting it might be. 
Of course, as accepting as we are, we’re not stupid either - 
there are some 
mindless or utterly wicked creatures that need to be destroyed, although that’s the 
always-absolute-last option as far as I’m concerned. Put our backs to the wall or our 
friends in danger, and the response will probably surprise even the more jaded hunters 
out there. The difference with us is that we never, ever take a life - 
human or 
otherwise - 
and try to pretend that we haven’t lust put an end to someone’s hopes 
trace of intelligence left; it once was 
from that beginning it might have str 
dreams for the future, however far 
y that, but we make damn sure that 
can come from the 
conscience. 
bound to get better eventually. Trust me 
Weakness 
Oddly enough, for perhaps the most liberated of all our kind, we tend to have a 
problem with guilt second only to the truly self-destructive ones among us. Reasons 
vary, but generally it stems from the fact that no matter how nice and open-minded 
we are, sooner or later something comes along that forces us to go back on what we 
normally believe in, whether it’s helping to destroy a particularly nasty creature or 
even turn in one of our own gone rogue. Maybe you told a fellow hunter to stay his 
hand, and it turned out the monster went nuts and someone else wound up getting 
hurt. Just try to remember that nobody’s perfect, and that for all we learn about 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I i 
I 
I 
I 
ourselves and about the creatures, we’ve still got a long way to go before true 
understanding is possible. 
Sometimes the source of our woes is external - 
we take more than our fair share 
of abuse from our fellow imbued for the questions we pose, and a few of them have even 
used one of us as bait to draw creatures out in the open. Sometimes you’ll feel that 
you’ve seen too much suffering, done too many things to ever feel safe or sleep well 
again, and until you lift that weight you’ll be no good to yourself, let alone anyone else. 
Hunters like that tend to vanish an awful lot, and not all of them reappear later on. 
Or you might go the other way and mask your worries by pretending to be just like all 
the others in your group, try out a hard attitude and see how it feels to not ask too many 
questions when you’re out stalking some thing. Trust me, though, that’s not going to 
do you any good either, because you’re still the same person deep down, and the guilt 
from doing all the things you know aren’t right won’t go away just because you decided 
to do a Rumbo impression. 
My advice in both instances is to just seek out someone you feel you can talk to 
and chat for a while, or just cry if you have to. Nobody’s made of stone, least of all 
someone who tries to assume the best about everyone, and whoever says you don’t need 
to cry every once in a while is lying, pure and simple. 
Apocrypha 
As befits their name, Innocents generally have a fairly uncomplicated approach to 
the hunt; they don’t ask what (that’s Judges) or what if (that’s Visionaries), but simply 
why? Why does anything happen? Why do people worry about it so much? W h y  can’t 
monsters and humans coexist peacefully ?They also don’t tend to have very specific ideas 
about the Messengers, chalking them up to guardian angels, invisible friends, spiritual 
guides and so on. After all, isn’t it enough that they seem to want monsters and humans 
to reach an understanding? Does there have to be more to it than that? 
Gift 
Charms For the Defenseless 
One thing Innocents quickly learn is that their edges allow them a certain degree 
of protection from some of the worst the supernatural has to offer; however, along with 
this realization comes the knowledge that many of the people they care about are still 
vulnerable. Many Innocents therefore gift those they care about with small good luck 
charms and similar items, not realizing that in the process some of them are actually 
conferring a degree of extra protection to those they care about. Needless to say, an 
Innocent must have a deep personal bond with the recipient of one of these charms, 
although unfortunately even if she has such a relationship with a monster or fellow 
imbued she cannot give them a charm that passes on these benefits (though she can 
give one to a bystander). Those Innocents who have become aware of the possibility 
of these items see them as a special sign of hope that they’re on the right path, but for 
the most part they remain an unconscious blessing passed on by the simple act of their 
caring about the wearer. 
Note: A person cannot benefit from both an Innocent’s charm and a Defender’s 
token at the same time; they are powered by very different energies from individuals 
with very different perspectives on the hunt. 
System: An Innocent must have a minimum of three Traits in Mercy to possess 
the requisite understanding of the plight of the defenseless to create these charms, and 
she can never have more charms in play at one time than her Mercy rating. Creating 
an item requires the expenditure of the same number of levels of the appropriate Crafts 
Ability as the number of points she wishes the charm to possess, up to a maximum 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


number of Traits equal to twice her Mercy rating. This process takes at least one day 
per level of Crafts being spent, and may take much longer for especially powerful 
charms as the creator takes time to rest (and regain spent Crafts levels). Once created, 
a character cannot add more Traits to an item later even if her Mercy score increases, 
unless she takes the item and completely remakes it, including re-spending Convic- 
tion and Crafts levels. Finally, the charm requires the investment of 10 Conviction 
Traits before it can truly be finished. A charm only ever works for the person it was 
created for, and it has no special resistance to damage or loss, so a wearer must take care 
or risk losing its benefits to incautious chance. 
Once it is done, the Innocent may select a number of different benefits for the 
charm. Each benefit has a cost in Traits, although a charm may possess more than one 
of these benefits if the Innocent spends enough Traits. What follows is a list of 
common benefits (players may design others with Storyteller approval): 
Call- A charm with this benefit automatically alerts the Innocent if the wearer 
is ever targeted by supernatural powers (not edges), is scared or harmed by the 
supernatural, or if the charm is destroyed. The Innocent receives a rough idea about 
the nature of the threat and the wearer’s location, but that is all. For each Trait spent 
on this power, the call has a range of 10 paces, and a Narrator should be employed to 
seek out the Innocent as soon as the benefit is activated. Alternately, if the wearer is 
an NPC or otherwise not usually directly involved in play, the Storyteller may allow 
each Trait to represent a 10-mile radius for the call, to preserve game balance. 
Hint - 
Each Trait spent on this benefit effectively gives the wearer one level of 
the Awareness Ability solely for the purposes of detecting the presence of dangerous 
supernatural creatures or powers. These Ability levels can be spent like any others, in 
which case they are lost until the next session. The wearer does not necessarily realize 
exactly what is wrong with the person or item in question, but he receives a distinctly 
bad feeling about them and will avoid them or leave the area if possible. This benefit 
is useless if the wearer already has three or more levels of the Awareness Ability 
normally, although the Innocent may invest the charm with more than five levels of 
Awareness if she desires. 
Calm - 
A charm with this benefit allows its wearer to stay calm in the face of 
supernatural fear or other horrifying sights. She remains aware of the danger such 
threats pose, but she is calm and able to act normally for one round per Trait spent on 
this benefit, and she quickly forgets what she saw afterward (though she may well suffer 
mental or emotional problems if she witnessed something truly horrifying). 
Hide -This benefit allows the Innocent to impart a limited, unconscious form 
of the Hide edge to the wearer of the charm when he is threatened by Supernatural 
creatures. For every three Traits spent on this benefit, the wearer may gain the benefit 
of that edge once per day. If this invisibility is contested, use the Innocent’s Mental 
Traits plus her Mercy rating at the time the item was created to determine how many 
Traits the wearer has to resist. An Innocent must possess the Hide edge herself to create 
a charm with this benefit. 
Imbuing 
Very few Innocent imbuings involve violence, or if they do, it’s violence that isn’t 
actually what it appears to be for anyone who stops to look closely, such as a raging 
beast that is actually a skinchanger defending her cubs or a monster roughing someone 
up that turns out to be the creature protecting its neighbors from an extortion racket. 
Indeed, creatures that at first seem monstrous and frightening but actually prove quite 
harmless are a staple of Innocent imbuing. Those few who face an actual nasty dead- 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I i 
i 
I 
1 I 
set on inflicting maximum harm usually manage to talk them out of it or otherwise 
peacefully misdirect them, and while it may not always work the first time, that doesn’t 
mean an Innocent won’t try it again later. They are, after all, nothing if not optimistic. 
Camps 
Idealists - 
Monsters aren’t evil; in fact, those are just a couple of words people 
came up with to label things they didn’t like. In actuality, the world is full of the 
potential for good, if only people would stand up and start living right. These imbued 
shine like beacons to those inclined to believe their message of hope and love; more 
pragmatic imbued tend to think they have rocks in their heads. While these Innocents 
are not usually stupid by any means, it does take a certain amount of naIvet6 or sheer 
dedication to hang onto such a lofty ideal for long when faced with the truth of the 
world. 
Doubters - 
Many Innocents find themselves sliding toward this camp after 
some time in the field. While they stillusually believe in the inherent goodness ofmost 
people and the power of hope to change the world, they also know some truly terrible 
things and creatures or fellow hunters that defy any attempt to be cast in a positive 
light, and that knowledge has shaken their ideals a little bit. Each little victory or 
defeat for their beliefs pushes them toward one camp or another, though some manage 
to stay in this doubting position for quite some time. 
Jaded - 
Some would hesitate to call these imbued Innocents anymore, and truth 
be told it’s pretty tough to see on the surface at this point. Most have given up on 
finding the good in monsters as a general rule, but they still tend to have a particular 
creature (or type ofcreatures) that they hope will prove them wrong. For the most part, 
though, while they may give lip service to the ideals, they don’t really believe in them 
anymore. If monsters really are the victims of some kind of literal or metaphorical 
disease, as other Innocents often believe, then the jaded have come to the conclusion 
that the cancer is inoperable and it’s generally better to kill host and disease at the same 
time. 
i
a 
b 
11I
I 
Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Redemption 
Redeemers 
Some of our fellow hunters argue that no monster should be saved, that they’re 
all damned and we’re just doing a bit of long-overdue housecleaning by wiping them 
from the face of the earth. Another group seems to want none of the monsters 
destroyed, but rather they want to talk to them and be friendly so we can all start 
plumbing the great Secrets of the Universe together. With all the shouting they do at 
each other, maybe it’s not so surprising that none of them really seem to have given 
much thought to the fact that neither side is truly correct. That maybe there’s some 
middle ground where we can save the creatures worth saving, and fight the ones who 
deserve no better. Fortunately we’re here as living testament to this alternative, and 
while our results aren’t perfect, there are at least a few creatures who’ve been brought 
back into the fold who would have been destroyed otherwise, and that says something. 
After all, what would you rather have, a dead monster that’s no good to anyone, or a 
live one that’s been turned to our side (or least moved out of our 
That’s what I thought. 
Some call us evangelists, and while I won’t deny that we 
have perhaps more than our fair share of Christian clergy 
(including the fire-and-brimstone kind), it doesn’t take a cru- 
cifix around your neck to believe in being kind to everyone and 
helping others to seek the light of salvation. Nor must you 
believe in an actual Hell to hope that there’s some greater 
punishment waiting for those vicious beasts that leave a trail 
of bodies in their wake and openly defy the light of redemp- 
tion, though I myself must confess I pray nightly that such 
fiends are delivered to greater justice than I have at my 
command. And while I like the ring that “evangelist” has, not 
all of us are out there to make converts to our cause, unless 
you count them as leading by example. If I had to pick a 
better term to describe us, I’d have to go with “healers,” and 
I’ll tell you why: like doctors, we examine the ill (literally 
or figuratively) to see how to best treat their condition. 
Those who can be saved, we work our hardest to bring back 
to health, or at least make it so that they can return to society 
again. Those who cannot be saved, or who refuse our treatment 
entirely, we can only help to put out of their misery as quickly 
and humanely as possible. Of course, it seldom works out so 
cleanly in practice, but you get the idea. 
Indeed, it may be hard to reconcile such pretty words when 
you see one of us wade into a nest of depraved monsters with the 
rest of the team, guns blazing, then frantically stitch up a gravely 
wounded comrade and an innocent, injured creature at the 
same time. It may seem hypocritical that a group as obsessed 
with preserving and promoting life as ours can also commit so 
resolutely to battle, but you must remember that we do so 
because that is what our values demand from us. For ex- 
1i
1
i
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


@
-
,
I 
1 
I 
I i 
I 
t I 
ample, we love our pets and do everything we can for them, but if our dog becomes 
rabid, then it’s also our duty to put it down, no matter how much we might care for it. 
Is it the dog’s fault it contracted the disease! No, but that doesn’t make it any less 
dangerous to others. Nor should we do any less to try to keep the disease from spreading, 
once we know it exists, if only to keep others from having to go through the same 
trauma that we did. So following that analogy, what if monsters are just the result of 
a disease that we’re not aware of yet? You may scoff, but LS that really so improbable 
a notion considering all the things we’ve seen? Even if you don’t believe in an actual 
physical or spiritual contagion of some kind, it’s still a very useful metaphor for 
understanding how we view the task before us, especially when it comes to aiding those 
who deserve it. 
Don’t be mistaken, though -when 
we speak of redemption, we’re not talking 
solely in terms of the enemy. Not counting all the ordinary people in need of a second 
chance (or a final sentence), we see all too many of our own kind go bad from the 
pressures of the hunt. We offer them the same hope for redemption that we would offer 
anyone else, or perhaps more aptly the same consideration that we hope we would 
been time for o 
ssiahs who offer 
redemption and punishment have gradually become empty, self-serving mockeries of 
what our mission is all about. All too often, they attract small cults of impressionable 
bystanders and even some normal people who find comfort in having their questions 
about sin and salvation answered by a ready authority in this world. We must tread 
carefully when trying to bring such lost causes back into the fold, or risk a confronta- 
tion that all too often ends in tragedy. 
Another quieter but no less pervasive problem is that of simple greed; as the most 
likely of the imbued to develop healinggifts, many of us find ourselves tempted to start 
accepting money or recognition for our talents. You need not accept a vow ofpoverty 
when you follow the mission, at the same time beware of the slippery slope that follows 
after taking even the slightest donation for your gifts. After all, if you did so once, why 
i
b P 
I 
I 1
1I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


not again? Before you know it you’ve lost sight of the true calling in favor of becoming 
an infomercial celebrity or some millionaire’s personal faith healer. Even if you refuse 
the material rewards, it’s easy to bum out fast if your talents become too public, as you 
will quickly find yourself besieged by an endless stream of people with terrible 
afflictions and worthy causes, each expecting you to perform a miracle (and likely 
becoming quite agitated if you decline). While I’m not saying that you should let a 
person die if your gifts can make a difference, remember that you are still only one 
person and cannot be expected to heal the entire world alone, no matter what anyone 
else might say. 
Apocrypha 
Some Redeemers lean toward a more mystical or religious bent, and thus view 
their calling as a kind of final crusade to save the world from itself, whether it’s freeing 
souls from the grip of Hell, releasing positive spirits from negative energy fields, 
banishing the hungry ghosts that are eating the world and so on. Other Redeemers of 
a more scientific bent look at their calling as treating a literal or figurative contagion, 
and discuss things like contamination, treatment and deprogramming their subjects. 
Regardless of their background, all Redeemers share a common view: creation is 
headed straight for some giant disaster, and the problems and creatures they’re dealing 
with now are just the symptoms of this larger malaise. Whether or not they can prevent 
this catastrophe, or just try to spare as many people from the horror of it as possible, 
is a matter for individual Redeemers to decide, though as a rule their natural 
inclination to help makes them optimists, more often than not. 
Gift 
Holding Out Hope 
Redeemers learn that all too often an otherwise virtuous creature is undone in its 
quest for redemption by its unnatural appetites, and wish they had some way to replace 
a monster’s need for these energies. Some Redeemers are unwilling to leave such 
speculation in the realm of the abstract, however, and reasoning that since so many 
monsters seem to have an attachment to particular places or things from their previous 
lives, those same things might somehow be able to emotionally sustain them. While the 
search for these kinds of items isextremely demanding, and frequently carries a high level 
risk for the Redeemer and her companions, a successful result can net an item capable 
of sustaining a creature without it needing to prey on humans any longer - 
a powerful 
step in helping bring a monster back from the brink of damnation. Provided the 
Redeemer maintains his nurturing relationship with the creature afterward, helping her 
see the way back to the light seems to become easier as time goes on, as though the 
Heralds are rewarding these dedicated souls for undergoing their ordeal 
System: A Redeemer must have at least three Mercy Traits and one Vision Trait 
to be able to conduct a proper search and establish a bond between a creature and the 
item if it is found. Indeed, finding an item that will serve as a suitable source for a 
creature is a tricky process of exhausting research and investigation, which the 
Storyteller may rule requires a combination of intense roleplaying and a series of 
Mental Challenges with the appropriate Abilities to the Redeemer’s methods. Even 
a friendly creature might not know of an item that can be used in this fashion, and 
downright hostile ones will require that much extra research to find something that 
they might find acceptable. Obviously, such searches are the stuff of multiple sessions 
or even an entire chronicle, and the Storyteller is under no obligation to drop the 
ancient wedding ring a bloodsucker once owned into your character’s hand just 
because he feels he’s eamed the chance to create an alternative source for the beast. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I*&--- 
~ 
c 
i 
I 
i 
I 
Fortunately, a Redeemer can instinctively recognize on sight whether or not an item 
is suitable for this kind of bond, so once he has it in hand he can tell if he found the 
right object or not. Of course, convincing the creature to use the source of its own free 
will is another question entirely.. .. 
Once the Storyteller decides a proper source has been found, the Redeemer must 
spent five Conviction Traits preparing it as an alternative to the creature’s normal 
sustenance; once those Traits are spent, if the creature accepts the source it may begin 
drawing energy from it in lieu of its regular feeding habits. It may draw energy of the 
appropriate type (Willpower, Blood, Rage, Pathos, Glamour, Quintessence, etc.) from 
the source every 24-hour period, up to a maximum number of energy Traits equal to 
the Redeemer’sMercy rating. Every time the creature uses the source, however, it feels 
a washofguilt about past inhumandeeds coupled with apositive feeling about previous 
or ongoing efforts to retain its humanity, which it should roleplay accordingly. This 
surge of emotion is clearly the result of “feeding” from the source, but also clearly not 
an attack or invasive phenomena either, so most creatures will not necessarily 
immediately seek to protect themselves from it. A monster is considered have a Trait 
penalty equal to the Traits it received from the source on all efforts to directly or 
indirectly harm humans or hunters, even in a frenzy state, reflecting its intense guilt 
and aversion to doing so. (This penalty does not apply to self-defense or any attacks 
made against other monsters.) Willpower may be spent to overcome this penalty for 
a scene, but doing so requires a number of Willpower Traits equal to the penalty before 
it is lifted. Finally, the Redeemer is up a number of Traits equal to his Mercy rating on 
all friendly Social Challenges with the creature, reflecting his increased ability to 
communicate with it in a positive manner. 
A creature may only benefit from one source at a time, and each source only 
functions for its original intended recipient. There is no limit to how many sources a 
Redeemer can create, but should he fail to maintain an active and positive relationship 
with a source’s owner it will quickly fail; most Redeemers are wary ofcreating too many 
such items for fear of not having enough time to tend to all their recipients. Likewise, 
a creature that is actively hostile toward the Redeemer cannot benefit from a source, 
and it immediately stops functioning if the monster takes action against its benefactor, 
though it might begin working again if the Redeemer forgives the creature. A 
Redeemer can innately tell if acreature stops using asource, though he gains no further 
information about it. As a whole, Storytellers should take great care to make sure that 
these items are an important roleplaying tool for those who use them, and not just 
created as batteries for a character’s favorite supernatural buddies. 
Imbuing 
Redeemer imbuing often resemble emergency room triage more than anything 
else: who’s injured, who needs help and who’s too far gone to be saved. Of course, it 
need not just he humans who require their healing presence. Quite a few Redeemers 
talk about seeing enough good in a creature’s soul to spare its life, although conversely 
there are some whose experience was with monsters who were too far gone or in so 
much pain their only choice was to put them down as mercifully as possible. Some find 
themselves forced to talk down a monster from some terrible deed and steer it toward 
the true path, putting their faith in redemption between themselves and a terrible fate 
at the creature’s hands. Regardless of the circumstance or what her instincts might lead 
her to do, the theme is the same: the Redeemer encounters a situation with the 
supernatural and her first response is How can I help? 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


-a* 
Camps 
Conservative - 
Redeemers of this persuasion are theoretically sympathetic to 
anyone who needs help, but in practice often focus their efforts solely on the humans 
and human victims they come across. There are simply too many people in need of aid 
for them to worry about monsters for now; in short, they subscribe to a “let’s clean own 
our house first before we worry about the neighbors” ideal as opposed to more universal 
displays of benevolence. A few even confine their attentions entirely to their fellow 
imbued, on the theory that given the limited resources available, putting other imbued 
back on their feet does more for the world than saving folk who haven’t seen the truth. 
They are also the Redeemers most likely to actively track down monsters they see as 
beyond saving, since creatures aren’t high on their priority list to begin with. 
Moderate - 
While these Redeemers share quite a few features with their 
conservative comrades - 
most notably their emphasis on giving other hunters 
priority for treatment - 
they differ sharply in that they cannot sit idly by while a 
monster they believe to be salvageable is destroyed. Although they still recognize that 
evil must be destroyed for the greater good, they will go to substantial lengths to 
contact and counsel suchcreatures. Strong team players, they tend to look on members 
of other creeds with respect, believing that all have their part to play, even if it’s not 
always agreeable or easily understood. 
Liberal -These 
healers whole-heartedly embrace the idea of redemption, even 
going so far as to believe that any past crimes, no matter how hideous, should be 
forgiven if a monster truly seeks repentance. Many of these Redeemers see themselves 
as much as a general force for reconciliation as they are healers and confessors, and they 
oppose killing even the most depraved creatures if another option exists, however 
slight it might be. Needless to say, this willingness to put themselves between other 
hunters and their intended prey often earns them enemies with adherents of Zeal and 
other hard-liners, who openly call them traitors and shun their company whenever 
possible. 
Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Marfyrlem 
Martyrs 
It’s all over. 
Perhapsyouhaven’tnoticed,butth~worldisn’tinterriblygoodshaperightnow 
and, in 
thenext 10 minutes, it’sgoing toget that much worse ina thousanddifferentways. We’ve got 
cnme and corruption running rampant throughsociety, children are settling playground fights 
withpistols, warandterrorismare the intemationalcurrencyandourownplanet isstartlngto 
poisonusbackfor allthe abusewe’veheapedonit.Yesindeed, itwas alllookingprettygrim 
forhumanityasawhole,untilsuddenlytheHeraldsopenedyoureyesandyoubeheldthe 
truth 
--It’s 
e m m e  than youeverimagmedout there! Monsterslurklxyondtheedgeofhumansight, 
stopping only as long as it takes to brutalize and victimize the humans around them before 
returning to their inhuman practices. They have their claws intoevetything, from the comer 
store tothe Capitol building, and many ofthem are surrounded by legionsofnorrnalpeople who 
eithercrave theirunholypowersorare toostupid tonotice whatthey’rereally 
workingfor. Anyonewhostandsintheway ofthecreatures’monolithic, 
self+destructive 
j uggemaught of a society gets broken down and tossed 
aside likesomuchgarbage -hell, people likeususuallyfoundthat out 
thehad way, evenbeforewewere imbued, just because ofnaturallove 
ofallkindsofhope1esscauses.Youcan’t 
run, youcan’thide, 
can’t fight backunless you want to look forward to areally ago 
death in your future. So why does anyone bother doing 
anything at all? 
Theynevercountedonpeople like youand me. 
Yousee, unfortunatelyfor those creatures out there, 
there’sawhole lot ofus whodon’t mind the painone bit, who 
can’twaittolaydownourlives ifit meansgiving theothers 
ashot at turning back the hands ofthe doomsday clock. And 
we’renot just talking the talk, either-we’llgive 
up anything 
and everything for the cause, from the shoes on our feet to the 
moneyinthebanktoourverysoulsifitmeansmovingthemission 
forward. Volunteering for the most dangerous raids, the most 
demandinglabor,themostthanklessjobs-allinaday’sworkfor 
us, and youcanbetwe’ll be backandbegging for the same the next 
day. Some ofthe othersmayquestionoursanity, but they never 
questionourdedication, and they neverworry whenone ofus is 
guardingtheir backs, because they know we’lltake a bulletoraclaw 
for them without hesitation. Sure, it’s true that all imbued make 
sacrifices, buttherestofthemdoitwhenthere’snootherchoice; 
we 
give of ourselves and our supplies without thmking, because it seems 
like the right thing todo. Ofcourse, there are limits-whileeventhe 
best ofus has thoughts about what it must be like to put all this misery 
toanend, I’ll be the first tospitonthegraveofanyonewhotakesthat 
easyway outwithout achievinganythingofvalue in the process. Just 
becauseyou’rewillingtodieforthecausedoesn’tmeanyou’rerequired 
to. 
Ifall thissounds a littleexmme, well, it is-weare, after all, talkii 
aboutpeople whoalmost lookfonvard tofightingmonsters that would 
i
b P 
I 
1 I 
1 
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


drivemost people insane just by lookingat them. Inourdefense, wedon’tknow any otherway 
than togiveofourselvesuntilwecangivenomore, thoughthereasonsthls lsso tend to be quite 
differentfromperson toperson. For some, that stems fromachildhood ofdeprivation, where 
theywereexpectedtoacceptsacnficesforthegoodofthewholefamily;forothers, 
thesuffering 
is penance for asin,realor imagined; andfor some, it’ssimple perfectionism,giving ofyourself 
becausedeepdown youdon’t trust anyoneelse todo itnght. In theend, though, it allboilsdown 
to one thing: we not only need to live thls way, wethnveonit too, asdlsturblng as that may sound. 
Like earn mg ascar, thesuffenngwe endure on the hunt is proofthat we’vedonesomethmgreal, 
somethingthatwill have alastingresultevenifwearen’tthere tosee it.Whetherit’sanactua1 
physicalscar or just astorywe never tireof tellmg, suchmarksareremlofwhat themwion 
means tous, thatkeepourspiritsupevenifourworldcomesdownaroundus. 
Aslong as we’re 
stillbreathing,nomatterwhathappenswecanlookbackonwhatwelivedthroughandsay 
thatwe were there, thatwesurvivedandmostofallthatwedidn’tdoltfornothing. 
Yeah, I guess we do sound pretty dramatic when you put it that way, but youknow what, 
ifthat’s the only price I everhave to pay for what Ido, I’lldie avery happy man. Inthemeantime, 
let theotherssaywhat theywillabouthow wemustbecrazytovolunteerforallthe lobsand 
tobeonhand.Sacnficmgfor 
es you feelgoodor impresses 
gets agoldstarforputting herselfon the line for no good reason. Ifyou still really feel like taking 
yourselfout, atleasthavetheguts totell your team first sothey canprepare for life without you. 
You may havesufferedalot, but they’re the oneswho’llsuffermore after you’re gone, soshow 
themsome respect andmake yourpassingcount. 
Oh, and remember that while everyone admires our willingness do anything for our 
comrades togetthejobdone,wearen’tanygoodtoothersifwe’refallingtopiecesourselves. 
Youknow the type I’m talking about-theydon'tactuallywant todo themselvesinjustyet, 
but they’lldo extreme thingslike sellall their possessionsfor ammo, giveup regular meals to 
extendtheteam’srationsandsoon.Noblemotives,sure, 
butbeforelongthey’reactuallymore 
ofadrainonthe teamthanaboon,smcetheystartdependlngonus tohelp themwhenthey’re 
brokeorfalllngoverwithillness, andwho thehellhavetheyreallyhelpedthen?Anytime 
you 
seeone ofusdoingsomuchforothersthathe’snotreallyfunctioninghimself, 
takehimaside 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I 
andremindhimthat asmuchasit mightbenice tothinkaboutgivingupeverything to help 
theteam,he’sevenmorevaluablewhenhe’sready to contribute 100% tothecause. Ifall you 
get isablanklookinreturn, thenyou’llknowyouhaveaproblemcaseonyourhands. 
Apocrypha 
Martyrshavemoredifferent theoriesabout thestateofthe world thanperhapsanyother 
creed, save Visionaries, but they are fairly universal in that they all recognize that agreat 
cataclysmisonitsway,andhuntersare 
theonlyones withachance tostop it.Exactlyhow it 
mustbedoneorwhowillbesavedintheenddepends onwhichMartyryou’re talking to, but 
mostofthemagree thatthedisasterwillonlybeavertedbyhuntersingenera1,andMartyrsin 
particular, making some kindofultimate Sacrificeon humanity’s behalf. This is, ofcourse, 
assuming that this cataclysm can be halted to begin with- Martyrs tend to he apretty 
pessimistic group, after all. 
AlargelyunspokenbutpowerfullinkalsoexistsbenveenhowMartyrsview monsters in 
relation to themselves. They honestly sympathize with them, thoughmost other creeds 
prohablywouldn’tbelieve it tosee their fanaticalactions in the field. But Martyrs arecounted 
among the Merciful preciselybecause theyrecognize what little humanityremains inmost 
creaturesisn’t toofarawayfromwhattheythemselvesmightbecomeoneday,andsotheyhave 
empathy for the pain monsters endure because it is a burden they also share. Unlike other 
Merciful, however, Martyrs take theseemotionsanduse it tofuel theirdevotion forthe hunt 
insteadoftheir desire to reachout tothe other side, as their understanding of the depths aspirit 
cansink togives themnothingbut contemptforthosewhouseit asanexcuse toslaughter 
innocents andcommit evilacts 
Gift 
Take of Me and Live 
As Martyrs learnmore about the missionandthe role that their sacrifice is meant toplay, 
asmallnumberofthemrealize thattheirdeepdesire toaidothenregardlessofcost tothemselves 
can be used to actually blur the line between “self) and “other,”establishing a bond that 
transcends distance to offer aid whenanotherpersonneeck it most. These Martyrs instinctively 
realize that by making asymblic sacrifice and entering into asolemn oathor pact witha person 
orgroup, theycanactuallylendsuchrecipients their strength when that oathis threatened, 
thoughnaturallynotwithoutsomecostto 
themselves. WhetherMartyrswouldhave it any 
otherway, however, isamatteroflittledebate-oncetheyareawareofthispotentialwithin 
themselves, few Martyrs hesitate to make this kind of soul bond to another. 
Note: Remember that all therulesofMind’sEyeTheatrearestil1 
ineffectduringsuch 
ceremonies; while they should be deep and wonderful role playing experiences, the normal rules 
about no touching andsoonstillapply. 
System: A Martyr must have at least one VisionTrait before this kind ofaccord is truly 
possible, andshecanneverhavecommunionwithmorepeopleorhunters 
thanshehasMerq 
Traits. Every Martyr has herownriteforenactinganoath, but it must involve some sacrifice 
ordiscomfortonthe partofall participants: cuttingpalmsandclaspinghands, getting identical 
tattoos or body piercing, taking new names together, destroyingtreasuredpossessions, 
fasting 
or exposure to the elements, etc. Some also involve groupprayelsorchants, whileothersfavor 
extended discussions about friendship or times spent together in the past, andstill others simply 
sit insilent communion with theiroathmates. At some point duringthe rite, the Martyr must 
alsostate the termsofthe blessing that she wishes toshare withtheothers: “Mystrengthbe with 
youwhenever youfight theenemy,”“Ifyou’reeverafraid, 
justthinkofme,”orevenjust“I’lI 
neverletharmcometoyouaslongasIdrawbreath.”Providedtheothersagreetothiscompact, 
the rite is fiiished and thebond isestablisheduntil theMartyr’sdeathor either sidelater chooses 
i
b P 
E 
1I 
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
4-4- 
todissolve thebondoftheirownfreewill.AMartyrmayonlyhaveonetypeofbond 
witha 
particular individual at a time. 
Any time thereafter that one of the members is in need, he may draw on the Martyr’s 
strength, taking one ofhisConvictionTraits andeither using it asareteston asingle challenge 
or replenishing a lost Willpower Trait, as he desires. Imbued may also choose to take one 
ConvictionTrait andspend it as though it were their own for purposes ofusing edges, activating 
thesight andsoon. OnlyoneTraitmaybe takenperround, and allConvictionTraits taken 
inthis fashionare immediately lostbytheMartyr, althoughshe isautomatically awareofwho 
neededthem (thoughnot where they are orwhy); ifthe Martyr isout ofConvictionTraits, then 
thebonddoesnotwork,andthe 
targetknowsonlythattheMartyr’sstrengthhasbeensapped. 
Thisbonddcesnotworkinreverse-theMartyrcannotborrowtheirstrength, onlylendher 
own. The only stipulation on this exchange is that any Traits takencandy be used for actions 
directlyrelatedtothevow theMartyrmadeduringthecommunion. For instance,apersonthe 
Martyrswore toprotectmayusethebondfordefensivepurposesany timehe’s indanger, while 
anothertheMartyrpledgedtohelpdestroymonsterscoulduseitoncombattests. 
AsaNarrator 
isrequiredtoactasgo-betweentogetthe 
requiredTraitsfromtheMartyrwhenthisbondis 
established, he is the fiial judgeofwhether ornot thesituation isappropriate touse thebond. 
Martyr imbuings are usually asstraightforward as they are brutal, with relentless monsten 
inflictingagonyafteragonyonthenew1yimbuedMartyrevenassherise.s time andagain to meet 
itheadon.Theirabi1itytoshrugasidepainforthesakeofothersisputto 
the test inthemost 
excruciating andhideouswaysimaginable, andquite afewofthemnevermake it. Thosethat 
dooftendrawresolvefromthememoriesofthetriumphs 
(orfailures) thattheyhadduringtheir 
imbuing, wearing their scars as badgesofhonor against the night. 
Imbuing 
camps 
Militant-Muchlikehardcore Avengers, withwhomthey frequently associate, these 
Martyrs take the war against the supernatural to bloody extremes; unlike their comrades, 
however, these imbued have little perspective on how much is too much as far as giving up is 
concerned. Many convert all theirworldly possessions to hunting gear, flee their families or 
other close relations and give themselves exclusively to the hunt in ways even other imbued 
oftenseeasextreme.Mostdon’tlastlong, 
as theirurgentneedtodoall theycanforthecause 
puts themon thefrontline timeaftertimeuntil their luckrunsout, but thosewhomake it 
through their early days often find themselves either changing camps to a more moderate 
position.. . orabandoningsanity altogether. 
Reluctant-Rather thanserve fromasem ofpressing needor generalobligation, as their 
fellowsdo,theseMartyrsoftentakeontheirjobbecausetheyfeellikenooneelsewill(orthey 
trustnoone todoitright). Theyrarelyhaveabigcausetheybelievein, 
aparticularflag they 
rallyround-theysimplyknowwhatthey’redoingisright, andleave itatthat.Theirsacrifices 
comebecause they know nobetter way toget thingsdone, andwhile theyseldomcall attention 
totheir suffering or theextratasks they takeon, theycanbequiteshortwiththose whomthey 
perceive as unwilling to make the same kind of sacrifices as they have. 
Idealist-These Martyrs subscribe to thenotion that all imbued are martyrs by nature 
-why else would theyhavebeenchosen tobeartheweightoftheworld?They thereforeseek 
to downplay their own sacrifices as much as possible, leading other hunters by example and 
hoping that some oftheir ideas aboutgivingup thingsfor the greatergood sinks in. They are 
likelytoworkinateamofotherwisedissimilar imbued,smoothingoverdifferencesand 
taking 
extra tasks toshow their fellow imbued that it isnot only possible to cooperate but necessary 
ifthe imbuedare toget anythingoflasting importancedone. 
Starting Conviction: 4 
i
1
I
I
1
1
I
I
i
1
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
1 
I 
I 
I 
Yisivn 
Visimaries 
I know what you’re worried about, so don’t worry, I’m not here to judge you or the 
ideas you’ve been talking about on hunter-net. Actually, I find some of your 
suppositions quite brilliant, though I was wondering if you’d had a chance to read some 
of what witness1 has written on the subject of - 
what’s that? 
Oh! Right! I’m sorry, how rude of me. My mind tends to 
t wander, and my mouth has no trouble keeping up, so you’ll 
L have to pardon the occasional digression. You asked me to 
\ come because you want to know more about how you got to 
be the way you are, after all, not to hear my latest musings 
‘ 
on the state of the cosmos. So from this point on I’ll try my 
best to answer your questions with a minimum of extrane- 
ous information. How does that sound? I thought that 
, might be more to your liking. So. . where do I start? 
Perhaps it would be best to start things by going 
back to the original question you no doubt asked 
when you first saw the monsters: What’s going on’ 
And when I say that, I know that you know I’m not 
referring to the more direct form of that question 
that all of the imbued ask, the version that can be 
answered with simple facts When people like us 
ask that question, we’re not only wondering about 
the Immediate state of affairs but the grander 
purpose behind it all, even ifwe don’t realize it at 
the time. We’re not content to learn the simple 
details like who we’re fighting against - 
we’re 
wondering why there’s a battle going on to begin 
with, and we’re not satisfied with pat answers 
from religion, science or conspiracy theories. As 
soon as we have a chance to process the shock of 
the imbuing, the questions really start going: Are 
we supposed to fight? Do our choices now con- 
demn us in the eyes of the Heralds or other beings we 
can’t perceive, or are we the champions of this unseen 
race? Are we imbued by accident, or are we really all 
hand-picked by some outside force? Is there some cos- 
mic aspect to our war, or is it simply a Darwinian struggle 
to see which organisms are best adapted to continue? 
What about our enemies - 
where did they come from? 
Did they receive their powers from the Heralds as well, 
if not, how did they get them? What if they’re the ones 
who bestowed our powers on us, only to find we’ve 
proven to be Oedipal children? What is the line 
between human and monster? And so on - 
you get 
.f”_ 
I 
L 
, 
the idea. 
i
b P 
I 
I 1
1I
t,
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


At this point you’re probably saying to yourself, well, of course I have those kinds 
of questions, but so does every other imbued I know. Well, yes and no. Personally, I’ve 
known some I doubt would be able spell all the words I just used, let alone care what 
they meant, but even assuming we give everyone the benefit of the doubt and say that 
all hunters have wondered about such things at one time or another, we’re the only 
ones who actually do our best to seek out the answers instead of just forgetting them 
and returning to the task at hand. As strange as it may sound, we alone remain 
committed enough to our search for the truth to keep from focusing too much on the 
day-to-day and forget the long-term. While we can never totally ignore the needs of 
the present, or lose the confidence of our fellows entirely, we must always keep a sense 
of perspective, looking for t 
That also means wh 
ctical to our teams when it comes time 
to plan the latest raidq w 
in gold when the time comes (and it 
go on, or what it is that they’re spilled 
don’t think philosophy was invented 
en for what they ne 
ure even as we move through the everyday. 
by accident, do you? It may go a bit too 
humanity always comes back to it, if on 
going on that dark night of the soul. Iathis we resamble the more innocent amorigour 
ranks, but while their answers are specifically designed to settle the minds of tharr 
companions, the fact that our theories and investigations 
gravy - 
the truth is all thatEally matters. Sometimes tha 
answers we find are anythfng but calming, but we push on 
condition might be losf forever in the rush to battle by bot 
look at the creat 
imhiied as the bir 
, 
They were sources of great 
ge because they had to be. This is 
e might question the nature of the 
conflict and the players participating in it, we can’t deny that a desire to act runs deep 
in all imbued. In this you’ll find perhaps the greatest Cest for those who choose to seek 
answers above all else - 
taking our questions and Theories and learning how to apply 
the answers we find to change the wo 
Sounds like a challenge? Well, he 
some time soon. 
Weakness 
Like most thinkers, we’re not wit 
still find the most eccentric of us better company rhansnrne of the gun-toting lunatics 
who call themselves our allies. Worst of these is letting your pride get in the way of the 
quest for truth - 
usually this happens when some of us are lucky enough to find a few 
answers early on their career, and then they start assuming that their particular vision 
was the right path to follow. Not necessarily a bad thing, but sometimes early success 
means that these folks don’t keep looking or testing their own assumptions, and they 
get tangled up in their own pride, refusing to consider any facts that don’t fit their 
narrow view of the world. It’s one thing to hold true to a single ideal, but another to 
deny the evidence that points in another direction, or assume that you have some 
special wisdom that others lack which lets you decide the difference. The best way to 
avoid this is to keep a good amount of emotional and objective distance from the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


information you find, especially when dealing with a personal theory. Always keep 
perspective! 
Another pitfall are those who decide that the hunt itself is wrong, and swear not 
to take part in it until they see evidence that says otherwise. While I admire their 
conviction and endorse their right to follow where their conscience leads them, the 
same is not always true for other imbued, who often see this as treason and react 
accordingly. Therefore, while I don’t condemn the decision, I suggest that those who 
want to do so start by telling their colleagues well in advance, the better to defuse the 
situations that will happen when they actually decide to have no further role in the 
hunt. 
Last but not least is the matter of hallucinogens and other illegal (or at least 
intoxicating) substances; I myself have never used such tools, but there are some who 
swear by them. If you decide to use this to explore our new condition, remember that 
the authorities are not usually very understanding that you just had to take a hit to 
understand more about the monsters around us, and a long trip to prison will put your 
research on a long hiatus. What’s more, you’re a liability to your teammates if your 
head’s fuzzy in the middle of combat, so please have the sense to do this when you’re 
not going to be seeing action. 
Apocrypha 
Some oftheothercreedslike to joke that ifyouask 10Visionariesabouttheorigin 
of the imbued, you’ll get at least 11 different answers. While this isn’t to say that there 
aren’t Visionaries who agree on different points or even pursue a particular ideal or 
theory together, as a rule their notions of why they have been chosen and what lies in 
store are more varied than any other creed. Many Visionaries change their big ideas 
and underlying suppositions on a fairly regular basis as they encounter new ideas and 
incorporate them into their worldview, though the perception of this by other imbued 
as fickleness isn’t quite accurate either. Visionaries believe very passionately in what 
they hold as truth; it’s just that unlike most people, they’re willing to accept that they 
might have been wrong about what they believed in the past, and thus their constant 
state of intellectual flux. Beneath it all they do recognize one common thread: each 
imbued must discover his own purpose, as only when they truly know themselves will 
they truly be able to change the world for the better. If working toward that goal takes 
them down so many different paths, then so be it. 
Gift 
Symbols of the Cause 
Although they were some of the first imbued to make widespread the mysterious 
symbols that have become known as the hunter code, many Visionaries were still 
frustrated by the fact that while this secret language could be an invaluable tool, it was 
still limited to conveying simple concepts of one or two words at most. Recently, 
however, other imbued have begun to notice strange symbols appearing more often, 
which seem to impart a whole outlook or philosophy on the hunt to those who look 
at them. They appear to be derived from the hunter code, but also remain unique unto 
themselves, as though a combination of that universal language with a personal ideal 
of some kind- which is precisely what they are intended to be. Those few Visionaries 
who have learned the gift of crafting these special “mission symbols” are just beginning 
to realize the potential they have, but their ability to rally other imbued and 
communicate a great deal of information quickly is already stirring up excitement in 
those who know of their existence. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


System: AVisionarymusthave aminimumofthreeVisionTraits tocreate aquest 
symbol, as well as have heard of the process before (or spent enough time agonizing 
about how to communicate her message to others that the Storyteller rules it at last 
occurs to her naturally). Naturally, she must also have a clear mission or philosophy 
regarding the hunt that she passionately believes in as well; mere theories or notions 
of others are insufficient to carry the power of such a symbol. This mission should be 
written down in a sentence or two and approved by the Storyteller during the creation 
process, which requires 10 Conviction Traits to invest the symbol and takes a 
minimum of 10 weeks of in-game time as well (no more than one Trait per week). 
Assuming that such conditions are met, the Visionary has crafted her own symbol, 
which not only helps spread her message but also allows her a number of special 
advantages when placed it on a person or location. It should be noted that while any 
of her symbols can be understood by other imbued, only copies done by her own hand 
(even if only drawing on someone for a tattoo artist to trace) carry the benefits of 
insight outlined below. A Visionary may only have as many of these “active” symbols 
at one time as she has Vision Traits; while more copies can be made, they do not carry 
the benefits outlined below. Preferably, symbols should be placed a subject or surface 
permanently; symbols that come off a person or are removed or defaced on a surface 
cease conveying information back to the Visionary. They must be clearly visible as 
well, either prominently tattooed on a person or featured in a significant spot at a 
location, otherwise the symbol confers no special benefits. 
If the quest symbol is placed on a person, the Visionary instinctively knows if he 
begins to have doubts about the mission, or if he has just performed some great feat in 
its name. Placed at a location, the Visionary receives a warm feeling when followers 
who support the cause are there, but feels a chill or some other ominous sign if they 
are arguing or otherwise unsure of the cause. A Narrator should relate such informa- 
tion to the Visionary as soon as possible, as distance between the two parties is no 
obstacle. Followers are not necessarily aware of the fact that these images convey 
information to the Visionary, but though those that are aware can temporarily block 
the transmission of information for a scene if they desire by spending a Willpower Trait 
and covering the symbol. In addition, a Visionary may revoke the benefits of any of 
her symbols at any time, such as if afollower deserts the cause or a location is destroyed, 
and any symbols are automatically deactivated if the Visionary ever abandons her big 
idea - 
if that is the case, those wearing the symbol or at a location that bears one feel 
achill in their heart and a sense of disillusionment in the cause, though whether or not 
they continue to uphold it is up to them. Should she wish to create a new symbol for 
a different cause at a later date, she must perform the creation process anew. 
Imbuing 
Visionary imbuings tend to be quite unique, even for such a singular event as an 
imbuing, and very few of them have much in common besides the fact that they all 
required the Visionary to think on her feet and come up with an creative solution to 
the problem before her. For example, one Visionary might have tricked a foul creature 
into destroying itself, while another might have talked her way out of being annihi- 
lated just long enough to find an escape route. Very few Visionary imbuings involve 
head-onfighting, and even if they do, it tends to be left up to the Visionary to find some 
way to stop the rampaging beast without resorting to violence as well. 
Camps 
Single-Minded - 
As the name implies, this label describes Visionaries who have 
adopted one idea, or perhaps a tightly knit group of ideas, as their pet theory and now 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


pursue it to the exclusion of all else. On the positive side, this makes them very 
knowledgeable in their particular field; on the negative side, it closes them off to new 
ideas or even most criticism, as they tend to react poorly if their pet project is 
questioned in any way. They will gladly go on at length about their project’s virtues 
to others around them, and when they feel it is “ready” they can be quite persuasive 
about acquiring followers to help them impose their will on the world. Obsessedas they 
are with fixing the smallest details of their masterpiece, they often develop problems 
keeping their eye on the larger picture, although time spent with fellow Visionaries 
can sometimes gently prod them back into line. 
Pragmatic -The 
most groundedVisionaries, these thinkers haven’t abandoned 
their search for truth by any means, but chances are in the past they’ve had at least one 
bad experience they blame on being too detached from the world, and as a result 
they’ve promised never to stray that far from the everyday again. They see the hunt 
as a constant struggle to bring their dreams to life, and work hard to spread their ideas 
in hopes of attracting others who can help them work bigger changes as a group. 
Dedicated to their ideals, but flexible enough to remember that new events and 
discoveries can change what they previously held to be true, these Visionaries are 
perhaps those best-suited to positions of leadership, as they plan well over the long 
term without completely forgetting about the needs of the present. 
Open-Minded - 
Colleges would call these Visionaries “undecided”; while they 
may have a few ideas that they like, they have yet to develop a big idea of their own 
that they can really get behind, and so they’re still drifting for now. Voracious gatherers 
of information, they tend to stay near the back of a larger group, analyzing data that 
is collected and otherwise taking a “support” role in the daily activity of their team. 
When and if they finally find an idea they like, they generally shift to one of the other 
two camps as they follow the course of their investigation. A few Visionaries fall back 
to this outlook later in their careers, having seen their ideas come crashing down and/ 
or deciding that it is still too soon in the lifespan of the imbued for anyone to develop 
an kind of far-reaching theory about what their role might be. 
Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


t 
Deviance 
Waywards 
It all began as rumors, and for the most part it’s stayed that way, though the secret 
is starting to fray around the edges. First an imbued withstrange tattoos shows up here, 
filling everyone with the righteous fury of the hunt before vanishing back into the 
night, leaving a bloody battle as their calling card. A raid gone wrong, the others say. 
Sad, but it happens. Then from the city just across the river comes a horror story about 
a crazed hunter who shot up an entire restaurant just to get at one monster, killing 
dozens of normal people in the process. A maniac, totally out oftouch with 
the mission, they whisper, but the fear is there, forming in the back of 
their minds ... along with recognition. A kindly imbued known for 
preaching tolerance and compassion to all is found brutally slaugh- 
tered, symbols from the hunter code scrawled all around the body in 
the victim’s blood. Who inGod’s name could have done this? they cry, 
and in that moment they feel our presence at last, wolves 
among these weaklings who will not follow their ap- 
1 
pointed destiny. What kind of animal are we dealing with 
here? 
1 
Animals, indeed. 
Many of the others have theories about the fact 
that we “imbued” are chosen ones of one variety or 
another; indeed, they spend a pathetic amount of time 
arguing about such things, time that would be better 
spent doing the work we’re intended for. With us, 
however, there are no such foolish questions - 
we 
have been chosen to eradicate all forms of monsters 
from this earth and reclaim it for humanity once more. 
Who chose us is irrelevant; the mission is clear, the 
enemy made plain to our sight. W h y  else would we 
have been given the powers we have, if not to fight 
back? I can see from your eyes that this truth is obvious 
to you as well. That’s good. You have all the makings of a true 
soldier for the Lord; all that’s necessary is to get you some 
experience in the field, and you will be truly qualified to take 
your place in our ranks. 
Unfortunately, however, there are still too few who have 
seen the truth as clearly as we have. The prison that the 
hellspawn have created for our world is not simply a physical 
one, but one of the mind as well, and the enemy has had many 
years to perfect it. Our fellow humans are taught to love those 
who oppress them, to forgive and step back instead of stand 
up for themselves, and sadly even the revelation of our true 
destiny doesn’t always break the monsters’ hold on some 
imbued. These weaklings receive their glorious, God-given 
powers and then turn around and waste them on pointless 
endeavors or even- in the ultimate sacrilege -use them 
to help the very monsters they were meant to destroy! 
c 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
I 
Such traitors seem to be in never-ending supply, but what is worse is how seductive 
their words can be to those who have not yet fallen to their level, sometimes even to 
those who think themselves soldiers of the Lord. Frightened of the responsibility they 
have been chosen for and long since brainwashed into believing they need reasons and 
explanations for everything, these lost imbued flock to such blasphemers and false 
prophets in sinful numbers, heedless that the path to Hell is ever that which seems 
easiest and most pleasing. Sadly, their minds are poisoned against our pleas for them 
to see the trap they have fallen into, to repent and take up the path we are destined 
to lead them down, and that means we must treat them the same way any other army 
treats traitors in its midst. It saddens us to do so, but if we are to sweep the corruption 
from the world, we cannot risk having some of our own kind turn on us to protect the 
very enemy that is eating their souls daily. 
For example, I once knew a young woman who claimed to possess a devout faith 
in our Lord, and for the first few nights we fought side by side against the darkness, 
trusting in our faith to guide us as we destroyed a nest of bloodsuckers that had 
terrorized our small town. However, not long after we had moved to the city to search 
for more of the creatures, she fell in with group of others who also claimed to trust in 
the Lord, but whom I later discovered ran a small shelter that housed monsters they 
berated me for destroying an 
d come across. She 
claimed that if we were truly 
and care for our enemies, to t 
t the Lord made no 
enough yet, Wayward 
t their fellow imbued h 
the infinite hatred of the Messengers have for the enemy forcing its way into a fragile, 
finite human mind. (Yeah, that’s a big ouch right there.) Predictably enough, the 
hunter’s mind shatters in the process, and what remains has been forever shaped by the 
horror that she’s endured. As if that wasn’t enough already, the bloody images and 
violent urges that overwhelm her during her imbuing never completely go away, 
leaving the poor imbued to deal with a constant stream ofgory images and half-realized 
brutalitv that threatens to boil over at anv second. For an idea of what this is like. 
imagine the conditioning sequence from A Clockwork Orange played at full volume in 
your mind every waking moment for the rest of your life -except 
that accompanying 
these images is the message that violence is OK, that slaughter is acceptable and that 
the annihilation of anyone who gets in your way is not only right, it is no less than what 
your supreme being expects of you. 
Yeah, it’s that serious. 
i
b P
I
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I ! 
1 
t 
* 
1 i I 
Read it now and let it sink in forever after: There are IU) good Wayruards. No 
matter who a Wayward might have been before her imbuing, she has become -and 
will always remain - 
a deeply psychotic individual who, like it or not, has absolutely 
no problem killing anyone or everyone she meets. Even hardcore Avengers and others 
who might agree with a few of their ideas still balk at the endless capacity for 
remorseless killing that these monsters possess. Only similarly deranged individuals 
can stand their company for any length of time, and even then such groups are 
naturally unstable and prone to self-destructiveness for other reasons (though those 
are learn to work together are frightening indeed). Waywards are certainly not heroes, 
or even misguided anti-heroes - 
they are shattered, dangerous maniacs who will stop 
at nothing to pursue their vision of a world swept clean of monsters and all who side 
with them. Any similarity to the goals or tactics of other, nobler imbued is purely 
coincidental on their part, or perhaps worse still a deliberate deception designed to 
smoke out the weak and impure hunters before destroying them. 
This constant overpowering barrage of violent thoughts and images is repre- 
sented in game terms by the fact that all Waywards receive a mandatory, permanent 
derangement related to violence and emotional dissociation such as Compulsiue- 
Aggressive Disorder, Megalomania, Sadism or Schirophrenia (see “Derangements” on p. 
93 for more details). They receive no Free Traits for this derangement, though they 
may take additional ones during character creation for full credit if they desire. This 
derangement is always considered active, and cannot be treated, bought off or 
temporarily suppressed in any way, even with edges or other supernatural powers. A 
Wayward cannot even spend a Willpower Trait to resist her derangement for a turn, 
unless the Storyteller permits it, nor would most of them want to anyway - 
their 
madness is all they know, making it unlikely that they’d try to fight it. Maybe once they 
were different, but now they have been shown the truth, and this is what it told them 
they must do. 
Apocrypha 
Despite rumors of a doomsday cult to the contrary, not all Waywards are 
Christian fundamentalists of one kind or another, though unfortunately a few of the 
ones that have begun to surface have been responsible for giving other imbued this 
impression. It is fair to say that 99% of Waywards have some belief in a higher power, 
if only because they believe it has turned its back on them. After all, bloody as it might 
be, very few people could come through the kind of intimate contact with the Heralds 
that Waywards experience without forming a belief in some form of divine authority, 
if they didn’t have one already. Naturally, while individual scenarios vary in the 
details, the message as a whole is very clear to this creed: Armageddon is here, and in 
the end only those who fight the hordes of darkness will be saved. Everything else is 
meaningless, an obstacle to be overcome or destroyed as needed. 
That said, there are Waywards from all races and walks oflife, from heartless thugs 
and terrorists whose pattern of violence only escalated with their imbuing to entirely 
harmless people who had this savage existence imposed on them seemingly at random. 
This diversity will prove to be perhaps the most terrifying trait of all about this 
fearsome creed, once they become known to their fellow imbued at large: that they can 
blend in with everyone else, their hate-filled minds like ticking bombs waiting to 
explode in a firestorm of violence and suffering. If the monsters represent the enemy 
without, then Waywards may well be the enemy within. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Gifts 
Continual Sight 
As part of their ceaseless exposure to the horrors ofwar (or perhaps because of it), 
all Waywards are considered to have their second sight permanently active, at no 
Conviction cost. However, this version of the sight provides none of the associated 
protection against mind- or body-control that activating their full Conviction defense 
does, so most Waywards quickly learn to “steel their will” against intrusion whenever 
they spot monsters to avoid suffering from their insidious powers. Interestingly 
enough, their form of the sight also somehow prevents them from ever acquiring 
Discern, Witness, Illuminate or any other edges that allow them to distinguish between 
different types ofcreatures - 
to their sight, all monsters are equally tainted and equally 
deserving of death. 
Signs of the Righteous 
To the Waywards, all of the hunt is a struggle to show monsters that a force more 
powerful than them has been chosen to wipe their evil from the earth. More cagey and 
experienced psychos know that a show of strength is often as important to winning a 
conflict as actual strength itself, so they cover themselves and their gear with the 
symbols of the hunter code and other signs of power, seeking to alert other imbued that 
a true hunter has arrived as well as confuse and terrify their prey. Other killers feel a 
call to return to simpler, more savage ways in their hunting, and instinctively take to 
wearing war paint or otherwise ritually adorning themselves for battle. Whatever a 
Wayward’s motivation might be, before long many of them wind up sporting tattoos 
and other permanent markings; mixed in with the more familiar signs are some bizarre 
symbols that other hunters recognize as part of the code but which also seem to have 
a particular power to themselves as well. Those few imbued who have started to 
recognize the Wayward phenomena as its own distinct entity are growing increasingly 
nervous, as they recognize these new symbols might be not just markings of the killers, 
but emblems of power as well. 
System: To date, no Waywards have ever developed a talent for empowering these 
symbolic tattoos any other way than spontaneously; while two psychos can exchange 
symbols when they meet, for the most part the Waywards simply know how to use them 
when the time is right. A Wayward may learn how to empower his first symbol upon 
acquiring four Vision Traits, and acquires another symbol for his repertoire with each 
additional Vision Trait afterward. Once selected, a symbol cannot be changed. A 
Wayward must have the mark drawn on his body to be effective (placement is not 
important); most choose to have these symbols tattooed on them in order to always 
have them at hand, though less permanent means work in a pinch. If a symbol is ever 
marred or destroyed, it immediately loses all effectiveness until it is reapplied. A 
Wayward cannot apply these symbol on anyone but himself, not even on other 
Waywards who understand the same sign; other imbued may understand what they 
mean, but receive no benefit for wearing them. 
Activating asymbolrequires three ConvictionTraits, andlastsfor up toanumber 
of days equal to the Wayward’s Vision rating. No more than one symbol may ever be 
active at a time, and while a Wayward can choose to deactivate one at any time, 
another one cannot be activated until the original time period for the first one has 
lapsed. Thus, if a Wayward with six Vision Traits deactivates a symbol after two days 
of use, he must still wait at least another four days before he can spend Conviction to 
activate another one, or even re-use the one he had active before. Benefits gained from 
a symbol can cause the Wayward to exceed normal limits, and any Traits gained from 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I 
1 I 
:i 
It i 
I 
them can be bid, lost or regained normally during the time the symbol is active. A list 
of possible symbols is included in the accompanying box; players are also permitted to 
devise their own unique symbols and benefits, subject to Storyteller approval. (For 
illustrations of what these symbols look like, see Hunter Book: Wayward, p. 93.) 
Wayward Signs 
Meaning 
Chief/Warlord/General 
Enraged/Unkmhed/Furious 
EnduringlS toicITenaciow 
Vigilant/Alert/Wary 
GuidedIChosenlDestined 
WilylCunninglResourceful 
UnbreakableIUnstoppablelRelentless 
Deadly/PiercinglPrecise 
ResilientlUnflinchinglUntoucbble 
Dev~tatinglBrutalIAwesome 
Benefit 
FreeretestonallLeadershipur Intimida- 
tiontests. Alsorecognizedm the Wayward 
creed symbol in the conventional hunter 
code. 
Free Brawny and Ferocious Traits. 
Free Tenacious and Enduring Traits. 
Free Vigilant and Alert Traits. 
Extra level of the Destiny Background. 
Free retest on all Streetwise, Survival or 
Subterfuge tests. 
Two Extra Willpower Traits. 
Free retest on all Brawl ur Melee tests. 
Extra Bruised Health Level. 
Inflict an extra level ofdamage on all hits 
with one chosenform ofattack (selected 
when the symbol is taken): Brawl, Me- 
lee, Athletics ur Firearms. This symbol 
may be chosen mure than once, provided 
a different mode ofattack is selected and 
the design is modified each time. 
Any retests given by symbols allow only for a single retest per challenge, 
with the second result taking effect. 
Imbuing 
Of all the creeds, Waywards have perhaps the most extreme imbuing of all, most 
commonly spectacular blood baths that make Avenger or Martyr rites of passage look 
like Sunday school picnics. Casualties run high, whether they are monsters, normal 
people or even other hunters being imbued at the same time, and the Wayward has just 
enough time to wonder what they have to do when all of a sudden they are shown the 
Truth. All monsters must die, as well as anyone who stands with them - 
and this is 
OK. It seems perfectly natural and right to the new Wayward, the same sort ofeveryday 
decision as a normal person might make about choosing what to wear to work or what 
they want for dinner. This is the primary difference between the creation of an 
Avenger or a Martyr as compared to the walking horror that is a Wayward - 
while 
Avengers lash out from a sense of outrage, and Martyrs sacrifice to achieve a goal, the 
Wayward is a child ofvision. Their capacity for violence comes from the fact that they 
have seen the plan the Heralds intend for the war (or at least believe they have), and 
like other adherents of Vision, they’re now doing their best to impose their plan on the 
world at large. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
Camps 
Conservative -These 
fanatics embody the most extreme ideals of this already 
frightening creed, turning them into vicious hunters and killers who care absolutely 
nothing for those caught in their path and even take some joy in striking out at the 
enemy (whoever that might be at the moment). Chances are they were hate-filled 
individuals before the imbuing, and the Messengers merely put a face on what they had 
always “known” about the suffering and evil of the world. This also means that many 
of them have personal agendas that they tack onto their relentless hunt for monsters, 
often with hideous results that resemble miniature genocides fine-tuned to their 
specifications. 
Moderate - 
Waywards of this disposition have grown to accept their mission 
with kind ofweary resignation rather than the crazed glee or terrified reluctance of the 
others. After all, if death is the inevitable end to anything anyway, what’s wrong with 
bringing it to those who deserve it, especially if beings like the Heralds command it? 
(Of course, exactly who fits the description of “deserving it” is often quite different 
from moderate to moderate.) Most of the time, these imbued become so numb from 
the horrors of their task that killing is merely another chore for them, though they 
retain acertain cold logic and thus might work be able to with agroup for a time if their 
goals seemed compatible. Likewise, some began their careers in groups, only to be cast 
out for their increasingly disturbing actions. 
Liberal - 
Though it is a rarity in an already rarefied field, some Waywards are 
imbued who don’t come to identify with their mission like the rest of their fellows, who 
are horrified by what the Heralds are urging them to do. Many try desperately to hold 
on to their old lives and values, but they still cannot hold back the madness endemic 
to this creed for long, and as a result many develop split personalities or similar 
disorders in order to cope with the terrible violence they are compelled to perform. 
More than one of these Waywards has awakened in the middle of aroom of bodies with 
no idea how they got there, which in turn takes its own toll on their psyches on top 
of their ordinary stresses. Ironically enough, these are often the most dangerous 
Waywards for their fellow imbued, as they switch from nice to nightmarish with little 
warning, and can switch from being quite friendly one moment to committing some 
terrible crime the next with no warning at all. 
Starting Conviction: 4 
i
I
c !
f 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Iscllatien 
Hermits 
Youlooksurprised. DidIstartle you?Or is it becausenormally the approachofsomeone 
bearingasymbollike thisone here triggers suchstrongreactions you feellike youmight lose 
your mind just to see if thatwould make it better? Ah, I see I have your full attentionnow. Well, 
I’llsave the introductionsforlater-you’dprobablyrecognizemefromhunter-net anyway, SO 
don’tworry. 
wasn’tenoughofacluealready, 
your writing online hasour fingerprintsallover it. What do I meanby “our”?Goodquestion, 
and precisely why1 timedleaving my particular hiding place tocoincide withone ofthose rare 
times Iknew I could fiid you here. (Let itneverbesaidthat wereclusesarenothtng ifnot zealous 
aboutour scheduling!) I just had toseekyououtbecauseweare alike, youand1,painfulasit 
might be. Because togetherwemight have achanceat figuringoutwhatmakesussodifferent, 
whatkeepsussoisolatedfromtheonlyotherpeople 
whomight be able tohelpuswithwhat 
we’regoingthrough. 
But most ofall, because you’re theonlyone I’veeveractuallymet. 
There are others out there, don’t get me wrong. We 
are not singular in our new society, though whether 
that’sablessingoracurseremains tobeseen.No, these 
others tend tokeep thehunter-net, althoughoccasion- 
ally one willworkup thenerve tofax something, and 
really brave ones will actually drop off a package on 
someone’sdoorstepbeforerunnlngoff 
intothenight again. 
As for the lists, most ofthemdon’t post agreat deal, but you 
can tell that they’re one ofus by the kinds of things they say 
when they do. Usually their messages are full of information 
that only someone with a truly amazing amount of spare time 
would be able todig up, but short onminor details that the rest 
ofthe world picks uponadaily basis, not tomention inter- 
spersed with a few rambling, esoteric thoughts at different 
intervals. Alotoftimes they’ll also post what they have to say 
andthenneverrespond,leavingtheir informationor advice to 
sit aloneout there like a m p +  presenr fromanabsent fnend. 
I don’t thinkit’s because ofallthecretinsandflamerson the 
hunter-net, either, thoughI’msure those ranting idiots scare 
off alotofourkindaswell. Rather, I thinkit’sbecause it’s the 
onlyway they know how torelate toothers anymore, to just 
leave what they know out there to stand on its own, no 
problemofpersonality or iteractionattached. I know for 
afact that theonlyreasonI’mherenow, sofar from the 
safetyofmy a p m e n t ,  isthatwithlonghoursofpatience 
and suffering I think I’ve finally managed to build up a 
tolerance for thestatic, and1 wasgamblingfrom the 
your posts that you’d managed to do some. 
mdar. Fortunately forbothofoursakes, I was 
t. But what about all of those like us who 
nevermanage todothat?Itgivesmechillsto 
imagine what alifeentirely at the mercy ofthe 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


voices, the sounds, the frustrating ever-present babble ofmessages I just can’t understand but 
I know I’mmeant todo somethingwith and1 just want to.. .. 
I’msony. My concentrationstaaed to slip, and Ican’t let that happen yetpot whenthere’s 
still so muchwe have todiscuss. Most importantly, exactly what the Heralds had in mind for 
us when they gaveus thepower.Nobodyelseseems toknowswhy it happened thatwe turned 
out this way, ofcourse, and for that matter I don’t really trust alot ofthe answersothers have 
come up with in regards to what our “real” purpose was supposed to be. What I do know is that 
weseem toexperienceacontinualstateequivalent towhatotherpeopledescnbe as thekinds 
ofthings that they experiencedonly once, during their imbuing- the howling voices, the 
strange images, the buarre ideas that creep into their minds. While it’s true that there are afew 
others whoreport having aregular levelofcontact with the Heralds after their imbuing, none 
ofthemseem toendureanything nearthelevelofthe pain thatour“static”brmgsuswhenwe 
gonear monsters or other imbued, so I’mrulmgthemout asbeing simply others likeus whogot 
a “mi1der”case. Ifthat’s true, thenwe must arrive at the conclusion that we have beensingled 
outforsomething,agreaterpurposeasidefromthefactofoursimplyhave beenimbuedand 
beingshowntheauthofcreation.Ofcourse, 
intheabsenceofaclearanswerfromtheHeralds 
on the subject (though Isupposewe alwayscan hope), all that does lsralse morequestions. Why 
do the Messengers keepus insuchc 
hallthe othersaway?Arethey 
consciousness 
arereceivmg imagesand 
uman consciousness could bear! 
Don’tyousee?We weremeant tobecommunicatorsforallofthe imbued, usingournaturally 
receptive ESPfields to spy on the infectedaurafieldsofthemonstersevenas we receivedmeta- 
imperatives from the Herald consciousness collective todistribute to the rest of our kind. 
Knowing that, it’s pure simplicity to see that our continued mental anguish is only apost- 
adapted psycho-biofeedback response to the overwhelming datastreams that our active 
impulse-receivers have been processing, thus meaning that a cure for our condition would 
present itselfifwecouldhelprid theworldofthepollutedaurafieldcreatedby the monsters 
and theirnaturally taintedspiritualarchitecture. . .. 
Why are you lookingat me like that ?I’msony if it’sallcoming out inarush, but I just can’t 
seemtohold backthevoicesanylonger,andthey’reinterferingwithmytheoriesagain, 
messing 
andminglingandbendingtheway1 intendthemtocomeoutso they seemsogarbled, when 
through the agony Icansee the truthofit all, it’ssoplain, all it takes is for us torealize the potential 
ofthesublimatedconsciousness to understand-No! Don’t go! Please, I just need one more 
moment-I 
just need- I just., . . 
I justdon’twant tobe alonewiththevoices.Notagain.Noteveragain. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
1 
1 
1 
F I i I 
Weakness 
static 
There’s a very good reason Hermits are so averse to dealing with others, especially 
monstersandotherimbued-asasideeffectoftheiruniqueconnectiontotheHeralds, their 
minds are permanently fldedwithanoverpoweringpsychic “static”wheneverthey come 
withinacertaindistance ofoneofthese beings. What isnormally aconstant quiet babbleof 
alienvoicesandcrypticphrases, accompaniedbybizarre imagesandothermysterioussensory 
phenomena, immediately increases in volume to become anutterly devastating psychic 
onslaught assoonas theHermitcomesnearsuch individuals, anddoesnot ceaseuntilthey are 
outofthatrange. Whileoccasionallyusefulasacruelearlywamingsystemofsorts, 
thisstatic 
isso debilitating that it isultimately far more ofacurse thanablesing, andplayersshouldbear 
this in mind at all times when portraying one of these tormented souls. While the special 
Tokrance Ability can offer a temporary respite from this debilitating condition (see below), it 
remainsasincurableasit ismysterious,andWillpowerexpenditurehasnoeffectonit 
inany 
way either. 
While it islargelyaroleplayingmechanicandthereforeup tothe playertoportray, it is 
also recommended that Storytellers encourage players to use different props and techniques to 
simulate the anguishof the static, to help reinforce thedebilitatingeffects it hason their lives. 
For example, creatingpre-recorded CDs or tapes ofvoices andnoises that aplayercan listen 
to when thestaticactivatescanbe ausefulroleplaying tool (not to mentionshow thedifficulty 
they haverelating toothers), ascanwearingstrangelycoloredglasses orthosewithslightly 
disorientingeffects suchas3-Dglassesorrefracting lenses. Provided that such thingsdon’t 
actuallybecomemoreofhindrance toplaythanahelp, orcauseaplayertobecomenauseated 
or disoriented out ofgame, they canbe invaluable in helpingaplayer understand the true depth 
ofher character’scondition, as well asgiving Storytellers aneasy way todetermine when the 
staticisor isn’t ineffect. 
System: A Hermit suffering the effects ofstatic isconsidered tobehave aone-Trait penalty 
onallPhysicalChallengesandatwo-TraitpenaltyonallSocialorMentalChallenges, 
due to 
the intenseagony anddisorientation thestaticcauses.The range thestatic is triggeredat 
dependson the H e r m i t ’ s P ~ ~ B r a t i n g .  
Characterswiththree 1evelsofPmunsuffer 
staticany time they are withinthree pacesofan imbuedorsupematuralcreature; characters 
withfourlevelssuffer it any time they are in the sameroom/immediate areaofone ofthese 
beings; and characters with five levels of Patron suffer any time they are within the same 
buildindarge outdoor areaof a supernaturalcreature. (These range incrementscanbe adjusted 
forthesakeofplayability, iftheStorytellerdesires.)OnlytheTokrm7ceAbilitycanprovideany 
relieffrom the penalties of the static-not 
even edges or supernatural powers have been 
successful in blocking it out, as it represents nothing less than the presence of the Heralds in 
theHermit’smind. 
Inadditionto theotherpenaltiesofthestatic, the permanentderangementbroughton 
by their condition isalsorenderedactive whenever thestatic is triggered,furthercomplicating 
their attempts at meeting with othersof their kind-however, thisderangement can stillbe 
temporarilyovercome with Willpower or other means, just asany other derangement might 
be. 
Permanent Derangement 
As aresultofthe extreme stress that comes with the constant murmuring ofthe Heralds 
in theHermit’smind, allHermitsmustselect aderangementrelated todifficulty withsocial 
interactionsuchasHyswnh,Munic-DepressionorPuru~ia. Thisderangement cannever be 
permanently cured, althoughunlike the permanent derangement that Waywards receive it can 
be temporarilyrelievedthroughWillpowerexpenditure, 
edgesorothermeans.Theyreceive 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i I I I 
I I I 
r 
Unique Ability: Tolerance 
This Ability allows a Hermit to temporarily withstand the effects of the 
static, allowing them to interact with hunters or monsters normally for a short 
period of time. Each level of Tokrance allows the Hermit to ignore the 
penalties of static for being near one hunter or supernatural creature for one 
hour, cumulatively. Thus, a Hermit with three levels of this Ability can go 
three hours in the presence of up to three beings that would normally trigger 
the static without suffering a penalty. Should time run out, or the number of 
people ever exceed the amount they can handle, the full penalties of the static 
immediately resume until the Hermit brings the situation back within his 
limits This Ability’s benefits reset every 24-hour period, although the Hermit 
can use his time all at once or in smaller increments as he desires. Bystanders 
count as half a person (round down, minimum one) for the purposes of this 
Ability, as do Visionaries for reasons no one has yet been able to determine. 
It is possible to specialize in this Ability; each time a specialization is 
selected, choose one creed - 
members of that creed now count as half a person 
for the purposes of this Ability, asdescribedabove. It should benoted thatwhile 
the game penalties of the static are temporarily removed with Tokrance, the 
constant barrage of the static doesn’t go away, it just quiets a little -a 
dull roar 
as opposed to a pounding storm. While not nearly as bad as their normal 
burden, the struggle this Ability represents should still be roleplayed accord- 
ingly, or the Hermit begins to seem more like a lucid person occasionally 
plagued by moments of madness, rather than the other way around as they are 
meant to be. 
noFreeTraits for thisderangement, though they may take additionalones duringcharacter 
creation for full credit if they desire. 
Apocrypha 
Many Hermits do not hold one solid belief about their origin or their purpose, as 
the nature of their condition makes it difficult to be certain of anything related to the 
Heralds or the mission for very long. Still, given that many of them have little else to 
do except contemplate their condition, some views and opinions have emerged, 
though they remain highly personal to those that hold them. A few have postulated 
that Hermits were originally intended to be one step above the rest of the imbued, 
giving orders based directly on their closeness to the Heralds; others contend that their 
state is one step below the others, who have obviously accommodated the presence of 
the Messengers in their lives (not to mention minds) much better than this broken 
creed. Religious Hermits consider the passion of the saints, or the relationship between 
insanity and the visions of mystics and prophets of times past, while more secular 
members instead theorize about innate human psychic potential or mass hysteria 
conditions. A paranoid few even fear that they are the only ones who hear the true 
voice of the Heralds, and that the rest of the imbued are being misled by this force of 
utter madness for its own inscrutable ends. Given the multiplicity of different views 
on their origins, however, many Hermits eventually resign themselves to trying to find 
some way to apply the information that assaults themdaily, rather than think too hard 
about where it is coming from.. . at least for now. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Gift 
Constant Contact 
Though it may seem paltry compensation indeed for the static and madness that 
accompanies their contact with the Heralds, there is one benefit to it as well: All 
Hermits receive three levels of the Patron Background for free during character 
creation (levels four and five can be purchased as if they were levels one and two, 
respectively). In addition, these beginning levels can never be permanently lost during 
play; like it or not, they’ll always be this close to the Heralds. 
Message In A Bottle 
Given the nature of the edges that they develop and the amount of contact they 
endure from the Heralds, more than one imbued has made the obvious leap that the 
Hermits were originally intended to be messengers and communicators for the 
imbued. Even in their fractured condition, however, Hermits still unconsciously find 
themselves drawn to composing treatises about what they have learned and dissemi- 
nating them to their fellow imbued almost without thinking about it. While it can be 
difficult to sort out the information from the noise of some of these works, those 
imbued who try can often glean a surprising amount of insight from a Hermit’s work. 
These missives seem to seek out those who need them most, even if the Hermit 
abandons them, leading a select few who are aware of the existence of such messages 
to suppose that the Heralds may intervene directly to ensure their arrival. Of course, 
it remains open to speculation whether this drive to collect and share what they know 
is a remnant of some original imperative the Hermits will supposed to fulfill, or simply 
a way for the Heralds to make up for the failings of this creed. 
System: Every time a Hermit acquires a new Vision Trait beyond those she 
receives at character creation, she feels an unconscious but overpowering urge to 
record what she has learned so far and send it out into the hunter community. The 
exact medium for her message doesn’t matter - 
letter, e-mail, journal, video, CD, etc. 
-so long as it contains her thoughts and opinions on her new existence as well as any 
information about hunters, monsters or other subjects even remotely relevant to the 
mission. Creating such a record requires a minimum of two days of effort, as well as the 
investment of a Willpower Trait - 
players are highly encouraged to actually produce 
these items if at all possible, though an item card or other purely descriptive 
representation might be acceptable with the Storyteller’s permission. Once it is 
finished, the Hermit must cast the message out in some fashion and trust the Heralds 
to deliver it to those who need it - 
perhaps she considers her journal a waste of time 
and throws it in the trash, onlyfor another hunter to stumble across it in the gutter days 
later, or she sends an eemail with a blank recipient line that somehow manages to 
deliver itself to the right people. It is important to stress that the Hermit is usually not 
consciously aware that the Heralds will deliver the message, though a Hermit who has 
three Vision Traits and one Trait in both Zeal and Mercy has begun to gather enough 
general insight that she suspects the guiding hand behind the effort of creating such 
messages. Obviously, Hermits may create and distribute similar works at other times 
if they desire, but only those messages composed at the time they acquire a new Vision 
Trait have the benefit of being delivered by the Heralds. 
Receiving such messages is usually just an informative roleplaying experience for 
those involved, although the Storyteller may rule that a message which the recipients 
find particularly helpful or inspiring gives them a Willpower or Conviction Trait as a 
reflection of their renewed commitment or insight into the hunt. Hermits might even 
receive one such message themselves, especially if they put out a particularly insightful 
or intriguing tract. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
i 
I 
i 
II! 
Imbuing 
A Hermit imbuing is usually distinguished by the fact that rather than simply 
receiving a brief phrase or image regarding the supernatural, a vast torrent of such 
information begins pouring in their mind, not only alerting them to the situation at 
hand but also a dozen other things that may not be so direct at all. Thus they do not 
typically jump into the fray as most other imbued do, literally or figuratively, but stay 
to the side of the scene where they try their best to make sense of the warnings and 
insights they’re receiving and pass them on to those who can act more directly. If 
they’re alone, they typically try to find some way to alert others who might be able to 
intervene more directly, all the while watching and learning about the creatures they 
are suddenly aware of. 
Camps 
Conservative - 
These Hermits are usually the ones who were fondest of their 
previous lives, and thus the transformation they’ve undergone at the hands of the 
Heralds hasn’t thrilled them one bit. They hate what they have been forced to see and 
the pain they’ve gone through, but feel that if they’re going to be shackled with all of 
this maddening information, then by God they’re at least going to use it to do some 
good! Needless to say, that makes these Hermits the ones most likely to try working 
with other imbued as often as they can manage it, since their grim determination to 
wrest some good from the confusion of their new existence allows them to endure great 
punishment for the sake of striking back at the creatures who started this nightmare 
in the first place. 
Moderate -While conservatives are most likely to jump at a chance to strike 
at the evil that monsters represent, moderate Hermits are more likely to hold up both 
monsters and imbued to the same standards - 
often with disappointing results for 
both. They don’t like what the creatures have done, but view the reactions of their 
more extreme colleagues with equaldisdain, and frequently hold the opinion that both 
sides are little better than squabbling children with frightening powers. Many of these 
Hermits started out with a very cynical view ofhumanity to begin with, although a few 
have simply arrived at the conclusion that judging both sides equally is the only way 
to develop a clear and unbiased picture of the situation. In either case, this neutrality 
can also draw negative attention from hotheads on both sides, which moderates must 
be quite careful to avoid if they don’t wish to wind up being used as an example for what 
happens to “traitors” on one side or another. 
Liberal - 
Liberal Hermits question the motives of the Heralds directly, often 
viewing deliberately removing themselves from the imbued community (although not 
necessarily from the hunt itself) as a necessary measure to protect their free will from 
the alien control of the Messengers. Some were dedicated atheists who resent the 
divine imperative that the Heralds seem to represent, while others are natural 
malcontents who don’t deal well with orders of any kind, but all of them agree that 
blindly following the directives of mysterious beings is an unacceptable course of 
action, especially given the murky motives and inscrutable entities they encounter on 
the hunt. Depending on their point of view and their experience with creatures in the 
past, they may decide to try to contact these so-called “monsters” on a regular basis to 
learn more about them, or they may continue the hunt “on their own terms,” but 
regardless of what they choose to do they take great pains to ensure that it is what they 
wish to do, not an order from some controlling presence using them as its plaything. 
Starting Conviction: 3 
i
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


t I I 
1 I 
I I 
I 
A year ago, Seth never would have considered himself capable of breaking into 
a house; six months ago, he never would have imagined he would ever be any good at 
it. Now it was a skill that came only too naturally to him, and he cursed the Voices for 
making him develop it even as he thanked his own natural aptitude for picking it up 
so quickly. He parked his car on a crowded side street a block and a half away from the 
house, where Scott and Mae were already waiting for him, and the three of them 
watched silently as Tim’s car pulled in down the street, and the young man known in 
another life as “chemist 105” hurried as inconspicuously as possible toward them. 
Their plan, finished over Lucy’s coffee table only a few hours ago, was much the 
same as the others had been: Seth, Tim, Scott and Mae would go into the house and 
try to destroy the presence lurking within. Although initially included, Feline had 
begged off at the last minute; a family crisis had come up, and she needed to see her 
parents, so they had been forced to go ahead without her. In addition, Scott had 
objected to the violent focus of the plan, arguing that they should try talking to the 
creature first, but he had eventually agreed with Seth and the others that the evidence 
overwhelmingly suggested that this spirit was beyond redemption. It was the one 
subject the two siblings often disagreed on; Mae was usually quick to push for the 
expulsion and destruction of the creatures they encountered, while Scott generally 
pushed for less violent solutions. Seth never told the others, but deep down he felt as 
though it was his purpose to defend people like Melissa from what they could not see. . . 
most likely by dying in the process. 
Meanwhile, Lucy would stay outside in her own car with a police scanner and a 
cell phone to warn them incase they were spotted and someone called the police. That 
had only happened once so far, two months ago when they were attempting to destroy 
a bloodsucker in his haven, and the narrowness of their escape had convinced them 
to never be so sloppy again. If everything went well this time, they would head into 
the house, destroy the spirit and head back out to their cars, taking care to stagger their 
departure so they didn’t attract suspicion. If not, well.. . his last hospital stay had lasted 
three agonizing weeks, and he didn’t think another excuse about a bad fall and a 
broken glass would cover up another set of broken bones and suspicious gashes. 
At Seth‘s direction they walked down the street and went around behind the 
house, cutting through the dark yard until they were hidden among the trees behind 
Melissa’s house. He heard Scott swear softly; she’d left the light over her backdoor on. 
By contrast, the windows were dark and quiet, like wide open staring eyes. “We’ll be 
lit up like high noon,” Scott muttered, and behind him he heard Mae and Tim shift 
uneasily. They were both carrying “weapons,” Tim the shovel that he’d had since his 
first encounter with the monsters, Mae a heavy wrench that the Voices had taught her 
to coax into flame and would draw even more attention if they were spotted. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


“There’s no way around it,” he said, shaking his head. “We’ll just have to do it 
fast.” The others nodded, and together they moved to the door, Tim and Mae falling 
slightly behind in a protective posture. Seth knelt down by the door, plying his 
homemade lockpick as fast as he could; fortunately, the lock was as old as the house, 
and she hadn’t had time to install a more modem security system. With a last click, the 
door eased open at his touch. “We’re in.” 
A cold breeze blew back out at them, and Scott almost hesitantly clicked on his 
flashlight. The circle of light it cast looked lonely and small in the darkness, as though 
afraid to be the first thing to set foot in the house. The group waited for what felt like 
a full minute, hearing nothing, seeing nothing, dreading everything, before finding 
their courage and filing quietly inside, shutting the door behind them. 
T 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
i 
I 
i 
I 
Without characters, there can be no game. Each player takes on the role of a 
character, a persona within the context of the game. To guarantee that all players use 
the same potentials and capabilities for their characters, the rules of Mind’s Eye 
Theatre provide a single simple set of guidelines for character creation. 
Quick Character Creaticn Prccess 
Step One: Inspiration - 
Who are you? 
- 
Choose a concept. 
- 
Choose a creed. 
- 
Choose a Nature and a Demeanor. 
Step Two: Attributes - 
What are your basic capabilities? 
- 
Prioritize Attributes (six primary, four secondary and three tertiary). 
- 
Choose Traits. 
Step Three: Advantages - 
What do you know? 
- 
Choose five Abilities. 
- 
Choose five Backgrounds. 
Step Four: Last Touches - 
Fill in the details. 
- 
Assign three Virtue Traits. 
- 
Record starting Willpower Traits (2). 
-Record 
starting Conviction (based on creed). 
- 
Choose edges (based on Virtues). 
- 
Choose Negative Traits and Flaws (if any). 
- 
Choose a Derangement (Storyteller permission only). 
- 
Spend five (or more) Free Traits and choose Merits (if any). 
Step Five: Spark of Life - 
Narrative descriptions 
Step One: Inspiration 
Arguably the most important step in character creation is the formation of the 
basic concept. Every hunter was once a regular person, with hopes, fears, dreams and 
ambitions all her own-such 
ideals and values don’t just vanish overnight, even with 
the realization that monsters are real. (Indeed, if anything most of them probably seem 
more vital to her now than ever before.) After the imbuing, a character brings her 
particular outlook to her new life; even if you decide that her new role has forced her 
to cast aside all she once was and start over, it’s still only a startling change of heart 
if you understand what she was like to begin with. All of these strengths and 
weaknesses shape the character’s Traits, capabilities and limitations. 
The first step in creating a character is to come up with a basic idea of the person. 
This initial concept can usually be summed up in a single word - 
scholar, drifter, 
dilettante, laborer. Don’t worry about details now; think more in terms of broad 
brushstrokes. Create the regular person she once was, before you start worrying about 
the hunter who sees the monsters lurking in the shadows of the world. Once you know 
where they came from, you’ll have a better idea of where they’re going (and what 
they’ll do along the way). 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Creed 
Creeds are not formal organizations in any way, but rather a label used to get an 
idea ofhow the hunter views the supernatural, the Heralds and her own role in the war 
she’s been drafted into. Thus, they are a philosophy at heart more than anything else, 
but also the motivations and ideals that guide a hunter’s hand as she moves into action, 
whether it’s to reach out to the creatures of the night or destroy them altogether. 
Creeds receive much more attention in their own chapter, which begins on p. 34, but 
xief summary of their views and values can be found here: 
Creeds 
Defense - 
Winning the war means nothing if everything you’re fighting for 
is lost along the way. Defenders seek to protect what they can from the ravages 
of the war, if only to convince themselves the struggle is all worthwhile. 
Virtue: Zeal. Starting Conviction: 3 
Innocence - 
Don’t be too quick to deal out death and judgment, and don’t 
take anything for granted, especially with such an unknown group as 
monsters. Innocents know that in the chaos of the hunt there has to be 
someone checking to make sure that everyone is still human and still doing 
the right thing. 
Virtue: Mercy. Starting Conviction: 3 
Judgment - 
War consists of one difficult decision after another; Judges 
volunteer for this grim duty, deciding which creatures are worth sparing and 
evengoingsofar as toquestiontheactionsandmotivesoftheirfellow imbued 
when necessary. 
Virtue: Zeal. Starting Conviction: 3 
Martyrdom - 
Some must suffer that others might remain untouched by the 
corruption of the monsters. All hunters make sacrifices, but Martyrs do it 
without question or hesitation, and gladly leap in harm’s way to save another; 
their suffering validates the actions they take. 
Virtue: Mercy. Starting Conviction: 4 
Redemption - 
Within even the most debased creatures exists the possibility 
of salvation. Redeemers help any creatures who truly seek aid for their fallen 
state, but don’t hesitate to destroy those monsters that revel in their evil 
nature. 
Virtue: Mercy. Starting Conviction: 3 
Vengeance - 
Only one option exists to secure the freedom of humanity: 
total destruction of the enemy. Avengers don’t always begin their efforts with 
violence, but are more than willing to finish them that way if they must. 
Virtue: Zeal. Starting Conviction: 4 
Visionary- Skeptical of easy answers and interested in the deeper questions 
about their new existence, Visionaries are also the most likely of the imbued 
to plan for the long-term as opposed to simple day-to-day survival. 
Virtue: Vision. Starting Conviction: 3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I 
I 
The lost Creeds 
Though they are only starting to gain recognition as more than just a 
scattered number of disturbed imbued, evidence is surfacing that there are 
two whole creeds whose imbuing invariably drives them mad in a similar 
fashion. Perhaps these so-called “lost creeds” were meant to play specific 
roles in hunter society, but their true purpose has been obscured by the 
madness the Heralds inflicted on them. Given their warped natures, the 
mere presence of one of these imbued can change whole games, and so these 
creeds are not available to players without explicit Storyteller permission. 
Likewise, their particular quirks are established at their imbuing and 
cannot be changed thereafter, so a member of one of these creeds cannot 
change creeds later on, nor can a follower of another creed change to one of 
these creeds. Like it or not, the accident of their imbuing has marked them 
as different forever. 
Deviance - 
Shattered by an overwhelming barrage of images of violence 
and bloodshed from the Heralds, all Waywards are sociopathic loners and 
relentless stalkers, a danger to creature, hunter and normal human alike. 
Virtue: Vision. Starting Conviction: 4 
Isolation - 
For some poor souls the barrage of visions and voices from the 
Heralds never quiets; these Hermits shun the company of their fellow 
imbued, tormented by otherworldly information they can’t understand. 
Virtue: Vision. Starting Conviction: 3 
I 
Nature and Demeanor 
To define a character’s personality, choose a particular archetype. Each archetype 
lists anunderlying motivation, areason for acharacter to behave inspecific ways. The 
archetypes described here are by no means the final list ofpersonalities; Storytellers can 
suggest and approve any further numbers of archetypes. 
A character’s Nature is her innermost persona, the true basis of her motives. 
Though many people bury their desires behind facades, the drives of the Nature often 
shine through. Since the character’s Nature is a result of her upbringing and life 
experiences, Nature rarely changes. It takes extraordinary events to cause someone to 
change Natures. 
By contrast, the Demeanor is the public face, the one acharacter shows to everyone 
else. Even if radically at odds with the character’s Nature, the Demeanor provides a 
convenient mask against intrusion. Demeanors are subject to change at whim; some 
characters may change Demeanors like some people change socks, while others may 
choose a single face to present to the world. On occasion, Nature and Demeanor may 
be the same, but given the paranoia that many huntersfeel after their imbuing, few are 
comfortable being that open with those around them. 
Eccentric, Engine, Evangelist, Explorer, Fanatic, Gallant, Gambler, Nonpar. 
tisan, Paragon, Penitent, Perfectionist, Provider, Rebel, Rogue, Soldier, Stoic, 
Survivor, Teacher, Traditionalist, Trickster 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Step T’wc: attributes 
Natural capabilities use Attributes for descriptions. Every character has certain 
innate qualities. Attributes describe these qualities, marking a character’s particular 
areas of intrinsic talent. 
Ghccsing Attributes 
Each character has areas of modest skill and other areas of excellence. You 
determine your character’s natural talents, selecting whether your character is to be 
physically adroit, mentally agile or socially adept. The character’s concept should 
guide these choices, so an actor is probably socially versatile while a thuggish criminal 
probably has more physical development than mental. 
Physical Attributes measure your character’s general health, stamina, agility 
and power. A character with modest Physical Attributes is probably not very athletic, 
while a character with high Physical Attributes is exceptionally strong, dexterous or 
tough. 
Social Attributes determine the force of a character’s personality and ability to 
interact well with others. If your character has few Social Traits, she may be awkward, 
uninspired or just plain-looking. A socially potent character is attractive, compelling 
or smooth. 
Mental Attributes help in problem-solving, learning, deduction and general 
alertness. With limited Mental Attributes, a character is not particularly well- 
educated, quick-thinking or perceptive. A strongly Mental character is conversely 
intuitive, logical or attentive. 
Choose the priority of your character’s attributes. Each character is stronger in 
some areas than in others, at least at first. Obviously, concept and creed shape these 
attributes to some degree, but only a broad outline is needed in this step. 
Ghrcsing Traits 
Once you’ve decided upon your character’s inherent strengths, you should 
describe exactly the sorts of exceptional characteristics possessed. In your primary area 
of attribute development, choose six Traits; in your secondary, choose four; in your 
tertiary area, select threeTraits. Traits are adjectives describing the character, just like 
the descriptions in a novel or play. Thus, a highlySocia1 character might be more Witty 
attributes 
Physical Traits: &le, 
Brawny, Brutal, Dexterous, Enduring, Ferocious, 
Graceful, Lithe, Nimbk, Quick, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Stalwart, Steady, 
Tenacious, Tireless, Tough, Vigorous, Wiry 
Social Traits: Alluring, Beguiling, Charismatic, Charming, Commanding, 
Dignified, Diplomatic, Elegant, Eloquent, Empathetic, Expressive, Friendly, 
Genial, Gorgeous, Ingratiating, Intimidating, Magnetic, Persuasive, Seductive, 
Witty 
Mental Traits: Astute, Attentive, Clever, Creative, Cunning, Dedicated, 
Determined, Discerning, Disciplined, Insightful, Intuitive, Knowledgeable, Ob- 
servant, Patient, Rational, Reflective, Resourceful, Shrewd, Vigilant, Wily, Wise 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
i 
I 
P 
I 
than Intimidating, or a strong Mental character could be Rational and Wise but not 
exceptionally Clever or Alert. 
A complete list of Traits starts on p. 99. Pick Traits that describe your character 
as if you wanted to write down the particular qualities of the individual. You can pick 
a particular Trait multiple times, if you like, to denote spectacular depth in an area. 
Step T'hree: advantages 
These Traits record the special capabilities and resources of your character, from 
concrete things like cold hard cash and technical skill to more nebulous talents and 
holdings. 
Choosing Rbilities 
Select five Abilities that represent your character's education and training. 
Whether learned in mortal days or honed during the imbuing, Abilities set your 
character apart by letting her attempt tasks that less skilled compatriots cannot 
understand or complete. You can choose an Ability multiple times, if desired, to show 
greater expertise, though you cannot have more than five levels of any one Ability. A 
complete list of Abilities starts on p. 108. Note that some Abilities, especially Expert 
Abilities, may be restricted by your Storyteller. 
Choosing Backgrounds 
You may take five Background Traits for your hunter. Each Background repre- 
sents a tie to a particular agency, organization or resource, whether mortal or imbued. 
You can have up to five Traits in any single Background, though your Storyteller may 
prohibit certain Backgrounds based upon your concept, and most Storytellers will 
heavily scrutinize any Background above three Traits. 
Background descriptions start on p. 121. 
Step Four: last Touches 
The final character Traits come together once concept, creed, Backgrounds and 
Abilities are chosen. Since these Traits derive from the previous choices, mostly they 
are a matter of recording a certain number of Traits. Your last touches include 
Willpower Traits, Virtue Traits and Conviction Traits. 
Willpower Traits 
When all other avenues are exhausted, your Willpower measures your innate 
drive for self-preservation, your sense of mental fortitude and your ability to resist 
temptation and defeat. You can use Willpower Traits for a variety of tasks, like 
redoubling your efforts in a task or resisting supernatural coercion. 
Abilities 
Academics, Alertness, Awareness, Animal Ken, Athletics, Brawl, Computer, 
Crafts, Demolitions, Disguise, Dodge, Drive, Empathy, Endurance, Etiquette, 
Expression, Finance, Firearms, Hobby /Professional/Expert Ability, Intimidation, 
Intuition, Investigation, Law, Leadership, Linguistics, Medicine, Melee, Occult, 
Performance, Poison, Politics, Science, Security, Stealth, Streetwise, Subterfuge, 
Survival, Tactics, Torture, Traps 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
1 
1 
Ii 
* 
1 i 
I 
Backgraunds 
Allies - 
Mortal confederates and aides. 
Arsenal -Weapons and supplies for the hunt. 
Berserk -A fierce and destructive fighting rage. 
Bystanders - 
Associates who know the truth of the world. 
Contacts - 
Sources of reliable information. 
Destiny - 
A great (or terrible) fate awaits you. 
Everyman - 
Blending in with the mass of humanity. 
Exposure - 
Previous encounters with the supernatural. 
Fame - 
Outstanding reputation in regular society. 
Fraternity - 
Backing from a mysterious imbued patron. 
Grace Under Pressure - 
Steady reflexes in the face of danger. 
Influence - 
Sway over the institutions of mundane society in any 
number of areas: Bureaucracy, Church, Espionage, Finance, Health, 
High Socie ty , Industry, Legal, Media, Military, Occult, Police, Pohttcs , 
Street, Transportation, Underworld or University 
' 
Iron Willed - 
A capacity to ignore injuries for a limited time. 
Mentor - 
An older or more experienced imbued teacher. 
Patron - 
Regular visions and visitations from the Messengers. 
Pawn - 
A supernatural creature aids you.. . for its own reasons. 
1 
Resources - 
Material wealth and ready access to cash. 
Roots - 
Deep ties with the local community. 
Soulmate - 
A true love who provides great emotional strength. 
Steel Nerves - 
Resistance to insanity and mundane horrors. 
Each hunter begins with two Willpower Traits - 
a slight advantage over most 
ordinary people, but nowhere near some of the dread creatures of the night they battle 
against. You may choose to have a card for each Trait of Willpower you possess, and 
turn over the card to a Narrator or Storyteller when you expend Willpower. 
Virtue Traits 
All hunters follow the mission in their own way, but as a general rule, three 
distinct approaches to the hunt can be recognized 
There are three Virtues a character can follow - 
Mercy, Vision and Zeal - 
and 
during character creation, acharacter receives three Traits to assign to his Virtues. The 
only requirement is that a character must always have an equal or greater number of 
Traits in her creed's primary Virtue than the others; aside from that, how she spends 
her Traits is up to the player. 
Think carefully about how you assign your Virtue Traits, since not only do they 
tend to increase slowly during play, but more importantly they reflect your character's 
outlook on the hunt and how it evolves as the chronicle goes on. 
I 
I 
III
1i
I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I I I I 
i 
t 
I 
Virtues 
Mercy - 
If monsters were once human, then that means there have to be 
some that can be saved from their awful fate. However, if only some can be 
saved, that also means that others are too far gone to be spared; these 
monsters must be destroyed to protect innocents on both sides. 
Vision-Life 
is a complicated and inscrutable thing, even before the 
imbuing; is it really wise to assume that one has all the answers when it 
comes to this strange new world? We must examine all of our assumptions 
and all of the evidence about our new lives that we can - 
only then can we 
plan for the long-term. 
Zeal - 
Sometimes you simply have to believe in a cause for its own sake, 
draw definite lines you will not cross and not accept half-measures or half- 
truths any longer. Some call this extreme, but you know that one must be 
willing to take a stand against things (or things) you know to be wrong if 
justice is to survive. 
Edges 
As a result of their imbuing, hunters soon find that they can develop 
mysterious powers, called edges. While some researchers among the imbued 
labor to find out what the exact source of these powers might be, most are 
simply glad to have them, even if they don’t understand them. While 
hunters recognize no such distinctions, for game purposes edges are orga- 
nized by paths, which in turn correspond to each of the creeds. Descriptions 
of each path and the various edges can be found in the edge chapter, which 
begins on p. 190. 
Edges are “purchased” during character creation or after play begins 
with Virtue Traits; each edge costs an amount of Virtue Traits equal to its 
level, as outlined in the accompanying chart. Buying edges in this fashion 
does not actually lower a character’s Virtues, but Virtue Traits that have 
been used to purchase an edge cannot be used to buy another edge as well - 
the hunter must raise the appropriate Virtue again if the player wishes to 
purchase an additional edge from that Virtue. 
Edge Costs 
Edge Level 
Virtue Trait Cost 
Virtue Traits Required 
Level of Power 
Touched 
One 
One 
Basic 
Gifted 
Two 
Three 
Basic 
Devoted 
Three 
Six 
Intermediate 
Inspired 
Four 
Ten 
Intermediate 
Exalted 
Five 
Special 
Advanced 
i
I
b P 
I 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Defense Path 
Deviance Path 
Powers of protection and offense, derived 
from the Zeal Virtue. 
Powers of madness and slaughter, derived 
from the Vision Virtue. Available to members 
of the Wayward creed only. 
Powers of inquiry and evasion, derived from 
the Mercy Virtue. 
Powers of observation and communication, 
derived from the Vision Virtue. Available to 
members of the Hermit creed only. 
Powers of perception and balance, derived 
from the Zeal Virtue. 
Powers of sacrifice and retribution, derived 
from the Mercy Virtue. 
Powers of healing and condemnation, de- 
rived from the Mercy Virtue. 
Powers of wrath and potency, derived from 
the Zeal Virtue. 
Powers of insight and direction, derived from 
the Vision Virtue. 
Innocence Path 
Isolation Path 
Judgment Path 
Martyrdom Path 
Redemption Path 
Vengeance Path 
Visionary Path 
Example: Andy is an Innocent, and during character creation he decides to assign all 
three of his Virtue Traits to Mercy. When the time comes to select edges, he immediately 
selects Hide, a Touched edge of the Innocence Path that he feels works well with his concept. 
That leaves him with two Mercy Traits left to spend on edges. If he likes, he can buy a Gifted 
edge ofthe Innocence Path (since he has met the requirement of hawing at least one Touched 
edge from that path - 
this would cost his remaining two Mercy Traits, but give him afairly 
powerfuledge tostartwith. Alternately, hecoulduse his tworeminingTruits to buy twomore 
Touched edgesfrom any of the paths deriwedfrom Mercy, provided that he doesn't take more 
edges in another path than he has in Innocence (since that is his creed's primary path). He 
could save one or both of the Traits to buy edges later, which is exuctly what Andy does - 
not seeing any other edges that immediately jump out at him, he decides to hold on to both of 
his remaining Mercy Traits and see how things dewebp later on in the chronicle. Thus Andy 
begins play with three Mercy Traits and one Touched edge, with two Virtue Traits still free 
to be used later. 
Negative Traits 
Some characters have particular weaknesses or shortcomings. Others just never 
developed in some fashion, or suffered injuries that set back otherwise strong 
attributes. Such hindrances are represented with Negative Traits. Though Negative 
Traits are not required, they can represent a deficiency or injury in your character. 
Since few people actually want to play a character with handicaps and problems, 
Negative Traits grant bonuses in other areas of character creation. Each Negative 
Trait taken is good for one Free Trait later. You may take up to five Negative Traits, 
I
1
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I ! 
i 
1 
I 
Wegatire Traits 
Negative Physical Traits: Clumsy, Cowardly, Decrepit, Delicate, Docile, 
Negative Social Traits: Callow, Condescending, Dull, Eerie, Haggard, Nab, 
Negative Mental Traits: Forgetful, Gullible, Ignorant, Impatient, Oblivious, 
Flabby, Lame, Lethurgic, Puny, Sickly 
Obnoxiow, Repugnant, Scarred, Shy, Tactless 
Predictable, Shortsighted, Squeamish, Submissive, Violent, Warped, Witless 
though you should not take more than three Negative Traits in any one attribute 
category without Storyteller permission. 
Unlike other Attributes, you should only take Negative Traits from the 
list here. Although there are certainly other adjectives that would appropri- 
ately describe a character’s drawbacks, nobody can be expected to guess a 
Trait that isn’t covered in the rules. 
Remember to take Negative Traits that you can roleplay accurately and 
well. As a rule of thumb, for each level you have of a particular Negative 
Trait, that deficiency should come up in some noticeable way once per 
session. This need not be melodrama or a game-stopping display, but perhaps 
a notable comment or some minor action in front of several other characters 
that makes your shortcomings in that respect fairly plain (at least to those 
who know what to look for). Likewise, the Storyteller may force you to “buy 
off’ Negative Traits that you consistently ignore, as you’re so obviously 
working to overcome them. 
A complete listing of Negative Traits, and how they affect play, begins 
on p. 101. 
Derangements 
In addition to Negative Traits, you can choose derangements for your 
character. A derangement represents some sort of mental instability or 
neurotic behavior. Taking a derangement counts as two Negative Traits and 
thus grants you two Free Traits, but you can only take one derangement at 
character creation. Be warned, derangements cause unpredictable and un- 
controllable behavior at times, and a Storyteller is justified in asking you to 
“buy off” any derangement that you do not roleplay accurately. 
Remember that playing a derangement is an exercise in advanced 
roleplaying. Insanity is neither humorous nor light. You should always 
consult your Storyteller before deciding to take a derangement. 
Derangements 
Antisocial Disurkr, Charmed Life Complex, CornpukiveAggressive Disorder, 
Demophobia, Dissociation, Fugue, Hypochondria, Hysteria, Insomnia, Manic-Depres- 
sion, Megalomania, Multiple Personalities, Obsession/Cmnptdsion, Paranoia, Phobia, 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Puppeteerism, Regression, Sadism, Schizophrenia 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Choosing Flaws 
Representing specific deficiencies or drawbacks aside from inherent weaknesses 
common to many people, Flaws showcase particular problems. As with Negative 
Traits, Flaws grant additional Traits to the user. Each Flaw is rated in terms of its value, 
ranging from one to sevenTraits. The higher the value, the more debilitating the Flaw. 
A character may total up to seven Traits of Flaws and receive compensation for them; 
a player may take more Traits of Flaws than that, with Storyteller permission, but 
receives no Free Traits for them. 
Flaws begin on p. 163, with the listings for Merits and Flaws. 
Free T’raits 
Because no two imbued are alike, each character gets an allotment of Free Traits 
to spend on any area of development desired. If you want your character to be socially 
adept but also intelligent, for instance, you can use Free Traits to improve your 
Attributes so that you have a high number of Traits in both categories. You could 
decide to use Free Traits for extra Backgrounds if your character has strong connec- 
tions to his community, or for Merits to reflect special advantages that she has. 
Each character gets five Free Traits in this stage. Additional Free Traits are 
earned from Negative Traits, Flaws or Derangements taken earlier. One Negative 
Trait grants a single Free Trait; a Derangement is worth two Bonus Traits and Flaws 
have variable values listed individually. 
One Free Trait can be spent to take an additional Attribute Trait, up to a maximum 
One Free Trait allows for an additional Ability Trait. 
A single Free Trait allows you to declare a specialization in one Ability Trait. 
Remember that each Ability can only have one specialization, unless the Story- 
teller decides otherwise. 
One Free Trait converts to an additional Background Trait, though subject to 
normal Storyteller approval. 
One Free Trait buys an additional Conviction Trait, up to a maximum total of eight 
ConvictionTraitsfor astartingcharacter. This is a one timeonlypurchase, anddoes 
not affect the character’s starting Conviction for determining what he “resets” after 
buying Virtue Traits or between games. 
of eight Attribute Traits in one category. 
Three Free Traits allow for an extra Willpower Trait. 
Merits have a variable Free Trait cost, dependent upon the individual Merit. 
Virtues and edges cannot be purchased with Free Traits. Period. 
Choosing Merits 
The antithesis of Flaws, Merits represent special bonuses and capabilities beyond 
the norm. Each Merit is rated in terms of its Trait value. To take a Merit, you must 
expend Free Traits equal to the Merit’s value. You can take no more than seven Traits 
of Merits, unless you receive special permission from the Storyteller to do so. 
Merits start on p. 150, with the Merits and Flaws section. 
Step five: Spark of life 
Your character is more than a summation of Traits and adjectives. At this stage, 
take the concepts that you’ve emphasized and develop a story for your character. Look 
1
1
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I 
for explanations to why the character learned certain things, failed in others and 
developed as she did. Think about the sort of person you’re playing and the motives 
of the individual. 
Longtime Mind’s Eye Theatre players will doubtless note that this section is 
substantially more involved than usual. This is done quite deliberately, as paradoxi- 
cally we’ve found that creating the kind of ordinary people that Laws of the 
Reckoning is about requires a bit more attention to background detail than what it 
takes to make a supernatural bad-ass of one kind or another. 
Life Before the Call - 
Think about the ordinary person your character was before 
the Heralds changed her forever. Where and when were you born? How were you 
raised? What was the neighborhood like? Did you fight for attention in a large 
family, or were you an only child who couldn’t escape the spotlight? What were your 
childhood dreams? Who were your friends, and how did you meet them? Do you still 
see them, or have you grown apart? What sort of education did you have, if any? Did 
you feel that you had a “calling” before the imbuing, or were you drifting in search 
of a purpose? Were there any particu 
lar successes, failures, romances 
or business ventures in your life? 
The Imbuing - 
In some games, the i 
will take place during play, but if it 
doesn’t it is up to you to determine what 
d during your imbuing. (Remem- 
her to run it by your Storyteller before fi 
it, since she may have additional 
required themes or plot hooks to in 
s well.) As it is the single most 
influential event in the character’s new life, it’s best to sit down and spend as much 
time as possible figuring out the details of this mysterious and often frightening time. 
How the Messengers first revealed themselves to a character and what her first 
they make themselve 
Talk to them? Watch and wait from a 
Did some of them fail? Was anyone 
drafted into a war you wanted no 
you’ve been hoping for all his life, 
you’ve worked so hard to build? Of course, there’s also the enemy as well: What are 
your feelings about monsters? Their origins? Their motivations? And what about 
the Heralds? Does you consider them blessed saviors of humanitv, cruel tormentors, 
disinterested researchers or something else entirely? 
Inherit the Earth - 
Of course, a hunter doesn’t just deal with mysterious creatures 
and abstract Heralds on her own; most imbued quickly find others of their kind, and 
fitting into this whole new society presents its own benefits, problems and questions. 
Take a moment to figure out the extent of how much your character interacts with 
other imbued and deals with hunter society in general. Do you log onto hunter-net 
often? Are you looking to run with a group, or do you prefer to keep to yourself most 
of the time? If you are part of a group already, how did you meet and why have you 
stayed together? What are your feelings about the other creeds and their adherents? 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Your own creed members? Have vou made anv sDecial allies. on the hunter-net or 
, .  
in person? Have you made any enemies? If you have trouble figuring out why your 
hunter would show up in the game, much less play nicely with the other characters 
you find there, askaNarratoror Storyteller to help withacoupleofpossiblemotives. 
Ethics and Ideals - 
While a character’s choice of creed weighs heavily on some of 
these answers, there can be a surprising variety in the responses even within the 
same creed. After all, even a frothing Avenger might have sworn never to kill 
women or children (monstrous or not), and an otherwise harmless Innocent might 
react with surprising ruthlessness if a monster messes with one of her close friends. 
Whether they are explicitly stated or just intuitively recognized, everyone has some 
code of ethics they live by, however noble or self-serving it might be. What are your 
moral boundaries? What acts are justified by your beliefs? What acts aren’t? What 
would you never do (or at least do you hope you never have to do)? Do you have a 
rigid code of beliefs, or are you more 
judging things on a case-by-case basis? 
access to certain pieces of special gear. Whether you have a leather jacket, a 
handgun or a wad of cash, you should talk to your Storyteller to make sure that your 
character’s gear is accounted for. You can have a card for each special item that you 
carry, representing the object 
y for weapons, armor and other 
conspicuous devices that you 
around in real life). 
Quirks-Everybody 
hasdistincti 
nything from a habit of saying “For 
the love of Mike!” to cackling inst 
ghing to pulling your lip when you’re 
concentrating - 
such a mannerism 
o show off your character’s uniqueness. 
A quirk might even be used to dist 
you when in disguise- or its absence 
might warn your comrades if a 
n control of your mind somehow. 
Rrche types 
Each archetype describes an essential form of personality. Though a character is 
more than a simple set of drives, an archetype provides a basic springboard from which 
the character’s motives and behaviors can develop. An archetypal Nature shows the 
underlying elements making up a personality, while archetypal Demeanor is the face 
the character shows to the world around him. 
In game play, a character’s Nature archetype serves to provide a framework for 
setting concrete goals and codes of behavior. However, if someone discovers your 
character’s Nature, it can be used against you to force a Social Challenge if the 
opponent tries to convince you to do something in line with your Nature. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Example: Jimmy has Penitent as his Nature, since he has newerforgiwen himselffor his 
part in the accident that killed his girlfriend. Faced with a weepingrot that swears it’s merely 
trying to right apast wrong, Jimmy wants to destroy the creature anyway, but his teammate 
Chris thinks itshouldbesparedinstead. As they hawe beenclosefiendsforawhile, Chris has 
learned what Jimmy’s Nature is, and realizes now how it might be wed to help him relate to 
another being seeking atonement. When their debate starts to break down, Chris calls for a 
Social Challenge on the grounds ofJimmy’s Penitent Nature, forcingJimmy to bid two Traits 
ifhe wants to contest the challenge. Jimmy relents instead and wearily agrees that maybe even 
a monster deserwes a second chance sometimes. 
Once per session, a character may also use his Nature to call for one retest on a 
related challenge, as he calls upon the very core of his personality to give him strength 
to succeed. However, this is best done sparingly indeed, as he must use his Nature as 
his bid - 
“I’m too much of a Bravo to back down from you!” thus giving his enemy a 
valuable piece of information that might be used against him in the future. Unless 
otherwise noted or given Storyteller approval, this retest cannot be used on edge- 
related tests. 
Analyst - 
Anything can be understood with the right information, and you tackle 
Architect - 
You hope to leave a lasting legacy, to build something for the future. 
Autocrat -You 
want to take charge, since nobody else can do the job right. 
Bon Vivant - 
Only a good time can assuage your otherwise empty existence. 
Bravo -Other people only get in your way of doing things, and you do not hesitate 
the unknown with reason and curiosity. 
to bully them into line. 
Caregiver - 
You protect and comfort others. 
Celebrant - 
You find joy springs from your overriding passion. 
Child - 
You need others to nurture and help you. 
Conformist - 
You take the lead and the cues from someone else, letting others 
Conniver - 
There’s no point to doing it yourself when you can get someone else 
Crusader - 
You have a clear vision of the world as a better place, and try to affect 
Curmudgeon -Nothing’s perfect, everything sucks and you’re going to make sure 
Director - 
You feel an overriding need to impose order around yourself. 
Dreamer - 
You live in a world of art and ideals, and aspire to share your creative 
Eccentric - 
Considered bizarre by others, you know that predictability is the true 
Engine - 
Once you have your sights set on something, nothing distracts you, 
Evangelist - 
Not only do you live for your cause, but you take great joy in showing 
Explorer - 
You search for the new and unknown, and are forever looking for a new 
Fanatic - 
One cause, one truth, one purpose - 
you serve and proselytize with 
handle the responsibility. 
to put in the effort. 
this change through action and example. 
that everybody knows it. 
visions with others. 
enemy, and strive to live by your own rules and in your own style. 
nothing stops you, nothing gets under your skin until you achieve your goal. 
others the beauty of it as well. 
and better way of doing things. 
absolute conviction. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


-I 
Gallant - 
Everything you do is geared toward flamboyance and excess, since you 
Monster -You 
delight in wicked and sadistic acts of all kinds, and think nothing 
Nonpartisan -You 
take what you are given for what it is in itself, without outside 
Paragon -You 
live by strong moral and ethical principles, and deal with others in 
Penitent - 
You have sinned, and cannot rest until you atone for it. 
need the attentions of those around you. 
of using and abusing others on the slightest whim. 
prejudices clouding the issue. 
an honest and straightforward manner. 
Perfectionist - 
You do everything with wholehearted zeal aimed at immaculate 
Provider - 
You work hard to give a good life to your family (real or adopted), and 
Rebel - 
Whether from habit or drive, you lash out at the system and try to break 
Rogue - 
First and foremost, you look out for number one. 
Solider - 
Armed with competence and determination, you face challenges head on 
and do your best to see your companions through as well. 
Stoic - 
You take life in stride, and seldom let your emotions show. 
Survivor -Nothing 
stops you, for your drive to pull through is indomitable. 
Teacher -Everyone 
can learn from your example and experiences; you were born 
Traditionalist -The 
old ways are the best ways, so you preserve and protect them 
Trickster - 
Existence is fundamentally absurd, so you fill it with humor and 
completion; there’s no excuse for flawed efforts. 
ask only that you receive some recognition in return. 
it down. 
to instruct others. 
even in light of your new existence. 
irreverence to avoid looking too deeply at the pain. 
The Traits that describe your character’s innate capabilities are called Attributes. 
These Attributes are used in the game to perform actions and overcome obstacles. 
While certain situations may also require Abilities, such matters are a function of 
training. Even with the appropriate training, you must call upon your own strengths 
to finish the tasks set before you. 
When you enter a situation with a questionable outcome, you bid a Trait 
appropriate to the challenge. If you are trying to knocksomeone over, for instance, you 
might bid the Physical Trait Bramy as you use your strength. The nature of the 
challenge determines the Trait used - 
Physical, Social or Mental. 
You should try to bid a Trait appropriate to the nature of each given challenge. 
That is, using your strength may call upon the Brawny Trait but not the Dexterous 
Trait. If you and your opponent agree, you can use other Traits, but in general, choose 
Traits fitting to the challenge. 
Remember, when you bid a Trait for a challenge, you risk that particular Trait. 
If you fail the challenge, you may temporarily lose the use of the Trait, as you exhaust 
your resources and lose your confidence. Some situations may require the use of an 
additional Trait or more - 
any time that you are considered “bids down,” you must 
risk additional Traits. Conversely, if you are listed as “Traits up” or “Traits down,” you 
modify your current number of Traits when comparing for overbids or ties. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
I 
I 
For the purposes of determining what kinds of Traits are appropriate to specific 
challenges, the Trait listings include a run-down of what sorts of Traits fit into what 
specialized categories. For example, the Physical Trait Resilient is appropriate for 
resisting physical torture, because it is a Stamina-related Trait. Of course, you can 
ignore these categories if you wish, in favor of speeding up the game. Remember, 
unique situations may allow Traits to be used in unusual ways. 
New players may find it easier to bid a generic Trait from the appropriate pool 
instead of picking a specific one. This allows them time to get the hang of the system. 
When they're more comfortable with bidding, then start having them choose specific 
Traits. 
Trait Maximums 
As hunters soon become painfully aware in their encounters with the supernatu- 
ral, there are definite limits to human potential- 
while certain edges, Merits or other 
Traits may temporarily raise a hunter over these ratings, in no instance may they 
permanently acquire more Traits in one category than their listed limit. Thus, a 23- 
year-old hunter may not have more than 12 Traits in any one Attribute category, while 
a 16-year-old character is limited to nine Traits in any of the categories. These 
maximums apply equally to hunters, bystanders and regular people; after all, as edges 
and the sight have repeatedly borne out, the imbued are still essentially no different 
from ordinary folks. 
It should be noted that the Trait maximums are grouped not out of ageism, but 
from the philosophy that the very young have not yet developed their full potential, 
and while older people may have a wealth of experience behind them (usually 
represented with high Abilities, Backgrounds and Willpower ratings), they often do 
not have the same immediate faculties of younger individuals. Naturally, Storytellers 
are free to adjust these maximums as they see fit - 
for example, if they want a game 
centered around older or younger characters than normal - 
but remember that these 
limits have been created for the sake of game balance and realism as well. so take 
according care before modifying them. 
Physical T'raits 
Strength-related: 
Dexterity-related: 
Stamina-related: 
Miscellaneous Physical: 
Agile: 
Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry 
Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimbk, Quick 
Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tirekss 
&le, Brutal, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigorous 
You have a well-honed and flexible body. You can bend, 
twist, run and jump with ease. 
Uses: Acrobatics. Athletics. Competitive events. Dodging. 
Bulky, muscular strength. 
Brawny : 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Brutal: 
Dexterous: 
Enduring: 
Energetic: 
Ferocious: 
Graceful: 
Lithe: 
Nimble: 
Quick: 
Resilient: 
Robust: 
Rugged: 
Stalwart: 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when 
your goal is to inflict damage. Power lifting. All feats of 
strength. 
You are capable of taking nearly any action in order to 
survive. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. Settling a 
score. 
General adroitness and skill involving the use of one’s 
hands. 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms). 
Pickpocketing. Punching. 
A persistent sturdiness against physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this is a good Trait 
to risk as a second, or successive, bid. 
A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal drive propels 
you and, in physical situations, you can draw on a deep 
reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal. 
Uses: Combat. 
Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical deter- 
mination. 
Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. 
Control and balance in the motion and use of the entire 
body. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your 
balance. 
Characterized by flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging and dancing. 
Light and skillful; able to make agile movements. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to- 
hand combat. 
Speedy, with fast reaction time. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodg- 
ing, attacking. 
Characterized by strengthofhealth; able to recover quickly 
from bodily harm. 
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against 
damage in an attack. 
Resistant to physical harm and damage. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance- 
related actions that could take place over a period of time. 
Hardy, rough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off 
wounds and pain to continue struggling. 
Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you 
enter while injured. 
Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition. 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground 
against overwhelming odds or a superior foe. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
i 
I 
1 I 
Steady: 
Tenacious: 
Tireless: 
More than simply physically dependable: controlled, 
unfaltering and balanced. You have firm mastery over 
your efforts. 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations. 
Physically determined through force of will. 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
You have a runner's stamina - 
you are less taxed by 
physical efforts than ordinary people. 
Uses: Any endurance related challenge, second or subse- 
quent Physical Challenge with the same foe or foes. 
A harsh, aggressive attitude and a reluctance to ever 
submit. 
Uses: Whenever you're wounded or winded. 
A combination of energy, power, intensity and resistance 
to harm. 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you're on the 
defensive. 
Wiry: 
Tight, streamlined, muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling on combat. Acro- 
batic movements. Endurance lifting. 
Tough: 
Vigorous: 
Decrepit: 
Delicate: 
Docile: 
Flabby: 
Lame: 
Lethargic: 
Puny: 
Sickly: 
1I
flegatire Physical Traits 
Clumsy: 
Cowardly: 
Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You 
are prone to stumbling and dropping objects. 
In threatening situations, saving your own neck is all that 
is important. You might even flee when you have the 
upper hand, just out of habit. This is a Physical Trait 
because it most often applies to physical danger. 
You move and act as if you are old and infirm. You recover 
from damage slowly, are unable to apply full muscular 
strength and tire easily. 
Frail and weak in structure; you are easily damaged by 
physical harm. 
The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits; you 
lack physical persistence and tend to submit rather than 
fight long battles. 
Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your 
strength well against resistance. 
You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can 
be as obvious as a missing leg or as subtle as adysfunctional 
arm. 
Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy 
or motivation. 
You are weak and inferior in strength. This could mean 
diminutive size. 
Weak and feeble. Your body responds to physical stress as 
if it were in the throes of a debilitating illness. 
I 
1I
Y a 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Social T'raits 
Charisma-related: 
Manipulation-related: 
Appearance-related: 
Miscellaneous Social: 
Alluring: 
Beguiling: 
Charismatic: 
Charming: 
Commanding: 
Dignified: 
Diplomatic: 
Elegant: 
Eloquent: 
Empathetic: 
Expressive: 
Charismatic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Expressive, 
Genial 
Beguiling, Commanding, Ingratiating, Persuasive 
Alluring, Elegant, Gorgeous, Magnetic, Seductive 
Diplomatic, Empathetic, Intimidating, Friendly, Witty 
An attractive and appealing presence that inspires desire 
in others. 
Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
The skill of deception and illusion. You can twist the 
perceptions of others and lead them to believe what suits 
you. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. 
The talent of inspiration and motivation, the sign of a 
strong leader. 
Uses: In situations involving leadership or the achieve- 
ment of leadership. 
Your speech and actions make you appear attractive and 
appealing to others. 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This implies 
skill in the control and direction of others. 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. 
Something about your posture and body carriage appears 
honorable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself 
well. 
Uses: Defending against Social Challenges. 
Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few 
are displeased with what you say or do. 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Refined tastefulness. Even though you don't need money 
to be elegant, you exude an air of wealth and high society. 
Uses: High society parties. Defending against Social Chal- 
lenges. 
The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing 
manner. 
Uses: Convincing others. Swayingemotions. Public speak- 
ing. 
Able to identify and understand the emotions and moods 
of people with whom you come in contact. 
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. Offering sympathy. 
Able to articulate your thoughts in interesting, 
meaningful ways. 
Uses: Producing art of any kind. Acting. Performing. Any 
social situation in which you want someone to understand 
your meaning. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


r- I 
I 
I 
I I I 
1 
f 
I 
 
Friendly: 
Genial: 
Gorgeous: 
Ingratiating: 
Intimidating: 
Magnetic : 
Persuasive: 
Seductive: 
Able to fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short 
conversation, most find it difficult to dislike you. 
Uses: Convincing others. 
Cordial, kindly, warn and pleasant. You are pleasing to be 
around. 
Uses: Mingling at parties. Generally used in a second or 
later Social Challenge with someone. 
Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and 
body that is good-looking to most people you meet. 
Uses: Modeling, posing. 
Able togain the favor ofpeoplewhoknow you. 
Uses: Dealingwithhigh-powered people inasocialsituation. 
Defending against Social Challenges. 
A frightening or awesome presence that causes others to feel 
tirnid.ThisTrait isparticularlyusefulwhenattemptingtocow 
opponents. 
Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others. 
People feel drawn to you; those around you are interested 
in your speech and actions. 
Uses: Seduction. First impressions. 
Able to propose believable, convincing and correct argu- 
ments and requests. Very useful when someone else is 
undecided on an issue. 
Uses: Persuading or convincing others. 
Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and 
your body to get what you want from others. 
Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily to you, and 
you are perceived as a funny person when you want to be. 
Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or in- 
sulting someone. 
i
1
P 
5 
I 
1
1I 
Uses: Subterfuge, seduction. 
I 
Negative Sesial Traits 
Callous: 
You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffer- 
ing of others - 
or at least it seems that way when others 
meet you. 
You just can't help it; your contempt for others is impos- 
sible to hide, even for a short period of time. 
Those with whom you speak usually find you boring and 
uninteresting. Conversing with you is a chore. You do not 
present yourself well to others. 
Real or imagined, something about your presence un- 
nerves normal people and other hunters alike, and they 
don't spend time with you. 
You've had too many late nights, missed meals and close 
calls since the hunt began, and it shows -you appear very 
seedy, unkempt and worn-out. 
Condescending: 
Dull: 
Eerie: 
Haggard: 
Witty: 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Naive: 
Obnoxious: 
Repugnant: 
Scarred: 
Shy: 
Tactless: 
Untrustworthy: 
Mental Traits 
Perception-related: 
Intelligence-related: 
Wits-related: 
Miscellaneous Mental: 
Astute: 
Attentive: 
Clever: 
Creative: 
Cunning: 
Dedicated: 
Determined: 
You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication or maturity 
that most carry. 
You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or 
appearance. 
Whether due to a congenital malformity or simply an 
extremely slovenly lifestyle, your appearance disgusts even 
most well-meaning people. 
You bear prominent physical scars or other noticeable 
permanent injuries of some kind that are both memorable 
and disturbing to others. 
You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant, 
whether due to some previous trauma or just a natural 
inability to approach others. 
You are unable to do or say things that others find 
appropriate to the social situation. 
You are rumored or perceived to be unreliable, whether or 
not you really are, and have a hard time getting others to 
open up to you. 
Attentive, Discerning, Insightful, Observant, Vigilant 
Cunning, Disciplined, Knowkdgeabk, Rational, Refkctive 
Astute, Ckver, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily 
Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Patient, Wise 
Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly 
when it occurs. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. 
You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. 
When something extraordinary happens, you are usually 
ready for it. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. 
Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well on your 
feet. 
Uses: Using a Mental Challenge against another. 
Your ideas are original and imaginative. This implies an 
ability to produce unusualsolutions to yourdifficulties. You 
can create artistic pieces. Arequirement for any true artist. 
Uses: Creating anything. 
Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity. 
Uses: Tricking others. 
You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of 
your causes is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed. 
Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs 
are at stake. 
When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully com- 
mitted. Nothing can divert your intentions to succeed 
once you have made up your mind. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


* L r -  
f 
Uses: Facedowns. Useful in a normal Mental Challenge. 
i 
I 
i 
i 
f 
I 
Discerning: 
Disciplined: 
Insightful: 
Intuitive: 
Knowledgeable: 
Observant: 
Patient: 
Rational: 
Reflective: 
Resourceful: 
Shrewd: 
Vigilant: 
Discriminating, able to pick out details, subtleties and 
idiosyncrasies. You have clarity of vision. 
Uses: Investigation and tracking. 
Your mind is structured and controlled. This rigidity gives 
you an edge in battles of will. 
Uses: Facedowns. Useful in a Mental Challenge. 
The power of looking at a situation and gaining an 
understanding of it. 
Uses: Investigation (but not defense against it). 
Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you 
without conscious reasoning, as if by instinct. 
Uses: Spontaneous deduction. 
You know copious and detailed information about a wide 
variety of topics. This represents “book-learning.” 
Uses: Remembering information your character might 
know. 
Depth of vision, the power to look at something and 
notice the important aspects of it. 
Uses: Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
Tolerant, persevering and steadfast. You can wait out 
extended delays with composure. 
Uses: Facedowns or other mental battles after another 
Trait has been bid. 
You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your 
ability to reduce concepts to a mathematical level helps 
you analyze the world. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental at- 
tacks. Defending against an aura reading. Not used as an 
initial bid. 
Meditative self-recollection and deep thought. The Trait 
of the serious thinker, Refictive enables you to consider all 
aspects of a conundrum. 
Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending 
against most Mental Challenges. 
You work well with what you have on hand, whether in 
terms of projects and raw materials or people and problem. 
solving. 
Uses: Creating something, especially with limited means. 
Improvising on a test where you don’t have what you 
normally need. 
Astute and artful, able to keep your wits about you and 
accomplish mental feats with efficiency and finesse. 
Uses: Defending against mental attacks. 
Alertly watchful. You have the disposition of a guard dog; 
your attention misses little. 
i
I
b I
I
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Wily: 
Uses: Defending against investigation. More appropriate 
for mental defense than for attack. 
Sly and full of guile. Because you are wily, you can trick 
and deceive easily. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing 
mental situations. 
An overall understanding of the workings of the world. 
Uses: Giving advice. Dispensing snippets of Zen. 
Wise: 
Negative Mental Traits 
Forgetful: 
Gullible: 
You have trouble remembering even important things. 
Easily deceived, duped or fooled. 
Ignorant: 
Impatient: 
Oblivious: 
Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know 
anything. 
Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You 
want everything to go your way - 
immediately. 
Unaware and unmindful. You'd be lucky if you noticed an 
airplane flying through your living room. 
Predictable: 
Shortsighted: 
Squeamish: 
Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strang- 
ers can easily figure out what you intend to do next. 
Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial; 
details of perception are usually lost on you. 
You have a weak stomach for the nastier parts of life. 
When faced with disturbing sights or unpleasant truths, 
you tend to lose your cool (or your lunch) and do anything 
you can to get away from the source of your discomfort. 
No backbone; you relent and surrender at any cost rather 
than stand up for yourself. 
An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into rages at the 
slightest provocation, and a destructive fit of anger is 
never too far from the surface. This is a Mental Trait 
because it represents mental instability. 
Your experiences on the hunt have changed how you 
think so drastically that you have trouble relating to 
normal people and situations anymore. This is a Mental 
Trait because it relates to problem-solving. 
Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Fool- 
ish and slow to act when threatened. 
Submissive: 
Violent: 
Warped: 
Witless: 
Wbili ties 
The particular bits of knowledge learned over the years, the tricks of the trade and 
the hard-won secrets of crafts are all Abilities. A character's Ability Traits represent 
special training or talent, and as such often allow performance of tasks that would be 
otherwise impossible. Even with more mundane situations, Abilities allow for a much- 
improved chance of success. 
When a character performs a risky or uncertain action, Abilities aid the 
outcome. If you try a task and fail, you can temporarily expend one of your 
I
1
1
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


r- I 
‘I 
1 
c 
I 
I 
i 
I 
appropriate Abilities, immediately gaining a retest. You lose the Ability used and 
the initial Trait(s) bid for the task (if any) because you lost the initial test, but you 
can still overcome the challenge. Abilities used like this are recovered at the next 
game session. 
A character with multiple levels in a given Ability is certainly more experi- 
enced and proficient than an individual with just one. Most characters will fall 
into one to three levels of Ability; greater amounts are very rare, and anything 
beyond five levels is certainly superhuman (beware those elder monsters). The 
total level of Ability in a given field roughly corresponds to the character’s 
professional capabilities, as illustrated in the accompanying chart. 
Number of Traits 
One Trait 
Two Traits 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
Five Traits 
Level of Accomplishment 
Competent: Able to earn a living 
Professional: Licensed, capable of supervision 
Journeyman: Bachelor’s degree or instructor 
Expert Master’s degree or researcher 
Master: Doctorate degree or true innovator 
Some tasks are simply too difficult, or require too much skill to be attempted by 
a character without the requisite Abilities. The Storyteller may occasionally require 
the possession or use of an Ability Trait to perform a specific task. In this case, 
characters without the Ability, or who have already used all of their levels of the 
Ability, cannot attempt the task at all. 
When an Ability is used against a set scenario or object (such as using Security to 
pick a lock), the feat usually has a difficulty assigned by the Storyteller. In such a Static 
Challenge, you may be required to risk a Trait for a trivial task, or even be asked to bid 
two or more Traits for a difficult, risky or frustrating undertaking. 
Some Abilities can be used against an opponent instead of facilitating a regular 
task. In this case, the Ability is expended to gain a retest in a challenge with the 
opponent. See the rules for challenges and retests on p. 237 for complete details. 
busing abilities 
A few Abilities specifically require a concentrated area of study. One cannot 
simply study all Crafts at once, after all. These Abilities are specifically noted in the 
descriptions. When you take such an Ability, you must choose an area of study, a 
specific topic that you have concentrated on. Each area is considered a separate 
Ability, so Science: Biology counts completely separately from Science: Metallurgy, for 
instance. 
ability Specializations 
Within a given area of expertise, some practitioners further hone their knowl- 
edge to a razor’s edge. By choosing a specialization in an Ability, you hone your skills 
with a particular facet of that talent. 
Ability Specializations are a wholly optional rule. Remember to ask your 
Storyteller before taking a specialization. 
Taking a specialization requires that you spend one Experience Trait or Free Trait 
on an Ability that you already have. Then, you can declare a particular specialization. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Whenever you perform a task with that specialization - 
even if you do not expend 
the Ability -you 
gain a one+Trait bonus on resolution of challenges, as long as you 
have at least one level of the Ability left. You may only have one specialization in any 
given Ability; you cannot take Firearms: Pistols and Firearms: Rifks together, for 
instance. You also can never gain more than one Bonus Trait at a time from 
specializations, even if more than one would be appropriate to a given challenge. That 
is, even if you have Medicine: Physiology and Science: Biology Research, you only get a 
one-Trait bonus on a test of biochemistry, despite your multiple specializations. 
A specialization is a fairly narrow area of research or practice. You cannot, for 
instance, take a Firearms specialization in “guns,” nor could you have an Occult 
specialization of “writing.” An appropriate specialization refers to one small class of 
items or to one type of practice within the Ability, such as Firearms: Antique Pistols or 
Occult: Superstitions. 
You may take a specialization in an Ability with an area of study. In such a case, 
you concentrate your research in one particular facet of that sub-Ability, or in one 
application of it. Thus, you could have Craft: Woodworking with a specialization in 
Hidden Panels, or Science: Botany with a specialization in Exotic Flora. 
Note that the Bonus Trait from a specialization does not have an adjective and 
is not bid or used like other Traits. You simply are “one Trait up” on challenges within 
the specialization. 
Example: As an ex-military Avenger, Bishop is familiar with most types ofguns, but 
he has especially extensive training with sniper rifks. He has the Ability: Firearms x 3 with 
the specialization: Sniper Rifles. When Bishop engages afoe in a firefight, he normally uses 
his six Mental Traits. With a sniper rifk , however, he has seven Mental Traits because of his 
intense training. Of course, if he gets tired out or wounded (loses several challenges), he may 
not have as many Traits, but as longus he has at leust one level of his Firearms Ability left, 
he gets to add the one Bonus Trait to his remaining Mental Trait total. 
Academics 
You possess a level of education and general knowledge beyond rudimentary 
schooling. With Academics, you can express artistic criticism, debate the classics, 
consider philosophy and indulge in studies of culture. This broad Ability covers all 
sorts of humanities in learning. 
Academics allows you to recognize historical, art and cultural references. You can 
use Academics when working in such fields, when developing a critique or researching. 
Calling upon Academics Ability may require a Mental or Social Challenge to 
determine your exact level of competence. 
You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art 
Criticism, Classical Studies, History,Journulism, Theology or anything else that could be 
studied with higher education. 
Alertness 
You’re never caught unaware. You pay attention to your surroundings, and even 
if you aren’t particularly perceptive, you’ve learned to pick up on subtle cues. The 
information of your senses is immediately processed for danger signs and unusual 
signals. 
When you are Surprised, you may expend a Trait of Alertness to negate the 
Surprise. You may then respond normally, and can even activate reflexive edges or 
Conviction defense normally that turn. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
I I 
I 
”Your Mom Can Use a Flamethrrwer? Corl!” 
Silly as that quote might sound, it’s exactly the picture of a character that 
can develop if players get too carried away stocking up on “useful” Abilities like 
Firearms or Security and forget that the hunters they’re creating were regular 
people until very recently. Chances are these new hunters had fairly ordinary 
jobs and hobbies before their imbuing, with Abilities to match, and even those 
who go through particularly bloody rites of passage don’t automatically forget 
everything they once knew in favor offamiliarizing themselves with specialized 
lockpicking skills and the expert use of every weapon made since the 12th 
century. Likewise, unless they are active military personnel or otherwise 
practice combat forms regularly, they’re unlikely to have more than a Trait or 
two in any of the so-called “killing skills’’ - 
even if the player knows it would 
be helpful to have such Abilities, it doesn’t mean they should bend their 
concept out of shape to fit in 60 hours a week at the rifle range and black belts 
in six martial arts. 
In short, generally it’s best to try to aim for balance between portraying 
what a character knew before the imbuing and what they have learned since. 
While he does not have to be completely helpless in combat (it’s amazing how 
fast you learn when your life is on the line), it’s generally best to start with an 
absolute minimum level of such skills and focus instead on how he uses what 
he already knows to further their hunting efforts. After all, anyone can fight 
zombies with nine years of ninja training and the ability to shoot a hole in a 
falling dime from a half mile away in perfect darkness, but it takes real courage 
to be willing to fight anyway when you’ve got little else except your determi- 
nation to see you through. 
- 
- 
Animal Ken 
An imbued needn’t rely only his fellow humans to help him on the hunt; with a 
bit of training many animals can be useful allies as well, from guard dogs to trained 
horses and beyond. What’s more, a hunter with this talent can sometimes tell a natural 
animal from a supernatural spy or shapechanger just by observing its behavior, so in 
tune is he with the animals he studies. 
With Animal Ken, you can train an animal to perform particular behaviors (stay, 
fetch, attack), calm an enraged animal or attempt to deduce an animal’s state of being 
(injured, angry, frightened, etc.) with a Mental Challenge. If you work with an animal 
overalongperiodoftime (generallyamonthorso), youmaybeable to teachit asimple 
trick, up to a limit of one trick for each Mental Trait the animal has. 
Athletics 
Whether due to a background in sports or just personal talent, you are skilled in 
all manner of athletic endeavors. You can throw a ball, sprint, climb, jump and swim. 
Your Athletics Ability is used for retests on most forms of raw physical activity: 
acrobatics, swimming, jumping, throwing, climbing and running. You may choose to 
focus on something you do especially well. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Optional Rule: “Active Abilities” 
Thisoptionalrule isdesigned tosmoothoutplay andminimize thenumber 
of Static Challenges, as well as add an element of drama and risk to situations 
that are normally handled through some rather dry tests. Specifically, this rule 
covers different ways ofhandling two types ofAbilities: detectionskills such as 
Awareness, Security or Traps; and resisted skill pairs such as Stealth/Akrtness. 
DetectionSkills: InsteadofmakingaStaticChallenge anytime the player 
wishes to detect something through one of these Abilities, he must instead 
announce his intention to risk that particular Ability as he enters the area where 
he believes something related to it might be. If there is indeed something there 
for him to detect, heretains his level of that Ability and is alerted to the presence 
of the person or thing in the area - 
including allowing him to stop short of 
setting off a device or dangerous circumstance on the basis of such information. 
If there isn’t anything there to warrant the Ability risk, however, that level of 
the Ability is considered spent for the rest of the session, thus discouraging 
huntersfromriskingAbilitiesat every tumlest they losealloftheir levelsonred 
herrings. For example, a hunter who believes a door might conceal some kind 
of booby trap could announce “Risking Traps” and open the door - 
if there is 
a trap there, he keeps his 1evelofTraps and is considered to have noticed the trap 
before setting it off. If the door isn’t trapped, however, the hunter loses the Traps 
level that he risked, the penalty for a bad guess. 
Note that this does not replace the need for all Static Challenges - 
a 
character who detects a trap must still make a test to disarm it, while using 
Awareness todetect anunseenspirit before entering aroom might stillrequire 
a regular test to determine exactly where it is or how powerful its aura seems. 
Likewise, this rule does not apply to more in-depth skills such as Academics or 
Enigmas, only ones that might provide some kind of early warning. Ultimately, 
what Abilities can be risked in this fashion are up to the Storyteller, but she is 
encouraged to stress drama and mystery over simple Trait-maxing. 
Resisted Skill Pairs: With these skills, the character initiating the action 
she wishes toget awaywithmust announce theexpenditure ofan Ability Trait 
as she performs it; this Ability is considered spent, but unless another character 
also spends a level of an Ability that counteracts this use, he cannot react to it 
in any way. If an observer does have such a skill, it becomes a regular test of the 
appropriate type to see who prevails. For example, a character who wishes to 
peek around a comer without being caught may announce “Stealth!” as he 
pokes his head around the comer; if a guard spots him doing so, he may call out 
“Alertness!” and the two perform a regular test to see who prevails. Otherwise, 
those who see him should ignore it, as in-game they did not have the skill to 
catch such a stealthy character. Likewise, a character might spend a level of 
Streetwise to swipe an item from a table without being noticed, while onlookers 
could resist with Akrnwss or Investigation. This optional rule tends to bum 
through Abilities very quickly, but also offers a bit more realistic way of 
incorporating these Abilities in play without endless resisted challenges. 
Obviously, the Storyteller is the final arbiter of which Abilities may be 
used as resisted skill pairs, and to avoid any misunderstandings she should 
make it clear which Abilities can and cannot be employed in this fashion 
I
\
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
before play begins. Likewise, Narrators should take care that these 
Abilities are not abused in unrealistic ways if this optional rule is used - 
for 
example, it’s one thing to cross a shadowy room unseen by calling out a few 
levels of Stealth to move from one area of cover to another, but players who 
try to employ Stealth to walk openly down the middle of lighted corridors 
should quickly be brought back in line. Additionally, it bears noting that this 
optional rule newer applies to combat situations - 
such intense scenes are 
best left to regular game mechanics. However, when properly applied it can 
give players a bit more of an intimate way to look at their Abilities and how 
they work rather than simply throwing a few rock-paper-scissors tests. 
Awareness 
Although any hunter can summon the second sight to see the supernatural for 
what it really is, some have a knack for detecting the unnatural without the aid of 
Conviction.. . sometimes without paying it any particular attention at all. It should be 
noted that other imbued are not detected with this Ability, unless they are actively 
employing an edge, and even then it’s the edge that’s detected, not the fact that the 
person is a hunter. 
A hunter may make a Mental Challenge to attempt to detect the presence of a 
supernatural person, place or object -success means that she gets a telltale impression 
of the unnatural from the target, and might even be able to make a guess as to the type 
of creature or magic involved if she has encountered one before. Narrators should 
remember that while this Ability can sometimes replace some of the need to activate 
second sight, especially for experienced hunters, it provides none of the associated 
protections that activating Conviction defense does. In addition, Awareness must be 
used against targets individually, while second sight is automatically effective along 
the hunter’s line of sight. However, when used in combination they can be quite 
effective in alerting a hunter to hidden dangers or helping her conserve Conviction 
until it is truly needed. 
Brawl 
Back-alleys, martial arts schools and rough bars are your stomping ground. You 
might have military training, or maybe you just grew up with a passel of rough-and- 
tumble siblings. Whatever the case, you know how to dish out damage with your body 
in very effective ways. 
Use the Brawl Ability for retests in combat when you are using your natural 
weapons (fists, feet, etc.). This Ability is also the province of the martial arts, although 
you must specify which art when taking this Ability. 
Computer 
One thing astute imbued pick up on as they hunt is that many monsters have 
difficulty adapting to modem inventions. As a result, an understanding of cuttingedge 
technology makes for dangerous knowledge in the hands of a clever hunter. With 
Computer Ability, you understand how to use, program and access computers of all sorts. 
Use Computer with a Mental Challenge (difficulty determined by the Storyteller) 
to break into systems, alter data, write programs or figure out unfamiliar operations. 
Crafts 
You can build and repair things. Depending on your area of expertise, you know 
how to manufacture items and make handy tools or decorations. You must choose a 
focus for Crafts, specifying your form of creation: Carpentry, Clockworks, Blacksmithing, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Leatherworking and the like are all possibilities. You can fashion works of art, studying 
Painting, Drawing or similar physical media. Crafts also covers more technical skills 
done with labor, such as Mechanics and Electronics. 
Making or repairing an item with Crafrs usually involves a Physical Challenge of 
your dexterity, with difficulty set by the Storyteller based upon the type of job. 
Demolitions 
This Ability covers the knowledge to identify, build, place and disarm explosive 
devices of all kinds, from industrial dynamite charges to sophisticated military 
ordinance. A hunter may make a Mental Challenge to attempt to disarm any such 
devices she encounters, including booby-traps with explosive components. The 
difficulty of this test is based on the complexity of the device and the hunter’s 
familiarity with the type of explosive in question. 
She may also attempt to build and place such devices herself, provided she has 
sufficient time to work and access to the proper materials. All such attempts require 
a Mental Challenge as well, where the difficulty depends on type of device being 
created and/or the result the hunter is hoping to achieve with the explosion when she 
places it. Bear in mind that mere possession of bomb-making material or literature is 
a punishable crime in many countries, and even fairly ordinary explosives may be 
difficult or impossible for a regular citizen to obtain through legal channels. Of course, 
a hunter can always turn to less reputable sources for what she needs, but such shady 
dealings have risks of their own. (High levels ofArsenal and/or relevant Influences such 
as Underworld or Industry are all recommended for hunters who plan on making a habit 
of working with explosives.) 
Disguise 
While many monsters guard against illusions and other mystical disguises, no few 
are still fooled by the old-fashioned art ofclever makeup and a change of clothes, if only 
because they so seldom expect to be duped that way. Clever hunters can exploit this 
mentality to their advantage, using a mundane disguise to perform reconnaissance, 
escape unwanted attention, become prey to bait a trap or even infiltrate the ranks of 
the enemy. 
Creating a disguise requires a Mental Challenge, where the difficulty depends on 
how much of a change the hunter is trying to make. Appearing as a generic “someone 
else” is a difficulty of three Traits, appearing as a general type of individual (soldier, 
repair man, gang member, etc.) is a difficulty of five, and taking on the appearance of 
a specific person is a difficulty of seven. Appearing as someone of the opposite gender 
adds two to the difficulty of a test, and the Narrator should feel free to raise or lower 
the difficulty to accommodate other factors as well. Ideally, the player should also 
adopt the proper makeup, costuming and props to indicate the use of this Ability, but 
those features are not strictly necessary - 
all a player is required to do is wear a 
description tag marked “Disguise” that describes their altered appearance to other 
players, which must be displayed prominently for other players to notice. Other 
characters may make a Mental Challenge against the hunter to try to pierce the 
disguise, provided they have avalid in-game reason to be suspicious about the hunter’s 
identity 
Bear in mind that even though a hunter’s physical disguise may be flawless, she 
may still give herself away through inappropriate speech or behavior, especially when 
attempting to impersonate specific people or members of tightly knit groups. Thus, 
most hunters skilled in the craft of Disguise are equally skilled in Abilities such as 
Subterfuge and/or Perfmnce (Acting) to help maintain their cover, not to mention 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
i 
I 
I 
I 
taking time to do a bit ofresearchbeforehand. Likewise, evenacompletely convincing 
performance might still be disbelieved for reasons outside of the character’s control - 
no matter how well she looks or acts the part, if the bloodsucker’s bodyguards know 
for a fact that his lady love left last night for a two-month vacation, the hunter’s 
disguise isn’t going to work! 
Dodge 
When trouble rears its ugly head, you know how to get out of the way. 
Unhesitating reactions let you evade blows and shots, thereby avoiding injury. You 
can Dodge against any attack that you’re aware of: diving for cover as someone fires a 
gun or twisting away from a sword, for instance. Dodge may be used as a retest when 
defending against an attack that you can see or sense coming. 
Drive 
Though most people can drive in the modem age, you can drive well. You’re 
equally at home with a stick shift or an automatic, rush hour is of no concern, and you 
can get the most performance out of acar. In dangerous situations, you can evade traffic 
ed to allow you to figure out wher 
You are sensitive to the 
when people are lying or holding back 
With a Social Challenge and the 
determine if the last thing that someone 
meanor. 
Endurance 
er or sleep for long periods of 
24 hours straight without such 
adds another 12 hours to this time. Until this time is up he functions normally and 
suffer no penalties related to a lack of sleep or sustenance. In addition, each level of 
this Ability adds 15 seconds to how long a hunter can hold his breath, when applicable. 
This Ability has no effect on poisons, disease or wound penalties stemming from 
actual injuries of any kind, only “damage” done by lack of sleep or nutrition. Once a 
hunter’s Endurance level has been passed, he begins suffering penalties normally and 
loses his Endurance rating until he has time to replenish his reserves; one level of 
Endurance is regained for each full day of proper rest and nutrition he receives. 
Etiquette 
When one learns that monsters are real and stalk human prey daily, it may seem 
that knowing which spoon to use isn’t terribly important anymore, but a surprising 
amount of everyday interaction stilldepends onsocial graces, and you have themdown 
pat. You do know the proper way to greet someone, when to rise and how to make 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1’ 1 
I 
*I 
I i I 
-I 
introductions. You can hold a toast with the best of them and keep your cool in any 
social scenario, from high tea to a gang rally. 
The Etiquette Ability can be used with Social Tests to impress or blend in at 
parties. If you make a socialfaux pas, you may immediately expend an Etiquette Ability 
to negate the gaffe -your 
character knew better than to make the mistake. 
Expression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put pen to 
paper (or fingers to instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion and stirring imagery. 
You can convey message and meaning in your art, from symphonies to poetry, and 
whatever you write is both clear and moving. 
When writing or composing, you can sink true Expression into the work to make 
it stand out or be especially persuasive - 
the exact effects are up to the Storyteller, but 
in general a work with Expression in it is more noticeable than one without it. 
Finance 
The world of money and business awaits your whim. You understand interest, 
CDs, stock market transactions, currency exchanges and GNPs. A little Finance lets 
you make quite a bit of money. You can also use your Finance to balance books or run 
a business of your own. 
Hey, Where’s My <Insert Supernatural Critter. h r e ?  
You may notice that this chapter doesn’t include any of the various ‘‘Lure” 
Abilities found in other Mind’s Eye Theatre books, such as Kindred Lure or 
Garou Lore and so on. There’s a very simple reason for this: it’s not what Laws 
of the Reckoning is about. While the imbued inevitably learn about the various 
types of monsters that exist in the World of Darkness, such knowledge is best 
left to what the characters actually manage to acquire from spending long hours 
stalking hideous monsters to learn their weak points or frantically digging 
through crumbling old tomes in a creature’s haunted library - 
in other words, 
through the kind of events that game sessions are made of. Reducing the vast, 
mysterious world that the imbued have entered to a process of spending two or 
three Experience Traits to pick up all the practical information you need to 
know about a group of creatures is anticlimactic at best, and downright ruinous 
to the game’s atmosphere and tone at worst. 
Therefore, while of course you are free to do what you like on the subject 
of Lore Abilities, it is highly recommended that if they are included at all they 
should only be available to characters who have months or even years of in- 
game experience trying to learn more hard facts about the enemies they face. 
(See the Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal #3 article “Hunting Lores” for an 
excellent write-up of what different levels of h
e
 teach a character.) They 
should not just go to someone who says, “My character used to watch horror 
films, play roleplaying games and go to Goth clubs a lot, so I should have Vampire 
Lore x 2.” In the meantime, the more nebulous and uncertain (and therefore 
suspenseful) Abilities such as Occult and Awareness or Backgrounds like 
Exposure or Patron tend to suit Laws of the Reckoning much better. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Typically, you can run a business, follow a money trail, perform an audit or clean 
up an accounting mess with a Mental Challenge (difficulty dependent upon the task, 
as determined by the Storyteller). Alternately, you can expend a level of Finance 
Ability to raise $250 in cash between games. Not every use of Finance is so benign - 
money laundering operations have to come from somewhere. 
Firearms 
A little time at the gun range goes a long way. You know how to hold, fire and 
clean a gun. You can unjam one, too, and you can tell different models apart. You know 
how to stand to get the best aim, how to handle recoil and how to take care ofproblems 
in the field. 
If you possess Firearms Ability, you may use your Mental Traits for gun combat 
instead of using Physical Traits, at no cost. You can expend Firearms for a retest in 
ranged fire combat. 
Hobby/Professionamxpert Ability 
In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have achieved 
some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some work on the side, 
or perhaps you’ve specifically studied a topic. 
Hobby/Professional/E39ert Ability is a catch-all category for highly unusual areas 
ofstudy that aren’t covered by other Abilities already. This Ability is intended as a way 
to allow players to have skills that have been overlooked or which simply do not fit the 
mold of what is presented here, but not to design silly little specialized uber-skills like 
Vampire Slaying or the like. Any Ability of this type must be specifically approved by 
the Storyteller, and its capabilities defined by the Storyteller. 
Intimidation 
Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques for terrifying people 
into compliance. This could be anything from physical size, to a particularly frighten- 
ing grin, to knowing which emotional buttons to push. 
You can use Intimidation when trying to scare someone with a Social Challenge. 
Intuition 
A hunter with this Ability is intimately familiar with this natural “sixth sense” 
of humanity and trusts it as much, if not more, than what her normal senses or formal 
learning might be telling her otherwise. In game terms, this Ability has two uses: first, 
the imbued may spend a level of this Ability instead of a Willpower Trait if she wishes 
to perform a test with an Ability she doesn’t have, as she goes by pure instinct to 
attempt what would normally be outside her grasp. Second, she may spend a level of 
Intuition and make a Mental Challenge against six Traits when she’s confronted by a 
dead end, a choice to make or stumped by an enigma. Success means that she may ask 
the Narrator for a small hint to help her guess what she should do. (See the Vision edge 
Foresee for an idea of when and how such guesses can come into play.) 
This Ability is not equal to the power of even that basic edge, however, and 
Narrators should remember to treat it accordingly. It doesn’t simply beam ideas or 
information into a hunter’s mind fully formed, nor is it a danger sense or true 
navigation tool. It’s asubtle nudge, avague impression, afleetingfeeling leading in the 
right direction; in other words, enough for a Narrator to possibly help out a player 
who’s been stumped while trying to figure out a problem, but not a free pass out of 
danger or a shortcut for players to avoid real research with other Abilities. 
Investigation 
You know how to pick up clues and put together disparate pieces of information. 
By habit and training, you can set a jumbled mass of data in order, discovering 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


identities, motives and patterns in an otherwise chaotic scene. You can use Investiga- 
tion with a Mental Challenge when trying to puzzle out meaning of a random scene. 
Law 
Nobody is above the law, except those who know how to use it to their own 
advantage. You’re one of the latter. Perhaps you uphold the law, or maybe you twist 
it to your own ends. Your knowledge of Law allows you to understand legal processes, 
courts and lawyers, and to use them effectively. 
Use the Law Ability in court situations or with Social Challenges involving legal 
matters. Because the legal body is so vast, your Storyteller may require you to select a 
particular area of study (Criminal, Civil, Tax, etc.). 
Leadership 
When you speak, people listen. A good speaking voice and self-confidence lend 
a powerful presence to a leader. The Leadership Ability represents your ability to 
motivate people and to get them to follow your guidance. Even among those who do 
not know or respect you, you can command attention. 
You can use Leadership with a Social Challenge to try to get a minor favor or task 
from a character. 
Linguistics 
You’ve studied a language - 
or languages - 
other than your native tongue. 
Whether you’re an older hunter whose childhood language is no longer spoken, you 
frequent the global community, or it is necessary for other studies, you can speak, write 
and read other languages. 
You must choose one language for each level of Linguistics you possess. Thus, you 
could have Linguistics: Mandarin and Linguistics: German. Alternately, you can focus 
on the underlying study of Linguistics itself, granting some understanding of the 
principles behind the structure of language. Languages need not be spoken; American 
Sign Language or Egyptian hieroglyphics would also be considered fields for study. 
Those who wish to converse in another language (but cannot actually do so) should 
hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb making an L-shape to indicate to 
other players the characters are not speaking English. Those who wish to listen in must 
also possess the language. 
Note: You do not need not take this Ability to understand the symbols of the 
hunter code, although it might be helpful if you are inclined to try to understand 
exactly what they are or why hunters seem to instinctively understand them when no 
one else can. 
Medicine 
You know how the human body functions. You can speed the recovery and 
healing of an injured person, or use your knowledge to inflict injury. 
You can use the Medicine Ability to speed a person’s healing by one category: a 
Wounded person would heal as if Bruised, for instance. Medicine may be used for other 
sorts of research and lab work with a Mental Challenge. As Medicine is such a vast 
field, your Storyteller may require you to specify what you know (Pharmaceuticals, 
Internal Medicine, General Practice). 
Melee 
If you’ve got something in your hands, you’re a deadly fighter. Be it a sword, a 
stick, a set of nunchuku, you can use it to damaging effect. Expend Meke for retests in 
hand-to-hand combat when you are using a close combat weapon like a knife or a 
chair. Certain weapons function best when used by a wielder with Melee. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Occult 
The hidden world teems with mysterious secrets. By unlocking universal keys and 
studying the basics of spirituality, you can learn the shadowy paths of the cosmos. Your 
Occult Ability serves as a general knowledge of the supernatural, alerting you to the 
existence of many varied sorts of inhuman creatures and paranormal powers and 
events. 
Occult grants some basic (and sometimes erroneous) knowledge of the various 
denizens of the supernatural world; for more detailed information, study Expert Ability: 
Lore in your particular subject of interest, but be prepared to pay a high cost for it (both 
in experience and Experience). 
Performance 
You are a true virtuoso. Whatever your chosen medium, you have a gift for artistic 
endeavors. Whether playing an instrument, singing, dancing or acting, your skills 
allow you to entertain and even earn money. 
Your Performance Ability can be used to earn a modest income, just like other 
artistic trade skills. You must choose a specific art form when you take Perfomnce, 
such as playing an instrument, singing, acting or dramatic readings. Note that 
Perfomnce is generally anything done before an audience, while Expression most 
often focuses on literary works, and Crafts concentrates on the creation of physical 
objects (such as paintings or sculptures). 
Poisons 
Anyone can toss a few chemicals into food or drink in an effort to cause harm, but 
a hunter with this Ability has delved deeper into learning the delicate and dangerous 
art of concocting more professional (not to mention less traceable) poisons, as well as 
how to deliver them in ways a target will not expect or detect. Given enough time and 
resources, he might even be able to mix poisons designed to cause a specific reaction 
in their target, such as disabling a particular organ or sense, or incapacitating a foe 
rather than killing him. Naturally, such knowledge confers an equal aptitude for 
recognizing toxins and mixing antidotes as well. 
Generally speaking, brewing either a poison or an antidote requires a Mental 
Challenge of some kind, not to mention the necessary time and materials to mix. A 
person who suspects she is being targeted by poison must make a Mental Challenge to 
notice anything out of the ordinary, although some creatures with supernatural senses 
may be able to detect it long before it has a chance of harming them (Storyteller’s 
discretion). This Ability is also required if a hunter wishes to safely poison a melee 
weapon or other instrument without the threat of accidentally dosing herself in the 
process. 
Politics 
The world of influence-trading and favors is extensive among humans. Through 
observation, intrigue and a bit of spin-doctoring, you’ve learned how to handle 
appearances, what a speech really means, and where the deal-making is going on. In 
short, it’s Politics as usual. 
The Politics Ability is useful primarily in dealings with society or Influence. You 
may be able to manipulate the outcome of local political actions, with the proper 
Influence and some well-placed Social Challenges; Politics Ability insures that matters 
proceed in the direction that you desire. Politics is also used to discern hidden motives 
and broker deals, and as such is almost a requirement of would-be power brokers. The 
hierarchies of power are often visible: who is in charge of a group, or how much faith 
a team has in their leader, for example. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Aknowledge ofPolitics includes, by extension, anunderstanding ofthe bureaucratic levels 
ofpower. You know how to cut through red tape, or how to obstruct others with it. By 
determiningwho’simportant inagivenstrata,youcanusuallyavoidwastingtimeandsimply 
gostraight to thepersonwhohas thepowertodowhat youwant. 
Science 
ThemcdemInfomation Agesees theexplosionofallmannerofstudies. 
Categorizing 
andbreakmgdownthe worldintomany differentforms, themethodsoflogicandreasongive 
humanity themeans tounderstand theuniverse, or at least small piecesofit. Education in 
Sclencecovers techniquesofinquiry, modemstudiesandabroadrangeofunderpinningwork 
inadiverserange offields. 
S m e  
Abilityrequiresanareaofparticular 
study: Blology, Chermsny, Physlcs,Medurgy, 
EkccricalEngineering,Mu&tnatm, Geology andBotuny are allpossibilities, thoughsuchallst is 
farfromcomprehensive. CombiningaSaence withdifferent fields may give awide variety 
results. For example, S m e :  Metallurgy with Acarkrmcs maygiveresultsregardinghistorical 
research and theory, while the same Saence withoccult may center onancient alchemy. 
Actually constructing objects or devices theorized w i t h S m e  may require use of the Crafts 
Ability. 
determinethesuccessofresearchortheviabilityoftheoreticalwork. 
UsingaparticularbranchofSclenceusuallyrequiresaMentalChallen 
experience in Secunty 
ey make their schedules 
can alsodefeat suchmeasures. 
use aPhysicalTraitrelated toDexterity whenattempting to bypass aphysicallockor alarm. 
Stealth 
By blendinginto cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully andquietly, you can 
evade noticeor sneak past people. Youknow how best to take advantage ofsurrounding cover 
andhow touse light andshadow. Opportunitiesforunnoticedmovement arenot lost on you, 
as youunderstandtheusesoftiming anddiversion. 
With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past the notice of 
guards andsearchers (whocontestyourAbilitywith theirMentalTraitsand Investigationor 
Akrmess Ability). 
Streetwise 
Word on the street is known to you. Even if you don’t have any particular friends or 
contactsin thearea, youknow aboutthedifferentcommunitiesandgangs thathangout in 
town.Yourecognize tagsing andother territorialmarkers, andknowsomeofthesig, colors 
andclothes that denote streetpeople, homeless, gangbangers, hoodlums, criminals and social 
workers. 
Streetwise Ability, withyourMentalTraits, lets yourecognize the influence ofvarious 
gangsorstreetcommunities. Youalsoknow aboutcriminalorganizationsandactivities, and 
could perform a little larceny yourself. An appropriate Social Challenge can help smooth 
dealingswithahostilegang (thoughyoumayneedEtiquette tomakeareallygoodimpression). 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Subterfuge 
There are many ways to talk about subjects, and equally many ways to uncover the mth 
of the matter. Even in idle conversation, people use little white lies, slip hints about their true 
motives, try to guide the course of discussion and give away their secrets indirectly. The art of 
S
~
~
g
e
 
is the art of reading these mcks and using them effortlessly. 
Whensomeoneconfrontsyouwithoneofyourownlies,youcanuse 
theSubterEAge Ability 
in your own defense (if someone uses the Empathr Ability, for instance). By guiding a 
conversation, you can also unearth someone’s Negative Traits; if you manage to steer 
conversation toaparticular topic in play, y o u c a n e x p e n d a S w  Ability and make aSocial 
Challenge to determine one of the subject’s Negative Traits related to the topic. 
Sunival 
Many monsters keep lairsfarfromcivilization, andonly afml woulddare totravel through 
difficult terrain in search of such terrible creatures without understanding at least basic 
wilderness lore. Survival Ability represents knowledge of terrain, how to find shelter, where to 
find water, techniques in hunting, and experience with edible and poisonous plants and fungi. 
Survival could also be used to help keep untrained companions alive. Generally speaking, 
characters withSurvivalcanprovideforasmanyadditionalunskilledpeopleastheyhavelevels 
inthis Abilitywithout unduestrain. Morethanthatnumberrequires increasinglydifficult tests. 
Surviving and avoiding danger in the wilderness usually relies on a Physical Challenge. 
You can substitute your Mental Traits if you so desire. 
Tactics 
Tactics allows hunters to use good planning and teamwork to help level the playing field 
a bit against the monsters they’re after. To use this Ability, the hunters must actually draw up 
and discuss a detailed plan of action, assigning responsibilities to different team members and 
ensuring that everyone involved knows at least their role and their objective. Team members 
whoaren’tpresentduringtheplanning,whodon’tpayattentiontothediscussion, 
whodisagree 
strongly or who otherwise choose not to participate in the plan cannot receive the benefit of 
this Ability (be honest). It should be noted that Tactics is not limited to just combat situations 
- 
rescue missions, infiltration efforts, shadowing a target and other such activities can all 
receive the benefits of Tactics, with the Storyteller’s approval. At the same time, a Narrator 
shouldensure that it the hunters uulyhave aplan, not just an intuitivecommand for everybody 
“to do what works for them” or a variation on the ever-popular “Get ‘em!” 
Once a plan has been finallzed, the hunter with the highest Tactics rating in the group 
makes a Mental Challenge against a difficulty of the number of people involved in the plan plus 
three. (Each additional hunter in the plan who has Tactics adds one Trait to the testing 
character’s total for the purposes of resolving ties.) Success means that the group receives a 
“ p ~ l ’ ’  
of retests equal to twice the testing character’s Tactics rating, plus an additional retest for 
each member who spends either a Tactics level or Willpower Trait at the end of the planning 
session. Eachcharactercanonlyaddoneretest tothepoo1inthisfashion.Theseretestsarethen 
distributedtothe teammembersby the testingcharacter,whetherthatmeansdistributingthem 
evenly among the group to keep the whole team an edge, or perhaps concentrating them on 
a few members with harder tasks (or to make up for some members with less ability). 
Once assigned, retests gained in this fashion can be used on any challenge made during 
the execution on the plan, provided the hunter is acting smctly according to the orders she was 
given. Only one Tactics retest may be used on any particular challenge, and it cannot be used 
in combination with other Ability retests on the same challenge. Hunting teams may make 
multiple plans with this Ability at once, but a character can only receive the benefits of one 
Tactics session each scene, regardless of how many plans she might execute during that time. 
Thus, a team cannot make redundant or overlapping plans in order to gain a large number of 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Think, Children, Think! 
Though it should go without saying, an interrogator should always respect 
both the rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre as well as the limits of her target and any 
onlookers when employing Torture, which means not being any more graphic 
about her work than everyone present is comfortable with. While it might seem 
a bit silly to some, it’s still a lot better to simply say “My character tortures you” 
now and again for 10 minutes if it means everyone will be comfortable with what’s 
going on, instead of accidentally going into too much grisly detail and making 
your target feel nauseous or unnerved out of game and thus ruining the scene for 
everyone. Likewise, players and Storytellers alike should take care that their 
actions do not disturb people outside of the game -few things will draw police 
attention faster than reports of what sounds like a girl being raped or a guy being 
murdered, and those are just a few of the reports that the neighbors might call in 
if players are heard screaming for mercy. 
retests. Additionally, ahunterwhodeliberatelygoes againstherorders, nomatterwhat the 
reason, immediatelyloses allbenefitsofthis Abilityfor the rest ofthescene. 
Torture 
Like it or not, those who know how to apply the correct pressures -physically or 
psychologically-andhavenoqualms aboutdoingsocanextract just about anything they 
want fromasubject, givenenough time to wear themdown. A torturer must select what method 
shewilluse toget information,eitherphysicalpunishmentorpsychologicaltactics. 
Depending 
onwhatmeth~shechmses,shemustmakeeitheraPhysicalorMentalChallengeagainstthe 
target’s Willpower, asshe sees fit. EachTurture sessiongenerallyrequires at least lOminutes to 
perform, and should be roleplayed as well as possible within the rules ofMind’s Eye Theatre. 
(Thissystemcanbeconsidered tosupersede the onegivenonpp. 33-34 oflaws of the Hunt.) 
At theendofthis time, andoncetheappropriate test ismade-ifsuccessful, thesubject 
losesa temporary WillpowerTraitandoffersup apieceornvoofinformation (hemay suffer 
some other bashing or even lethaldamage as well, depending on the methcdsused by the 
torturer).Cnceall ofhis WillpowerTraitsaregone, thesubjectbreaksandanswerswhatever 
questionsthe torturerrequiresas honestlyandcompletelyaspib1e.ThisprccessdifTerentiate.s 
this Abilityfrommeremanhandlingorthreats issuedwithout this Ability- ifasubjectcan 
be broken thisway, the torturer canbe assured that the information they’re getting is true so 
far as the subject is aware. 
Traps 
AsynthesisofseveralotherAbilitiesforaveryspecificpurpose,Traps 
allowsahunterto 
set up-or 
disarm-avariety ofdifferent devicesdesigned tocapture, delay or even kill those 
whoactivatethem. What’smore, heknowswhere these trapscanbe placed tothebesteffect 
inalocationhewishes todefend, allowinghimtonotonlycreateafortifiedspaceofhisown 
but also toknowwhere tolmkforthemuponenteringthe lairofamonsterorsimilardangerous 
1ocation.AhunterwiththisAbilitycanchoose tousehisMentalTraitsinanytesttodisarm 
oravoidatrap,evenifitwouldnormallybeaPhysicalChallenge todoso. Supematuraltraps 
mayor may not be detectedor affected by this Ability, asdetermined by theNarrator and the 
natureofthe trapinquestion. 
Ahuntermayalsoask theNarratorforaMentalChallenge totrytodiscem ifhecansee 
any signsoftrapsinthearea, butonlyone testcanbemadeforanygivenareaoritem,and 
the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Narratorshouldkeeptheresulthiddensothecharacterdoesnotknowifthereare 
actuallyany 
trapsaround.. . or ifhe justfailed tofindthem. 
Yourcharacter’sBackgroundshelp 
to fleshout tieswithmortalagencies, roles inhunter 
society and beneficial resources available. Each Background isuseddifferently. Ingeneral, 
having multipleTraits in agivenBackgrounda1low.s for better or more commonuse ofthat 
benefit. Some Backgrounds directly affect your character’s creation and development; others 
are called into play later during the game. 
Allies 
Afewfriends, eitherkeptfiomeasierdaysor madeafterthe imbuing, help youout in your 
endeavors. You canmake afew calls andcut afew deals to get assistance in awide range of 
activities. Your Storytellerwillprobablyrequire you to define how you keep your A h  and their 
relations to you. 
Each AUy Traitpossessedrepresentsonepersonwhomyoucancalluponfor aid. Unlike 
In~-e,yourAUieshavespecialtalentsthatmakethembetterthantheaveragepersononthe 
street.ThoughanAlly cannot be awareofyourhuntinglife, he orshecanbequiteusefulif 
properly directed. 
Ingeneral, yourAlliesdonotshowupdirectly inplay. Instead, youcanuse anAllyfor 
certain services in between play sessions, by notifying your Storyteller: 
AnAUycanbedirectedtofollowuponresearchoractivitiesthatyouhavestarted. If 
you previously undertookaspecifictask, liketailingsomeone,researchingaprojectorbuilding 
adevice, your Ally cancontinue the work. The Ally does so withone Ability Trait’s worthof 
expertise. As long as the Ally works on the project, your AUy Trait for the individual is tiedup. 
Ifyouneed a particularlycompetent AUy, youcanexpendmultipleTraits togainaccess 
to amortal withmultiple 1evelsofanAbilityor Influence. EachAUy Trait that you spend after 
the firstgives anextra levelofexpertise to yourAUy. The AUy may use thisexpertise on your 
behalf, though rarely with your own skill, and only helps as long as you tie up your Ally 
Background Traits in this manner. 
BewaryofcallinguponyourAllies toooften. AnAUy maycallon you for mutualaidor 
refuse to help ifpressed intodangerous or illegal activities. 
Arsenal 
Slaying dread monsters of the night with anothing more than afew torches and pitchforks 
is strictly a filmcliche these days- while many hunters are initially stuck battling monsters 
with whatever is at hand, smart ones know that ifthey’re going to continue fighting much 
longer, they’regoingtoneedmoreserioushardware.That’swherethisBackgroundcomes 
in, 
representingnotjustweaponsandammunition(thoughahunterwiththisTraithas 
alotof 
those too) but all theothergearthataserioushunterneeds tostalkandbringdownmonsters 
as well: camping supplies, night visiongear, body armor, fieldrations, communications 
equipment, heavy duty tools, combat medicalsupplies andsoon. At the highest levels of 
Arsenal, ahunter’s toy chest caninclude powerfulexplosives, 
even surplus military vehicles. It also represents the know-how for obtaining this sort of 
equipmentandafewconnectionsthat thehunter cangotogetthem( thoughbroadercontacts 
withsuchsourcesrequireother Backgrounds). 
Naturally, it isup to theplayer and theStorytellertoworktogethertodetailwhatkinds 
ofgoodsthe hunterhasreadily available,andwhat hecancomeupwithifhedoesalittledigging. 
The accompanyingchartprovidesaroughreferenceforhow muchequipmentandwhatkind 
thehunterhasaccessto. Playersneednothaveanexactlaundrylistofitems,butbothplayer 
i
I P 
I 
1I
1
I I
i
Y 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Arsenal Rating 
One Trait 
Two Traits 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
Five Traits 
Type of Hardware Available 
A modest collection of rifles, shotguns and 
handguns, with some minor military surplus as well 
(rations, walkie-talkies, first-aid kits, etc.). 
Translation: Maybe you’re from a long line of sport 
hunters, or your grandpa was in the army, and your 
family kept his things. 
Substantial trove of firearms, possibly including 
some old military rifles or a few really nice modern 
pieces, and a good collection of more useful items 
such as police scanners, fatigues and the like. 
Translation: Your dad was in the army, and liked it a lot. 
A serious collection of implements of war, including 
exotic melee weapons and even a few semiautomatic 
assault rifles. There’s enough gear to equip a full-size 
hunting group for some field work, including a few sets 
of body armor and some high-tech communications. 
Translation: You were in the army, and brought 
your work home as often as possible (so to speak). 
An exhaustive cache of weaponry of all shapes and 
sizes, including a number of fully-automatic 
weapons, sniper rifles or other specialized and 
valuable items. At this stage, some truly impressive 
and exotic gear (police lock guns, eavesdropping 
devices, etc.) has found its way into your collection 
as well. 
Translation: You were in a special forces outfit, 
and liked it so much you decided to get the materials 
to start your own. 
A truly frightening amount of firepower, including 
a number of automatic assault weapons and a 
veritable armory of regular pistols, rifles and 
shotguns. You have a small but impressive supply 
of old heavy weapons as well - 
vintage but 
serviceable grenades and even a few mortars. 
Likewise, your equipment extends well into such 
hard-to-find goods as top-of-the-line body armor, 
navigation gear, sophisticated electronics and other 
highly useful (if restricted) items, perhaps even a 
surplus military vehicle. 
Translation: You are the army. 
.. 
.. 
andStorytellershouldalwayshaveatleastageneralideaofwhat 
thecharacterdoesanddoes 
not have, so there isnodisagreement later onabout whether a few assault riflescould be found 
inthecharacter’scacheor not. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
1 
I 
As this Background is potentially amurce ofgreat abuse in the hands ofpower-hungry 
players, hereare afewclarificationsonwhat thisBackgrounddoesanddoes notcover. Firstof 
all, let it bemade clear that youdonot need to have this Background to have agun, oreven 
severalguns, nor is thisBackgroundautomaticallygranted ifahunterwaks intoanmy surplus 
store withacredit card andasmile (though permanent 1evelsofResowcescanbeconverted into 
Arsenalonaone-for-one basis ifacharacter is trulvseriousaboutstockdine:). Rather, it 
-
-
 
represents aregular practice of collecting weapons and gear that a hunter devotes considerable 
time and effort to maintain, as wellasageneralfamiliaritywiththe type ofarms and equipment 
thatmakeupsuchstockpiles. 
Furthermore, thecostsofmaintainingthiscollectiononabasic 
level areassumed tobe 
includedinthisBackground,separatefromanyResoznresahuntermighthave, 
thoughhunters 
withhighratings in this Backgroundandnoother income may find their levelsdiminishing 
iftheyconstantlyrun through their inventory. Likewise, losingalarge amountofstock toa 
police raidorextremeusagesuchaprolongedsiegemay temprarilyorevenpermanently lower 
this Background ifa hunter isn’t careful. 
On theotherhand, thestoryteller is withinhisrights torequireothercharacterswho 
beginacquiringalargeamountofweaponsfromothermeans tospendExperienceTraitsor trade 
in levels of other Backgrounds to acquire this Background (and thus maintain their new 
Breakin’ the law! Breakin’ the law! 
Not to make players feel too restricted when it comes tousing aBackground they’ve 
paid for fair andsquare, but it’s important that all parties concemeddon’t forget questions 
oflegality andpoliceattentionwhenArsenalcomes 
into play-it’sneat to have such 
powerfulweaponsand useful tools, but having a pile ofthem generally leaves atrail that 
mortal agencies or clever monsters can use to trace a trigger-happy hunter with 
frightening ease. Ofcourse, ifheboughthis firepower illegally, there’s little or no paper 
trail, but that alsomeanssomeharshpenaltiesandlikelyjail time ifhe’scaught. Likewise, 
quite afew usehlnon-weaponitem like spy camerasorrecording devices are restricted 
or outright illegal inmany states, andevenwhenthey are legal toown they canquickly 
attract the wrong kindofattention toahunterwho isn’t careful. (“NO, sir, I insist-I 
would really h e  tohearwhy youfelt theneed toprowlaround inthe busheswithnight 
visiongoggles and alaser microphone.”) 
And so far all that’s been addressed is owning this kind of gear, not using it. 
Storytellers should remember that no police department treatsreportsofshotgunor 
automatic weapon fire lightly, and being told that the persons responsible looked like 
they weredressedfor World War IXdoesn’t help their sense ofhumor either. Firefights 
in public areas will attract large anddedicated policemanhunts, aswillreportsofheavily 
anned“gangmembers”or“militiaguys,”andusingheavyweaponryorexplosivesofany 
kind is a surefire way to attract some very unpleasant federal attention on top of 
everything else. While having everyone arrested on the first night of the game might not 
be the best way to keep the chronicle going, Storytellersshouldensure that the police 
remainathreatwithteethiftheydonotwishthisBackground 
tobeabused. 
For their part, players should understand that while it offers themsome definite 
advantages, and smart hunters canuse it for some timewithout attracting toomuch 
notice, merely having this Backgrounddoesnot allow them touse their variousgiant 
weaponswithoutconsequence. Reckoning is about regularpeople facing the supematu- 
ral as best they can, after all, and regular people realize the risks that come with such 
behavior-they justalsoknowthisis the time to takesuchrisks. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


collection), so that those who actually purchased this Background don’t feel cheated. 
Ultimatelyhow this Background isgaind, lost or used in play dependsonwhat thestoryteller 
feelsisbestforthechronicle, 
andwhile theplaye rscanoffertheir input, theStoryteller’sword 
is final. 
Berserk 
Even the most mild and tolerant of the imbued can’t help but feel anger toward 
the monsters for the suffering they cause and the corrupted world they’ve made, but 
the feelings this Background represents go beyond righteous fury all the way to raw, 
primal rage. Any time she encounters a situation that might ignite her fury, she must 
make a Willpower Challenge against five Traits or lash out in some violent fashion. 
This rage isn’t totally blind - 
she need not strike an ally who accidentally crosses her 
boundaries, for example -but 
if she can’t hit the target of her anger, the scenery will 
certainly feel the force of her wrath instead. For better or worse, the turn after her 
particular trigger is set off she surges with blind fury, adding her levels of this 
Background to all Physical tests involving brute force, including brawling and melee 
attacks or other Strength-based actions such as knocking down doors or snapping 
handcuffs. In addition, she adds one level of the appropriate type of damage to all such 
attacks during this time. (Yes, Berserk can and often does work in concert with Ckaue. 
Ouch.) However, at the end of the turn she immediately suffers a level of bashing 
damage from the force that she throws herself at the object of her rage - 
armor may 
be used to soak this damage, when appropriate. 
This Background can only be used once per scene, and lasts for only one turn 
regardless of whether or not the offending stimulus is destroyed during that turn, 
though chances are the hunter is still quite enraged even after the Berserk fit passes. 
Additionally, it should be noted that aside from self-preservation or extreme dramatic 
circumstances, this rage can only be ignited by specific triggers outlined to the 
Storyteller when this Background is purchased. A hunter may have up to as many 
triggers as they have levels in this Background. Triggers can be just about anything the 
player and the Storyteller agree on, but should make sense with the character’s history 
and should focus on situations (“being taunted,” “seeing children abused,” “having 
team members injured”) as opposed to objects or people (“bloodsuckers,” “guns,” etc.) 
Bystanders 
Contrary to what many of the imbued might believe, there is in fact a bridge 
between those who have answered the Heralds’ call and the normal humans whose 
eyes are still blind to the creatures around them. Some people heard the Call, but failed 
to act on it as the imbued did, and in so doing fell into a state somewhere between a 
true hunter and an ordinary person. These so-called “bystanders” are not fully imbued, 
and cannot develop edges or use Conviction, but their eyes have been opened to the 
truth, and that fact allows them to offer a kind of support to the imbued that few are 
capable of: belief. Bystanders remember what’s really out there, and are generally 
willing to help the hunter however they can, if only out of a sense of guilt over not 
having done the right thing when they had a chance before. Indeed, sometimes the 
greatest aid they can offer to one of the imbued is simply the relief of being able to talk 
about the world as it really is, without having to lie or leave things unsaid. 
Each level of this Background translates to one such Bystander the hunter is 
friendly with, and the player should work with the Storyteller to detail the identity of 
each of these individuals and their relationship with the hunter, though it is up to the 
Storyteller to determine their exact Traits. It should be remembered that Bystanders 
tend to be far less effective against the supernatural in head-on battles, and so will 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
typically do so only if things are truly dire. After all, while certainly sympathetic to the 
hunter and her cause, a Bystander failed the original test for a reason, and many of them 
have no desire to directly face the horror monsters represent ever again. As a rule of 
thumb, a hunter can expect about the same level of aid from a bystander as she could 
from one of her own family. 
It should also be noted that Bystanders are generally drawn from the same material 
as hunters themselves: blue-collar or middle class people, who might be able to offer a 
few skills or some modest resources from time to time, but who are generally most 
valuable for their advice and emotional support. Players who wish to have Bystanders that 
are more powerful or connected must clear it with the Storyteller and purchase 
additional Backgrounds such as Mentor or Allw to represent such extra additional status. 
Putting a rase On Bashgrounds 
All too often, it is easy to forget that Backgrounds like Allies, Bysmnders, 
Contacts and Mentor are supposed to represent living, breathing individuals, 
not just Traits for a character to use at will. This is especially true in live- 
action, where a Storyteller or Narrator must often portray many such roles 
during the night, and thus some of the individuality of these people can often 
be lost in the shuffle. To help combat this dissociative thinking and keep the 
human aspect of the game strong, Storytellers may wish to reward players who 
take the time to create or select illustrations or photographs to represent these 
individuals. Not only does this give the player a face she can identify when 
using her Backgrounds, as opposed to just some lifeless Traits on a character 
sheet, it also gives a clever Storyteller an easy way of indicating when they’re 
playing a particular character by allowing them to affix the picture of the 
person to their costume. 
Indeed, Storytellers may wish to offer a few Experience Traits or other 
incentives for players who put faces on other people in their characters’ 
ories or current lives in this manner, as it tends to encourage a deeper 
f roleplaying than simply jotting these Traits down and forgetting about 
For more information on bystanders, their abilities, their viewpoints and their 
Contacts 
With the right Contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts of useful 
Information. Although having an “ear to the wall” doesn’t necessarily provide you 
with good help or loyal servants, it does mean that you know whom to ask when 
looking for the movers and shakers behind the scenes. 
In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and 
information. When you call upon your Contacts, you make a few phone calls, check 
with likely snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and information 
as if possessed of a certain amount of Influence. This lets you find out exactly what’s 
going on in the city within a particular area. You can get information of a level equal 
to however many Contacts you use; if you use Contacts x 3 on Industry, for instance, you 
get information as if digging up dirt with lndwtq x 3 Influence. The advantage of 
interaction with the imbued, see Chapter Seven. 
i
C P 
I 1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Contacts is that they can be switched from place to place each game, getting 
information in different areas on demand. 
Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require you to 
spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of a Storyteller. On 
occasion, accidents can cause Contacts in one area to dry up, such as a strike that affects 
your Industry Contacts, or a particularly unlucky astronomical conjunction sends your 
Occult Contacts running for the hills. Your Contacts generally will not function as aides 
or fellow hunters; that is the purview of the Allies and Bystanders Backgrounds. 
Example: Although his career has definitely taken a turn for the worse since a zombie 
scarred his face early on the hunt, Jeffrey still retains a number of his old connections from 
his acting days, for a total of Contacts x 4. When his group begins looking into a rot that’s 
been stalking some of the city’s socialites, Jeffrey makes a few calls to some wealthy fiends 
and allocates two Traits of Contacts fur High Society Influence, to allow him to gather 
information about possible parties the thing might try to crash, and another Trait on Media 
Influence to dig through society page archives and see if he can find anything there. He holds 
the last Trait of Contacts m reserve, just in case something else comes up that he needs 
information on in a hurry. 
Destiny 
explicable power around the 
path that he’s meant to take. 
a hunter with a powerful Destiny to die before his time, though even then his death is 
never unimportant. 
In game terms, for each level of this Background he possesses, a hunter with 
Destlny may get one retest on any challenge, including tests with edges. Only one retest 
may be made on any single challenge, and once used in this fashion that level ofDestrny 
is gone for the rest of the story. 
The Storyteller should decide what the hunter’s Destiny is and work it into his 
plans for the chronicle, and he need not necessarily tell the player what the character’s 
Destiny might be. Bear in mind that a Destiny need not be a glorious one or have a 
particularly happy ending - 
dying heroically or even becoming a villain of some kind 
are popular alternatives, though by no means the only ones -though if the Storyteller 
wishes to design such a dark Destiny, it is best to talk about it with the player first to 
makesure he iscomfortablewithsucha tragicfateforhischaracter. Inaddition, should 
the events of the hunter’s Destiny actually come to pass before the end of the chronicle, 
the player may re-assign the levels of this Background as he likes, preferably in keeping 
with the outcome of his moment of truth. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
t 
t 
I 
Everyman 
By definition, hunters are all normal folks before the Heralds come along, but an 
imbued with this Trait was so thoroughly ordinary that, well, she’s nearly invisible as 
far as the authorities are concerned. No matter what she’s been up to since the hunt 
began, she’s maintained an excellent semblance of a normal life, so much so that 
ordinary people don’t give her a second thought as she goes about her day. This also 
holds true as far as most institutions are Concerned -her 
credit rating is good, her 
arrest record is clean, there aren’t any bizarre charges on her credit cards and so on - 
making her very hard to track down through bureaucratic channels. And while this 
needle-in-haystack effect can occasionally be a hassle for the hunter as well, more 
often than not it’s a welcome protection when immersed in a world where bloodsuck- 
ers and other monsters frequently hold sway in local institutions. 
Each level of this Background adds one Trait to the difficulty of all attempts to 
track down the hunter through record searches, witness interviews or any other means 
besides directly tailing or tracking the imbued herself. Furthermore, any time someone 
tries to use any Influence against her, even just to gather information, the effort takes 
twice as long and/or requires extra levels of Influence be spent, at the Storyteller’s 
discretion. Alternately, in terms of information gathering the Storyteller may rule that 
expenditures of fewer Influence Traits than the hunter’s rating in this Background 
simply fail to generate any result at all. This Background does not represent any kind 
of supernatural quality, just a natural anonymity on the hunter’s part, and provides no 
protection whatsoever from supernatural scrying or any kind of face-to-face confron- 
tation a monster might wish to initiate. It simply ensures that if monsters wish to use 
the faceless powers of authority against the hunter, they’re going to have to track down 
an equally faceless target first. 
Example: A bloodsucker wishes to call in some favors to launch a police raid on the 
aparnnentofTimSullivan, a humbleDefender withEverymanx.5. Firstit wants tofindout 
more about him, though, and so it turns to its contucts in the local Bureaucracy for this 
normally elementary step; however, the search winds up taking far longer than it had 
anticipated, becomingamatter ofdays insteadofmere hours. (Afterall, do you have any idea 
how many men named “Tim Sullivan” there are in an average metropolitan area?) Even with 
the right infonnation, the monster then finds to its dispkasure that it will have to call in afew 
more Police favors than it expected: Tim’s record is so spotless that it’s going to take a serious 
effort to cover up the skdy causes behind the rad. (In game t e r n ,  the Storyteller rules that 
it will take two additional levels of Police Influence to call in the raid, due to Tim’s high 
Everyman rating.) What would be a routine disruption to inflict on most mortals has become 
an exhausting chore, giving Tim at least a little more time to act or perhaps even scaring the 
creature away entirely from such an unexpected drain on its resources. Of course, it can still 
confront him directly ifit chooses, but working through middlemen is going to be considerably 
tougher indeed. 
Note that while this Background offers some rather potent advantages, it also 
requires a amount of ongoing discretion on the character’s part - 
the Storyteller may 
reduce or even revoke this Background if the hunter is repeatedly spotted in bizarre or 
dangerous situations by those who believe in her “normality.” Being spotted out at odd 
hours once or twice isn’t likely to cause adecrease in this Trait, but doing it ona regular 
basis without a good cover story is, and major infractions like being seen prowling 
around with a weapon or getting arrested for a serious crime might cause it to vanish 
overnight. Likewise, the Storyteller may forbid this Background to characters whose 
histories or personalities would naturally disqualify them from owning this Trait. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


.. 
.. ... . . ” _  - . ~  
.- 
. .  
1
1 
I 
1 
1 
t 
I 
E i 
Hunters who are openly regarded as eccentric or dangerous, or who have long criminal 
records or histories of mental illness, are simply too distrusted by the community to 
receive this benefit. A hunter with Everyman cannot have the Fame Background, and 
the Storyteller may rule that especially high levels of other Abilities or Backgrounds 
prohibit it as well, depending on the setting of the chronicle itself. 
Exposure 
Not all hunters first encountered monsters at the moment of their imbuing; some 
Chosen came across the supernatural before the Heralds spoke to them, and while at 
the time they repressed or rationalized the experience away, now they’re able to look 
back and make some sense of what they couldn’t quite handle before. Indeed, their 
memories often come in handy when it comes to identifying and battling creatures in 
the present, as they recall details of their past encounters and compare it to what’s now 
in front of them. This may not seem like much, but even such a relatively meager 
source of information can be a blessing when compared to other imbued who cross into 
their new life with no real knowledge of the enemy at all. On the other hand, cautious 
hunters also bear in mind that they weren’t capable of piercing illusions or seeing the 
big picture back then either, and so act carefully lest they work from a false perception 
of their enemy. 
In game terms, any time the hunter encounters a creature similar to one she 
believes she saw before her imbuing, she may spend a Mental Trait and ask the 
Narrator for a Mental Challenge against six Traits (spend Exposure for retests). If 
successful, the Narrator may give her a hint or two about the nature of the monster, 
its habits or its vulnerabilities as the character suddenly remembers such details from 
her past encounters and applies them to the present. All Exposure spent in this fashion 
is lost for the rest of the session. 
Note that this Background works based on what the imbued beliewes she has 
encountered before, which isn’t always necessarily what she actually met, and even if 
it is might still have provided misleading clues about others of its kind - 
if she 
happened to face a bloodsucker who was repulsed by garlic, for example, she’s almost 
certainly in for a rude surprise if she tries to use it on another one. Naturally, the 
information gained from this Background cannot include things the hunter couldn’t 
possibly have learned from his past experiences - 
she cannot suddenly remember that 
silver bums the skin of shapechangers if all she did before was run from them, though 
she might remember a useful tip about how she escaped. The player should work with 
the Storyteller to determine exactly where and how her character came in contact 
with the supernatural before, not only to determine what the hunter believes she 
encountered before (and the extent of what information she might be able to glean 
from it), but also because such experiences might well provide excellent material for 
future plot hooks or even the return of creatures from a hunter’s past. 
Fame 
Though rare, some hunters are imbued from among the ranks of the wealthy or 
talented elite. Though such notoriety often fades quickly as a hunter’s paranoia (or 
enemies list) grows, until it is gone your Fame can help to influence society in a few 
helpful ways. 
Fame allows you to exercise your connections over a longer distance than usual. 
Sure, if you’ve got the right Influence, you can push things around on an interstate or 
evennationalscale, but withFame, youcan just make afewcallsandgetyourContacts, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
I 
1 I 
Fame Ranges 
Fame Traits 
1 
Local scene 
2 
City 
3 
State 
4 
Adjoining states 
5 
Entire country 
Maximum Range for Backgrounds 
Influence or Resources exerted over a greater range without any impediment. Your 
total Fame determines your maximum range for unimpeded use of your Contacts, 
Influence and Resources. 
When you make an effort to exert your Backgrounds over a long range, you lean 
on your popularity and image, thus expending your Fame Traits until the next game 
session. Usually, Fame is used in the downtime between sessions to facilitate long- 
range plans. 
In a less mechanical fashion, your Fame also dictates how recognizable you are to 
people, for one reason or another. You could be a movie star, or a notorious criminal. 
Either way, the Storyteller will certainly make the effects of your Fame apparent, and 
folksmaytake noticeofyouatbothersome times. Youshouldwearatagindicatingyour 
level of Fume so that others know of your distinction. 
Fume does have its limitations. It makes little sense for you to have this 
Background if you’re another guy on the street, or if you’ve faked your own death or 
otherwise done something to remove yourselffrom the public eye. Also, Fame does not 
always indicate a widespread knowledge of you; you may only be known to a sub-sect 
of a particular group, such as a lesser-known performer, or a recognized expert in a field 
who’s unknown to those outside a given circle. 
Fraternity 
Somewhat similar to Mentor but not quite as specific or direct, this Background 
represents a secretive or mysterious fellow hunter (or group of hunters) who has taken 
an interest in the character’s well-being and actively supports her hunting efforts. 
Most of the time this assistance comes in the form of information, such as anonymous 
e-mails offering advice or a timely warning scrawled in hunter code, although 
occasionally more tangible gifts such as weapons or money might be sent as well, 
depending on the means and motives of the Fraternity. 
Exactly how much a hunter knows about her backers and whether or not she is 
able to contact them directly is between the player and the Storyteller to decide, but 
in general this Background is intended to be as nebulous as it is helpful, if not more so. 
Even a benefactor whom the hunter comes to know personally cannot be counted on 
as reliably as an Ally or Contact, though developing such a combination of Traits is 
certainly possible so long as the essential mystery behind this Background remains 
intact. Likewise, it is up to the Storyteller to determine the identities, abilities and 
motives of the imbued backing a character, and he is encouraged to be as complex or 
arcane as he likes when doing so. (After all, if these mysterious benefactors didn’t have 
some reason to hide their faces or motives from the character, they would’ve 
approached her more openly.) Indeed, it might even turn out that Fraternity support 
has been a devious ploy on the part of a character’s enemies, in which case these 
Background Traits must be re-assigned. The Storyteller may also require the player to 
i
1
b P
f 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


shift these Traits to levels of appropriate Backgrounds if the hunter ever learns the true 
identities and motives behind her Fraternity rating. 
While mostassistancefromahunter’sFrutonitycomesintheformofinformation, atthe 
Storyteller’sdiscretionitmayalsocome intoplayonaone-for-onebasisas temporarylevelsof 
Allies, Conra~u, 
lnfluolceorR~~,representingconnectionsorassetsanimbued’sFr~’ty 
hasmadeavailable toher. AnyTraitsbestowedare up totheStorytellertodecide; whileaplayer 
maymakesuggestions,particularlyifherhunterhassomewayofreachingherbenefactors, 
the 
Storyteller’sword is final. Whiletiedup inthisfashion,FrutemityTraitscannotbeusedfor 
anything else, andmustberetumedwhenthe benefactorsrequire (i.e., WhentheStoryteller 
asks). More exotic Backgrounds suchas Arsenalmay alsobebestowed in this fashion, but are 
correspondinglyrare,andsomeBackgroundsarenotavailableatall(usecommonse~onwhat 
a benefactor could and could not provide). 
Grace Under Pressure 
Mostoftenpossessedbysoldiers,paramedics, SWATofficersandotherswhohavebeen 
trained to respondefficiently todangerous situationsover a long periodoftime, this Background 
allowsahuntertokeephercoolandactquick1yinhigh-pressuresituations.Any 
time that an 
orderofinitiative isbeingdeterminedforatum, the huntermayaddanumberoffraitsequal 
to herrating in this Background to her actualTrait rating for the purposesofdetermining who 
acts first, providedshe isn’t totally Surprised. (Ifalevelofthe Ahmess Ability is spent tonegate 
aSurprise, this Backgroundhctionsnormally.) This includesusingedges, whenapplicable, 
butonlyapp1ieswhenthehunterisperformingactionsinatumof“combat 
time,”whetheror 
not anactual fight isoccurring. 
Thus, if a hunterwith five PhysicalTraits and four levels of this Background enters a fight, 
she is considered to havenine PhysicalTraitsforthepurposesofdecidingwhoactsfirst 
in a m ,  
as her calm nerves allow her to react faster than another person with the same number of 
Physical Traits might. It would also apply if she was attempting a Mental Challenge to 
administer first aid toafallencomradeduring afirefight, asshe doesnot need to actuallybe 
fighting, merely immersed inan immediately hazardoussituation. 
It isbest toask thestorytellerbefore taking thisBackground,assomegamesdonotuse 
an initiative system todetermine the order ofactions ina turn, rendering this Background 
Useless. 
Influence 
Society builds upon institutions. Indoing so, people formgatherings of expertise that can 
be manipulated by those who know the right calls to make and strings to pull. If you have 
Influence,youcanswaythedirectionofsomeareasofsociety,generatingresultsyoudesire 
in 
agivenfield. It isarareandvaluable thingforahuntertoholdontoforverylongaftertheCal1, 
as the imbued tend todistance themselvesfromtheirold 1ivesovertime.Your Influencecan 
be used tostrike indirectly at monsters while protecting your own assets, and to gain information 
or special resources unavailable to those without such privileges. 
1nfluencecomesfrommanydifferentareas.Youmust 
allocateTraitsseparately toeach 
Influence; thus, ifyouhaveLegdx 4, youcould stillhave Police x3 independently but you would 
have to spend the Traits for each. 
You cannot manage more Influence than the sum of your permanent Physical, Social, 
Mentaland Ally Traitscombined. Thiscounts against allofyour total Influence-your 
combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, there are only so many things you cando 
inaday, thoughwithsome helpagreatdealispossible. 
When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary InfluenceTraits. The tables for 
variousInfluenceareasdetailwhatyoucandowithaspecificnumberoffraits. 
Performing an 
actionrequiresanurnberoffraitsequalto 
the levelofthe action; youmustusethreeTraitsto 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


perforrnanactionlistedatthethirdlevelofanInfluencechart,for instance.Thus, withhigh 
levelsofhfluence, youcanperformmanysmallactions, orafewsignificantones. 
Certain levels of Influence gift you with items, money or aides. Unlike the Resources 
Background, money andequipment g a m e d  with Influencedoes not automatically come each 
month; if you want asteady income from Influence, you must continually direct your Influence 
in that direction, and thisdoesnot come with any associated trappingsofwealth (you’d have 
to buy ahouseandcarseparately, for instance). AidesgameredwithInfluencegenerallyhelp 
onlyforonespecifictk, andusuallyonlyhave theequivalent ofone 1evelofAbility intheir 
areaofskill-formorecompetent 
and readily available help, take AUies. 
Most cities have only aset amount of Influence invariousareas. For instance, Atlantahas 
agreatdealofTrunsptiun Influence, because it isahuboftravel, whileHollywoodwould 
havealot ofHighSociety andMedia. 
Storytellersshouldmapoutthe total amountofeachtypeofInfluence tobehadinthe 
area. Once all of the Influence of a given type is usedup, the only way to get more is to use 
Influence togrow that areaofsociety (makingnewprojects, sponsoring investment andsoon), 
todestroy someone else‘s Influenceand thus free upthoseresources, or toacquire anadversary’s 
Influence in an area. Also, eachareamay have different reflections ofthe Influences listed here. 
Acity with a thriving independent filmcommunity is going to have adifferent picture ofMedia 
orHighSociety thanacitywhere theartsarebeingliterallystarvedoutdue tobudgetcuts. 
EachareaofInfluencehasitsowndescription. 
Be warned that certain ancient monsters 
or hideously wealthy andconnected individuals may possess 1evelsofInfluencefarbeyondthe 
featureslistedhere, andwisehuntersknow thatnomatterhowpowerfulthey maybe, there’s 
always abiggerfishout theresomewhere. 
Bureaucracy 
You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing with social 
programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and regulations or twist 
bureaucratic regimentation toyour advantage. Bureaucracy is useful inoperating or shutting 
down businesses, faking or acquiring permits and identification papers, and manipulating 
public utilities and facilities. Government clerks at the city and county level, utility workers, 
roadcrews, surveyors and other civilservants are potential contactsor allies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license 
Disconnect a single small residence’s utilities 
Close a small road or park 
Get public aid ($250) 
5 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card 
Close a public school for a single day 
Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Initiate a phone tap 
Fake land deeds 
Initiate a department-wide investigation 
Start, stop or alter a citywide program or policy 
Shut down a big business on a violation 
Rezone areas 
Obliterate records of a person on a city or county level 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Church 
Though the modem church has arguably less control over temporal society than 
it did in the Middle Ages, its policies still exert considerable influence over the 
direction of politics and communities. Knowing the appropriate churchmen allows 
insight into many mainstream religions, such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hindu- 
ism, Shinto or Buddhism (fringe or alternative groups, such as Scientology, are 
considered Occult). When you exercise Church Influence, you can change religious 
policy, affect the assignment of clergy and access a variety of lore and resources. 
Contacts and allies affected by Church Influence would include ministers, priests, 
bishops, Church-sponsored witch-hunters, holy orders and various attendees and 
assistants. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Identify most secular members of a given faith in the 
local area 
Pass as a member of the clergy 
Peruse general church records (baptism, marriage, 
burial, etc.) 
Identify higher church members 
Track regular church members 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church 
Find the average church-associated hunter 
Dip into the collection plate ($250) 
Access private information and archives of a church 
Discredit or suspend high-level church members 
Manipulate regional branches of the church 
5 
Organize major protests 
Finance 
Manipulating markets, stock reports and investments is a hobby of many imbued, 
especially those who use their knowledge to keep hidden wealth. Though your actual 
available money is a function of your Resources, you can use Finance Influence to start 
or smother businesses, crush or support banking institutions and alter credit records. 
Clearly, such power over money is not to be trifled with - 
fortunes are made and 
destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, stockbrokers, bank tellers, yes men, 
financiers and loan agents are found among such work. 
Access ancient church lore and knowledge 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about major transactions and financial events 
Raise capital ($1,000) 
2 
Learn about general economic trends 
Learn real motivations for many financial actions of 
others 
Trace an unsecured small account 
Raise capital to purchase a small business (single, small 
store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a 
single large store or service) 
3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
P 
I 
i 
I 
3 
4 
4 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some credit 
rating alterations) 
Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect ofcity-wide banking (shut off ATMs, 
arrange a bank “holiday”) 
Ruin a large business 
Purchase a major company 
i
I
5 
Health 
Sooner or later most imbued will require serious medical attention of some kind, 
but those with an eye to the future cultivate an interest in local health resources before 
visiting the emergency room. Not only can such connections help get suspicious 
injuries (gunshots, large bites, etc.) treated with a minimum of difficulty, but they can 
also help track down signs of supernatural activity such as fake death certificates, a 
string of related deaths that have been swept under the rug and so on. All of these sorts 
of research and development fall under the purview of Health Influence. Coroners, 
doctors, lab workers, therapists, pharmacists and specialists are just a few of the folks 
found in this field. 
ab I
1
cost 
Effect 
1 
Access a person’s health records 
Fake vaccination records and the like 
Use public functions of health centers at your leisure 
Access some medical research records 
Have minor lab work done 
Get a copy of a coroner’s report 
Instigate minor quarantines 
Corrupt results of tests or inspections 
Acquire a body 
Completely rewrite medical records 
Abuse grants for personal use ($250) 
Have minor medical research performed on a subject 
Institute large-scale quarantines 
Shut down businesses for “health code violations” 
Have special research projects performed 
Have people institutionalized or released 
1I
2 
Alter medical records 
I 
5 
High Society 
The glitterati at the top of society move in circles of wealth and elegance. Access 
to famous actors, celebrities and the idle rich grants a certain sway over fashion trends, 
not to mention helps in scoring hard-to-find tickets or other backstage passes to the 
world of the famous. Combined with Fame, a modicum of High Society Influence turns 
a hunter into a debonair darling of the most exclusive social circles. Among these 
circles, one finds dilettantes, artists of almost any stripe, old money families, models, 
rock stars, sports figures and jetsetters. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn what is trendy 
Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
2 
Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before they 
are made public knowledge 
Track most celebrities and luminaries 
Be a local voice in the entertainment field 
“Borrow” idle cash from rich friends ($1000) 
Crush promising careers 
Hobnob well above your station 
Minor celebrity status 
5 
Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh gathering 
Industry 
The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. 
Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, churning out 
the staples of everyday living, and many imbued were themselves employed before the 
Messengers changed everything. Control over Industry Influence sways the formation 
of unions, the movements of work projects, locations for factories and the product of 
manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, engineers, construction workers, 
manual laborers and all manner of blue-collar workers are among these ranks. 
Learn about industrial projects and movements 
Get a brief appearance on a talk show that’s not about 
to be canceled 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Have minor projects performed 
Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash ($500) 
Arrange small accidents or sabotage 
Appropriate machinery for a short time 
Close down a small plant 
Revitalize a small plant 
3 
Organize minor strikes 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
Legal 
Since many of the operations that imbued undertake are at least marginally 
illegal, a good amount of sway over judges and lawyers is indispensable. Those hunters 
who know the ins and outs of the law are priceless to their confederates, often foregoing 
more dangerous duty to devote their time to bailing other imbued out of trouble or at 
least ensuring that they receive trials free of supernatural influence. Of course, a little 
Legal Influence is also excellent for harassing an enemy’s assets, too - 
for example, a 
subpoena for a daytime court appearance can make a bloodsucker’s existence difficult 
with just a phone call or two. Such Influence ranges from law schools and firms, to 
lawyers, judges, DAs, clerks and public defenders. 
cost 
Effect 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charges 
Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and con- 
tracts, court dates) 
Access public or court funds ($250) 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
i 
i 
P 
I 
 
Get representation in most court cases 
Tie up court cases 
Have most legal charges dropped 
Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations 
Have deportation proceedings held against someone i
I
4 
Issue subpoenas 
5 
Media 
While all attempts at bringing the hunter cause directly to mass public attention 
have met with failure so far, the ability of influence different media groups can still be 
invaluable to a clever imbued. Putting specific emphasis on certain events can place 
an enemy in an uncomfortable spotlight, for example, or discredit a rival with a well- 
timed smear campaign. With Media, you can crush or alter news stories, control the 
operations of news stations and reporters and sway public opinion, with deejays, 
editors of all varieties, reporters, cameramen, photographers and broadcasters at your 
disposal. At Storyteller discretion, Media may also allow access to the more technical 
areas of television, radio or movies. 
Pb 
E
1
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about breaking stories early 
Submit small articles (within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports 
Get hold of investigative reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports 
Get project funding and waste it ($250) 
Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
Kill small local articles or reports completely 
1I
2 
3 
I 
5 
Occult 
The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and 
unusual factions. Obviously, a hunter is aware that there are strange things out there 
by the fact of his imbuing and other things he has experienced firsthand, but hard 
knowledge of such things is a function of Abilities. By contrast, using Occult Influence 
you can dig up information to improve your knowledge, get inside the occult 
community and even possibly track down some less careful and/or more arrogant 
monsters. Even copies of the elusive hunter Apocrypha are available to those with the 
right connections. Cult leaders, alternative religious groups, charlatans, occultists, 
New Agers and a few more dangerous fringe elements can be found here. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Contact and make use of common occult groups and 
their practices 
Know some of the more visible occult figures 
Know and contact some of the more obscure occult 
figures 
Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($250) 
Access occult tomes and writings 
2 
3 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
1 I 
1 
I 
I 
* 
I i 
4 
Learn the general whereabouts of a particularly incau- 
tious creature (one that has surrounded itself with a 
cult, opened a suspicious business, etc.) 
Get a copy of the Apocrypha 
Track down a lead on a fairly well-hidden creature 
5 
Police 
“To protect and serve” is the motto of the police, but many imbued quickly realize 
that exactly who is being protected and served may not always be who they’d like it 
to be. On the other hand, hunters with Police Influence can be very handy to when it 
comes to harassing otherwise secure creatures, or getting the authorities to respond just 
a little more slowly than normal to those reports of suspicious activity around a 
monster’s haven.. ,. Police of all ranks, detectives, clerical staff, dispatchers, prison 
guards, special divisions (such as SWAT or homicide) and local highway patrol make 
up these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn police procedures 
2 
3 
4 
Hear police information and rumors 
Avoid traffic tickets 
Have license plates checked 
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) 
Get “inside information” 
Get copies of an investigation report 
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone 
Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband 
Have some serious charges dropped 
5 
Start an investigation 
Get money, either from the evidence room or as an 
appropriation ($1,000) 
Institute major investigations 
Arrange setups 
Instigate bureau investigations 
Have officers fired 
Political 
Although many imbued come to distrust government after seeing the supernatu- 
ral at work within it, the power to manipulate political structures offers a host of 
possibilities to those daring enough to work within the system this way, not to mention 
offering a chance to strike at some monsters in their own backyard.. .. Altering party 
platforms, controlling local elections, changing appointed offices and calling in favors 
is all in the purview of Political Influence. Well-timed blackmail, bribery, spin 
doctoring or any sundry tricks are stock-iwtrade on both sides of this fence. Some of 
the likely contacts and allies include pollsters, lobbyists, activists, party members, spin 
doctors and politicians from rural zoning committees to the mayors of major cities or 
Congressional representatives. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Minor lobbying 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
P 
I 
i 
I 
2 
Identify real platforms of politicians and parties 
Be in the know 
Meet small-time politicians 
Gamer inside information on processes, laws and the 
like 
Use a slush fund or fund-raiser ($1000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, renova- 
tions, small construction) 
Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office 
Enact encompassing legislature i
1
3 
4 
Enact minor legislation 
5 
P
b 
Street 
Ignored and often spat on by their “betters,” those in the dark alleys and slums 
have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who might come 
calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections on the underside 
of the city to find the homeless, gang members of all sorts, street buskers, petty 
criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums and barrios, and fringe elements of so- 
called “deviant” cultures. 
I
1
cost 
Effect 
1 
1I
Have a ear open for the word on the street 
Identify most gangs and know their turfs and habits 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of society 
Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life 
Access small-time contraband 
Get insight into other areas of Influence 
Arrange some services from street people or gangs 
Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons 
Panhandle or hold a “collection” ($250) 
Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG 
Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations 
Control a single medium-sized gang 
Arrange impressive protests by street people 
2 
I 
3 
4 
Mobilize groups of homeless 
5 
Transportation 
Even most monsters still need to get around by mundane means, and a hunter 
with this Influence can use this weak spot to cause all kinds of trouble and delays for 
their target. (If a creature has a particular vulnerability, such as debility to sunlight or 
inability to cross running water, the possibilities just get better and better.) What’s 
more, getting access to special supplies and services can also take a measure of 
Transportation. All these things can be controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, 
harbors, railroads, airports, taxis, border guards, pilots and untold hundreds, as well as 
more mundane aspects like shipping and travel arrangements. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know what goes where, when and why 
Travel locally quickly and freely 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


2 
Track an unwary target if he uses public transportation 
Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from mun- 
dane threats (robbery, terrorism, etc.) 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel 
Arrange passage that’s relatively safe (or at least con- 
cealed) from supernatural threats, but only those that 
you are aware of and can prepare for in some way 
Temporarily shut down one form of transportation (bus 
lines, ships, planes, trains, etc.) 
Route money your way ($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel 
Smuggle with impunity 
UndenVOrld 
Not all imbued were upstanding citizens before the Heralds called to them, and 
even those who were sometimes find themselves forced to deal with shady characters 
in order to survive. Whatever the case may be, it’s a sad truth that the world of crime 
offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle leaders. Guns, money, drugs and 
vice - 
such delicious pastimes can be had by anyone talented or simply vicious 
enough to take them. Underworld Influence lets you call upon favors for all manner of 
illegal dealings, and its ranks are filled by the Mafia, La Cosa Nostra, drug dealers, 
bookies, Yakuza, Tong gangs, hitmen, fencers and criminal gangs. 
cost 
Effect 
3 
4 
5 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, 
petty gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, hard drugs, stolen cars 
Hire muscle to rough someone up 
Fence stolen loot 
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG 
Arrange a minor “hit” 
Meet someone in “the Family” 
Make white-collar crime connections 
Arrange gangland assassinations 
Hire a demolition man or firebug 
Supply local drug needs 
University 
Institutions of learning and research are the purview of the Uniwersity Influence. 
Access to the halls of learning can help you with any number of resources, from obscure 
folklore to research assistance to many impressionable young minds. School boards, 
students from kindergarten through college, graduate students, professors, teachers, 
deans, Greek orders, and a variety of staff fill the ivy-covered halls. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know layout and policy of local schools 
Have access to low-level university resources 
Get records up to the high school level 
I
I 
1
I
II
1
1
1
1
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
2 
3 
Know a contact or two with useful knowledge or Abili- 
ties 
Have minor access to facilities 
Fake high school records 
Obtain college records 
Call in faculty favors 
Cancel a class 
Fix grades 
Discredit a student 
Organize student protests and rallies 
Discredit faculty members 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
Iron Willed 
Many hunters continue on after suffering terrible losses, but an imbued with this 
Background can quite literally struggle on even when gravely wounded, though not 
without a monumental effort of will. The damage remains, and if serious enough can 
even kill the hunter if he's not treated in time, but as long as he can maintain his 
concentration he feels no ill effects from his wounds. 
For each level of this Background, the hunter may ignore wound penalties for one 
level of injury, cumulatively - 
thus, an imbued with five levels of this Background 
ignores wound penalties for the first five levels of damage he receives. Each turn that 
he wishes to ignore wound penalties in this fashion, however, he must either spend a 
Mental Trait or make a Willpower Challenge against a difficulty of five. As soon as he 
fails a test or fails to spend a Mental Trait in this manner, the benefits of this 
Background end immediately and cannot be reactivated for the rest of the scene. If the 
hunter has five levels of this Background, he may stave off Incapacitation automati- 
cally by spending two Mental Traits every turn - 
he cannot run or fight, but can still 
speak, move at a walking pace and perhaps use some edges or less physically demanding 
Abilities. 
Patron 
The Heralds typically contact a hunter directly only once, to imbue them with 
the power to face the creatures of the night; after that the hunter is on essentially her 
own, for better or worse, and hears nothing more from the Messengers. Imbued with 
this Background, on the other hand, are still contacted by the Heralds with some 
frequency, receiving all manner of mysterious omens, cryptic messages, bizarre visions 
and dire warnings seemingly out of the blue. However, unless they are painfully direct 
(and the Messengers seldom are), it is up to the hunter to make sense of all images and 
impressions received this way, though if she is stumped and desperately needs to 
decipher them she may make a Mental Challenge of the Enigmas Ability to ask the 
Narrator for a hint. 
In either case, a hunter has one turn or minute of warning before a vision strikes, 
as she can sense the imminent onslaught of information -for 
the following turn or 
minute, she is either frozen in place or sent into a seizure-style fit and can take no 
action, even to defend herself, as the images from the Heralds sweep over her. She may 
act normally on the following turn, though she is considered down a number of Traits 
equal to her Pacron rating that turn, due to residual distraction and discomfort. 
Naturally, clever Storytellers will be quick to take advantage of this mysterious 
link to the Heralds to introduce all sorts of foreshadowing, clues to puzzles currently 
i
C a 
I 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


~ . . . ~  
... 
. . . 
facing the hunters and other information to the chronicle. The imbued’s rating in this 
Background determines how often she is contacted by the Messengers, and to some 
extend how direct or intelligible their communication is - 
those with higher levels 
have a somewhat easier time understanding the flood of information they’re hit with, 
but suffer equally frequent fits and convulsions as the Heralds speak to them. Roughly 
speaking, a hunter will be contacted once per story for each Patron Trait she possesses, 
but need fear being contacted in the middle of the action (i.e., during a session) only 
once or twice per story at most. At five levels ofthis Background, however, she receives 
information once every week of downtime, and can expect to contact (and its 
accompanying seizure) every other session of play or so. 
Pawn 
Here’s the good news: a hunter with this Background has attracted the notice of 
a supernatural creature, who regularly gives him supplies and some inside information 
to help him destroy other monsters in the area. It might even intervene directly to save 
him from danger if he’s been especially good at his job, though it’s best not to count 
on that too much. Here’s the bad news: whether the hunter guesses it or not, he’s being 
used as a hatchet man against the creature’s enemies as part of some monstrous power 
play, which means that as soon as his usefulness ends or he shows signs ofgoing against 
it in any way, the beast will use all its power to try to take him down. 
The more levels of this Background a hunter has, the more powerful his patron 
is in terms of abilities and resources, but the less he knows about it and what its long 
term motivations might be. One or two Traits indicates a creature that is probably 
more clever than it is powerful, and whom the hunter knows at least a bit about in 
return; three or four Traits, on the other hand, typically denotes a creature (or group 
of creatures) who have managed to screen their identities from the hunter quite well, 
but who can supply him with fairly considerable resources when required. At a full five 
Traits, the hunter will probably never be able to trace back exactly who is supporting 
him, and will be up against a mighty adversary ifhe ever goes rogue, but the impressive 
assets it provides him with will likely keep him from asking too many questions.. . at 
least for a while. 
In game terms, this Background works much like Fraternity, and can be con- 
verted into temporary levels of other Backgrounds to represent the aid that the 
monster is offering, and the Storyteller should feel free to disseminate information 
about the creature’s enemies as well. Just bear in mind that this Background springs 
entirely from self-interest on the creature’s part, so while both sides may play along for 
a while (particularly if the monster manages to dupe the hunter into thinking he’s 
doing the right thing), it’s only telling him what he needs to hear, not necessarily the 
whole truth as it stands. 
Resources 
You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some solid 
resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, these 
Resources are always readily available and come to you automatically due to your 
investments, jobs and holdings. 
Your number of Resources Traits determines the amount of money and capital 
that you can secure. By expending temporary Resources Traits (which return at the 
next game session), you can draw upon your regular income, as shown in the 
accompanying table. If you expend permanent Resources, you can divest yourself of 
holdings, allowing access to ten times the amount shown on the table. However, the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I i 
limits of what you can buy are always adjudicated by the Storyteller. Truly powerful 
:s of Resources are best left to downtimes and moderation between game sessions. 
Resource fillocaticn 
No Traits: 
One Trait: 
Poverty; income $200. Get roommates, 
bus pass. 
Small savings and holdings; income $500. 
Have apartment, cheap means of 
transportation. 
Modest savings and holdings; income 
$1,000. Have condo and motorcycle or 
modest car. 
Significant savings and holdings; income 
$3,000. Own house, car. 
Large savings and holdings. Income 
$10,000, Own large house or some small 
properties, two vehicles, some luxuries 
and unusual items. 
Rich. Income $30,000. Own estate and 
grounds, multiple small properties, several 
vehicles, arts and treasures, luxury items. 
Two Traits: 
Three Traits: 
Four Traits: 
Five Traits: 
~ 
. 
-_______I__________ 
--- 
___ 
Roots 
While many imbued find themselves distanced from the community by the 
nature of their contact with the Messengers, no few remain as deeply tied to the 
lives of their neighbors as they were before, if not more so. A hunter with this 
Background has just such a connection - 
she is well-liked and well-trusted by 
those in her community, and they naturally come to her with their problems and 
concerns. In return for her help, they gladly look out for her and what they 
perceive to be her best interests, and will do what they can to help her if she 
requires it of them. They cannot be exposed to the details of her new life without 
endangering them, nor will they actively take part in illegal activity or offer 
highly specialized information, but they will do their best to help out so long as 
those limits aren't pushed, and without asking too many questions either - 
for 
example, they might hide her from a police sweep, look after her when she's ill 
or let her know if a suspicious person was seen hanging around her apartment. 
It should be noted that this Trait represents a broad bond with a community, 
as opposed to the more powerful and specialized benefits offered by Allies or 
Contacts, though it would be possible to create a character with truly intimate 
ties by combining the three. In game terms, all uses of Influences within her 
particular community take half the normal time, and she can expect food, 
shelter, friendly advice and some basic medical help if she's ever in dire need. 
What's more, she adds her rating in this Background to all Social and Mental 
Challenges related to interacting with her neighbors, noticing something wrong 
in the neighborhood and otherwise keeping an eye on her community, reflecting 
her intimate familiarity with her neighborhood. The size of the community she's 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I ! 
1 
I 
I 
* 
I i 
tied to depends on the number of levels of this Background she has, as shown by 
the chart below. 
Background Rating 
Community Size 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Small group: immediate family or group of 
friends. 
Specific community: a school, apartment 
building, etc. 
Small neighborhood: a few square blocks. 
Large community: several dozen blocks, 
or a small social or ethnic group citywide. 
Broad community: entire section of city 
or a large ethnic or social group. 
Of course, such a relationship has to be maintained, and as with the Everyman 
Background a hunter who is noticed performing too many suspicious, criminal or just 
disturbing activities may well lose this Background. Likewise, ifthe hunter starts refusing 
to help her neighbors without a good reason, or abuses their trust when they come to her 
for assistance, she may quickly find her neighbors giving up on her, or even aiding those 
who come looking for her (though more out of petty spite than true ill will). 
Soulmate 
True love is a rare thing, especially in a world crawling with monsters, but a 
hunter with this Background has somehow managed to find it, and the thought of her 
love gives her strength to continue despite terrible odds, especially if her love’s life is 
at stake. Aside from the rich roleplaying opportunities this relationship offers - 
and 
the Storyteller should ensure that such roleplaying interludes are attended to properly 
if the player wishes to keep this Background - 
there are several in-game benefits as 
well. Once per session she may add her Soulmate rating to her regular Traits on one test 
of any kind, provided it directly involves reaching her Soulmate or protecting him from 
harm. Additionally, the imbued may spend a level of this Background to immediately 
regain one Willpower Trait, but only ifher true love is in direct, immediate danger and 
the hunter is actively going to rescue him. 
For all the benefits this Background offers, it has some substantial drawbacks as 
well - 
love is always a state of vulnerability for a person as well as one of support, and 
that is especially true for a hunter who routinely makes enemies of various foul night 
creatures. The hunter will do the best she can to protect him at all times, and if her 
beloved is actively in danger, she mwt go to help him immediately. Period. End of 
discussion. What’s more, should she ever fail to protect him from a serious threat she 
believes she could have prevented (note that it is whether the chrmter believes she 
could’ve helped, not whether the player knew she had a chance or not), she falls into 
a state of severe depression and self-loathing for a period of time determined by the 
Storyteller of weeks/sessions, putting her down a number of Traits equal to her 
Soulmate rating on all tests not related to her Soulmate. 
If her loved one is actually killed, such losses and lack of self-confidence might 
become permanent at the Storyteller’s discretion, and she may also gain a derange- 
ment related to the incident as well. If the Storyteller is feeling charitable, she may be 
allowed to re-assign the Traits from this Background elsewhere (Berserk is a good 
choice), but only after some wrenching roleplaying and an appropriately extended 
I
1
1i
1
i
I 
I 
1
1
!
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


time of mourning. It should also be noted that unless aplayer purchases the appropriate 
Backgrounds, a Soulmate is not a bystander and can’t deal with the supernatural, which 
may have nasty repercussions for the relationship if the hunter attempts to show her 
love the truth of reality. In no instance should a Soulmate be another imbued, nor can 
it be another player character. Doing so has a nasty tendency to spoil both character’s 
relationships as the players worry about the out-of-game numbers behind their 
interaction, and also ties the Storyteller’s hands somewhat in regards to the question 
of how vulnerable this true love is to outside forces. 
Steel Nerves 
Not all threats to the sanity of a hunter come from monsters and their insidious 
mystical powers. Indeed, while an active Conviction defense may protect the imbued 
from supernatural horrors, all too often hunters are exposed to “mundane” horrors - 
grisly murder scenes, threats to family and innocents, horrific torture and so on- that 
can inflict serious psychic harm on a hunter as quickly as any Supernatural power. An 
imbued with this Background, however, has somehow developed a resistance to such 
horrifying scenes -he might be a police officer or paramedic who sees a lot of grisly 
sights, or perhaps he’s a journalist who has covered scenes of genocide in the past. 
Maybe he draws exceptional strength from religion, or holds onto thoughts of his 
family to keep him going when even other imbued might pause or lose control. 
Regardless of the source of his strength, whenever the hunter is threatened with 
gaining a derangement from a non-supernatural source of mental shock, he may 
immediately make a number of Willpower tests equal to his rating in this Background, 
against a difficulty of five Traits. If he wins even one of these tests, the derangement 
is staved off indefinitely, though this doesn’t mean he’s not affected at all, just that he’s 
able to keep his wits about him regardless of the psychic anguish he’s enduring. In 
addition, if the Storyteller has described how the hunter automatically reacts to anon- 
supernatural horror (running in fear, freezing in panic, vomiting, etc.), the hunter may 
spend a level of this Background to ignore those directions and act as he desires, instead 
of spending the Willpower Trait such self-control normally requires. Levels spent in 
this fashion are lost for the rest of the night, though there is no limit to how many may 
be spent this way each session. 
Willpwer 
Willpower Traits measure the strength of your character’s resolve and sense of 
self. By exerting your Willpower, you can withstand otherwise untenable conditions, 
renew your commitment to a course of action or empower certain difficult edges. 
Willpower Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have permanent 
Willpower - 
your normal limit of Willpower Traits - 
and temporary Willpower, 
your expendable Traits. All hunters and bystanders begin play with two Willpower 
Traits, and more can be purchased with Free Traits (during creation) or Experience 
Traits (once play begins). When you expend temporary Willpower Traits or raise your 
permanent Willpower, you regain temporary Traits at a rate of one per game session, 
though your Storyteller may vary this to suit the pace of her game or to simplify 
bookkeeping. 
Imbued, bystanders and normal people all share the same maximum numbers of 
Willpower Traits - 
as with Attribute Traits, they are grouped by age, reflecting the 
ability of the human will to persevere and grow stronger over time. Once again, these 
maximums may be adjusted if the Storyteller desires, though in no case should a 
character ever be allowed to have more than ten permanent Willpower Traits. 
I 
I P 
I 
1
1
I I
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Willpower Maximum 
Expending a Willpower Trait allows for one of any number of effects. Generally, 
Willpower Traits allow you to keep self-determination and to empower extremely 
difficult or complex actions. Using Willpower is almost always a reflexive action, and 
does not count as your turn. 
A Willpower Trait can be spent to refresh all of your lost Traits in one Attribute 
category - 
Physical, Social or Mental. You may do this once per category per game 
session. This does not apply to Ability Traits. 
Expenditure of a Willpower Trait allows you to gain a retest when defending against 
a Mental or Social Challenge. Note that certain edges or supernatural powers may 
override this stipulation, as detailed in their description. 
Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for which you lack 
anappropriate Ability.Thus, youcanmake atest evenifyouwouldnormallyrequire 
a specific Ability that you don’t have or have used up. 
You can expend a Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to and including 
Incapacitated, for the duration of one full turn. 
Spending a Willpower Trait lets you temporarily suppress a derangement. If you 
spend enough Willpower Traits on suppressing a derangement, you may eventually 
overcome it. See “Derangements” on pp. 259-264. 
Certain edges or other imbued powers require the expenditure of Willpower. 
Gvnvictisn 
Conviction represents your hunter’s inner strength and drive for the hunt, and 
relates specifically to the use of edges and other talents unique to the imbued. It is 
separate from Willpower because it is imparted during the imbuing and represents the 
faith that a character has in her cause and her ability to continue with the mission, no 
matter what approach she might take to it. A character with a high amount of 
Conviction is full of energy and resolve for the hunt, while a character with little or 
no Conviction is exhausted and possibly dispirited as well, quite vulnerable to the 
touch of the monsters. 
ConvictionTraits are not described with adjectives. You simply have Conviction 
Traits, which are most commonly spent to activate the sight, Conviction defense or 
to power edges. Your starting Conviction rating is determined by your creed; this is also 
the number of Conviction Traits you “default” to after gaining a permanent Virtue 
Trait, as described below. You may also purchase additional Conviction Traits during 
character creation if you desire, to a maximum of eight. In no case can you have more 
than 10 temporary Conviction Traits at a time, however, and should you gain an 
amount that would take you over that limit, the excess is lost. 
Expending aconviction Trait allows for one of any number of effects. Generally, 
Conviction Traits allow you to keep self-determination and to empower extremely 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I 
1 
I 
1 
I 
difficult or complex actions. Using Conviction is almost always a reflexive action, and 
does not count as your turn. 
The Sight: Also known as a hunter’s “Conviction defense,” spending a single 
Conviction Trait makes you‘ character automatically and completely immune to the 
following powers and conditions for the remainder of the scene: illusions, artificial 
hallucinations, mental or emotional control and manipulation, possession, invisibil- 
ity or comparable powers, and any kind of supernatural fear or memory-damaging 
effect such as usually accompanies the presence of a ghost or shapechanger. No test is 
involved - 
such effects simply fail in relation to the hunter, although in the case of 
powers that affect an area or group other characters without such protection may still 
be effected normally. If a hunter is challenged with one of these powers, a hunter may 
simply declare “Conviction active” in lieu of performing a test, though canny hunters 
who realize a creature is trying to manipulate them might still play along. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, truly ancient or fearsome creatures may be able to 
try to overcome a hunter’s Conviction defense with their powers, but such instances 
should be extremely rare and reserved for moments of high drama, as the absolute 
nature of Conviction defense is part of the blessing bestowed by the Heralds and 
essential for letting hunter players feel they have some chance to stand their ground 
against monsters. 
In addition to these immunities, hunters with the sight active can automatically 
recognize any Supernatural creatures they see as being either not human or not liwing, 
though without edges or other knowledge they do not necessarily know what a kind 
of monster it is - 
they just know that it isn’t right. This includes the ability to see any 
ghosts or other incorporeal creatures in the vicinity, and spirits possessing a body are 
automatically revealed as if they were superimposed on top of the person they’re 
inhabiting. It should also be noted that while the sight does detect humans who have 
been granted a measure of supernatural power, such as an apprentice witch or a blood 
puppet, it newer detects other imbued or bystanders as anything out of the ordinary. 
Hunters must rely on other means to recognize each other. 
In mixed games with other supernatural characters, it is recommended that 
hunters can use an out-of-game sign to indicate that their second sight is active by 
making a “C” around their right eye with their thumb and index finger when they enter 
a room or when they first approach or are approached by another character who might 
be a monster. This sign is a simple and easy way of determining when a hunter’s 
Conviction defense is active in order to avoid arguments later. (“I used my powers on 
you before you had your defense up!” “NO, I had it on when I entered the room!” “Did 
not!” “Did too!”) 
Activating Edges: Some edges require the expenditure of one or more 
temporary Conviction Traits to activate, as noted in their description. Using Convic- 
tion in this manner does not count as a character’s one opportunity to risk Conviction 
in a scene (see below). 
Risking Conviction: Once per scene, a hunter may choose to risk Conviction 
Traits on a single edge-related test, reflecting his willingness to invest his faith in the 
hunt in his new abilities. To do so, the player must announce that he is gambling 
Conviction on the test and state the number of Traits he is risking, which can be up 
as many as a number equal to the temporary Conviction Traits he currently has. He 
is considered up a number of Traits equal to the Conviction he risked on that one test 
for the purposes of resolving ties or initiating overbids, potentially making him far 
more likely to succeed at his task. If he succeeds and accomplishes something by doing 
i
b P 
I 
I 1
1I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
I i I 
Optional Rule: Reacting With Conviction 
Conviction provides a wonderful defense against manipulation by super- 
natural forces, but it can quickly drain a character’s precious reserves to 
constantly spend it every time a new scene begins just to make sure a dramatic 
moment isn’t ruined by every hunter running screaming from the room. It 
therefore an option for the Storyteller to rule that characters are allowed to 
activate their Conviction defense as a reaction to the sudden presence of the 
supernatural rather than simply activating it at the beginning of the scene. 
Doing so can cut down on the amount of Conviction players spend, but at the 
same time adds an extra element of risk and suspense as well. 
System: Any time a hunter would be exposed to a supernatural force in 
some way that might cause a Conviction defense response, the hunter must 
make a Mental Challenge with the appropriate Abilityrequired to detect that 
particular threat - 
Intuition for educated guesses (“I read this is the most 
haunted place in this house, so be ready”), Alertness for physical signs of the 
supernatural (“Did you guys just feel a cold chill go by you?”) or Awareness for 
all other phenomena or just a general supernatural “danger sense” (“I think 
something just tried to touch my mind”). The difficulty is determined by the 
strength of the phenomena as well as the care taken by the supernatural 
creature to keep its efforts from being noticed. Success indicates the hunter 
has enough of an advance warning for the player to spend a Conviction Trait 
to notice a creature or block a power before it takes full effect; alternately, the 
player may simply spend a level of the requisite ability for the hunter to 
automatically detect the threat in time, though doing so can quickly exhaust 
a character’s Ability reserves. This system generally works best in hunters- 
only games where Narrator characters are portraying the monsters, as it can 
quickly add a cumbersome level of challenges to mixed games, though 
ultimately it is up to the Storyteller to decide whether to use Conviction 
proactively (as normal), reactively or some combination of the two. 
so, then he keeps all the ConvictionTraits he risked and gains an additional temporary 
Conviction as his character’s faith in his abilities is increased. If he is successful but 
nothing significant is accomplished, such as using Illuminate to try to find monsters 
when none are actually present, then he keeps his Conviction risked but does not gain 
an additional Trait. The Narrator is the final judge of what tests can have Conviction 
risked on them, as well as whether or not a success netted enough of a result to earn 
an additional Trait. 
If the player fails on a test that he has risked Conviction on, however, he must 
immediately make two Simple Tests. If he wins or ties either of these tests, the risk is 
simply considered a failure and the hunter loses only the Conviction Traits he risked. 
If he loses both of these Simple Tests, however, the risk is considered to have botched 
disastrously-not 
only does he lose allofhis temporary ConvictionTraits, but he must 
also roleplay the utter loss and vulnerability of losing his one sure defense against the 
darkness that surrounds him. Especially devastating botches may earn the hunter a 
temporary derangement or other handicap, if the Storyteller feels one is warranted. 
Gaining Ground: At the Storyteller’s discretion, one or two temporary 
Conviction Traits may be gained for a truly extraordinary success related to the hunt: 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I I 
I 
i 
I 
achieving some great victory, realizing a long-term goal, learning adeep insight related 
to a character's creed or philosophy, resolving a powerful between her old life and her 
new one, and so on. These bonuses should be rare, however, and reserved as a reward 
for intense drama and excellent roleplaying of the character's concept and creed, not 
just bounties for the hunter with the largest stack of monster skulls. 
Losing Touch: On the other hand, the Storyteller may also rule that particu- 
larly devastating failures related to the mission cost a character a Trait or two of 
temporary Conviction as well: losing a loved one to a monster attack, failing some 
important task in line with one's creed, finding out a deep-seated belief was a lie or 
some other devastating turn of events. Such Trait losses should be fairly few and far 
between, however; hunters lose things and make sacrifices all the time in the name of 
the hunt, and so only truly disheartening failures can usually earn this loss. 
Maxing Out: Any time a character has 10 temporary Conviction Traits, the 
player may choose to cash them in for a permanent Virtue Trait of his choice. When 
thisoccurs, the character'sConvictionreturns to thenormalstartinglevelfor hiscreed 
and he must begin the long trek back to 10 Conviction Traits before he can gain 
another Virtue Trait, thus deepening his understanding of the hunt and allowing him 
access to more edges as well. At the Storyteller's option, the Virtue Trait you purchase 
in this manner may have to be related to the circumstances where you earned the 
Conviction Traits you cashed in; for example, it might not make much sense to buy 
a Vision Trait if you earned your Conviction in a bloody battle against a marauding 
shapechanger pack. 
A character is not required to cash in his Conviction when he reaches 10 Traits; 
he might need all the help he can get in some upcoming battle, for example. However, 
while he remains at 10 Conviction Traits, any additional Traits that would take him 
over this limit are lost, and of course there's always the risk of losing most or all of these 
Traits on a failed or botched risk. 
Virtue Traits 
If a creed defines what philosophy a hunter follows, then Virtues are the essence 
of what those ideals are made of. While hunters are individuals and do what they do 
from their own motivations, for game purposes the three main approaches to the hunt 
have been categorized as Virtues. Each creed has a Virtue that it holds as primary to 
its philosophy, and the rating a hunter has in a Virtue determines how committed he 
is to that ideal and how well he understands it in the context of the hunt. 
Each Virtue assumes a different philosophy about the hunt. An outline of each 
Virtue's primary tenets follows, as well the common uses of and applications of Virtue 
Traits in play: 
Mercy - 
You understand that most monsters were once people too, and that 
many of them suffer terribly in their current state; while that does not excuse them 
from crimes they might commit, you strive to remember and possibly rekindle the 
spark ofhumanity that resides in even the foulest creatures. You know that the imbued 
only make more enemies for themselves when they make extreme assumptions; the 
only lasting victories in life come when both sides are willing to meet to discuss their 
differences and come to some kind of compromise. Of course, should a monster be 
beyond redemption, there's no choice but to put it down for good. 
Vision - 
You focus less on day-to-day problems, instead spending your time 
planning for the long term and - 
more importantly - 
searching for the answers to 
i
b P 
f 
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


the larger questions surrounding your new life: Where do monsters come from! Who are 
the Heralds? Why are some Chosen and others kft blind? What will happen ifdl the monsters 
are destroyed? What is all this sufferingfor? Only when such questions have answers will 
an ultimate solution be possible. 
Zeal - 
All the rationalizations in the world don’t do a damn bit of good for a 
victim who has suffered at the hands of monsters. You don’t care why creatures do what 
they do, you just do your best to keep them from hurtingothers, no matterwhat it takes. 
Failing that, you make sure they pay for their crimes, and if that means taking pre- 
emptive action to ensure a monster doesn’t hurt more people, well.. .. 
The Creed: Although on the surface it may appear to a chicken and egg 
argument, in game terms a character’s creed determines which Virtue is considered to 
be his primary one for the purposes of edges and Virtue advancement. Avengers, 
Defenders and Judges all use Zeal as their primary Virtue; Innocents, Martyrs and 
Redeemers have Mercy; and Visionaries, Waywards and Hermits require adherence to 
Vision. A character can have ratings in the other Virtues outside of her primary one, 
but a character’s primary Virtue must always be greater than or equal to her rating in 
either of the other two Virtues. A Defender cannot have more Traits inMercy or Vision 
than he does in Zeal, for example, although he can have an equal amount of Zeal as he 
does in the other two. 
Multiple Virtues: It is possible to have Traits in multiple Virtues, provided the 
hunter respects the rule about keeping his primary Virtue equal to or greater than any 
others. Splitting up a hunter’s attention (and Virtue Traits) in this fashion slows his 
access to powerful edges or other creed features, but offers the added advantage of a 
wider perspective than the one of someone who just has a rating in their creed’s Virtue. 
For example, an Avenger may start off with just a narrow focus on attacking the enemy 
(beginning with only Zeal Traits), but eventually realize that a larger scheme is needed 
if the war is to be won (reflected by the acquisition of a Vision Trait later on). Aside 
from the fact that a character may also acquire edges from these other Virtues that 
more narrow-minded colleagues might not develop, it is an excellent way of tracking 
a character’s progression as the hunt goes on. 
Gaining Edges: Virtues are used to purchase edges, a process described in more 
detail described in the edge chapter. In a nutshell, however, the more powerful the 
edge, the more Virtue Traits it costs for a hunter to acquire, as illustrated by the 
accompanying chart. A hunter may never have an edge higher than the highest level 
edge he has in his creed’s primary path, and he must have at least one edge ofeach level 
before he can purchase an edge of the next level - 
he cannot “skip” a level to learn 
a more powerful edge. Thus, a player who wishes to purchase a Devoted edge must have 
at least one Touched edge and Gifted edge from that same path before he can purchase 
the Devoted edge he desires. That also means that he must have a minimum rating of 
six Virtue Traits in that particular Virtue - 
one Virtue Trait for a Touched edge, two 
Virtue Traits for a Gifted edge and three Virtue Traits for a Devoted edge. Of course, 
he may purchase additional edges of a single level if he desires - 
purchasing both 
Touched edges of a particular path, for example - 
so long as he still respects the fact 
that he must never exceed the number of edges he has in his creed’s primary path. 
Edgeworks: Whenever an edge calls for a test of some kind, a hunter may add 
his rating in the appropriate Virtue rating to his bid for the purposes of resolving ties 
and initiating overbids. This reflects the fact that while hunters are human, when they 
call upon their edges to battle the supernatural, their own drive for the hunt fuels their 
efforts as well, possibly even raising them to levels that are beyond normal human 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
1 
t 
c 
f 
111 
limits for the purposes of the edge. Thus, if a Mercy edge calls for a Social Challenge, 
the hunter adds his Mercy rating to his Social Traits for the purposes of determining 
ties and overbids. 
Gaining Virtues: Virtues cannot be increased with Experience Traits; only 
“cashing in” 10 temporary Conviction Traits can increase a character’s Virtue rating, 
making for slow and arduous going indeed. (See the “Conviction” section for details 
on this process.) This also means that a character cannot develop any new edges until 
he raises his Virtues to a sufficient level, unless he decides to use previously “unspent” 
Virtue Traits to develop additional edges. Perhaps he decides to stay focused on his 
creed’s primary Virtue alone, sacrificing some versatility for the increased power and 
sense of purpose focusing on one path offers. Or he may choose to have Traits in two 
or even all three of the Virtues, reflected a broader, more well-balanced approach to 
the hunt that makes up in adaptability what it lacks in raw power. 
Consequences of High Virtue: Of course, there are some who are willing to 
pursue their primary Virtue to such a high degree that it begins to eat away at their 
sanity, even as it offers them commensurately powerful edges and other benefits. Old 
friends and causes are cast aside -only 
the hunter’s mission matters, and even close 
loved ones may be rejected as the character descends into the depths of her drive for 
the hunt. When a hunter reaches seven Virtue Traits, he acquires a permanent 
derangement related to his mission or his obsession with completing it; each addi- 
tional Virtue Trait beyond seven adds another derangement to this list as well. 
Stemming as they do from the close relationship between a character and the Heralds, 
these derangements cannot be permanently cured, though they can be temporarily 
subdued with Willpower Traits or appropriated edges and other powers. 
Although it remains the Storyteller’s discretion if or when the option should be 
used, she is well within her rights to declare that a character at seven Virtue Traits or 
beyond is so alien and obsessed as to be removed from regular play, either reverting to 
a Narrator character position or perhaps an occasional mentor (or enemy) role later 
on in the chronicle. This is not meant to punish a player for building up a character’s 
Virtues, but rather as an indicationofjust how consumed acharacter withsuchvirtues 
becomes, not to mention a way of safeguarding against characters being so powerful 
that they run roughshod over the game and other players. 
Derangements 
Mental instability and insanity plague many hunters, who are gripped by their 
guilt, fear, frustration and inability to deal with world that has suddenly opened up 
before their eyes. Some others suffer devastating setbacks that cause temporary or even 
lasting damage to their mental health, and may require months or even years of therapy 
to overcome before the hunter can be “normal” once more. It’s even rumored that 
hunters who are far along the path of their primary Virtue begin developing an 
increasing amount of derangements from their proximity to the Heralds, though they 
are still few imbued so powerful and widely known enough to make this theory a truly 
accepted one. derangements represent specific mental problems that sometimes crop 
up in situations of stress. 
Derangements are advanced roleplaying, and should only be taken with the 
consultation of the Storyteller. Fuller descriptions of them can be found on pp. 259- 
264. 
i
5 
I
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Negative T’raits 
As listed previously under Attributes, you can take Negative Traits to specify 
particular weaknesses inherent to your character. The listings of Negative Traits are 
included with the other Traits on pp. 101-106. 
When someone successfully guesses your Negative Trait in a challenge, you are 
forced to risk an additional Trait to continue with the challenge. Thus, if you enter a 
Mental Challenge but your opponent successfully guesses one of your Negative Mental 
Traits, you must bid and risk an additional Trait to continue with the challenge. If you 
do not have any more Traits to risk, you automatically lose the challenge. 
Merits and Flaws 
As optional Traits to flesh out your character, Merits and Flaws allow you to 
specify particular advantages or disadvantages that are not covered by Attributes, 
Abilities or Backgrounds. All Merits and Flaws are organized into specific categories, 
according to their type. To purchase a Merit, you must spend Free Traits equal to the 
cost of the Merit; taking a Flaw, conversely, hinders you with a handicap of some sort 
but offers additional Free Traits. You can take up to seven Traits each of Merits and 
Flaws. You may only purchase Merits beyond that point with Storyteller permission; 
on the other hand, you may take as many Flaws as you like (so long as you do not create 
a caricature rather than a character), but only receive compensation for the first seven 
Traits of Flaws that you take. 
Normally, you must purchase Merits and Flaws during character creation. 
However, with an appropriate story, you may be able to buy a new Merit with 
experience equal to double its value or overcome a Flaw (again, with experience equal 
to double its value). 
Longtime devotees ofMind’s Eye Theatre will notice that there is no section for 
Supernatural Merits and Flaws. This is no oversight, so don’t go reaching for that Laws 
of the Hunt to make your kinain/Kinfolk/ghouled hedge wizard uber-hunter just yet 
-if 
it wasn’t obvious before now, understand that neither hunters nor bystanders can 
ever have any supernatural powers, qualities or heritage of any kind. Period. No, most 
of these Traits offer instead relatively small benefits or drawbacks in a particular 
situation, because those are the kind of quirks that ordinary people have, and players 
should view them accordingly. 
Seeial Merits 
Approachable (1 Trait) 
People from all walks of life find it easy to talk to you, and getting even 
traumatized or suspicious folks to open up to you doesn’t take much effort. You are two 
Traits up on all such Social Challenges involving normal people or other hunters, and 
one Trait up on appropriate tests when dealing with monsters that still fancy 
themselves at least somewhat human. 
Early Adopter (1 Trait) 
You take pains to keep up with the latest technology, and while it may strain your 
finances from time to time, it does give you advantage when trying to figure out the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
i 
c 
i 
I 
- - 
____ ___ - 
- 
Trait-Staelring Fnr Funandrrnfit 
Some players will naturally look at this extensive list and see right past the 
sea of roleplaying opportunities before them, focusing instead on the fact that it’s 
often possible to load up on related Merits and develop a character who gets an 
absurd amount of bonus Traits or difficulty breaks in some fairly common and/ 
or potentially unbalancing circumstance. (“I have Acute Sense: Vision, Ability 
Aptitude: Fiream, Good Night Vision, Lucky and Daredevil - 
that basically 
means I’mup 10 Traits on all shots I take at night and have at least one free retest 
for each one, right?”) For sake of retaining some semblance of fairness, then, 
assume that bonus Traits or difficulty reductions from multiple Merits do not 
stack unless noted in their description, or if the Storyteller specifically allows 
such combinations to occur. As a rule, only the largest benefit applies, and in the 
case of a tie the hunter may decide which benefit he receives. This should 
restrain the urge some players have to build invincible super-hunters, while still 
permitting players to take related Merits if they desire. 
Naturally, this limitation does not apply to the penalties earned from 
having multiple Flaws that come into play simultaneously; the poor bastard must 
just suffer through his abominable luck somehow, and pray that his weaknesses 
don’t line up like that ever again. 
latest technology (that consumers might be familiar with, anyway). You are two Traits 
up on all tests to figure out how to operate unfamiliar devices. 
Funny (1 Trait) 
Good comedic timing is rare, but you have it in spades; not only does this get you 
more than your share ofparty invitations, but your knack forgetting alaughalso means 
that you know what type of humor to use in a given situation. You’re invaluable at 
keeping up morale, and are two Traits up on any Social Challenge to bolster morale 
or lighten someone’s mood in a helpful fashion. 
Good Listener (1 Trait) 
Most people just wait for theirturn tospeak, but yougenuinely listen to what other people 
are saying, and this willingness to entertain their thoughts without interjecting your own 
opinion means that people tend to tell you more than they expect to. In any apparently 
friendly situation that involves someone else talking to you more than you talk back, you are 
two Traits up on any Social Challenge to get information from them as your receptiveness 
encourages them to say more than they might otherwise would about a subject. 
Good Taste (1 Trait) 
While your knowledge of pop culture probably leaves something to be desired, 
you have a knack for giving the right presents, quoting the right wits and otherwise 
impressing other people with how cultured and refined you are. You are two Traits up 
on any Social Challenge to impress or make contacts with like-minded individuals, 
due to their natural acceptance of your excellent taste. 
Gossip (1 Trait) 
Petty rumors and juicy secrets may be the ruin ofpolite society, but you just can’t 
help yourself - 
when presented with a chance to learn such tidbits, you can’t pass it 
up. Fortunately, this also means that other gossips recognize a kindred spirit in you, 
i
b P
f 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
I 
I 
)I 
I‘ i 
which means that you seldom have trouble finding people to dish the dirt with. Lower 
the difficulty of all non-violent, non-Intimidation Social Challenge related to learning 
gossip or other small secrets by two. (Remember, this is gossip, not state secrets, 
although you can frequently make a surprisingly accurate tapestry of a target’s life if you 
tie together enough such loose ends.) 
Lovestruck (1 Trait) 
Ah, l’umour! You’re in love, and the world suddenly seems a much better place, 
allowing you to wake up more refreshed than normal each morning. Unlike the 
Soulmate Background, this love may be fleeting if you don’t work to maintain the 
relationship (causing you to lose the Merit). However, until such a thing occurs, you 
regain two Willpower Traits from natural rest anytime other hunters would regain one 
(between games, every good night’s sleep, etc.). 
Media Junkie (1 Trait) 
From TV talk shows to radio call-ins to online chat groups, you’re an avid 
consumer of pop culture, and if anyone’s up on the latest movies or music it’ll be you. 
While this can suck up your downtime to an almost unhealthy degree, you are two 
Traits up on all tests related to researching anything related to pop culture, or on all 
Social Challenges involving fellow devotees of these mediums. 
Natural Leader (1 Trait) 
Natural magnetism and leadership capabilities spring from your actions and 
words. Others want to follow you, and you easily take charge. You gain two Bonus 
Traits on tests of leadership, whether using that Ability or otherwise. You must have 
at least six Social Traits to take this Merit. 
Natural Politician (1 Trait) 
Machiavelli was pretty bright, but afew more years in thegame and you just might 
be able to give the old boy a few tips yourself. You understand how power flows in 
organizations, and whether or not you have actual Politics Ability or Influence, the arts 
of deal-making and power-brokering come naturally to you. You are two Traits up on 
all Social Challenges in situations where politics is a factor, whether it’s an interna- 
tional summit or a meeting of the neighborhood watch. You must have at least six 
Social Traits to take this Merit. 
Punctual (1 Trait) 
Punctuality is nearly a lost art in these hectic times, but not for you. If the boss 
wants you inameetingat 9,you’re waitingpatientlyoutside hisoffice at 859.Thismay 
not seem like that much of a boon, but being on time (and scheduling your activities 
accordingly) is so second nature to you that barring some disaster or deliberate outside 
interference, you are assumed to make all meetings and other appointments that you 
have on a given day, in addition to your hunting activities. Needless to say, this can 
be a wonderful aid in maintaining a double life without losing your job, or even just 
making sure that you make it home from zombie-slaying in time to cook dinner for the 
kids. (Narrators should use common sense if a hunter begins trying to abuse this Merit 
and devotes too much time to the hunt to possibly make it to all of their regular 
obligations as well.) 
Smooth (1 Trait) 
Regardless of your actual upbringing or etiquette skills, you have such a natural 
grace and carefree charm that other people tend to forgive your little foibles, even if 
they do not actually like you. Provided you’re not completely crass or bent on 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
1 
c 
i 
I 
antagonizing others, you are twoTraits up on all Social Challenges to get on someone’s 
good side in a social situation such as a party or a nightclub. 
Way With Words (1 Trait) 
You have a natural flair for choosing the right words to express exactly what you 
mean, whether communicating your emotions to another person or crafting a work of 
art. You are two Traits up on all Expression- or Performance-related Challenges 
primarily involving words and wordplay. 
Best Friend ( 2  Traits) 
Many people go their whole lives without a true best friend, but you’ve been 
blessed with one - 
through all the highs and lows of life, you may have fought but 
you’ve always stuck by each other, and even after the imbuing the two of you are still 
inseparable. She may not know the details of your new life, but she’ll still do anything 
she can to help you, and won’t ask too many uncomfortable questions either. In 
essence, you have a totally loyal and supportive Ally, but one who also demands more 
in return, since she will naturally expect you to do all that you can for her if she needs 
it as well. Still, when no one else will help you a Best Friend will still go that extra mile 
to save your sorry butt, if only to kick it around a bit for being so foolish in the first place. 
Enchanting Voice (2 Traits) 
Your voice is naturally resonant and commanding. All non-edge uses of your 
voice grant you two bonus Traits; you can seduce, intimidate and cajole with just a few 
well-chosen words. 
Fashion Sense ( 2  Traits) 
Dressing well doesn’t just mean keeping up with the latest trends and designers, 
it’s also an innate knack for knowing when to dress up (or down) and how to do so 
smartly, especially on a limited budget. You are one Trait up on all Social tests where 
your appearance makes any kind of difference, provided of course you have time to 
choose your outfit before you go out. 
Flirt ( 2  Traits) 
Not everyone is necessarily very attracted to you on sight, but when you decide 
to make someone the object of your affection, most people find it hard to resist. You 
simply have a talent for understanding the subtle give-and-take of flirting and teasing; 
you’re two Traits up on any Social Challenges involving such activity with members 
of the opposite sex (or the same sex who find you attractive). 
Good Judge of Character ( 2  Traits) 
Given just a few moments of conversation or observation, you can make a fairly 
accurate appraisal of what someone is like, and such guesses are right more often than 
not. You’re two Traits up on all Mental Challenges involving assessing a person or 
human-seeming monster, and one Trait up on any Social Challenges where you’re 
going on a limited amount of prior contact with a person. 
Great Liar ( 2  Traits) 
Whether from countless exercises or simply a good innate understanding of what 
to say and what people want to hear, you’re a fabulous liar. Even the most involved 
untruths have a ring of creditability when you speak them, and you have little trouble 
convincing others to take your word as truth when you want them to. You are two 
Traits up on all attempts to lie or deceive another person. You must have at least six 
Social Traits to purchase this Merit. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Laid-Back Friends (2 Traits) 
1 
I I 
1 
I 
I 
)r 
I‘ i 
You’ve got a number of good buddies, not quite as close as ones from the Best 
Fnend Merit or as powerful as an Ally, but still loyal to the bitter end and generally 
willing to help out as best they can with few questions asked. (Combining this Trait 
with the Ally Background gives you the best of both worlds.) Perhaps most important 
of all, while your friends have noticed you’ve changed a bit lately, they’re not going 
to poke their noses into your business too much, and are fine with going a while 
without hanging out, so long as you’re still friends when you do see them. 
Nurturing Partner (2 Traits) 
You have one or more children of your own, but fortunately your economic 
situation is such that your partner can afford to stay home with the children alone full 
time, which eases some of the burden when it comes to balancing your job and the 
responsibilities of the hunt against your family. Best of all, you have maintained a 
healthy loving relationship with your family, and neither your children nor your 
partner resent it if they must go without seeing you for a day or two. (Though this can 
change if you start missing too many days without explanation or begin taking your 
partner’s role for granted too often.) This Merit need not represent a character’s actual 
spouse - 
parents, grandparents or other people who might help take care of a 
character’schildrenare all acceptable aswell. Acharactercancombine thisMerit with 
but if you try to warn them about impending danger or give an explanation for a bizarre 
occurrence, they’re likely to believe you. They might even come to your aid if you 
require it, although this is hardly a certainty unless you have other Traits tied up in the 
local community. Indeed, unlike the Roots Background, this Merit confers no true 
power over the community, althoughcombining the two is certainly appropriate. (On 
the other hand, this Merit also doesn’t carry quite the same responsibility as that 
Background does.) 
Seasoned Traveler (2 or 4 Trait Merit) 
Whether from extensive book learning, a lot of time spent elsewhere or a 
combination of the two, you are well-versed at finding your way around in distant 
places, from cross-country trips to foreign nations. For two Traits, this applies to 
anywhere you travel within your home country; for four Traits, the world is yours to 
explore. Whenever you’re trying to find food, shelter, transportation or other basic 
goods and services in another location, lower the difficulty of any appropriate tests by 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 I 
t 
I 
I t 
Ilt 
two Traits. Note that this confers no automatic benefits in regard to any language 
barriers that might exist, althougha hunter with this Merit might be able to more easily 
locate a translator in places where she doesn’t speak the language. 
Socially Aware (2 Traits) 
Other people are generally blind to the delicate interplay between themselves, 
but not you. Reading the dynamics of a group or situation is second nature to you, and 
you can quickly puzzle out the true feelings people have for each other by studying their 
vocal tones, word choices, body language and so on. You are two Traits up on all 
Mental Challenges involving interaction between individuals. 
Trivia Champ (2 Traits) 
While most would consider your specialty a storehouse of apparently worthless 
tidbits of information, nevertheless the sheer volume of facts at your command means 
that you can often remember some relevant (if obscure) fact about the situation at 
hand. At the Storyteller’s discretion, once or twice per story your character may just 
happen to know a bit of information that the hunters need to complete a task before 
them. This Merit confers no special knowledge of the enemy or the occult, besides 
what might be known in pop culture (and which therefore might well be dangerously 
wrong to act upon). 
Upright Citizen (2 Traits) 
Before the imbuing you were a model citizen, with nary so much as a hint of 
scandal about you, and even now that same squeaky-clean image makes it quite 
difficult for other people to believe anything bad about you. You receive a free retest 
on all Social Challenges involved with maintaining your good name, although the 
Storyteller may well restrict some of your Ability or Background choices (or at least 
force them underground) to make sure you actually would fit the image that this Merit 
describes. This Merit is particularly appropriate to combine with the Everyman 
Background, though it is not necessary to do so. 
Vibrant Neighborhood (2 Traits) 
Every city has at least one neighborhood where “anything goes” and people are 
always coming and going on various legal (and not so legal) errands, regardless of the 
hour. You happen to live in just such a locale, and thus are able to get away with many 
activities that would be viewed as strange in other parts of town, as the locals consider 
them to be just more of the daily routine. 
Corporate Sawy (3 Traits) 
Business is war, so they say, and if that’s true then you’ve got a few tours of duty 
under your belt already. You understand the corporate dynamic very well, from how 
to motivate people to how resources flow in a company to the best way to climb the 
ladder, and have little trouble managing businesses efficiently and profitably when you 
put your mind to it. Anytime you try manipulating a corporation or a corporate 
employee in a business-related matter, you are two Traits up on the related tests. You 
must have at least six Social Traits and one level of the Finance Ability to purchase this 
Merit. 
Media Savvy (3 Traits) 
A natural-born spin doctor, you instinctively understand exactly the right things 
to say to journalists to present your subject the way you want, allowing you to create, 
suppress or redirect stories with relative ease. Given enough time to prepare or with 
a friendly enough contact in the press, you can even set up situations so that the press 
i
b P
I
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


will read them the way you desire. You are two Traits up on all Social Challenges made 
with journalists or news organizations of any kind. 
Supportive Family (3 Traits) 
Your family has always been there for you, and even though you may have 
changed since your imbuing, they support you and do their best to look out for you 
whenever they can, no questions asked. They don’t know exactly why you’ve made 
some of the decisions you have recently, and the can’t necessarily pull some of the 
strings that Allies or other “official” sources can, but they can offer much-needed 
comfort when the hunt gets too rough, not to mention dispense some family wisdom 
as well. Hopefully one day you’ll tell them what’s going on, but until then they’re 
content to help you out and leave it at that. You are family, after all. 
Lucky (4 Traits) 
While not even close to a supernatural effect, lucky breaks just naturally seem to 
head your way, whether it’s as personal as bumping into the lady of your dreams as 
you’re reading her favorite book or as simple finding $20 when you were just about out 
of gas. Once per session, you may decrease the difficulty of any test by two Traits 
(minimum one Trait difficulty), or put yourself up two Traits against an opponent - 
if you succeed, it is because some small lucky break occurs that swings things your way. 
Alternately, in a non-test situation the Storyteller may describe some minor but 
fortunate circumstance that helps your character, though again this Merit can be 
called on no more than once per session. 
You may not possess this Merit and the Innocence edge of Fool’s Luck; if you 
acquire that edge during play, you must spend these four Traits on other Merits or 
Traits developed during the chronicle. 
Physical Merits 
Acute Sense (1 Trait) 
You have a particularly sharp sense (specify which one). In all tests with that 
sense, you are two Traits up on challenge resolution. Note that this never applies to 
combat, unless the Narrator specifically says otherwise. You may have multiple Acute 
Senses, but you may only take this Merit once for each sense. 
Ambidextrous (1 Trait) 
You have a high degree of coordination, and you can use both of your hands 
equally well. Normally, you suffer a two-Trait penalty for performing tasks with your 
“off hand. With this Merit, you have no penalty for using either hand. Of course, if 
you use both hands, you still suffer the coordination penalty for both (see “TWO 
Weapon Combat” on p.257). 
Good Right/Left Hook (1 Trait) 
Whether due to esoteric martial arts training or just a lot time spent pounding on 
people, your unarmed attacks are particularly vicious. Upon making a successful Brawl 
test to injure a target, you may immediately make a Simple Test -on a win, you inflict 
an additional level of damage. (This can be combined with edges, when appropriate.) 
Hollow Leg (1 Trait) 
You can put away an impressive amount of alcohol for someone your size, and 
suffer little or no consequences for doing so unless you really attempt to poison yourself 
with the stuff. All penalties for alcohol consumption are halved, and you suffer no 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
I 
i 
I 
further side effects after drinking. (Bear in mind that the normal Mind’s Eye Theatre 
rules about drinking still apply.) 
Light Sleeper (1 Trait) 
While you still require the normal eight hours of sleep to be considered fully 
rested, you awaken at the slightest signs of a disturbance, whether due to ghostly 
whispers or merely those pesky neighbor kids cutting across your lawn again. You suffer 
no penalty upon awakening and can act normally (as opposed to those without this 
Merit, who are considered Surprised the turn after being roused). This does not replace 
the Endurance Ability or the Vigilance edge, though they can certainly be combined 
for maximum watchfulness. 
Natural Runner (1 Trait) 
You love to run, and have done so gleefully since you were a child. Accustomed 
to the rigors of running under all conditions, you subtract one Trait from all movement 
penalties in a combat turn. Additionally, when doing nothing but running (including 
dodging) in a turn, you can channel your energy to put on a superb burst of speed - 
by spending a Physical Trait, you may move an additional step that turn. Only one 
Physical Trait can be spent in this fashion per turn. 
Perfect Balance (1 Trait) 
You almost never slip, stumble, fall or even get dizzy. Your sense of balance is so 
well-developed that even on a narrow ledge or wire you can walk with ease. You are 
two Traits up on resolution of challenges where your balance is a deciding factor. 
Robust Health (1 Trait) 
You shrug off most illnesses with ease, and even serious afflictions or mild 
poisoning doesn’t slow you down much. Any time you must make a test to resist the 
effects of poison or illness, you are two Traits up. You must have at least five Physical 
Traits to purchase this Merit. 
Sea Legs (1 Trait) 
Accustomed to life on ocean vessels of all kinds, you are immune to seasickness 
even in the roughest weather, and ignore all movement or action penalties due to 
rough seas or unexpected ship movements. 
Bundle of Energy ( 2  Traits) 
A naturally vibrant and energetic person, you need only five to six hours of sleep 
per night to count as fully rested, and thus can work long hours without much 
difficulty. Needless to say, requiring less rest can be areal boon in maintaining adouble 
life or stalking monsters for extended periods of time. You cannot purchase this Merit 
if you have the Endurance Ability or Vigilance edge, and if you develop either of these 
Traits later this Merit must be cashed in for two Free Traits. 
Cat Napper ( 2  Traits) 
Although you might still require the standard eight hours of sleep per night to 
remain rested, you need not get them all at once - 
so long as the numbers of hours 
you sleep in one 24-hour period totals what you normally require to be rested, you’re 
fine. Additionally, you have little trouble falling asleep just about anywhere if you 
want to, though once asleep you’re just as difficult to rouse as anyone else unless you 
purchase additional Traits that dictate otherwise. 
Forgettable ( 2  Traits) 
When you were growing up, you thought your name was actually Hey You. It’s 
not that you’re necessarily unattractive, it’s just that your face is, well, easily forgotten 
by those you meet. While this means that you have to work twice as hard as most people 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


to be remembered, it can be a real blessing when you would prefer to remain 
anonymous. All difficulties involving recalling your appearance are increased by two 
Traits. This Merit is distinct from the Everyman Background in that it only applies to 
your physical appearance; you may have a paper trail a mile long, but luckily for you 
it’s unlikely you’ll ever be picked out of a lineup or off a wanted poster. (Of course, you 
can combine this Merit with that Background for a truly anonymous character, if you 
like.) You cannot have more than one Social Traits related to positive or negative 
physical appearance (Gorgeous, Repugnant, etc.), nor can you have more than two 
Social Traits related to personal charisma; if your totals ever rise above this level, this 
Merit must be cashed in for two Free Traits. 
Good Night Vision (2 Traits) 
From an early age you’ve had little trouble getting around at night, although 
chances are you never knew just how handy this knack would be later on in life. You 
have excellent night vision, and suffer no penalties at all for low-light conditions, and 
your natural self-assuredness allows to cut the normal penalty for operating in total 
darkness in half (though this does not apply if you have been physically blinded 
somehow). Additionally, you are two Traits up on all Mental Challenges involving 
perception at night. 
Sexy (2 Traits) 
Maybe your town’s ground water contained chemicals which sent your phero- 
mones into overdrive, or perhaps you’re just blessed with a fabulous body, but no 
matter what the case might be you’re pretty damn irresistible when you set your sights 
on a target. You are up two Traits on all non-confrontational Social Challenges with 
the opposite sex or members of your own sex who find you attractive, and should you 
choose to focus the full power of your charms at a target, you are considered three Traits 
up on all relevant Social Challenges. However, this magnetism can irritate others of 
your own sexual persuasion - 
you are considered one Trait down on Social Chal- 
lenges with such individuals in any situation where you might be perceived as a rival. 
Daredevil (3 Traits) 
Not only do you take outrageous risks, you survive them. Whenever you take a 
risky (some would say foolhardy) course of action - 
one with a difficulty of at least 
eight Traits or a potentially harmful outcome - 
you get one Bonus Trait on the 
attempt. This only applies to combats if you are outnumbered or sorely outclassed 
(Narrator’s discretion). 
Huge Size (3 Traits) 
Nearly seven feet tall and hundreds of pounds in weight, you tower over most 
adversaries (and allies). You have one extra Bruised health level. You should represent 
your incredible mass appropriately - 
wearing bulky clothing and carrying large props 
is a start, though an additional description tag of some kind is probably a good idea as 
well. 
Mental Merits 
Common Sense (1 Trait) 
You still have a lot of gut insight and everyday practicality. Whenever you’re 
about to do something that goes against common sense, the Storyteller or Narrator can 
make suggestions or warning about the action. Unlike the Intuition Ability, this does 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


not help you make good guesses, nor does it offer any special insight into a situation. 
It just helps you avoid doing something really dumb. Needless to say, this Merit is 
excellent for new players who are not familiar with the intricacies of the game. 
Concentration (1 Trait) 
You can shut out distractions and annoyances that would hinder others. When- 
ever penalty Traits are assigned for some outside phenomenon (harsh lighting, rain, 
loud noise, etc.), you suffer none of the penalty. 
Fast Reader (1 Trait) 
It takes longer to wash the ink off your hands than to actually read the paper, and 
you read War 8 Peace in the time it takes most people to commute to work and back. 
OK, those may be slight exaggerations, but you still read amazingly quickly, and retain 
what you have read as well. It takes you half the time to perform any actions that 
primarily involve reading, making you a valuable researcher and investigator. 
Good Map Reader (1 Trait) 
Given a map of some kind and the barest of directions, you can find your way to 
just about anywhere you need to be with a minimum of detour or delay. You have an 
innate sense of direction, and when traveling to a familiar location or when given time 
to prepare a route to an unfamiliar one, you can shave travel time between locations 
by a third, reflecting your knack for taking just the right path for maximum efficiency. 
Good Recognition (1 Trait) 
Other people might forget a face or a place, but not you - 
your ability to recall 
the names of people you meet only briefly is fantastic, and you can remember your way 
around places easily even if you’ve only been there once before. This isn’t total recall 
- 
that’s the Eidetic Memory Merit, above - 
but rather just a gift for remembering 
names and locations, even ifyou’ve only seen a face for a fleeting moment on television 
or heard a name in passing. The difficulty to recall a name or face you’ve seen before 
is decreased by two Traits, as is the difficulty to navigate in a location you’ve visited 
in the past. 
Healthy Skepticism (1 Trait) 
It’s hard to pull one over on you, since you naturally tend to view all matters as 
pending until proven and all people with caution until they earn your trust. This isn’t 
paranoia, however - 
you just usually need proof of some kind before you’ll buy into 
something, even if you sometimes get burned because of it. On the other hand, you are 
two Traits up on all tests to detect a lie. 
Natural Aptitude (1 Trait) 
Pickasingle Ability -youneednot actually possess it now, though you will most 
likely purchase it later - 
that you have a special knack for. You are two Traits up on 
all non-combat uses of this Ability, and it takes half the normal time to train in this 
Ability as well. You may take this Merit more than once, but each Natural Aptitude 
must be assigned to a different Ability. 
Religious Devotion (1-3 
Traits) 
Althoughmany imbuedfindtheirfaithsorelytestedinthefaceoftheevils 
loose inthe 
world, yours has endured and offers you additional resolve when the odds are stacked against 
you.EachTraitspenton thisMerittranslatesintoanextraWillpowerTrait 
that youcancall 
upononce per story, if you have time topray for guidance for atum/minutebefore attempting 
the task. Youmay only callonthisMerit once per session, unlessthe Storyteller specifically says 
otherwise, and naturally it canonly be used when performing deeds in keeping with your 
character’s faith-attempting to use it for selfishor impulsive acts not only fails to grant the 
i
b P 
I 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i[ I 
extra Willpower, but revokes this Merit entirely until you have properly atoned. Likewise, this 
Merit isonly available tocharacterswhoareappropriatelydevoted totheir faith; while players 
neednotbemelodramaticabout it inany way, theymustact accordingtothe tenetsoftheir 
character’sfaithandothenviseroleplaytheir 
abidingfaithas best they can. 
Time Sense ( 1 Trait) 
You can accurately estimate time to the nearest minute or two without the use ofawatch 
or clock. This is obviously very useful inknowing exactly how long you’ve been standing watch, 
tailingasubject,orevenhowmuchtimeyouhavebeforesunrise.. 
. orsundown. 
Code of Honor (2 Trait) 
Aspecificcodeofbehaviorandethicsguidesyouractions. 
It might be related toyour creed, 
or it mightnot.Afteral1, there’snolawthatsays anAvengercan’thaveacodeofhonorthat 
requireshimtospare womenandchildren,evenmonstrousones.Thisisaverypersonalcode, 
shaped by your own experiences, and you should work with your Storyteller to build and 
appropriate code (whichshould include some hmdrances andprohibitedactivity in addition 
to positive beliefs and passions). You gainone free retest whenever facing a test ofany kind that 
mightcause you toviolate yourcode,be it supernaturalpersuasion, tortureorsomeotherform 
ofduress, and youcount ashaving anadditional WillpowerTraitforthe purposesofresolving 
ties insuch instances as well. 
Determined (2 Traits) 
Whilethisisn’talwaysnecessarilyagoodthing,you’reexaemelystubbornwhenitcomes 
to sticking to your beliefs about something, and you resist mundane and supernatural attempts 
to persuade youotherwise withbulldog tenacity. Youare twoTraitsuponal1 tests to resist being 
persuaded to do something, including supernatural powers ifyourConviction defense isn’t 
active.Youmusthaveat1eastthree WillpowerTraitstopurchasethisMerit. 
Eidetic Memory (2 Trait) 
Your memory isnearly perfect, and you recall almost everything you experience with 
incredibleclarity. Asingle turnofattentionissufficienttocommitapage,pictureorshort 
conversationtomemory. Ifyouare involvedincombatorothenvisedistracted,youmustmake 
astatic Mental Challenge, difficulty of sixTraits, to successfully memorize the contents ofyour 
subject ofscrutiny. Youshould keep a“cheatsheet”ofyour memories to aid you and the 
Storyteller in“reco1lection.” 
Internet Sawy (2 Traits) 
Afairnumberofpeople haveat least arudimentary knowledgeofcomputersand their 
ability to locate informationonline, but yougo beyond suchordinary knowledge with your 
naturalskills-younavigateonlineresourcesinstinctively, andneed tospendonly the absolute 
minimumamountoftimefindingwhatyou’re1ookingforwhenhuntingfordata.Youare 
two 
Traitsuponall testsinvolvingonline investigation, includingaccessing hunter-net andother 
resourcesunique totheimbued.Youmusthaveat 1eastsixMentalTraitsortwolevelsofthe 
Computer Ability to purchase this Merit. 
Natural Linguist (2 Traits) 
You have a remarkable grasp with any additional languages that you speak or 
write (as per your Linguistics Ability). You gain three Bonus Traits on all challenges 
related to languages other than your native one, though you are assumed to use that 
one nearly flawlessly as well. Obviously, to be useful some levels of the Linguistics 
Ability will be required, though they are not actually required to take this Merit - 
1
I
f
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
c 
1 
I 
1 I 
without them, you have the potential to be a great linguist but haven't actually applied 
yourself enough yet. 
Unflappable (3 Traits) 
It's not that you're without emotions, it's just that you don't let them affect you 
as much as other people do. You are two Traits up on all Willpower tests related to 
staying calm or not overreacting to mundane circumstances - 
in effect, anything 
within the bounds of your pre-imbuing experience is probably fair game. This therefore 
differs from the Steel Nerves Background in that it doesn't cover anything related to 
the supernatural or even the truly horrific, just the kind of things you had to deal with 
before your imbuing. 
Direction Sense (4 Traits) 
A natural compass, you rarely get lost, and seem to have an innate sense of which 
way is north or where you are (and how far you traveled to get there). You can estimate 
distance and location fairly well, and are two Traits up on all relevant tests to figuring 
out where you are or how you got there. 
Optimistic (4 Traits) 
Not even the revelation that monsters exist has been able to shake your 
fundamentally positive view of the universe  as far as you're concerned, even the 
present trials and horrors are only the price for something better just around the comer. 
You're not necessarily naive, you just naturally believe that things will turn out OK. 
Every time a regular hunter would regain a Willpower Trait, you regain two instead, 
provided you maintain and portray your optimistic outlook. 
i
aptitude Merits 
Prodigy/Aging Gracefully (2 Traits) 
You have exceptional potential for a young person, or you have managed to keep 
yourself in peak condition despite the ravages of age. Select one Attribute category: 
Physical, Social or Mental. You are considered to have a Trait maximum equal to 
someone at their peak, thus allowing you to have more Traits in that category than a 
normal person of your age could. This Merit may be selected more than once, provided 
a different category is chosen each time. 
I 
legal Merits 
Specialist Drivers License (1 Trait) 
You are licensed for and experienced with driving vehicles beyond the average 
person's experience: tractor trailers, farm vehicles or even military transports. You are 
up one Trait on all Drive tests with such vehicles, although you must have at least one 
level of Drive before purchasing this Merit. Of course, actually owning such vehicles 
is the province of other Traits, but should you come across them you know what to do. 
Dual Nationality (2 Traits) 
A rare boon indeed, you were born to parents of different countries and thus have 
a dual nationality. This makes it much easier for you to enter and exit the countries 
you are acitizen of than foreigners, making them ideal places to visit if you've attracted 
too much unwanted attention (human or otherwise). 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Firearms License ( 2  Traits) 
The benefits of this Merit depend on the area the game is set in: in places such 
as the United Kingdom, where possession of a firearm is illegal, it allows you to carry 
a normal gun. In countries where you have a right to bear arms, it means that you are 
licensed to carry unusual or powerful firearms, or perhaps even a concealed firearm of 
some kind. (In other words, you do not need this Merit to have a gun license in 
countries that already have a right to bear arms.) 
Alimony Recipient (1-3 Traits) 
The bad news is, your marriage failed (either before or after the imbuing); the 
good news is, alimony means you have an outside source of income, which can be 
invaluable as the demands of the hunt mount higher and higher. The number ofTraits 
spent on this Merit indicates the number of levels of Resources you can have 
(purchased separately) that you don’t have to work for, and this Merit also indicates 
that your ex is prompt with his payments. Naturally, it is also a good indicator of how 
well-off your ex is, although it generally also means that you have children or other 
dependents you must look after as well. 
Bargain Hound (1 Trait) 
You have a nose for good deals, and given enough time to shop around you can 
on’t have to work for, leaving you free to d 
should work with the Storyteller to de 
money comes from; while it is assumed to be a fairly stable and secure source of income, 
it might well become a target of the character’s enemies over the course of achronicle, 
or he might lower it through splurges and incautious spending. 
Good Credit Rating ( 2  Traits) 
You’ve had a steady income for a long time, you pay off your debts before they’re 
due and otherwise have maintained a spotless credit record, which in turn means that 
you have access to a large amount of credit at the present. (What you do with it is, of 
course, up to you.) Your Resources rating is effectively one level higher if you choose 
to exercise your credit, although you must take care to pay off such debts if you wish 
to keep this Merit. You must have at least three levels of Resources to purchase this 
Background. 
Wealthy Partner ( 2  Traits) 
Your partner pulls in enough money to support the two of you at the level of 
Resources you have (purchased separately), and what’s more your beloved is happy 
with the arrangement - 
you can work part time or not at all, as you desire, allowing 
you to devote considerable time and energy to the hunt. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Flexible Job (3 Traits) 
Maybe your job requires you to travel a lot, or spend a lot of unsupervised time 
out in the field. Maybe you’re even your own boss, with no one else to report to. 
However you’re set up, you can effectively earn your Resources rating through a job that 
doesn’t significantly restrict your hunting activities. 
Paid Mortgage (3 Traits) 
You own your house, free and clear, and need not fear any more mortgage 
payments or the threat of repossession. No matter how poorly the hunt goes, you’ll at 
least have a roof over your head. 
Social Flaws 
Bad Liar (1 Trait) 
It’s said that childrendevelop the capacity for deception as early as two years old, but your 
talentforfabricationhasn’tprogressedmuchsince that tender age. Youmighthaveobvious 
behavioral telltaleswhen youtry tolie,suchasstammeringorblushing,ormybe you justtend 
toinventsituationsthatarejusttoofantasticforanyone 
togivethemcredence.Regardless, you 
shouldroleplay thisdifficultywheneverpossible, and you are twoTraitsdownonallSocia1 
Challenges involving deception in a social situation. 
Bully (1 Trait) 
Youlike to throwyourweightaround,anddon’tseeanythingwrongwithgettingyour 
way throughsocial pressure or physical force when you feel like it. Inaddition to these charming 
traits, youdon’t tend to dealwell whencompelled to follow amore forcefulpemnality, andtend 
tobe atroublemaker when you’re not incharge. You’re oneTrait downonall Social Challenges 
when you’renot the figure incharge, due toyour irritation. 
Children (1 Trait) 
You have children who depend on you for the necessities of life, not to mention 
love and support. Fortunately for them, you treasure your role as a provider and take 
pride in being there for your kids; unfortunately, the demands of the hunt can quickly 
place a strain on your relationship with them, and no matter how they feel about it, 
the guilt of neglecting your responsibilities takes a terrible toll on you. This Flaw 
requires a lot of downtime attention to be significant enough to count, and should only 
be chosen if you and the Storyteller are willing to mind it often enough for it to have 
a real presence in the character’s life. (A good idea to start with is to have the player 
draw up a weekly schedule of his character’s obligations as well as the kids’ activities, 
which not only gives him an idea of the ways they might overlap, but also a framework 
for the kinds of actions he can perform in downtime without threatening his 
responsibilities.) If you go more than three days without seeing your kids, either due 
to the hunt or other obligations, you cannot regain Willpower until you have achance 
to be with them again for a like amount of time. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this 
penalty may also apply for a time if you miss a particularly important event - 
championship game, class play, graduation, etc. - 
especially if you promised to attend 
or it would naturally be expected for a parent to be there. 
Chronic Pessimist (1 Trait) 
Determined to make Eeyore look like Shirley Temple, you learned long ago that 
everything sucks, and what’s more, you’re happy to share this knowledge with others. 
Nothing ever looks like it’ll turn out right, and even if it does you’re sure it’s only 
because that success is a prelude to an even greater failure down the road. Even for one 
i
b P 
I 
1
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
of the imbued you’re pretty down on the world, and that’s saying something for 
someone who knows that horrifying monsters kill people and poison the planet every 
day. Naturally, take delight in roleplaying this doomsaying at every opportunity, but 
remember that such fun does have a price: you’re down two Traits on all Social 
Challenges involving motivating people (such as Leadership challenges) or cheering 
them up in any way (such as Empathy tests) - 
it’s just not.. . you. 
Chronically Late (1 Trait) 
Delays, delays, delays - 
something always seems to come up whenever you’re 
trying toget somewhere on time.This isasmuchareflectionofnaturalprocrastination 
or inattentiveness on your part as it is external factors. Anytime you have an 
appointment to make, formal or informal, you must make a successful Willpower test 
against three Traits to be there on time-failure 
means you’re at least 10 minutes late. 
This can include entering the game later than other characters, if the time of your 
arrival is important. Alternately, the Narrator may choose to increase your effective 
travel times by as much as a third, to represent your inability to start a trip on time. 
Chronically Shy (1 Trait) 
People? Eep! Above and beyond the Negative Trait of the same name (though 
you likely possess that as well), you’re incredibly wary of strange people, and even 
worse with crowds. You’re one Trait down on all Social Challenges with people you 
don’t know, and two Traits down on all Social Chalelnges that address a crowd of any 
kind. And yes, these penalties are cumulative for crowds that are composed of more 
strangers than familiar faces. 
Clannish Family (1 Trait) 
Sure, your family loves and supports you, it’s just that, well, they don’t like 
outsiders much. It’s not that they’re necessarily mean, it’s just that they prefer to keep 
matters (and favors) within the family. This might not even have been much of a 
problem before, but since the imbuing they’ve noticed that you’ve been hanging 
around a lot with people they don’t know, or worse still, bringing these strangers home 
before the family felt comfortable with them. If your family constitutes or accounts for 
your Allies, Contacts, Resources or Roots, they flat-out refuse to do anything that 
requires them to directly or indirectly aid others outside the family, and will do their 
best to make outsiders feel uncomfortable whenever they interact with them. 
Collaborator (1 Trait) 
Whether it was a devil’s deal to remove a larger threat to both sides, or just an 
innocent exchange of information, sometime in the recent past you’ve worked with 
one or more monsters to achieve your goals. Or maybe you haven’t, but word-of-mouth 
in the hunter community says you have, and for one reason or another it’s been 
impossible to prove otherwise so far. Either way, this reputation can put a serious strain 
on your relations with more conservative imbued, and the Storyteller should take care 
to inform other player characters of your supposed collaboration, so that they might 
roleplay their reaction accordingly. 
Crude (1 Trait) 
You may be a trusted friend in private and valued ally on the hunt, but when it 
comes to situations that require a certain amount of manners or refinement, even your 
best friends try to pretend they don’t know you. You seem to break all the rules of 
etiquette, deliberately or otherwise, and thus are two Traits down on all Social 
Challenges in situations where tact or social grace are required. This Flaw can be taken 
in addition to Negative Traits such as Tactless or Obnoxious, because it reflects a 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


general ignorance of social mores as opposed to a more specific difficulty with 
particular behaviors. 
Cultural Snob (1 Trait) 
Yes, yes, we’ve all heard how much you appreciate fine art, classical music, the 
best wines and the sublime ambiance of a good French restaurant - 
the problem is, 
we’ve also heard how much abuse you heap on those who demonstrate the least bit of 
knowledge or enjoyment of pop culture. In short, it’s obvious to everyone that you’re 
a cultural snob of the worst sort, and you should do your best to roleplay this grating 
distaste for all things “popular” as well as possible. What’s more, when it comes to 
dealing with people who aren’t equally snobby about such things (read: just about 
everyone), you’re two Traits down on all Social Challenges. 
Defensive (1 Trait) 
Whether from a lingering amount of immaturity or an endless drive for perfection 
(in your mind, at least), you have trouble taking responsibility for your actions. Any 
time anything goes wrong, you always find a way to blame someone or something else, 
and become downright hostile to anyone who tries to point out this tendency as well. 
You are one Trait down on all tests that would involve accepting responsibility for one 
of your failures, and one Trait down on all Social Challenges with someone who tries 
to point out this lovely habit of yours. 
Eccentric Appearance (1 Trait) 
Perhaps you run with a particular clique -Goth, punk, raver, etc. - 
or maybe 
you’ve just got a truly unique sense of style, but either way your appearance immedi- 
ately makes you stand out in a crowd (at least among more ordinary folks). Aside from 
occasionally drawing negative attention from others who disapprove of your clique or 
style, you’re also easily remembered by other people. Any attempts to track you down 
through witnesses are two Traits up, and you cannot take the Everyman Background 
or the Forgettable Merit. Obviously, this Flaw also requires that you wear suitable 
costuming and makeup to mark your unique appearance, and repeated failure to do so 
will force you to buy off this Flaw. 
Gambling Addict (1 Trait) 
You can’t help it - 
whenever there’s a possible wager on the table, you just have 
to take it. This is bad news because while you probably have extensive experience with 
gambling, you’re addicted to it as well, which means that you tend to lose a lot more 
than you win because you can’t pull yourself away from the table when you’re ahead. 
Aside from the obvious impact this might have on your Resources, you must also make 
a Willpower test against four Traits to pass up achance to gamble. Once you’ve started, 
you must spend a Willpower Trait or make another test to stop gambling for any reason 
less than adirect threat, regardless ofwhether you’re winning (“I’m aheadnow, so why 
stop?”) or losing (“I have to at least break even!”). 
Ghoulish Sense of Humor (1 Trait) 
Youhave anhighlyactive senseofhumor, butnot exactlyahealthyone-in fact, 
you tend to find amusing what other people consider disturbing or outright disgusting, 
and thus have a bad tendency to crack inappropriate jokes at the worst possible times. 
Any time you’re faced with a gory scene or otherwise uncomfortable moment (such as 
someone consoling a crying victim), you are two Traits down on all Social Challenges 
due to your habit of belittling the situation or those involved in it. Needless to say, you 
should roleplay this behavior as well as possible, so long as you remember to keep all 
the jokes in character. 
i
b P 
E 
I 1
1 I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


. 
Icy Demeanor (1 Trait) 
Whatever that intangible quality is that makes people open up to others, you just 
don’t have it. No matter what you’re like on the inside, you habitually project a cool and 
hostile demeanor to those around you, and most don’t bother trying to get to know you 
any better than that. You are two Traits down on all Social tests with someone during 
the first scene that you meet them, due to your innate difficulty with presenting a likable 
face to others. This is distinct from the Callow Negative Trait in that it represents an 
ineptness at presenting yourself well rather than actual emotional isolation, though the 
two may be combined in to create a truly heartless and distant S.O.B. 
Impractical Dresser (1 Trait) 
Nothing says your sense of style isn’t that great, but your sense of timing could 
definitely use an improvement, at least in regards to what you should - 
and shouldn’t 
-wear when on the hunt. Whether due to job constraints, wardrobe limits or simple 
force ofhabit, you always seem to be caught wearing high heels when you need to chase 
someone, or tight-fitting clothes that restrict your movements as you try to climb a 
chainlink fence. Even some painful past experiences haven’t broken you of the habit. 
You are assumed to begin each session somehow attired inappropriately for the needs 
of the hunt, and thus are considered oneTrait down on all athletic- or combat-related 
Physical Challenges unless you specifically acquire extra clothes in-game and take 
time out to change during the session. This Flaw should be simulated as safely as 
possible with appropriate costuming, but should you ignore or readily circumvent this 
Flaw too often you may be required to buy it off, as it is obvious that you have finally 
learned how to dress to kill (so to speak). 
Insensitive (1 Trait) 
Relating to people in an emotional context is an awkward and uncomfortable 
experience for you, and your typical method of avoiding such unpleasantness (being 
very blunt about everything) doesn’t usually do much to smooth things over either. 
Most of the time you wind up apologizing without knowing exactly what you did to 
offend someone, since you have a difficult time figuring out how other people are 
feeling. You are one Trait down on all Social Challenges with someone in the grip of 
a strong emotion of any kind, and two Traits down on all uses of the Empathy Ability 
(these penalties are cumulative). 
Intolerant Neighbors (1 Trait) 
I 
Your neighbors are every hunter’s nightmare: they like their neighborhood nice 
and peaceful and quiet, and don’t hesitate to call the authorities at the first sign of 
suspicious activity or even a loud party. This is generally up to the Storyteller to bring 
into play, but a hunter with this Flaw had best tread carefully in regards to some of her 
wilder activities lest the police or other agencies pay her an unwelcome visit. You 
cannot possess this Flaw and the Vibrant Neighborhood Merit or the Roots Background 
unless you have a truly strange living situation (and Storyteller approval). 
Misinformed (1 Trait) 
Some time ago you latched onto a theory or idea that’s far from mainstream and/ 
or flies in the face of accepted science, and for better or worse you’ve incorporated it 
into your worldview, so much so that you tend to interpret events through the lens of 
this belief. You need not be pushy about it, but you do truly believe in it, and will stand 
that involves your skewed worldview (such as Science or Awareness), the difficulty is 
increased by two as you try to fit the events or information you’re seeing into your own 
perspective instead of vice versa. Note: You cannot take simply “the existence of 
steadfastly by it if it is ever called into question. Whenever you make an Ability test 
\ 
1 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


monsters” as your skewed belief, though you might be able to persuade your Storyteller 
to allow it if your character passionately (read: blindly) believes that all monsters are 
actually space aliens from the planet Zorg or some similarly outlandish belief. 
Mistaken Identity (1 Trait) 
They say everyone has a twin out there somewhere; problem is, yours is up to no 
good, and everyone knows it. You bear a striking resemblance to a notorious figure of 
some kind, whether a prominent criminal, infamous celebrity or even a feared monster 
or radical imbued. You must wear a description tag indicating this unfortunate 
resemblance. It doesn’t usually take much effort for others to figure out that you’re not 
your “evil twin,” but some hotheads or glory hounds might not stop to make the 
distinction before confronting you, and even then your presence is easily remembered 
by those who recognize you. 
Needy Friends (1 Trait) 
Perhaps you’re just too soft-hearted to ever say no, or perhaps you have (or are 
perceived to have) time and money to bum, but regardless, you’re the one your friends 
and other non-imbued acquaintances always seem to come to when they need help. 
From posting bail to giving a ride to holding someone’s hand, their need for you never 
seems to end, and while you still consider them real friends as opposed to moochers, 
that only makes it less likely you’re going to break free any time soon. In game, the 
Storyteller may reflect this from time to time by temporarily lowering your Resources, 
asking for additional favors from an Ally or Contact, limiting your downtime activity 
between sessions or otherwise indicating how your friends need you as the chronicle 
progresses. 
No Internet Access (1 Trait) 
Whether or not you’re familiar with computers or not, you have no ability to 
access email or the Internet of your own, and must rely on friends or local libraries to 
access this invaluable resources. Of course, this also makes it difficult for you to keep 
up with hunter-net, assuming you are even aware of it in the first place. The Storyteller 
may adjust theamountoftime it takes tousecertainBackgroundsor Abilities toreflect 
the difficulty it takes to get in touch with you 
No Phone (1 Trait) 
You do not have a regular phone number others can use to reach you, nor do you 
carry a pager or other electronic messenger. This can make it exceedingly difficult to 
track you down on short notice, and you must rely on other means such as e-mail or 
face-to-face meetings to keep in touch with your fellow hunters or plan for upcoming 
activities. The Storyteller may adjust the amount of time it takes to use certain 
Backgrounds or Abilities to reflect the difficulty it takes to get in touch with you. 
Nonconfrontational (1 Trait) 
Bringing up subjects you know others would prefer to avoid is acutely uncomfort- 
able for you, and you often find yourself giving in and accepting compromises you 
regret later on down the road. It’s not that you’re weak, it’s just that you hate being 
thought of as causing unhappiness to those you care about, so much so that you will 
go to great lengths to avoid it if at all possible. Any time you find yourself the bearer 
of bad news or in need of telling a friend or love one some unpleasant things, you are 
two Traits down on all Social Challenges for the rest of the scene as a result of your 
hesitation and unhappiness. 
i
b P 
f 
1
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Poor Online Demeanor (1 Trait) 
Sure, you’ve discovered hunter-net or a similar online community of the imbued, 
but now they almost wish you hadn’t- 
whether you intend it to be or not, your online 
persona is exceedingly grating and obnoxious to others, and they will aid you only 
grudgingly because of it. Add two to the difficulty of all attempts togather information 
or ask for aid from the online hunter community; what’s more, you are one Trait down 
on all face-to-face Social Challenges with other hunters who recognize you from your 
online postings. 
Shadowy Past (1 Trait) 
Maybe the imbuing really is intended as a second chance. You certainly hope so, 
because it would give you a chance to atone for a life you weren’t too proud of before. 
What was so bad about this life depends on what you and the Storyteller agree on - 
for example, you might have been a career criminal or abusive parent - 
but it’s bad 
enough that if it came out other hunters 
ell abandon you. Even if it does and 
they don’t, you’re two Traits down on a 
allenges with other hunters who 
know of your shady past until you prove y 
o themsomehow. It is assumed aspart 
of this Flaw that you’re not still engaged in the activities of your former life, and that 
actively trying to atone for. 
Socially Oblivious (1 Trai 
A bull in the social china sh 
I 
I 
You stutter, stammer or otherwise 
that makes it difficult to communicate, 
emotion. You are two Traits down on 
should roleplay your impediment accordi 
or parody. 
of speech impediment 
in the grip of powerful 
involving speech, and 
ough not to the point of offensiveness 
Stubborn (1 Trait) 
There are pit bulls, there’s ngmmmtis, and then there’s you- 
all three unwilling 
to let anything go once they’ve got a hold of it. All of your beliefs enjoy your full, 
unwavering support, and anyone who attempts to challenge them finds herself the 
recipient of as much grief as you can muster. Any time someone questions one of your 
beliefs, you are two Traits down on all Social Challenges with that character for the 
rest of the scene as you naturally close yourself off to her (not to mention the 
embarrassment if she’s actually right). 
Superstitious (1 Trait) 
Whether a cautious trait you acquired since learning that monsters existed, or a 
habit you’ve had all your life, you adhere rigidly to a number of superstitions, to the 
point where you frequently attribute the success or failure of your plans to how well you 
adhered to “the rules.” You need not risk your life or the lives ofothers on these foibles, 
however. Not only should this tendency be reflected on a constant level in your 
roleplaying, but you are such a stickler for your superstitions that you are two Traits 
down on all Social Challenges with anyone who disapproves of them due to your 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


conflict of belief. (As a rule of thumb, if you could imagine the person in question 
reacting incredulously or unfavorably to you performing one of your regular supersti- 
tions, this Flaw applies.) 
Trusting (1 Trait) 
You can’t help it - 
you just naturally take people at face value, whether due to 
an optimistic view of people or just a limited amount of contact with people whose 
motivations aren’t as noble as yours. Not only do you take them at their word, but you 
also do such incautious things as accept rides home from recent acquaintances or walk 
through bad areas at night, simply because you truly don’t believe something bad will 
happen. You are two Traits down on all attempts to detect a lie or judge the character 
of someone you’ve met for the first time that session. 
Abusive Partner (2 Traits) 
Monsters don’t just roam abroad - 
you live with a perfectly human beast at 
home, who abuses you physically whenever you’re home. Any time you spend the 
night at home, you must make a Simple Test - 
success means that you take no 
damage, while a tie means that you come into play next time with a level of bashing 
damage from the abuse. Aside from obvious social and psychological problems, this 
Flaw can also significantly impair a character’s healing times, and the Storyteller 
should make sure the character feels its weight appropriately. 
Compulsive Liar (2 Traits) 
Whether or not you’re good at it, you tend to inject your own special blend of the 
truth into what you say, ranging from little white lies to untruths that might potentially 
hurt others (especially when it comes to fellow hunters). At this point you might even 
believe the lies you invent, since you tell them so often. Regardless, you should roleplay 
this constant level of fabrication as best you can; additionally, in order to tell the 
complete truth for a scene, you must spend a Willpower Trait or win a Willpower 
Challenge against four Traits. This is also the case when you must tell a truth that 
openly exposes a previous lie. 
Conspicuous Consumer (2 Traits) 
Saving money is difficult when there are so many cool things out there to buy, and 
you tend to tax your finances buying brand names and a host of products you don’t 
really need. Add two Traits to the difficulty of all tests related to using your Resources, 
and cut the amount of monthly allowance it usually affords you by a third to reflect the 
amount of money you spend. 
Dogged by Fringe Media (2 Traits) 
The truth is out there, but the sad fact is that lots of people went over the edge 
right along with it, and for one reason or another you’ve got one such “colorful” 
individual following you around. Worse still, this person is an amateur journalist for 
an paranormal Web site or ‘line of some kind, and thus while you needn’t worry about 
his work landing you on the front page of the local paper anytime soon, he can still draw 
lots of unwanted attention toward you, especially if monsters happen to monitor the 
local fringe media. What’s more, he has the most annoying habit of showing up just 
in time to witness something bizarre or difficult to explain, which naturally only fuels 
hiscuriosity further. Youshould workwith the Storyteller tocome up withsome details 
about him and how the two of you met, although it will be up to the Storyteller to 
determine his true abilities and motivation. 
b P 
f 
1 I 
1 
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I 
1 
# 
f 
I 
I i 
Foreigner ( 2  Traits) 
While you might very well be fluent in the language and generally familiar with 
the customs, you are still not native to the area where you currently live (and hunt). 
You tend to be ignorant of small cultural details, and might have additional legal 
restrictions on you as well. Whenever you attempt Streetwise or Etiquette tests, you are 
two Traits down dealing with this strange foreign culture, and should adopt a 
distinctive accent or other mannerism that clearly marks you as a foreigner (without 
resorting to cultural stereotype). 
Honest to a Fault (2 Traits) 
Telling lies or even just bending the truth is contrary to your nature, so much so 
that you will not do it unless it’s necessary to save human lives. Naturally, this lack of 
practice tends to make you a pretty poor deceiver when you do attempt to twist the 
truth, and you are two Traits down on any Social Challenge involving deception. 
Infamy ( 2  Traits) 
You’re well known in the area that you live, but for all the wrong reasons. You 
might be a well-known criminal associate, or perhaps you were involved in a 
prominent local scandal that has never quite lifted from your reputation. While you 
won’t necessarily be attacked on the street, people do tend to look down on you or treat 
you with some hostility, and so you are two Traits down on all Social Challenges with 
those who know about your past. The Storyteller may also require you to wear a tag 
denoting your infamous status, to ensure that you get the kind of reactions that you 
deserve. 
Lustful ( 2  Traits) 
There are plenty of words for people like you, but regardless of how you want to 
look at it, even you admit that you seldom put up much of a fight when it comes to 
resisting the sensual charms of the gender you fancy. All attempts to seduce you are 
two Traits up, and in general you make very poor decisions when it comes to people 
that you find physically attractive, which should be roleplayed accordingly within the 
rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Monstrous Connections ( 2  Traits) 
Most hunters spend nights out monster hunting, but you needn’t look far to find 
at least one of the creatures - 
you have to deal with one in your daily life, whether 
it’s your boss, a key family figure or another regular fixture of your existence. The 
creature doesn’t necessarily know what you are (yet), but it’s in a prime position to 
cause trouble for you should it choose to do so. This Flaw assumes that the monster is 
in some position where you cannot easily avoid it, if not actually in a role that your 
hunter would have a great deal of trouble justifying taking action against (such as a 
parent or child). 
Nosy Neighbors ( 2  Traits) 
If something happens to one person in your neighborhood, chances are the entire 
community knows about it by dinnertime; your neighbors just don’t take no for an 
answer, tend to drop in at bad times and worst of all ask difficult questions when they 
do stop in. Anyone attempting a Stealth test in your neighborhood (friend or foe) is 
down two Traits due to the high alertness of the neighbors, and likewise any attempt 
to question them about strange events is two Traits up; while this may occasionally be 
useful in frightening off creatures afraid of exposure, more often than not it is a 
negative factor since the neighbors are just as likely to turn you in for such infractions 
as they are mysterious strangers. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Poor Judge of Character (2 Traits) 
No matter how hard you try, you always seem to fall in with the wrong crowd. 
Aside from (or perhaps including?) your fellow imbued, your “friends” tend to be 
moochers, petty criminals and other undesirables, and suffice it to say that your 
romantic history is probably long, tragic and highly repetitive. You are two Traits 
down on all Awareness-, Empathy- or Intuition-related Challenges in social situations, 
due to your difficulty in judging people correctly, and at the Storyteller’s discretion you 
may face occasional difficulties with Backgrounds such as Allies or Contacts if they 
involve your questionable associates. 
Stalked (2 Traits) 
Life as a hunter is terrifying enough without the additional threat of an obsessed 
“normal” individual trailing your every move, but you have just one such sick person 
who continues to bother you despite repeated warnings to back off (legal and 
otherwise). This stalker need not be violent, but he is definitely beyond all reason 
regarding his obsession with you, and his action could possibly escalate into violence 
later on. Every time you got out on the hunt, or even just out on the town, you must 
make a Mental Challenge against five Traits - 
failure means that your stalker has 
managed to get your trail and may well put in an appearance later on that night. And 
before you ask, leading this nutcase into a trap or territory full of monsters never seems 
to work out the way you’d hope, at least until you buy off this Flaw .... Until then, 
however, you’re stuck with him. 
Technophobe (2 Traits) 
You hate modem technology, especially computers, and you’re pretty damn sure 
it hates you right back. While you’re at home with tried-and-true things like cars and 
telephones, making any sense of cell phones, pagers, laptops or other newfangled 
gizmos is quite beyond you. You must make a Mental Challenge against five Traits to 
perform even simple tasks on a computer, ATM machine or other technological 
device you’re not comfortable with (which is most of them), and the Storyteller will 
probably restrict some of the Abilities you can take at character creation to reflect this 
deficiency as well. 
Moneygrubbing (3 Traits) 
Money makes the world go round, and you intend to ride the merry-go-round for 
all it’s worth. Everything is secondary to the pursuit of wealth, and you’re capable of 
performing some extreme things so long as there’s enough money in it for you. Any 
time you’re offered a bribe, even by a monster or other loathsome figure, you must 
either spend a Willpower Trait or make a Willpower test against six Traits to avoid 
accepting the bribe. This difficulty increases by one if you’re pretty sure the task 
required won’t hurt anyone (that you know of). In addition, you must make a similar 
test to avoid searching the bodies or dwellings of fallen opponents for valuables.. . or 
looting fallen allies for the same. 
Wavering Faith (3 Traits) 
There was a time when you thought your faith could get you through just about 
anything, but that was before.. . .The horrors you’ve experienced since your imbuing 
have shaken your faith to the core, and you have trouble mustering courage of 
conviction when everything you once believed is so obviously wrong. After all, how 
could a loving deity allow monsters to roam free causing suffering and anguish? And 
it only takes one encounter with a ghost or a rot to see that the afterlife is obviously 
not how you always thought it was. Aside from the wonderful roleplaying opportuni- 
i
b !
I 
1I
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


ties this Flaw offers, all difficulties on Willpower tests of any kind are increased by one, 
due to your shattered sense of confidence. 
Criminal Entanglements (4 Traits) 
Crime pays, as you learned when you went to some shady sources for a loan a while 
back; however, now you either can’t or won’t pay back what you owe, and that’s 
starting to.. . irritate your unlikely business partners. They’re not sending hit men after 
you - 
not yet - 
but they will definitely make themselves known before long, and 
what’s more they will have no problem escalating the level of their coercion in an effort 
to get their money back or make an example of you. Work with the Storyteller to 
determine exactly how much you owe and whom you owe it to, as suits your character 
concept. Quite likely, buying off this Flaw will involve a serious impact on your 
Resources or Influences, though any 
of resolution is up to the Storyteller to 
adjudicate. 
Unlucky (4 Traits) 
cropping up. Additionally, you seem to 
of karmic jokes, which the Storyteller 
progresses. You cannot possess the L 
et of a minor but neverending stream 
evoke descriptively as the chronicle 
or the Fool’s Luck edge, and if you 
Pacifist (5 Traits) 
at you for beingadamnedlunatic withadeathwish, butregardlessofthe favor ofothers 
your philosophy remains clear: you will not use violence of any kind, nor will you carry 
a weapon or purchase one for another. Given a chance, you do everything in your 
power to convince others to adopt a come of nonviolence as well, though you need 
not necessarily risk your life to do so. Confronted with particularly serious outrages 
such as a loved one 
against five Traits to 
an act of violence fo 
either come to terms 
roleplaying, or change your life philosophies altogether (i.e., buy off this Flaw). 
Physical Flaws 
Allergies (1 Trait) 
A common substance that’s harmless to most people - 
dog fur, pollen etc., - 
presents a particular problem for you, causing sneezing, watery eyes and other irritating 
symptoms. You are at a one-Trait penalty on all actions when exposed to this 
substance, and the symptoms take another scene to go away, even after you’ve left its 
presence. 
Arthritic (1 Trait) 
You suffer chronic pain in your joints, especially your hands, which makes it 
difficult to perform actions that require delicacy or fine motor control. Any time you 
must attempt such a feat - 
typing, sewing, working with small parts - 
you are one 
Trait down due to added difficulty presented by your condition. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Color Blind (1-2 Traits) 
Colors tend to blend together into an indistinguishable blur to your eyes, making 
it hard to give accurate descriptions or identify items by sight. You are one Trait down 
on all Perception-related Mental Challenges involving distinguishing or identifying 
objects. For two Traits, this Flaw indicates a complete inability to perceive any color 
at all, though color density is still visible as degrees of shading. While this monochro- 
matic condition makes you a natural noir film director, it also puts you at a one-Trait 
penalty on the sort of tests described above, as you lack even the proper frame of 
reference to describe colors at all. 
Distinguishing Characteristic (1-2 Traits) 
You have a permanent physical mark that’s easy to remember - 
a prominent 
tattoo, scars or a birthmark. Not only does this make it easy to identify you, but all 
attempts to track you down based on witness interviews are up a number ofTraits equal 
to the value of this Flaw. This Flaw is worth one Trait if your characteristic is easily 
covered by clothing, two Traits if it is not, and should be represented by appropriate 
makeup or description cards. 
Heavy Sleeper (1 Trait) 
On the plus side, when you want to sleep in, all the lawnmowers in the world 
won’t disturb a lazy Saturday morning in progress. On the negative side, however, 
chances are that a horde of rots beating down your door won’t stir you, either. Only 
striking or shaking you forcefully has any chance of waking you up, and even then you 
must win or tie a Simple Test to act the same turn as you awaken - 
on a loss, you 
cannot act at all that turn and count as Surprised on the one after that, reflecting how 
long it takes to shake the sleep from your eyes. 
Lazy (1 Trait) 
Why put off until tomorrow what can safely wait until next week? You despise 
physical labor of any kind, and even faced with arather pressing need you would rather 
debate what needs to be done for hours than actually get up off your posterior to get 
it going. Any time you are faced with doing work not directly relating to the hunt or 
to keeping your job (if you have one), you must make a Willpower test against four 
Traits-failure 
means that youcannot be bothered toperformsuch routine tasksuntil 
some time later. 
Low Alcohol Tolerance (1 Trait) 
If someone opens a beer in the next room, you head starts getting fuzzy, and in 
general you tend to feel the effects ofalcohol long before others would. You suffer twice 
the normal penalties related for intoxication, as well as suffer a one-Trait penalty on 
all actions the next day due to the nasty hangovers you’re prone to getting. 
Motion Sickness (1 Trait) 
Try as you might, you’ve never developed a stomach for things like sea voyages 
or carnival rides, and even a long trip by car soon becomes an adventure in nausea for 
you. Any time you spend more than 15 minutes on a boat or plane, or more than 30 
minutes in a car, you are at a one-Trait penalty on all actions for the rest of the trip 
as well as a full half-hour afterward, due to the sickness such journeys cause. 
No Sense of Smelnaste (1 Trait) 
Your sense of smell or taste is completely gone, whether due to a genetic defect 
or some sort offreak accident. You are at a one-Trait penalty on all Perception-related 
tests involving your deficient sense, but on the other hand you suffer half the normal 
penalty (round down) when it comes to dealing with unpleasant odors or tastes, as 
appropriate. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Nonswimmer (1 Trait) 
Maybe you were raised somewhere in the Midwest, or perhaps you watched too 
many shark movies as a child, but either way you never learned how to swim and have 
no natural aptitude for it now. If thrust into an aquatic situation the best you can 
manage is a pitiful doggie paddle. You are two Traits down on all Athletics tests 
involving swimming, and might even panic if dropped into water. 
Poor Eyesight (1 or 3 Traits) 
Your natural eyesight is extremely poor, and you have a two+Trait penalty on all 
tests involving vision (including ranged combat tests). Obviously, you cannot have 
this Flaw and any Merits related to acute vision. This Flaw is worth one Trait if this 
difficulty can be corrected witheyeglasses or contact lenses, or three Traits if it cannot. 
Poor Hearing ( 1 or 3 Traits) 
You have substantial difficulty hearing, and suffer a two-Trait penalty on all tests 
of hearing. Obviously, you cannot have this Flaw and any Merits related to acute 
hearing. This Flaw is worth one Trait if this difficulty can be corrected wirh a hearing 
aid, or three Traits if it cannot. 
Sickly (1 Trait) 
It seems you’re always coming down with some sickness or another, and no matter 
how often you get them, your immune system doesn’t seem to be getting any better at 
fighting them off. Indeed, you are two Traits down on all tests to resist diseases and 
other infections, and should roleplay your constant low-level sickness when possible. 
This is distinct from the Sickly Negative Trait in that it reflects a weakened immune 
system, as opposed to simply a frail body, though they can be combined if the player 
desires. 
Vice (1-3 Traits) 
Somewhere along the line you got trapped in an addiction, and like it or not you 
still haven’t kicked the habit. The value of this Flaw depends on how common (and 
legal) the substance is, and to a lesser extent how addicted the character is to it. One 
Trait would indicate an addiction to a legal and easily obtainable substance, such as 
cigarettes or a $10-a-day coffee fixation. Two Traits indicates a legal or mildly illegal 
substance that impairs the hunter’s ability to carry on the hunt, such as marijuana or 
ecstasy. Three Traits indicates an addiction to a highly illegal and/or extremely 
dangerous drug such as heroin or crack. You are considered to always be under the 
effect of this substance (Storyteller discretion, but should be far more negative than 
positive overall), and should you be denied it you may begin losing Willpower or 
suffering Trait penalties temporarily as you go through withdrawal. 
Youthful Appearance (1 Trait) 
No matter how old you might be, you appear to be underage for many adult 
activities, and can count on being carded, looked down and otherwise harassed by 
those who believe you’re nothing more than a minor. You are one Trait down on all 
attempts to persuade others that you are in fact of legal age, as well as on all Social 
Challenges with those inclined to distrust young people (concert security guards, 
cynical police officers, etc.). If you do not already have an appearance that simulates 
up this Flaw, a description tag is recommended to alert other players to your apparent 
youth. 
Disfigured (2 Traits) 
A hideous disfigurement mars your face, and your revolting countenance is hard 
to forget (try though others might). You cannot take any Appearance-related Social 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
Traits, and you suffer a two-Trait penalty on all Social Challenges except intimidation 
when your face is visible. Makeup or a mask of some kind is recommended to ensure 
this Flaw has maximum effect, though a description tag will also do in a pinch. 
Insomniac (2 Traits) 
Sleep is a precious commodity for the imbued, but you have trouble getting even 
a few hours of sleep, and your daytime performance frequently suffers because of it. A 
Willpower test against a difficulty of five Traits is required before each session begins 
- 
if it fails, you are assumed to have gotten inadequate sleep the night before. Aside 
from the hours of frustrated tossing and turning or mindless infomercial watching this 
entails, you also suffer a one-Trait penalty on all Alertness-, Awareness- and Intuition- 
related tests due to your dull senses and groggy thinking. This Flaw cannot be selected 
if you have either the Endurance Ability or the Vigilance edge, and if you acquire those 
Traits later, the Traits from this Flaw must be reassigned to another as soon as possible. 
Low Pain Tolerance (2 Traits) 
While you’re not necessarily any weaker than others, you have a much lower 
tolerance for pain than other people your size, and tend to cave in when confronted 
by the slightest period of discomfort. You suffer an additional one-Trait penalty 
whenever you are reduced below your last Bruised level, and have a similar penalty on 
all attempts to resist physical torture or intimidation as well. 
Old Injury (2 Traits) 
At one point in the past you sustained a serious injury, and it continues to pain 
you to this day - 
you are at a one-Trait penalty on all Athletics tests due to discomfort, 
and should roleplay dealing with this old war wound accordingly. 
Poor Night Vision (2 Traits) 
Maybe your parents forbade you to go out at night, or perhaps you lacked the right 
vitamins in your diet, but regardless of the cause you have a terrible time getting around 
in low-light conditions. You are down two Traits on all tests made in dim light (such 
as those attempted by mere starlight or a simple flashlight beam), and suffer an 
additional one-Trait penalty on all combat conditions while fighting in low- or no- 
light conditions. Needless to say, this can be a devastating handicap when trying to 
adapt to your new life. The Discern edge eliminates this Flaw while active, although 
other vision-related edges such as Witness or Illuminate offer no such relief. 
Short (2 Traits) 
You have trouble seeing over things, interacting with tall people and escaping 
notice due to your proportions. You can only take two steps in an action instead of 
three, due to your small size. You also have trouble reaching countertops and 
manipulating objects designed for normal people (like cars). You should wear a tag to 
note your condition if you are not actually that short. 
Crippled Limb (3 Traits) 
More severe than simply suffering from a twitchy limb like the Lame Negative 
Physical Trait, you have extensive damage to one of your arms or legs. If one of your 
arms is injured, you suffer a two-Trait penalty on any actions that normally require two 
hands (firing a rifle, climbing a wall, etc.). You should also adopt a posture or prop that 
indicates your limb’s useless nature. If one of your legs is crippled, you can only take 
one step per action, you cannot run at all and you should probably take the Negative 
Trait Lame as well. Additionally, you should roleplay this impairment with a cane or 
a set of leg braces. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Deformity (3 Traits) 
A physical deformity of some sort not only mars your appearance, but makes 
physical activity difficult for you. You have one penalty Trait on challenge resolution 
for Physical Challenges, and two for Social Challenges. You should work with the 
Storyteller to define the nature of your Deformity (hunchback, club foot, etc.). 
Elderly (3 Traits) 
Most people are closer to the prime of their life when the imbuing strikes, but 
you’re the exception to that rule -while 
this means you can often offer advice on a 
wide range of topics, it has put a few limitations on your physical performance. While 
you might be just as strong or fast as your younger counterparts, you don’t have the 
stamina you once did; after any period of exertion (combat certainly included), you 
must make a Physical Challenge against seven Traits. Failure means that you must stop 
and catch your breath for at least 10 minutes, and suffer a one-Trait penalty to all 
actions until you do so. Likewise, your wound penalties are increased by one. This Flaw 
should be indicated by appropriate makeup or description cards. 
Shaky Hands (3 Traits) 
When you’re under pressure, your hands have a bad tendency to shake uncontrol- 
lably, making it difficult to perform actions that require any kind of manual dexterity 
(such as reloading a revolver or picking a lock). You may be as brave as the next hunter, 
but all the same you still suffer from this dangerous quirk, and are at aone-Trait penalty 
on all tests involving fine coordination. You must make a Physical Challenge against 
a difficulty of five Traits (retest with Firearms) to reload a revolver or shotgun during 
combat; failure means your turn is wasted and you must attempt to reload again 
another round. 
Missing Eye (3 Traits) 
Whether by injury or defect, you are missing an eye or one of your eyes does not 
function. You are two Traits down on tests of depth perception, including ranged 
combat. Depending on the nature of your eye damage, you may choose to wear an 
eyepatch, or you may simply have one blind eye. Oddly enough, theDiscern edge allows 
you to see as though you still possessed both of your eyes. 
Child (4 Traits) 
A true rarity among hunters, you were imbued as a child, between five and 10 
years of age. This causes some decided problems: you cannot have more than six 
Physical Traits normally and you suffer a two-Trait penalty on tests of authority with 
adults. Obviously, given enough time you will eventually grow out of this Flaw, so to 
speak, but until then you’re in for a multitude of headaches at least as bad as the 
protections and freedoms it provides. You must additionally take the Flaw Short 
(though you do get Free Traits for it), and a description tag of some kind is required 
to alert players to your tender age. 
Chronic Illness (4 
Traits) 
Whether acquired since the hunt began or a holdover from your life before, you 
suffer under a debilitating illness of some kind, from chronic fatigue syndrome to 
cancer, and as a result you tend to tire and injure more easily than most. You are two 
Traits down on all Athletics tests, as well as any tests involving absorbing punishment 
of any kind. You cannot have more than five Physical Traits if you wish to take this 
Merit, and may even lose them slowly as the chronicle - 
and your illness - 
progresses. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I 
1 
I I 
I 
Deaf (4 Traits) 
You are completely deaf, and must use sign language or some other form of 
communication. On the plus side, this renders you immune to certain supernatural 
powers that rely on hearing to function, but you also suffer a three-Trait penalty on 
tests of perception and alertness. In addition, you are automatically Surprised by 
anyone who approaches you fromoutside your line of sight. Needless to say, you cannot 
possess any Merits or other Traits related to good hearing. 
Mute (4 Traits) 
You cannot speak at all. You should use sign language or write down your 
communications. You can explain your actions to a Storyteller or Narrator, but that 
is the limit of your speaking. Without Linguistics, you may not even be able to sign. You 
also cannot use any edges which rely on the spoken word to function, such as Bluster 
or Insinuate, unless your Storyteller allows you to come up with an equally compelling 
alternative for your condition. This can be a difficult Flaw to roleplay, so choose 
carefully. 
Blind (6 Traits) 
The world of sight is lost to you. You cannot see at all, so you automatically lose 
all ties where sight would be a factor (tests of manual dexterity, for instance). What’s 
more, you automatically fail any challenge that rely solely on sight, and the hunter 
code is obviously of no use to you at all. The Discern edge allows you to see again 
normally, if only for a time; at the Storyteller’s discretion, you may still be able to use 
your Conviction perceptions or even vision-related edges like Witness or Illuminate by 
developing your other senses to a higher degree instead. If you have this Flaw, you 
should wear a special tag or glasses to indicate its nature. 
Mentalllaws 
Medicated (1-5 Traits) 
You require some form of medication to stay healthy; exactly how often you 
require it (not to mention how difficult it is to acquire) determines the value of this 
Flaw. One Trait indicates a medication that matters for long term health but which 
has little impact on everyday life, such as cholesterol medication; three Traits 
indicates something more serious, such as heart or liver pills; five Traits means that 
your character requires daily doses of medication to keep her alive, such as insulin for 
a diabetic. Missing a day’s worth of medicine inflicts a level of bashing or lethal 
damage, depending on the seriousness of the condition. This damage cannot be healed 
until the character gets back on his medication, at which time it heals at a rate of one 
level every 12 hours. 
Nightmares (1 Trait) 
Hideous nightmares about monsters stalk through your mind whenever you 
slumber. At a Narrator’s discretion, you may suffer nightmares so bad that you are 
unable to sleep restfully, causing you to be two Traits down on the first test you make 
against monsters that day. Acrafty Storyteller is usually quick to take advantage of this 
Flaw to introduce all sorts of mood and foreshadowing as well. You may possess this 
Flaw and the Vigilance edge or Endurance Ability -you 
may need less sleep, but it’s 
still as bad as a full night’s rest when you finally close your eyes. 
No Sense of Direction (1 Trait) 
Maps, compasses, heck, even GPS technology and a personal guide - 
none of 
it does you any good, you still get lost all the time anyway. You have trouble keeping 
i
C !
I 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


your bearings in all but the most familiar surroundings, and are two Traits down on any 
tests to navigate or otherwise try to feel out your way to a location. This doesn’t include 
trailing a target, though it might make for an interesting trip home, especially if he 
went through some bad parts of town.. .. 
Poor Sense of Time (1 Trait) 
It’s very difficult for you to estimate the passage of time without a clock on hand, 
and as a result you tend to over or underestimate how much time has passed by five 
minutes or more, which can be a critical mistake when you’re attempting to go along 
with a tightly planned operation. This Flaw largely relies on the player to roleplay 
correctly, though the Narrator may impose a one-Trait penalty on all tests involving 
estimating the passage of time correctly, including demolitions work or arriving at the 
right time to rescue a fellow hunter. 
Short Temper (1 Trait) 
Setbacks of any kind irritate you a great deal, and truth be told, you tend to 
overreact when faced with the slightest 
y enacting your plans. If you fail to win 
at least one test in an extended serie 
as picking a lock or even fighting a 
monster), or come up short on a parti 
portant single challenge (Narrator’s 
discretion), you are at a one-Trait penalty on all other tests for the rest of the scene 
a place, and should 
roleplay this inability to remember these details accordingly. Should it ever become 
essential to remember such information, you must make a Mental Challenge against 
five Traits to recall what yoh’re looking for; failure means that you simply can’t draw 
it out. (You meet so many people in a day, after all.) 
Absent-Minded (2 Traits) 
Whether due to advanced age or just a natural trait, you tend to forget details that 
other people take for granted. Once per session, when you try to use an item that you 
would normally bring with you, the Narrator may require you to make a Willpower test 
against five Traits. If you fail, you forgot to bring the item in question, and you must 
go searching for it before it’ll turn up again (it always does by the end of scene, if you 
look). 
Attention-Deficit Disorder (2 T 
No one posts you to guard duty unless they have no choice, and chances are you’re 
first one to drift off during planning sessions - 
you can’t help it, but it’s just about 
impossible for you to sit still and pay attention for any length of time. If you are ever 
required to perform an action that requires more than ten minutes of constant 
supervision, such as standing guard outside a stronghold or watching for signs of 
activity in a monster lair, you must make a Willpower test against six Traits. Failure 
means that you become distracted somehow; you neednot abandon your post outright, 
but you have a two-Trait penalty for the rest of that scene to all Perception-related tests 
due to your inattentiveness. 
Dyslexic (2 Traits) 
While not necessarily stupid or uneducated by any means, you have a tremendous 
difficulty reading the printed word, such that even the simplest documents often take 
you a great deal of time to work through. You are two Traits down on all tests to 
decipher maps or read documents of any kind, and such activities take half again as 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
1 
I i 
I 
long as they would for another character to reflect the additional difficulty you have 
working through such sources. 
Eating Disorder ( 2  Traits) 
Whether a victim of cultural expectations or simply possessed of an unhealthy 
desire to stay trim, you have developed an eating disorder that is wrecking your body’s 
natural balance. You are two Traits down on all Stamina-related Physical Challenges, 
reflecting the weakness and malnutrition you’ve forced upon yourself. 
Language Barrier (2-3 Traits) 
You cannot speak the language or dialect of the area you operate in, which means 
that you must rely on clumsy guidebooks or translators in order to get your point across. 
For two Traits, you can read the language but have trouble using it in conversation 
(you’re at a two-Trait penalty on all related Social Challenges); for three Traits, you 
can neither speak it nor read it. Needless to say, you cannot learn the local language 
any further until you buy off this Flaw. 
Overconfident ( 2  Traits) 
Maybe you’re a talented individual who’s just a bit too sure of himself, or perhaps 
you’re just a show-off with an thoroughly unfounded opinion of his own merit, but 
either way you tend to underestimate your opposition at the same time that you 
overestimate your own capabilities. This can be a dangerous Flaw indeed when the 
hunt is involved, and once per session the Narrator may secretly add three Traits to 
the difficulty of one test to reflect how your inflated opinion of yourself has led you to 
draw the wrong conclusion about your situation. You also tend to jump in where others 
would hold back for at least a moment or two, which can lead to a short hunting career 
indeed. 
Faint of Heart (3 Traits) 
You have a weak stomach for scenes of gore and carnage; even cheesy horror films 
can make you queasy, and when confronted by an actual scene of such depravity you 
must make a Willpower test against adifficulty offiveTraits to avoid losing your lunch. 
Failure means that you’re overcome with nausea for the next 10 minutes, and while 
youstillmay attempt other actions thanretching iftheneedisgreat, allsuchtestssuffer 
a one-Trait penalty while the sickness lasts. 
Incompetent ( 3  Traits) 
You are absolutely terrible at one Ability, but unfortunately it seems like you’re 
the only one who doesn’t notice it. Perhaps you fancy yourself a master thespian when 
all your audience wants to do is crawl under their seats, or maybe you assume that a 
lifetime of playing violent roleplaying games has somehow made you a skilled martial 
artist. Choose one Ability when this Flaw is chosen - 
you believe that you have a 
proficiency of three levels or more in this Ability, but you cannot take actually any 
levels of this Ability during character creation, nor can you learn it during play until 
this Flaw is bought off. (It will take you some time to learn to walk the walk as well as 
talk the talk.) The plus side of this arrangement is that you do not need to spend a 
Willpower Trait to attempt challenges with this Ability, even though you do not have 
any levels of it, since you are so completely convinced you’re an expert in the field. 
However, your overconfidence paired with your utter lack of any real knowledge also 
means that you lose all ties involving this Ability, and with particularly important 
failures the Storyteller may require you to win or tie a Simple Test to avoid failing in 
some truly spectacular way. Naturally, until this Flaw is bought off you are quick to 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


deflect any failures or perceived lack of expertise on your part, and will come up with 
no end of excuses or rationalizations to maintain your self-deception. 
Low Self-Esteem (3 Traits) 
No matter your actual talents or strengths, you have trouble realizing your real 
worth, and tend to be down on yourself as a matter of habit. Others may try to cheer 
you up temporarily, but that can make it even worse if you realize what they’re doing, 
and you don’t even gain much satisfaction from applying yourself according to your 
true nature. Any time you would gain Willpower from a great success or acting in 
accordance with your Nature, you must make a Willpower test against five Traits - 
failure means that you do not earn the bonus after all, as a reflection of how much you 
downplay yourselfor your role in events. This penalty does not apply to Willpower you 
regain naturally by resting. 
Slow Learner (3 Trait) 
Regardless ofhow intelligent you might actually be, you have trouble getting your 
mind around new concepts as quickly as others, and can drive even patient instructors 
to distraction as you plod along. It costs an extra Experience Trait to learn a new 
Ability, and if you spend Experience to raise an Ability it does not actually increase 
until the session after next, reflecting how long it takes you to put what you’ve learned 
into practice. 
Weak-Willed (3 Trait Flaw) 
”A hero? Who, me?” When others would rise to the occasion and summon the 
grit to carry on, more often than not you have trouble getting as far as the gritty part 
to begin with. Whether due to guilt over some past failure or just a difficulty in seeing 
yourself as worthy to take big chances, you have trouble rising to meet the kinds of 
challenges the imbued are faced with daily. Add two Traits the difficulty of all 
Willpower tests, and you cannot possess a Willpower rating higher than six so long as 
you still have this Flaw. 
Amnesia (4 Traits) 
Prior to your imbuing, the past is a blank slate. You know nothing of your history, 
your family, your friends or foes. Your Storyteller makes up your character’s history, 
including the reasons for your Amnesia. The Storyteller may even keep your character 
record partially hidden, only revealing your Abilities, edges, Backgrounds, Convic- 
tion, Merits and Flaws when you try to use them (or when they come back to haunt 
you). In general, the only things obvious to you are the things you can see in the mirror. 
Depression (4 Traits) 
All hunters are threatened by feelings of depression at one time or another, but 
you’ve fallen into the trap to such a degree that at this point you think your feelings 
are perfectly natural (if not entirely deserved), and so you refuse to get help of any kind 
for your condition. This Flaw should not be confused with the derangement ofManic- 
Depression; the latter represents clinical insanity of one kind or another, while the 
former is “merely” a behavioral condition. (A character cannot possess both Traits; if 
one is acquired, the points for the other must be reassigned to other Flaws.) In any 
event, you do not regain Willpower naturally, but can only regain it by performing 
deeds in keeping with your nature or successfully completing great personal goals. 
Illiterate (4 Traits) 
You cannot read or write your native language, and while you can recognize some 
common symbols such as traffic signs or warning labels, you are a great disadvantage 
when it comes to doing research of any kind, and will have trouble getting a decent 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I 
1 
I 
1 
I 
job as well. You automatically fail all tests involving reading or writing. This Flaw does 
not affect your ability to understand the hunter code. 
aptitude Flaws 
Immature/Old Before Your Time (2 or 4 Traits) 
You might be at the prime of your life as far as most people reckon, but for some 
reason you’re far short of your true potential, either due to lingering immaturity or 
conditions similar to the onset ofold age. For two Traits, you’re considered to be young 
for the purposes of determining Attribute and Willpower maximums, regardless of 
your actual age, and must grow up some and buy off this Flaw before you can exceed 
those limits. For four Traits, you’re considered old for the purposes of determining 
Attribute maximums, though not for Willpower maximums, and with time against you 
it’s unlikely anything short of a serious miracle will ever correct the problem (i.e., buy 
off this Flaw). 
Only characters in the peak age group may take this Flaw, and the Storyteller may 
forbid it outright if she doesn’t feel it will make a substantial difference for a character. 
legal Flaws 
Political Extremist ( 1  Trait) 
You are a known member of a suspicious or feared organization such as the Klu 
Klux Klan. This naturally causes non-members to hold unpleasant views about you, 
and you are two Traits down on all Social Challenges with people who dislike the 
organization you belong to. In addition, you can expect curt treatment at best from 
local law enforcement, and while you might have no criminal record yourself, the local 
authorities will have an open file on you, regardless. You might even be targeted by 
undercover surveillance at different times if your organization begins attracting 
attention to itself, and the Storyteller may decide to restrict certain Backgrounds based 
on what people would trust you with. 
Revoked Driver’s License (1 Trait) 
Whether you lost it due to a poor record, or never bothered to get it in the first 
place, you do not have a driver’s license of any kind, and if caught driving the police 
will immediately arrest you and impound your car. Needless to say, this can be a serious 
impediment to your hunting plans, not to mention a substantial limit on your mobility 
in general. 
Sunday Driver (1 Trait) 
As much as they might love your company, your friends never want you to drive 
- 
maybe you’re fussy about obeying the speed limit and every other possible traffic 
regulation you come across, or perhaps you’re the exact opposite, and pay dangerously 
little attention to things like lane dividersor oncoming traffic. Either way, you’re down 
two Traits on all Drive tests involving high speed chases or other complicated 
maneuvers. 
Criminal Record (2 Traits) 
Rightly or wrongly, you have been convicted of several misdemeanors or perhaps 
a minor felony, and questions of rehabilitation aside this places certain legal restric- 
tions on you as well. You cannot buy firearms legally, you can be brought in for 
questioning with the slightest of evidence, and depending on your particular crime and 
the place you live you might have to report yourself to the local police, newspapers or 
both. Needless to say, this can earn a lot of ill will from those who find out about your 
i
b P 
I 
1
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
1 
1 
I 
)I 
I i 
1 
1
past, and you can expect to get nothing but grief from most police officers. You are two 
Traits down on all Social Challenges with law enforcement officials who know of your 
criminal past. 
Probation (2 Traits) 
At least it got you out of larger trouble, but making a deal for probation does have 
its bad side as well - 
you must report to your case officer on a regular basis, and submit 
to random searches of your residence or person when the court deems it necessary. Not 
only that, but you must demonstrate a commitment to becoming a model citizen as 
well: hold down a job, keep up with debt, not being seen any place suspicious, etc. 
Needless tosay, thiscanmakealotofhuntingactivitiesquitedifficulttogetaway with, 
but as the price for getting caught is most likely being tossed in jail, it’s a balancing act 
you’re going to have to become quite good at if you wish to go far. 
Illegal Immigrant (3 Traits) 
Simple enough - 
wherever you live now, you don’t belong there, at least not as 
far as the law is concerned. If you’re ever arrested, there’s a serious risk of being 
deported to your country of origin, and you cannot hold down a job unless it pays you 
under the table. The Storyteller will most likely want to restrict your Backgrounds to 
reflect the difficulties you have being a non-citizen as well. 
Wanted by Law Enforcement (3 Traits) 
Well, now you’ve done it (or maybe not, but it sure looks like you did) -you‘re 
the prime suspect in a felony crime, and the police are actively searching for you. That 
means living a fugitive’s life from night to night, as your assets are frozen, your regular 
hangouts watched closely and your known associates might be called on to provide 
your whereabouts. It is assumed in this Flaw that for one reason or another you cannot 
simply walk into the police station and clear up the matter, even if you happen to be 
innocent. Indeed, this Flaw cannot be bought off at all unless you either undergo the 
long and difficult process of clearing your name, or you somehow deflect official 
attention in a big way (flee the country, fake your own death). 
Eccnemic Flaws 
Audit (1 Trait) 
Like it or not, you’ve become the subject of an audit by your government tax 
authority, and they watch your finances carefully for strange expenses or illegal 
maneuvering. Buying exotic or illegal equipment is extremely difficult, and the agency 
may bring you in from time to time to explain where your money comes from or how 
it is spent. Add two Traits to the difficulty of all Resources-related tests, as well as any 
transactions for illegal goods that total over $500. 
Demanding Career (2 Traits) 
Whether you used to be a workaholic and now find yourself trapped by your old 
habits, or you simply practice a profession that can call on you at just about any time 
(such as a paramedic or firefighter), your job has a habit of interfering with your 
hunting activities. You must have some way for the office to contact you on your 
person at all times, and too many late arrivals or missed shifts will wind up with you 
being terminated. What’s more, whether you quit or get fired, your Resources drop at 
least one level should you leave the job for good. 
Primary Breadwinner (2 Traits) 
Your family counts on you to bring home the income it requires make ends meet, 
and you simply must have a regular job of some kind to do that, the needs of the hunt 
I 
I 
1i
1
i
I
1
I 
I
!
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
I 
1 
i 
I 
be damned. At least two levels of your Resources rating must be dedicated to supporting 
your family, and should that Background fall below that level your family will begin 
to suffer for it. If that ever becomes the case, increase the difficulty of all Willpower 
tests by one due to the shame and guilt you feel over letting your family down in such 
a fashion. 
Uninsured (2 Traits) 
You carry no insurance of any kind, either due to a lack of sufficient funds or a 
personal decision. Should you require medical attention or be involved in an accident, 
all the resulting costs must be paid out of your own pocket. Such tremendous drain is 
likely to reduce your Resources rating by at least one or two levels, perhaps even 
permanently in the case of serious or long-term expenses. 
Alimony Payments (3 Traits) 
Money you make goes right back out to your ex-spouse and your children (if any), 
and failure to keep up regular payments will result in having your assets frozen and your 
possessions seized by the authorities. You may never have more than three levels of 
Resources, no matter what your actual income might be, due to the economic hardship 
involved in meeting the payment schedule. 
Homeless (4 Traits) 
Just as it sounds, you have no permanent place to dwell, which means it’s a life 
on the streets or spent hopping from shelter to shelter for you. You cannot take the 
Resources Background at all, and cannot heal lethal damage naturally while living 
under these conditions. In addition, you must carry all of your equipment with you 
somehow, and if you do not you must hide it and make a Simple Test with the 
Storyteller-on 
a loss, your stash has been found and at least one item has been stolen. 
Sample Character Creation 
Pete decides to enter a local game of Laws of the Reckoning, and after checking 
with Alyson, the Storyteller, he decides he wishes to play one of the imbued. Pete puts 
on an inspirational CD while the two of them take acopy of the rulebook and sit down 
to create a character. 
Step One:Crncept 
The process begins by looking for a concept, a basic idea or theme Pete can build 
his character around. By way of guidance, Alyson tells him that the game is going to 
be centered around a local college, and to design characters that would fit into that 
environment. Thinking for a bit, Pete begins to get an impression of a young punk 
rocker, but rather than play him as simply another cookie-cutter rebel he decides that 
his real motivation revolves around guilt over the death of his girlfriend Christine, 
who died in acar accident while he was behind the wheel. He blames himself for it and 
has been a little overzealous in looking out for his friends since then. Before he moves 
on to choosing a creed, Pete asks Alyson if he will begin the game as a hunter, or if she 
wants to run the imbuing later on as part of the prelude. She tells him that they will 
do the imbuing during the prelude, but that right now he can still select the hunter 
characteristics that he’s most likely to wind up with. (They canalways be changed later 
if needed.) He spends a while looking over creeds, and while it’s a tough call, he 
ultimately decides to go with Martyr over Defender, as his sense ofguilt and subsequent 
lack ofrespect for his own life make him more likely to choose self-sacrifice even when 
it’s not truly necessary. He chooses Celebrant (Music) for his Demeanor - 
he often 
loses himself in his music while he’s around his friends -and Penitent for his Nature, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


! 
1 
I 
I I 
)I 
I‘ 
1 
a natural choice considering his tragic past. Looking for a name, he considers a few 
possibilities, then at last decides his character goes by his nickname of Jimmy most of 
the time. 
Step T’wr:Rttributes 
Pete now has to prioritize Jimmy’s Attribute categories, to determine his basic 
strengths and weaknesses. He takes Social as Jimmy’s primary Trait category, Physical 
as his secondary, and Mental as his tertiary. Pete explains that Jimmy was quite a 
talented performer before the accident, and still isn’t bad at all even now (Social); he’s 
still a young man, and between time spent skating and in the pit at local shows he’s 
in decent shape (Physical); but he started hanging out a little too early and never quite 
picked up all the education he should have (Mental). 
Now Pete must choose individual Traits for each category, beginning with six 
Social Traits. He picks Expressive, Witty, Charismatic, Eloquent, Gorgeous, and 
Friendly. Jimmy has a compelling stage presence, and can deliver a performance as 
precise as it is passionate. Next is Physical, with four Traits, and Pete chooses the 
following: Athletic, Wiry, Energetic, and Tough. Jimmy’s got a bit of natural athletic 
talent, as well as a lot of energy and staying power when it comes to physical activity. 
Finally comes Mental, with only three Traits to choose. Pete picks Creative, Intuitive 
and Alert -Jimmy 
hasn’t picked up as much in class as he should have, but he’s got 
an good artistic temperament, as well as a little skill at watching his back. 
Step T’hree: Idvantages 
Pete now must choose Jimmy’s five Abilities. First he reflects on Jimmy’s musical 
talent, once the focal point of his life and still an important part of it even now. To 
reflect his natural talent, he takes Expression and Performance x2, designating singing 
and playing guitar as his chosen Performance styles. A level of Streetwise is next, since 
like any good punk Jimmy’s spent quite a bit oftime hanging out in questionable places 
and playing shows in run-down halls on the wrong side of town. Last comes a level of 
Brawl, which Pete figures Jimmy probably learned in the pit and outside a few clubs. 
There are others he’d like to take, but he’ll have to come back with more points later 
on or earn them with Experience Traits during play. 
Next comes Backgrounds, where Pete has another five levels to play with. One 
level each goes into Contacts and Allies, reflecting the friends Jimmy has all over town 
and a professor who’s been trying to help him get out of his depression and put his life 
back together. Another level goes into Exposure, and when Alyson asks him how he 
earned it, Pete explains that Jimmy and his late girlfriend Christine used to run around 
at night with a group of friends looking for spooky places to sneak into. It was mostly 
harmless fun, but one night they heard some strange noises and saw a couple of bizarre 
things that Jimmy now believes might have indicated a real haunting after all. A level 
goes into Resources -Jimmy lives with his mom, but she doesn’t do much to support 
him, so he has a part-time job and an old station wagon ofhis own. His last level goes 
into Fame, which Pete justifies as Jimmy’s band’s popularity on the local scene, and 
Alyson approves these Background choices as appropriate to the character. 
Step Frur:Finishin$ T’ruches 
Pete now records Jimmy’s starting Conviction, Willpower, Virtues and edges. 
(While Jimmy has not yet undergone his imbuing, these are the Traits he will take 
when he does, so Pete records them for the sake of convenience later.) As a Martyr, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
I i 
I 
Jimmy begins with four Conviction Traits, which Pete marks down on his sheet, and 
all hunters begin with two Willpower Traits, so those are recorded as well. Now for 
Virtues, where he has three Traits to spend - 
the Martyr Virtue is Mercy, so that one 
must be equal or higher than the others. Pete assigns two Traits to Mercy and one to 
Zeal; Jimmy understands very well the pain that drives monsters to act the way that 
they do, but he also tends to make clear decisions and favor actions against the 
supernatural. For his edges, he selects both of the Gifted Martyr edges, Demand and 
Project, and finished with the Gifted Defender edge of Ward. Pete feels the Martyr 
edges reflect Jimmy’s strong personality and his heedlessness of his own safety, but that 
he also still has strong feelings about protecting his friends which makes the Defender 
edge anatural choice as well. Alyson agrees and they move on to spending Free Traits. 
First Pete has the option to choose Flaws and Negative Traits for his character, 
to help flesh Jimmy out a bit more and earn some extra positive Traits in addition to 
the five Free Traits all hunters get. None of the Negative Phvsical or Social Traits 
- 
I 
appeal to him, but Impatient stands out as a good choice - 
Jimmy is restless and doesn’t 
see much point in waiting for anything, especially since Christine died. Moving on to 
Flaws, he selects Eccentric Appearance (green spiky hair and clothing covered in pins 
and patches is easy to pick out of a crowd) and Nightmares (the car crash), both worth 
one Trait each. That gives him a total of eight Free Traits to spend to improve Jimmy’s 
other Traits. The first two go to Tenacious Physical Trait and the Observunt Mental 
Trait, boosting up some of the qualities Pete started outlining before. Another three 
Free Traits go into Abilities, purchasing a level each of Athletics, Stealth and Intuition, 
representing some of his youthful pastimes and his ability to follow his instincts a good 
amount of the time. With his last three Free Traits, he purchases the Good Right Hook 
Merit for one Trait and the Best Friend Merit for two. He explains to Alyson that the 
first came around in part because Jimmy hates guns and refuses to fight with weapons 
of any kind; the second is his friend Beth, who has been his best friend since first grade 
and who saved him from total self-destruction when Christine died. Beth won’t be 
aware of exactly what Jimmy goes through during the imbuing (that would require the 
Bystander Background), but she’ll be there for him just the same. Liking the character 
development that she’s seeing, Alyson approves the Trait expenditures and Jimmy’s 
character creation is officially finished. 
Step Five:Sparf of life 
All the game mechanics, Traits, edges and skills are now laid out. Pete has 
developed a much better conception of Jimmy than when he first started, but these are 
still some things not covered, things that can’t be captured by rules and character 
sheets; specifically, the details that make Jimmy live and breathe to the other players. 
Pete has to think about ways to convey his character’s personality to the other players, 
to create a host of little identifying quirks that come with roleplaying him. There are 
countless subtleties that can be added to make a character seem more real, and which 
make for an entertaining and memorable personality for everyone in a game to interact 
with. Finding the right balance of such elements can be a great challenge, but also one 
of the most rewarding roleplaying experiences around, and Pete looks forward to 
bringing Jimmy to life in the dark nights of the Reckoning.. .. 
i
C P 
I 
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


While most hunters cling tenaciously to their humanity in the time following 
their imbuing, desperate to believe that there is still something that fundamentally 
separates them from monsters, there's no denying that they also begin displaying 
special powers as well. These powers are called edges, for the advantage they give 
ir battles against creatures of the night, and are perh 
ation on hunter-net aside from the enemy and the He 
ke and distrust what they feel edges repr 
that proves they are like the monsters, 
powers will in some way help him d 
from it that you will. 
ew world.. . draw what conclusions 
Initial idees 
Most of the time, you will select edges during charabber creation just the same as 
you select your creed, Afcributes, Abilities and so on. Provided you can rationalize the 
eky to develop a quiet and unobtrusive edge 
you free to take the edges you feel best repr 
another path than you have in the one corresponding to your creed's primary Virtue. 
Thus, a Martyr must always have an equal or greater number of Martyrdom edges as 
he has in any other edge path. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Edge Costs 
Edge Level Virtue Trait Cost Virtue Traits Required 
Level of Power 
Touched 
One 
One 
Basic 
Gifted 
Two 
Three 
Basic 
Devoted 
Three 
Six 
Intermediate 
Inspired 
Four 
Ten 
Intermediate 
Exalted 
Five 
Special* 
Advanced 
*Only imbued with 10 Virtue Traits who accept at least three permanent derange- 
ments and other sacrifices for their creed have a chance at developing these edges. 
Indeed, the nature of the changes required are so severe that typically only Narrator 
characters will possess these edges, since a player character would be so consumed by 
his mission as to make him effectively unplayable. 
Gaining Hew Edges 
Of course, character creation isn’t the only time that players will deal with 
purchasing edges. Every time a player cashes in 10 Conviction Traits, she gains a 
Virtue Trait which can then be used to purchase edges (or saved, if the player wants 
to buy an expensive edge). The Virtue Trait cost of an edge is listed in the table. All 
hunters may learn edges of any path that they have Virtue Traits in, at no additional 
cost, provided once again that they do not acquire more edges from a path that is not 
their creed’s primary path. 
A hunter must have at least one edge of each rank before he may buy an edge of 
the next level in a path - 
thus, in order to purchase a Gifted edge, the hunter must 
have at least one Touched edge from that same path. A character could not simply 
spend two Virtue Traits to acquire a Gifted edge of a path he doesn’t have; first he must 
have at least one edge of the Touched level from that path. 
Edge Levels 
Edges are divided into five levels of potency, reflecting how far along that 
particular path a hunter has traveled: Touched, Gifted, Devoted, Inspired and 
Exalted. Likewise, they have a corresponding cost in Virtue Traits to acquire - 
a 
Touched edge costs one Virtue Trait, aGifted edge costs two, etc. For the purposes of 
power comparison, Touched and Gifted edges are considered Basic powers; Devoted 
and Inspired edges are Intermediate powers; and Exalted edges are Advanced powers. 
Triggers 
Hunters aren’t comic book characters, they’re real people - 
that is to say, even 
once they discover they have special powers, they don’t automatically trust them 
entirely, nor do they necessarily know where they came from or how to activate them 
once again. Therefore many imbued put their trust in acommonprop, phrase or action 
to help them make sure the edge activates once again - 
what’s known as a trigger. 
After all, if the first time you ever warded off a monster you did so by holding out your 
favorite necklace, would you really not have that necklace with you the next time that 
you were going to try that effect, just in case it somehow turned out to be part of how 
the power was created? Even if you knew deep down that you didn’t really need it (as 
the majority of hunters eventually realize), its presence is still reassuring, not to 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


mention how it offers a reflexive way to respond to danger rather than casting about 
trying to remember how to activate the edge. 
Triggers are therefore solely a roleplaying mechanism, but one players are highly 
encouraged to use when activating their edges - whether it’s praying loudly, 
clutching a favorite piece of jewelry or even an action like crossing yourself or spinning 
in a circle, doing so adds to the game environment as well as keeps edges from seeming 
like automatic comic-book superpowers. A character is encouraged to have one or two 
triggers for each edge, although she may certainly use the same trigger for different 
edges if she desires. 
For example, a Defender might shout loudly and/or hold his arms out to activate 
Ward, cross himself with his weapon to activate Cleave and whisper the names of his 
wife and children to use Foresee. Not only do such triggers add an interesting and 
unique roleplaying quirks to his edges, but they also help the player remember that his 
hunter is still aperson and not some superhero slinging magical powers around at will. 
Edge Names 
Along the same lines, it should be noted that the names given for different levels 
of edges are simply what’s commonly used on the hunter-net; imbued may give their 
edges personal names as suits their personality and/or how they discovered they 
possessed the edge in question. One Avenger may refer to Cleave as “the hand of God,” 
for example, or a Martyr calls Demand “the bum’s rush.” So long as the player is clear 
what his edge is and what it does, he is encouraged to be as creative as he likes with 
the names of the edges his character has. 
Edge Appearances 
While other imbued with their Conviction active and supernatural creatures can 
normally see the effects of active edges for what they really are, normal people in the 
area either miss the effect entirely or rationalize it away as something they can 
understand. A Martyr’s use of Ravage becomes a tear gas attack; a Redeemer’s 
employing Respire is just performing first aid on a wound that must not have been as 
bad as it looked, etc. The Storyteller is the exact arbiter on how normal people react 
and how much they remember, though as a general rule the less Willpower they have 
and the less interest they have in what’s going on, the less they remember about it later. 
Note that this does not mean the imbued can run around using their powers 
whenever they feel like without fear of reprisal-decapitation 
is still decapitation, no 
matter how witnesses might rationalize that the imbued did it with a flaming sword. 
That means while ordinary folk might scatter for safety, the authorities will arrive at 
any location that the imbued are seen to be fighting with others, especially if they use 
particularly vicious or unsubtle powers. Even if Cleave doesn’t leave much evidence 
behind, being seen acting like a madman and attacking an enemy with some kind of 
invisible weapon won’t help if the police find a hunter standing over the body. 
Likewise, one never knows when agents of the supernatural world may be 
watching, either - 
being observed performing “strange acts” and muttering about 
monsters in public is a quick way to get a visit from some very unwelcome entities, 
especially if they’ve been having trouble with some pesky humans who seem to know 
a bit too much.. . . Therefore, wise hunters keep their edges as secret as possible, using 
them in public only when they have no choice or they wish to try to expose a monster 
for what it is as well. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Several edges make use of physical contact - 
an Innocent giving a comforting 
hug, an Avenger using his fists, and so on. Obviously, under Mind’s Eye Theatre rules, 
actual physical contact is forbidden, so either a description is necessary (for a willing 
target) or a Physical Challenge (to make contact with an unwilling target). Unless 
otherwise specified, physical contact edges do not require skin-to-skin contact. 
Mercy 
Whereas Zeal urges followers to choose sides based on clear-cut, universal 
distinctions, adherents of Mercy tend to take an interest in individuals and specific 
circumstances. While most do not argue that codes of behavior are important, the 
Merciful also realize that sometimes in life situations develop in ways that would test 
the integrity and judgment of even the wisest and most caring of individuals - 
which 
means that people who fall short of these ideals may very easily make mistakes or break 
rules they otherwise wouldn’t. Followers of Mercy thus tend to seek out explanations 
for why a person or creature acted as he did before they make assumptions about him, 
and will do their best to make sure others bear such considerations in mind as well. 
These imbued often find that quite a few monsters exist who could possibly live in 
harmony with humanity, given the right chance, and they will fight the best they can 
to keep other hunters from interfering with creatures in the process of “reforming.” 
Of course, this tolerance should never be mistaken for allowing truly wicked or 
degenerate monsters free rein to prey on others - 
if anything, most Merciful fight 
harder than their companions in such battles, because they feel they have considered 
all factors and therefore can proceed with a clear conscience. Even then, however, 
they can’t help feeling a twinge of regret for snuffing out any possibility of redeeming 
a creature, or perhaps even because they feel (rightly or wrongly) that but for the grace 
of God, they might themselves have gone. 
If a character’s first reaction to her imbuing is to protect innocent lives, put herself 
in harm’s way or ask a monster why it’s doingwhat it’s doing, then there’s a chance that 
character may be a follower of Mercy. 
Innocence 
Across all other factors such as age, gender or occupation, one factor unites all 
members of this gentle and inquisitive creed: an ability to look on the supernatural 
with no prejudices or preconceived notions whatsoever. This often can put them in 
dangerous situations as they ask questions or approach creatures other hunters won’t 
go near (or at least won’t go near without a large weapon of some kind), but it can also 
elicit a surprisingly disarming reaction even from some ancient creatures, who have 
forgotten and may even be nostalgic for what it was like to be addressed like just 
another ordinary person. 
Innocents’ edges reflect this najve quality about them: they are well-suited to 
escaping from harm’s way, lifting morale, learning more about creatures without 
interfering with them and otherwise gaining a fresh perspective on the situation. 
Touched 
Hide 
There are perks to not standing out from the crowd, sometimes: a hunter with this 
edge can quite literally go unnoticed by nearby supernatural creatures, provided she 
doesn’t go out of her way to attract attention. She doesn’t actually become invisible 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


- 
rather, she simply seems unworthy of notice, even if they’re face to face. (The 
standard posture for invisibility in Mind’s Eye Theatre - 
crossing the arms over the 
chest - 
should be used to represent this power’s use, though take care to note that it 
is not necessarily effective against all other characters.) Actions such as walking 
casually, speaking softly or slowly opening a door do not break this power; however 
running, touching a creature, yelling or acting aggressively in any way toward a 
monster will end the edge immediately for all monsters in the area. Should the 
character fall unconscious or become Incapacitated, the edge also fails. This power 
costs nothing to activate when not in the presence of monsters; should monsters begin 
actively searching for the character (not just pass through a room or give her location 
a once-over), or should the hunter seek to “disappear” in their presence, she must 
defeat such creatures in a Mental Challenge to stay Hidden. Her Mercy Traits are added 
to her bid in this test. Note: This power doesn’t function against fellow hunters or 
normal mortals, who can perceive the hunter just fine. 
Fool’s Luck 
Other imbued often joke about how Innocents seem to have special protection 
from on high; regardless of the ultimate truth behind such remarks, hunters with this 
edge certainly do seem to be visited by veritable miracles just when things look their 
darkest. Once per session, if the Innocent’s life or capability to carry on the hunt is in 
direct, immediate danger, she may spend two Mental Traits to call upon Fool’s Luck. 
She then receives a “lucky break,” the exact nature of which is left up to the Narrator, 
but which should offer at least amoment’s respite from the danger threatening her. For 
example: A pair of police officers might finally respond to a (‘shots fired” call, forcing 
a gun-toting bloodsucker to flee the scene rather than finish her off; a locked door 
might suddenly open, giving her more running room; or she might even turn a corner 
and run into her fellow hunters just when she needs them. The only absolute rules are 
that it cannot permanently end a threat for her; it cannot aid anyone else but her; and 
it cannot provide a direct combat bonus of any kind (no fair having a piano fall on 
those pursuing goblins). Obviously, even with such restrictions, exactly how these 
narrative jumps are handled remains strictly under the Narrator’s control, and this 
power may be disallowed if players try to abuse it. In addition, Storytellers of larger 
venues where Narrators are not as accessible can opt to simply say that this edge allows 
the Innocent a Fair Escape (if possible) or a free combat turn to do anything except fight 
(if escape is impossible). 
Gifted 
Illuminate 
With this edge, a hunter can make it easier for her fellow hunters to spot any 
monsters in the area, effectively duplicating and replacing the need for them to spend 
Conviction to activate the second sight. It also reveals all creatures for what they truly 
are, even those that are normally difficult to discern such as warlocks or shapechangers 
in human form. To simulate this effect, the player must loudly announce “Illuminate!” 
-all 
players of supernatural creatures who hear this call must respond by raising one 
hand and keeping it up for five seconds. This is an out-of-game exchange, which is used 
to simulate the following in-game effects: to all hunters in the area, any Supernatural 
creatures now stand out as though surrounded by brightly colored lights. However, all 
the creatures in the area can likewise clearly perceive the hunter using Illuminate as the 
source of what is revealing them, and furthermore the hunter cannot use Hide or other 
concealment powers while Illuminate is active. Note also that Illuminate doesn’t 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


il 
I 
1 
1 
i 
i I 
provide any resistance to mind or body control, as spending Conviction does. 
Illuminate takes a turn to activate and lasts for up to 10 minutes, during which time the 
hunter can call out “Illuminate!” as often as she desires; each Conviction Trait spent 
adds another 10 minutes to this duration. She may also terminate the power at will, 
and when it ends she must loudly announce “Illuminate over!” to signal to creatures and 
fellow hunters alike that the power has ended. 
Ease 
Monsters aren’t the only dangers in the world of the imbued; all too often the 
stresses of the hunt begin to wear a fellow hunter’s concentration, or even their sanity. 
Innocents with this edge can attempt to “talk down” those imbued afflicted with 
derangements, and help quiet their demons, if only for a time. To use this edge, the 
hunter can do nothing but speak reassuringly to the subject for at least three turns/five 
minutes; at the end of this time, the Innocent makes a Social Challenge against the 
afflicted character, who resists with a 
r of Traits equal to her primary Virtue, 
plus one additional Trait for each poi 
e they have at five or higher. (Thus, 
a Martyr with eight Mercy and six Zeal 
10Traitsfor the purposesofresisting 
this edge - 
eight from his primary Virtue, plus an additional two for having a Zeal of 
six.) The target cannot relent to the use of this edge, as it is the power of the 
Storyteller’s discretion, continuous use of this edge over a long period of time may even 
help a target permanently shake off a derangement. This edge may only be used on a 
target once per session, and has no effect on anyone except fellow imbued. 
Devated 
Radiate 
With this power, the hunter begins to glow 
ith unearthly white radiance, 
impeding all attempts by monsters to attack the 
diating character. A point of 
Conviction must be spent to activate this edge, and it lasts for a number of turns equal 
to the hunter’s Mercy rating. He must also announce to all near him how he is radiating 
light, as it is clearly visible to anyone in the area. During this time, all attacks by 
supernatural creatures - 
spells, claws, guns or any other means - 
are made at a two- 
Trait penalty, and the hunter may 
Mercy rating to his Trait total for the 
purposes of resolving all ties on de 
ests. This penalty is incurred even if a 
monster does not rely on sight; the 
aura seems to confuse and disorient it, 
regardless. No monster’s mystical powers or senses can be used to negate the radiance, 
although hunter senses (even edge-assisted ones) are unaffected. The hunter may also 
include others in his protective field, provided that he spends a Physical Trait for each 
additional person and that such individuals do not stray farther than two paces from 
the hunter at any time. Radiate fails immediately if the hunter is Incapacitated or 
otherwise rendered unconscious. 
Inspire 
By reaching out to other people, the Innocent can offer them a measure of her 
own Conviction, bolstering fellow imbued and even relieving normal humans of some 
of the worst stresses of the supernatural. All that needs to be done with fellow imbued 
is touch them; for as long as the Innocent remains in contact with them, she may spend 
her own Conviction to bolster their efforts. She may activate their second sight and 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I I I 
I 
1 
I 
self-control (if they are unable to do so themselves), she may spend her Conviction so 
they can use their own edges, and she can even risk her own Conviction on a test that 
they make. This last is handled exactly as if the subject had risked his own Conviction, 
except that if it succeeds he receives the additional extra Trait of Conviction - 
the 
Innocent simply retains what she risked. Note that if the Innocent has already risked 
her own Conviction on a test in the current scene, she cannot do so for another that 
same scene; likewise, if she risks her own Conviction on another’s behalf with this 
edge, she cannot risk Conviction on one of her own tests later that scene. 
In the case of bystanders and normal humans, the Innocent can only grant them 
protection from supernatural fear, mind or emotion control and possession - 
she 
cannot grant them second sight or the ability to use edges. Attempts to use such powers 
against them simply have no effect, just the same as for hunters using Conviction 
defense, and they understand emotionally that the hunter is responsible for sparing 
them from the trauma before them. Imbued or otherwise, an Innocent can support as 
many others as she is in contact with and/or have joined hands with her, up to a 
maximum of her Mercy rating. She must spend Conviction for each individually, 
however. Any effects generated by this edge end immediately if the hunter is 
Incapacitated. 
Inspired 
Confront 
To use this edge, the hunter must spend a Conviction Trait and perform the 
seemingly suicidal act of looking a creature straight in the eye and make no move 
whatsoever to avoid its attacks. By trusting in the righteousness of her cause and the 
inherent spark ofgoodness buried in even the most depraved creatures to keep her safe 
from harm, she effectively makes it emotionally impossible for the creature to hurt her, 
such that the mere notion of attacking the hunter becomes a horrifying thought. To 
attack or otherwise directly act against the hunter, a monster must first spend a number 
of Willpower Traits equal to half the hunter’s Mercy rating (round up) to even initiate 
the attack challenge. Failure to do so means the creature is overcome with guilt and 
can only stare back shamefully at the hunter. Even if it spends the requisite Willpower, 
the monster must still succeed at the attack challenge; despite the fact that the hunter 
is unresisting, the creature’s own reluctance may sabotage its efforts. Note that each 
action requires a Willpower expenditure, including any extra attacks granted by 
supernatural speed. This edge functions against only one monster at a time, unless the 
hunter can somehow capture more creatures eye-to-eye at the same time, but lasts for 
as long as the hunter maintains eye contact (blinking is permitted). 
Bond 
Innocents are often considered the mother hens of their fellow imbued, and this 
edge is one reason why. It allows the hunter to establish a connection to a bystander 
or fellow imbued (but not a monster or normal person), which then allows him to 
“check in” on his charge from time to time, even if they are separated by great 
distances. The Innocent must know the recipient for at least a month before 
establishing a bond, and this power cannot be used on an unwilling target, or it 
automatically fails. If those conditions are met, however, the Innocent may touch the 
target and spend a variable number of Social Traits, depending on the duration he 
wishes the bond to last - 
one Trait for one session, two Traits for one week, three 
Traits for two weeks, four Traits for a month, or five Traits for one story (Storyteller’s 
discretion). Any Traits spent in this fashion cannot be regained with Willpower that 
i
b P 
f 
I 1
1I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
1 
same session; they may only recover naturally in between sessions. During the time the 
bond is active, the Innocent may take a full turn of concentration and spend a point 
ofConviction to activate the bond, thusgaininga sense of the target’sgeneral location 
(“at home,” “at work,” etc.). He may also attempt to win or tie two Simple Tests at this 
point, which if successful enables him to further learn the target’s general emotional 
state (angry, happy, fearful, etc.) and general physical condition (well, wounded, 
unconscious, etc.). To gather this information, he may use a cell phone or walkie- 
talkie, ask a Narrator to find the target, or even ask other players out-of-game the 
appropriate questions to learn what he needs to know. At the Narrator’s discretion, the 
Innocent also immediately has a strong feeling of dread any time his target suffers 
lethal damage or is in any way Incapacitated, without needing to spend Conviction. 
A hunter can have no more targets bonded to him than his Mercy total, though he can 
choose to sever a bond at any time. This bond offers no direct benefits to the target, 
though she may feel a small boost of confidence when the Innocent checks in on her. 
Exalted 
Blaze 
With this awesome power, a hunter can transform the light from one source into 
a blinding, damaging radiance for any supernatural creatures struck by its rays, 
including incorporeal creatures and even monsters that aren’t normally harmed by 
light of any kind. To activate this power, a hunter must spend two Conviction Traits 
and one Physical Trait, and there must be asuitable light source in view (though it does 
not need to be in the hunter’s possession). The amount of damage done depends on 
the strength and size of the light source transformed by this edge. Relatively minor 
light sources such as torches, lighters, flares or small flashlights inflict one level of 
lethal damage; larger lights, such as headlights, bonfires or heavy-duty flashlights 
inflict two levels of lethal damage; truly impressive sources such as searchlights or the 
sun itself inflict three levels of lethal damage. This edge does not function with 
moonlight. Monsters may use Fortitwk and similar powers against this damage. The 
maximum potential range of this power is a number of paces equal to the hunter’s 
Mercy rating, though in the case of directional lights such as flashlights the Narrator 
may rule that only two or three targets may be struck at a time, regardless of the power’s 
potential radius. Blaze is instantaneous, lasting but a brief (if shining) moment; if the 
hunter wishes to inflict more damage, she must activate this power again. 
Backlash 
Sometimes other imbued go too far in pursuit of their variouscauses, and even the 
most saintly of Innocents knows that this means on occasion they must show such 
“allies” the danger of abusing their powers in the name of any cause. To activate this 
power, the imbued must touch her target (using a Physical Challenge if the target 
resists) and then spend two ConvictionTraits. If the Innocent successfully touches her 
target, a contest of wills begins and the target cannot attempt to physically break free 
until this edge is resolved. The Innocent then makes a test of her Mercy against the 
target’s Willpower. If the target wins, the edge fails and cannot be used against that 
same target for the rest of the scene; if a tie results, the struggle lasts until the next turn. 
If the Innocent wins, she reflects the target’s own rage against back at himself - 
any 
time in the next month that the target tries to commit an act of violence, whether 
coldly premeditated or impulsively destructive, he first suffers a number of bashing 
damage levels equal to his Zeal rating. This does not apply to fighting in true self- 
defense, although actively provoking another character into attacking first just to 
i I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


claim “self-defense” will trigger this edge. An Innocent may apply this edge to a number 
of targets equal to her Mercy rating at one time (though each must be challenged 
separately), and its effects persist even if she is Incapacitated or killed during this time, 
though she may also end it prematurely if she desires. This power does not work on 
bystanders, normal people or monsters. 
Martyr dqm 
Avengers may be able to comfort themselves with the knowledge that monsters 
are inherently different from humans in ways that make it OK to fight them, but 
Martyrs have no such luck. Try though they might, members of this creed just can’t 
escape the knowledge that monsters were once human, or at least are enough of an 
approximation that they feel the same pains and emotions that humans do. Paradoxi- 
cally enough, this understanding is what fuels the Martyrs’ drive to battle the 
supernatural - 
they find it utterly intolerable that monsters can be so much like 
humanity in so many essential ways, and yet for all their powers and influence still 
choose to use what they have for selfish, wicked purposes. In the case of truly inhuman 
creatures, Martyrs despise the fact that monsters feel they can exploit humans as food 
and resources in spite of the obvious harm it does to them, both individually and as a 
species. 
Martyrdom’s edges thus focus primarily on tapping into this shared well of 
emotions and sensations, particularly pain, to strike back at the creatures and make 
them feel what their prey must feel like for once in their existence. 
Touched 
Demand 
Tapping into deep bodily reserves, the character can greatly boost his strength- 
for a price. As soon as this edge is used, the character suffers a level of bashing damage, 
which cannot be prevented in any way (though it does heal normally). For the rest of 
the round, however, he enjoys the following benefits: he adds a number of Traits equal 
to his Mercy rating to his total for resolving ties on all tests involving strength 
(including combat), and he deals an additional level of damage of the appropriate type 
in brawling or melee combat. If used outside of combat, this strength lasts for exactly 
one minute. Conviction points can be risked when this edge is used, but it cannot be 
combined with other attack- or physical-action-based edges in the same turn. 
Project 
Hunters often wear their hearts on their sleeves, but none to quite the same effect 
as those Martyrs with this edge, who seem to radiate such intensity that even the dread 
creatures of the night part ranks rather than face them. This edge is activated by 
spending a Conviction Trait and making an appropriately intimidating display; 
afterward, any supernatural creatures who desire to attack or otherwise directly 
interact with the hunter (either physically or with supernatural powers) must first win 
a Willpower Challenge against the hunter’s Social Traits. Both sides may spend 
Willpower to retest the outcome. Note that this edge’s protection does not extend to 
anyone else the Martyr is with, nor does it prevent creatures from defending 
themselves or performing more indirect actions such as following the hunter. This 
edge can only he activated once per scene, and if the hunter is Incapacitated or one 
creature successfully interferes with him in front of others, the effect is broken for all 
monsters present. Finally, humans and other hunters are not directly affected by this 
edge, although the hunter’s obvious intensity puts them two Traits down on all Social 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Challenge against the Martyr while this edge is active, unless they also share his 
particular cause. 
Gifted 
Witness 
This edge supplements the usual powers of the second sight, allowing the 
character to determine the exact nature of any creature they see, even one that is not 
normally easily identified by the sight (warlocks, shapechangers in human form, etc.). 
The monster’s most horrific aspect is written across its face for the hunter to see, 
allowing the player to (out-of-game) ask anyone she comes across “What type of 
supernatural creature are you?“ Other characters must answer honestly, though in 
return they are both permitted and encouraged to answer in terms of an image or 
impression of some kind (“My eyes are deep with centuries, and you see blood flowing 
down my chin and razor-sharp fangs in my mouth”), rather than simply putting it in 
dry clinical terms (“I’m a really old vampire”). Activating this edge takes a turn of 
concentration, and its effects last for 10 minutes plus an additional 10 minutes per 
point of Conviction the hunter wishes to spend. Note that while this power can 
effectively replace the second sight in some respects, it does not provide the protection 
against illusions or mental and emotional control that the “regular” sight does, though 
of course a hunter may activate them both if he desires. 
Revelation 
Martyrs understand the pain of hard decisions better than most of the Chosen, 
and some say this edge came about in an effort to help ease the burden they bear when 
it comes to deciding which monsters do or don’t deserve destruction. By making eye 
contact, the Martyr can effectively see a picture of a creature’s soul at the instant the 
power is used; for each Mental Trait the hunter wishes to spend, he may ask one of the 
following questions, which must be answered honestly: “What is your current 
emotional state? What are your immediate intentions (talking, fighting, running, 
etc.)? What are your objectives in the current situation? Can you offer an additional 
insight or detail into one of the answers provided before (a name, an address, a face) ?” 
Note that these questions can only concern what is in the monster’s mind at that 
specific moment, so information about its long-term objectives is usually not available 
(unless such plans happen to be directly related to matters at hand), which in turn 
means some answers might seem quite baffling in the here-and-now context that the 
hunter receives them. In addition, this glimpse is not one-way: the monster may use 
this momentary bond to spend an equal number of Mental Traits to ask the hunter 
similar questions if it chooses. This power can only be used on a creature once per 
scene, and is of no use at all against other hunters or ordinary humans. 
Though not generally an idea that occurs even to neophyte hunters, it is possible 
to read monsters in the grips of extreme emotional or mental disturbance, with 
correspondingly high risk. Immediately after spending their Mental Traits, the hunter 
must make a Willpower Challenge against six Traits; failure means instinct takes over 
and the hunter mimics the creature’s emotional or mental state, whether attacking all 
those around him, fleeing the area in terror or exhibiting some other reaction. This 
state lasts until he can win another Willpower Challenge or spends a Willpower Trait 
to reassert his self-control. 
Devoted 
Ravage 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
i i 
I 
Though its origins are still ill-understood, the Chosen know very well the terrible 
results this edge has when used, especially against all things unnatural. When 
activated, this edge creates a thick, roiling heat-haze that stuns ordinary humans and 
inflicts grievous wounds on supernatural creatures. To use this edge, the character 
must suffer a level of bashing damage (armor does not help), spend a variable number 
of Social Traits (never more than their permanent Mercy rating) and make a Social 
Challenge to hit her target. A successful attack has several different outcomes, 
depending on the nature of the target. Ordinary humans and hunters without their 
second sight active are simply overcome with horror for a number of turns equal to the 
Social Traits spent; they may flee or defend against incoming attacks, but cannot 
actively attack the hunter or anyone else. Hunters with their Conviction defense 
active are unaffected. Supernatural creatures suffer a number of lethal damage levels 
equal to the number of Social Traits spent, even if they are intangible or currently 
possessing the body of another (the host body suffers no damage from this power in this 
instance). 
Inflict 
With this simple but potent edge, the Martyr can attempt to turn an assailant 
from the path of bloodshed and violence ... or at least ensure that an offender goes 
downwith him.The huntermustspendaConviccionTrait andspend aturnactivating 
this power, typically by bracing for the worst or warning an attacker of the harm that 
will come to it if it resorts to violence. Once active, any damage inflicted on the Martyr 
by brawling or melee attacks of any kind is immediately inflicted on the attacker as 
well. Both sides apply any armor or other defenses they have against such harm 
separately - 
for example, if the hunter is hit with an attack that would inflict three 
levels of lethal damage, hut is wearing body armor that will absorb two levels of that 
attack, his attacker must still deal with the full three levels of damage on its own. This 
edge lasts for the duration of the current combat and has absolutely no effect on ranged 
attacks any kind, including mental attacks or spells hurled by distant warlocks. 
Inspired 
Donate 
At great risk to himself, the hunter can loan his own capabilities to others for a 
time, enhancing their chances to further the quest at the cost of his own. By spending 
two Conviction Traits and touching the person he wishes to bestow his qualities upon, 
the hunter may then loan any number of his Physical, Mental or Social Traits to the 
recipient. Only one Attribute category can be shared at a time, however- you cannot 
give a subject both Mental and Physical Traits - and the hunter cannot share 
Abilities, Backgrounds, Willpower or any other kinds ofTraits except Attributes. This 
donation lasts for up to one scenehour and cannot be ended by the recipient, though 
the donor may end it at will. If this loan reduces the hunter to zero Traits in one 
category, he immediately falls unconscious until the duration lapses. If the donor is 
killed, the recipient immediately loses all benefits; likewise, if the recipient is killed, 
the donor permanently loses all of the 1oanedTraits. Loaned Traits can be risked, spent 
and lost just the same as the recipient's regular ones, and the recipient should keep 
careful track of how many he loses during the edge's duration, so he can tell the donor 
which ones are returned at the power's end. Only one donation may be made at a time, 
and while his Traits are loaned out, the donor cannot spend Willpower to refresh his 
Traits in that category, though he may do so when the edge is terminated if he wishes. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


--- --I 
In addition, if the donor gives Mental Traits, the two characters also enjoy limited 
telepathic contact; if the donor gives Social Traits, the two cannot communicate 
telepathically, though they can get a vague sense of the other’s emotional state. Such 
connections are best simulated with cell phones or walkie-talkies of some kind; while 
Narrators can also be used to pass such messages, the Storyteller is well within her rights 
tonegate this aspect of this edge if it proves too troublesome or draining on the Narrators. 
Ordeal 
A power to potentially allow the ultimate sacrifice, this edge allows the Martyr 
to absorb the injuries of another, even if it kills him - 
by touching the afflicted 
character and spending two Conviction Traits, the hunter may immediately transfer 
all of the target’s damage levels to himself. This is an all-or-nothing deal- the Martyr 
cannot chose to take only one or two levels of damage, he must take it all. For each 
bashing level he absorbs in this fashion, though, he is allowed a Physical Challenge 
against seven Traits; ifhe succeeds, that level of damage is negated by the power of the 
hunter’s selfless sacrifice. Willpower can 
t to retest these challenges, and 
he has no such defense against levels of 
age. This absorbed damage takes 
effect immediately, and can easily Inc 
or even kill the hunter outright, 
though his death does not negate the tr 
ubject is still healed, the Martyr 
simply isn’t around to celebrate her recovery afterward. 
A Martyr may also attempt to take ork the mental and emotional wounds of 
others. This is handled in the same fashion, except that the hunter receives a Mental 
Challenge against seven Traits for each trauma or derangement he attempts to absorb. 
If successful, he sublimates the condition inta his unconscious and doesn’t suffer from 
Iler’s discretion. If h 
cannot be used on 
e immediately suffers 
and other imbued. 
Exalted 
Payback 
By focusing his righteous judgment 
, the hunter can strip a supernatural 
foe of one of its treasured powers or even 
impose a human limitation on it once 
more. To activate this edge, the hunter 
nd five Conviction Traits and make 
a test of his Social Traits plus his Merc 
against a difficulty of the creature’s 
Physical Traits. If successful, he may th 
ne specific supernatural power that 
he wishes to revoke - 
“I don’t want it to be able to disappear/move quickly/read 
mindsletc.” - and so long as the creature remains in his presence, it is utterly 
incapable of using the named power in any way. The character may also use this edge 
to force a supernatural creature to endure a particular human limitation once more - 
a ghost may be made physical and frail, a shapechanger may find itself confined to 
human form, and so on- 
though he cannot chose to both impose such a limitation 
and remove a supernatural power at the same time. This edge lasts until the hunter is 
knocked out, killed or willingly removes it; it is also lifted if the target manages to flee 
the area, at which time another use of Payback is required to cut it down to size once 
more. Needless to say, it is generally a good idea to have a Storyteller on hand to 
determine exactly what use of this edge covers, how it affects game play and so on - 
not only will this keep the scene running smoothly, but it will likely avoid some 
confusion and hurt feelings as well. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I I 
i 
I 
i 
I 
Expiate 
With agreat and terrible sacrifice, the Martyr may “purge” a supernatural creature 
of the taint that keeps it separated from its humanity: shapeshifters and warlocks 
become normal people, while zombies and bloodsuckers are granted their final rest at 
last. This edge reportedly has no effect on goblins or ghosts, though it is ultimately the 
Storyteller’s discretion to decide what happens in such cases, and unless he’s heard of 
this particular immunity a hunter with this edge might still try anyway. Naturally, such 
a victory over the forces of corruption does not come easily, and the Martyr himself 
is in great peril of being tainted himself regardless of this power’s success or failure. A 
Martyr must have 10 ConvictionTraits available to use this power (which also means 
no Conviction can be risked on this edge), and he must make a Physical Challenge to 
touch his intended target and hang on for three consecutive turns. During this time, 
neither side can take any other action as a contest of wills occurs - 
each turn the two 
must make a Willpower Challenge against a difficulty of five Traits. Willpower cannot 
be spent to automatically succeed on these tests, though it can be spent togain a retest. 
At the end of three turns, whoever has the most successful tests wins, with a tie going 
to the defender. If the creature wins, it may again act normally, and the hunter loses 
a Conviction Trait. If the Martyr wins, his Conviction falls to the normal starting total 
for his creed and the creature is apparently purged of all supernatural essence, as 
described above. While some elder and powerful creatures may be immune to this 
power, at the Storyteller’s discretion, it is recommended that such cases be rare in the 
extreme due to the high drama and commensurately high cost of this edge to employ. 
Indeed, many speculate that this victory is possible because the Martyr absorbs 
at least some of the tainted energy himself, which (if it does not instantly kill him) will 
still manifest as crippling pain, debilitating illness or even insanity. Every time this 
edge is used successfully, the Storyteller must make a Simple Test to determine what 
happens to the Martyr (redo all ties until a victor is determined); if he wins, the hunter 
permanently loses a Physical Trait, which cannot be bought back, and gains either a 
Decrepit Negative Trait or a derangement, as the Storyteller sees fit. Negative Traits 
and derangements incurred by this edge can never be cured, though they can be 
temporarily relieved with the appropriate treatment or edges. On a loss, however, the 
hunter dies from the energy coursing through him, living just long enough to say a final 
good-bye or have some other small dramatic moment before expiring. 
Redemption 
Unwilling to condemn all supernatural creatures outright, Redeemers work as 
hard as they can to locate those worth saving even as they join their comrades in 
battling the ones who have given themselves over to darkness. It is a difficult and 
dangerous tightrope to walk, especially given the uncertainties and misinformation 
that surround all aspects of interaction with monsters, but Redeemers hold to what 
simple truths and feelings they do have, feeling that if they save even one worthy soul 
in their careers, it is one less creature for the world to worry about. 
No small part of a Redeemer’s success can also be attributed to the edges granted 
by this path, which can help immensely at defusing conflict, healing injuries (or bruised 
egos) and plumbing the depths of a creature’s soul to search for the goodness within. 
Touched 
Bluster 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I I 
1 
5 I i 
I 
This edge turns a shouted syllable (“No!” “Stop!” and “Don’t!” are all popular) 
into a shield against all manner of harm, allowing the hunter to turn aside everything 
from a bullet to a claw to a magical bolt of lightning, provided he can clearly see the 
attack he wishes to prevent. It doesn’t matter whether the attacker is a monster, a 
fellow imbued or even just a normal person, but the attack must come from an action 
undertaken by an individual, malicious or otherwise. For example, this edge can stop 
a bullet that was accidentally fired by a child playing with a gun, but has no effect on 
a natural disaster such as an avalanche or even a naturally occurring bolt of lightning. 
It also does nothing to prevent attacks that don’t inflict damage (such as mind control) 
or on attacks that aren’t direct (such as stabbing a voodoo doll). In effect, this edge 
allows the hunter to substitute his Mental Traits for any defensive tests he has to make, 
regardless of what she would normally defend with. He adds his Mercy rating to his 
Mental Traits for the purposes of resolving ties involving this edge. This edge can 
naturally be activated as a reflexive defense - 
indeed, that’s how most imbued 
discover it in the first place -and 
can even be used to block attacks against others, 
provided the hunter can see both the attacker and the intended target. (Using this 
edge for another counts as the hunter’s action for the turn.) 
Outreach 
Most monsters give little thought to humans, but even the most outgoing and 
humane creatures can have profoundly negative reactions when they recognize that 
an imbued sees the monster for what it really is, or happens to use edges in front of it. 
This edge allows a Redeemer to allay these natural suspicions to a degree, making 
himself seem harmless and pleasant to speak with even after he reveals that he can see 
a creature’s true nature. So long as he approaches the creature unarmed and visibly 
unthreateningly, he can potentially strike up a conversation with just about any 
intelligent monster. A Social Challenge is required to use this edge, and it can only 
be used on one creature at a time, but the hunter need not actually see the monster to 
use the edge (as with an invisible ghost or the like), only be somewhere that the 
monster can see or hear him. If successful, the creature is undisturbed by any 
demonstration of edges or revelation of information that hunter might have about the 
monster itself, however personal, making it much easier to have a discussion with the 
beast about its true nature without it flying off the handle at “being discovered.” Note 
that while the creature may feel no particular inclination to harm the Redeemer, 
there’s nothing stopping it from doing so, and psychotic or bestial creatures aren’t 
deterred in the slightest from attacking if they desire. Likewise, this edge is not a form 
of mind control, and so cannot alter a creature’s goals - 
changes like that are the 
Redeemer’s job. This edge just makes it easier to start such conversations. Naturally, 
drawing a weapon, making a hostile gesture or even touching a subject without its 
permission cancels this edge instantly, and for better or worse a creature may only be 
targeted by this edge once per scene. 
Cif ted 
Insinuate 
With this edge, the hunter can ask a single monster a question - 
the actual 
question doesn’t matter, nor does it matter if the creature responds (though it must 
understand that aquestion has beenasked). What matters is that the hunter is treating 
the monster as aperson, not merely a thing. This act, fueled by the hunter’s spirit, allows 
him to confront the creature with at least a momentary vision of the humanity it has 
lost. A Social Challenge is required to activate this edge, though the hunter adds his 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
c I 
i 
I 
Mercy Traits to his rating for the purposes of resolving ties. If successful, the creature 
is confronted by a single vision related to its humanity (or lack thereof) - 
spirits 
vividly recall what life was like, shapechangers may have visions from the lives of those 
they have killed, and so on, as appropriate to the creature in question. Even less 
“monstrous” beings such as warlocks might get glimpses of possible futures where they 
have become twisted by their power, or remember a time in the past when they abused 
it. Outside of combat, the effect of this vision and the sobering, often highly sorrowful 
emotions that accompany it last for the rest of the scene, and should be roleplayed 
accordingly - 
while it may not instantly send a depraved bloodsucker scrambling for 
redemption, its power does give even the sickest creatures pause. In a combat situation, 
this edge forces the creature to spend the following turn frozen in place, lost in its 
conflicting emotions, though it may defend itself normally if necessary. This edge may 
not be used more than once per scene on a targeted creatured, unless the Storyteller 
specifically permits it (usually as the result of excellent roleplaying on the part of both 
hunter and creature). 
Insight 
An essential part of establishing a rapport with any creature is understanding 
what drives it to act the way it does, or what pieces of its former life it misses most - 
with this edge, the Redeemer can potentially gain a wealth of information about the 
state of a monster’s humanity, hopefully giving him some material to work with in 
trying to save its soul. At least a full hour must be spent observing the creature for signs 
of its past humanity, at which time the Redeemer may make a number of Mental 
Challenges equal to her Mercy rating against a difficulty of six Traits - 
for each 
successful test, the Redeemer gains one “layer” of insight into a particular facet of a 
creature’s lost humanity and its attitude about such a decline. These layers are 
cumulative - 
for example, a Redeemer who wins one challenge might see simply that 
a bloodsucker longs for a loving touch. Another successful challenge might reveal that 
it misses touch because it was a very vibrant person while alive, while yet another 
success might reveal that it especially misses the feeling of security it had in the arms 
of its former wife, etc. Needless to say, it is best to employ a Narrator to perform the 
actual information gathering from a creature, so she can ensure that the proper amount 
of information is passed to the Redeemer. This edge has no effect on normal people 
or fellow imbued, and at the Narrator’s discretion particularly ancient or depraved 
monsters might appear totally blank or even outright horrifying to this edge. A 
Redeemer can use this edge multiple times on a monster, but only once per session, and 
the Narrator may eventually rule that he has learned all he can from this edge after 
several uses - 
there isn’t much that hides from this edge. 
Devoted 
Respire 
A hunter with this edge can heal all manner of terrible wounds, though not 
without considerable cost to his energy and Conviction. All that’s required to heal is 
that the character breathe into the target’s mouth, a la mouth-to-mouth resuscitation 
(please remember the no touching rule still applies), and make a number of Physical 
Challenges equal to his Mercy rating (against a difficulty of six Traits). For each test 
he wins or ties, he may heal one health level of damage, but he must choose to either 
spend one Conviction Trait or take a one-Trait penalty on all his challenges for the 
remainder of the scene for each health level he heals. These costs can be mixed and 
matched as the healer desires -a 
character who heals four levels of damage can choose 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


to spend three Conviction and take a one-Trait penalty, spend two Conviction and 
take a two-Trait penalty, etc. The hunter cannot use this edge on himself, though it 
can be used on normal people and even monsters, if he desires. 
A hunter may also choose to drain energy from a monstrous opponent - 
to do 
so, he must win a Physical Challenge (adding his Mercy rating) against a nearby 
creature. If he succeeds, he immediately gains one Conviction Trait (up to the limit 
of his starting Conviction, as determined by creed), and the monster suffers one level 
of lethal damage. This use of the edge can only target one creature at a time, and does 
not function against humans. The hunter is also immediately visible as the source of 
the energy drain. 
Punish 
As much as some might dislike it, all Redeemers recognize that there are some 
monsters that can’t be saved, or ones that need to do penance for their sins. With this 
edge, the Redeemer can force a creature to endure a taste of the suffering and fear it 
causes whenever it tries to victimize another. To activate this edge, the Redeemer 
must touch the creature or the space a spirit occupies and make a Mental Challenge. 
If successful, this edge lasts for a number of hours equal to the hunter’s Mercy Traits, 
during which time the monster suffers waves of remorse and agony any time it wishes 
to harm or feed from a normal person (not hunters or supernatural beings). To perform 
any such actions, the creature must first make a Willpower Challenge against a 
difficulty equal to the Redeemer’s Mental Traits at the time the edge was activated. 
If the monster fails, it is overcome with sorrow and nausea at the thought of what it 
was about to do, and loses its action for the turn (though it may still defend itself 
normally). It may make repeated attempts to perform a prohibited action, but each 
additional failed attempt puts it at a one-Trait penalty on all actions for the rest of the 
scene as it is wracked with pain and guilt. A Redeemer may have a number of monsters 
under the effect of the edge equal to his Mercy rating at any one time, and its effects 
persist even if the Redeemer is killed before the duration runs out. No more than one 
attempt to use this edge on a particular creature can be made per scene, though the 
Redeemer may end its effects at any time if he desires. 
Inspired 
Becalm 
With an exertion of will, the hunter creates an area of nonviolence and 
emotional stability around himself. Within this eye of the storm, attacks or even just 
sudden movements of any kind suddenly seem much harder to perform, and darker 
emotions such as fear and anger are subdued to manageable levels. Subjects affected 
by the field do not lose their individuality or will to survive 
~ 
they just gain a sense 
of perspective, as the urgency of the events at hand drains away. To activate this edge, 
the hunter need only spend a Conviction Trait. The effect covers an area about the 
size of an average room or a number of paces equal to the hunter’s Mercy rating 
(whichever is larger), and automatically lasts for a number of minutes equal to his 
Mercy rating. While it is active, anyone who wants to make any kind of violent act 
(including pulling a trigger) or sudden movement must first defeat the hunter in a test 
of their Physical Traits versus the hunter’s Social Traits plus his Mercy rating. A test 
must be made for each such action, even ifthe attacker has already defeated the hunter 
on a previous attempt. Actions such as speaking or moving slowly are not affected, 
unless they would somehow have a violent or explosive result (such as with a 
supernatural power of some kind). Ranged attacks that initiate from outside the 
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 I I 
I 
I t 
I 
affected area against targets within it are not affected by this edge, however. This edge 
also subdues all feelings of anger or fear, including supernaturally induced instances of 
these emotions, and supernatural creatures are automatically snapped out of all frenzy 
states unless they defeat the hunter in a test of their Willpower against his Social Traits 
(again, Mercy Traits are added for resolving ties). It should be noted that this edge 
affects everyone in the area, including the hunter himself as well as normal people and 
other imbued, but fails automatically if the hunter is Incapacitated. 
Abjure 
By spending an action and a Conviction Trait, the Redeemer can appear as the 
embodiment of all lost humanity to any creatures in the area, becoming a shining 
beacon of hope for those creatures seeking their own salvation ... or a veritable 
punishment from on high to wicked and depraved monsters. All creatures that have 
wicked intentions toward humanity in general and/or wish to take hostile action 
against the Redeemer in particular are driven from his presence unless they can defeat 
him in a test of their Willpower against his Social Traits. Willpower can be spent to 
retest such challenges, but only once- 
if the creature fails that retest, it must flee from 
the Redeemer's sight and stay out of it for the rest of the scenehour (whichever comes 
first). This edge cannot be used to comer a monster, however, and any attempt to do 
so ends it immediately. Even if a creature successfully resists, the effect is not broken 
for others who failed to overcome it, and the Redeemer may act normally against those 
who resist this edge. It does fail if the hunter is Incapacitated, however, or if he shuts 
it off intentionally, and it can only be activated once per scene, regardless. To indicate 
this power's use, the Redeemer should inform others around him of his unearthly glow 
and adopt the appropriate posture: both arms held out at his sides, palms facing up 
(essentially, a modification of the Majesty gesture from Laws of the Night). Monsters 
who retain their humanity and/or seek salvation are not repelled, however, and instead 
the Redeemer is considered two Traits up on all friendly Social Challenges with them 
as they perceive him to be the embodiment of that which they wish to attain. This edge 
has absolutely no effect on normal humans or other imbued. 
Exalted 
Suspend 
One of the first things many hunters learn is that this world is but one plane of 
existence - 
and that all manner ofstrange and frequently terrifying things lurk on the 
other side of our reality. What's worse, it seems that many of the creatures have ways 
of traveling to and from these places, and use them to strike without warning or flee 
to where even the most dedicated hunter cannot find them. In retaliation, this 
spectacular edge shuts out all contact with other worlds, at least for a time, forcing 
monsters to deal with life on this plane alone (or barring nefarious entities from 
entering this realm). It also prevents all supernatural forms of scrying. All that is 
required is that the hunter spend two Conviction Traits and win a Mental Challenge 
against eight Traits - 
if successful, for the rest of the scene the material world is 
effectively sealed off as far as the hunter can physically see, severing all ties to other 
planes of existence and disrupting any powers or items that rely on such energy to 
function. (Those fluent in the other systems of the World of Darkness may substitute 
a difficulty of 10 minus the local Gauntlet rating, at the Storyteller's discretion.) Only 
conventional means may be used to escape the hunter's presence. Likewise, creatures 
cannot enter the material world from other realms in the hunter's vicinity - 
they must 
enter in an area beyond his influence and travel to him if they wish to confront him, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


and cannot so much as peek into the material world where he is standing. This edge 
persists even if the character is rendered unconscious, though he may end it earlier if 
he chooses. 
Shame 
As experienced Redeemers know, part of understanding any monster comes from 
recognizing the division it has created within its soul - 
the good and noble side it 
retains (however small) and the part that has succumbed to darkness. A Redeemer 
with this edge can exploit this dichotomy to fill wicked monsters with near-suicidal 
self-loathing, while simultaneously inspiring more humane creatures to remain on the 
path of righteousness. Two Conviction Traits are required to activate this edge, and 
the Redeemer must spend a turn expressing concern or scorn for the creatures present. 
He may then make a Social Challenge against all creatures in earshot, both benevolent 
and malign. If successful, all benevolent creatures are two Traits up on all tests for the 
duration of the edge, as the Reelma’s words fill them with confidence. By contrast, 
inhumane creatures spend their next action inflicting damage on themselves by the 
most powerful and direct means possible, even if it’s utterly self-destructive. A vampire 
might leap into a bonfire, for example, 
hapechanger might grab a silver dagger 
and plunge it into its own heart. Armo 
applies, of course, and the creature may 
attempt to use supernatural powers tod 
or mend this damage aswell, effectively 
making it a race against itself to see which side will win. What’s more, the effect 
continues for as many turns as,&e Redeemer contmues speaking, up to amaximum 
number of turns equal to the hunter’sMercy rating. To break free, a monster must make 
a Willpower Challenge against the Redeemer’s Mercy Twits; only one such attempt 
may be made at the beginning of ea 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, truly ancient or degenerate creatures might suffer a 
reduced effect or even be immune to this edge, as they are too distanced from their 
previous humanity to care one way or another about salvation. 
Normal humans and fellow imbued are coqletely immune to this power, and if 
it is used agatnst supernatural player 
, it is strongly recommended that they 
not necessarily be furced do harm the 
other creaturesdo - 
perhaps they are 
merely wracked with indecision and s 
r a turn, or suffer only a small level of 
harm as opposed to being forced to c 
st certainly self-destructive acts. This 
may seem to give an unfair advantage to supernatural plapr characters in regards to 
this edge, but weighed against the feelings of p 
&ness and out-of-game ill will 
that would almost certainly result from having an entire group of players be forced to 
kill off their own characters, it is highly recommended that the Storyteller find a 
middle ground on this power’s effects for the sake of the game as a whole. 
Imbued who hear the arguments of both sides, from the unilateral “us-against- 
them” mindset of the Zealots to the “everyone-has-some-good-in-them” response of 
the Merciful, and decide that the answer must lie in another course entirely are the 
most common adherents of Vision. Such hunters refuse to take anything for granted, 
from the most “obvious” truths recognized by the majority of their fellow imbued to 
the least little bit ofcircumstantialevidence inaparticularcase, andseekout their own 
solutions to problems and questions they face. Freedom to act of their own will is 
especially important to them, and they strongly resist all efforts to curb their freedoms 
II
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I 
1 I 
I 
1 
I 
-whether 
such attempts come from supernatural manipulation or mundane authori- 
ties or even other imbued- and can be surprisingly fierce in such situations compared 
to their usual detached demeanors. Otherwise, however, most students of Vision pride 
themselves on not flying off the handle, not “just following orders” and not letting 
their emotions cloud their judgment when it comes the hunt. 
This doesn’t mean they are dispassionate people -far from it. When it comes to 
theory and speculation, most become extremely animated, and are especially passion- 
ate when it comes to promoting and defending their own particular views on the 
supernatural. Should a monster come looking to hurt them or those they care about, 
they’re as stout as any other imbued, especially since most of them put stock in 
planning ahead (including creating traps and strongholds). They simply try not to let 
the assumptions of others get in the way of asking the right questions, no matter what 
the situation. 
It is interesting to note that imbued of this Virtue are considerably less common 
than their Merciful or Zealous counterparts. Those few hunters who have made this 
observation typically suppose it’s because of the highly unorthodox way that followers 
of Vision respond to the imbuing compared to their fellow hunters, but the truth 
contains more than that. In truth, Vision has two other creeds attached to it, the so- 
called “lost creeds” known as Waywards and Hermits; at present these damaged 
imbued are too rare to identifi as the groups they are, but it remains to be seen what 
will happen when the fact of their existence becomes common knowledge, not to 
mention what such a discovery will do to those adherents of Vision who are not like 
their unstable comrades. (The edge paths for these lost creeds are included at the end 
of this chapter, as they are restricted to members of those creeds alone.) 
If your character doesn’t react in an obvious way to her imbuing- doesn’t attack, 
doesn’t intervene, doesn’t run, but still does something - 
chances are you may have 
a natural disciple of Vision on your hands. 
’Cisienary 
While other imbued worry about day-to-day details following their awakening, 
Visionaries typically respond with a deep curiosity about this neoteric level of 
existence they were unaware of before. While not blind to its many dangers, they are 
willing to risk agreat deal to learn all that they can about the Heralds, monsters, edges, 
the nature of the imbuing and other aspects of their new lives. After all, if such a 
seemingly timeless and obvious piece of conventional wisdom as “Monsters aren’t 
real” can be proven false, just imagine what else is out there waiting to be discovered! 
As might be expected, Visionary edges nearly all center around enhancing their 
talent for gathering information, though some Visionaries develop a surprising 
number of powers centered around bolstering the morale of their fellow imbued, 
especially those who agree with a particular Visionary’s ideas about the hunt. 
Touched 
Foresee 
Though the exact source of its power remains mysterious, a hunter with this edge 
often finds that she receives brief visions of events yet to come. These images can help 
her choose the best path when many possible choices loom before her, or even offer 
a second chance at what would ordinarily been a failed effort. At the beginning of each 
session, the player may make a number of challenges equal to her Vision rating with 
the Storyteller; for each test she wins or ties, she may receive one free retest on any 
i
b P 
I‘ 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


challenge that session (the result of this retest must stand). No more than one retest 
from this edge can be used on a single challenge or situation, and all unused retests are 
lost at the end of the session- they cannot be “saved up.” Alternately, the hunter may 
spend one of these retests to get a second chance when faced with multiple choices to 
make in a situation, provided such choices involve only the hunter herself (at least in 
an immediate sense) and are fairly simple and direct. For example, if the hunter is 
trying to disarm a bomb and has to pick one of three wires to cut, she could spend a 
retest to “undo” the action and choose a different wire if her first pick turns out to be 
wrong. Likewise, ifconfronted with asituation where she must answer a riddle, she may 
use a retest to get one additional guess. However, she could not open a door, look 
around inside and then use a retest to “take back” entering the room if a monster 
jumped out at her, nor can she use these retests for another character in any way. If in 
doubt, consult a Storyteller as to what can or cannot be taken back, and remember that 
Storytellers are fully within their rights to waive this feature of the edge if it is being 
abused. 
Focus 
Keeping focused on the larger plan behind the hunt is an exhausting process, but 
a Visionary with this edge has a unique gift for keeping her allies on target even in the 
face of great hardship. When an ally’s Conviction Traits fall below the starting total 
for his creed, the Visionary may attempt to inspire him with a conversation about their 
collective place in the grand scheme of things and his need to keep up his fervor for 
the hunt. This requires at least a minute of uninterrupted conversation, preferably 
more, during which time the outside world seems to fade away and neither the 
Visionary nor her target can do anything else. At the end of this time, the Visionary 
may make a Social Challenge against the target (the target cannot relent). Success 
means that his ConvictionTraits return to the starting level for his creed. Attempting 
to use this edge in combat, in an especially noisy place, or on a target who is an 
opponent of the Visionary’s big plan puts the Visionary down two Traits on the test, 
cumulatively. Conversely, she is two Traits up to help another imbued who is a 
dedicated supporter of her grand idea. Focus may only be used on a target once per 
session, and the Visionary cannot use this edge on herself. This edge is a time for 
examining a hunter’s role in the world and a renewing ofhis commitment to the hunt, 
and so should always be a memorable roleplaying experience; Visionaries who 
routinely eschew deep conversation and attempt to use this edge merely as a 
Conviction “filling station” for their fellow imbued may find this edge fails them until 
the Heralds see they are more passionately upholding their duties. 
Gifted 
Pinpoint 
This edge reveals a single weakness of a creature that the hunter is looking at, 
provided she defeats the creature in a Mental Challenge (Vision Traits are added to her 
total for the purposes of resolving ties). If successful, she receives a brief flash of a 
specific vulnerability the monster possesses: fire, running water, cold iron, a depen- 
dence on a particular place or object, etc. In the case of the beast having a lair or being 
tied to an object, the hunter may attempt to win an additional test - 
if successful, she 
receives a vague impression of where it is located. Because of the sensitive nature of 
the information revealed with this edge, it is generally best to have a Narrator perform 
the test with the creature, so that he can judge an appropriate vulnerability to relate 
to the hunter. Note that while they are always useful (eventually), some weaknesses 
1. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
are not always as straightforward as the hunter might hope, especially in the case of 
particularly powerful or well-shielded creatures; after all, it’s the not the Heralds’ fault 
if the hunter doesn’t know what “time” or “control” has to do with fighting the beast. 
This edge can only be used on a particular creature once per scene, never repeats the 
same information twice and has absolutely no effect on mortals or other hunters. 
Summon 
All imbued recognize the symbol for “summoning,” which is routinely used to 
mark gathering places for fellow hunters; however, when a Visionary uses this edge, 
that symbol becomes a positive homing beacon for the Chosen, leading them to the 
spot of her choosing. A turn is required to inscribe the symbol (it must be at least two 
feet square and on some durable surface such as a wall or vehicle), and the player must 
make a Mental Challenge (Vision counts) against a difficulty of eight Traits. If 
successful, all hunters within the character’s Vision rating in miles hear the call for as 
many hours as the Visionary has Vision Traits - 
other hunters do not have to come, 
but answering the call feels natural and right to them, and those who follow it find 
themselves instinctively led by the quickest route to the place where the symbol was 
inscribed. It’s as if an inexplicable wind is leading them in the right direction, even 
indoors, and they may observe phenomena such as papers or loose debris being blown 
along the path they should follow. A Narrator should be employed to inform all 
imbued in the area of the nature of the call, and needless to say the Storyteller may take 
advantage of its use to introduce other Narrator character imbued as they arrive. A 
Visionary has no idea if her call has been heard by any other hunters, nor if it has been 
heeded, so relying on it to send a rescue party every time the Visionary gets in trouble 
is a risky proposition at best, especially if she constantly sends up such “flares” looking 
for help. The Visionary may end the call at any time, and need not remain in the 
location where it was inscribed (though most do); likewise, it is ended automatically 
if she is Incapacitated, or the mark itself is destroyed or significantly defaced. This edge 
can only be used once per session. 
Devoted 
Delve 
A hunter with this edge can put herself into a light trance, whereupon she begins 
receiving images of past events that happened in her current location. Five minutes 
of meditation - 
usually a good time to send for the Storyteller - 
and a Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty of six Traits are required to enter the trance. (This 
meditation time can be cut to one minute with the expenditure of a Willpower Trait.) 
If successful, the hunter may see up to five minutes of history per Vision Trait she 
possesses. There is no limit to how far back the hunter can look, although events of 
over a year ago increase the difficulty by two Traits and events of over five years ago 
increase the difficulty by two Traits more. These visions are also silent, unless the 
hunter spends two Conviction Traits or increases the difficulty by two Traits, at which 
time she can also listen to the past. (Only hunters with Visionary as their primary path 
can use this edge to “hear” the past in this manner.) It should be noted that the hunter 
need not simply pick a time and hope she sees something; she can also command 
visions according to time (“What happened here two days ago?“), by connection to a 
person or object (“Show me what happened when the child was kidnapped”) or in 
connection to an event (“I want to see the battle as it occurred”). Naturally, the 
Storyteller should be on hand to handle the visions generated by this edge, and 
ultimately it is the Storyteller’s discretion as to what it does or does not reveal, as 
i
I
b P 
I 
1
1
i I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


especially emotional or traumatic events may cloud or distort images that the hunter 
receives. This edge can only be used once per scene. 
Rally 
By making a speech to her team and explaining the importance of what they are 
about to do in the greater scheme of things, the Visionary is able to lend her fellow 
imbued some of her own passion for the cause. At least five minutes or three combat 
turns must be spent giving this speech, uninterrupted, and the subject(s) must be 
within earshot and paying attention (or exhorted to do so) if he wishes to gain any 
benefit. At the end of this time, the Visionary gains a number of extra Conviction 
Traits equal to her Vision rating, which can then be distributed to her comrades as she 
sees fit - 
usually an equal split, though she does not need to do so. The Visionary 
herself cannot gain any of these Traits, nor can they be given to any fellow imbued who 
are opponentsofthe Visionary’s big idea (be honest). These bonusTraits are otherwise 
treated in all respects as a subject’s regular Conviction Traits for the purposes of using 
edges, activating Conviction defense and so on, except that they cannot be “cashed 
in” to gain an additional Virtue Trait, and they cannot take a subject over 10 
Conviction Traits at any time - 
all excess Traits are lost. Conviction may be risked 
on this edge, as a one-for-one addition to the Traits the Visionary is able to distribute 
to her team - 
this risk is considered a success if the team achieves what they set out 
to accomplish. If the bonus Conviction Traits are not used by the end of the current 
scene (or the next scene, if the speech is given before the team moves out), they vanish 
as the power ofthe Visionary’s words begins to fade. All Conviction Traits gained from 
this edge remain for the full duration, even if the Visionary is Incapacitated or killed 
later on. Likewise, she cannot remove bonus Conviction Traits from a subject once 
they are assigned. 
Inspired 
Restore 
This amazing edge gives the imbued truly miraculous powers of regeneration, 
enabling her to bring herself or others back from the brink of death, speed the recovery 
from grievous wounds and even regrow missing limbs and organs. All that is required 
is that the hunter spend three Conviction Traits and make a Physical Challenge 
(Vision Traits count for resolving ties) against a difficulty of four Traits plus one for 
each lethal level of damage the subject has suffered. If successful, all levels of damage 
are immediately converted to bashing damage, making for a much faster recovery time. 
If some or all of those damage levels represented missing limbs or organs, they are 
instantly regrown, though they remain sensitive and weak until the healing process 
has run its course (i.e., the character gets them back, but must still wait until the 
damage has healed before he is fully functional again). Additionally, subjects treated 
with this edge are immediately cured of any mundane illnesses related to their injuries 
and need not fear infection as they recover, though supernatural infections are a 
different story. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this edge may also cure long-term 
illnesses such as cancer, though he should feel free to adjust the healing times and/or 
Conviction costs for such tremendous feats of healing as he sees fit. This edge cannot 
revive the dead - 
a subject must still be living, however tenuously, for this edge to be 
of any use. It may only be used once per scene. 
Unify 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
All Visionaries are disturbed by the signs of unrest they see developing between 
the various other creeds, and this edge is a direct result of their research into trying to 
set this right. By pacing the area she wishes to affect for at least half an hour, pondering 
the ramifications of her actions and the actions of fellow imbued she knows, trying to 
figure out how they will act (or how she wants them to act), the Visionary may then 
scribe a symbol for “unity” somewhere in the area. While in the vicinity of this symbol 
(generally an area of an average room or small clearing), other imbued enjoy 
significant benefits and use their edges more easily thannormal, though these blessings 
are immediately lost if one hunter ever deliberately harms another or the symbol is 
somehow destroyed. This edge requires a Conviction Trait and a Mental Challenge 
against a difficulty of six Traits, in addition to the time requirements detailed earlier. 
If successful, while in the radius of effect, all hunters are considered to have their 
Conviction defense activate for free - 
that is, the sight and its protection against 
mind- and body-control is automatically active, at no cost to them. Leaving the area 
renders them vulnerable, though they can re-enter it at any time to receive the benefit 
again. Furthermore, imbued are considered one Trait up on all tests to activate or use 
their edges while near the symbol. This edge lasts for one scene, even if the Visionary 
is killed. If she survives she can “re-activate” the symbol later on with another test and 
Conviction expenditure if she desires. While it is active, hunters perceive the area to 
be the center of a vortex of whirling winds, though monsters and normal humans see 
nothing about the winds, if they perceive them at all. 
Exalted 
Augur 
Imbued with this edge can turn their senses to the future, receiving visions of 
things to come. This edge requires three ConvictionTraits, five minutes of meditation 
and a Mental Challenge to activate, and as with Delve the visions generated by this 
edge can be based on a time frame, a person, an object or a specific event, though they 
become increasingly indistinct the farther in the future the hunter goes. If the test is 
successful, the hunter receives a vision of the future she requested for up to a number 
of minutes equal to her Vision rating, although unlike the Delve edge, these visions 
cannot generate sound. As with all precognitive efforts, the Storyteller must be 
contacted to describe the vision to the hunter, and the player should understand that 
while the Storyteller will do his best to give visions based on his knowledge of 
upcoming events in the chronicle, all glimpses of the future are still only possible 
futures. As hunters well know, humans and monsters alike are remarkably unpredict- 
able beings, and the determination of even one individual to make a difference can 
change the world in unexpected ways. Note that unless a vision is specifically 
impossible, such as a hunter asking to see the next time his friend stops by his house 
when unbeknownst to him that friend has already been killed by monsters, a vision is 
always received when this edge is used, whether the hunter wins the test or not - 
those 
with this power quickly learn to beware the harm that false visions can do to them. The 
Storyteller is thereby encouraged to make the test in secret, so that the hunter is unsure 
of whether the vision they are seeing is a legitimate one or not. (If Conviction Traits 
need to be awarded for a successful test, they can be awarded later on the sly, so that 
the hunter isn’t immediately sure ofwhether he succeeded or not.) This edge may only 
be used once per scene, if that often, and attempting to use it more frequently merely 
provokes splitting headaches. 
Determine 
i
I
b P 
I 
I 1
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
-a- 
As with Foresee, a Visionary with this edge has learned to glimpse the future, but 
while that edge deals with a broader range of experiences, this power allows the 
Visionary to focus on one specific creature and subtly influence the outcome of the 
actions it takes. It’s not that hunter gets to decide everything the monster does - 
it’s 
more like she gets a glimpse into several different possible results from the creature’s 
actions, and chooses the one she wants to occur. This may not always be something 
the hunter is happy with, but ingeneral it is definitely better than just sitting back and 
watching the creature from the sidelines. Two Conviction Traits are required to use 
this edge, and a Visionary must be able to see the creature she wishes to influence and 
defeat it in a Social Challenge - 
if successful, she may immediately make a number 
of Simple Tests equal to her Vision rating. Each test she wins or ties equals one 
opportunity to control the creature’s destiny. Conviction risked on this edge simply 
equates to an extra opportunity per Conviction Trait risked. Influencing a monster’s 
fate is handled in the following fashion: any time she likes, the Visionary can spend 
one of her opportunities to force the monster to re-do any test it has just performed, 
including all overbids and Ability retests if possible. Once it is finished, the Visionary 
may then decide which test’s results she wishes to keep, the original or the do-over, but 
she must pick one of them - 
if the monster successfully hits her friend on both 
different attempts, there’s nothing more the Visionary can do but pick one of them to 
have stand. Once she has decided, the result she picks becomes reality and the other 
is treated as having never occurred because, indeed, it didn’t. No more than one retest 
can be forced on any single test with this power. Only one creature can be affected per 
session, and this edge can only be used on simple actions that are decided by a single 
challenge - 
more complicated or extended actions are beyond her grasp to influence 
as a whole, though she may try to influence individual actions that are part of such 
processes. The Visionary is not clearly identifiable as the source of a creature’s ill 
fortune, and cannot use this edge on normal humans or fellow imbued. 
Zeal 
Let students of the other Virtues worry about the hidden motives of their new 
lives or whether or not a monster came from a broken home; followers of Zeal know 
that in the end everything still boils down to one thing: Are you capable of doing 
whatever it takes to defend your ideals? Hunters who follow this Virtue tend to have 
direct and decisive responses to the supernatural (“destroy it” is the most common, 
though not the only one), and they don’t recognize gray areas between what they 
consider right and wrong, especially in the field. Despite what other imbued may 
believe, Zealots are not necessarily stupid or narrow-minded. They are simply decisive, 
and for every headstrong warrior who charges in with guns blazing there are several 
behind the scenes carefully planning their ultimate strike against the enemy. 
If your character’s first response to the supernatural is to take direct action of some 
kind, without stopping to wonder about the who or why of the situation, it’s likely that 
you have a Zealot on your hands. 
Qefense 
Defenders walk a fine path between the Zealous ideal of direct, decisive action 
against the enemy and wanting to guard the people and places they hold dear. Most 
eventually compromise by becoming master planners and tacticians, channeling their 
need for action into their efforts to fortify and protect what they consider theirs to 
defend. In battle they are as fearless and uncompromising as their Vengeful brethren, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


but also know the value ofastrategicretreat, and willnot lay down their lives for efforts 
they’re unsure of, especially if doing so means their charges will go unprotected. 
Defender edges reflect this balance between security and offensive potential, as 
well as offer a means for Defenders to stay on their feet and alert during their long 
lonely watches every night. 
T’ruched 
Ward 
A hunter with this edge can hold monsters at bay, as though generating some kind 
of impassable shield. This barrier can be activated once per scene as a reflexive action, 
at which time any monsters who wish to come closer than the hunter’s Zeal Traits in 
paces must first defeat him in a Willpower Challenge (his ZealTraits are added for the 
purposes of resolving ties). In the case of multiple monsters, the highest Willpower in 
the group is used, plus one Trait is added per monster. Likewise, any monsters who are 
within this edge’s radius when it is activated must defeat the hunter in a similar test 
or do nothing but stagger backward until they have passed the edge of the barrier, at 
which time they can act normally once more. Each creature can attempt to break the 
shield once; after that, eachsubsequent attempt costs a Willpower Trait. This edge has 
no effect on normal humans or other imbued, and so hunters often use it to shelter such 
individuals inside its radius. The imbued need not concentrate to maintain the barrier 
-he can fight orperformother actions normally. However, it doesnot protect against 
ranged attacks from outside the radius of effect, and if the user is Incapacitated the 
shield falls automatically. In addition, while the hunter can adjust the size of the 
barrier at will, if he ever deliberately attempts to use it to comer a creature, the shield 
automatically fails - 
it is intended as a defensive measure, not a means of pinning 
down opponents. 
Alarm 
A Defender with this invaluable edge can create a warded area, allowing him to 
detect when any supernatural creatures cross the boundary he establishes. He must 
walk the perimeter he wishes to affect and make a Mental Challenge (Zeal counts 
toward resolving ties) against a difficulty of eight Traits; generally speaking, the area 
warded can be no larger than an average suburban house and yard, though the 
Storyteller is free to adjust this size for the sake of game balance. (As a rule of thumb, 
warding the entire playing area is a big pain in the neck for Narrators and players alike, 
especially in larger games, so it’s recommended that this be disallowed unless dramatic 
reasons exist to do so.) This ward lasts for three hours, though this can be extended an 
additional three hours for each Conviction Trait the hunter wishes to spend. 
Once established, the character is automatically alerted whenever supernatural 
creatures or their puppets cross the perimeter; in smaller or more tightly controlled 
games, a Narrator can usually be assigned to keep the hunter updated with such 
comings and goings. In larger games, it recommended that this power be limited to use 
on doorways or other obvious entrances only. The hunter can then post brightly 
colored out-of-game signs informing players of supernatural characters that they must 
announce themselves loudly out of game, knock in a particular fashion or otherwise 
make it as obvious as possible when they cross the perimeter. When activated, the 
hunter receives an impression of the general direction of the intrusion, as well as a 
rough estimate of how many creatures crossed (one, two, several, many). A Defender 
must remain within the perimeter the entire time, or it immediately fails, and he may 
only establish one warded area at a time; however, it persists even if he is Incapacitated. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Note that this edge does not detect any monsters already in the perimeter when it is 
established, nor does it detect where creatures go once inside the warded area. 
Gifted 
Rejuvenate 
Imbued with this edge heal damage with amazing speed, and more miraculously, 
they can lend their healing talents to others with proper time and care. All bashing 
damage automatically heals at a rate of one level every 10 minutes, while lethal damage 
heals according to the following chart. This healing is automatic, and costs no 
Conviction to activate (nor can Conviction be risked to heal faster). To heal another, 
the hunter must place his hands on the subject and spend Conviction to heal the 
subject’s most severe wound (her “lowest” lost level) - 
one Conviction Trait for a 
bashing level, two ConvictionTraits for a lethal level. That health level is then healed 
according the normal amount of time it would take a hunter with this edge to heal it 
- 
10 minutes for a bashing level, for example, or an hour for a Bruised level of lethal 
damage. This edge can be used multiple times on a single target to speed her healing, 
but the hunter must wait for each health level to mend before applying this edge again 
- 
in other words, he must be at the patient’s side fairly constantly. This edge cannot 
bring the dead back to life, though it will automatically stabilize a Mortally Wounded 
character (indeed, many hunters with this edge have survived because their foes 
assumed their wounds would finish them off). It has no effect on poisons that do not 
inflict health levels of damage, such as alcohol. Likewise, it does not regrow lost limbs 
or cure long-term illnesses such as cancer. 
Lethal Damage Recovery Times 
Level Being Healed 
Time Required* 
Bruised 
One hour 
Wounded 
One day 
Incapacitated 
One week 
Mortally Wounded 
One month 
*Remember that like normal healing, these times are still cumulative - 
that 
is, a character who has been Mortally Wounded takes a total of one month, 
one week, three days and three hours to be fully recovered, since he must heal 
each level of damage individually as he progresses back to normal. 
Lock 
With this edge, a Defender can seal an object - 
a door, a car, a window, a book 
or even a computer hard-drive - 
against supernatural passage, intrusion or observa- 
tion. A touch and a Mental Challenge (adding Zeal Traits) against a difficulty of nine 
Traits is required to activate this power; if successful, the hunter may seal an object for 
one day, plus an extra day per Mental Trait spent. In addition, a card signifying this 
edge’s use and describing its effects should be attached to the item in question. Any 
would-be supernatural intruder must first win an appropriate test (e.g., Physical to 
force a door, Mental to see through a window or unlock a computer) against the 
Defender’s total Mental Traits plus Zeal Traits at the time the lock was created. Failure 
means the monster simply cannot enter or access the object in question - 
an open 
doorway seems to have an invisible wall in the way, a window appears completely 
1
1
I
1
I 
1 
I
1 
I 
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


black, a computer shows nothing but a blue screen, etc. Normal humans and other 
imbued are unaffected by this power, though puppets and possessed individuals are 
blocked by it normally. Even destroying the object will not allow a creature access. 
Only one object at a time may be sealed with this edge; furthermore, while the 
Defender can end this edge with a moment’s thought, the seal persists even if the 
hunter is Incapacitated before the duration runs out. 
Devoted 
Brand 
When this edge is activated, the hunter’s hands become surrounded by a nimbus 
of energy, allowing them to mark a supernatural creature with a palm-sized version of 
one of the symbols of the hunter code (“Monster” and “Corruption” are favorites, 
though by no means the only ones). This is no mere tattoo, however - 
the brand 
smolders through any regular clothing that covers it in seconds, and while sturdier 
coverings such as armor aren’t burned through, they may quickly become so hot the 
wearer must remove them or suffer damage. This symbol is visible to anyone, even 
normal humans or hunters whose second sight isn’t active, and persists even if the 
creature becomes insubstantial, invisible or somehow changes shape. 
To activate this power, the hunter must first touch the target (using a Physical 
Challenge if the target resists), and then make a number of tests equal to his Zeal rating. 
This touch cannot also be used to inflict damage - 
a punch or choke is inadequate 
to leave the mark. The number of Zeal tests he wins or ties determines the duration of 
the mark: one or two successful tests leaves a mark that lasts for one day; three to four 
leave a mark for a week; five to six create a mark for a month; seven or eight tests leave 
a mark for a year; and nine or more create a permanent mark. If no tests are won, the 
mark simply doesn’t take, though the hunter may attempt to use the edge again if he 
desires. The target also suffers one level of lethal damage for every two successful tests 
used to deliver the mark, and cannot heal the last level of damage from this edge until 
the mark has faded. A mark may be removed prematurely, but only by the hunter who 
placed it. Due to the damage it causes, this edge is usually used to mark apast opponent 
as awarning to other imbued, or to alienate acreature from its peers, although in drastic 
circumstances it has also been used to mark a friendly creature so other hunters will 
leave it be. For the duration of the mark, the target player should draw the symbol 
prominently on his skin, attach a large description card or otherwise represent it as 
visibly as possible. 
Guard 
With this edge, the Defender can watch over a single subject from a distance, 
becoming instantly aware the moment any Supernatural forces are directed at the 
subject of his supervision. To activate this edge, the hunter must touch the target and 
make aMental Challenge (adding ZealTraits) against a difficulty equal to the amount 
of time he wishes the edge to last: six Traits for an hour, eight Traits for a session, 10 
Traits for a week, or 12 Traits for a month. If successful, the hunter instantly knows 
when the subject is targeted by any Supernatural powers or likewise in any way directly 
threatened by supernatural creatures, as well as the subject’s general distance and 
direction. Note that this edge does not discriminate between benevolent or malignant 
uses of supernatural powers - 
for example, a creature using Supernatural healing to 
help the subject will set this edge off just the same as a monster using mind control or 
other supernatural attacks. Nor does the subject have to be the specific target of a 
supernatural threat - 
as soon as she wanders into a supernatural “danger zone,” this 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
4-4- 
edge alerts the Defender. So if she decides to stop by the bank right as a group of 
shapechangers are planning to kill everyone inside, this edge warns the Defender. This 
edge does not activate if the subject is threatened by normal humans, even those 
working for a Supernatural agent, though puppets and other humans with supernatural 
powers set this edge off. ANarrator is usually employed to alert the Defender when his 
charge is in danger, though out-of-game cell phone calls or other means are also 
acceptable. 
inspired 
Champion 
Bringing the enemy to you is always a daunting proposition, especially with the 
tall odds that most imbued face every night, but sometimes it’s the only way to save 
someone the hunter values.. . or draw a monster into a trap. Only a monsters that has 
a continuous and direct line of sight to the imbued can be affected by this edge, and 
the hunter must spend aConvictionTrait and best it in a Social Challenge (ZealTraits 
count) against its Mental Traits. If successful, the creature focuses on the hunter alone, 
disregarding all other possible targets and even its better judgment in doing so. For 
each extra Conviction Trait the hunter wishes to spend, he may attempt to affect an 
additional two monsters with this edge. However, even if one creature manages to 
resist this edge, it does not disrupt the effect this edge has on any of its companions. 
Protect 
Even the most dedicated hunters can succumb quickly to the terrible attacks of 
their supernatural foes, but not so a Defender with this edge. By spending aConviction 
Trait, which can be done reflexively in response to an attack, the imbued immediately 
gains a number of special Protect Traits equal to his Zeal rating. These Traits are added 
to the Defender’s Physical Traits on all tests to resist or endure Supernatural attacks 
against the hunter’s body (mind or emotional attacks are not affected). Thus, this 
power defends against a bloodsucker’s claws and fangs, as those are supernatural 
attacks, but not against a punch from a normal human or even a bullet fired by that 
same bloodsucker, unless the bullet is somehow magical in nature. Furthermore, the 
Defender may spend these Protect Traits to gain the following benefits: for one Protect 
Trait, the hunter may gain a retest on any test to defend against a supernatural physical 
attack, or shrug off two levels of bashing damage delivered by a supernatural attack. 
For two Protect Traits, the hunter may turn aside a level of lethal damage from a 
supernatural attack, or force a monster to accept the results of one retest against such 
an attack (block any further retests). No more than one retest may be gained on any 
one test in this fashion, although there is no limit to how many Traits may be spent 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
I 
f 
I 
at once to reduce damage delivered by supernatural means. Protect Traits spent for 
these benefits are gone for the rest of the scene and are no longer added to the 
Defender’s Physical Traits for the purposes of defending against supernatural attack. 
This edge can only be activated once per scene, and any unused Protect Traits vanish 
at the end of the scene. 
Exalted 
Bum 
When this mighty edge is activated, the hunter seems to glow withroiling energy, 
and any who touch (or are touched by) the imbued suffer searing bums and pains. Two 
Conviction Traits are required to activate this edge, and it lasts for a number of turns 
equal to half his Zeal rating (round up). During that time, all damage he deals in 
unarmed combat becomes lethal damage, and anyone who attempts an unarmed strike 
or grapple against him must win a Simple Test or immediately suffer a level of lethal 
damage. Grappling opponents must make a test every round or continue suffering 
damage, as the hunter literally burns through their grasp. He may also choose to add 
an additional level of lethal damage to any unarmed attack during this time, although 
each such use reduces the overall duration of the power by one turn, and no more than 
two levels of damage can be added to any one attack in this manner. This edge does 
not damage inanimate objects such as clothes or weapons, but hurts any animate 
creature he comes in contact with, including normal humans or any disembodied 
spirits he passes through. It also does not discriminate against friend or foe while it is 
active - 
a fellow imbued who tries to tackle the hunter while this edge is active must 
test or suffer bum damage, for example, even if his reason for doing so was totally 
benign. The hunter may also deactivate this edge at any time, though not in reflex to 
being struck (such as in the example above). 
Blast 
With this fearsome power, the Defender essentially becomes a walking electrified 
fence, keeping enemies at bay with a ring of highly charged miniature lightning bolts. 
The imbued must spend two Conviction Traits to activate this edge, whereupon the 
barrier instantly expands outward a number of paces equal to his Zeal rating (this 
distance can be reduced if the hunter desires, but once set the barrier cannot be 
changed). Any supernatural creatures caught in the path of the field as it expands or 
that try to cross it once it is established immediately suffer four levels of lethal damage. 
Conventional armor does not protect against this damage, though monsters may use 
supernatural powers to reduce or deflect the damage if possible. Creatures inside the 
radius of the shield when it is created or who manage to enter it after it is up do not 
suffer further damage while inside its radius of effect. This edge has no effect on other 
imbued or normal humans (who perceive nothing out of the ordinary), and they may 
take shelter alongside the Defender inside the shield. This edge lasts for one turn, plus 
an additional turn per extra Conviction Trait the hunter spends when activating it. 
A Defender may only use this edge once per scene, and its effects end immediately if 
he is Incapacitated. No other actions are possible while the shield is maintained, 
including moving from the spot where the shield was created. 
Judgment 
Although the need for the Zealous to destroy the supernatural bums deep within 
them, sometimes it’s not always obvious what the best comse of action would be, or 
which creature is most deserving of punishment and which would simply be a 
potentially devastating waste of effort. Fortunately, that’s where Judges come in, using 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
1 
1 
1 i I 
their powers of observation and deduction to direct the fury of their fellow imbued 
where it would be most useful and sparing those who are undeserving of such 
punishment from the attacks of their fellows. Many Judges were people of strong 
convictions who held themselves (or society, or both) to a high standard of conduct, 
but who also realized that brute force and intimidation were unsatisfactory means of 
establishing this standard for everyone else. Their current roles give new dimension 
to these ideals, forcing them to pick out which targets are corrupting society the most 
while at the same time offering a reprieve to those rare creatures that aren’t as much 
a part of the problem as the rest of the monsters. 
Helping Judges make these difficult decisions are a number of edges that grant 
extra insight into a creature or situation, as well as impose burdens of guilt and 
judgment on those monsters they find unworthy. 
Touched 
Discern 
The benefits of this edge are two-fold: first, it allows the imbued to more 
accurately identify what type of supernatural creature she is facing; second, it grants 
the hunter perfect vision, regardless of blinding lights or total darkness (or even if she 
has lost her eyes entirely). By concentrating for a turn and making a Mental Challenge 
against a target, the hunter’s heightened powers of observation give her one or two 
clues as to the being’s true nature - 
she might notice the tips of a bloodsucker’s fangs 
and the fact that it doesn’t blink, for example, or that a shapechanger in human form 
still pants like an animal and growls slightly under its breath. These clues must be 
something the hunter can visually observe (however slight), but it should be noted 
that while these clues are never outright misleading, they do not always make it 
immediately obvious what a creature might be either, especially to inexperienced 
imbued. For example, it is rumored that there are bizarre spider-changers who are quite 
vampiric in appearance, and assuming that a creature is a rot just because it doesn’t 
breathe is a potentially devastating mistake. This edge lasts for 10 minutes, plus an 
additional 10 minutes for each ConvictionTrait the hunter wishes to spend, and while 
it may supplement or even replace the second sight in some cases, it provides no mind- 
or body-control protection as the sight does. 
This edge can also be used to search for clues of recent supernatural involvement 
with a particular place or person -suchuses require a Mental Challenge against seven 
Traits, and as usual how the hunter interprets the clues she’s given is up to them. This 
edge is best employed with a Narrator, to ensure that fair and appropriate clues are 
given. Lastly, while this edge is active the hunter ignores all penalties for blindness/ 
darkness, and can see everything as easily as if she was in a well-lighted room. 
Vigilance 
All hunters quickly learn to exist with less sleep than before, especially as the 
nightmares set in, but Judges with this edge are unique in that they become physically 
capable ofgetting by on much less sleep than a normal person when the situation calls 
for it. Furthermore, she becomes flawless at activating her Conviction defense even 
at times other hunters would be caught unaware, as her ability to sense impending 
supernatural manipulation is heightened to an incredible degree. For each Zeal Trait 
the Judge has, she requires one hour less of sleep per night to function normally 
(starting at a base of seven hours). She is also automatically roused to full readiness by 
even the slightest noises or disturbances, and can act at no penalty in such situations. 
In addition, the Judge is considered to automatically succeed on all instinctive 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
1 I 
i I 
I 
attempts to activate her Conviction defense, even while asleep, enabling her to raise 
her defenses against threats of mental or emotional control that would catch other 
imbued off guard. There is a price to pay for such perpetual alertness, however - 
for 
every 24,hour period the hunter requires the use of this edge to get by, she subtracts 
one Willpower Trait from her reserve. All Willpower lost this way is immediately 
returned the first night she gets a normal amount ofsleep. This power cannot be shared 
with other imbued. 
Cif ted 
Burden 
Bringing the full weight of her scrutiny to bear on a supernatural creature, the 
imbued literally fixes it in place for as long as she keeps her gaze on it. A Willpower 
Challenge (ZealTraitscount) against adifficulty equal to the creature’s PhysicalTraits 
is required to activate this edge; if she wins, she may keep the creature locked in place 
for a number of turns equal to her Zeal rating. She may attempt to use this edge on a 
number of monsters at once, provided she can keep her gaze on all of them - 
a single 
challenge is performed against the entire group, which resists with a number of 
Physical Traits equal to their strongest member’s plus one for each creature beyond the 
first. Creatures affected by this power can still act normally - 
fight, speak, use their 
powers, etc. -but cannot move more than a foot from the spot. Likewise, the hunter 
can attack the creature or otherwise interact with it however she likes, but attacking 
anything else or likewise significantly diverting her attention ends the effect imme- 
diately. (Note: Eye-to-eye contact is not required for this power, so long as the hunter 
keeps her general gaze on the creature.) This power does not function on normal 
humans or other imbued, though it can be used to free a host from a possessing spirit 
by locking the spirit in place and then pulling the host body away. Beings with powers 
of Supernatural movement - 
incredible speed, teleportation, etc. - 
can make one 
attempt per turn to try to break free with these powers, making a normal test of the 
appropriate type against the hunter’s Physical Traits. 
Anathema 
With this edge, a Judge can make a particular person repugnant for all supematu- 
ral creatures to feed upon, or cause them to suffer greatly when attempting to replenish 
their energies in a specific place. By touching the person or visiting the place she 
desires to make off-limits, the Judge may then draw the symbol for judgment and make 
a number of Mental Challenges equal to her Zeal rating, against a difficulty of five 
Traits. For each test she wins, a Supernatural creature suffers a level of bashing damage 
each turn that it attempts to feed on the person or at the place in question. The 
experience becomes nauseating and painful in the extreme, though the monster may 
stillcontinue feeding ifit likes-abbloodsuckermight stilldrainavictimdry, hut doing 
so will be one of the more unpleasant and punishing experiences of its unlife. This edge 
lasts for one day per Zeal Trait the Judge has, and the imbued may have a number of 
bans active equal to her Zeal rating (she need not be near any of them once the edge 
has been placed on them). It even persists if the Judge is Incapacitated, although she 
may also rescind it sooner if she likes. This edge has no effect on other imbued or 
normal humans, and cannot be used to protect asupernatural creature from others that 
would feed on it. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Devoted 
Balance 
With this simple yet devastating edge, the hunter cuts a creature off from a form 
of energy it requires (typically one stolen from humankind). To activate this edge, the 
imbued must look at the creature and curse it in some loud, dramatic fashion - 
anything from the more prosaic “With creation as my witness, the dreams of the living 
shall give you no more comfort!” to a simple “Starve, bastard!”The hunter must then 
defeat the monster in a test of her Mental Traits (Zeal Traits included) against the 
creature’s Physical Traits. If she wins, the creature cannot use any power or perform 
any function that requires supernatural energy of any kind, such as Blood/Rage/ 
Gnosis/Quintessence/Pathos/Glamour/etc. 
Willpower use remains unaffected. This 
effect persists even if the hunter is killed or the monster flees her presence, lasting for 
the rest of the session/a number of hours equal to the hunter’s Zeal rating, whichever 
lasts longer. 
vow 
Sometimes a compromise is the only way to end a conflict, much as other imbued 
might hate to admit it, and this edge allows the Judge to walkaway from a conflict with 
honor by ensuring that a monster makes a substantial behavioral modification. The 
Judge must verbally negotiate a deal with the monster, in which it promises to forego 
a particular activity (“I’ll never kill another human being,” “I’ll leave town and never 
come back,” etc.). Creatures that are incapable of intelligent conversation, even if 
only temporarily due to frenzy or other disturbed mental states, are thus incapable of 
being affected by this edge. The hunter may even make a contract with intangible 
spirits, provided that there is some form of intelligible communication between the 
two parties. Once the promise is made, the Judge must spend a Conviction Trait and 
trace the symbol for judgment on the creature; if the promise is ever broken, the seal 
immediately bursts into flame, inflicting three levels of lethal damage to the target and 
instantly alerting the Judge no matter how far away she might be. Each contract lasts 
for one month per Zeal Trait the hunter has, and she may maintain a number of them 
up to her Zeal rating, though not more than one with any particular creature. This edge 
cannot compel a creature to actively perform an action, such as destroy itself or attack 
another supernatural creature, only proscribe a specific action and make it punishable. 
Likewise, the creature must agree wittingly, though the Judge is free to use as much 
coercion as she likes to elicit a vow - 
indeed, many creatures are only too glad to make 
such promises when their alternatives are certain death at the hands of the Judge and 
her comrades. A pact can also be ended by the Judge at any time, though the monster 
is unaware the ban is lifted unless it actually performs the forbidden action and goes 
unpunished. 
I IS p i r e d 
Pierce 
Many hunters quickly become used to sorting truth from lies, but imbued with 
this edge become preternaturally adept at it - 
they are essentially human lie detectors, 
and even become able to receive brief visions of a subject’s past encounters with the 
supernatural. The former and more common use of this edge allows the hunter to spend 
a Conviction Trait - 
for the next scene, she may make a Simple Test to determine 
the veracity of anything she hears. If she wins or ties, she may ask the speaker if the 
last statement he spoke was the truth, as far as he is aware. Any lie detected causes the 
hunter to experience a short and typically unpleasant feeling - 
a sour smell, a bitter 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
1 I 
I I 
I 
taste, etc. Conviction Traits risked on this edge allows for a retest of any of these 
challenges on a one-for-one basis (no more than one retest per challenge). To use the 
latter aspect of this edge, the hunter must spend a Conviction Trait and engage the 
target in a Mental Challenge (including Zeal); the results depend on whether the 
target was a normal human or a supernatural creature. If a normal human is the target, 
the hunter receives a briefvision of his last contact with the supernatural (if any), even 
if those memories have been suppressed by the subject’s conscious mind. If a monster 
is the target, the hunter receives a vision of the creature’s past -either 
memories that 
regard a particular person, place or thing, or calling up a specific, short period of time 
(“What were you doing on Thursday night two weeks ago?”). In either case, only 
events up to two months in the past can be witnessed, plus an additional month for 
each Conviction Trait the hunter wishes to spend. 
Confession 
By tapping into a target’s mind, the Judge can extract a truthful answer (as the 
target is aware of it) for one specific question. A Conviction Trait is required to 
activate this edge. Once it is spent, the Judge simply touches the target (using a 
Physical Challenge if he resists), asks a question in a language the target understands 
and makes a Mental Challenge against the target’s Willpower. Incorporeal targets can 
be subjected to this edge, if they can understand the Judge and she can touch the space 
they’re currently occupying. If the test is successful, the target must relate the truthful 
answer to the Judge out of game, who then automatically speaks it aloud in game. All 
answers can be no longer than one sentence; if the information the Judge desires can’t 
be boiled down to something that clear-cut, then an answer simply doesn’t come. 
What’s more, if the Judge fails the test, she must immediately make a Simple Test - 
on a loss, the target may feed her false information instead, which she will naturally 
believe to be true. A Judge can use this edge on normal humans and other hunters, 
though imbued tend to regard such thought-sifting as a deep insult, and even normal 
folk don’t take too kindly to other people suddenly blurting out potentially surprising 
or unpleasant truths. Regardless of success or failure, this edge cannot be used on a 
target more than once per scene, and the Storyteller may rule that certain particularly 
ancient or powerful monsters are immune to such superficial mind-reading. 
Exalted 
Expose 
At this level, the hunter can reveal all supernatural creatures to the normal 
humans in the area, dropping all disguises (Supernatural or otherwise) to lay bare their 
true natures. The imbued must spend two Conviction Traits and make a tes t of her Zeal 
rating against adifficulty ofeight Traits. Ifsuccessful, all normal humans automatically 
perceive any supernatural creatures in the hunter’s line of sight for what they truly are. 
Each supernatural creature must briefly describe itself in terms of a horrifying vision 
of their wicked nature (whether they are truly wicked or not). A bloodsucker might 
appear as a hideous corpse with blood running from its fanged mouth, while a 
shapechanger could suddenly seem to be a monstrous man-beast or a wizard become 
surrounded by crackling unholy energies. Imbued do not appear any different to those 
under the effect of this edge. Note that while normal people can now perceive what 
stalks among them, they still have strong instincts telling them to avoid such 
dangerous creatures, and will tend to rationalize away what they saw as best they can 
once they leave the immediate area. Therefore this edge comes up somewhat wanting 
if the hunter wishes to use it to raise an instant army of torch-bearing peasants. 
i
I
b P 
f 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


However, many monsters will still flee the scene rather than risk further damaging 
their mundane disguises, especially those who have a high profile in human society. 
Even normal humans who’d rather pretend they merely had a bit too much wine at 
dinner will never again be truly comfortable with a being they now know (subcon- 
sciously or otherwise) to be something unnatural, and clever hunters can use this 
distrust to potentially devastating effect if they time this edge correctly. 
Note: While superficially similar to the imbuing that the hunter herself origi- 
nally experienced, there is no evidence to date that this edge can be used to spark an 
imbuing in other humans. That remains the province of the Heralds alone. 
Imprison 
This edge is essentially an adv 
restrain a creature for hours instead 
required to activate this edge, a 
At the beginning of the next t 
sion of Burden, allowing the Judge to 
moments. Two Conviction Traits are 
spend afull turn gazing at her target. 
a Physical Challenge (Zeal counts) 
that the creature is trapped in place 
continues to fu 
monster is threa 
making a test of the relevant Traits 
at the time the edge was activated. 
ower against the hunter’s Physical Traits 
umans and fellow imbued are unaffected 
duration of this edge or even disallow it 
a player who won’t return). 
Vengeance 
If any creed truly takes Zeal to h 
of their Virtue wholeheartedly, with 
do their best to live up to them in 
have (and they have a lot). Evil m 
terrible retribution. Compromise is 
exhale lies and deception with every 
of dealing such punishment may be: 
the Avengers - 
they accept the ideals 
ation or hesitation in the slightest, and 
the supernatural that they 
icked deeds met with swift, 
when dealing with beings that 
. It doesn’t matter what the price 
e complex. Avengers don’t 
though they’re more than 
necessarily take the fight to their 
capable of defending themselves 
as the means to make their punishment cut through even the most ancient creature’s 
defenses. 
Touched 
Cleave 
This edge allows a hunter to deal devastating blows to the enemy, regardless of 
whether she’s using a standard melee weapon, a regular household item or even lust 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


her bare hands. What’s more, there are rumors of some hunters spontaneously 
manifesting gleaming energy weapons or even phantom limbs in order to use this edge. 
Cleave can be activated or deactivated at any time as a reflexive action; while it 
is active, all damage the hunter deals with brawling or melee attacks is automatically 
considered lethal damage. If a weapon normally inflicts lethal damage (such as a sword 
or an ax), it inflicts an additional level of lethal damage for the duration of this edge. 
All targets take this enhanced damage, including normal humans and even incorpo. 
real opponents. In addition, the hunter is considered two Traits up on all challenges 
to attack with this edge. However, this edge does have a price - 
while her body itself 
is in no danger, melee weapons the hunter uses cannot withstand the energies this edge 
sends coursing through them and quickly fall apart. A weapon may only be used as 
many times as it has Bonus Traits before it is in danger of falling apart; after that, the 
hunter must make a Zeal test against six Traits at the beginning of each turn. Failure 
means the weapon immediately falls to pieces, becoming completely useless. In 
addition, weapons pushed beyond their limits in this fashion automatically fall apart 
at the end of the current combat, and cannot be repaired without considerable time 
and effort (if at all). Thus, a sword with three bonus Traits can be used “safely” for three 
turns before the imbued is required to make a Zeal test each turn to see if it survives. 
This edge cannot be used with ranged or thrown weapons of any kind. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, some hunters - 
typically ones with fairly far-out 
views of reality, even for one of the imbued - 
may spontaneously manifest weapons 
of pure energy, visible only to monsters and other imbued. Such weapons should be 
exceedingly rare and be given Traits as the Storyteller sees fit, and he is fully within 
his discretion to allow such “outlandish” uses of this edge if it would conflict with the 
tone of the game. 
Impact 
This edge is fundamentally identical to Ckaue, except that it applies only to 
thrown weapons or items of some kind, and that each weapon empowered by this edge 
is lost or shattered after the very first use, regardless of how many Bonus Traits it might 
have. Otherwise, the same guidelines apply: all damage done by the thrown weapon 
is considered lethal, and items that already did lethal damage (knives, spears, etc.) 
inflict an additional level of damage. Bullets, arrows, bolts and other weapon-fired 
projectiles do not function with this edge, nor do grenades. The object must also be 
something that is capable of doing damage on its own, however minor; a wadded up 
ball of tissues can’t be used with this edge, because it is not inherently damaging, but 
a cell phone or a beer bottle might. Some Avengers develop this edge later on in the 
hunt, as they expand their combat prowess, but as a rule this edge tends to manifest 
in hunters whose imbuing finds them kept at some distance from a monster, but who 
still wish to do it as much harm as possible. 
Gifted 
Trail 
Not all monstersfight to the death-some 
are remarkably skilled at taking flight, 
making pursuit a necessity to put them down for good. This edge allows an imbued to 
touch a supernatural creature or thing and create a smoky streamer that trails behind 
it, making it easier to follow. These streamers cannot be dissipated by any known 
means, including being walked through by others as well as natural (or supernatural) 
weather conditions. Such trails are visible only to the hunter who created them, 
although at the Narrator’s discretion other imbued with powers such as Discern, 
i
b P 
f 
1 
1 
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Witness or Illuminate currently active may perceive them as well; likewise, the Narrator 
may allow monsters with especially keen senses a Mental Challenge to perceive the 
smoke, provided they have a reason to suspect they’re being followed. 
To activate this edge, the hunter must touch the target (using a Physical 
Challenge unless the subject specifically consents) and spend a Mental Trait. The trail 
lasts for a number of hours equal to her Zeal rating, unless a Conviction Trait is spent, 
in which case the duration moves to days. Multiple trails may be created, but all of a 
particular hunter’s trails appear identical, making it risky to create too many at once. 
When attempting to follow a target that is leaving a trail, for each person she passes 
the hunter may ask out of game “Have you seen <the target>? Where did he/she/it go?” 
Those questioned must answer honestly. If the creature leaves this plane of existence, 
the trail ends at the spot where this occurred, and picks up again where it re-enters 
reality. Likewise, if a creature becomes invisible, the trail will lead to its general 
location (a room or small outdoor area). This edge has no effect on normal humans, 
mundane objects or other imbued. 
Muse of Flame 
As Avengers know all too well, there inevitably comes a time when monsters 
make the hunter into the hunted, and this edge helps warn them of imminent danger 
from such sources. The only drawback is that the hunter must have some source of 
flame to work with, from a match or cigarette lighter to a burning house or car. By 
staring into the flames, the Avenger may make a Mental Challenge (including Zeal) 
against a difficulty of seven Traits - 
success means all flames seem to bend in the 
direction of the nearest supernatural creature, and continue to do so for five minutes 
per Zeal Trait the imbued has. If the Avenger comes into the immediate presence of 
a monster during this time, the flames then bend toward the next closest creature for 
as long as the edge is active. Only the Avenger himself and any other imbued who also 
have this edge active see anything out of the ordinary. This power may only be 
activated once per scene, though at the Storyteller’s discretion it may occasionally 
spontaneously activate to warn the Avenger of impending visits by supernatural 
creatures. Such uses should be reserved for moments of high drama (“Wait a minute, 
why is my lighter bending against the wind.. . oh, %$+@.”), and may even require the 
hunter to make a Mental Challenge to understand or notice the messages that such 
uncontrolled instances of the edge are sending him. 
Note: Obviously, please use caution and common sense when employing this 
edge, especially if you intend to use open flame of any kind in your game. There’s 
nothing wrong with make-believe fire in a make-believe game, after all, but if you still 
choose to use real fire, please make sure that all flames are under constant supervision 
while they are needed, and promptly extinguished when their use has passed. That 
said, thank you in advance for not being stupid. 
Devoted 
Smolder 
An imbued with this edge can create a cloud of dense black smoke, shielding her 
from mundane and supernatural detection alike (but offering no hindrance to herself 
or other hunters with their second sight active). Sight, sound, smell, and all heat 
perception are completely baffled by this mysterious smoke. Activating this edge takes 
one full turn, and requires a Conviction Trait and a Social Challenge (Zeal counts) 
against a difficulty of nine Traits. If successful, enough smoke is created to fill a normal- 
size room; each additional Conviction Trait spent allows for another room-equivalent 
I
I
1
I
I
1
I
I 
I 
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
i 
I I I 
I I 
1 
t I 
amount of smoke to be created. Those within who are not immune to the smoke as 
described above are treated as blind on all related tests (see the combat chapter for 
details), and not even the Blind-Fighting Ability offers any relief. Those hunters 
immune to the smoke receive afree retest on all Stealth tests, ignore any LoudNegative 
Traits their weapons might have (sound is completely muffled), and receive one free 
retest on a single combat test of their choice as the smoke grants them an edge over 
their opponents. This cloud lasts for a number of turns equal the hunter’s Zeal Traits, 
although she can end it earlier ifshedesires; it cannot be dissipated by any other known 
means, however. At the Narrator’s discretion, ancient creatures and/or monsters with 
particularly powerful senses may be able to partially or entirely avoid the smoke’s 
effects, but as even most spirits cannot pierce the smoke this edge creates, immunity 
of any kind should therefore be correspondingly rare. 
Fuel 
Truly dedicated Avengers eventually see little difference between their person- 
alities and the deeds the Messengers require of them; while this can lead to extreme 
behavior as it advances, it also allows the hunter to find strength of purpose in even 
the worst circumstances. Her faith in her mission and the rage she feels against the 
creatures of the night allows her to endure conditions that might break other imbued 
and stoke her inner fires higher than ever. An Avenger must be facing an especially 
dire situation to use this power - 
surrounded by shapeshifters, running low on ammo 
as a horde of rots approaches, gravely wounded away from her friends, etc. The danger 
need not be so obvious and overt, however - 
for example, an Avenger who hunts 
down a newly turned bloodsucker, only to find herselffacing her own child, might find 
herself in a situation to use this edge as well. Provided such conditions are met, the 
imbued may convert a Willpower Trait into a Conviction Trait, as her resolve to 
continue fighting transforms into active fuel for the hunt. This edge may only be used 
once per scene, though at the Storyteller’s discretion the Avenger may convert up to 
three Willpower Traits to Conviction if the circumstances are truly dire and/or 
emotionally wrenching for the hunter to face (such as facing one’s own child, as in the 
example above). 
Inspired 
Surge 
This edge transforms a hunter into a blazing physical powerhouse, able to finally 
go toe-to-toe with many of the fiercest monsters and come out ahead.. . at least for a 
time. A Conviction Trait is required to activate this edge, at which time a feeling of 
incredible power surges through the hunter and she immediately receives a number of 
bonus Physical Traits equal to her Zeal Traits. These bonus Traits are risked and lost 
just like the imbued’s regular Physical Traits, and last for the rest of the current scene. 
If the hunter spends a Willpower Trait to refresh her Physical Traits while this edge 
is active, all Traits gained from it are refreshed as well. Attempting to activate this edge 
more than once or twice a night can be quite risky, however - 
at the Narrator’s 
discretion, the hunter may receive fewer bonus Traits with each attempt as the energy 
begins to run out, or perhaps even receive the full benefit but suffer an increasing 
amount of bashing damage as her body suffers from the strain of channeling so much 
power. 
Firewalk 
All Avengers find themselves developing an affinity with fire, if they didn’t have 
one to begin with, and this edge proves that such sympathy isn’t entirely coincidental. i
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Minor sources don’t even leave a mark, and in general anything short of weapon-grade 
flame or industrial heat won’t damage them in the slightest. Taking a turn of 
concentration and spending a Conviction Trait, the hunter then ignores the first level 
of fire damage she suffers from a given source every turn, including Supernatural fires 
of all kinds. If she suffers more than one level of fire damage from a source in a turn - 
say, she’s hit by aflamethrower that inflicts three levels offire damage-she may make 
a Simple Test for each level beyond the first. If she wins or ties, that level of damage 
is ignored as well. This edge lasts until the end of the scene or until the hunter is 
Incapacitated. Note that this edge is not considered always “on,” and that any fire 
damage the hunter suffers before activating this edge is unaffected. This edge also does 
not protect anything the hunter is carrying or wearing (including her clothes), so being 
doused in flame and carrying bullets or explosives still isn’t a very good idea. 
Exalted 
Smite 
There is nothing subtle about this edge, but when it comes to erasing the target 
of a hunter’s ire, there is nothing quite as efficient as it either. All that’s required is that 
the imbued gesture in the direction of the person or thing she would like to see turned 
to ash, spend a Conviction Trait and make a ranged attack Physical Challenge (adding 
Zeal) against her target. If successful, a brilliant bolt of something not quite lightning, 
not quite fire erupts from her hand and blasts the target, inflicting an impressive four 
levels of lethal damage and usually scaring the hell out of everyone in the area as well. 
Even those not targeted feel the power of this edge - 
when it is used, glass breaks, 
electronic equipment dies, and people develop nosebleeds and headaches from the 
sheer force of it. These secondary effects are largely descriptive and entirely at the 
Narrator’s discretion, though the Narrator is encouraged to throw in at least a few such 
details so that everyone gets the idea that this is not a power to be taken lightly. This 
edge functions against normal and supernatural targets alike. 
Harpoon 
Avengers who last long enough in the field often start complaining about “the 
one that got away”; this edge seems specifically designed to answer such tales. With 
this edge, the Avenger creates a burning spear of energy (visible only to hunters or 
supernatural creatures) that can be thrown into supernatural beings, even incorporeal 
ones. Two Conviction Traits are required to create the harpoon, and a standard 
Physical Challenge (adding Zeal Traits and retested with Athletics) is required to 
successfully hit a target. On a miss, the harpoon dissipates and the hunter must spend 
more Conviction to create another one. On a hit, however, the harpoon inflicts two 
levels of lethal damage and fixes the creature in the spot it’s currently occupying; it may 
still act normally in that spot, but it cannot move without disabling the hunter or 
ripping the harpoon out (a highly painful process). A monster may make one attempt 
to escape each turn, by initiating a Willpower Challenge against the hunter. Even if 
the monster succeeds, however, it immediately suffers an amount of lethal damage 
equal to its regular brawling damage as the harpoon is painfully tom free. Otherwise 
this edge lasts for a number of turns equal to the hunter’s Zeal rating, or until the 
monster is destroyed or the hunter is reduced to Incapacitated. The range of the 
harpoon and the length of the bond created by this edge are both measured as far as 
the hunter’s Zeal rating in paces - 
if the hunter moves beyond that range, the creature 
is automatically dragged with him until the bond is somehow broken. This dragging 
normally doesn’t inflict any special damage, although a bloodsucker being pulled out 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I I 
I I 
I 
into daylight by this edge certainly has problems of its own, and the Storyteller may 
rule that bashing or even lethal damage is dealt if the hunter uses this edge to drag a 
monster behind a car or something similar. 
The lest Edges 
The following edge paths are exclusive to the lost creeds, Waywards and Hermits. 
Other hunters can never develop edges from these paths, though it should be noted 
that the reverse isn’t true - 
Waywards often favor Zeal edges as a means of enhancing 
their already formidable combat talents, while Hermits find Mercy edges or other 
Vision powers useful in contacting others or making sense of the information they 
receive. 
Deviance 
Though it is easily obscured in the sea of blood that washes over everything a 
Wayward touches, in between moments of rage and carnage one can see a glimmer of 
what the Waywards were meant to be, which in turn shows how far they have fallen 
from that intended state. Those few imbued who have been touched by this path and 
lived to tell of it describe the feelings it engenders as frightening, all-consuming rage, 
a fury that threatens to devour the hunter’s very mind. Waywards themselves seem to 
revel in the feeling of power that this edge gives them and many employ it often as 
possible just to feel the “rush” that it gives them. 
Like the imbued who use it, this path excels at spreading bloody murder and 
chaos, as well as surviving the battles they inevitably dive into. 
Note: Deviance, in its natural state, breaks just about every rule of Mind’s Eye 
Theatre conduct. Newer actually physically grapple, strike or grab someone in the 
course of roleplaying this edge. Newer actually attack someone, jump off furniture, 
throw things at people or do anything else that breaks the rules of conduct. Lastly, newer 
take the destructive, bloodthirsty urges of this edge anywhere near out of play. 
T’ruched 
Impart 
Sometimes other hunters need to a good wakeup call to get them to see where 
their priorities lie - 
and this edge allows the Wayward to do just that, by forcibly 
activating the second sight of other hunters to see the monsters around them. This 
edge requires a turn of concentration, after which time the Wayward may spend a 
variable number of Mental Traits - 
for each Mental Trait spent, he may activate the 
second sight of one other hunter he can see. This activation costs no Conviction for 
those who receive it, but also provides no protection against mind-, body- or emotion- 
control as the full sight does, only the ability to perceive monsters. Other hunters are 
not immediately aware of this drawback, however, unless the Wayward stops to inform 
them.. . or they find out the hard way. A targeted hunter may spend Conviction to 
receive the full benefits of the sight, however. This edge can only be used once per 
scene, and the sight it confers lasts until the end of the current scene. 
Cif ted 
Forewarn 
Immersed as they are in violence, Waywards become hyper-sensitive to impend- 
ing threats of all kinds, from immediate ones (an enemy drawing a gun) to less direct 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


dangers (a rickety floor about to give way). This edge therefore has several facets - 
first and foremost, the Wayward can never be Surprised by an enemy. Period. Second, 
once per scene at the beginning of a combat the Wayward may spend a Conviction 
Trait to pre-empt anenemy’s first action with one ofhis own, as his danger sense allows 
him to plunge into battle with amazing speed. Finally, when a less direct danger is 
approaching the Wayward, once per scene the Narrator may make a secret Mental 
Challenge (Vision counts toward resolving ties) against a difficulty of at least seven 
Traits, depending on the nature and severity of the incoming peril. Success means that 
the Wayward receives an ominous feeling of some kind, emanating from the general 
direction the threat will arrive (if that is possible to determine). Note that each 
Wayward perceives such warnings differently, and they are never specific as to the 
nature of the threat, leaving it up to the hunter to guess how to react to them. Indeed, 
this edge can even make matters worse from time to time - 
a Wayward who senses 
danger and ducks for cover in expectation of a firefight is in for a rude surprise if the 
warning was actually related to a bomb planted in the building! 
Devoted 
Enrage 
As Waywards see it, there are precious few imbued who truly possess the strength 
of will to do the job they were meant to do, and even fewer who feel the same drive 
for the hunt that the Wayward does. That’s where this edge comes in. When it’s 
activated, other imbued in the area are immediately filled with a blind, killing fury 
toward “the enemy” (as defined by the Wayward, or by themselves if the Wayward does 
not give them any direction), meaning that even the most pacifistic souls will find 
themselves in the midst of a charnel house at this edge’s end. The Wayward must spend 
one Social Trait per hunter he wishes to affect, and engage them all in a test of their 
individual Willpower Traits versus his Vision Traits. If a target fails, she is forced into 
a berserk state for anumber of turns equal to the Wayward’s Vision Traits, during which 
time she has only a limited control over her own actions, though she remembers 
everything normally when this state passes. Raging characters will use the most direct 
and powerful means at their disposal to attack “the enemy,” and while they are not 
blind or blatantly suicidal, any sense of caution or moderation they might usually 
display is drowned in a sea of bloodlust, and they should roleplay this fury accordingly. 
Indeed, this state is so all-consuming that even if the hunters manage to defeat their 
foes before the time expires, they will continue to strike their downed enemies or vent 
their fury on the scenery until the edge is over. What’s more, while enraged hunters 
will not normally target friends or innocent passers-by, absolutely anyone who gets in 
a berserk character’s way will automatically be forced aside, violently if necessary, and 
repeated or especially forceful attempts to interfere may even prompt the raging hunter 
to regard those responsible as “the enemy” as well! 
On the positive side, while in a berserk state the target is up a number of Traits 
equal to the Wayward’s Vision Traits on all combat and pursuit tests (this is not 
cumulative with the effects of other edges, in which case whichever bonus is higher 
takes hold). On the negative side, once the edge’s effects pass, those affected suffer one 
level of bashing damage for every three rounds they were berserk (round down) -this 
damage will never kill a hunter, though it might well render her unconscious or even 
comatose. 
A target may spend a Willpower Trait to gain a retest to shake off this madness, 
but only one such attempt may be made per turn, and each hunter must break free 
separately. This edge may be used more than once per scene, but each use beyond the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


first costs the Wayward a Willpower Trait, and a Wayward can never use this edge on 
himself. What’s more, there must be something or someone the target imbued perceive 
as an “enemy” present for the Wayward to activate this edge (be honest). Note that 
this can be a mistaken perception - 
the Wayward might well whip hunters into a 
frenzy against a pack of shapechangers they thought were coming to kill them, even 
if the monsters actually only wanted to talk -but 
there must be at least a perceived 
threat; the Wayward cannot send the hunters into a killing frenzy in a kindergarten 
classroom, for example, or against each other alone (since this edge requires an 
external threat to rage against). The Narrator can be called upon to make the final 
decision if there’s any doubt, but as arule ofthumb if the imbued harbor any significant 
fears, suspicions or past grudges against a particular target, whether they admit it in 
character or not, then the Wayward can inspire fury in them. 
Inspired 
Reap 
Leavinga trail ofdestruction behind them as Waywards always do, some say it was 
only a matter of time before the killers eventually learned how to glean information 
straight from the bodies of the dead. Regardless of its origin, this macabre edge allows 
a Wayward to do just that - 
by staring into the eyes of a corpse and asking it questions, 
the Wayward may compel a corpse to answer his questions truthfully (at least as far as 
it was aware of the truth). This edge also functions against the “undead” such as 
vampires, ghosts or zombies, provided they still have eyes enough to gaze into. 
(Looking into the eyes of a host body allows a Wayward to question apossessing spirit.) 
Against a regular corpse, this edge requires that the corpse still have some semblance 
of eyes to look into, and the Wayward must spend a Conviction Trait and make a 
Mental Challenge against a Trait difficulty equal to three plus the number of questions 
he wishes to ask. If successful, the Wayward “hears” the correct answers in his mind, 
although it should be noted that all answers are relative to the body in question - 
if 
it doesn’t know an answer, only silence will follow, and while it cannot be actively 
deceitful, if it honestly only knows an inaccurate answer, then it will pass such 
incorrect information on to the Wayward. With all forms of undead, this edge requires 
eye contact, a Conviction Trait and a Mental Challenge against the target - 
success 
means that the Wayward may verbally ask the subject a number of questions equal to 
his Vision rating minus the target’s Willpower (minimum one question). The target 
may respond to these questions however it likes, and indeed will typically dismiss or 
rebuff them, but the correct answers form in the Wayward’s mind regardless of what 
the creature states aloud. Language is not a barrier to this edge, even with normal 
corpses, but it may only be used successfully on a target once per scene - 
additional 
interrogation must be done at a later date. 
Exalted 
Spiral 
Waywards are a frightening force on their own, but those that have mastered this 
edge are truly terrifying, able to call up a miniature tornado or hurricane that blasts 
everything in its path. Two Conviction Traits and a turn of concentration are required 
to activate this edge, as well as Physical Challenge against a difficulty of 10 Traits. If 
successful, the next turn a terrible storm immediately begins pounding an area of five 
paces around the Wayward - 
no more, no less. Excluding the Wayward himself, each 
turn everything inside that area capable of taking damage (including incorporeal spirits 
and inanimate objects) automatically suffers three levels of lethal damage, though armor 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


and other such protections apply normally. Furthermore, verbal communication is 
impossible while inside the storm’s howling winds, and all movement rates are halved 
(including the Wayward’s). Finally, all attacks made against the Wayward are at a three- 
Trait penalty due to interference from the storm, including ranged attacks made from 
outside its radius. A Wayward can do nothing else but move while maintaining the 
storm, and it ceases immediately if he is rendered unconscious or killed. Otherwise, the 
storm lasts until the end of the current combat or until the Wayward commands it to end, 
and can only be activated once per scene in any case. A Narrator may be require to 
adjudicate the scope of this power, and the Wayward should adopt an appropriate 
posture and/or sound effect to ensure that all around them are aware of its use. 
Iscllat icn 
Hermits find it a bitter irony that their every waking moment (and quite often 
each night’s rest as well) is haunted by a neverending flow of information they can only 
barely comprehend, yet their particular edges are designed specifically to allow them 
access to even more sources of information unavailable to their fellow imbued. 
Whether this is a sign of where their problems may have originated or simply an 
attempt by the Heralds to make up for the damage they caused is debatable, but once 
they leam to sort the information they gainwith these edges from the torrent of images 
is the main focus of the 
using their unique link 
body, though whether this 
were supposed to play, 
recompense from the Heral 
ply the way the human 
mind adapts to the static is unknown. Regardless, a Hermit may spend a Mental Trait 
andatumofconcentration tosendhersensestoadistantlocation (maximumof lopaces 
per Vision Trait). This “out of body” state lasts for a maximum of 10 minutes, during 
which time the Hermit can make standard perception-oriented tests on what she is 
perceiving. She may even activate her second sight and its associated protection, though 
this is not automatic - 
she must first win a Mental Challenge against six Traits or it 
cannot be activated. Likewise, if her Conviction is already active when she sends her 
senses, she must win a similar Mental Challenge or it goes inactive while she is out ofher 
body. (Repeated attempts may be made to activate second sight.) A Hermit may move 
her senses around at a “fast sprint” within her range, and physical barriers are no 
impediment to this edge. However, static is triggered if the Hermit’s senses come within 
approximate range of hunters or supernatural creatures, so most Hermits use this edge 
with great caution. Note that while all of her senses are sent, she may only use them for 
observation, not interaction - 
her sense of touch could tell her if a kettle is hot, for 
example, but not move the kettle in any way. In addition, she is completely oblivious to 
what’s going on around her body, and is considered defenseless against all forms of attack. 
Should her bodv be reduced to IncaDacitated, she is automatically returned to it and 
rendered unconscious; should it be killed, her projecting senses are extinguished as well. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
t 
i 
I 
I 
Gifted 
Send 
In theory this edge is supposed to allow Hermits to communicate telepathically 
with other imbued; in practice, it often transmits many of the same confused messages 
that Hermits themselves receive. Nevertheless, it can be a valuable tool with sufficient 
concentration. A Hermit may attempt to communicate with one person at a time, and 
it must be with someone she can see or hear directly with her own unaided eyes or ears 
(no video cameras or telephones). Furthermore, it does not compel a subject to pay 
attention, and while he can definitely tell that the thoughts received are not his own, 
they are not distracting enough to incur any kind ofTrait penalty. This edge requires 
a turn of concentration to activate and a Mental Challenge with the target (he cannot 
relent to this challenge) -if 
successful, the Hermit may pass along a brief message or 
momentary image to the target. Communication typically cannot be any more 
complicated than a sentence of five words or less, or a similarly simple picture. By 
spending a Conviction Trait, the Hermit may extend this message to a full 30-second 
monologue; however, the target cannot communicate back, only receive information. 
Messages sent using this edge cannot be intercepted or “listened to“ by any means, 
though other Hermits with their second sight active perceive its use on targets they 
are directly observing. This power can only be used successfully on a target once per 
scene, and cannot be used on normal humans or monsters at all. 
Devoted 
Edict 
A Hermit using this edge virtually hands down the Heralds’ judgment from on 
high to a particular target, reminding him (for better or worse) just how small he is 
compared to the powers of the universe. Monsters, their servants, fallen hunters and 
especially evil or selfish humans are filled with feelings of shame, revulsion and self- 
loathing; those rare humans who live truly noble and selfless lives are filled with asense 
ofrighteousness, as are imbued who are true to their ideals. To use this edge, the Hermit 
must direct her gaze at a single target and engage him in a Social Challenge - 
the 
results vary depending on the type of target affected and his overall moral state. 
Against monsters or those who serve them (wittingly or not), a successful use of this 
edge immediately costs the target a Willpower Trait as he suffers the Heralds’ harsh 
judgment. With selfish or morally “neutral” individuals, they feel a deep sense of 
unease but suffer no other penalty. Other imbued either gain or lose a Conviction 
Trait, depending on how they have been adhering to their creed’s principles of late. 
(Narrator’s discretion regarding such judgments, but honesty is expected, and a good 
rule of thumb is how well a hunter has been regaining Conviction or Willpower lately.) 
No hunter can gain or lose more than one Conviction Trait per session with this edge, 
and Hermits and Waywards are completely immune to it. This edge has no effect on 
animals or creatures with totally subhuman intelligence. 
Inspired 
Transcend 
A more powerful but also more dangerous form of Reach, this edge allows a Hermit 
to send her spirit out of her body, not just her senses. This “astral self’ can travel nearly 
instantaneously to any point around the world (thougha Storyteller must be contacted 
if the Hermit wishes to observe a scene outside the regular play area), and can even 
spend a Willpower Trait to interact with the physical world in a very minor way -not 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


enough to cause damage or even flick a light switch, but perhaps enough to move 
someone’s hair or write in frost or condensation. Physical barriers or attacks do nothing 
against her, but caution is still advised, as static still applies and most incorporeal 
creatures - 
notably ghosts - 
are treated as solid to her, allowing them to attack her 
normally. (She uses MentalTraits in place of PhysicalTraits while in this spirit realm.) 
In addition, she can activate second sight or use perception-based edges such as Discern 
or Witness while projecting, though communication is limited to the minor physical 
interaction described above or perhaps a use of the Send edge. Conversely, most edges 
that affect spirits will work on her as well, and many imbued will likely think the 
Hermit nothing more than a ghost unless she can convince them otherwise. Other 
beings may get an uneasy sense of being watched if they have at least three levels of 
Awareness and win a Mental Challenge; monsters with supernatural perception may 
make a test as well, though even they do not truly “see” the Hermit, only get a definite 
sense that a presence is watching them. 
Activating this edge requires a turn of concentration and a Conviction Trait, and 
the Hermit can remain “astral” for up to half an hour (this becomes a full hour with 
the expenditure of an additional Conviction Trait). As with Reach, her body is totally 
vulnerable to outside attack while she is away, and she suffers the same fate if she is 
wounded or killed while projecting. All damage suffered in the spirit realm is healed 
instantly on returning to her body, however. This edge may only be used once per 
session, and while it is active the Hermit should adopt an appropriate posture or 
description tag to indicate its use, not to mention asign to show where her body is while 
she’s away. 
Exalted 
Proclaim 
Those few non-Hermits who know of this edge or have seen it in action can’t help 
but wonder what the Hermits might have been, if not for the frailty of the human mind. 
Essentially, it allows the Hermit to bring a target or group of targets directly to the 
Heralds’ attention, sending monsters into fits of hysteria and flooding fellow hunters 
with a torrent of images and feelings not unlike their original imbuing. 
Perhaps most miraculously of all, this edge allows a bystander to get a second 
chance at joining the ranks of the Chosen, though it has no effect on those who have 
never been touched by the Heralds before (i.e., it cannot be used to spontaneously 
imbue normal people). 
Two Conviction Traits are required to activate this edge, which manifests as the 
Hermit speaking in tongues for at least a full turn; the exact effect this striking display 
has depends on the target in question. Fellow imbued are brought nearly as close to the 
Heralds as they were in their original imbuing, and are automatically treated as if they 
have the Patroon Background fully active for the rest of the scene, regardless of whether 
they normally have it or not. There is no strict game mechanic for this time, but the 
Storyteller should make it as intense as possible and use it as a chance to give the 
imbued all manner of cryptic hints, symbols and visions, especially ones pertaining to 
upcoming dangers andother future trialsofthe hunt. Due to their constant connection 
to the Messengers, Waywards and Hermits cannot be targeted by this edge, for better 
or worse. If the target is a bystander, on the other hand, he receives a second chance 
at becoming a true hunter -provided he doesn’t back away from the truth of the world 
a second time, his actions determine a creed and other hunter traits as per a regular 
hunter imbuing. (Edges and other powers are not necessarily instantaneously gained, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


and the Storyteller will probably want tomonitor the change over to ensure it is carried 
out correctly.) Only one second chance can ever be granted to a bystander with this 
i 
I 
t 
L 
i 
I 
- 
edge, however, so a target who fails this additional test will forever remain a bystander 
thereafter. 
Against monsters, the edge requires a full turn to use; at the end of this time, the 
Hermit engages the creature in a number of challenges equal to her Vision rating minus 
the monster’s Willpower (minimum one challenges). Multiple creatures may be 
targeted at once, provided they can all hear the Hermit speak; each of them resolves 
his or her challenges and possible damage individually, however. If the creature wins 
as many or more challenges as the Hermit, it suffers no ill effect. If the Hermit wins one 
more challenge than the monster, the monster suffers a highly active derangement for 
the rest of the scene; if the Hermit wins two or three more, the derangement persists 
for the rest of the session; four gives the creature a permanent derangement or removes 
a permanent Willpower Trait; and five or more inflicts increasing amounts of mental 
damage, as determined by the Storyteller. If the Hermit fails every test, the backlash 
causes her to immediately acquire an active derangement herself for the rest of the 
scene. Derangements inflicted are typically phobias, paranoia or some kind of severe 
depression. This edge may only be used once per day, and overuse may result in the 
Hermit acquiring permanent derangements herself or even suffering physical harm 
from the strain of channeling so much of the Herald’s energy in a short period of time. 
T 
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
I 
1 
1 
t I 
There are times when a player wants to have her character do something that 
can’t be accomplished through simple roleplaying, such as attacking another person 
or deciphering an ancient text. When this happens, you need rules. 
Rules are an imperative part of any game; they define what characters can and 
cannot do. Only when confrontation does occur are rules necessary to govern those 
situations. Still, never forget that the primary focus of this game is to tell a good story; 
the rules should always serve and enhance this purpose, not impair it. 
Challenges 
There comes a time when two or more players come into conflicts that cannot 
be resolved through roleplaying alone. The system detailed in this chapter allows for 
the resolution of conflicts simply and quickly. This sort of face-off is called achallenge, 
and it makes for a very simple system of conflict resolution. In most cases, a Narrator 
does not even need to be present when a challenge is played. 
Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins; in fact, 
roleplaying becomes more important than ever if players intend to enjoy a confron- 
tation and avoid disputes. Experienced players can seamlessly integrate a challenge 
into their roleplaying so that outsiders don’t even know that anything unusual is going 
on. At the players’ option, special hand signals can be used to indicate when certain 
Traits and powers are being employed. 
In order for this system to work, players need to work together. They have to educate 
each other on the rules and agree on what Traits canbe used in a challenge. Compromise 
and cooperation are the bywords of the game. Arguments over whether or not a particular 
Trait bid is appropriate can ruin both the momentum and the mood of a game. 
Using Traits 
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first understand what 
defines a character’s capabilities. A character is created by choosing a number of 
adjectives that describe and define that person as an individual. These adjectives are 
called Traits, and are fully described in Chapter Three. These Traits are used to declare 
challenges against other characters or against static forces represented by a Narrator. 
Initial Bid 
A challenge begins with a player “bidding” one of her Traits against her opponent. 
At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the challenge are - 
firing a 
i
L P 
I 
1I
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


gun, knocking someone down, etc. The defender must thendecide how she will respond. 
She can either relent immediately or bid one of her own Traits in response. 
When players bid Traits against one another, they may only use Traits that could 
sensibly be used in that situation. Essentially, this means a player can usually only use 
Traits from the same category as her opponent’s Traits. Most challenges are catego- 
rized as Physical, Social or Mental, and all Traits used in a challenge must be from the 
same category. Experienced players may offer each other more creative leeway, but 
only by mutual agreement. 
If the defender relents, she automatically loses the challenge. For example, if she 
were being attacked, she would suffer a wound. If she matches the challenger’s bid, the 
two immediately go to a test (described below). Those Traits bid are put at risk, as the 
loser of the test not only loses the challenge, but also the Trait she bid for the rest of 
the evening. 
Testing 
Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they immedi- 
ately go to a test. The test itself is not what you may think - 
the outcome is 
random, but no cards or dice are used. The two players face off against one 
another by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors. It may sound a little silly, but it works. 
If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the duration of the session 
(usually the rest of the evening). Essentially, you have lost some confidence in 
your own capabilities and can’t call upon them for a while. You can no longer use 
that Trait effectively, at least until you regain confidence in your Traits. 
The test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over and 
the winner is declared. The test produces one of two possible outcomes - 
either 
one player is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the number of Traits that 
they currently have available in the category used (Physical, Social or Mental). 
The player with the least number of Traits loses the test and therefore loses the 
challenge. Note that the number of Traits you’ve lost in previous challenges, or 
lost for any other reason, reduces the maximum number of Traits you can bid in 
ties. You may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only by declaring 
fewer Traits than you actually have - you may never say that you have more 
Traits than you actually do. This allows you to keep the actual number of Traits 
you possess a secret, although doing so may be risky. The challenger is always the 
first to declare his number of Traits. If both players declare the same number of 
Traits, then the challenge is a draw, and both players lose the Traits they bid. 
Example of Play: Evan is facing off against a hideous creature that advances on 
him with wicked talons. Cornered, Evan takes a deep breath and charges the thing, 
hoping to catch it off guard and escape. He begins with a Trait for his initial bid (“I’m 
Lithe enough to slip past you, monster!”), and the creature responds with an attack 
(“A Ferocious claw attack is all that you’re going to get, human!”). The two test - 
both shoot scissors, a tie. Now they have to declare their total number of Traits to 
resolve the tie. Evan knows he’ll need all he’s got, so he declares all six of his Traits. 
Unfortunately for him, the creature has 12 Physical Traits, and so Evan loses the 
challenge and suffers u wound. Now he’s backed into a corner, and without some pretty 
quick thinking Evan is in going to find himself in some serious trouble. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Rock-Paper-Scissors 
and how they are used. 
!
Rdjudication 
If you have question or argument about the rules or the conditions of a challenge, 
you need to find a Narrator to make a judgment. Try to remain in character while you 
look for a Narrator. Any interruption in the progress of the story should be avoided if 
at all possible, so work problems out with other players if you can. If you do not know 
the correct application of a certain rule, it’s usually better to wing it rather than 
interrupt the flow of the game. 
It should be noted that a challenger who fails on a Social or Mental Challenge 
must wait at least five real-time minutes (and not spend them arguing over the results 
ofthe previouschallenge-youcan’tprotest 
arulingwithaNarratorfor4:58minutes, 
then drop your argument and say, “Oh, look, time’s up,”) before repeating the failed 
challenge. This rule includes supernatural powers that use Mental or Social Chal- 
lenges unless they specify otherwise - 
a monster cannot continue attempting one 
mental assault after another until he finally succeeds. This does not include trials that 
are failed but then redeemed through retests or overbids. 
b 
I 
1
Complications 
There are a number of ways in which a challenge can be made more complicated. 
I 
The basic rules are enough to resolve most disputes, but the following rules add a few 
bells and whistles. 
Negative Traits 
Many characters have Negative Traits; these are Traits that can be used against 
a character by his opponent. During the initial bid of any challenge, after you have 
I I I I 
I I 
1 
t I 
I 
each bid one Trait, you can call out a Negative Trait that you believe your opponent 
possesses. If he does indeed possess the Negative Trait, your opponent is forced to 
bid an additional Trait, although you must still risk your one Trait as usual. If he does 
not possess that Negative Trait, you must risk an additional Trait. You may call out 
as many Negative Traits as you wish during the initial bid phase of a challenge, as 
long as you can pay the price if you’re wrong. 
If your opponent does not have additional Traits to bid, then your Trait is not 
at risk during the challenge. Additionally if you guess more than one Negative Trait 
that your opponent cannot match, you gain that many additional Traits in the case 
of a tie or an overbid (see p. 236). The same works in reverse, favoring your opponent 
if you do not have additional Traits remaining to match incorrect Negative Trait 
guesses. It is considered very cheap to list off Negative Traits just to see which ones 
a player possesses. 
I 
Y 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Example of Play: A bloodsucker is trying to seduce Rachel, an Innocent, into letting 
the location of her group’s hideout slip. The creature begins with its initial bid (“I’m so 
Alluring you have no choice but to be receptive to my cham,”) while Rachel, wary ofsuch 
sudden affection, tries to turn his own tactic against him (“I’m too Gorgeous for you to put 
two words together, let alone make a move on me! ”) . Irritated, the monster then suggests that 
Rachelpossesses the Negative Truit Naive (“Are you kidding! A Nai’ve young thing like you 
should love the attention of a suave young man like me!”) If Rachel did indeed possess that 
Negative Trait, she would have to bid an additional Trait to have continue the challenge. 
However, the young Innocent isn’t quite vulnerable as she seem and does not possess the 
Naive Trait, and now the bloodsucker - 
having underes timated his opposition - 
is the one 
who has to bid an extra Trait if he wishes to continue trying to get the information he wants. 
It can be risky to bid Negative Traits, but if you’re sure about what you’re doing, 
you can raise the stakes for your opponent, possibly even to the point where she relents 
rather than risking additional Traits. 
Overbidding 
Overbidding is the system by which powerful characters may prevail in a 
challenge, even if they lose the initial test. Unfortunate as it may be, a centuries-old 
monster with 18 Physical Traits should be able to smite a newly imbued hunter who 
has only five (unless, of course, that hunter has some edges and starts using them 
quickly). This system is designed to make that possible. 
Once a test has been made, the loser has the option of calling for an “overbid.” 
In order to call an overbid, you must risk a new Trait; the original one has already been 
lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the number of applicable Traits they 
possess in the appropriate category, starting with the player who called for the overbid. 
If you have double the number of Traits as your opponent in that category, you may 
attempt another test. As with a tie, you may state a number of Traits less than the 
actual number you have and keep your true power secret. This can be dangerous unless 
you are confident in your estimation of your opponent’s abilities. 
Example of Play: Ashley is facing down a bloodthirsty skinchanger; he’s succeeded at 
keeping it from getting past him so far, but he knows it’s only a matter of time before the 
creature decides to be more forcefuland l a d  ashot that takes himout ofthe fight. Desperate, 
he activates Cleave and swings his shovel at the beast (“May the Lord forgive my need for 
such a Brutal strike!”), while the creature attempts to turn the blow as& (“Fool! I am far 
too Tough for such a pathetic swing to harm me!”). They test and Ashley wins, but the 
monster is in no mood for games. Figuring it has far more Traits than even the burly Avenger, 
the creature bids additional Trait (“I’m Tenacious enough to keep on coming!”) and calls 
for an overbid. Having won the first test, Ashley does not need to risk an additional Trait. 
The beastannouncesall18ofits PhysicalTraits, andsince Ashley hasonly sixPhysicalTraits 
left the overbid proceeds. They test again, and this time the creature wins. Ashley loses the 
Brutal Trait he bid, and the monster still loses its initialTough Trait, but it h 
won the final 
challenge and so it knocks aside Ashley’s swing and laughs at him. 
Static Ghallenges 
Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge against a Narrator rather than 
against another player. For example, a hacker may use a Static Mental Challenge with 
the Computer Ability to break into another computer system. In such circumstances, 
you bid a Trait that would be appropriate, then perform a test against the Narrator. 
Before the test is made, the Narrator decides on the difficulty of the task which you are 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


attempting - 
this is the number of Traits you are bidding against, which is used to 
compare in the event of a tie. The test proceeds exactly as it would if you were testing 
against another character. Of course, you may attempt to overbid in a Static 
Challenge, but beware, because the Narrator can overbid as well. The number of Traits 
attached to the challenge should represent the difficulty and danger inherent in the 
challenge. 
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books, doors or even 
magical items. These notes indicate the type of challenges that must be won for 
something to occur (such as deciphering a tome or picking a lock). 
Simple rests 
Simple Tests are used to determine if you can do something successfully when 
there is no real opposition. Simple Tests are often used when using edges. Most Simple 
Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, though some may. 
When a Simple Test is called, a test (Rock-Paper-Scissors) is performed against 
a Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds on a win or a tie, although in some cases, 
it may be necessary for the player to win for him to receive any benefit from the 
challenge. 
Retests 
CertainTraits allow acharacter toretest. A retest allows acharacter to ignore the 
results of the first test and test again for a new result. Retests are most commonly gained 
through Abilities, but other Traits may also provide them; such Traits are noted in 
their descriptions. Generally, expending one level of an appropriate Ability allows for 
one retest. 
Multiple retests are possible on asingle challenge, but eachretest must come from 
a different source. A character may retest a challenge once using a level of Brawl and 
then retest again through the Merit: Luck, but may not gain multiple retests with the 
Brawl Ability on the same challenge. 
Retests may be canceled (“blocked”) by a character who is capable of matching 
the conditions of the retest. Thus, if a player uses Firearms to retest when firing a gun, 
the opponent may expend a level of Dodge to block the retest and force the attacker 
to accept the results of the original test. 
Example of Play: Destiny is out of her element - 
the Visionary researcher has been 
ambushed in her apartment by a mysterious creature searchingfor answers about an ancient 
text she’s been studying at the university. Terrified, she attempts to escape (“I’m Quick 
enough to bolt out the door!”) while the creature simply sneers and goes to grab her (“I am 
quite Wiry myself, my dear - 
you’re not getting away from me!”). They test and Destiny 
wins, but the creature is unwilling to let her escape so easily and s p e d  a level of Brawl to 
callfor a retest (“Ifit’s a Brawl you want, I’ll give it to you!”). They perform another test 
and this time the creature wins - 
while it has spent a level of Brawl, it has what it wants, and 
Destiny is in trouble indeed. 
Fortune smiles on the youngVisionary, however, as herfiendandfellow imbued Chris 
huppens to show up just in time to see what’s going on. Pulling a gun on the beast, he 
announces he’s going to try to shoot it before it can get a good enough hold on Destiny to use 
her as a hostage ( T m  Alert enough to keep you from getting the upper hand!”), while the 
creature simply tries to avoid the attack (“I’m Quick enough in close quarters to avoid your 
hasty shot!”). TheyQerformatest,andChriswins. Frantic, thecreature tries touseitsBraw1 
skillonceagain (“I’mgoodenoughinaBrawltostay 
outofham’s way!”) butChris, a trained 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


marksman, immediately blocks the retest with Firearms (“I’m good enough with Firearms 
tomakeashot like this, noproblem.”), andnoretestisperformed. Thecreature takesa bullet 
to the chest and staggers buck, giving Destiny enough time to reach her fnend, and Chris 
enough time to rake aim for another shot. 
Relenting 
At any time before the actual test is performed, a player may choose to acquiesce 
and admit defeat. Characters who relent automatically lose the challenge, but do not 
lose any Traits, even if they bid one before relenting. They also help the game flow 
along more smoothly than extended Rock-Paper-Scissors matches do. 
B@RUS 
Traits 
Certain weapons and special powers grant a character bonus Traits during a 
challenge. You may add these extra Traits toward a character’s total whendetermining 
a tie involving that weapon or special Ability. 
Order sf Challenges 
Since multiple challenges will inevitably occur simultaneously during any given 
fight, the Narrator needs some means of determining who acts first and who acts last. 
Each person involved in a given game turn checks the current number of Traits 
appropriate to the action they wish to attempt. A character punching someone would 
use Physical Traits to determine speed, while a character casting a spell would probably 
use Mental Traits. If an action does not require any sort of Trait challenge, it occurs 
last in the turn. As with overbidding, you may declare fewer Traits than you possess, 
if you wish. Characters with equal numbers of Traits are assumed to go “simulta- 
neously,” though for resolution purposes the Narrator may simply choose one to act 
first. 
Sometimes a character with a high number of Traits will attack a character with 
fewer Traits, who will decide to strike back. In this case, the character with fewer Traits 
resolves his action in the same test as the faster character, but in doing so, he loses the 
ability to take any aggressive action for the turn - 
he uses up his one action with the 
counterattack. 
Example of Play: Destiny and Chris are still facing down the creature in her 
apartment, when it decides to favor the better part of valor and flee through the buck. 
Unfortunately for the monster, their teammate Greg has been creeping up behind it and 
announces that he’s tackle it to the ground. Greg has seven Physical Traits, while the creature 
has sixPhysicalTraits, so Gregactsfirst. He makes his bid (“I’mFerocious enough to tackle 
a zombie from behind!”) while the creature angdy decides to strike him in return (“Fero- 
cious? I’ll show you what that really means!”). The two test, and Greg loses, suffering a 
wound in the process. However, the creature has just used up its action for the turn by 
attacking Greg, and so must wait until next turn before making an attempt. Meanwhile, 
Destiny declares that she’s fleeing outside to safety, while Chris waits for another clean shot 
at the monster. 
The Meb Scene 
It’s a fact of life that sooner or later a large group of characters will decide to mix 
it up. Group challenges can seem intimidating even to experienced Narrators and 
Storytellers; these rules are meant to streamline the process and make such situations 
easier to resolve, rather than devolving into endless matches of Rock-Paper-Scissors. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
I 
t 
I 
First of all, find who is challenging whom. The easiest way is to count to three and 
have everyone point to the person they wish to target that turn. If no one is being 
challenged by more than one person, then challenges are carried out normally. 
If one character is challenged by several targets, or tries to challenge multiple 
opponents at once, resolve it in the following manner. First deal with groups in the 
order of largest to smallest, just for ease of play. Each attacker must bid an appropriate 
Trait as normal for the challenge required; spatial logistics generally put a limit of up 
to five characters physically attacking another character at once. 
Next, the defender character must have enoughTraits to counter every opponent 
in the group; if he does not have enough Traits, he must relent to the rest of his 
opponents (although he may choose which ones he relents to). Resolve such relented 
challenges first - 
it is very possible the defender may fall before the rest of the group 
can act! 
Finally, the defender and any remaining attackers engage in one simultaneous 
test. The defender then compares his sign to each of the attacker’s signs, applying the 
appropriate results. Thus, if the defender throws Scissors and his attackers throw Rock, 
Scissors, Paper and Paper, the defender is considered to have lost to the first challenger, 
tied the second (resolved like any other tie) and beaten the last two. The defenders 
and attackers lose Traits bid in any given loss. If the defender in the previous example 
had bid one Trait against every attacker, he would have lost one Trait to the first 
attacker, and an additional Trait if he had lost the tie as well. 
Once the tests have been made, they are resolved in the standard order of actions 
and initiative. It is possible for a defender to lose Traits to the first attackers and then 
lose a tie to an attacker later in the same mob challenge. That’s OK - 
the first 
attackers “softened up” the defender. However, unless the defender has a special power 
which allows him to take multiple actions, he may only attempt to injure one of his 
attackers in return, and it must be one that lost a challenge. If none of the attackers 
lose, the defender simply suffers the results of their actions -like 
it or not, there’s a 
definite downside to getting jumped by a large number of people! 
When the defender in a mob challenge uses Abilities or other powers to gain 
retests, each attacker’s challenge is treated as a separate test. Thus, a defender would 
need five Melee Abilities in order to retest against five attackers in a melee combat. 
Time 
Time in Mind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real life. It moves forward 
inexorably, relentlessly. For the most part, everything is played out in real time, and 
players are expected to stay in character unless they have a rules question. 
It is assumed that a player is always “in character’’ during the course of a story. A 
player should never drop character when interacting with other players. Doing so ruins 
the atmosphere for everyone involved, and typically creates a “domino effect” as those 
other players drop out of game and drag others around them out of game as well. 
Challenges may be talked through, but a player is always considered to be active in the 
game. If a player needs to take a break, he should inform aNarrator. That player should 
not interact with any of the other players while out of character, and preferably stay 
in a designated out-of-game area. 
The only other exception to the “in-character rule” is when a Narrator calls for 
a “timeout.” This may be necessary to resolve a dispute or to change the scene if the 
story calls for it. When “Timeout!” is called, all players within hearing distance must 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator calls out, “Resume.”Timeouts should 
be kept to an absolute minimum, since they interrupt the flow of the story for everyone. 
Chronicles, Stories, Sessions and Scenes 
Mind’s Eye Theatre time breaks down into five major allotments: chronicles, 
stories, sessions, scenes and turns. A chronicle is defined as a series of smaller stories 
that are all connected somehow, and may take months or even years to complete. Each 
complete plotline within the chronicle is called a story; for example, a Reckoning 
game’s first story often revolves around the newly imbued discovering each other and 
perhaps banding together to defeat some common supernatural threat. A session is just 
that: one actual night of play, although Storytellers may define a session as one night 
of game time if the action was left in media res at the end of the previous game. (Since 
many characters regain spent Traits in between sessions, this can be an important 
distinction.) Finally, a scene is the amount of time it takes to resolve the action in one 
location; once the characters shift locations, the scene has ended. If a session will be 
taking place entirely at one location, or in a large venue such as a convention where 
it is difficult to keep track of all the players at once, a scene can then be defined as 
roughly one hour. 
rurns 
To keep everything straight when players start throwing challenges around 
or attempting complex actions, the time is right to start using turns. Turns are 
considered to last about four seconds, although this may vary from challenge to 
challenge at the Storyteller’s discretion. In any given turn, a character may take 
one action. Some actions may take multiple turns to complete, such as hacking 
a sophisticated computer system. Other actions, like speaking a short sentence, 
do not use up a character’s turn at all. Once everyone involved in a turn has taken 
an action, the turn ends and another turn begins. 
, In some instances a character may be interrupted before he can take his 
action, or be forced to respond to events developing around him. In such 
instances, a character may always defend himself, although doing so uses up his 
available action for the turn. 
If a power affects a character for 15 seconds, it is assumed to be in effect for 
four turns when turn-based time is in effect. In normal roleplaying, such powers 
work for their allotted amount of time. 
Downtime 
Many aspects of a character’s life are critical to her continued existence, yet 
do not make for dramatic roleplaying or are overly intricate to take time during 
sessions to perform. Storytellers are encouraged to use “downtime” between 
sessions to allow characters to maintain their holdings, learn edges, etc. Other 
actions and interactions may take place during this time, with Storyteller 
supervision. As long as players don’t use abuse downtime privileges, the time in 
between sessions can be a rewarding roleplaying experience in itself. 
Health 
A character in Laws of the Reckoning has different Health Levels; these 
represent the amount of injury the character can endure. These levels are: 
Healthy (where a character starts), Bruised, Bruised, Bruised, Wounded, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Wounded, Incapacitated, Mortally Wounded and Dead. If a Healthy character 
loses two Health Levels from a combat challenge, she is on her second Bruised 
level. If she loses three more Health Levels from there, she is on her second 
Wounded level, and so on. 
Healthy - 
When a character is Healthy, he is virtually or completely 
uninjured. He suffers no penalty aside from possibly being cosmetically scuffed 
up a bit. 
Bruised - A Bruised character is more seriously roughed up, and his 
injuries have started to impair his viability a bit. He is considered one Trait down 
on all challenges. 
Wounded - 
When a character is Wounded, he is seriously injured in one 
or more locations. To reflect this, he must risk an additional Trait to attempt a 
challenge, and his opponent wins all ties, regardless of who has more Traits. If 
the injured character has a power which normally allows him to win all ties, ties 
are resolved through comparing Traits instead. Note: a character may always 
attempt to overbid, even when injured this seriously. 
Incapacitated - 
When a character is Incapacitated, he is completely out 
of play for at least 10 minutes. Once awake, the character is still effectively 
immobile, although he may whisper pained sentences. He may not enter into 
challenges until he has healed at least one Health Level. He is at the mercy of 
other characters, and may only heal gradually on his own. If he suffers more 
bashing damage, he is rendered unconscious for at least an hour, and may even 
enter a coma; if he suffers another level of lethal damage, he becomes Mortally 
Wounded (below). 
Mortally Wounded - 
A Mortally Wounded individual has little time left 
- 
he does not regain consciousness normally, and instead loses a Physical Trait 
every 10 minutes. As soon as the character runs out of Physical Traits, he dies. 
Only the assistance of someone with the right healing edges or the Medicine 
Ability can halt this loss, and the character will not even begin to heal unless 
treated by edges or full hospital facilities. Those who fail to improve or stabilize 
in time undergo a complete and permanent cessation of all metabolic activity, 
conventionally known as death. 
Dead - 
Imbued injured beyond Mortally Wounded by lethal damage or 
who are allowed to bleed to death in that condition are killed. In other words, 
hope it counted for something, better luck next time, make a new character. 
Example of Play: Jim is in trouble - 
separated from his companions, he’s under 
attack by several shamblers and their rot master. The first shmbler punches him with 
a rotting fist for one level of bashing damage, putting him at his first Bruised level. 
Another of the monsters rakes him with its wicked barbed claws, inflicting two levels 
of lethal damage, dropping him to his first Wounded level. Struggling as best he can, 
nonetheless Jim is swarmed just as badly the next turn, pummeled by two shamblers for 
one bashing level apiece and reduced to Incapacitated. He slumps to the ground 
unconscious for the next ten minutes - 
at this point another level of bashing damage 
will render him out for a full hour, while a single level of lethal damage will bring him 
to Mortally Wounded (and thus will fuce slowly bleeding to death unless help arrives). 
Should he take more than one additional level of lethal damage or an extreme amount 
of bashing damage, he will be Dead. If the cavalry doesn’t arrive soon, chances are Jim 
won’t last much longer at all, and even if he does he’s got a long period of healing ahead 
of him to fix the damage from this savage attack. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Opticnil Rdditicn: Visible Injuries 
Although Mind’s Eye Theatre is designed to record damage as an abstract 
thing, and there’s certainly nothing wrong with running it that way, it can add 
a great deal of realism to the game to introduce a way of visually identifying how 
injured a character is (not to mention make players realize just how much of a 
blessing quick healing edges really are). After all, in reality it would be quite easy 
to tell if a person has been badly mauled by zombies, and a visible injury system 
allows you to do that with a minimum of out-of-game statements and descrip- 
tions. Exactly how you choose to make such representations is up to you, but it 
is recommended that you make them easy to apply and remove in order to avoid 
accidentally ruining someone’s costume or giving them a strange feature to 
explain at the office Monday morning. 
For example, you could represent each wound level with a slash of red 
makeup or acrylic paint (dries quickly, comes off easily with water) on the 
hunter’s cheek, forearm or other prominent location, thus allowing other 
characters to tell at a glance how badly injured your character has become. 
Another system could be taking small strips of red cloth and tying them to your 
wrists or looping them on your belt, one per wound level. Such a system may 
require some trial and error to incorporate into your game, but handled correctly 
it can help drive home the facts of injury and recovery a lot more than having 
characters always look the same out-of-game no matter how badly they’re 
injured in-game. 
He a I i n g 
Hunters are human and must heal wounds naturally; only a few have edges that 
can speed their healing time, which means they must take care or taken out of the 
action and rendered vulnerable for a long time. These healing times also assume that 
a character is resting and has access to reasonable medical resources; needless to say, 
this can be hard to come by if a hunter has no real base of operations to fall back to, 
or if he refuses to get medical treatment for a gunshot wound or suspiciously large claw 
marks. The Storyteller is free to modify healing times for characters receiving 
excellent care or no care at all. 
Bashingilethal Damage 
Some types of damage are more dangerous than others: a punch to the jaw is less 
likely to kill than a knife wound. Bashing damage is defined as any injury which is 
painful but fades relatively quickly: kicks, punches, tackles, etc. Lethal damage is 
intended to kill, and takes humans a long time to heal: bullets, swords, knives, etc. The 
Narrator is the final arbiter ofwhat counts as bashing or lethal damage. Characters put 
below Incapacitated by bashing damage are not Mortally Wounded, but “merely” 
rendered unconscious for one scene/hour (although the Narrator may rule that they 
are put in a coma or killed if the beating is fierce enough). On the other hand, hunters 
reduced below Incapacitated are considered Mortally Wounded and begin bleeding to 
death - 
should they sustain any further damage of any kind, or be left untended for 
too long, they are simply killed. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
Recovery Times 
Injury Level 
BashingLethal 
Bruised 
One hour/day 
Wounded 
One day/week 
Incapacitated 
One week/month 
Mortally Wounded* 
Two months 
*Unless full hospital facilities are used, these characters heal only by edges 
or the Storyteller’s discretion, and most will gain a Negative Physical Trait of 
some kind from the experience (Delicate, Decrepit, Lame, etc.). 
These times are cumulative, so a character at their second Wounded level 
from lethal damage takes two weeks and two days to completely recover: one 
week per Wounded level, plus a day each to heal the Bruised levels. Likewise, 
a character who takes the same amount of bashing damage would take two days, 
two hours to heal hack to normal, reflecting the less serious nature of most 
hashing damage. Given such a long recovery time, is it any wonder many hunters 
will do their best to protect those with healing edges? 
lire 
While it isapotentweaponagainstmanyformsofmonsters, 
eventhemosthattle- 
hardened hunters use fire with great caution, as it can easily he as dangerous to the one 
who wishes to wield it as it is to her intended target. In game terms, all wounds inflicted 
by normal or magical fires do lethal damage, and may leave disfiguring hums or other 
marks as well. A character who is on fire must win or tie a Simple Test and spend one 
action rolling on the floor or performing some other action to douse the flames. 
Electrocution 
While not exactly a common means of causing injury, sometimes a hunter can’t 
help hut wonder what would happen if the rot standing next to him on the subway 
platform “accidentally” fell off and hit that third rail.. . or maybe the rot he didn’t spot 
is thinking the exact same thing. Damage from electricity results in hums both 
external and internal, and as result it’s usually considered lethal damage except in the 
case of an extremely low-voltage charge or weapons like stun guns that are designed 
to restrain rather than kill. The actual amount inflicted with each turn of contact 
depends on the size of the charge - 
a wall socket would he one level, a stun gun would 
he two levels, and a power line or other powerful source would be three levels. Note 
that most of the time in the case of sources doing two or more levels of damage per 
round, a hunter will he unable to pull himself away from what is electrocuting him due 
to the muscle seizures caused by the electricity, and thus another character will 
probably have to knock him clear of the source before he dies. 
DrowningiSuffccating 
Unlike some of their enemies, who have transcended the need to breathe for 
good, hunters are still human and can go only so longwithout oxygen before they begin 
to suffocate. As a rule, acharacter can hold his breath for 10 seconds per Physical Trait 
he possesses; the Endurance Ability can add to this time as well. In combat situations, 
this is reduced to one turn per Physical Trait, so that a character with seven Physical 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Opticnal Rule: Aggravated Damage 
Some monsters have access to especially terrible attacks that inflict 
what’s known as aggravated damage - 
foul and potent sorcery, the claws or 
teeth of especially powerful and fearsome monsters and injuries inflicted by 
supernatural weapons are all possible candidates for causing aggravated 
damage. Likewise, Storytellers may occasionally wish to stress that a particular 
creature is even more dangerous than most monsters, especially if the group 
has gotten a bit complacent due to healing edges such as Rejuvenate or Respire, 
and thus she may include aggravated damage as a way of ensuring the players 
never feel too secure squaring off against the night. In game terms, aggravated 
damage is treated the same as lethal damage, except that it requires twice as 
long to heal, and those injured beyond Bruised by such damage will usually 
acquire a Negative Trait from the experience as well (Scarred, Lame, etc.), 
which can only be bought off when the damage has totally healed. 
Aggravated damage is listed here as an optional rule because it is not 
normally a necessary element of Reckoning games - 
hunters face enough 
challenges without requiring them to spend six months in the hospital thanks 
to one lucky claw swipe - 
but it can offer some interesting extra material for 
Storytellers to work with, not to mention help provide game balance in 
longer-running chronicles. So long as it isn’t overused (“Oh no, another 
flunky with an aggravated damage magic weapon, here we go again....”), it 
can do a great deal to stress how little hunters know about their enemy and 
just how dangerous the truly powerful creatures of the night can be. 
-- 
Traits will begin suffering the effects of drowninglsuffocation on the eighth round of 
combat (assuming he doesn’t lose Traits during the combat). Once his time has 
expired, the hunter begins suffering an automatic level of lethal damage for every turn/ 
10 seconds until he either gets a source of oxygen or he dies. However, unlike normal 
lethal damage, this damage fades away completely an hour after leaving the water or 
finding an air supply, as the characters either gradually dry out and cough up all the 
water in their lungs or regain their regular breathing capacity. 
P c is c n s 
Some hunters attempt to use various chemicals to impair or kill their enemies 
before the creatures can even take a swing at them, while other hunters wind up 
finding out the hard way that certain monsters carry a venomous claw or bite attack. 
In general it is the Storyteller’s discretion as to what effects individuals poisons and 
chemicals have, from “merely” causing a subject to have a Trait penalty due to 
impairment all the way up to inflicting levels of bashing or even lethal damage until 
the poison is purged or an antidote is obtained. As a rule of thumb, if exposure to the 
substance in question would require the assistance of poison control or other expert 
attention to treat or cure, it probably does lethal damage; if not, it’s probably only 
bashing damage. 
Disease and lnfecticn 
One of the unseen dangers of the hunt is the possibility of developing all manner 
of infections, from being forced to belly-crawl in the filth under a rot’s decrepit house, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I 
P 
I 
I 
I 
being injured by a diseased walking corpse, or trying to treat serious injuries without 
proper medical supplies or facilities. Getting a gunshot wound treated nearly always 
involves police attention, for example, and even those hunters who can pull enough 
strings to ensure that their treatment doesn’t attract too much attention seldom want 
to be laid up in a hospital for long, considering how easy it would be for those things 
to just walk right in.. .. Even just the wearying nature of the hunter lifestyle can take 
a toll on the body before long; when a hunter isn’t getting enough sleep and running 
herself ragged when she’s awake, sickness of one kind or another is bound to keep her 
company a good amount of the time. 
The Storyteller may decide to have players make a Physical Challenge against a 
difficulty based on the strength of the illness and their current health to avoid 
contracting illnesses when they encounter the appropriate conditions. She may also 
rule that a character suffering from an infection will not heal any further unless he 
receives professional medical treatment, or even that his condition worsens if the 
infection is particularly bad. This is a particularly good way of underscoring how 
desperate the imbued can become if they begin living on the wrong side of the law, or 
suffer serious injuries away from the presence of proper medical attention. 
Ultimately it is up to the Storyteller to decide how much of a threat she wants 
disease and infection to be. Ignoring them altogether can make the imbued seem 
superhuman or downplay the need for medical attention, but on the other hand paying 
too attention to germs and microbes will make the players afraid to get out of bed, not 
to mention limiting what their characters do. The best advice is generally to save it 
for groups that have limited resources or as an occasional nasty reminder of what else 
can happen when you fight rotting monsters from beyond the grave, but not make the 
players feel like they have to run and hide if their characters get so much as a scratch 
in the field. 
G mba t 
Combat is the usual intent behind Physical Challenges. Essentially, combat 
involves two characters in physical conflict. The players agree what the outcome of 
the challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate Trait, and a test is performed to 
determine the victor. The following section allows for variations on those basic rules, 
such as situations using surprise or weapons. 
The agreed outcome of a Physical Challenge is often the loser being injured. This 
is not the only possible result, though. The two parties can agree nearly to anything, 
whether it’s tripping an opponent or throwing him out of a window. The results of a 
combat challenge may also be different for both participants; for example, if a 
Redeemer is trying to stop a frantic creature from escaping, he may wish only to subdue 
his target while it desires to get away. 
Surprise 
If a player does not respond within three seconds of the declaration of a Physical 
Challenge, the character is considered to have been surprised - 
he is not fully 
prepared for what’s coming. Sometimes a player is busy with another activity or is 
playing a character who just isn’t prepared for the attack. Any player who sneaks 
around whispering challenges to get the element of surprise is cheating, plain and 
simple. 
1I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Surprise simply means that the outcome of the first challenge in a fight can only 
harm the surprised defender, not the challenger. For instance, if a player did not 
respond in time to an attack, but still won the challenge, the challenger would not be 
injured. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test, she may call for a second 
challenge by risking another Trait. After this second challenge, regular challenge rules 
resumes. Overbidding is permitted for both challenger and challenged in surprise 
situations. 
D a r !t n e s s 
Night favors monsters and helps keep their foul deeds hidden from human eyes, 
but it also grants hunters some advantages when stalking their prey or avoiding 
attention from the authorities themselves. Unfortunately, one side is generally a bit 
better adapted than the other when it comes to dealing with darkness, although 
hunters with the right equipment and preparation can negate their natural disadvan- 
tage or even turn the tables on an overconfident foe. Obviously, while in-game an area 
may be dimly lighted or even pitch black, for the sake of playability and basic safety 
the play area must always be lighted well enough so that they players can see what is 
going on and move around safely. Therefore, it is recommended that either tags 
reading “Low Light” or “No Light” be posted at the entrances of affected areas, or that 
a Narrator may announce the conditions in the area when the characters enter the 
room so that they can roleplay their disability accordingly. 
Conditions of low light, such as fighting on a dark night with no moon or in a 
basement lit only by a few small candles, put all characters two Traits down on all 
actions even remotely related to vision (including all combat tests). Naturally, this 
penalty may be ignored if all the participants are equally impaired, but if one character 
can see better than another it should definitely give them an advantage. A character 
with Acute Sense (Vision) or Acute Sense (Hearing) can cut this penalty in half, and a 
character with the Merit Good Night Vision suffers no penalties at all in these 
conditions. 
Total darkness or blindness assumes that no light sources at all are visible, thus 
presenting a serious difficulty for all kinds of actions attempted. Characters without 
some way of seeing in such conditions (such as the Discern edge) are at a two-Trait 
penalty on all actions; again, this penalty can be ignored if all involved in the scene 
are equally impaired. Acute Sense (Vision) offers no help in such conditions, though the 
confidence of motion imparted by Good Night Vision reduces this penalty by half, as 
does Acute Sense (Hearing). It should be noted that GoodNight Vision does not help in 
any way if the character is actually blinded, however. 
Mcvement in Ccmbat 
Three Step Rule 
Anyone inor just enteringcombat issubject to the “threesteprule.”You may take 
three steps during any combat action and still attack. Moving one step is considered 
walking cautiously, two steps is moving directly (down one Trait in Physical Chal- 
lenges), and three steps is running (also down a Trait in Physical Challenges). 
lair Escape 
Fair Escape is a simple rule which allows players to escape from potentially 
dangerous situations without actually bounding over furniture or diving out of 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 I 
I I I 
t 
1 
I 
windows. This rule also allows players to avoid combat without going through 
cumbersome challenges to see if they can “get away.” 
When you use this rule, you can call “Fair Escape!” any time you see another 
player approaching with whom you do not wish to interact. Once you call “Fair 
Escape,” you may leave the area without being pursued. There are several guidelines 
which must be followed when using this rule, however: 
You may not use the Fair Escape rule if the person approaching is nearby (within 
conversational distance). In such cases, you must initiate a challenge in order to 
flee. Use common sense in places where there is a great deal of noise and 
conversational distance is reduced to a minimum (e.g., a crowded nightclub). 
Situations which involve an ambush (all exits blocked or the target is surrounded) 
or ranged weapons can sometimes negate the use of Fair Escape. Again, use common 
sense. 
A character using Hide or similar powers may employ a Fair Escape at any time before 
a challenge has been initiated, unless someone with some way to counter his 
invisibility challenges him. 
Monsters with supernatural speed may gain a Fair Escape by activating their speed 
before a challenge is initiated. In the case of two characters using supernatural 
speed, whoever uses the highest level of speed wins (all ties go to the runner). 
These rules are meant to hasten play, not complicate it. Always try to employ 
common sense when using Fair Escape. (As a rule of thumb, if it takes several minutes 
to explain why a Fair Escape would be justified, it probably isn’t.) 
Weapons 
For obvious reasons, no real weapons are ever allowed in Mind’s Eye Theatre 
games. Even nonfunctional props are forbidden if they can be mistaken for weapons. 
This system does not use props of any kind, nor are players required (or allowed) to 
strike one another. Instead, characters should use weapon cards, which display the 
Traits and pertinent details of a particular weapon. 
A weapon gives its wielder extra Traits for combat or other appropriate chal- 
lenges. Sometimes this advantage is offset by a disadvantage in terms of a Negative 
Trait. Each weapon has one to six extra Traits; these may be used in any challenge in 
which the weapon is employed. These Traits cannot be used as an initial bid. Instead, 
they add to the user’s total when she is comparing Traits. In addition, some weapons 
have special abilities that may be used, such as causing extra levels of damage or 
affecting more than one target. 
Statistics for weapons are written on cards and carried along with your character 
card. Weapon cards specify the capacities of each weapon. Weapon cards allow other 
players to see that you actually possess a weapon - 
when you have a weapon card in 
your hand, you are considered to be holding the weapon. 
Some weapons have Negative Traits; these can be used by the wielder’s opponent 
in precisely the same way as regular Negative Traits. The weapon’s Negative Traits can 
only be used against the wielder of that weapon. Negative Traits for a weapon must be 
appropriate to the situation. For instance, if you are firing a pistol and your opponent 
wants to use the gun’s Negative Trait Loud against you, that Negative Trait could be 
ignored if you have a silencer on the gun. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Concealability 
Each weapon has a concealability rating. If the weapon is not concealable, or if 
you do not have the proper amount of clothing or cover to conceal it, you must have 
that card on display at all times. You cannot, for example, pull a broadsword out of your 
pocket. Instead, you must carry that card in hand at all times or, optionally, you could 
pin the card to your shirt, indicating that the sword is slung over your shoulder. 
Availability 
Serious firearms and archaic melee weapons can take some time to locate. 
Firearms also require permits to obtain and may involve undergoing background 
checks or waiting periods in some areas. A character can turn to more “colorful” 
channels in order to procure equipment, but the black market often means shady 
dealings and vastly inflated prices. Weapons that have Influence values listed under 
Availability indicate the level of Arsenal or Influence required in order to procure the 
weapon through illicit channels. Finally, of course, there’s cost: A character must have 
some level of the Finance Ability or money-raising Influence to procure exotic melee 
weapons and nearly all firearms. 
Once a character has a weapon, that doesn’t mean he can keep it forever. Too 
often characters run about firing shotguns and large automatic weapons without facing 
the massive police manhunts that such battles invariably provoke. Take care that 
characters with powerful weapons understand the equally powerful repercussions that 
come from their use; this not only preserves game balance, but enforces a sense of 
realism and keeps the game from turning into Terminator. 
Special Weapon Capabilities 
Some weapons have special abilities, allowing an attacker to inflict extra damage, 
ignore certain types of protection or strike multiple opponents. (Such powers are 
noted under the weapon descriptions.) 
Armor-Piercing 
Special rounds, generally Teflon-coated, are able to pierce armor with ease. 
Although they do not inflict extra damage, armor-piercing rounds ignore any defenses 
from armor. Such rounds are typically tricky to acquire, and legal inquiries often follow 
their use. 
Destroy Shield 
Although rare in this day and age, certain old-fashioned hunters and anachronis- 
tic monsters still use shields. A weapon capable of destroying a shield automatically 
penetrates it and renders it useless after a certain number of blows, no matter what the 
size or strength of the shield may be. 
Fully Automatic 
A firearm with this ability is capable of emptying dozens of rounds into a single 
target at close range. This attack automatically inflicts an extra health level ofdamage 
due to sheer volume of fire; however, after emptying the clip from fully automatic fire, 
the character must spend one action reloading the weapon before it may be fired again. 
HigheCaliber 
Firearms of particularly high caliber can cause crippling wounds with only a few 
shots. When a high-caliber weapon hits a target, the attacker should immediately 
make a Simple Test. A win indicates the target suffers an additional health level of 
damage from the shot. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
i 
I 
Incendiary 
Burning weapons cause lethal wounds to just about anything. Some, like flame- 
throwers or molotov cocktails, burn the target with streams or explosions of fire, while 
others such as incendiary rounds (“hot loads”) bum the target with superheated 
ammunition. See the damage section for the effects of fire. 
Mass-Trauma 
Certain weapons are so powerful they inflict massive damage on a target, literally 
tearing away portions of flesh. Such weapons score an extra health level of damage 
when used appropriately. 
Speed 
Fast weapons can be used to “pre-empt” an opponent’s attack, allowing the 
attacker with the speedier weapon to strike and resolve his challenge first. A character 
must have the Melee Ability to use this special ability, and he must be attacking or 
otherwise actively using (parrying, disarming) the weapon in order to gain this benefit. 
Fast weapons only gain a pre-emptive strike against opponents in hand-to-hand or 
melee combat. 
Since many attacks are handled simultaneously for ease of play (both players 
testing at once and the winner scoring a hit), this ability is not always very useful. 
However, if the Storyteller opts to allow each attacker to test individually (attacking 
striking defender, then defender counterstriking), this ability puts characters with fast 
weapons on the offensive. 
Spray 
The weapon can strike several targets at once, as noted under the weapon’s 
specific parameters. The shooter makes one test against all the targets simultaneously. 
Each target who fails the test suffers the weapon’s damage, while each target who 
succeeds avoids the weapon’s damage. The shooter risks only the Traits required to test 
against the entire group, and loses only those Traits if any of the defenders wins the 
test. 
Staking 
Staking weapons paralyze vampires when a successful blow penetrates one’s 
heart. The attacker must win or tie two successive Simple Tests in order to successfully 
stake the bloodsucker. 
Bidding Weapon Traits 
During a normal hand-to-hand fight, characters bid Physical Traits against their 
opponents’ Physical Traits. However, if a character is using firearms, he may use 
Mental Traits instead. If his opponent is also using a firearm, she bids Mental Traits 
as well. If the opponent is not using a firearm and is merely trying to dodge, then the 
attacker uses Mental Traits to attack, while the defender uses her Physical Traits to 
dodge. This is one of the few regular instances in which Traits associated with different 
Attributes may be used against one another. 
Weapcn Examples 
Melee Weapons 
KnifeDagger - 
These easily concealed weapons are very common, lightning 
fast in the hands of a skilled user, and they can also be used as ranged weapons if a 
character uses the Athletics Ability properly. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: One health level 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed: Inclose combat against any weapon that has theNegative 
Traits Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the knife-fighter gains the option to pre-empt the 
opponent’s attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Melee Ability. 
Wooden Stake - 
Though fairly humble in origin, these simple weapons have 
done in countless bloodsuckers and other monsters for centuries, and many imbued 
become quite familiar with them early on in their career. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: One lethal level 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Staking. A well-placed hit can stake a bloodsucker or other 
Broken Bottle - 
A good example of a weapon made from scratch. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Vest (ouch!) 
Damage: One lethal level 
Availability: Any 
Club/Ax--These 
common weapons cover anything from chair legs to hand axes 
to walking sticks to battle axes; one bludgeons while the other cuts, but the essential 
function is the same. While they have fallen out of favor as fashion accessories some 
time ago, some elderly or anachronistic hunters still carry Canes from time to time, 
even if only because they were the only weapons at hand when the imbuing struck. 
monster; see the “Special Weapon Capabilities” section (above). 
Bonus Traits: Cane: 1, Club: 2, Ax: 3 
Negative Traits: Clumsy; many canes have Fragile as well. 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Damage: Club/cane - 
One bashing level; Ax - 
Two lethal levels 
Availability: Any. 
Special Ability: Ax: Destroy Shield. Axes render shields useless after three blows. 
Staff/Spear - 
Although they may seem a strange alternative when so much 
high-tech firepower is on the open market, smart hunters never discount the ability 
of these simple weapons to get the job done, not mention their availability compared 
to some other weapons. Staves are cheap, easy to make, tend to attract less attention 
than many other melee weapons do, and in the hands of a skilled user they are extremely 
dangerous. Spears are much the same as staves, but have a blade at one or both ends, 
and inflict an impressive amount of damage with slashing or piercing attacks. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Staff: Clumsy, Spear: Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: Nope. 
Damage: Staff - 
Two bashing levels; Spear - 
Three lethal levels 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
P 
I 
i 
I 
Availability: Any martial arts store, although spears are usually a lot more 
expensive to purchase than staves, and also a lot harder to explain to any intruding 
authority figures. 
Special Ability: Spear: Staking. A well-placed spear hit can function as a stake 
against a bloodsucker; see the Special Weapon Capabilities section (above). 
Longsword - 
This category covers every blade of medium length, from Western 
broadswords to scimitars; while few hunters carry them as their primary weapons, they 
can be extremely effective close combat weapons regardless, and quite a few monsters 
born in earlier times still use them as matter of course. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Longsword: Heavy 
Concealability: Trenchcoat (barely) 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Longswords typically must be special-ordered, although cheap and 
not especially durable versions are available at Renaissance festivals or military-supply 
stores. 
Thrcwn Weapons 
Molotov Cocktail - 
Simple to make, these so-called “weapons of convenience” 
can nevertheless be quite effective in battle, especially given how much certain 
monsters are afraid of fire. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Clumsy 
Concealability: Jacket (unlit), none (lit). 
Damage: One lethal level 
Availability: A sock and a bottle of liquor away. 
Special Ability: Incendiary: A target hit by a Molotov cocktail is considered to 
catch on fire, and automatically takes an additional level of lethal damage at the 
beginning of each turn until they spend an action and win or tie a Simple Test to 
extinguish themselves somehow. 
Explosive Grenade -Though few hunters have access to this kind of explosive 
hardware, truly hardcore (or insane) imbued have been known to use them against 
nests of monsters or even just one monumentally powelful target. Rest assured, 
however, that the authorities will stop at nothing to capture individuals who sport this 
kind of weaponry, and it’s next to impossible to explain why you have a crate of these 
things when the police pull you over. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud x 2 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: Special (see below) 
Availability: Arsenal x 4. Alternately, Police x 5 or Underworld x 5 ,  and even then 
there’d better be a hefty bribe or extremely plausible cover story involved. 
Special Ability: B h t  Radius: A grenade inflicts three levels of lethal damage on 
the target of the challenge, as well as anyone touching the target at the time. Even if 
they win this test, they still suffer a level of lethal damage unless they specified that 
they were taking cover, dodging out of the way or otherwise avoiding the attack 
altogether (if you try to stand there and take it, it’s going to sting a bit). Additionally, 
i
I
I P
I
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


anyone standing within apace of the target must wina Simple Test or suffer two health 
levels of damage from the blast; success cuts this damage in half. Finally, those up to 
two paces from the target suffer one level of lethal damage unless they win or tie a 
Simple Test. These ranges are not cumulative - 
the original target does not have to 
make two additional Simple Tests, for example. However, anyone who takes damage 
from a grenade attack is knocked to the ground and must spend a tum getting to their 
feet, unless they possess extreme powers of strength or endurance. 
On an unsuccessful test with a grenade attack, it is up to the Narrator to 
determine where the grenade goes off (or if it does at all), unless the target specifically 
said they were deflecting it in a particular manner. However, they are encouraged to 
make misses as dramatic as possible and stress the hazardous nature of using such 
powerful weaponry. 
Rrchaic Ranged Weapons 
Crossbow - 
These powerful weapons remain the one of the only armaments 
banned by an edict of the Catholic Church, who feared when they were first 
introduced that these weapons were so effective at killing that they would lead to the 
extinction of humanity. While those fears were a bit exaggerated, anyone who’s ever 
seen what one of these massively powerful weapons can do to even heavily armored 
targets understands what made the church so nervous. Crossbows gain their power 
from a winch mechanism, allowing them to build up a great amount of power with 
relatively little effort. Note: Characters use the Athletics Ability for retests when using 
crossbows, and those without this Ability receive only half of the usual Bonus Traits 
(round down) due to the difficulty of using these weapons. 
Bonus Traits: 5 
Negative Traits: Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: No way. 
Damage: Three lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 2. 
Special Ability: Armor-Piercing: Crossbows ignore all armor except reinforced 
vests. Staking: Bolts may be used to stake a vampire, if the archer wins two Simple Tests 
after a successful hit. 
Longbow - 
These huge, powerful bows make mincemeat of many kinds of 
armor, and quite a few imbued who were game hunters before the Heralds touched 
them have adapted their skill with these weapons to hunt larger prey. Modem 
compound bows are smaller and use pulley systems to generate powerful pull; these 
bows do not have the Negative Trait Clumsy, but give the user only five Bonus Traits. 
Note: Characters use the Athletics Ability for retests when using bows, and those 
without this Ability receive only half of the usual Bonus Traits due to the difficulty of 
using these weapons. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: No way. 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 1. 
Special Ability: Armor-Piercing: Longbows ignore chain or plate armor. Staking: 
Arrows may be used to stake a bloodsucker, if the archer wins or ties two Simple Tests 
after a successful hit. Destroy Shield: One shot from a longbow renders a shield useless. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I 
I 
i 
I 
Crnventirnal Firearms 
Pistol - 
This designation covers nearly any sort of small- and medium-caliber 
handgun commonly encountered, from zip guns and holdout pieces to 9mms and 
standard police-issue sidearms. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 1, if registered; Arsenal x 2, Police x 4, Street x 3 or 
Underworld x 2 otherwise. 
Heavy Pistol - 
This designation covers the monsters of the handgun range, 
from the Desert Eagle to a .454 Cassull. These tremendous guns use high-caliber 
ammunition to punch large holes in their targets. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 1, if registered; Arsenal x 2, Police x 4, Street x 4 or 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Heavy Pistols allow a Simple Test on a successful 
Rifle - 
Favored by many hunters and snipers. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None. 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 1, if registered; Arsenal x 2, Police x 4, Street x 4 or 
Underworld x 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Rifles may be loaded with high-caliber ammuni- 
tion. Note that the character must specifically acquire such ammunition to gain this 
benefit - 
it is not included automatically when using a rifle. 
Shotgun -This powerful weapon fires a spray ofpellets, making targets easy to hit. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability : None 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 1, if registered; Arsenal x 2, Police x 4, Street x 4 or 
Underworld x 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spay A shotgun may affect up to three targets if they are 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 20 feet from the person 
firing the shotgun. This effect can be gained only if the shotgun is loaded with pellets, 
not slugs. Mass-Trauma: A shotgun can cause an extra health level of damage to a 
single target standing within five feet. 
Underworld x 3 otherwise. 
hit. Success indicates the target takes an extra level of damage. 
Submachine Gun - 
These weapons are very powerful, and they fire a large 
number of bullets very quickly, making them the favorite weapons of many gangs, 
where accuracy isn’t as important as hitting a large number of targets simultaneously. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
1 I 
‘r 
1 
I i 
The law requires these guns be sold as non-automatic weapons, with only single-shot 
capability, but a gunsmith can convert them to fully automatic fire. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 3, if registered; Arsenal x 4, Police x 4, Street x 4 or 
Underworld x 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spay: A submachine gun may affect up to five targets if they’re 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet from the person 
firing the gun. Fully Automatic: A submachine gun inflicts an additional health level 
of damage if the entire clip is emptied into a target standing no more than five feet 
away. 
Assault Rifle - 
The bigger and scarier relatives of submachine guns, these 
massively powerful firearms were designed for infantry soldiers in conventional 
warfare, and generate accordingly impressive results. They can take down targets in all 
but the heaviest conventional armor, employ powerful ammunition to inflict massive 
wounds and rake an area with a tremendous number of bullets. The law requires these 
guns be sold as non-automatic weapons, with only single-shot capability, but a 
gunsmith can convert them to fully automatic fire. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None 
Damage: Three lethal levels 
Availability: Arsenal x 3, if registered and semiautomatic. Arsenal x 4, Police x 5 
or Underworld x 5 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spay: An assault rifle may affect up to five targets if they’re 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet from the person 
firing the gun. Armor-Piercing: Assault rifles ignore all armor except reinforced vests. 
High-Caliber: Assault rifles may be loaded with high-caliber ammunition, though it 
must be acquired separately - 
it is not automatically included with the cost of an 
assault rifle. Fully Automatic: An assault rifle inflicts an additional health level of 
damage if the entire clip is emptied into a target standing no more than five feet away. 
Heavy Weapcnry 
Flamethrower - 
While something beyond the training (or madness) of most 
ordinary hunters, a few truly driven imbued have made use of these weapons to sweep 
out nests of creatures or just put the hurting on some unfortunate solitary creature. By 
their very nature, flamethrowers are tricky weapons to use at the very least; anyone 
attempting to use one of these weapons without at least three levels of the Firearms 
Ability must make a Simple Test every time it is fired. On a loss, they have accidentally 
lit themselves on fire and must take measures to extinguish themselves (quickly!) to 
avoid further harm, or worse having the gas tank explode. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Clumsy, Heavy, Loud 
Concealability: Ummm.. . yeah. 
Damage: Three lethal levels 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Availability: Arsenal x 5, you wacko. 
Special Ability: Spay: A flamethrower may affect up to five targets if they're 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet from the person 
firing the weapon. Incendiary: Targets injured by a flamethrower are engulfed in 
flames, and continue suffering damage until they extinguish themselves somehow. 
Mass-Trauma: Those unfortunate enough to catch the full stream of one of these 
weapons is burned even more badly than normal; the flamethrower inflicts an extra 
health level of damage for a single target standing within five feet of the shooter. 
armor 
Since it stops incoming damage, armor effectively grants a character extra health 
levels; these health levels are lost before the character himself suffers any damage in 
combat. Ofcourse, armor does not soak all attacks -a bulletproofvest does little good 
for a character who is being possessed, for example, or whose mind is being tom apart 
by a monster's powers. 
Different types of armor can absorb different amounts of punishment before 
losing their effectiveness; it should be noted that armor that has lost all its health levels 
is not necessarily completely destroyed, but more likely that it has been temporarily 
rendered useless instead. Of course, some attacks may destroy armor beyond repair. 
Fixing armor requires the proper tools and a Static Physical Challenge with the Crafts 
Ability. 
Armor has two different Trait levels for game purposes. Health levels indicate 
how many levels of damage the armor can absorb before becoming useless and in need 
ofrepair. Negative Traits are the drawbacks a wearergainsfordonningaparticular type 
of armor. 
Chain mail - 
This category covers most medium levels of metal armor, 
including scale and brigandine. 
Health Levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Any. Chain mail generally must be custom made, and can cost 
upward of $500 or more. 
Plate mail - 
Extremely expensive and hard to come by, these ornate suits of 
interlocking metal plates provide excellent protection but sacrifice a great deal of 
mobility. 
Health Levels: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Any. Plate mail generally must be custom-ordered, and can cost 
upward of $3000 or more. 
Bulletproof vest -This 
basic level of protection shields the wearer from some 
dangers, and doesn't attract the same kind of attention that more complicated forms 
of armor are bound to bring. 
Health Levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Arsenal x 2, Police x 4 or Underworld x 3 
Reinforced (riot) armor - 
The favored type of armor for military personnel and 
law enforcement officers expecting dangerous situations, these bodysuits provide 
excellent protection, even stopping many types of small-arms fire. 
Health Levels: 3 
i
I
I P 
I' 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Arsenal x 4, Police x 5 or Underworld x 4 
Ranged Gembat 
Many weapons allow a character to stand at a distance from a target and engage 
him in combat. In such situations, the character must still go over to the target (after 
shouting “Bang!” or “Twang!”) and engage in a challenge. 
If a character has surprised her opponent, even if she loses the first test, she has 
the option of calling for a second test. Once the second challenge is called, play 
continues as normal with that new challenge. The target is considered to be surprised 
for the first attack, and if he has no ranged weapon with which to return fire, he is 
considered “surprised” for as long as the aggressor can attack him without facing 
resistance (that is, if he wins on a challenge, she doesn’t take damage). 
If the target is aware of the attack before it happens and has a ranged weapon of 
his own, he is not considered to be surprised for the first attack. He may shoot back 
right away, and challenges are resolved as stated below. 
After the first shot is fired (and the first challenge is resolved), the target may 
attempt to return fire (assuming he is armed). The loser of a firefight challenge loses 
a health level. 
Characters using the Athktics Ability to launch projectiles like knives or axes fall 
under the same rules for regular ranged combat, including cover. Questions of range 
should not be a problem, but if it becomes an issue use common sense, and don’t forget 
to make allowances for things like monsters with exceptional strength. 
Gever 
Fighting with ranged weapons allows combatants to stand some distance apart; 
participants can therefore “dive for cover.” When resolving each ranged combat 
challenge, each combatant can present one Trait of cover to add to his total number 
of Traits. These cover Traits may not be used for bidding, but they do add to a player’s 
total if Traits are compared. This cover can take the form of whatever obstacles are 
around and within reach (don’t actually dive for them). A Narrator might be required 
to describe what cover is around, unless the combatants can agree upon what cover is 
available. 
If cover is extensive, it may be worth more than one Trait. The number of Traits 
available for cover is left for challengers to agree upon, or for a Narrator to decree. 
Hiding behind a boulder, for example, might be worth two Traits, while hiding behind 
a thin wood fence might only count as one. If one combatant goes completely under 
cover (he cannot be seen at all and is thoroughly protected), he is considered 
impossible to hit. The attacker must change his position to get a clear shot. 
Melee and Brawling 
Melee fighting can only occur when two parties are within weapon’s reach of each 
other. Characters using melee weapons often have access to special abilities if they also 
possess the Melee Ability; for example, a trained character using a knife can take 
advantage of his weapon’s speed when fighting a character wielding a heavy sword. 
Brawling can only occur when two characters are within arm’s length of each 
other. Characters engaged in brawling may use unarmed combat techniques on each 
other: trips, kicks, punches, wrestling holds, throws, etc. However, regardless of the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
description, unless the character possesses an edge or other ability that specifically 
allows for extra damage, all brawling tests result one health level of bashing damage. 
Specialized Fighting Styles 
Buying a specialized fighting style under the Meke or Brawl Abilities allows you to 
describe how your character moves to allow retests and permits a certain flair for your 
attacks and defenses, but does not allow you to do extra damage or specific injuries. 
T’we-Gun Mcje 
It’s possible to use more than one weapon at a time in combat, though it’s quite 
tricky. Just performing a task with the wrong hand is sufficient to penalize your chance 
of success; compounding matters by doing something else with the other hand doesn’t 
help any. 
For the purposes of simplicity, it’s usually easiest to assume that the character has 
the same-handedness as the player, unless the Merit: Ambidextrous is taken. Further- 
more, these rules do not apply to common uses of both hands, such as typing, playing 
a musical instrument or working a craft. 
When performing tasks with the off hand, you suffer a two-Trait penalty. Thus, 
you must bid a total of three Traits to initiate the challenge, and you have a lower 
chance of success. 
The Merit: Ambidextrous means that you suffer no penalty for an off-hand, since 
both of your hands are equally nimble. You still suffer coordination penalties for using 
both handsat once, however. Thus, ifyou’re Ambidextrous, youcan perfor ma taskwith 
eitherhandwithoutpenalty, but ifyouuse bothhandsat once, youmustbid twoTraits 
for each hand. 
When you specialize in a fighting style, you can choose Two-Weapon Combat or 
Florentine for your specialty. This negates one penalty Trait from your attacks with the 
specified form of combat. Thus, instead of bidding two Traits with your primary hand 
and three with your off hand, you would bid one and two Traits, respectively. 
Combined with the Ambidextrous Merit, you can use two weapons at no penalty 
whatsoever. Storytellers should take note of combat monsters in the making who try 
this combination - 
developing such a specialty should take months of training. Also, 
remember to use common sense about the weapons that can be employed in this 
manner - 
two pistols or even two longswords are within the realm of possibility (this 
is a game, after all), but two shotguns or two spears are out of the question. 
Contests of Will 
While it is certainly not a tactic that is recommended against all foes or in all 
situations, during their imbuing some hunters find themselves staring down a creature 
of the night, armed with nothing else than their determination. Even later on in the 
hunt, imbued can sometimes capitalize on the fear and confusion a creature feels when 
facing a mortal who seems to know what they are and still will not yield to them, 
actually forcing the monster to back down before a conflict comes to blows. Success 
in a contest of wills is determined in one of two ways. First, it is highly recommended 
that this action be roleplayed out rather than resort to the rules; in this case, if one of 
the players relents while roleplaying this action, his opponent is considered to be the 
winner. If a quick result is needed, or if neither of the players relents, a Social 
Challenge is used to determine the victor instead, with the loser breaking eye contact 
and losing the contest. 
I
I
I
I I
L 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
The Hunter Code 
Ingame terms, thehunter code worksverysimply. Playersmay scrawl the words 
and a symbol or multiple symbols onto an index card or other temporary surface, taking 
care towrite the meaning ofthe symbolon the backas well, and thenaffix them where 
theywouldliketheircharactertoleaveacodesymbol.Howtheywriteit in-game really 
doesn’tmatter-spray paint, crayon, smalltwigs, blood, etc.-althoughthe medium 
shouldbenotedonthecardincaseanyone wants todefaceordestroyit1ater.Oncethey 
are placed, only hunter characters may read what is on the other side of the card- 
monstersandnormalpeople willnotnoticeasymbolatallunlessitisinaparticularly 
prominent location, and even then they will not realize its significance unless the 
Storyteller deems itappropriatefordramaticpwpses. Eventhen, they annotreadwhat 
the symbolmeans-not eventhe most ancient andpowerfulcreaturesor their powers 
cancrack thehunterccdewithouthelpfromoneofthe imbued,nomatterhowhard 
theytryorevenhowofientheyseeaparticularsymbol. 
Period. Endofstory. As arule, 
then, non- imbued who read hunter code cards are cheating, plain and simple. (Writing 
“hunters only” on such cards in mixed games is a good idea to avoid accidental 
misunderstandings oroverwhelmingnewplayercuriosity.) Illustrations ofsome ofthe 
more commonsymbolscanbe foundon pg. 24-25; subject toStoryteller approval and 
scrutiny,playersmayeventuallyevenmakeuptheirownaswell. 
Inno instanceshould 
asinglesymbolconvey more thanasimpleconcept ofone or two words, however. 
Contrary to popular opinion, hunters can choose to teach a symbol to a 
creature or normal person, but even the most generous imbued seldom do this 
for fear of giving up one of their few sancosact advantages. (And before you 
ask, the Heralds insure that torture and telepathic intrusion cannot pry the 
secret from hunters either - 
they must choose to teach the code of their own 
free will.) Only one symbol may be taught be month of game time per 
Willpower Trait a person or creature has, and it is an exhausting, draining 
process for both student and teacher alike. In addition, only firsthand students 
can learn this way, and cannot turn around pass their knowledge on to others, 
no matter how hard they try. Nor can unimbued characters attempt to 
decipher other symbols, even if they are similar to ones they understand; they 
must be taught to recognize and understand each symbol individually. Lastly, 
symbols drawn by non-imbued always seem instinctively “wrong” or “false” to 
hunters, which should be noted prominently on the description card. This is 
true even if a symbol is photocopied or otherwise perfectly recreated by one 
of the unimbued. Needless to say, few hunters trust a false symbol very much, 
though they are bound to be curious about how someone else learned one of 
their code symbols. 
Remember to respect the rules of the game when applying hunter code 
symbols: do not actually spray paint your basement wall, tattoo anything on 
your forehead or otherwise put a real mark on anything unless you secure 
explicit Storyteller permission to do so and are willing to perform all 
necessary clean up work later as well. Index cards and the imagination are 
a lot cheaper than a new paint job on a car, after all, not to mention a lot less 
trouble than trying to explain to your landlord why exactly it’s going to be 
necessary to repaint the side of your apartment building. In short, use 
commonsense. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Derangements 
The imbuing opens up the eyes of a normal person to a world too 
fantastic and terrifying to imagine - dead things that walk, beasts in human 
skin, witches with infernal powers and evil spirits that haunt the living with 
a vengeance. Not only that, but the touch of the Heralds compels the human 
to not only observe all of these horrifying things, but to take action against 
them as well, to willingly put themselves in harm’s way of these monsters 
and try to make a difference. Many monsters have powers that can twist 
emotions or shatter minds if a hunter’s Conviction defense isn’t active, and 
even those that don’t can leave trails of carnage behind them that would 
make seasoned coroners nauseous, let alone ordinary people caught up in 
this war. 
What’s more, supernatural dangers aside as the hunt goes on most 
imbued are exposed to all manner of mundane stresses and threats as well: 
divorce, financial ruin, death of friends or family members, unemployment, 
sickness and injury, isolation from loved ones and a whole host of other 
problems that can eventually bring a character to her knees. While most 
imbued somehow look deep within themselves and find ways to carry on 
despite the horrors they face, others cannot cope with the different stresses 
they’re under, leading them to develop forms of insanity known as derange- 
ments. Insanity is perhaps the greatest threat to the imbued apart from the 
existence of the supernatural, as it can afflict any imbued from front line 
soldiers and healers to strategists and counselors, and the lingering threat of 
madness is a powerful tool for the Storyteller to remind players of the all- 
too-human nature of their characters even as they learn strange edges and 
battle supernatural creatures at every turn. 
There are no set game mechanics for determining when a character is in 
danger of developing a derangement; that would defeat the purpose. Rather, 
the Storyteller may decide a derangement is in order after any experience 
that generates especially intense and unpleasant emotions, or which se- 
verely violates a character’s beliefs or ethics, depending on the character’s 
personality and how well she copes with the crisis itself. All derangements 
carry “triggers,” circumstances which cause the effects of the derangement 
to become active; once activated, derangements remain in effect for the rest 
of the scene, and players must modify their characters’ Traits, attitudes and 
behavior in accordance with the derangement description. A character may 
resist a derangement for one scene by expending a Willpower Trait. How- 
ever, if the trigger is still present at the end of that time, the character must 
spend another Willpower Trait or the derangement becomes active again. In 
the case of particularly intense mental stress, Narrators may rule additional 
Willpower Traits or a Willpower test of some kind is required. 
It is up to the Storyteller to determine what amount of time and 
Willpower is required to cure a derangement, and such cures are best left to 
thoughtful and involved roleplaying rather than simple Trait expenditure. 
A Wayward or Hermit can never cure the original derangement( s) brought 
on by their imbuing, though they can be treated for psychoses they develop 
later in their careers. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Antisocial Disorder, Charmed Life Complex, Compulsive-Aggressive DisurAr, 
Demophobia, Dissociation, Fugue, Hypochondria, Hysteria, Insomnia, Manic-Depres- 
sion, Megalomania, Multipk Personalities, Obsessim/Compulsion, Paranoia, Phobia, 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Puppeteerism, Regression, Sadism, Schizophrenia 
Note: There is nothing funny or arbitrary about the way a “crazy” 
person acts. The insane character is only reacting to the stimuli that he 
perceives to be real - to him, his behavior is perfectly normal. Players 
should never forget the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules of safety still apply when 
roleplaying derangements. 
Antisocial Disorder 
Imbued with this derangement have completely disowned conventional 
values and morals, and feel no guilt about any acts they perform, since nothing 
is wrong to them any longer. This derangement can be overt, as in the case of 
rampaging remorseless killers, or it can be more subtle, such as with ruthlessly 
amoral businessmen and politicians. Regardless of how it is expressed, when it is 
active the character is considered to be two Traits down on all Social Challenges, 
as well as have the Negative Traits Callous x 2 and Condescending. 
Charmed Life Complex 
Some hunters, usually either ones that have yet to be seriously harmed after 
a long time on the hunt or conversely those who have survived numerous 
dangerous encounters and/or recovered from grievous wounds, get it in their 
head that they have some kind of special “protector” who keeps them safe no 
matter what. Naturally, all imbued have been chosen by the Heralds, but 
characters with this disorder have an unhealthy level of belief in their own 
safety, often to the point that they stop taking precautions because they’re sure 
their “guardian angel” will see them through. The hunter is two Traits down on 
all tests in dangerous situations due to her inattentiveness, and may even 
eventually begin talking to her protector or otherwise elaborating on the fantasy 
in abnormal ways. 
Compulsive-Aggressive Disorder 
Characters with this derangement have become so saturated with violence 
and brutality that they are incapable of putting aggression in the proper context 
any longer, responding to all situations with brute force (or its nearest equiva- 
lent). While this derangement is active, they cannot use any other social 
Abilities except Intimidation, nor can they initiate any kind of Social Challenge 
except those related to bullying and intimidation. Their first option will also 
always be to use force against any perceived threats, regardless of whether that’s 
the best idea at the time. What’s more, should an attempt to intimidate a subject 
fail in a particularly spectacular or public fashion, they must immediately attack 
the one who made them look bad with whatever weapons they have on hand. 
Demophobia 
“A person is intelligent - 
people are stupid, panicky and dangerous.” That’s 
the motto of a character with this derangement, who suffers from a chronic fear 
and loathing of crowds and Dublic ulaces of any kind. Taken one or two at a time. 
- 
people are fine, but put them in a group and before long you have a crushing 
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


stampede or an angry lynch mob on your hands. Mix in some monsters who can 
look perfectly human, and you’ve got a real nightmare. Needless to say, this 
disorder can make it difficult to be part of an effective team as well. While this 
derangement is active, the hunter is at a two-Trait penalty on all Social 
Challenges, and must make a Willpower Challenge against four Traits to stay in 
any location with more than three or four people - 
failure means that the hunter 
must immediately withdraw to someplace less crowded for at least a scene. 
Dissociation 
Hunters with this disorder have lost track of the personal toll involved in 
the battles and dangers to life and limb that they see every day, and come to view 
all such situations with a calm detachment no matter how dangerous they might 
be, as though they were playing a video game or watching a movie instead of 
actually acting in a hazardous situation. While this derangement is active, they 
can take no defensive actions or use any defensive Abilities of any kind, and they 
will never refuse to do a task based on personal risk. On the other hand, their 
detachment reduces any Trait penalties by one for any wounds they receive in 
combat, though it does not negate the damage itself in any way, simply the way 
they react to it. 
Fugue 
Characters suffering this affliction react to stress by adopting a specific set 
of behaviors; in the process they suffer “blackouts” or periods of memory loss. 
Whenever confronted by extreme stress, the player must win a Willpower 
Challenge; failure means the character blacks out and the player must roleplay 
the character’s trancelike state. Control of the character passes to a Narrator for 
a scene, who dictates the actions the character takes in order to remove the 
stress. At the end of the fugue, the character “regains consciousness” with no 
memory of his actions. 
Hypochondria 
A hunter with this condition suffers a debilitating reaction any time she is 
confronted with filth, sickness or contamination of any kind, which unfortu- 
nately is an all-too-common problem encountered on the hunt - a public 
bathroom is enough to turn her stomach, so imagine what a rotting corpse that’s 
just hauled itself from the ground does to her. While in the presence of merely 
unclean conditions, the hunter is two Traits down on all Mental Challenges; if 
actively confronted by a monster such as a rotting corpse or gore-streaked 
bloodsucker, she is at a one-Trait penalty on all actions that involve being near 
or interacting with them in any way, and must spend at least half an hour 
cleaning herself after any such encounters. 
Hysteria 
Characters with this derangement are unable to properly control their 
emotions when subjected to stress or pressure, becoming vulnerable to sudden 
emotional shifts and fits of intense violence. The player must make a Willpower 
Challenge any time such stress is present, or the hunter immediately becomes 
either extremely violent and hateful or sullen and apathetic toward the source 
of the stress (as appropriate); in addition, whenever the hunter fails in a 
particularly stressful or prominent instance, he automatically flies into a violent 
rage and trashes his surroundings - 
he need not automatically attack others at 
i
I
b P 
I 
1
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


this time, though he will if they get in his way. (Narrators have final say on what 
classifies as such a dramatic failure.) 
Insomnia 
Many hunters have nightmares about what they’ve seen on the hunt, and 
others envy them for it - 
this person sleeps only with great difficulty, and what 
little rest he gets doesn’t do much to refresh him. Before each session, the player 
must make a Willpower Challenge against seven Traits; if successful, last night 
the character had one of his rare nights of restful sleep, and can act without 
penalty. If not, however, he gains the Negative Traits Lethargic and Oblivious due 
to exhaustion, and the player should do his best to roleplay this discomfort as 
well. Additionally, the Narrator may require a similar test each time the hunter 
would recover a Willpower Trait for natural rest, with failure meaning he didn’t 
get enough rest to do so after all. 
Manic-Depression 
This Derangement causes a character to suffer devastating mood swings. 
Whenever the character fails to achieve a personal goal, the player must win a 
Willpower Challenge (no Traits risked) or the character falls into a depressive 
state for a number of scenes determined by the Narrator. While depressed, the 
character’s Willpower Traits are considered halved (round down, minimum one) 
for purposes of Trait comparison, and she may not use any edges related to 
physical power or exertion. After that, she enters a period of upbeat energy and 
excitement, pursuing her goals obsessively for a number of scenes equal to the 
time spent in depression. During this manic time she is one Trait down on all 
Mental Challenges, and receives a free Impatient Negative Trait. 
Megalomania 
These individuals have made power the focus of their existence, and such 
characters must always be the most potent individuals in their environment; 
where the power stems from is irrelevant, just so long as they are dominant. They 
believe that other people are divided into two classes: lesser beings and beings 
elevated beyond their worth. Rivals are considered “competition.” Due to their 
supreme confidence, they are considered one Trait up on all Willpower tests 
while their derangement is active, but the players must also make a Willpower 
Challenge (against six Traits) for their characters to resist any opportunity to 
“get ahead by any means necessary, including framing or blackmailing their 
rivals or even killing them if they feel they can get away with it, and must roleplay 
this ruthless self-centeredness as best they can as well. 
Multiple Personalities 
A character with this derangement suffered mental anguish so severe that 
his mind reacted by creating additional personas. Each personality is relevant to 
the trauma that caused it, and the player should work with the Storyteller to 
determine how many personalities are present, their Natures and what triggers 
a particular personality. When a personality is triggered, it assumes control until 
the conditions it was created to deal with have passed. Characters can manifest 
different Abilities and even edges for each personality (all such Traits must still 
be acquired normally - 
what a personality believes it can do can be different from 
what it is actually capable of), but any such arrangements must be worked out 
with the Storyteller. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Obsessive/Compulsive 
Characters suffering from this derangement are driven to control their 
environment. Obsessive characters keep one aspect of their life constant - 
personal cleanliness or keeping things quiet, for example. Compulsive characters 
perform specific actions or sets of actions, such as constantly washing their hands 
or reciting a lengthy prayer before entering battle. Obsessive/compulsive char- 
acters are one Trait up to resist any attempt to coerce them from their set 
behaviors, but immediately fly into a blind rage if forcibly prevented from 
adhering to their derangement, attacking anyone who tries to keep them from 
fulfilling their need. 
Paranoia 
All hunters develop some measure of paranoia as a natural result of their 
new perceptions, but characters with this derangement go beyond healthy 
caution to irrational suspicion of anything and anyone they cannot explain. 
Paranoid beings believe that all their woes and suffering stem from an outside 
source. Many afflicted beings come up with intricate theories about just who is 
against them and why; those they suspect of being “one of them” are often subject 
to swift and brutal violence. Paranoid characters trust no one, not even those 
they have fought beside or owe their lives to, and they have a difficult time 
interacting with others. They are one Trait down on all Social Challenges while 
their derangement is active, and any sign of suspicious activity forces the players 
to make a Willpower test against five Traits or the characters immediately take 
some direct (though not necessarily violent) action against those who are 
obviously in league with “them.” 
Phobia 
A hunter with this derangement has an overpowering, irrational fear of 
some fairly ordinary item or circumstance, which severely hampers his ability to 
function normally as long as it is in his presence. The player should work with 
the Storyteller to determine an appropriate subject for this derangement. 
Whenever a character is exposed to the subject of his phobia, the player must 
immediately make a Willpower Challenge against six Traits or the hunter flees 
until he is safely out of its presence; even if he remains, he is nervous and at a one- 
Trait penalty on all actions due to the stress of being near the object of his fear. 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 
Imbued with this affliction are forced to relive a certain set of memories or 
sensations whenever circumstances arise that are similar to the original incident 
that traumatized them, no matter how minor or tangential these new stimuli 
might be. For example, a hunter who lost her family to a house fire might suffer 
from this syndrome anytime she smells something burning or hear a child yelling, 
even if it’s only scorched toast or part of a neighborhood game. When this 
happens, the player must make a Willpower Challenge against five Traits or the 
hunter is paralyzed by memories for three turns, during which time she can do 
nothing to defend herself. This time can be increased if the stimulus is extremely 
strong, such as the hunter awakening to find her current home on fire. Other 
characters may attempt to snap their ally out of this trance, allowing another 
Willpower Challenge, but only one such test may be made per episode. 
i
b P 
I 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Alternately, the hunter may simply begin speaking and performing actions 
related to the original trauma for a like amount of time, such as the hunter yelling 
for her dead husband; the effect is essentially identical, removing her from action 
for three turns while she performs these other actions instead. In no instance will 
she do anything that contradicts her memory of the original incident; for 
example, a hunter who was traumatized by being caught unarmed by a blood- 
sucker wouldn’t be able to use a gun he has in his hand at the present, since he 
was unarmed in the original incident. 
Puppeteerism 
Hunters suffering from this affliction are so wrapped up in their personal 
cause or experiment that have started to view other people, including loved ones 
and fellow hunters, as nothing more than resources to be used and discarded in 
pursuit of their goals. They will use all manner of tricks and schemes to 
manipulate people into acting or thinking how they want them to, and become 
extremely upset when others deviate from the roles and plans the puppeteer has 
designed for them. When the derangement is active, he is considered one Trait 
up on all Social Challenges involving manipulation or deception, but he is also 
considered two Traits down on all other Social Challenges, and gains a free 
Condescending Negative Trait due to his contempt for others as anything except 
pawns in his schemes. 
Regression 
Characters suffering from this affliction avoid facing responsibilities or conse- 
quences by retreating to a younger state where less was required of them. During this 
state they may alternate between times of whimsy and temper tantrums, but they will 
always seek to put a more powerful individual between them and whatever is plaguing 
them. Victims are two Traits down on all Mental Challenges. 
Sadism 
Some hunters suffer so much at the hands of monsters that they start seeing it as 
only fair that they start doling out some pain in return; those who go too far down this 
line of thinking eventually develop this derangement, where they begin inflicting pain 
on the innocent and the guilty alike just because they can. Not even friends or loved 
ones are safe from such a character who seeks out and savages vulnerable spots as a 
matter of habit. When this derangement is active, the player must make a Willpower 
Challenge against six Traits to avoid the hunter torturing enemies at every opportu- 
nity. He also gains a Tactless Negative Trait due to the fact that he will say hurtful 
things just for the pleasure of causing pain. 
Schizophrenia 
Individuals with this derangement have had their psyche fractured by terrible, 
unresolvable inner conflicts. This is the type of disorder most people conceive of when 
they envision insanity; victims might imagine stuffed animals trying to stab them, or 
swear that their best friend just turned invisible and is spelling his name on the wall with 
purple blood. This disorder is anything but arbitrary, however- the player should work 
with the Storyteller to determine a general set of behaviors relevant to the original 
trauma. Imbued with this derangement are unpredictable and dangerous- in situations 
where their inner conflict flares up, the players must automatically retest any tests to 
maintain keep self-control, and are two Traits down on all Willpower tests. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


General Hunter Information and Cross-Over FRQ 
What follows are 10 of the most common questions regarding the 
imbued and their interaction with each other as well as the other 
creatures of the night. Bear in mind that this list is mostly for the sake 
of clarity, and not considered “in-game knowledge” for the imbued - 
while the player might know that her hunter can’t be made into a 
bloodsucker, chances are her character isn’t so sure, and even if she 
suspects it that doesn’t mean she’s about to test the theory! 
1) Are hunters human, or are they considered the same as ghouls, 
psychics, charucters with Numina, and other “slightly more than humn” 
types? 
Except for their Conviction and their edges, hunters are consid- 
ered normal human beings in every way, including healing times, Trait 
and Willpower maximums, etc. While the hunters themselves often 
debate the question of their humanity, in game terms it’s a matter of 
fact that they are otherwise identical to ordinary people. 
2) Can the imbued see supernatural creatures! 
Yes. By spending a Conviction Trait to activate the sight, a hunter 
can immediately perceive all beings with Supernatural powers in her line 
of sight, including invisible creatures, incorporeal ghosts and possessing 
spirits. These creatures are perceived as somehow being “off’ or “strange” 
to a hunter using the sight; unless they are obviously monstrous (such as 
a decapitated spirit) or the hunter has had experience with a particular 
monster in the past, exactly what they are might not be immediately 
apparent. More on the sight and how to use it can be found in other 
chapters. In addition, several edges such as Discern, Witness and Illumi- 
nate also reveal the presence of supernatural creatures; see the individual 
edge descriptions for exactly what they can and cannot do. Lastly, some 
hunters develop a talent for using the Awareness Ability to detect the 
presence of supernatural creatures. While impressions and auras re- 
ceived from this Ability are seldom as reliable or precise as the other two 
means, it can help spare them from constantly having to spend Convic- 
tion to activate their sight, thus allowing them to conserve that precious 
resource until it is truly needed. 
3) Can hunters recognize each other? 
Not automatically, no. Since they do not show up to the sight as 
anything out of the ordinary, even to each other, most hunters take to 
wearing hunter code symbols or arranging meetings over the hunter-net 
if they wish to identify each other. The exception to this rule is if a 
hunter sees another hunter using her edges - 
he automatically realizes 
that individual is another imbued, as opposed to some kind of monster, 
thus giving him a kind of natural immunity to some possible “friendly 
fire” scenarios. Note that bystanders have a natural talent for recogniz- 
ing fellow bystanders and other imbued, but that’s another story. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


4) Are hunters vulnerable to the Delirium/Fog/Mists/etc.? 
Hunters who do not have their Conviction defense active are 
vulnerable to the fear and memory loss engendered by the sight of some 
supernatural creatures; hence, most hunters quickly learn to make sure 
they get “psyched up” before entering a situation where they know such 
creatures might be present. Players whose characters are caught off-guard 
must roleplay their characters’ fear and confusion as accurately as 
possible; such is the price of a lapse in vigilance. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, those imbued who do not have their Conviction active may 
attempt to activate it in reaction to a sudden supernatural threat; rules 
for this situation can be found in the section dealing with Conviction 
and the Sight. 
5 )  Can an imbued character be blood bound? possessed? enchanted? 
Imbued with their Conviction defense active are automatically 
immune to possession as well as all mind- and emotion-control powers, 
which includes such other supernatural control ties as enchantment and 
breaks the blood bond as well. However, while their Conviction is 
inactive they may certainly fall prey to these insidious tricks; if the 
control is subtle enough, they might only realize what happened to them 
the next time they activate their Conviction defense and the control is 
broken. (The specifics of what happens and how much a character 
remembers of it are subject to Storyteller discretion.) Indeed, imagine 
the horror of a hunter who uses the sight and suddenly realizes that 
several nights ago a vampire hypnotized him into performing all manner 
of illegal actions and then compelled him to forget about it afterward! 
6) What happens if a hunter is Embraced or mummified! Can they 
Awaken? Do they ewer return as wraiths ur risen? 
No, no, no and no. Although the wust majority of them are not aware 
of it (and even those don’t care to test it), hunters cannot become 
supernatural creatures. Period. Attempts to Embrace or mummify them 
result in regular dead bodies, and their spirits never linger in this world 
as any form of restless dead. Likewise, the imbuing itself prevents them 
from being Awakened - 
they see a different kind of cosmic truth - 
and 
the Heralds safeguard their spirits from being transformed into 
werecreatures or changelings by any bizarre rites that make that possible 
(if such means even exist). This includes gaining any benefits from 
vampire blood, so ghoul imbued are not an option either. 
7) Can a ghoul/Kinjolklkinain/mediumlpsychic/sorcerer/etc. 
be imbued? 
No! Only ordinary people are called by the Messengers - those 
with supernatural powers or any kind of significant supernatural lineage 
are never, ewer chosen. Period. End of story. Not only would such 
characters seriously threaten game balance, but they also go against the 
theme of blue-collar characters and mundane people battling horrible 
monsters that so much of the game is based on, turning a game of fear and 
horror into an action-adventure Buffy rip-off. In summary, while such 
characters might very well side with the chosen during the course of a 
game, they will never be truly imbued. 
I 
t 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


8) Are hunters detected by Aura Perception, Sense the Unnatural, the 
Awareness Ability, etc.? 
Short answer: No. Supernatural means can only detect hunters for 
what they are if they are actively using edges at the time - 
not simply the 
sight, but full-blown edges. Then and only then do powers that sense the 
supernatural detect hunters as anything out of the ordinary. At all other 
times, hunters come across as just ordinary humans, no matter how 
powerful the monster trying to perceive their true nature might be. 
9) What’s so special about the hunter-net? Why don’t the Glass Walkers 
OT the Virtual Adepts or some other group just track it down and take it apart? 
Although intrusions by creatures have occurred in the past, by and 
large the hunter-net appears to be safe from wholesale infiltration by the 
monsters. It may crash or display strange files and posts from time to time, 
but as a rule any efforts to shut it down, trace its source or even identify 
those members who post on it (save from hints such posters may inadvert- 
ently drop in conversation) fail utterly. Although the imbued do not 
know it for sure, and given their paranoia level it’s unlikely they ever will 
trust it completely, the hunter-net is indeed protected by the Heralds, 
which makes it safe from any attempts by monsters to crash it. Indeed, 
some of the more astute hunters are already wondering if those creatures 
that somehow managed to post on it were allowed to do so because it 
furthered the agenda of the Messengers.. .. 
10) Can other characters read or copy the hunter code symbols? 
As a rule, only imbued and certain rare bystanders can truly write and 
understand the hunter code - 
to monsters and ordinary people, it appears 
to be nothing other than strange graffiti, and therefore is generally 
ignored. Should a symbol be brought directly and indisputably to their 
attention somehow, non-hunters can attempt to copy it normally, al- 
though without a hunter to voluntarily explain it to them they cannot 
understand what meaning it might have (making it impossible for them 
to catalogue or record the language for non-hunters). Many imbued 
consider their code absolutely safe; however, recent events have proven 
that it is possible - 
just extremely difficult and time-consuming - to 
teach normal people or even monsters symbols from the code. Likewise, 
even if they have a rough understanding of one symbol, they must go 
through the whole process over again in order to identify another. 
Thus, a vampire that learns to recognize one symbol cannot automati- 
cally identify a different symbol or even that it is another example of the 
hunter code unless one of the imbued brings it to her attention and teaches 
her its meaning. In addition, hunters instinctively recognize any symbols 
that were not drawn by fellow imbued or knowledgeable bystanders as 
being “wrong” or “forged” somehow, and generally treat them with accord- 
ing wariness. Even photocopies or similarly precise reproductions made by 
non-imbued still give hunters this false feeling, much to the frustration of 
would-be trap-setters. More on the hunter code, as well as examples of 
code symbols, can be found in other chapters. 
c !i
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Experience 
I 
As sentient beings, we collate the information that is presented to us in 
our daily lives and hopefully become better people for our experiences. 
During our life, we learn from the mistakes of yesterday and prepare for the 
challenges of tomorrow. 
Experience in Laws of the Reckoning is represented by giving each 
character one to three experience points at the end of each session. The 
number of points awarded is based on how well a character performed during 
the course of the story and how active a player was in the game. The 
Storyteller decides how many points each player receives upon completion 
of the session. All players receive one point - this is standard. Exceptional 
roleplayers, those who played an exceptionally memorable part, should 
receive two. Three points should be awarded to those characters who 
performed acts of incredible insight and courage, making the game truly 
memorable for everyone involved. On a normal night, each player will 
receive one experience point. 
l 
If you are a Storyteller, you should be consistent and fair in awarding 
experience. Do it in the open, and be prepared to explain the rationale for 
your decisions in accordance with the rules. If the players disagree, hear 
them out and make sure you know the whole story, then award experience 
to those who have earned it. 
Be careful, as awarding too many experience points can make characters 
too powerful too quickly and tends to give players lax attitudes toward 
working for their goals. On the other hand, awarding too few disheartens the 
players and seriously damages their sense of achievement. In no instance 
should a player get more than four Experience Traits for a single session. 
Awarding experience points, therefore, requires a delicate balance 
between satisfying players and maintaining the integrity of the game. If you 
follow the guidelines below, you probably won’t get into too much trouble. 
Automatic - Each character receives one Experience point per 
game. This represents the acquisition of common, everyday knowledge. You 
survived another night, for better or worse - congratulations. 
Roleplaying - Narrators should encourage excellent roleplaying. 
The best way to do this is to reward it tangibly with Experience. 
Leadership - 
You should award one point to each of those few players 
who had starring parts in a story. Someone who got involved, and by her 
efforts propelled the plot, deserves a third point. It should be noted that if 
more than one of the players were integral to the progression of the story, 
each of the players who showed such leadership should be awarded a point. 
Using Experience 
Experience points may be spent to purchase new Abilities and Traits, 
improving a character and giving the player a sense of satisfaction as he 
watches his character grow more potent. The following chart lists the costs 
for improving Traits and Abilities. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


New Attribute Trait - 
One Experience per Trait. 
New Ability - 
One Experience per Ability Trait. 
New Merit or Flaw/ Buy off Flaw - 
Double the cost of the Meritplaw, with 
Storyteller approval. This should not happen instantaneously; it should be 
worked into a character’s ongoing storyline. The addition of a Merit or removal 
of a Flaw should not be treated lightly. 
New Willpower - 
Three Experience per Trait. 
Buy off Negative Trait - 
Two Experience per Trait. 
New Background- Backgrounds are typically awarded as a result of gains made 
during the chronicle - 
rescuing the mayor’s daughter earns you an Ally, looting 
a bloodsucker’s house increases your Resources - 
but the Storyteller may require 
you to spend Experience to make such gains permanent. One Experience Trait 
per Background level is usually sufficient. 
New Virtue/Edges -Virtues 
and edges cannot be purchased with Experience; 
edges can only be gained when new Virtue Traits are acquired, and Virtues can 
only raised by cashing in 10 temporary Conviction Traits. i
b P 
I 
1I
1
I I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Are Yclu a Stclryteller’! 
That’s good, because this chapter is for you! This section details essential 
knowledge for all Storytellers, such as how to create a story from scratch, how to 
survive your first game, and how to manage an ongoing chronicle. You’ll learn the 
basics of establishing mood, creating believable settings and laying down the law with 
troublesome players. Experienced Storytellers with a few chronicles under their belts 
will benefit as well from learning how to integrate new players into an existing game, 
breathe new life into a faltering story and manage the relationship between the game 
and the real world. Most importantly, this chapter gives you the straight skinny on 
Storytelling - 
who should try it, how it works, why it’s hard and why it’s the most 
rewarding challenge Laws of the Reckoning has to offer. 
Taking Up the Mantle 
Storytelling is the toughest gig in roleplaying. Paradoxically, it’s also the most 
satisfying. Before you decide to plunge in with both feet, you should be aware of the 
magnitude of the challenge before you, and consider how you will address it. Many 
first-time Storytellers become quickly disenchanted because no one tells them how 
difficult the role can become. No one tells them how much of their free time being a 
Storyteller will eat up, how discouraging it can be to hear their players tell them they 
are bored with their plots, or how bothersome it can be to deal with problem players. 
But at the same time, no one ever tells them how unbelievably fulfilling the role can 
be. No one tells them about the creative thrill of taking a story idea that’s floating in 
their heads and giving it life, watching it entertain, puzzle and challenge their friends, 
and hearing their players talk about it enthusiastically for weeks or years after it’s over. 
Realize now that while many players engage in playing in a game session once a 
week or once a month, Storytellers usually deal with some aspect of an ongoing 
chronicle nearly every day. You may well find the game pervading your life in ways you 
never imagined. Over-enthusiastic players will call you late at night to talk about the 
new wrinkle in their character development. Plot elements will pop into your 
imagination at the most inconvenient moments, demanding to be recorded before 
they are forgotten. Dinner gets cold while you try to input the latest downtime 
information into your new spreadsheet software. 
Storyteller duties and responsibilities - 
real and imagined - 
will devour an 
incredible share of your free time if you permit them. Even if you excel at balancing 
your commitments and managing your time wisely, you will find yourself spending a 
greater period of time on creating and running the game than even some of your more 
I,
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


fanatical players. A part of every day will go into the game, even if you are only 
thinking about it idly while driving to work in the morning. The day of the game 
session itself will be taken up with preparing props, answering last-minute questions, 
approving character sheets and equipment cards, explaining to a player for the 19th 
time why he can’t play his ex-Navy SEAL bad-ass Avenger combat god, and putting 
final touches on the plot elements you will introduce. The day after the game session 
you will be tired, but hopefully satisfied with the night’s events. 
Being a Storyteller can do some surprising things to your blood pressure. 
Sometimes nothing will go completely as you expected or planned. Key players won’t 
show up, other players will invite their friends along and ask if it’s okay for them to play 
“just for thenight,” your Narrators will take leaveof their sensesand make inexplicable 
rulings that threaten to bring your plot crashing down around your ears, your players 
will hare off on bizarre tangents and will ignore crucial clues, and you will feel suddenly 
and painfully ill. 
The bad news is that as tiring as all this can sometimes seem, it comes with the 
territory. The good news is that it’s all manageable, and the end product can be all the 
unfamiliar ingredients to create 
wildly from your original plan, b 
y new compound. The results may differ 
t always be a bad thing - 
part of the joy 
outcome, however, each project - 
each story - 
will teach you something you didn’t 
know when youstarted, and will become another experience that will make you agood 
Storyteller. 
Every Storyteller finds her own style when crafting stories. Some are comfortable 
making thumbnail sketches of a basic plot, rounding up some players and starting to 
play immediately; others prefer to brood over theme and scope, make extensive plot 
outlines and spend hours with their players on character creation alone. While it’s 
generally true that you will be rewarded with a smoother game session if you plan and 
prepare adequately, there is no one “true” way to create and tell stories -you 
will find 
your own methods, and your own voice, when bringing your ideas to life. 
Storytellers familiar with Hunter: The Reckoning who now wish to try a Laws 
of the Reckoning game will immediately notice a significant difference between the 
two types of narration: The materials at hand are markedly different. The story 
universe of Hunter: The Reckoning is the collective fabrication of the Storyteller and 
the players - 
the settings, scenes and events of each game session exist only within 
their collective imagination. But during a Reckoning game, the story becomes flesh, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I 
I I 
1 
I I 
I 
as it were.The characters are present at aparticularphysical location, and their actions 
are, to a greater or lesser degree, actually performed as time passes normally. Perhaps 
more importantly, the Storyteller no longer has the luxury of clandestinely manipu- 
lating the entire story at a moment's notice. She can no longer describe each and every 
scene in minute detail, but must rely on a few well-chosen sentences and suggestive 
props to convey the appropriate sensory details to the players. 
Fortunately, a good Reckoning game features one important characteristic that 
is less prevalent in standard game sessions: the players will take the key ingredients the 
Storyteller provides and create many of their own stories. Together, the Storyteller 
and players realize a roleplaying experience that is more intense than most traditional 
tabletop games. 
Key Stclry Ingredients 
Assemble your story ingredients like a master chef - 
or a mad scientist, if you 
prefer - 
paying careful attention to the type, form and shape of each before adding 
it to your creation. Careless selection of important story elements has led to the early 
death of more than one game, and you must learn to separate the truly good ideas from 
those that sound good on paper. It isn't always easy to tell one from the other, but 
exercising your own best judgment is often the means to learn to distinguish between 
them. Remember that in this endeavor, experimentation will often produce results 
that are more interesting than you might expect! 
Theme 
The theme is the organizing principle of your story. It is the unifying idea of your 
story, the one-or two-word description of what your story is all about on its most basic 
level. The theme is the question your story answers throughout its course, and it is the 
means by which you will convey its ideas and messages. It is absolutely essential that 
you select a theme, or more than one, if your story is to rise above the merely common 
and become truly interesting and entertaining. 
Theme should pervade all aspects of your story - 
setting, mood, plot - 
but 
should nevertheless remain less than obvious. Themes are more effective as subtle 
suggestions rather than blatant statements. Hide the theme, cache it away within the 
tale to be discovered as the characters interact with the story itself. Don't worry about 
making the theme too subtle: It will make its presence felt soon enough through the 
story elements you introduce to the characters. 
Here are some good themes for Reckoning stories, and some thematic questions 
they raise during play: 
Love - 
How does love affect our actions, thoughts, and moods? What would we 
sacrifice for love? Can love be retrieved after it is lost? Does love endure? 
Hate - 
How does hate manifest itself in our lives? How does the seed of hate take 
root, and to what acts does it drive us? Do we really become what we hate? 
Betrayal - 
Why do we betray the people and things we love or that we are sworn 
to protect? What price does betrayal exact on our consciences and on our souls? How 
does it feel to be betrayed? 
Revenge - Is revenge better hot or cold? How does revenge distort our 
perceptions and provoke our emotions? 
Rebellion - 
What prompts us to rebel? How do we choose the targets of 
rebellion? Is rebellion always necessary to effect change? Can rebellion occur without 
violence and bloodshed? 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
The Importance of Theme and Mood 
Think about the scariest movie you know, and how you would react to 
watching it all alone on a dark night, or perhaps still with one or two equally 
scared people to scream and whimper with you. Then try imagining how scary 
it would be if you watched it in the middle of a sunny afternoon while hanging 
3ut with a bunch of your friends and cracking jokes about it at every turn. The 
difference that you have just observed is one of atmosphere, and in a live-action 
game this atmosphere is primarily composed of two elements: theme and mood. 
It bears mentioning that more so than perhaps any other of its Mind’s Eye 
Theatre brethren, Laws of the Reckoning relies a great deal on the presence of 
these two elements to keep some of the central aspects of its setting alive. 
Without these vital yet intangible ambient factors, it quickly becomes a rock 
‘em-sock ‘em game of humans with nifty superpowers and pithy quips for every 
occasion, as opposed to a game about scared but determined people trying to do 
what they feel is right in a world they are only now beginning to see for what it 
has always truly been. 
Therefore, please do not gloss over these two modest sections in favor of the 
nifty ones where we tell you not to play with knives or molest your neighbors (but 
please read those too) - 
take a look at them and try to think how you can use 
them to help tell the kind of story you want about these very human characters. 
Of course, you should not hammer the players with oppressive themes or mood- 
reinforcing plot twists at every turn- “Your mom’s dead? My mom’s dead too!” 
-but they should remain enough of a presence that the players feel them and 
react to them in their roleplaying. Theme and mood are sometimes difficult 
elements of storytelling to master, especially for those new to the trade, but with 
some time and practice you will find that the players do as much to maintain the 
atmosphere as you do, since it impacts on their outlook and everything they do. 
Morality - 
Who or what determines mortality? Who are the keepers of morals 
and ethics? Are these things even necessary? Are there morals that transcend 
individuals, cities, nations, worlds? 
Chaos - 
W h y  do things tend to fall apart? Doesn’t anything last? Is chaos 
sometimes necessary? How do we handle chaos? 
Mood is the general tone of the story, the underlying emotions you want your 
players to feel as they interact with the tale. It’s one of the most difficult story elements 
to capture, and all the more rewarding for its elusive nature. Don’t tell your players 
what the mood you are trying to convey is, but let them feel it in every aspect of your 
tale. 
Think of the mood as your story’s state of mind, and then ask yourself what 
emotions you want your story to reflect. Is the story pessimistic or hopeful? Apprehen- 
sive or confident? Angry or calm? Consider your theme and choose moods that seem 
to compliment it. The entire range of human emotion is available, and you need not 
restrict yourself to only one mood for the duration of your story. This is especially 
important to remember when crafting and running longer stories, because mood can 
be as fluid as the plot and pacing demands. You can either benefit from it, as players 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
1 
I 
I 
caught up in a particularly well-done mood will naturally drag others along with them; 
or you can be stuck with it if you’re not careful, as you try to motivate players for an 
action-oriented session when all you’ve done is hand them moody, brooding plot 
pieces to work with so far. 
Good moods for Reckoning stories: 
Paranoid - 
Also known as the “default setting” of Reckoning, this is a game 
where nothing is as it seems and no one can be trusted. Everyone is out to get 
something, often at the characters’ expense, and even apparent friends can turn out 
to have unpleasant ulterior motives. Monsters can be everywhere, and characters must 
take great precautions to avoid being the next victim. 
Desperate - 
Characters are reckless in their excitement or despair, willing to 
take greater risks in order to achieve some goal. No one should feel they can afford to 
sit back and relax as events demand drastic and extreme reactions. This mood is often 
very appropriate to hunter stories, where the characters find themselves working 
frantically to fight off some monstrous force that they have no time to really 
understand, only fight. 
Brooding - 
Everything is dark and ominous, perhaps even somber. The 
unexpressed dread hangs cloyingly in the air, filling everyone with a feeling of waiting 
for something important but unknown to happen. This mood is tough to sustain for 
long but can be very dramatic, and works especially well as a prelude to a combat- 
intense session. 
Mysterious - 
Characters are faced with a number of puzzles, mysteries, unex- 
plained events and other phenomena that beg investigation at their every turn. Solving 
one puzzle just scratches the surface of the next, and characters must keep their wits about 
them as well as their weapons if they hope to get to the bottom of what’s going on. 
Festive - 
While an exceeding rare mood to evoke in the average Reckoning 
game, even hardened hunters occasionally need to take some time off for the sake of 
their sanity, if nothing else. Reminding them that a lighter side of life still exists is an 
excellent way to give them hope for the future.. . or one more painful reminder of what 
they used to have. This is a good mood to invoke at the beginning of a new story, 
particularly when you plan to yank the rug out from under the characters’ feet soon 
after, or as a way of rewarding the group after a long series of more somber and 
dangerous sessions. 
Decadent - 
The world is decaying, falling to ruin, giving simultaneous rise to 
new vision and appalling debauchery. Characters must decide what path to tread as 
their familiar surroundings deteriorate around them - 
will a Redeemer turn his back 
on the mission and use his healing gifts as a rich man’s personal physician for the sake 
of wealth and power? Or will he continue to struggle day-to-day hunting monsters for 
the sake of a world that doesn’t seem to care? 
Exciting - 
The action never stops as the characters contend with a never- 
ending cavalcade of threats, enemies and challenges. Never allow anyone to relax long 
enough to catch his breath. This is a difficult mood to sustain without being totally 
overwhelming, but can give your players the roleplaying equivalent of a roller coaster 
ride they will never forget. 
Bitter - 
Everyone is angry about something and has their own ax to grind, and 
the imbued are certainly no exception. Characters are tense, irritable and frequently 
lash out at everyone and everything around them. Individuals can progress from close 
friends to avowed enemies swiftly, and events that seem innocuous at first often take 
on savage, angry tones. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Plrt 
Ifthe theme and mood are the story’s heart and soul, then the plot is its body. Plot 
is the progression of events that takes the story from its first game session to its last and 
every place in between. Your plot will initially be the result of the events you plan and 
introduce, but your players will also make a substantial contribution to the plot as they 
enact their characters’ efforts to achieve their nightly and long-term goals. 
Where do plots come from? Most good plots start as seeds of ideas planted in your 
imagination that germinate when you learn to tap your own creativity. Television, 
movies, magazines, novels and newspapers all provide potential plot ideas. The trick 
is learning to recognize the useful ideas and creating stories from them. It isn’t easy at 
first, and sometimes it’s harder than you’d like, but it’s something you must teach 
yourself if you want to be a successful Storyteller. 
Effective plotting means knowing your players, and in particular knowing what 
holds their interest. Players’ attention spans vary tremendously. You will be able to 
amuse some players easily for months with little more than the story equivalent of a 
ball of string. Such players are the ideal recipients of long-term plot threads and 
subplots because they will dog them for long periods of time with remarkable 
determination. Other players, however, are more focused on immediate concerns and 
require a new ball of string every game session, and sometimes more than once in the 
same session, lest they grow bored very quickly. For these players, any plot that endures 
beyond one or two game sessions becomes a hopeless, confusing tangle of unwanted 
detail. You will want to offer plots and introduce plot threads that cater to both player 
types, a demanding but necessary task to provide something for everyone to enjoy. 
Some plots, no matter how carefully planned, won’t take you where you intended 
to go. The plot will become complicated surprisingly often, especially when charac- 
ters’ individual schemes clash. You will recognize when this happens by the confusion 
it generates. Don’t panic. Confusion of this sort is both a help and a hindrance. 
Confusion lures and attracts those players who like to be involved in as many plots as 
possible. Other players react badly to confusion, and will cease to participate when a 
plot gets too complex for them to unravel. Just try to make sure that the story balances 
the interests of both types of people, and you should do all right. 
Remember, plots need not be torturously complex to pique the interest of your 
players: Often the best plots are those that are simple frameworks to which you and 
your players can attach more complex ideas as the story proceeds. Consider these basic 
plot summaries and where they could lead your story: 
Under New Management -A new monster has begun gathering power in the 
city, destroying any supernatural opposition but also causing more destruction and loss 
of innocent life than its predecessors did. From the looks of it, the imbued would have 
even less of a chance than normal at taking out this new threat alone, which leaves 
themwithsome unpleasantquestions. Do they try to tackle the monster alone anyway, 
despite the odds? Do they wait and see if the creatures will destroy each other? Or do 
they do the unthinkable and approach some of the monsters with an offer to join forces 
against this mutual threat? 
A Finer World -The city shakes with the arrival of a powerful Redeemer and 
his companions, who announce that they have a revolutionary plan to improve 
ordinary life in the city as well as rid it of evil supernatural taint. His ideas seem to have 
great merit and early results are positive, but his plan also involves working with a 
number of “good” creatures to help destroy their wicked brethren. It also means that 
the imbued will have to expose at least some of their new lives to the public, ifnot their 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


i 
I 
i 
i 
f 
I 
actual abilities. He assures them that the creatures can be trusted and that their own 
public face will be minimal, but can the hunters be so sure? Do they go along with the 
plan and hope for the best, or do they go against it and risk possibly wrecking a real 
chance at making a difference? Will their enemies use knowledge of their real 
identities against them? What are their powers for, if not to help other people who 
need it? 
Born In Fire -Characters 
in this story are not imbued while facing just one or 
two creatures, but in response to a full-scale supernatural war raging behind the altered 
headlines and glossed-over misdeeds the public is aware of. Worse still, an incautious 
attack by one of the characters or another of the city’s imbued has brought their 
existence to the attention of both sides, and each believes that the hunters are just one 
more of the enemy’s pawns to eliminate. There’s no room for mistakes in this scenario: 
the hunters must learn to cope with their new existence fast and organize themselves 
even faster if they have a hope ofstaying alive, let alone punishing the creatures behind 
this massive shadow war. Teamwork is at apremium, as are combat andreconnaissance 
skills, though more social or cerebral hunters may still have a role in convincing some 
of the enemy that they’re not the real threat or in planning long-term strategy. 
All Over the World - 
Every once in a while it’s good to remind the characters 
that things are happening outside their little sphere of influence, either by bringing in 
some foreign monsters (perhaps with foreign hunters hot on their heels) or by starting 
a storyline that will lead the characters away from their usual stomping grounds. 
Whether it’s as relatively close as the next town over or as removed as halfway around 
the world, how the hunters view their obligation (or lack thereof) to problems 
happening in distant locales or how territorial they become about problems that wind 
up on their doorstep all can provide excellent material for examining their role in the 
world they’ve inherited. If nothing else, outside villains or distant locations shake 
players up and force them to deal with brand new threats rather than the more familiar 
perils they’ve started learning about back home. 
American Dreams - 
Not all stories are about earth-shaking monsters and 
deadly showdowns; some are much more complicated than that. In this story, a 
formerly seedy and crime-ridden neighborhood begins a sudden and mysterious 
turnaround, becoming a thriving area in matter of months. Investigation reveals that 
the neighborhood has come under the protection of a monster determined to restore 
its former neighborhood to the happy place it remembers from its youth. Life has 
definitely improved for the residents of this formerly hopeless location, but at a price 
- 
criminals and other bad elements who interfere with the creature’s ideal of a 
pleasant neighborhood are mangled or even executed. Are the creature’s tactics really 
much different than their own? Can the hunters remove the monster’s presence 
without causing the area to slide back to ruin? Should it be removed at all? 
Times Past -This 
story switches gears to explore the origins of the imbued. A 
strange but oddly compelling message from a cryptic source (an eccentric Visionary, 
a Hermit or even a monster) seems to indicate that the imbued have been around far 
longer than is commonly assumed. To support this claim, the source displays fragments 
of a purportedly ancient text engraved with symbols from the hunter code and asks for 
assistance in locating other relics, perhaps even speaking to a monster with expert 
knowledge (or personal experience) of history. Do the hunters abandon their regular 
duties to help in this admittedly wildly speculative endeavor?Or is it all some elaborate 
ruse on the part of the monsters? 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
1 
1 
1 
1 
I 
I 
1 i 
Divided We Fall- It was bound to happen sooner or later- 
two or more groups 
of imbued are at each other’s throats over some issue, and tensions are rising rapidly. 
Violence may even break out if the matter isn’t settled soon, but tempers have been 
sparked and egos have been damaged, which means sorting out the truth of the matter 
or soothing both sides will be adifficult process. If the characters are involved, do they 
support their side without question, or are they trying to compromise? If the characters 
aren’t directly involved, what are they doing to defuse the situation? Are they? Can 
hunters be much better than the creatures they hunt if they wind up squabbling like 
this? 
Setting 
The setting of your story is as much a character as the individuals who populate 
it. Before choosing your setting, consider your theme and mood. Are there settings that 
will enhance or detract from them? It’s difficult to convey a brooding or somber mood 
when your setting is a circus or a car wash. 
Setting your story in familiar territory is a good option. It’s fun to pretend that 
your hometown might have some kind of Supernatural presence hiding behind those 
same store fronts and identical houses. Trying to imagine what it would be like to hunt 
those supernatural forces can be even more interesting; how would you try to off a 
group of rots in the cemetery across from nosy old Mr. Allen’s place without having 
him call the cops? A good place to start is by obtaining some accurate information 
about your city history, government and municipal services, and pass them through 
the Gothic-punk filter. Then choose some physical locations in the area that you want 
to replicate in the game. The advantage to setting your story in your own backyard is 
that you’ll have minimal research to complete before you can begin playing; the 
disadvantage is that your players might know your city as well, or better than, you do. 
Remember though, that your stories needn’t always be restricted to familiar 
stomping grounds - 
there’s only so many times you can fight zombies in back of the 
high school before it starts to feel ho-hum. Feel free to shake things up every once in 
a while - 
try another city, another side of town, even a distant foreign country. 
Libraries, bookstores and online sources will yield a wealth of information on nearly 
any municipality of any size, include population figures, government structures and 
handy maps. Just remember that you have to make the players feel as though they’ve 
really been transported to, say, an old hunting lodge in Germany as part of an exciting 
chase, rather than simply presenting them the same old location and props and giving 
all your Narrator characters bad German accents. 
Pacing 
The value ofpacing becomes clear when you accept, as you must, the Storyteller’s 
axiom that nothing will go exactly as planned. Characters will sometimes miss vital 
clues for no apparent good reason and then spend the remainder of the evening 
scratching their heads as the session drags on to an unnaturally late hour. Characters 
will also from time to time cooperate with one another in a frighteningly efficient 
manner, solving all the puzzles and conundrums that you thought would take them the 
entire night to understand in mere moments. More occasionally the players will feel 
completely overwhelmed by information and will be so uncertain of what to do next 
that they will cease taking an active role in the story altogether. 
You can mitigate, if not avoid, these eventualities by giving due thought to your 
stories’ pacing. Try to decide at what rate the story should progress before the game 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I 
i 
I 
t I 
session starts. Fast-paced games throw new situations at the characters throughout the 
night, forcing them to deal with each new challenge as it presents itself and leaving 
them little time to assess the big picture before the night is done. Slower-paced games 
lend themselves more to extended communications between characters, not to 
mention more subtle intrigues and plots. You may want to vary the tempo of a game, 
starting slowly and getting faster as the session progresses, or vice versa. 
You can help yourself pace stories more successfully by learning to narrate 
spontaneously. That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t prepare adequately for game sessions, 
but rather that you should prepare yourself for the necessity of providing plot 
information on the fly. Characters will often ask questions for which you don’t have 
a prepared answer, but which nevertheless deserve a response in order to keep the 
action flowing. Try to give answers that satisfy the characters’ need for information but 
which will also advance with-or 
at least not contradict- 
your plot. An unexpected 
lull in the game’s activity can be the perfect opportunity to introduce a new plot thread 
that you cleverly prepared for just such an occasion. Alternately, you can reintroduce 
a plotline that the characters thought resolved in order to keep the game session going 
without a break in the action. 
Although off-the-cuff Storytelling is essential to any successful game, good 
pacing is roughly equal parts planning and improvisation. Start eachnight’s game with 
at least an idea of the speed at which you want events to occur and where you think 
the story will go. Even if it doesn’t get there because something unexpected happens, 
you’ll be prepared to deal with it if you give adequate thought to pacing. Knowing the 
general direction in which the story is headed helps you recognize when the pace is 
becoming too fast or too slow, and gives you clues about how to adjust it in ways that 
best suit your players and plot. You must be sensitive to the ebb and flow of the story, 
watching carefully for periods of too much inactivity or hopeless chaos. 
Forced to choose between these extremes - 
too fast or too slow - 
opt for too 
fast. Stories with a pace that is too slow lead to player boredom and frustration more 
frequently than the former. Prepare a couple of plot threads in advance that you can 
introduce in case the story starts to slow unexpectedly. These can be as simple as a 
character’s spouse or children accidentally overhearing them discussing details of the 
hunt, or as complex as the arrival of a hunting group the players have never met before, 
wounded and seeking assistance against some previously unknown threat. If you’re 
really in doubt about what to do in order to fix the pacing, ask your players what their 
characters want to do next. Listen carefully to their answers and try to tailor your 
responses appropriately. This tactic gives you room to breathe and think, and more 
importantly gives you a sense of why the action has fallen off. 
Stcry Ccnsideraticns 
The story considerations will generally be easier for you to pin down than the key 
ingredients, mostly because their impact on the story is less immediate. If you do your 
homework and build your stories with due care, you’ll find these story elements fall into 
place more easily. 
Scale 
The scale of your story is its relative size, the number of players who want to play. 
You can run stories for as few as two players or as many as 200, but stories for 20 to 30 
players are the most common. The scale of many stories is often predetermined by the 
number of players involved when you begin, but it can and will change. Players bring 
i
b Pi
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


their friends, spouses and significant others into the game, and some players will drop 
out for various reasons. This doesn’t mean that your story’s scale is at the mercy of 
chance - 
you can influence it in either direction. Actively recruiting more players 
will increase the scale, and getting rid of some players will decrease it. Some 
Storytellers establish a player cap, which is the maximum number of players they will 
allow to participate in any given story, or do their game by invitation only, carefully 
selecting the players they want for any number of different reasons. The primary scale 
considerations should be the number of players you can comfortably handle, and the 
planned duration of your chronicle. 
Scale can get out of hand if you are the only Storyteller and the number ofplayers 
grows too rapidly or becomes too large. When you see this occurring, get some help. 
If you don’t, your game and players will suffer as you try to handle all the Storyteller 
responsibilities by yourself. Ask for some volunteers from among your players and 
make them your Narrators (see below). A good rule of thumb is one Narrator for every 
10 players, depending on your group dynamic. Some very large games have several 
Storytellers, each in charge of a different aspect of the game (main plot, subplots, 
Influences, antagonists, etc.). Remember that the larger your scale, the more broad 
and encompassing your plot should be in order to allow every player the potential to 
become involved. 
Give some special thought to scale if you are running a plot that will require many 
track. Stories for 
that will inevitabl 
gain players at a rate faster thanianticipated? If the 
only one character, think about whit you will do if that 
character’s player is suddenly obligated to leave the game, or if that character dies 
unexpectedly before the story’s climax. Planning a few “escape routes” for your long- 
term plots will help you handle scale changes in stride. 
Scope 
Your story’s scope describes the range of possibility for character action and 
impact - 
essentially, it’s what is at stake in your story. Are you telling a low-key tale 
wherein the characters are concerned primarily with their own personal agendas? Or 
are you planning to give the characters the chance to save an entire city from some dire 
supernatural threat? Scale can modify your story’s scope to adegree - 
it’s easier to tell 
the story of an entire city of imbued if one has enough players to represent them - 
but 
in the end the stakes can be as big or small as you want. 
Shorter stories often work better with correspondingly narrower scopes, but 
extended chronicles can handle wide variations in scope. The key for long-range stories 
is balance: Vary the scope of your games from story to story to give your players variety 
and a sense that their characters exist in an active setting. Saving the world story after 
story grows tiresome, as does fighting continuously between different teams over what 
is the best way to conduct the hunt, so change the value of story consequences and 
rewards periodically to keep things from stagnating. This is especially true if any of your 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
I ! I 
i i 
I 
players are involved in such long-term plots as hunting an ancient creature, seeking the 
nature of the Heralds or even searching for their true love. The scope of the story is 
already established at a more personal level for these characters, and their stake in the 
overarching plot will increase or diminish as it affects their agenda. 
Player input 
One of the simplest, but most often overlooked, things you can do to prepare for 
a new story is to ask your players what they want. Do not underestimate the value that 
soliciting player feedback can have on your story’s success! All too often a Storyteller 
conceives what he believes is a fabulous new idea for a chronicle, busies himself with 
many hours of detailed preparations, and presents it to his players, only to find they are 
not interested in that particular type of story. 
Key questions to ask your players before embarking on a new Storytelling effort: 
What kind of story would you like to play in - 
do you prefer political intrigue, 
What sorts of plots would you like to see in the story? 
What power level should the story have - 
should all the players be of roughly 
What should take precedence - 
the story, the characters or the rules? 
mystery-solving, personal interaction or combat and mayhem? 
equivalent power and experience, or should they be of varying power levels? 
T’he Stages 
Good stories have definitive stages - 
opening, climax and denouement. These 
are your story milestones, the markers which tell you where your players are in the story 
and what should happen to them next. 
Opening 
Lavish plenty of attention and detail on the opening of your story! Too many 
Mind’s Eye Theatre stories start with all the characters sitting or standing around in 
a room, with no exploration of how they got there or why they are together. 
Particularly in the world of the imbued, such a gathering is unlikely to say the least, 
and can quickly ruin the sense of isolation and paranoia that haunt even experienced 
imbued by presenting them with a veritable legion of potential allies against the 
darkness. If you do want to put all the hunters in one place, think it out. Hard. Set the 
time, place and conditions of the opening scene by distributing common information 
that every character knows before the game begins. Are the characters all present 
because each received an anonymous e-mail on hunter-net? Are they gathered by the 
work of some more experienced Visionary, who wants to convert them to his cause? 
Are they there by mutual agreement to confer how their separate teams can tackle a 
larger threat? However sketchy, a briefing will allow your players to plunge directly 
into the story right away and begin roleplaying at once. 
Climax 
When the characters have discovered all they need to know to face final 
revelation, solve the key mystery or otherwise resolve the main plot, the story is at its 
climax. This is your story’s high point, when the end toward which your players and 
their characters have been striving is in sight, and therefore the tension will be at its 
highest. If the opening was sufficiently intriguing and the players were enthusiastic, 
you need do little to help the story reach its climax. But if the players are confused or 
missed vital clues, you or your Narrators may find it necessary to take a more direct 
hand in guiding the action to its conclusion, perhaps by distributing more clues or 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


somehow reminding characters of information they should recall. If you find that you 
must interfere in order to begin the climax, try to do so in such a way that does not rob 
the players of the joy and satisfaction of accomplishment - 
being handed a victory 
never fails to feel forced and hollow to the players. 
Denouement 
The story winds down after its climax. The excitement and tension abates, and 
all the story pieces (most of them, at least) come together at last and form an 
identifiable, coherent whole. Try to manage the resolution so that your players feel 
they have accomplished something but are still interested in future stories. Just 
because the story is over doesn’t necessarily mean the players learned all there was to 
learn about the main plot - 
sometimes just discovering another piece of the bigger 
puzzle gives the players sufficient motivation to continue. 
You will find that your players will often want to gather immediately after the 
game session ends, to talk about the game and plan for future sessions. Reckoning 
players usually see only a few pieces of the story each time they play, and it’s fun for 
them to learn more about the big picture. Players enjoy relating the night’s events from 
their own points of view, and hearing the other players’ version of events, too. You 
should keep one ear open at these wrap-up gatherings, both for news of exceptional 
roleplaying and potential plot complications. 
Something for Everyone 
The best stories are collaborative efforts between players and Storyteller; the 
Storyteller provides the players with an interesting backdrop and framework, and the 
players build on it. You must give your players ample materials with which to do their 
part, however, or they will rapidly grow bored with the story. Try to make your major 
plots broad enough in their appeal that they will interest nearly every player in the 
story, perhaps by giving them a vested interest in the outcome. Even if you are able to 
do this for most of your players, you may find that it’s difficult to shoehorn some 
characters into a specific plot. When that happens, try to develop a minor plot or 
subplot for them instead. 
Some of the tools you can use to ensure that all characters get something to do 
are character histories and subplots. 
Blast from the bast 
All characters in your story have pasts, which can prove an essential Storytelling 
aid. Encourage -no, 
insist that your players submit character histories to you along 
with copies of their character sheets. These can be narrative descriptions of a 
character’s past experiences, a simple timeline or any other format that adequately 
defines a character’s history. The character history is one of the most important tools 
in your Storyteller kit. All too often, a Storyteller who is fresh out of ideas for plots and 
subplots need look no further than these character backgrounds for the perfect story 
thread. Did a now upright hunting team leader at one time work for the Mafia? Have 
his former associates show up looking to collect on an old favor or debt, and watch how 
his teammates react to their new perception of their leader. Did another hunter destroy 
some powerful menace during his imbuing? Have its old allies show up to make trouble 
when the character least expects it. Character backgrounds will be lousy with ex- 
lovers, past misdeeds, hidden indiscretions, mortal enemies and personal quests, and 
all make great subplots and plot threads. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 I I 
I 
i 
I 
Main blots 
The central plot of your story is what brings your characters together and gives 
them a reason to interact. It should therefore be broad-based in its impact, affecting 
all characters in some way. While every character need not participate in the main 
plot, they should at the very least be aware of it and should consider its potential to 
change their environment and circumstances. 
Take, for example, a plot that concerns the gradual rising of some great 
supernatural menace and the effect it has on the characters’ locale. More combat- 
based teams might notice an increasing amount of activity as they find themselves 
battling more powerful and organized monsters as the creature’s minions work to make 
room for their master. Other hunters more concerned with the mysteries of their new 
condition might receive a cryptic message from a Hermit or other bizarre source 
warning them of the threat, leading them to dig up old legends and any other 
information they can get their hands on to puzzle out what they’re up against and how 
to deal with it. Teams more sympathetic to the monsters might be approached by a 
former minion having second thoughts, who offers to help the characters with what 
he knows, but only if they can help him find atonement for his past sins (no easy task). 
In this way a clever Storyteller can weave a story for each type of player and team, 
without leaning too far in any one group’s direction over another, and making sure 
each team feels they have a valuable part to contribute to the whole. 
Just be careful of what has been dubbed “Hardy Boys Syndrome,” in which it 
always turns out that - 
surprise! - 
all of the plotlines the different hunting teams 
were involved with are actually intimately related, so that the outcome of every story 
arc has the players teaming up to face one big threat together. Do this too many times, 
and players will come to expect it to such a degree that it will rob any of the mystery 
or tension from your story, since they already know where you’re heading with it. 
Rather, save it for when it’s truly needed, and don’t hesitate to do your best to keep the 
different teams in the dark about it when you actually do decide to go ahead with such 
an interlocking web of stories - 
the longer it takes them to realize the connections, 
the more exciting and original the outcome will seem. 
Of course, occasionally a player or group of players will remain deliberately ignorant 
of the main plot’s existence, refusing to acknowledge it even if it bites them on the rear. 
Such players deserve no special dispensation, and should suffer the consequences of their 
intentional aloofness; it’s one thing to be so heavy-handed that you’re basically leading 
the players around by the nose, but it’s quite another for players to repeatedly refuse the 
well-intentioned plot hooks you take the trouble to prepare for them. 
Subplots 
Subplots are nearly as important to the success of your story as the main plot itself. 
They are minor events and activities, triumphs and tragedies, that fill the hunter’s 
nightly existence. It isn’t necessary to create a separate subplot for each player 
character; often the same subplot can involve several characters simultaneously, 
particularly if your players are enthusiastic about the game. Strongly motivated 
characters will create their own subplots regularly anyway, and will drag others into 
these situations without any prodding or help from you! 
Some characters just won’t be interested in the main plot. Their goals might be 
too far removed from the mainstory action, or their motivations might not allow them 
to be sidetracked by what everyone else is doing. This may seem like a problem, but 
it’s actually an opportunity. Character goals and motivations can be the very essence 
i
I
b !
I 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


of great subplots, and can lead eventually to broader, more encompassing stories. 
You’ll discover that subplots are also an effective means of dropping a new character 
into an existing story; just give the newcomer a connection with one or more of the 
existing characters, and let the sparks begin to fly. Remember: Conflict is your friend! 
It makes the best subplots and is relatively easy to establish. 
When running long-term stories, be especially alert for subplots that take on lives 
of their own and threaten to become major plots, engulfing many characters and 
dominating entire game sessions. This won’t necessarily derail your own story. Look 
on it as an opportunity. You might even be grateful to your players on occasion for this 
type of enterprising behavior, because it relieves you of some of the solitary burden of 
creating stories. For example, it’s not uncommon for at least one character in an 
extended chronicle to start losing her grip and sliding into madness, potentially 
becoming a force ofchaos and betrayal in the story (or anopportunity for some intense, 
soul-saving roleplaying). This might seem an inconvenience or a threat to your own 
plots, but actually it’s a chance for some great character development and dramatic 
action. Work with the player to make her character’s spiraling descent into madness 
a thrilling story. Your plots will still be there when the other characters finish dealing 
with this problem. 
Character Relaticns 
The game can’t happen if the characters don’t interact with one another. The quickest 
route to story failure is to create a situation in which the characters don’t wish, or don’t have 
adequate reason, to interact. This is not to say that the characters must cooperate and get 
along all the time: Conflict is avital and necessarypart ofgood stories! Nonetheless yourstory 
will fizzle if too many charactersremaincompletely solitary, or hoard all the information they 
discover. Sometimes this occurs because players lack direction and are confused about what 
they want to do next. You can plan for this eventuality and establish good and clear reasons 
for characters to interact with one another. 
Character backgrounds are the ideal place to begin planning for character 
interaction. Here’s an easy one: Were two characters imbued at the same time?Thar’s 
not only anatural reason for character interaction, but the makings of asubplot as well. 
Try fabricating rumor and gossip, or dropping hints about something suspicious 
happening in the vicinity that will pique character interest and coax them to interact. 
Even the most solitary hunter might be inclined to try a team effort if it looks like 
there’s a monster beyond his ability to deal with in his neighborhood, after all. If 
despite your best efforts the characters still refuse to interact, you may have a genuine 
problem: Your players may be too fearful of losing to risk anything by engaging in 
character relations (see “Trouble,” below). Alternately, some of them may stubbornly 
insist on being “realistic” (read: difficult) about their character interactions, ignoring 
characters they don’t already know or actively going out of their way to give them grief, 
under the guise of roleplaying their suspicion of strangers correctly. 
Creating the Setting 
The story’s setting will have an immediate, tangible impact on its tone and mood, 
and will influence the characters’ actions from the very first game session. Your plot 
can be dramatically enhanced or encumbered by your choice of setting and how you 
detail it, so don’t skimp on this element of the story. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Finding Game Iccaticns 
The ideal location for any story will have multiple rooms or areas where 
characters can meet privately, and a more central meeting area large enough to hold 
all the characters at once. It will also need to be relatively private, so that your players 
won’t disturb anyone and will not be disturbed in turn. Examples of good story 
locations are parks, dorm lounges, apartment complex clubhouses, museums, restau- 
rant meeting rooms, office board rooms, night clubs, conventions and shopping malls. 
The more public the location, however, the more care you must take not to disturb or 
offend non-players with your choice of costumes, props, language and behavior. 
Obtain explicit permission before utilizing any type of private property, and 
maintain contact with local law enforcement authorities if your story will occur in 
view of the public eye. Use good judgment when dealing with any non-players who 
approach your game and are curious about what is going on; take the time to explain 
exactly what you are doing, but don’t invite non-players to participate in the game at 
this point. Consider printing up some inexpensive business cards to offer passers-by 
who are genuinely curious and encourage them to contact you later, when you can 
speak with them at leisure. 
Where Are We? 
Take some time to think about what the setting must be like fromyour characters’ 
point of view. What’s its history? What are its secrets? Who are the major movers and 
shakers in the area, imbued, mundane or supernatural? Is it a threatening place where 
the characters will face danger every night, or is it a peaceful, placid locale in which 
the characters generally have the upper hand? Choose locations that complement 
your theme and mood whenever possible. If you want to invoke a brooding, somber 
mood as you weave a tale about the price of power, you shouldn’t choose the front room 
of a pizza parlor, no matter how inexpensive or centrally located it might be. After 
choosing your location, supply your characters with a general map of the location, 
whether it’s an entire city or a single building within a metropolis. This will give them 
a better idea of the physical location and help them visualize the setting as they play. 
Disasters Waiting tc Happen 
A very useful Storytelling technique is to plant a few incendiary devices within the 
story backdrop before the story even begins. These story “land mines” go off only if 
characters meet predetermined criteria known only to you. For example, you decide 
when you create the story that the local mayor is actually a pawn of some supernatural 
creature, and keeps a watchful eye out for any reports of activity dealing with other 
monsters (or those that hunt them). If the characters try to take their concerns to anyone 
in authority or even use Politics Influence that passes through the mayor’s office, the 
mayor will immediately do her best to track down everything she can on them and relate 
the information back to her master. The mayor is a “time bomb” planted in the story, but 
its clock does not start unless the characters do something to activate it. 
Stage Business 
In and out of the Box 
Devote time and attention to your setting and the stage on which it occurs. Your 
story’s setting should not be a cardboard stage that exists only when your players tread 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


-I 
upon it. Make it a vibrant, active part ofthe story that lives and breathes even without 
the characters’ conscious presence. 
Think about what happens during any given 24-hour period in any community. 
People are born and die; they transact business; they obtain goods and services; they 
construct new buildings and tear old ones down; they commit crimes and infidelities; 
they end relationships and begin new ones; and they embark on hundreds of minor 
projects and enterprises that, when combined, make up their daily and nightly lives. 
What happens in your setting when the characters go back to their homes after a night 
out hunting? How might this be reflected in the world around them when they next 
meet? Your setting should reflect this ebb and flow of normal life, so that your 
characters will know and understand that they live in a place that is not static, but that 
is as active as they are, not to mention have a sense of the normal lives they once had 
(if only by observing them afar). 
Rmbianse 
This is a game about hunters. Once ordinary people with normal lives, they now 
dwell in a world that’s still remarkably like our own but with differences both large and 
small. This is the Gothic-punk environment, and establishing its look and feel in your 
game can be a challenge, but will aid your story immeasurably. Lighting, music and 
stage dressing will all help bring your story and scenes to life and make it all the more 
real for your players. 
Cighting 
Once they discover the truth of the existence of monsters, many imbued find 
themselves living nocturnal lives themselves, a world full of shadowed rooms, dark 
comers and unlit alleys. Accordingly, many sessions will take place at night in-game, 
regardless of the actual time out of game. If this is a necessity, there are a few ways to 
help simulate such shadowy places at a minimum of time and expense. Turn out some 
of the lights in your game locations, but don’t make the room pitch black - 
doing so 
risks the safety of the participants. Candles are ideal for creating the proper ambiance, 
but most game sites won’t permit real fire, with good reason. You can replicate firelight 
with electric holiday candles, or regular light bulbs masked by colored plastic screens 
(called gels). Strings of miniature lights can also replicate shadowy spaces, but give you 
enough light to play safely. 
Avoid bright, direct lighting, as this brings the mundane world into sharp focus. 
Try replacing white lights with lower wattage, softer bulbs. You can even use 
multicolored lights to help create mood and atmosphere. A red light bathing one 
corner of a room helps convey an angry, tense mood, while blue light often indicates 
cooler, more subdued emotions. Strobe lights and black lights both work well to 
convey the energy and appearance of a nightclub, while phosphorescent glow sticks 
make great light sources for sewers (and the red ones give off a glow that’s reminiscent 
offirelight). If you can’t turn off some of the lights or replace them with dimmer bulbs, 
try draping a screen of dark cloth over them to cut down the direct light, being careful 
not to create a fire hazard. 
Of course, sessions can take place during the day as well - 
it is a time when the 
imbued are safe from the direct actions of many monsters (though certainly not all), 
and thus can be ideal for all kinds of research, scouting or even daylight raids. Creating 
a daytime atmosphere is relatively easy -use 
bright yellow (not white) lights, throw 
open windows for some fresh air if possible, and otherwise try to illuminate as much 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


of the play area as possible - 
that way if you have to time shift to night later on in the 
session, it will be even more of an appreciable change in atmosphere because of it. 
Music 
Consider the emotional messages you want to send with eachstory session. Music 
can help you create these feelings, underscoring the sensations of fear, anger, love or 
joy that you’re trying to bring into the game. Bring a variety of music to your games 
so that you can change it to reflect your story’s changing moods, and tailor the music 
volume to the current story environment. Keep the volume at a background level 
when your players are trying to interact -don’t force them to compete with the music. 
Try not to let the music overpower your settings. Your choice of music should suggest 
the mood, not dictate it. Movie soundtracks are ideal for many stories because they 
have few distracting lyrics and usually have multiple tracks that convey the changing 
moods and scenes of the film. Try classical music or light jazz to evoke a more 
sophisticated atmosphere, or techno and dance to establish a higher energy level. 
Gregorian chants and plainsong create a feeling of antiquity, while New Age music 
can evoke a mysterious and ethereal atmosphere. 
P!YDS 
Consider props as one of your final touches. They are one of the last details needed 
to make your story believable, and they fall into two categories: stage props and 
personal props. 
Stage Props 
Stage props are those pieces of set dressing that decorate your game location to 
suggest the fictional locale where the story takes place. Whether set in a library or the 
sewers, you need some props to help bring the game to life. Good story props include 
furniture, works of art (especially art created by your players), costume jewelry, old 
clothes, legal documents, electronic bits and pieces from appliances that no longer 
function, scrolls, pieces of old Halloween costumes and unidentifiable oddments from 
your basement and attic. The limitations on props include resources, space, portability 
and storage. 
You don’t need to spend a fortune on props. You’ll find many excellent pieces of 
set dressing in your own home, in discount or second-hand shops, and you can easily 
make others. They needn’t be lavish - 
props shouldn’t compete with your story for 
the players’ attention. Props that suggest an object or setting are more than adequate 
in conveying the general idea of the actual object. Good players will treat these things 
as the genuine objects while in character, and will use their imaginations to fill in the 
blanks. For example, a brightly colored blanket, a low table and a few stuffed animals 
can quickly make a child’s bedroom; it needs only your descriptive narration to provide 
the necessary imagery. If your game seems short on stage props, enlist the help of your 
players in finding some suitable pieces, or get together and build a few simple props 
together. 
Make sure your stage props are appropriate to the space in which you will use 
them. A great-looking wooden chest will be lost if you stick in the far comer ofa school 
auditorium. Likewise stacks of cardboard boxes and packing crates might be great for 
an abandoned warehouse, but they’re less useful if they leave no playing room for the 
characters to move around in. Smaller props might require some special lighting to 
make them noticeable among the other elements of your game, while larger props will 
tend to dominate scenes and even overpower them if they are too large. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Props small and large don’t find their way to the game site by themselves. Before 
you invest in any huge or awkward stage props, consider how you will get them from 
their storage place to the game and back. Smaller props can present the same problem 
if you have many boxes of them or if some of them are fragile. Check with the owners 
of your game site about prop storage. You might be able to arrange to store your props 
at the site itself provided that you meet the site’s safety and cleanliness requirements. 
If you can’t store your props where you game, however, you’re going to have to think 
about where to put them when the story ends for the night. Unless you have a huge 
storage area in your own living space, consider dividing up the props and entrusting 
some of them to players for transportation and safekeeping. The drawback to sharing 
prop storage is that a player may forget to bring a prop you need to the game; the benefit 
is that this will keep your home from looking like a yard sale. 
Personal Props 
More than costumes, personal props help identify particular characters or 
Narrator characters. Hats, c 
es, long coats, cell phones, scarves, old medals, 
laptops, briefcases, stethosc 
pilots, lab coats and jewelry all help give 
characters a distinctive appearance. The number one rule about personal props is: 
They must be safe. Never allow a player orNarrator to carry anything that might injure 
another person, and never permit any 
prop weapons in the game. Doing so is 
an invitation to disater, and is the ha 
of a foolish and immature Storyteller. 
Economy is often a primary cotlsiderathon in securing personal props. Many 
people just don’t have the resoutces to spend on lavish costumes and brand new 
accessories they will use only for their games. Lead your players on a props scavenger 
hunt around your community, hitting discount stores, second-hand shops, 
and antique stores. The hunt for good personal props is continuous - 
mos 
your prop sea 
regular stop in 
Supernatural Powers 
As odd as it may seem, an often-overlooked thing for Storytellers to try to evoke 
with stage properties and/or special effects are Supernatural powers. Too often, the 
inclusion of supernatural powers becomes simply a matter of a Narrator stating things 
eed” or “Out of game, everyone hears a 
me like Laws of the Reckoning, this is 
often a wasted chance to help undersc 
mysterious and powerful nature of the 
Supernatural world that the hunters find themselves up against, particularly when 
there are all manner of simple tricks that can be used tw help simulate supernatural 
powers and give players a feeling that something truly paranormal is going on. 
Obviously, lighting and sound can go a long way to helping simulate supernatural 
powers -projecting a bright light behind a creature creates a literal aura around it that 
suggests great power and otherworldliness, while having actual sound effects of things 
like thunderstorms or wailing voices does a lot more for game atmosphere than simply 
describing such effects and illusions to the players. Likewise, finding or creating 
representations of different powers can do a lot to enhance the player’s roleplaying 
experience, such as taping a picture of the illusionary person to the wall instead of 
simply having an index card stating what the players see, and having a Narrator use 
a string of electric lights to simulate a magical barrier frees him from constantly 
answering questions about where the boundary of the barrier is and who or what is 
inside it. Even afew minutes ofsimple preparation and basic prop and stage techniques 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


can go a long way toward helping the players feel as though they’re really up against 
something strange and unknown. 
Indeed, if used correctly after a while players come to associate particular sights 
or sounds with the cues you have designed, making it easier and more atmospheric to 
introduce such powers rather than making constant out of game announcements. Just 
make sure that any effects or props you use to simulate supernatural powers do not 
inadvertently overshadow or trivialize the effect you are trying to achieve - 
it’s 
generally better to describe the hellish imp on your shoulder than try to use a stuffed 
animal to represent it, for example - 
and that you do not overuse such effects to the 
point that players come to anticipate every supernatural power to be punctuated with 
a thunderclap or other stock effects. 
Of course, you can always stick to the tried-and-true descriptive method if you 
like - 
this is a game based on the “mind’s eye,” after all, and so leaving most or all of 
the effects for the players to imagine is perfectly fine. Don’t forget to be as descriptive 
and atmospheric as possible when doing so, however - 
don’t just blandly state “You 
see an illusion of a man” when you could say “You see what looks like an ordinary man 
standing in the middle of the room, but his form seems to waver like a television picture 
slightly out of focus, and when you look closely you realize you can see right through 
him.” After all, the imbued have been immersed in a whole new world-don’t 
hesitate 
to keep things as mysterious as you want while making them as descriptive as possible. 
All that having been said, here are some additional suggestions for ways to stage/ 
simulate “common” supernatural powers to make them especially memorable for your 
players: 
Strength: Of course, lifting heavy items (actually foam replicas) or bashing 
through supposedly solid walls of painted paper or foam bricks are time-honored ways 
to signify supernatural strength, but those aren’t the only ones. Consider adding a rule 
that for each level of supernatural strength a creature possesses, they knock anyone 
they strike in melee or brawling combat one step backward, perhaps even if they don’t 
inflict damage. 
Speed: Take full advantage of the rule of steps in combat when a creature with 
supernatural speed takes its action- 
thus, a creature with three attacks per round can 
take up to nine steps in a single turn, compared to a normal person’s measly three. Use 
these extra steps to strike and then maneuver out of reach, put other characters in 
between the monster and its would-be attacker or otherwise keep the hunters off- 
balance. As an added bonus, you can have players close their eyes when the creature 
takes its actions (this is also agood trick for invisibility or teleportation), and only open 
them in order to resolve a test with the creature. That way, at the beginning of the next 
turn the players are forced to look around frantically to see where the super-fast 
creature moved and what it did to their friends during that blur of motion. 
Endurance: Supernatural resilience is a relatively easy thing to project - 
never 
tell them if their characters’ attacks had any effect, unless the result would have to be 
totally obvious such as losing a limb. (After all, sure they shot the walking corpse, but 
unless it falls over or the bullet visibly bounces off, do they really know what effect the 
shot had?) This is especially effective ifthe game is using the optional system regarding 
visible injuries -just 
don’t have a supernaturally resilient creature ever show any 
signs of being injured until it keels over or gets away, and the players will quickly 
understand just what it’s like to fight a monster that might be shrugging off even their 
most powerful attacks. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Flying: As with supernatural speed, take advantage of the increased mobility that 
flight offers to move around the battlefield and stay out of reach (or at least 
inconvenience) the best weapons the hunters have. You can even rule that if acreature 
flies high enough it goes out of sight, but then can subsequently make a surprise attack 
from above on one particular target as it dives at high speed. Such tactics will keep the 
hunters guessing where the flying creature will strike next as well as the highly 
frustrating nature offighting a creature that can use a whole other dimension in battle. 
Intelligence/Precognition: An often-overlooked threat is a creature with super- 
human intelligence or precognitive powers. Such creatures are generally one step 
ahead of just about everyone due to their superior planning skills; to simulate this in 
combat, you may give a monster one “planning card” per level of Supernatural 
intelligence or foresight it possesses. At any time during combat, these cards can be 
turned into a minor item or plot twist in the creature’s favor. (Think in terms of what 
villains in spy films always have to seem handy when a hero threatens to thwart their 
plans - 
hidden pistols, escape routes, a squad of disposable goons, etc.) However, the 
Storyteller should always take care that planning cards are never used to create the 
following: unstoppable escapes, situations impossible for the players to overcome, or 
items that couldn’t or wouldn’t be present -pistols or knives are one thing, but think 
hard before having someone whip out a katana from inside her suit jacket. Rather, 
think of these cards as the creature’s intelligence or foresight leveling the playing field 
when things threaten to upset its plans. Likewise, so long as players understand that 
planning cards are a representation of the creature’s supernatural intelligence and not 
simply being used to “screw them over,” such cards can give players an excellent idea 
what it is like to battle an enemy who can predict every move or whose thoughts 
operate at a level far above their own. 
The Heralds: Why limit stagecraft to supernatural powers? Pulling out the stops 
with regards to the Heralds - 
during the imbuing or otherwise - 
is another excellent 
way to reinforce the otherworldly edge to the lives of the imbued. Some good ideas for 
simulating these mysterious entities are: recording a CD of strange voices and phrases 
(and instructing non-imbued to ignore such sounds entirely); inserting written 
messages into papers or magazines (opening the sports section to see “IT DOES NOT 
LIVE printed in bold letters right across the top of the page just as the zombie walks 
in is an experience not soon equaled); scrawling hunter code symbols on prominent 
props or set pieces (so long as you don’t do damage to them out of game); and, for the 
truly technologically inclined, inserting text or audible messages into video that’s 
watched during the game can all work wonders to kick off an imbuing or establish the 
mood later on during the game. Players with the Patron Background can be fertile 
ground for this kind of experimentation as the chronicle goes on, but even if you only 
intend to use such effects during the imbuing you should take it as an opportunity to 
go all-out with what the players will experience. 
So You Want to T’ell a Story. . ., 
You’ve got some players, a place to play, a plot and a collection of great CDs - 
you’re ready to play, right? Nope. Here’s a checklist of important things you’ll have to 
work out before the game even starts. 
T’he Imbuing 
As the moment that defines a hunter as something forever apart from the rest of 
humanity, the imbuing offers the possibility for some extremely powerful roleplaying 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
i 
c 
i I 
and truly unforgettable scenes. Yet at the same time the very mysterious nature of this 
event can seem intimidating to Storytellers, putting them at a loss for how to portray 
such a momentous event in a way that the players will relate to and at the same time 
contribute to the chronicle they wish to create. Therefore, the following section 
details some common ways to approach the imbuing to ensure that it will be the kind 
of life-changing event it deserves to be without running you absolutely ragged in the 
process. Even if the imbuing isn’t handled during play, some of the concerns covered 
here are still useful in making sure the story of the imbuing carries the proper weight 
in a character’s backstory. 
As always, these suggestions should not be considered absolute gospel - 
if you 
find a better way to run the imbuing in your game, by all means go ahead. It is simply 
intended to be a guide to help Storytellers with designing asession that is often as tricky 
as it is rewarding. 
Know T’hyself (And T’hy Players) 
Althoughone would think it would go without saying, a lot of times players begin 
their first session knowing nothing more about their characters than their name, their 
in-game statistics, and perhaps a 30-second biographical sketch. While it’s true that 
some things about a character are never quite solidified until play begins, much of the 
point of Reckoning is lost if you cross over into imbued life without a sense of what 
you’re leaving behind; it’s hard to empathize with a character you barely know. 
Likewise, as a Storyteller you stand to risk missing much of the flavor and intensity of 
a hunter imbuing if you simply dive into the first session with a nothing more than a 
timeline scribbled on a cocktail napkin that reads: “8:05, game begins; 8:25, brain- 
eating zombies arrive; 8:26, wackiness ensues.” 
This isn’t to say that every hunter needs a 40-page character history complete 
with a list of childhood playmates, top 10 favorite ice cream flavors and high school 
grade point average, nor does it mean that you have to have plans for the first session 
rivaling the complexity of the Normandy invasion. It’s simply that for the themes and 
atmosphere of the Reckoning to come into play, your players have to be able to really 
sympathize with their characters and the struggle they’ve been thrust into or a lot of 
the essence of the imbuing is lost. Likewise, as the Storyteller you have to have a clear 
idea of which aspects of the imbued and their mission you wish your games to focus on, 
since the imbuing will set the tone for how the players view the rest of the chronicle 
afterward. 
In the case of the players, preparing them for the imbuing and the future beyond 
it often involves detailing the past. It’s a good idea to require at least a thumbnail 
sketch of each character’s life, friends and loved ones before play begins (if only 
because you intend to take one or more of those away during the imbuing). Nothing 
terribly elaborate, but enough to give them a feeling of being part of some community 
and not just an abstract collection of Traits brought into existence solely for the 
purpose of the game. If you’re running an imbuing for multiple characters at once, 
make sure they know each other as well as their in-game relationship requires. (There 
are few things as awkward as two players portraying best friends whose characters seem 
to know absolutely nothing about each other.) This goes for the Narrator characters 
as well -killing 
off a character who is supposed to be the love interest of one of the 
player characters but whom he really knows nothing about has much less emotional 
impact than doing away with a character he feels he knows well. Even giving a 
Narrator character a first name paired with a quirk or habit - 
“This is Steve, the guy 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


two cubicles down who talks a lot and always sneaks out five minutes early on Friday” 
- 
is better than saying it’s simply a nameless someone who works in the same building 
as one of the hunters. In short, humanize everyone as much as you can, even if you 
know they’re going to be zombie bait six minutes in; the players certainly don’t know 
that, and it helps reinforce that those bodies the zombies are eating weren’t simply 
victims, they were people as well. 
Preparation for the imbuing should involve a careful contemplation of some of 
the other elements covered in this chapter, most especially plot, theme and mood. 
Think about what type of imbuing you can create that will best work for the chronicle 
you have in mind and the characters the players have prepared, and construct the 
imbuing accordingly. As one of the most powerful moments in a hunter’s life, the 
imbuing will naturally set the tone for how he approaches everything afterward, and 
so you want to ensure it’s one that will work with what you have in mind as opposed 
to one you will have to fight to overcome. You are likely to be unpleasantly surprised, 
for example, if you expect and plan around the group being sociable with monsters if 
their imbuing consisted of a nightmarish battle with an array of bloodthirsty creatures. 
Rather, if you want to have a game where the hunters’ new abilities and situation are 
as inscrutable as the Messengers themselves, include things that will make the players 
question everything about their new existence. For example, you could have the 
hunters receive contradictory (or at least apparently contradictory) messages from the 
Heralds, meet other hunters with radically different motivations or strange edges, be 
joined by bystanders who seem to be like them but then freeze up at a critical time, etc. 
If you want more of a straightforward action-adventure feel for your game, make the 
choices more clear-cut, add some dramatic physical challenges to overcome, and give 
the hunters direct means to take action against the creatures you present. 
Of course, nothing says you can’t throw the players a thematic curve during the 
imbuing, especially if you know they’re expecting you to go one way in particular, but 
just bear in mind that the imbuing will resonate for a long time afterward and 
brainstorm accordingly. Once you feel you and your players have a good enough grasp 
on the characters and the world they thought they knew, it’s time to pull back the veil 
and let them hear the truth of the Heralds. 
Establish R Feeling af Warmalcy 
It’s an old axiom that horror works best when it contrasts with the mundane. This 
is an important thing to remember as you actually set up and begin the imbuing session 
- 
it should contain enough ordinary life and everyday experiences that the players get 
a feeling of being ordinary people. Too often a Storyteller will spring monsters and 
visions on the players before they really have a sense of what their characters were like 
as ordinary folks, thus robbing the inevitable character transformation that accompa- 
nies the imbuing of a lot of its dramatic potential. Perhaps the best way to establish this 
feeling of normalcy is to have the session begin with the players engaged in some 
perfectly normal activity, and let it play out for at least half an hour to an hour before 
really throwing the imbuing into high gear. For example, if you’re planning on having 
the imbuing occur while the players are taking part in a group therapy session, let them 
actually sit down and roleplay the therapy process for perhaps an hour or so. Once you 
feel it they have gotten solidly into character and have a feeling of the rhythm of their 
lives before the imbuing, then the inevitable arrival of the supernatural is that much 
more horrific and jarring to them. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I I 
I 
t 
I 
One positive aspect to this approach to the imbuing is that it paradoxically 
creates tension through unspectacular events, as the players’ own out-of-game 
anticipation of their imminent immersion in the supernatural means that each 
moment you delay giving it to them helps build up the excitement they feel. This is 
especially effective if you can call on a number of Narrator characters for the scene, 
which will keep the players guessing who the monsters might be out of game as well 
as allow you to show what happens to ordinary people when the monsters finally arrive. 
(You can even have some of these Narrator characters wind up as bystanders or even 
other hunters, to further throw them off guard.) This atmosphere also reinforces the 
sense that hunters are not created in a vacuum, and teaches them some truths about 
their new existence in a few seconds what might otherwise take hours to explain 
concerning the difference between them, the monsters and the people who have not 
heard the Truth. 
The only thing to be careful of when establishing a feeling of normalcy is that you 
not let it go on too long- while the scene shouldn’t feel rushed, letting it run too long 
will quickly spoil the tension that has built up as anticipation becomes exasperation. 
It’s a fine line, but one that deserves close attention as you run the events immediately 
leading up to the imbuing. Wait for them to get comfortable with their character and 
the scene, maybe relax just a little, then shatter that illusion of comfort with the 
imbuing. Monsters don’t play fair - 
who said you had to? 
Mcment of Truth 
So now you’ve arrived at it: the moment of the imbuing itself. Remember that 
save for those hunters with the Patron Background, this is the only time they’ll 
probably ever be in contact with the Heralds, so spare no effort to convey just how 
powerful and alien an experience it is. Overall session design aside, how you describe 
the actual moment of the imbuing will also color how the players view many things 
about their new existence, so think carefully about the effect that you wish to create. 
Sometimes even hunters who are imbued at the same time see very different things or 
receive very different messages from the Heralds, which gives you an immense amount 
of creative freedom as well as a natural way to tailor the experience to each character. 
Use it! First, think of how you want the presence of the Heralds to come to each 
character: is it a roar in her head that threatens to shatter her sanity, a feeling of bliss 
and words on encouragement from on high, or just simple (albeit undeniable) 
information? While you’re at it, write down what you want the Messengers to say to 
each character in advance, the better to avoid having to fall back on more cliche- 
sounding things like “THE DEAD WALK or “IT DOES NOT REST.” For many 
hunters, those words are all they have to go on in regards to what they think the 
Heralds want from them, so choose them with care - 
just look how far witness1 has 
gone in his efforts to understand and interpret “INHERIT THE EARTH.” 
Next, try to appeal to all of their senses as the imbuing washes over the characters 
andthesight laysplainthe truthofthemonster(s) before them-thesmelloftherot’s 
decaying skin hidden under its floral perfume, the sound of flesh tearing as the 
bloodsucker rips open its victim’s throat to feed, the sickly bluish skin of the walking 
corpse, etc. Anything that helps ground the players in the moment and immerse them 
in their characters’ new perceptions goes a long way toward making the imbuing feel 
like a true revelation rather just some comic-bookish transformation. Don’t be afraid 
to pause the session and relate to the players as much description as you require in order 
to convey the exact feelings and sensations youwant the hunters to experience. In fact, 
a brief descriptive pause often serves well to simulate the flood of sensory information 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


that washes over the hunters during the imbuing, so take advantage of the technique 
to make sure you get across the message you want. 
Lastly, don’t hesitate to employ as much stagecraft as possible during the imbuing; 
even the littlest props and makeup touches often make up in creepiness what they lack 
in magnitude. For example, while time stops and the players close their eyes for your 
description of the imbuing, you can have a Narrator character apply a bit of quick 
makeup so that when the players open their eyes again, they really do suddenly see a 
pallid corpse instead of a friendly businessman. Such things typically require very little 
advance planning or investment on your part, yet have an immeasurable impact on the 
players during the game. (More ideas for portraying the Heralds can be found 
elsewhere in the chapter.) Just make sure you don’t obscure the actual experience of 
the imbuing with the amount of special effects you use, and you should be all right. 
Mcunting Hcrrrr 
Once the actual moment of the imbuing has occurred, don’t relax the events of 
the session - 
like any other session, you should plan the imbuing so that as horrifying 
and jarring the initial experience is, it’s only the start of a rising chain ofevents leading 
to a powerful climax. One common mistake many new Reckoning Storytellers make 
is pouring a huge amount of description and preparation into the moment of the 
imbuing, but then having the rest of the session be a fairly unremarkable chase or fight 
sequence that just happens to feature the newly revealed monsters as antagonists. 
Doing so can undermine a lot of the horror and mystery surrounding the imbuing very 
easily, since any questions the experience might have raised in the hunters about their 
new existence immediately seems fairly easily solved by the directness of the rest of the 
session. This isn’t to say that a battle or chase plot can’t be used for the imbuing. It’s 
just that you should take a bit of time to think about how you want to use the imbuing 
and the events surrounding it to build to an even more dramatic climax, rather than 
having the moment of the imbuing be the biggest drama of the night and letting 
everything else slide after that. 
One good way to maintain the initial sense of horror is to make sure that the 
monsters the hunters confront understand and play up their monstrous natures and 
inhuman motives as much as possible. Even if the plot is relatively straightforward, 
such as a frantic chase to stop some rampaging creature, its behavior should constantly 
reflect its inhuman mindset. In short, the players should never feel as though they are 
simply dealing with humans that happen to have fangs or fur; while they might forget 
it, or the monsters themselves take pains to hide it, it should always be apparent on 
some level that the creatures the imbued are dealing with are not human. Their goals 
might coincide on certain things, but even then the characters should realize or at least 
suspect that even “friendly” creatures could potentially perform acts that would make 
the characters vomit if it would get them what they want. For example, if the imbuing 
places the characters in the middle of a fight between a shapechanger and a 
bloodsucker, the characters might very well side with the shapechanger, and it might 
even seem to be right and noble to do. Yet in the middle ofthe battle, the hunters might 
watch in horror as the shapechanger kills a few obviously innocent bystanders who get 
in its way without batting an eye, or flies into a frenzy and messily devours a wounded 
enemy. In short, while their behavior should never be arbitrary (though it might seem 
so to the imperfect understanding of the hunters), the creatures should always behave 
in a way that reminds the hunters that they’re dealing with monsters and not just 
regular folks with nifty powers and pale skin. 
1
1
1
1i
1
i
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


il I 
i 
I 
Another good technique to use in building a rising sense of horror and drama after 
the initial moment of the imbuing is to never let the hunters feel that they have a 
complete handle on their new powers and perceptions. Right about when one of them 
thinks that they understand what might be going on, another person in the group 
demonstrates an edge they hadn’t had before, or the actions of another character call 
into question the judgment or opinion the hunters had formed. Maybe a witness asks 
the militant Avenger why she’s attacking a creature’s helpless, cowering minion, or for 
that matter a more pacifistic Redeemer or Visionary might find himself the target of 
a grieving bystander’s anger for not striking down the monster responsible for killing 
their loved one. Perhaps another hunter or group of hunters arrives in time to save the 
characters’ hides, only to demonstrate a completely different view on the Heralds and 
the nature of the mission than what the players were developing. Paired with the alien 
motives of the creatures around them, this feeling of mystery about the Heralds and 
the new reality they’ve revealed to the characters can keep the players from starting 
to feel comfortable and keep them working and guessing to figure out what you have 
put before them. Just remember that the players should feel that it is possible to 
understand what is going on, it’s just diffrcult. Red herrings, conflicting motives, 
mysterious powers and sudden reversals are all wonderful tools to keep players 
guessing, but do not overuse them to the point where the players feel absolutely 
nothing can be counted on or only frustration will follow. Ideally, the players should 
be kept just enough off guard about their new state so that they don’t immediately get 
super-hero syndrome and team up unquestioningly on all things, but at the same time 
they are not so conflicted that they become frozen with indecision or infighting at 
every turn. 
Finally, now that you’ve designed things to keep characters debating what the 
true nature of the monsters and their new imbued state might be, go back to the 
mechanics of the plot itself and make sure it furthers the imbuing experience you want 
tocreate. Planout themajoreventsofthesession toget the best usefromyourNarrator 
characters and to create the most horrific effects possible, and don’t forget to have a 
few contingency plans in mind incase the players do something unexpected. Write up 
a timeline to cover pacing issues so you can make sure you haven’t put too many 
combat scenes back-to-back, or written a big pause in the action right before the final 
scene that will rob it of its dramatic momentum. Brief your Narrator characters so that 
even if they’re doing nothing more than playing a screaming mortal or low-level 
flunky, they know what their motivations are andcanconfidently answer at least afew 
basic questions that curious hunters might put to them about their past. Last but 
certainly not least, make sure the actual climax of the imbuing is a challenge, whether 
that means giving the characters a savage battle, perplexing enigma or even just a 
desperate roleplaying scene - 
win or lose, the players should feel as though they 
achieved some kind of solid resolution. Even if that resolution was simply their ability 
to survive in the face of this particular supernatural menace, it should be something 
significant enough to give them food for thought in future sessions and perhaps a few 
lingering plot threads they can explore later on down the line. 
T’he Brrfen Mirrcr 
Another element that many Storytellers forget but which offers a wealth of 
excellent roleplaying opportunities is portraying the inevitable return to “normal” 
society following the imbuing. Quite often the police or other authorities will arrive 
to investigate the events surrounding the imbuing, especially a violent or particularly 
public one, which means the characters will have to answer some questions and get 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


their first taste of the double life they’ve just been forced into. A hunter may get away 
clean from the scene of the imbuing and arrive home in the dead of night, only to find 
her worried husband or child is waiting up for her with questions she can’t really 
answer. Even if the hunter lives alone, works nights and doesn’t bump into anyone she 
knows in the immediate aftermath of the imbuing, take a moment to illustrate the just 
how her life has changed in the days following, especially in comparison to the blind 
people all around her. Maybe her boss says the same thing as one of the creatures by 
pure chance, causing her to freak out, only to find that he shows up clean to the sight 
and that her reaction has confused and frightened her co-workers. Perhaps she sees an 
ominous hunter symbol painted on a wall she’s walked by a thousand times before, only 
to be bumped and jostled by the other pedestrians who stroll by ignoring the danger 
sign only yards away. 
The ultimate purpose of such scenes is to show the players that life goes on around 
their characters, but that inste 
able and ordinary it only reminds 
s to realize). These interludes need 
te and overdone if they are -but 
is recommended, h 
have monsters and 
Unique Considerations 
If you’re a novice Storyteller, this section contains vital information about 
organizing a successful Laws of the Reckoning game. If you’re an experienced Mind’s 
Eye Theatre Storyteller, you still need to read this section, perhaps twice, because 
Laws of the Reckoning has some unique considerations that bear mentioning when 
it comes to setting up and running long-term chronicles. Certain typical conventions 
of live-action in general or Mind’s Eye Theatre in particular don’t apply much or at 
all to this game, while other dimensions are opened up that are difficult to explore in 
other venues. 
Therefore, do yourself a favor and take a look at these topics before you go much 
farther, because if you don’t you may quickly find yourself at the head of a very confused 
chronicle with no idea why it’s turned out the way it did. On the other hand, once you 
know about these special factors, you can use them to build a game like your players 
have never seen before, creating a unique roleplaying experience they’ll remember for 
years to come. 
Q
1
1
I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


a 
I 
I 
 
Style of Play 
One way or another, many live-action game sessions involve a group of 20 to 30 
members of the same group - 
or supernatural race, or political group, or what have 
you - 
all gathered in one location, where they proceed to play politics with each 
other, tell stories of their mythic past, fight among themselves for power and otherwise 
conduct the business of their shadow society. To borrow terms from other Mind’s Eye 
Theatre games, it naturally makes sense for a city’s Kindred population, or Garou sept, 
or changeling court to all hang out and talk shop or put the moves on each other - 
it’s part of their culture, and has been since the dawn of time. There’s enough inherent 
drama in one meeting of such beings to keep a chronicle going for quite some time, as 
they all have a clear sense of where they’ve come from and most likely a common 
purpose or two that they’ve inherited from their ancestors as well. 
It doesn’t work quite that way for the imbued. 
Sure, you can put 20 or 30 of them in a room with each other, and sparks of some 
kind are bound to fly - when the local Avenger team butts heads with the 
neighborhood Redeemer group, their differences are sure to provide plenty of fuel for 
a number of good dramatic scenes down the line. A gathering can also provide the 
imbued with a much-needed sense of community in their largely isolated and paranoid 
lives, reminding them when things look bleak that they’re not in this alone after all. 
It might also happen if a number of teams are aware of each other and decide it’s time 
to share notes, discuss common threats and so on. Lastly, if one is willing to look years 
down the game’s timeline, such gatherings will become increasingly important as the 
creeds begin to solidify into more formal organizations, distinctions between followers 
of different Virtues are recognized and the imbued really begin forming their own 
shadow society instead of the loose underground collective they have managed to 
build so far. 
Trouble is, the imbued aren’t even close to that point yet, and that makes large 
meetings of the imbued tricky propositions at best, especially if you intend to make 
them the central events of your chronicle. It’s hard to develop a sense of the imbued 
being part of a tiny and secretive community if the only time they ever meet for a game 
session is when they’re surrounded by 30 other hunters just like themselves, no matter 
how hard you might try to drill it into their heads that on all other nights “they’re alone 
against the night.” Hunters still tend to operate in small teams formed by chance and 
circumstance, and while imbued of the same city might keep in touch with each other 
through the hunter-net or other means, it’s unlikely they’ll meet in one place, where 
it would be only too easy for their various enemies to spy on them or even possibly try 
to take them all out at once. Some hunters even live in willful ignorance of their 
fellows as much as possible, afraid that if they are captured or mind-raped by the enemy 
they’ll give up information that could get other imbued killed. Removing some of these 
elements without careful consideration of how they can be replaced or at least 
compensated for can quickly cause players to have adistorted and inconsistent outlook 
on their characters and the world they inhabit, which in turn leads to serious problems 
down the road. 
What’s more, in regards to matters of internal politics and power structures, while 
various imbued might have substantial ideological differences, at this stage of the hunt 
the hunters are too disorganized and frightened of the enemy to do much other than 
debate with each other. Only the fanatical or the insane are going to fight each other 
outright when there’s so much to be done and so many enemies everywhere they look, 
i
1
I I
1
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


and those who resort to such tactics are usually shunned (or worse) by their fellows 
before long. 
This natural cohesiveness can be a serious impediment to creating drama and 
excitement at large gatherings of imbued, because right now there is simply too much 
need for cooperation built into their very existence for them to believably maintain 
high-intensity conflicts for a long period of time. This means that gatherings of 
imbued, while rich in roleplaying experiences and information exchanges, can quickly 
run out of elements of drama or action that help keep the plot moving - 
bringing in 
outside enemies can sometimes work, but you can only have monsters or the 
authorities show up at these meetings so many times before it becomes cliche (not to 
mention having players wonder why they make themselves easy targets like that), and 
then you’re right back where you started. 
So faced with these problems, what’s an eager young/grizzled old Storyteller to do? 
Fortunately, there are a few suggestions that can help you iron out some of these 
wrinkles and build a game that works with the elements of hunter life, rather than 
against it. 
Solution One: T’rcupe-Style Hay 
Perhaps no other game is as well-suited to troupe-style play than Laws of the 
Reckoning. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the term, ina live-action context 
it refers to a style of play where players create several smaller groups of characters (such 
as hunting teams) and then alternate responsibility for portraying Narrator characters 
and otherwise running games for each other. For instance, say a group of 15 players 
decides to run a troupe-style game. For simplicity’s sake, they break up into three 
troupes A, B and C, with five people each. When troupe A has a session, members of 
troupes B and C act as Narrator characters and work with Storytellers and Narrators 
to fill all the needed roles - 
villains, allies, bystanders and so on. Then when troupe 
B has a session, members of troupes A and C help run the show, and so on. Sometimes 
troupes may even rotate roles on the same night, if the scenes that each group needs 
to run are short. All three might be working on one story together, or they might have 
little or nothing to do with each other, as the Storyteller decides. 
The advantages of this system are extensive, especially with hunter chronicles. 
First of all, the players get to retain a sense of being in small, isolated groups, while the 
larger-than-normal Narrator character base allows for the creation of very in-depth 
scenes with many personalities for characters to interact with - 
rather than simply 
describing a bar full of people, for example, the Storyteller may actually have enough 
members of other troupes to set one up! It also ensures that troupes cooperate well out 
of game since they all rely on each other to help bring their sessions to life -a 
troupe 
that routinely refuses to help out may well find itself short onNarrator characters when 
it wants to schedule a game, for example. (Offering an Experience Trait or other in- 
game benefit is a good way to keep Narrator character attendance up as well, as long 
as you ensure that such rewards aren’t abused by players seeking only to quickly rise in 
power instead of helping the game as a whole.) Writing plotlines tailored to specific 
players and groups is easier as well -since 
they operate largely or entirely as separate 
entities, you can throw a combat-oriented plotline at the troupe that enjoys action 
without worrying about isolating the group that’s more geared toward puzzle solving, 
even if you eventually intend to steer them all onto the same course. It’s also an 
inherently flexible system, since it relies on being able to gather a much smaller 
I 
I 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
1 
P 
I 
1 I 
number of people, and thus can generally be scheduled fairly easily, sometimes even 
on weeknights. 
Ofcourse, there are problems inherent in this system as well, though nothing that 
can’t be overcome with some effort and imagination. First and foremost is ensuring 
that all the troupes feel they are being dealt with fairly, which means making sure they 
all get to schedule sessions and that none of them feel that they’re being passed over 
when it comes to pivotal plots and details. Second is a matter of time itself - 
while 
individual troupes take up less time, a larger group can generate a number of troupes 
to keep track of, especially if you try to do it on your own, so you may wish to appoint 
a Narrator or for each troupe to keep track of their plots, help schedule events and so 
on. Multiple Storytellers may even become a necessity in larger groups if you want to 
be able to make sure that every troupe gets a fair chance to play each month, requiring 
in turn that you meet with them and make sure that the various troupe storylines are 
progressing as you desire. Lastly, players may also be hesitant about others using 
knowledge they gained as Narrator characters against their own characters later, 
especially if they’re rivals of some kind. Problems with that kind of metagaming can 
usually be handled by reserving truly important plot information to characters 
portrayed by Narrators and Storytellers only, and reminding players that using 
information gained while a Narrator character is simply cheating and will not be 
tolerated. 
Overall, while there are quite a few concerns with true troupe-style play, most of 
these are logistical in nature, and thus solved with proper planning and coordination; 
on the other hand, the primary benefits gained are plot- and character-oriented ones, 
elements that can be extremely difficult to replace once they’ve been lost. Managing 
such an unconventional timetable or group structure thus requires a different ap- 
proach than most live-action games, but the rewards can be commensurately greater 
as well. 
Sdutirn Two: Croup Play (With a Twist) 
No matter its various merits, troupe-style play simply may not appeal to some 
groups, whether for logistical or artistic reasons; therefore it will be necessary to design 
a Laws of the Reckoning game that reasonably and entertainingly supports a regular 
large gathering of imbued. Fortunately, while there are some very significant concerns 
that need to be addressed, as was outlined previously, there’s no reason that you can’t 
construct agame designed to such specifications- all you need is a compelling reason 
for the hunters to gather together on a regular basis, aside from the simple fact of their 
imbuing. What follows, therefore, are four different ideas about how a large group of 
hunters might form in a way that’s conducive to the more typical large gathering 
session format, as well as providing ample material for possible subplots and inter- 
character relationships and conflicts aside from the threat of the monsters. 
Pillars of the Community 
In this scenario, the hunters comprise the leadership of a city neighborhood or 
perhaps an entire small town; while they need not all be elected officials or other 
authority figures of some kind (in fact it’s usually more interesting if they’re not), they 
are considered to be valuable members of the community and feel responsible for its 
welfare on a number of different levels. The fact of their imbuing has only made them 
more committed to their goals, and they meet regularly in order to discuss strategies 
for how to keep their community free from all kinds of threats, from monsters on down 
to garden-variety criminals. Perhaps they have formed some kind of grass-roots group, 
i
b 
I
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


but more likely they’re just your proverbial “concerned citizens” - 
only these citizens 
know monsters are real, and are determined to keep them from ruining what they hold 
dear. Many games lose track of the toll it takes on ordinary people when there are 
supernatural beings running amok in acommunity; however, if the players are the ones 
who’re going to be expected to help repair a damaged store front or are on a first-name 
basis with the people whose houses were destroyed in the fire they started trying to 
destroy a vicious rot, it changes their approach to the hunt altogether. This isn’t to say 
that the hunters will be called on to get cats out of trees or should be afraid to do 
anything for fear of indirectly harming one of the people they’re trying to protect, just 
that they will have to realize what harm the hunt can do to those around them. Of 
course, if the group does its job, the rewards of seeing their community grow and 
prosper can more than outweigh such concerns, as the players get a rare privilege in 
gaming: a chance to build a better community as a whole, not just torch the freak of 
the week to maintain the status quo. 
This scenario can work well with players who are just beginning their live-action 
careers and might otherwise feel a bit overwhelmed by the setting ofReckoning, as it 
allows you to confront them with a number of more ordinary problems and concerns 
as well as supernatural threats, perhaps turning up the supernatural element as the 
players get more comfortable and their characters start learning more about their 
mission. It can also work well as a change of pace for more experienced players, forcing 
them to deal with the kind of little details and everyday issues that aren’t usually part 
of other games. The difficulty of this scenario lies in making sure you communicate the 
scope you’re looking for. Bog the players down in too many mundane details and they’ll 
start wondering why they’re playing a game about people with such dull lives, but give 
them such positions of civic responsibility without focusing too much on daily life and 
they’ll soon feel like the Justice League of Cherry Hill, always out fightingone monster 
“villain” or another, and the point of the scenario will be lost. 
Hunters, Inc. 
Tongue-in-cheek title aside, the structure refers to games where the hunters are 
part of a formal or semi-formal organization that’s aware of (and probably run by) the 
imbued, which demands that they work together and meet in larger groups on a regular 
basis for progress reports, mission assignments and so on. Being together isn’t totally 
amatter ofpersonal choice, it’s a matter of obligation as well- whether they like each 
other or not, the hunters all joined for a reason, and thus overt common interest draws 
them to gather together regularly. Of course, the exact nature of this organization is 
up to the Storyteller and the players to decide, as fits the needs of the chronicle. 
Perhaps they’re part of one of the larger nascent hunter organizations such as the 
mysterious Rose Foundation or the eccentric Conscience of Earth, working to expand 
the organization’s scope and ability to help their fellow imbued, not to mention hunt 
monsters and make a few converts along the way. Maybe they’ve started a business or 
foundation of their own as a front for their activities - 
private investigative services, 
independent newspapers or generic “community outreach” programs are all good 
choices, though not the only ones - 
and use these new jobs to maintain a semblance 
of a normal life while they keep up the hunt. As long as they don’t hang out a shingle 
like “Zombie Slayers R Us,” they may even be able to use the authorities to their 
advantage if monsters try to interfere with their “legitimate business,” though it’s a 
delicate balance lest they attract too much official attention to their probably fairly 
questionable practices. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
i 
I 
i 
1 
I 
I. 
The advantage of this setup is it allows the players to feel they are working 
together toward very tangible goals, usually with a very clear mission as well, and also 
allows you to easily throw a number of curves, complications and creatures their way 
as part of the natural trials of their new “business venture.” What’s more, internal 
politics and subplots are sure to begin as players vie for different roles within the 
organization or try to take it in different directions, making for a good level of internal 
drama without having to worry too much about players actually pulling guns on each 
other or anything so drastic. The disadvantage is that it can make the experience of 
being imbued feel a little too ordinary if you’re not careful: “9:05, meet with pen 
suppliers about shipment; 10:30, meet with board for lunch; one o’clock, slay hideous 
unliving menace to all that is sacred; 3:45, golf with Bill. ...” To guard against that, 
make sure that the players understand that even with an organization of their own, the 
characters are still not totally safe from the evil the monsters represent -just 
better 
organized against it. They may even become more vulnerable as they are more public, 
or if the creatures start striking at their business to get at them. 
Just Following Orders 
Going a bit in the opposite direction, the characters of this chronicle are all part 
of the same organization as well, but it’s not one run by the imbued, and as such the 
hunters have to be much more careful to cover their hunting activities or risk 
disciplinary action or even dismissal from the organization. Obviously, for this 
structure to work it must be some organization that they cannot simply shrug off being 
dismissed from, or the chronicle will quickly come apart as the characters quit to be 
out from under its shadow. Maybe it’s one they can’t really leave on their own, like the 
military, and where being dismissed would cut them off from the other imbued who are 
still employed there. Perhaps it’s an organization they feel is simply too important for 
them to quit, such as the local plant where everyone works or a position on the city 
council, lest monsters corrupt it (or worse) in their absence. Naturally, explaining how 
so many imbued all came to work in a particular business or branch of government can 
take some explaining to avoid feeling forced, though it’s not impossible - 
maybe they 
were all imbued simultaneously while on the job, or perhaps they all arranged to be 
transferred to the same project or location as they slowly realized the truth about each 
other (perhaps even as aprecursor to the “Hunters, Inc.” scenario, above). They might 
even have been put together as agroup with no idea why they were assembled at first.. . 
which makes for some interesting questions about who their employer is and what she 
knows when they realize that so many imbued have been put together in one place. 
This arrangement preserves a bit more of the paranoid and frightening atmo- 
sphere of a regular Reckoning game, as the hunters must lead double lives to try to 
accomplish their goals and keep their exploits from becoming too public in the process. 
In this case their shared connection offers some measure of mutual assistance and 
direction, but also makes them vulnerable should the higher-ups in the organization 
decide to shuffle things around or even terminate one of the hunters. Imagine how 
helpless it feels to slay monsters at night but be unable to do anything to save your job 
at a meeting with your boss the next day. Throw a monster or two into the ranks of the 
company, aware of the hunters or otherwise, and you suddenly up the ante on the 
whole scenario considerably. The real issue of concern in this scenario is building an 
organization that the players will consider important enough for their characters, 
without making them feel forced to go along with a tenuous setup just for the sake of 
the game, and keeping the shadow of the organization and its requirements hanging 
over the players’ heads without stifling them. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Outsiders Looking In 
All of these other scenarios assume that the players are part of agroup that’s a fairly 
established part of public life, but that’s not the only option by far. There are just as many 
interesting possibilities for groups comprised of less well-regarded or even outright notorious 
elementsaswell. What ifthemajorityofthe localimbuedaremembersofastreetgang?An 
organized crime family? How about homeless people, streetwalkers, comer dealers, runaways 
or otherforgottenmembersofsociety?Life is hardenoughon thestreetsofthe Worldof 
Darkness without monsters preying on people no one else will miss-learning creaturesofthe 
night existcouldverywellinspirealargegroup 
to band togetherforsafety’ssake. (Ofcourse, 
if two characters are new friends but still members ofrival gangs or feuding families, things only 
getmore interesting.) Forexample, runningagamesetaroundamissionorshelter intherun- 
downpartoftowncanbringalot ofdifferent charactertypes togethertowardacommongoal, 
andalsogives themaconvenientplace tomeetsince many ofthemhavenowhereelse togo. 
Maybe the hunters aren’t part of anoutright criminalelement, but one that’sstill considered 
suspicious by “proper”society suchasaradicalpolitical party, advocacygroup,religioussector 
fringe performing troupe. How do their views change once they learn of the existence of 
monsters?Will they try toeducate the publicabout thisnewthreatopenly, orwill they work 
more subtly to call attention to the wolveslme in the flock?There are countless other p i b l e  
outsider grou psthat mightfind itprudent togather togetherfor variousreasonsome the Heralds 
callto them; thesearejustafewsuggestions.Someplayersmightevenplayauthorityfi~eswho 
learn the truth and become allied with their former social lessers, possibly at great cost to 
themselves and their lifestyles. 
This scenario is perhaps the best for building astrong “us versus them”menta1ity in the 
group, sincenot onlymust thehuntersfearmonstersstalkingtheireverymove, 
but they must 
dealwith the altematingabuseandapathyofmundaneauthority aswell. (Andlet’snoteven 
touchon what happens whenmonsters pull the strings ofsuch agencies.) Withnowhere else 
totumbuteachother, it’snottoodifficulttoimaginesuchimbuedgatheringtogetherinas 
large 
agroup as they canmanage. However, pre-imbuingrivalriesmay alsobe impossible toavoid, 
andcriminalelementsorfringegroupsmaynotbe 
as forgiving as individualmemberswhenit 
comes to suddenly hanging out with a member of arival faction or refusing to take part in illegal 
activitiesany longer, allofwhichcanmake troubleforcharacte rsandbringup tensionswithin 
thegroup.Thedifficultyinthiskindofscenarioisprimari1yoneofcasting: 
making sure players 
aren’t justplayingbroadcriminalor lower-classstereotypes,orcreatingtoomuchofa“Robin 
Hood” mentality surrounding the various seedy elements surrounding the characters. There 
can beapowerfulurge togiveall thecriminalsinsuchagame big heartsofgoldandmakeall 
authority figures irredeemably evil. Don’t. Sermonizing is one thiig, but forgiving criminals all 
theircrimesstopsmakingthemcriminals (and robs youoftheheartofthisscenario). Even if 
acharacter cancallonhis fellow gang members to help takedown ahuman-looking rot, that 
doesn’tmake 
they thought theywere killingaregularperson, 
probablywithoutmuchcause. 
Scluticn Three: Mixed Games 
Of course, there’s also the possibility of compromising and doing a little of both 
troupe-style play and a little ofconventionalgroupgaming, if you’re feeling up to both. 
The easiest way to do this is to have the group broken up into several hunting teams 
(perhaps also dividing up in-game territory as well), and conduct individual troupe 
sessions for each group one month, then stage a large gathering of all the available 
imbued the next month. This way each hunting team still gets a strong amount of 
individual attention, allowing you to write storylines that will give them opportunities 
to show off their talents and satisfy their playing styles, not to mention bring up 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I 
I 
I 
t I I 
I 
I 
incidents from their past without fear of focusing on a few characters or alienating the 
rest of the group by bringing up one player’s subplot too often. Players can also be 
exposed to more of the ambiance that is so essential to creating the right Reckoning 
environment, as they are still playing at least half of the time as a small group of imbued 
alone against the night, but they also get to reap the benefits of a larger session with 
their fellow imbued as well. If one troupe session in between each group session seems 
like too little time to develop plots, simply extend the amount of time (and thus 
possible sessions) between large gatherings as needed. 
Viewed in this context, large group gatherings become more important as well, 
a valuable chance to exchange stories and information with fellow imbued as well as 
perhaps put together a larger puzzle each group only had pieces of on its own. (Just 
beware the aforementioned “Hardy Boys Syndrome” and you should be OK.) Last but 
not least, setting up an epic-level storyline is just as easy with this format as one with 
humbler scope, since it’s simply a matter of tailoring each troupe’s goals individually 
instead of trying to steer the whole unruly mob of characters all at once every session. 
Just make sure you don’t let one troupe feel neglected by your session spacing -doing 
their own troupe session and then having to wait two months for the big session is a 
sure way to kill player interest - 
and you can build all manner of intertwining stories 
with relatively little ease, especially once you get the hang of scheduling them. 
For all the plot and character advantages, the main difficulty of this game 
structure is still a logistical one. Don’t kid yourself - 
to run this kind of game you’re 
going to need a few Narrators (maybe one for each troupe) and possibly another 
Storyteller or two as well, unless you’re sure you have the time to run all the troupe 
sessions yourself. (Think carefully about this.) Keeping track of each individual 
plotline will also be essential if you wish to avoid getting them confused or forgetting 
where one particular troupe left off, doubly so if you want them to be interconnected, 
and your should be wary of burnout when trying to handle so many different stories at 
once. Fortunately, the nature of the troupe sessions makes it likely that the players will 
give you a good deal of help with story material since you can put so much emphasis 
on individual subplots and the like, using their character histories to spark ideas for 
new stories. 
It should also be noted that for their part, this structure is quite easy on the players 
themselves, since they can get as involved as they like. Those who want to play more 
often can come help out with other troupe’s sessions, while those with more 
demanding time requirements need only worry about one session a month or so, 
making it a more accommodating schedule than it might appear at first glance, 
especially once you show the players the benefits of helping out with troupe sessions 
in addition to attending larger gatherings. 
Ultimately, the question of game structure is yours to decide. The means to tell 
any kind of story lie within all of them- 
we’ve simply pointed out some common ways 
they might go wrong, as well as some possible solutions to these problems. What you 
do with them is up to you, and we wish you and your troupe the best of luck no matter 
what your decision might be. 
Bookkeeping 
You will want to keep a careful, exact record of certain things throughout the 
course of your story. You may be tempted to blow off the book-keeping, but don’t. Part 
of the fun for players is watching their characters grow and change over time. They will 
want to know how many Experience Traits they have, how close they are to gaining 
i
b !
I 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


a new Ability, and whether their latest Influence actions have borne fruit yet. A good 
Storyteller should be able to answer these questions with a minimum of fuss, but you 
won’t be able to if you don’t keep accurate records. If the scale of your story is too large 
for you to keep all the records easily by yourself, it’s time to get some organizational 
help (see “Narrators,” below). 
If you have regular access to acomputer or word processor, take advantage of some 
of the terrific record-keeping and contact management software available today. You 
can maintain one spreadsheet page for each player, or combine them all into one sheet 
for easy comparisons. Resist the temptation to maintain this database in electronic 
format only - 
if your hard drive ever crashes, you’ll be very happy you kept paper 
copies in your notebook! 
Character Sheets 
Maintain ahard copy ofeach player’s character sheet, even ifyou’re using a personal 
computerfor mostofyourrecord-keeping andmamtenance. Insist that every player turn in a 
to youbefore participating inasingle 
habit ofreviewin 
decide before launching 
agamesession. AwardanextraTrait tothoseplayerswhoroleplayedexceptionallywell 
(but 
be sure to set the bar higher in subsequent games to prevent players from resting on their 
roleplayinglaurels). Ekyondthat,considerawardinganextraExperienceTraitonthe basis of 
character achievement to encourage your players to be more active during game sessions. 
Encourage players to list their character goals lntheu backgrounds, or to provide you with a goal 
listbeforeagamebegins.AshunterlifeIslargelyateameffort, 
ifmultiplecharacterscontribute 
to achieving a group goal, give all the players involved in achieving the goal the extra 
Experience Trait. 
Influence Traits 
If you permit your players to utilize their Influence Traits during downtimes (see 
“Downtimes,”below), you must keepvery careful trackofwhat eachTrait isdoing at all times. 
Otherwise, it is inevitable that twocharacters’ InfluenceTraits willclashas they attempt to 
complete opposing tasks- youwillneed toknow when thisoccurs to aid you in narrating the 
resultingfireworks. Ifyouare theStorytellerfor a largegroup-say, 
more than 15 players- 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I I I 
i 
t 
I 
consider giving controlofthe InfluenceTrait portion ofthestory to aNarrator; otherwise you 
may find yourself swamped with requests for Influence Trait activities between games. 
Strry Events 
Keep a log or journal of how the story is going. After each game, find some time 
to jot down a few notes about what happened. Reviewing these notes will help you 
prepare for the next game session and evaluate how the story is progressing. Don’t 
hesitate to ask individual players what their characters saw, heard and did at each 
game; better yet, ask them to provide you with some kind of post-game statement or 
note detailing the game session from their characters’ points of view. 
Gharac ter Creation 
Work as closely as possible with your players during character creation. The time 
you invest now in helping your players create interesting, vivid characters will repay 
you tenfold when the game is actually under way. Much has been written about the 
value of building strong motivations into player characters, and this is your chance to 
remind players of this necessity once again! Characters must have clear motivations, 
plans, hopes, dreams and goals, or they are little more than adry collection of statistics 
on equally dry paper. 
Some Storytellers like to meet with each player individually, but busy schedules 
and large troupes can sometimes make this impossible. Try holding a group brain- 
storming session to generate good, strong character concepts, talk about shared 
character histories, and get a general feel of the sorts of stories to which these 
characters are best suited. Be clear about what you will and willnot allow in your story. 
If you intend to change any of the rules in this book - 
and it’s perfectly natural and 
acceptable if you choose to do so- inform your players as they are thinking about their 
character concepts, so that they do not inadvertently create characters that will be 
unplayable in your story. 
Some troupes, particularly large ones, may have the luxury of several Narrators 
who can help players make characters and forward the paperwork to the Storyteller. 
This method works well as a time-saver for exceptionally busy Storytellers. However, 
if you decide to allow Narrators to supervise character creation, be certain to provide 
them with any special rules or methods you wish observed. 
Regardless of the character creation method you employ, take ample time to 
review the character sheets before the first game session starts. Look for mistakes and 
errors that will complicate play later, such as a character with too many Attribute 
Traits for her age. Acquaint yourself with the histories and backgrounds for each of 
your player characters. Make a genuine attempt to understand what makes each 
character tick, and if you don’t understand, ask the player to help you grasp what he’s 
trying to convey. If you don’t understand why a character has a particular item in her 
background, ask the player to account for it before play begins. 
Once the story commences, your concern should turn from character creation to 
character development. Encourage your players to keep records, diaries or journals 
written from their characters’ point of view as a roleplaying exercise. Talk with players 
about their characters from time to time to get a sense of how they perceive the 
characters’ actions within the context of the story, and how they think the characters 
are developing. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I 
1 
1 
I 
I 
)r 
I‘ i 
hn Evening’s Events 
Before the Game 
Abandon any hope of accomplishing anything not game-related in the hours 
before the session actually starts. You’ll be too busy making final adjustments to the 
night’s plots and subplots, reviewing character sheets, packing up props and answering 
last-minute player questions. No matter how hectic or busy these hours might be, 
however, don’t forget to take a few moments to relax and prepare yourself mentally for 
the game. If possible, meet with your Narrators and make certain they know about any 
special expectations or goals you have for the evening. 
&e-Game Setup 
Be one of the first people to arrive at the game site. Establish yourself in a 
convenient table, chair or corner and tell your players when you think you’ll be ready 
to get the game underway. Check out the game site - 
is everything as it should be? 
Unpack and set up your props, enlisting help from your players if necessary. Set aside 
some time to check in your players before the game starts -many 
of them will want 
to talk with you briefly and ask questions. Have your copies of character sheets handy. 
Check all props for safety, remembering that no real weapons of any kind are allowed 
in the game, ever. 
Game On 
Give your players a minute or two to collect themselves and get “into character.” 
Advise them that they should remain in character henceforth unless they have a 
question for the Storyteller or a Narrator. If the size of your game location permits, 
designate an area as the “reality room” where players can take a short break if needed, 
dropping out of character and remaining out for as long as they are in that area. Then, 
when all questions are answered and you are ready, inform the players how long you 
expect the game session will last, dim the lights, cue the music and announce the start 
of the game. 
Alternately, assuming it won’t badly damage your relations with the neighbors, 
have all the players exit (except those whose characters would already be at the site, 
such as a party host) and tell them to re-enter in character. Moving out of the location 
and then coming back in as your character is a subtly powerful tool for establishing 
both a sense of character and of location, not to mention allowing people to get their 
last few minutes of out+of-game conversation out of their systems away from the play 
area, so take advantage of it when you can. 
During the Game 
If you aren’t actively portraying a Narrator character or answering a player’s 
question, you might be a little uncertain what to do with yourself while the game is on. 
How you occupy yourself during a session depends more on your Storytelling style than 
anything else. Some Storytellers like to hole up in a comer with a notebook and watch 
the action, jotting down interesting occurrences and watching for problems. Others 
like to remain at their check-in area so that players can find them easily. Be prepared 
to answer questions, adjudicate challenges and resolve plot complications at any 
moment. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I 
i 
I 
1 I 
Rfter the Game 
It’s a good idea to get your players together before they leave the game for some 
“decompression.” Live-action roleplaying can be an energetic and intense experience. 
Give your players a little nudge back toward reality once the game is over. Encourage 
feedback from your players. What were their favorite and least favorite moments in the 
game? Did everyone enjoy themselves? If not, why not? Did anyone feel lost or 
confused? Are there any questions about the night’s events (be careful not to give too 
much of the plot away when answering this one)? Make any necessary announcements 
at this point. 
Police the game site and clean it up. If the location belongs to someone else, leave 
it in better condition than you found it. Pack up your props and make sure everyone 
else does the same. Be one of the last people to leave, and give the site a last once-over 
to ensure that nothing was left behind or is out of place. 
Many playing groups enjoy going out for refreshments after a game session, and 
that’s a great way to relax and unwind at the end of the night. Don’t feel obligated to 
continue Storytelling once the game session concludes, however. A player might not 
be able to enjoy his onion rings until you tell him how many Experience Traits he 
earned tonight, but it’s important to encourage players to have the proper perspective 
about the game. 
T’aking Care of players 
Some players will, for lack of a more polite word, obsess about your story and the 
game. They will spend the bulk of their free time thinking and talking about it, and 
will pester you incessantly with more questions about the plots, subplots, Narrator 
characters and clues. This extreme behavior can be both annoying and frustrating, but 
try to see the unspoken compliment these players are paying you. They are so 
entertained by your efforts that it’s their pastime of choice, no small feat in a world in 
which people enjoy many thousands of entertainment venues. 
Encourage all your players to pursue their goals actively. It is not sufficient for a 
player to decide that she wants her character to learn more about the Heralds - 
she 
must actively pursue this course of action during the course of the story. Encourage her 
to ask herself, before each game session begins, how her character can travel further 
down the path toward her goal tonight. The character who wishes to learn more about 
the Heralds, for example, should plan to meet and speak with as many different 
characters as possible during the evening, in order to get their opinionon or experience 
with these mysterious entities. 
Remember, while dispensing these snippets of advice and fielding dozens of 
zealousquestions, to respectyourplayers. Without them, there isno story! Thisdoesn’t 
mean you should allow your players to run your life or run amok without consequences. 
Showing respect does mean that youshould listenattentively when they askquestions, 
value their opinions, and strive to give them the best story you can. Meanwhile, keep 
an eye out for players whose characters come into conflict with one another during the 
course of the story. These players will sometimes tend to allow these inter-character 
conflicts to spill over into tension and hostility between themselves. If this happens, 
don’t hesitate to remind the players that they must learn to distinguish between the 
events that occur in the story and their own, genuine emotions. Such conflicts can, 
if ignored, become serious problems and damage your story. 
i
C 1
I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
New Players 
Coming into a new situation is always nerve-wracking. Now imagine that you’re 
going into a new place, meeting a group of strangers, and you aren’t even yourself! 
That’s what every new player is staring at when they make the giant step into 
roleplaying. These new players may eventually become your veterans, so it’s important 
to give them some attention. 
Occasionally, new players will forget what they should be doing, and may drop 
out of character at inappropriate times or break a conduct rule. Your best option is to 
remind them politely to stay in character or behave themselves, and it is a courtesy for 
others who are trying to play around them. Point them toward the reality room if they 
need a break or have questions. 
If the new person has never roleplayed before, pitching him out into the game 
with only a smattering of rules and his character sheet is frankly a little cruel. 
Sometimes these folks come in with friends, spouses or significant others, so they aren’t 
completely friendless or lost, but occasionally, the lone new person does come in, 
trying out something for the first time. Consider sending these folks in bearing plot 
clues for certain individuals, letters for characters or something that gives them a 
reason to get close to the other players. Some go-getters can plunge right into action 
without a moment’s hesitation, but the shy and the inexperienced may need some 
extra help. Some imbued, especially Innocents and Visionaries, often feel it is their job 
to get to know those new to the cause and look out for the well-being of their fellow 
hunters - 
well, here’s their chance! 
There is a disturbing tendency by some older players to view new players as “fresh 
meat.” There are few surer ways to drive off new players to your game than by letting 
the predators have their way. Keep an eye out for bullying, rules-lawyering or the like 
against new players, and step in if you see someone getting dog-piled. Most new players 
are often shy about approaching a Storyteller, fearing that their word won’t be taken 
seriously because they are not part of the “in” crowd. If someone does come to you with 
a complaint, listen to the grievance and investigate it seriously; taking it lightly only 
reinforces the player’s perception that his word is valueless. 
In the end, your best bet with new players is to give them plenty of patience and 
be prepared to give them some extra help as they muddle through the first games. You 
will be rewarded with seeing someone develop confidence in her roleplaying and 
taking on an active role without needing encouragement, and that means another 
strong veteran player you can count on. 
Harratnrs 
You can’t be everywhere during a game session. Sooner or later you will realize 
that something critical to the story occurred and you weren’t even aware of it until a 
week later! Sometimes you will actually be the last person to know about a significant 
event that happened at a game. Likewise, you can’t do everything yourself, especially 
if your story’s scale is growing. Unless you have an exceptionally small group of players, 
you’re going to need some Narrators. 
Stories can have unlimited numbers ofNarrators. A good rule of thumb is to enlist 
one Narrator for every 10 players, but you can adjust this to suit the circumstances of 
your game. A very intricate or volatile plot may require more Narrators than a game 
that is relatively straightforward or linear. The more Narrators you have, the more 
work you can delegate, and the more you can concentrate on Storytelling. Encourage 
players to go to Narrators with their questions first, especially those concerning rules 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
I 
adjudication. There is no reason you must handle every challenge personally if you 
have Narrators who do so competently. 
One of the most valuable and essential Narrator tasks is adjudicating rules 
questions. Therefore Narrators should be very familiar with all the necessary rules. 
You’ll have to evaluate your Narrators and decide whether they should answer player 
questions related to the plot, or whether they are “simply” rules Narrators. If you want 
your Narrators to provide players with plot information, be sure to brief them 
thoroughly and establish the boundaries of what information they can impart and 
what should remain hidden. Give them clear expectations and good directions before 
each game starts. 
Encourage your Narrators to ask for help if they are in over their heads, and don’t 
hesitate to step in if a situation appears to be getting out of hand. Don’t overrule a 
Narrator in public if you can avoid it, however, because doing so undermines her 
authority and causes embarrassment. Encouraging clear communication between your 
Narrators and yourself can help avoid situations like this. 
Narrators can help new players create characters, handle experience point 
expenditures, and help keep track of the story’s paperwork. Some particularly large 
games utilize separate Narrators to handle individual aspects of the story - 
one 
Narrator for all things relating to the Heralds, another for Influences, still another for 
the monsters, etc. Each Narrator is then responsible for managing that story element, 
and should do so with the goal of making less work for the Storyteller. 
Dewntimes - the Games-6etween-Games 
“Downtime” is the inclusive phrase to indicate not only the period between game 
sessions, but also any player character activities, actions and exchanges that occur 
during this time. If you weren’t aware of this fact already, your players will make you 
aware of it approximately two minutes after the game concludes for the night. The end 
of the game session isn’t necessarily the end of the action. Most Reckoning stories do 
not remain in limbo between game sessions - 
the characters still exist in the context 
of the story, even if they aren’t all meeting in the same place at the same time. 
Naturally, your players will wish their characters to undertake a variety of activities 
between games. 
The most inconvenient aspect of downtime or “off-line” gaming is that you 
cannot be present to personally adjudicate every activity. The best means of dealing 
with this difficulty is requiring your players to submit an account of all their characters’ 
downtime activities to you. Make certain you require that the players give you such 
accounts well before the next game session, as the reports will both provide you with 
a great means of keeping abreast of all character activities and yield a surprising 
number of story, plot and subplot ideas. 
Hunting Behavior - 
In what part of the city do the characters normally search for 
monsters? How do they react when they first meet a creature: cautious approach, 
distant observation or head-on fighting? Downtime is a good way to sprinkle hints 
and glimpses of creatures that will show up later, without having to worry about 
players immediately wanting to run out and fight the bad guy. 
Normal Lives - 
Never, ever forget that hunters were once (and in many ways still 
are) ordinary people with all of the normal joys and woes that accompany such a 
classification. Most hunters still maintain at least some pretense of a normal life, 
Good downtime information includes: 
i
b P 
11
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1 
I I 
1 
5 
i‘ 
I 
which in turn presents all sorts ofpossible plot pressures and complications for them. 
Did they miss an important meeting or family event?How is their family life? What’s 
their job been like lately? Even those hunters who don’t bother with normal lives 
anymore need to do something with their time off-camera; how do they survive with 
no normal income? What do they do with their time off? Do they even have time 
off anymore? 
Influence Traits - The player should outline exactly what she is trying to 
accomplish and how, note which Influence Traits are involved and what contin- 
gency plans she’s made in case her attempts fail or backfire. Consider the impact of 
these activities on your story before replying! 
Meetings - 
Who does the character meet with, when and why? What is discussed? 
Hunter-net - 
Built into the setting of Reckoning is a wonderful tool for downtime 
communication: the hunter-net. Having players create their own in-character e- 
mail lists to represent the hunter-net is an excellent way of representing this 
invaluable resource, allowing characters to communicate about different plot 
elements and plan upcoming actions without requiring too much face-to-face 
activity or Storyteller intervention. Just make sure that you’re on the list as well, and 
that people understand the difference between in-character and out-of-character e- 
mail, and you should do fine. 
Edges/Abilities - 
If the character is trying to learn a new edge or Ability, who is 
teaching him? Or is he simply practicing and hoping to learn on his own? 
If you have access to a personal computer and have the skills, you may find it 
useful to create a Web page that offers your players a ready-made downtime form which 
they can complete and submit online. 
Handling Player Questions 
There will be times during which you must engage a player in a discussion that 
obliges her to drop out of character. It’s unavoidable, but try to keep such interactions 
as brief as possible. Avoid protracted discussions or arguments about the rules; save 
them for after the game. If you must interpret a complex situation that threatens to 
seriously retard the pace of the game, make your ruling as quickly as possible and deal 
with any consequences later. 
Often one of the most distracting questions comes from players who arrive to the 
game substantially after the designated starting time. These players may have excel- 
lent excuses or they may simply be inconsiderate, but regardless you must decide how 
to handle the intrusion. One method is to force these players to jump right into play 
immediately without benefit of conferring with a Storyteller - 
this penalizes their 
tardiness by giving them no opportunity to spend Experience Traits or clear new 
equipment cards before plunging into the action. Another method is to oblige these 
players to wait, not taking part in the game, until you have the time and opportunity 
to deal with their tardy arrival. 
T’reubleshee t ing 
Player Bcredcm: “T’here’s nething tc de in this game!” 
You will hear this refrain at some point during your tenure as a Storyteller. If you 
choose your players wisely and prepare your stories adequately, you won’t hear it too often. 
But when you do hear it, don’t panic. Remember, the responsibility and burden of 
creating and maintaining interest in the story does not fall entirely on your shoulders, 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Out and Rbcut 
Downtime is also a good time to try a neat little trick - 
having a brief 
in-character meeting or scene in public or semi-public location, such as a park 
or a diner. Having imbued characters out among a whole bunch of ordinary 
people talking about ordinary things can bring home just what it must be like 
to live the life of the imbued in ways that are hard to manage otherwise. It can 
also help free up valuable weekend time by having necessary scenes done on 
a week night, since they seldom last long or require rules adjudication of any 
kind. Just be careful of a few things: First of all, never, ever, ever attempt action 
or combat scenes of any kind or any other events where things might get even 
remotely out of hand - 
the police will be called, and you will have some tense 
explaining to do at the very least. Stick to information exchanges, character 
reunions and other low-key scenes that do not require props and can be easily 
integrated into your environment. Second, always remember the rules about 
respecting non-players - 
leave offensive costuming at home, and do not 
make the people in the booth next to you uncomfortable by talking loudly 
about staking things and cutting off heads, or even just by using excessive 
profanity or other unpleasant character quirks. Not only is that common 
courtesy, but there are enough bad stereotypes about gamers as it is without 
you adding to the list by eagerly discussing your plans to burn down a 
bloodsucker’s haven in a way that half the cafe can hear (and promptly take 
out of context). 
Finally, and this is a big one to remember: keep it all in perspective. It’s 
fun to get your friends together and have your hunting team go out for an in- 
character dinner every once in a while, but slipping into character whenever 
you go out at all or constantly trying to arrange such in-game “nights out” are 
strong signs that you might be losing your ability to tell where the game ends 
and real life begins. This is meant to be an exercise in catching a glimpse of 
what life as one of the imbued would be like, not a substitution for the life 
you’re supposed to have yourself. Use common sense - 
remember, such 
meetings are a privilege granted by the Storyteller, not the players’ right to 
demand whenever they want one. Treat them accordingly and you’ll be fine. 
however broad they may be. Your players have some responsibilities, too. When you hear 
these complaints of boredom, try to help the player identify the source of the problem: 
Is the player pursing her goals actively? 
Is the player hoarding information she should be sharing? 
Is the player refusing to interact with other players during games? 
Did the player miss one or more vital clues? 
Did the player create an interesting character background? 
Is the pace of the game tcm slow for the player? 
Is the player achieving her character goals too easily? 
Is there something in particular the player dislikes or doesn’t understand about the story? 
Paradoxically, you might hear cries of boredom even when you go out of your way 
to provide the allegedly bored players with a clear course of activity! In such cases the 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I’ 1 
It 
I 
CII 
t i 
problem almost always lies with the players’ perception of the story rather than in any 
deficiencies in your Storytelling. Nonetheless, some players will claim to be bored and 
will have a legitimate complaint. Prepare several plot threads youcan introduce into the 
story quickly but that do not invalidate the plots and subplots already in progress. 
The more players that participate in your story, the more likely it is that one or more 
of them will eventually claim to be bored. The player may be bored because she’s not 
pursuing her character’s goals actively or worse, doesn’t have any character goals. If you 
think this is the case, remind the player that the easiest way for her to exclude herselffrom 
the story and grow bored is to remain inactive and silent during agame session. Characters 
whodonot interact withothercharactersorwhodonotmakeaneffort 
toparticipate in 
the action will be forgotten quickly by their peers. While some players may be shy and 
prefer to participate more passively, suggest that they locate at least one other character 
with whom to interact - 
otherwise, they probably won’t enjoy the game and there’s 
probably little you can do to alleviate their boredom. 
T’cc Much Vielence: “Ret another mass ccmbat!” 
Conflict is endemic to the world ofthe imbued, andsometimes conflict will lead to 
violence. It’sapartofthegame, but itneednotbethefocusofeachandeverystory. 
Ifyoubelieve 
yourstoryisplaguedbyunnecessaryorceaselessviolence, talkwiththe players youbelieveare 
responsible. Do they truly believe they are roleplaying their Characters’Natures and creeds 
appropriately,oraretheyusingthatasanexcuse tokickthesnotoutofevexythingthatmoves? 
Ifevery sessiondevolves intoamobscene combatorextendedseriesofPhysicalChallenges, 
you probably do have a problem. 
Try moving the fictionallocationofthegame toaplacewherethechamctersmust think 
twice about going berserk, such as an art gallery, museum, shopping mall or other public forum. 
Iftheextremeorunwmantedviolencecontinues tobeaproblemdespite yourbestefforts, the 
players and their characters must pay the piper for their behavior. Perhaps the a powerful 
supernaturalcreature targets them tobesilencedfordrawing toomuchattention tothe hidden 
world,ormaybeacharacterfacesjusticefrornhisfellow 
imbuedforusinghisfiststosolveevery 
problem, leading to dire but well-deserved consequences. 
If you believe the source of the excessive bloodletting is a particular player who seems to 
enjoy thegameonlyifhe’sattackingorkillingothercharacters,don’t 
let this personruin the 
game for everyone else. Deal with him calmly butfirmly, informing him that ifhe can’t rein in 
his behavior you must ask him to leave the game. Ifhe can’t handle this, get rid ofhim and don’t 
look back. 
Metagaming: “Hey, your character can’t pessibly knew that!” 
Ifyour playersseemconfused about thedifferencesbetweenwhatoccurs 
incharacter and 
out ofcharacter, advise them toadoptameansofdeterminingwhenaconversationorother 
communicationisoccurringoutsidethecontextofthegame. Suggestthat the playersremain 
in character at all times for the duration of the session, except when they enter the kitchen area 
-designatinga“reality”roomprovidesplayerswithameansofrespitefromthesometimes- 
taxing necessity ofremaining in character. It may alsobe a g d  idea todevelop an “out ofgame” 
handsignal; whileyoucertainlydon’twant tosee itusedalotoverthecourseofthenight, 
it 
can be an invaluable tool for a player who needs to insure that everyone knows what they’re 
saying is intendedasanout-of-game utterance. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I--- Rrgumentative Players: “You can’t do that to my character!” 
Donot allow the players toargue with you, particularly whendoing so willdisrupt the flow 
ofthegame.Listen toaplayer’sgrievance; ifitcan’t wait, thenmake yourrulingandstick to 
it. Once youmake your decision it’sfinal-otherwise youmight as well stop making decisions 
right now. Ifyou respect the input ofplayers whodisagree inanappropriatemanner, and then 
make afairruling,otherplayers willnoticeandwillemulate thisbehavior. 
Encourageyourplayerstorespectthestory. 
Ifthesourceoftheargument is thedeathof 
a player’s character, help the player deal with the situation maturely and rationally: Don’t allow 
him tomanipulate youthroughguilt oratantrum. Iftheplayersimplycannotcopewiththe 
realitythatnot all things willgohisway in thestory,don’tallowhissocialmaladjustmentto 
destroy the fun foreveryoneelse. Politelybutfirmly askhimtoleaveanddonot allowhimto 
r e m .  
Sometimes player swillargueamongthemselves about thegameor theircharacters.You 
have thefinalauthority toresolvesuchdisputes. Don’tletthesesituationsgrow intoshouting 
matchesorhysterics: Putastop to themlongbefore theyreachthatstage. Ifthearguingplayers 
can’t resolve their disagreement, resolve it for them as quickly and fairly as possible; if they can’t 
accept them, remove them from thegame and ny to help them workit out later. You’vegot 
astory torun, andyoucan’tletthiskindofsituationdelay 
thegameforeveryoneelse. 
Storyteller Burnout: “I can’t think of any more stories.” 
Thisgameshouldnot take precedenceover your life. Ifyouever fiid it becoming aburden 
or unpleasantchore, get somehelpor arrange totakeabreakfromStorytellinguntilyoufeel 
like returning to the helm. Let someone else take overthe story forawhile, or try playing anew 
typeofgame torecharge your Storytelling batteries.Thegameshou1d be fun for youas wellas 
for the players. Storytellingshouldneverfeel like acompletely thanklesstask, a burden you 
grudgingly acceptbecausenooneelse will-ifyoufeellike this, it’svital togive yourselfsome 
well-deserved time off before taking up the mantle again. 
Player Cheating: “Hey, you didn’t have that edge a few minutes ago!” 
It’s an unpleasant fact of life that some players will cheat. Aplayer might try to use 
AttributeTraits, edgesorresourceshercharacterdoesn’thave,ormight 
tryto fudge thenumber 
ofexperience pointsshe has tospend. Take the allegedcheater aside and try toget to thebottom 
oftheproblemimmediately-don’t 
let accusationsofcheatingfester,for theywill only 
undermine yourplayers’confidence in you andenthusiasm for the game. Ifyou actually catch 
aplayercheating, you really have only twooptions: give the player another chance or remove 
her from the game. 
Sometimesp1ayers“cheat”ona massivescale, “forgetting” tocross off Convictionand 
Willpower Traits they expendduring agame.Youcancombat these problems by having your 
players carry cards or tokens denoting Conviction and/or Willpower Traits. When a character 
expendseither Trait, the player must tumoverthe appropriate token( s) to you. Whenaplayer 
runsoutof tokens,sherunsoutofthoseTraits.Tokenscanbeaverygraphicreminderofnow 
precious Conviction and Willpower Traits are to characters! 
Failed Stories: “T’his game sucks.” 
Keep anear to the ground forthe murmursofdiscontent among yourplayers.None ofus 
are infallible, and you are no exception. Sure, some players seem to never stop complaining, and 
you’ll learn to screen unwarranted gripes. But don’t dismiss all complaints as idle whining 
becausesometimes yourplaye rswill have agenuine beef. Encourage themto bringreal problem 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


to your attention, and be appreciative when they offer you constructive criticism and 
suggestionsfor improvement. 
Sooner or later you’ll tellastory thatdoesn’tworkright. Maybe the players weren’t as 
interested in the main plot as you’d hoped they would be; maybe you miscalculated the 
characters’ relative power levels andunbalanced the game. Don’t let it discourage you from 
telling future stories! On the contrary, it’s important that you learn from these less than 
successful attempts andapply theknowledge yougainto laterendeavors. It’ssometimes true 
that failure, as frustrating anddisheartening as it maybe, teachesusfarmore thanoursuccesses. 
Favoritism:“You’re only letting him play that character because he’s your 
significant other!” 
The best antidote to accusationsoffavoritism isnot to practice it. Explain yourdeclsion- 
making process to your players and share your criteria with them. Strive to make your decisions 
about the game as impartial and objective as possible without inluring the story itself. It’s 
particularly importanttoad~udicaterulessituationsfairlyandnottofavorpeopleorcharacters 
youpmicularly like. Ifyouplace limitationsoncertaintypesofcharactersorpowers 
lnthe game, 
rotate these elements so that players ge 
main objective, accusations of 
favoritismwillsurface from time to time. 
unjustifiedand maskother issues: 
A player’s character died and he wants to blamesomeone for hs loss; a player felt she was unfairly 
denied the opportunity to play a special role in the game; a player thinks the Storyteller’s 
Unfortunately, no matter how car 
Don’teverbe afraid tolay down thelawwithproblemplayers. The integrityofyourstory 
is yourresponsibility, andeveryonehasequalopportunity toen~oythestory. 
Most player swill 
usually present no problems, but occasio 
ewillcrosstheboundary ofacceptable 
behavior.Oftenthetransgressionisaccidenta1 
iresonly areminder to keepplayersfrom 
gettlngout ofhand. But youmight encount 
ho actually enloysgettmg out ofcontrol 
andwreckngthegame throughconstantd 
ayk he likes theattentionor thefeelmg 
ofpower it gives him, butwhatever his mot 
umustdealwithhimquickly,calmly and 
decisively. It’s your story, and you’re well within yourrights toremove suchoffenders from your 
game permanently. 
Crossover Madness: “Can I bring my werewolf ivampireimageichangeling~ 
psychiciunstoppable hybrid Character of Doom into the game’!” 
Short answer: No! 
Although it is less common than in other Mind’s Eye Theatre games, sooner or later 
someone is going to approach you about playing a supematuralcharacter in your Reckoning 
chronicle. Chances are this person will have a fairly well thought-out concept, anumber of 
reasonable explanationsfor how hischaracter met the imbued andcame to workwith them 
andsoon. Perhapshewants toplayanoldersupematural creaturewhoworkswith the imbued 
against amutualenemy or out ofadesire for redemption, or maybe he’sthe latest player to build 
on the ever-popular “mortal secretly spying on behalf of the vampires” idea. Maybe he’s the 
sibling/spouse/best friend ofone ofthe characters who has been turned into some sort of 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


supematuralcreature, but stillwants tohangoutwithhis al1yand“bringdown the badguys” 
together. Whatever theplayer’sconceptorreasoningmightbe, it’sultimatelygoing to be up 
to you, the Storyteller, to decide whether or not you want to have friendly supernatural 
characters in your game in any capacity. Assuch, it’s perfectly within your discretion to allow 
it. 
It’s also within your discretion to slap your game silly with adead fish. 
Letitbesaidnow-includingsupematuralplayercharacters (orevenmorethanahighly 
paranoid handful of“friend1v”Narrator-character monsters) will almost certainlv cause an 
immeasurable loss to aReckoninggame. Evenopenandoutgoing imbuedare stillnot designed 
tobebest buddies withmonsters. nor are thecreatures likelv tobe the least bit inclined toextend 
a hand to these strange and frightening humans who are suddenly on to their secrets. Thus, 
havingmonsters thatsimplyhangoutandhelpthehuntersbattleevilgivessuchcreaturesa 
feeling offamiliarity and harmlessness that quickly devastates the ominous and mysterious 
nature ofthesupernatural that agreatdealofthe mood and atmosphereofReckoningrelies 
on. Inaddition, by offering aready source of informationabout the supernatural, another ofthe 
game’s turning points islost as the imbuedcanleamall they needtoknow about their enemies 
over beer and pretzels at the local bar, rather than learning it slowly and painfully as they 
normally must. It’s also arecipe forharshfeelings, sincesooner or later ahotheadedimbued is 
going to take a shot at destroying the supposedly friendly local abominationagainst all that is 
goodandright, andthenyou’regoing tohaveat least one playerwho’s tickedoffbecauseanother 
player just offed his favorite character. Having aNarrator character creature that the players 
meet onneutral termsfromtime to time isone thing(ital1owsyou tocontrolexactlywhat is 
said anddoneatsuchmeetings), butactuallylettingaplayerrunwildasoneofthesupposed 
enemycandoallkindsofharrn thatyoumightnotevenpickuponrightaway. 
Inotherwords, 
no matter how many g o d  reasons aplayermight have, resist theurge andgently but firmly tell 
them to playaconcept inlinewiththerestofthegame. 
Likewise, incorporating hunters into a primarily supernatural game as player 
characters is a bad idea of titantic proportions. If they’re antagonistic, they’re going to 
have an ugly and short-lived career that spreads ill will in every direction as they spy 
on and then kill off fellow player characters. Even if the imbued are not overtly 
antagonistic, nearly every supernatural society has a deep-seated and strongly enforced 
taboo against revealing themselves to outsiders, and that certainly includes nosy 
humans who aren’t related by blood and can’t be made into loyal puppets like other 
folks. Monsters who consort with such types are likely to be punished severely by others 
of their kind, often with execution or exile, and thus they have been removed from the 
game just as surely as if they had been killed by more trigger-happy imbued. Lastly, 
should the Storyteller have a total brain failure and choose to allow “friendly” imbued 
into their supernatural game, a great deal of the essential mystery is still lost as outlined 
above, since the imbued can just hang out with the creatures and learn what they want 
to know that way, rather than fearing and hoping and struggling to learn of the enemy 
as they usually must. 
We at White Wolf know that including such a strong prohibition will naturally 
only encourage certain players and Storytellers to create characters and scenarios 
designed for just the opposite, and as always if that’s what works for your particular 
game by all means go ahead. However, while such warnings aren’t ever written lightly, 
for Reckoning it applies more strongly than most other games -crossovers, especially 
hastily put-together ones, are almost certainly doomed to rob the game of elements 
that are essential to maintaining the spirit and atmosphere of the imbued. Do so at your 
own peril. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Called But Not Chosen 
Not every imbuing is a success. Sometimes a person sees the truth but hesitates 
to act, overwhelmed by fear or indecision, and their chance to make adifference is lost. 
Others awaken but find themselves distanced from the action by unfortunate circum- 
stance, while a tormented few simply can’t handle the experience and do their best to 
avert their eyes and put what they saw behind them. Indeed, given the extreme 
circumstances and emotions that surround the imbuing, it’s extraordinary that more 
people don’t shirk their destiny, though whether this is due to the selectivity of the 
Heralds or a hidden strength of human nature is a matter of debate. Regardless of the 
exact circumstances involved, those who are offered a chance at the imbuing but 
hesitate too long or flee their destiny are known as bystanders, people who are not fully 
imbued but will never again be as blissfully ignorant as they were before, either. 
At present most hunters aren’t even aware of the existence of such “demi- 
imbued” individuals, since following their failed imbuing most bystanders take pains 
to avoid anything that even remotely smacks of the supernatural, and that especially 
includes other people who talk about monsters (let alone approach them). Those few 
bystanders who actively seek out or fall in with hunter society are often mistaken for 
nothing more than particularly reclusive or timid Visionaries or Hermits, although 
this is slowly changing. The most fortunate are the bystanders who find the hunter- 
net and/or understand the hunter code, thus allowing them to communicate with the 
imbued and retain their sanity without risking exposure to more of the things that stalk 
the night. Particularly dedicated bystanders establish themselves as informants, 
discussion partners and equipment suppliers for the imbued; very few will willingly 
take to the front lines, as it was just such direct contact with the supernatural which 
caused them to reject the imbuing. Perhaps the most valuable role they have in regards 
to the imbued is the fact that bystanders are people who can understand what hunters 
have seen and what they are going through - 
even if that person doesn’t want to talk 
about it much, just knowing there are other people out there who know you’re not 
insane can make all the difference. 
For their part, what a hunter thinks of bystanders varies widely, though there are 
some trends based on what Virtue a hunter follows. Zealots tend to dismiss such 
individuals as weaklings and failures who didn’t have what it takes to tackle a tough 
job, while the Merciful usually view them with a mixture of pity and compassion, and 
try to convince them to take up the cause in whatever way they can. Adherents of 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
t 
I 
i 
I 
Vision are the most likely to judge them individually, according to their own ideas 
about the Call and what the bystander has to offer. Conversely, bystanders often see 
Zealots as frightening and dangerous individuals, and while the Merciful are typically 
much more understanding of their situation, their somewhat patronizing attitude can 
wear just as thin in the long term. Most intellectual or conspiracy-minded bystanders 
get along well with Vision followers, though others find their theories alien and 
confusing. Some look on the imbued with jealousy or hatred, reminders of their own 
failure or possessed of gifts “that should have been mine,” while others regard them 
with respect or even reverence for shouldering a burden they themselves could not 
manage. 
Ultimately, no matter whether they try to deny the truth or seek out the imbued 
in hopes of a second chance, all bystanders quickly learn that the touch of the Heralds 
has changed them in some indelible way, and try as they might they will never reattain 
the blissful ignorance they enjoyed in the past. In this way they are perhaps even more 
tragic than the imbued, for they have been exposed to the same truth but lack the edges 
and other benefits the Chosen gain to deal with it. No few imbued bemoan the impact 
that the second sight has on their day-to-day lives, but on the other hand imagine the 
fear and paranoia that bystanders live with, having once had a glimpse of the evil that 
exists in the world - 
then losing all ability to perceive it directly! While some rare 
bystanders exhibit one or two talents of their imbued relatives, such as ability to read 
the hunter code or resistance to supernatural fear or mind control, the maj ority of them 
are ordinary people in every discernible way, with no special edges or defenses 
whatsoever. 
In the end, the only thing that sets them apart is that they have witnessed the 
truth, and neither sleep nor madness can offer them permanent respite from this simple 
fact. Should they live to be 100 and never so much as glimpse another monster, they 
will still be haunted by the fact that they know such things exist and that once they 
were offered a chance to fight them. 
When to Fail Rn Imbuing 
Obviously, the question arises of how to determine if a person has failed her 
imbuing and thus become a bystander, especially if the imbuing is going to be part of 
play. After all, it’s quite common for many hunters to have at least a moment of 
hesitation when they come face-to-face with the supernatural, and many hunters 
(especially those devoted to Mercy or Vision) wind up doing things like watching from 
a distance, talking to the creature or otherwise not “leaping into the fray.” 
Along those lines, simply slapping the bystander label on players who happen to 
roleplay shocked silence for a moment during their preludes is just plain cruel, and 
there are few surer ways to alienate players than to tell them right off the bat that their 
characters washed out on the first big test of mettle in the game. On the other hand, 
the Storyteller may have to contend with a player whose character really seemed to 
totally freeze up or otherwise act like a bystander during his imbuing, but who then 
insists on becoming an Avenger because that was what he had in mind when he 
created the character. Running the imbuing as part of play is a wonderful chance to 
really immerse players in their roles, especially if they understand that their character’s 
actions will determine their creed in the process; however, when the possibility of 
bystander characters comes up, it may seem like an extra headache to add to the 
process. Players may feel constrained by the need to look like they’re doing something 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


to avoid being labeled a bystander, which in turn can potentially provoke a variety of 
out-of-character acts as players try to ensure they won’t be judged as failures. 
There are several ways around this dilemma. First, it’s quite possible for the 
Storyteller to simply declare prior to running the imbuing that no one will become a 
bystander, and just chalk up those who seem to have weak or ineffectual reactions to 
the imbuing as especially distracted Innocents, Visionaries or even Hermits. (Hey, 
nobody said you had to go totally easy on them!) You are the Storyteller, after all. 
Alternately, you can inform players that there will be a possibility of becoming 
bystanders during their imbuing, depending on their behavior, and simply let the chips 
fall where they may - 
provided that players feel that they have a chance to discuss 
the issue with you, this can be a wonderful way to ensure some intense and thoughtful 
roleplaying during the imbuing. 
Just make sure that the players feel as if they can discuss (though not dictate) the 
imbued/bystander outcome of their imbuing if they truly have an objection to where 
they wind up, and the process should go very well. 
considerations aside, given the substantial draw 
ompared to their fully imbued companions, playe 
e of these haunted souls at all, or St 
trouble figuring out how to include such characters in their games. There are a number 
of compelling reasons beyond the Bystanders Background to include bystanders in a 
Reckoning chronicle, however, and a few of them are as follows: 
“There but for the grace of God. ..”: The most obvious function of bystanders 
in any Reckoning game is to serve as a contrast to the hunters themselves. Whether 
they are cringing cowards or failed her 
ng for redemption, bystanders serve 
as an excellent way to remind players 
ue nature of their mission as well as 
the high price it exacts from everyo 
eralds contact. Just remember that 
bystanders are supposed to be real pe 
t just cardboard cutouts players can 
use to boost their ego. 
Logistics: More and more bystanders are assuming support roles in imbued 
society, performing ordinary tasks to leave their imbued comrades free to hunt, and so 
players may interact withNarrator character bystanders working in this capacity in the 
course of their hunting efforts. 
Introduction: Portraying bystanders can be an excellent “warm-up” for new 
olearnabout live-actionand the worldofReck 
imbued characters yet. As long as they understa 
power than fully imbued characters, it can be fu 
learning about hunter society in-game at the same time the player is learning about it 
out of game. 
Challenge: Conversely, some experienced players may enjoy the challenge of 
portraying relatively low-powered characters who botched their chances at being 
heroes but who still want to make a difference somehow. So why not let them? 
Numbers: If nothing else, hunters are supposed to be fairly rare, and so 
bystander characters allow players to take part in hunter society without packing a tiny 
suburb or city neighborhood full of an inordinate amount of the imbued. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I 
Quisf Character Creaticn Frccess 
Step One: Inspiration - 
Who are you? 
- 
Choose a concept. 
- 
Choose a Nature and a Demeanor. 
- 
Prioritize Attributes (six primary, four secondary and three tertiary). 
- 
Choose Traits. 
-Choose 
five Abilities. 
- 
Choose five Backgrounds. 
- 
Record starting Willpower Traits (two). 
-Record 
starting Conviction (10). 
- 
Record additional benefits (Shared Ordeal and Hardened Spirit). 
- 
Choose Negative Traits (no more than five Traits, if any). 
- 
Choose Flaws (no more than seven Traits, if any). 
- 
Choose a Derangement (Storyteller permission only). 
- 
Spend 10 (or more) Free Traits and choose Merits (if any). 
Step Two: Attributes -What are your basic capabilities? 
Step Three: Advantages -What 
do you know? 
Step Four: Last Touches - 
Fill in the details. 
Step Five: Spark of Life - 
Narrative descriptions 
Benefits 
Although they may feel their knowledge of the supernatural is far more of a curse 
than a blessing, bystanders still have a few special abilities that set them apart from the 
rest of unenlightened humanity. Additionally, their unique state between blissful 
ignorance and true imbuing also necessitates slightly different mechanics in regards to 
how they handle Conviction and confrontations with the supernatural, the details of 
which are handled below. 
Shared Ordeal 
Survivors of violence or natural disasters often seem to instinctually recognize 
others who carry the pain of similar ordeals, even after no more than a few minutes of 
unrelated conversation. Sometimes they can even identify aperson after merely seeing 
her on television or reading an interview with that person. Although not all of them 
realize they have this ability or choose to act on it if they do, bystanders are naturally 
attuned to hunters and other bystanders in much the same way, recognizing others who 
have been touched by the Heralds through telltale emotional signs that slip through 
even in ordinary situations. Although personal contact is the best way to make such 
a determination, bystanders can attempt to identify hunters or other bystanders from 
television or radio spots, written work or even a photograph (especially one taken after 
the imbuing). Visionaries who are aware of this knack theorize that the imbued might 
very well have a similar ability to recognize each other, and perhaps those in remote 
areas do just that, but with the availability of the hunter code and the hunter-net the 
imbued haven’t had to rely on this talent, and thus it goes unused and undeveloped. 
System: Bystanders can recognize hunters and other bystanders with a successful 
Mental Challenge (retest with Empathy); optionally, the Narrator may simply rule 
i
1
b P
f 
1
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


that recognition is automatic in particularly appropriate circumstances (deep conver- 
sation, therapy sessions, etc). The difficulty of this test varies: it is typically only two 
or three Traits following face-to-face conversation, but may be higher if the bystander 
is working from a picture or simply passing someone on the street. 
Hardened Spirit 
While the Heralds might not have chosen to bestow the full benefits of the 
imbuing on a bystander, the fact remains that she has still witnessed and survived 
direct contact with the supernatural (and most likely in very frightening circum- 
stances). Channeled correctly, the memories of this experience and her own anger and 
determination can actually allow the bystander to generate her own limited version 
of Conviction defense, or what is known as hardened spirit. While it still does not 
confer many of the benefits that hunter Conviction does, and it is extremely draining 
for the bystander to use compared to the relative cost of Conviction defense, hardened 
spirit has allowed more than one bystander to surprise monsters and imbued alike who 
had written her off as a failure or “little more than mortal.” Indeed, those few imbued 
who are aware of this bystander capability have suggested that it’s a sign that the 
Heralds haven’t totally abandoned these lost souls, but in fact are still trying to get 
them back in the fight by whatever means they can. 
System: A bystander may spend a Willpower Trait to become immune to 
supernatural fear, mind or emotion control, and partial or complete possession for the 
remainder of the scene. Doing so should be handled exactly the same way as hunters 
activating their Conviction defense, as it is essentially a weaker version of the same 
instinct. Note that activating hardened spirit does not reveal monsters in any way (as 
the sight does), nor does it allow the bystander to see immaterial ghosts, recognize 
possessed individuals, or pierce illusions or magical concealment. In addition, it does 
not prevent the possible loss of Conviction due to witnessing horrific sights or taking 
part in terrible acts - 
it simply allows the bystander to stand her ground and shrug off 
supernatural attempts to bend her will. Lastly, hardened spirit has no effect on imbued 
edges that have such effects - 
they affect the bystander normally. 
Conviction 
Although they cannot access it as hunters do, their contact with the supernatural 
and the realization that it must be stopped has bestowed upon bystanders the quality 
of Conviction as well. Like or not, deep down they know that monsters exist and that 
it has come down to ordinary people like them making terrible sacrifices to stop these 
creatures from preying on humanity. However, for bystanders Conviction is used to 
represent how well the character is holding up in the face of horrors both Supernatural 
and mundane - 
it is a passive Trait rather than an active one, measuring her sanity 
and will to continue the fight, reluctantly or otherwise. Particularly horrifying scenes 
or revelations will gradually wear down this reserve as the hunt goes on, and only by 
giving up part ofher inner strength (i.e., Willpower) can a bystander hope to stave off 
madness in this fashion. Naturally, whether this slow deterioration is meant as a 
punishment for hesitation or a means of trying to encourage her to take action while 
she can is something only the Heralds know for sure. 
System: All bystanders begin play with 10 Conviction Traits. Any time the 
Storyteller feels that the bystander has witnessed or performed something that 
threatens to eat away at his sanity, sense of humanity and/or his resolve to face the 
supernatural, she may call for the character to make an immediate Willpower 
Challenge against a difficulty based on the severity of the situation as well as the 
character’s familiarity with it. Thus, a bystander might have to make a difficult test to 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I i 
r 
I 
t I 
I 
t 
resist losing Conviction the first time he kills a monster, confronts a hideous walking 
corpse or stumbles on a grisly murder scene, but subsequent tests related to exposure 
to the same sort of things would likely get progressively easier as the character is better 
prepared to deal with what he is facing. Of course, lest the players become too 
complacent it is fully possible that the Storyteller can rule that familiarity offers no 
benefit in a particular circumstance, or even incurs an increase in difficulty- after all, 
it’s highly unlikely anyone would ever become used to seeing a family member 
tortured, and the feelings of hopelessness and despair from being unable to stop such 
activity after repeated instances could well increase the difficulty of the related tests. 
Should the player fail the Willpower Challenge, the character immediately loses 
a Conviction Trait, signifying his slow slide toward insanity. A player may spend a 
Willpower Trait for a retest, but doing so can quickly leave the character with few 
inner reserves in the face of danger. Additionally, a player may trade a permanent 
Willpower Trait for a Conviction Trait, essentially draining his natural reserves to 
bolster his drive for the hunt; this is the only way a bystander may acquire permanent 
Conviction Traits. If a character goes below three Conviction Traits, he receives a 
derangement for each Trait lost, much the same as a hunter acquires derangements 
when her Virtues reach high levels. Upon losing his last Conviction Trait, a character 
becomes a raving lunatic and is turned over to the control of the Storyteller. 
Naturally, determining exactly what circumstances merit a test in this fashion 
falls squarely within the Storyteller’s discretion and what she feels is right for her 
chronicle. The idea is to strike a balance between keeping the horrific and the 
supernatural as ever-present threats to a character’s mental health and well-being, 
without constantly bogging down the players with challenges or rapidly whittling a 
character’s Conviction down just because the player is unlucky at a few tosses of rock- 
paper-scissors. Likewise, if the game is a generally a fast-paced, combat-oriented 
chronicle, the Storyteller will probably require such tests only rarely; on the other 
hand, a chronicle centered around deep roleplaying and disturbing revelations will 
probably want to feature these tests quite often. 
If I Had Humanity, I’d Feel Really Bad Right Hew 
Dedicated readers will recognize that the system for bystander Conviction 
presented here has been simplified from the one presented in the Hunter 
Player’s Guide (p. 49-51). This change is not accidental; it was designed with 
ease of play and reference in mind, rather than adding another Virtue-based 
system to the game. However, if you would like to use Humanity and the Virtues 
of Reason, Courage and Self-Control that go along with the system as it was 
originally presented, feel free to do so. Complete Mind’s Eye Theatre rules for 
Humanity and these accompanying Virtues (substitute Reason for Conscience) 
canbefoundonpp. 75-6and 108-1 lOofLawsof theNight; theserulescan easily 
be converted to run with the original bystander Conviction system. Alternately, 
ambitious conversion types can attempt to work out something with the 
streamlined Humanity system presented in Laws of the Hunt, pp. 138-139. 
Each version has possible advantages and disadvantages; ultimately it’s up to the 
Storyteller to decide which system works best for her game and go with it. 
i
b 
f 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


Abilities and Bachgrcunds 
Bystanders can generally pick the same Abilities and Backgrounds as the 
imbued, with a few exceptions. Bystanders normally cannot possess the Aware- 
ness Ability unless they have some means of accessing the sight; additionally, the 
Storyteller may rule that some Backgrounds such as Pawon, Fraternity or others 
dealing specifically with the imbued are off-limits to bystanders, at her discre- 
tion. 
Merits and Flaws 
The following Merits and Flaws are intended to be taken by bystanders only, 
although the Storyteller may allow imbued characters to take slightly modified 
versions of the Hunted, Nervous Condition, Broken Health or Nemesis Flaws at her 
discretion. The other Traits are either redundant and/or pointless for the 
imbued, and should not be permitted barring truly exceptional circumstances. 
Supernatural Affinity (1 Trait Merit) 
Although the thought of monsters stalking the world fills you with horrible 
anxiety, at the same time you can’t stop thinking about it, and instinctively find 
yourself searching for signs of the supernatural. In particular, you possess a 
unique ability to sense the presence of one type of supernatural creature, most 
likely the type you encountered during your failed imbuing. Whenever that 
variety of monster enters your immediate vicinity, you are immediately filled 
with feelings of dread, anger or even desire (depending on how your first 
encounter went) - 
while you may not realize what these feelings mean at first, 
over time you can learn what they signify and react accordingly. Note that this 
quality does not activate when a creature is using supernatural power to conceal 
itself (that is the Penetrate Illusion Merit, below), nor is it fine-tuned enough to 
allow you to track very effectively, or pick a creature out of a crowded room. 
However, spirits do trigger this quality even if they’re not visible to regular sight, 
unless they have used extra supernatural powers to conceal themselves further. 
The Word (1 Trait Merit) 
You can recognize, understand and write the hunter code just as the imbued 
do. You may read cards with the hunter code on them that you find during play, 
as well as write such cards. 
Penetrate Illusion (1-3 Trait Merit) 
The revelation of the supernatural world and how it goes unnoticed by the 
majority of humanity has shaken you badly, and left you constantly checking and re- 
checking your perceptions for signs that they might have been supernaturally altered 
in some fashion. Fortunately, this has given you a limited ability to pierce supernatural 
powers of concealment and illusion; by making a Willpower Test (difficulty depending 
on the nature of the illusion and how suspicious your character is), you may penetrate 
one such power. Note that this may require you to spend a Willpower Trait to avoid 
losing control due to supernatural fear if you perceive a particularly hideous creature, 
and the Storyteller may rule that some illusions require a test to avoid losing a 
Conviction Trait - 
even seeing through them means that you have confronted 
something blatantly unnatural. Note that this does not allow you to perceive spirits 
that have not made themselves visible in the material world, nor does it allow you to 
perceive a spirit possessing a host body. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I--- 
The number of Traits spent on this Merit determine the power of the 
illusions that you can penetrate. For one Trait, you may see through Basic-level 
illusions, for two Traits, you may see through Basic- and Intermediate-level 
illusions, and for three Traits you can penetrate illusions up to the Advanced 
level. 
The Sight (1-3 Trait Merit) 
Maybe the Heralds are trying to steer you in the right direction, or perhaps 
they’ve decided to punish you for failing, but either way you’ve been given ability 
of the sight like true imbued. How active the sight is depends on how much you 
spend on this Merit - 
for one Trait it is always on, which may quickly eat away 
at your Conviction and Willpower as you are constantly inundated with horrific 
visions. For two Traits it is generally under your control, hut may sometimes 
spontaneously activate at the Storyteller’s discretion (generally in the presence 
of the same sort of creatures that you faced during your failed imbuing). With 
three Traits, it is completely under your control. Regardless of whether you spent 
two or three Traits, however, both activating and deactivating the sight requires 
either a Willpower Challenge or the expenditure of a Willpower Trait. Note that 
this does not protect you against mind or emotion control, supernatural fear, or 
allow you to penetrate illusions in any way (though if you have the capability to 
do so you may activate such additional protection as well). Likewise, all that your 
sight tells you is that a supernatural being is different - 
it does not necessarily 
provide any clues as to what specific kind of monster it might be, just that it isn’t 
right. 
Cannot Become Monster ( 3  Trait Merit) 
For one reason or another, the protection against supernatural turning and 
corruption that the Heralds provide the imbued has been extended to you as well 
- 
you cannot become a ghoul or he blood bound, nor can you acquire magic or 
psychic powers of any kind, and any attempts to make you into a vampire kill you 
instead. Additionally, you will never rise as a ghost or one of the walking dead. 
(At least the next life will offer you some peace.) This does not provide 
protection against mental control, fear or possession, though. Additionally, 
whether or not you’re aware of your immaculate state is up to you and the 
Storyteller to determine - it’s quite possible that you might only recognize the 
benefits of this Merit posthumously! 
Resistant to Supernatural Fear ( 3  Trait Merit) 
No matter what else might have happened, you survived an experience that 
would have reduced most people to hysterics without losing it - 
or maybe you 
did break down in the face of overwhelming terror, but have since built yourself 
back up stronger than before. In any case, you may attempt to resist supernatural 
fear with a successful Willpower Challenge against three Traits - if successful, 
you need not spend Willpower to resist supernatural fear for the rest of the scene. 
This ability is reflexive and does not count as an action. You may also spend a 
Willpower Trait normally if the test fails, in order to retain control in the face 
of terror. It should he noted that you might still lose Conviction Traits or he 
forced to spend Willpower Traits later on in the scene - 
being immunized to 
supernatural fear doesn’t mean that horrific scenes can’t still damage you, just 
that you have a better chance of resisting the urge to bolt right off the hat. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


1
Resistant to Mind Control ( 3  Trait Merit) 
Faced with the reality that monsters have the ability to steal into the very 
minds of their victims and take control of their thoughts and emotions, you have 
subsequently built up a powerful inner defense against having your will stolen in 
such a fashion. Any time you are targeted by such powers, you may immediately 
make a Willpower Test against three Traits - 
if successful, you are considered 
to be immune to such powers for the rest of the scene, just as if you’d spent a 
Willpower Trait for the hardened spirit. This ability is reflexive and does not 
count as an action. You may also spend a Willpower Trait normally if the test 
fails, as though activating the hardened spirit normally. Note that this does not 
confer any resistance to illusions or supernatural fear. Additionally, if a long- 
term subservience power is successfully used against you in one scene, it is up to 
the Storyteller to determine whether that connection is lessened or broken when 
you activate this ability or your regular hardened spirit later on - summoning 
your will to fight some menace might suddenly shock you into the realization 
that you’ve been under the influence of another creature’s powers for some time! 
Unshakable (3, 5 or 7 Trait Merit) 
Although you are still in danger of gradually losing your Conviction and 
thus your sanity from exposure to monsters and horrifying events, for some 
reason you have an easier time handling such trauma than others. Perhaps you 
were a coroner or soldier who saw a lot of grisly things before your failed imbuing, 
Conviction loss, 
explanation for how you failed your imbuing with such good nerves). 
As this Merit can sometimes make it too easy to avoid losing Conviction, 
players should consult the Storyteller before taking this Merit, as she may adjust 
its cost or even prohibit it outright if it goes against the mood of the chronicle. 
Note: Despite some similarities, this Merit has nothing to do with the Steel 
Nerves Background, nor does that Background offer any kind of benefit in regards 
to resisting Conviction loss. However, it is very appropriate for a character with 
one Trait to have the other as well. 
True Faith (7 Trait Merit) 
True Faith is belief in a power, entity, consciousness - 
sometimes even a 
purpose - that is greater than oneself, and as such it is not limited to any 
particular religion. However, only the truly selfless, caring, compassionate and 
courageous have a chance at possessing True Faith, and the Storyteller is 
encouraged to be as strict as possible in seeing that those characters with this 
Merit live and breathe their faith every hour of every day. Simply going to church 
a lot or being convinced that God exists is not enough to earn True Faith (or it 
would be a lot more common). Indeed, most imbued will only come across True 
Faith if they encounter the righteous warriors of the Inquisition or somehow 
1
1 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


I I I I 
I 
t 
111 
come across those rare individuals who have heard a different kind of higher call 
and devoted themselves to it. 
Unless the Storyteller specifically allows it, true imbued cannot possess True 
Faith at all - 
something about their connection to the Heralds seems to preclude 
such a beatific connection to the divine. (Rather, use the Religious Devotion 
Merit to represent imbued with abiding faith.) This decision is geared toward 
play balance if nothing else - 
imbued have a number of powers and advantages 
as it is without the extra power True Faith offers, and allowing them access to yet 
another powerful trait can easily tilt things far too heavily in their favor. On the 
other hand, bystanders may occasionally display True Faith, though it tends to be 
rare given the uncertainty and loss of confidence that often accompanies their 
experience with the imbuing. However, some bystanders find that their faith 
carries them through the difficult time surrounding their new life, and a blessed 
few develop such faith in response to their failure in an attempt at atonement. 
The game uses for True Faith are covered exhaustively in Laws of the Hunt; 
however, a couple of basic rules for Faith are included here. 
By brandishing his holy symbol, the bearer gains the Social Trait Intimi- 
dating when repelling undead and warding off supernatural powers. If used to 
strike a supernatural creature, a holy symbol grants the extra Physical Traits 
Burning and Searing, and inflicts one level of aggravated damage. 
A character with True Faith may attempt to repel vampires or zombies by 
brandishing his holy symbol, invoking his belief (“In the name of 
, I 
command you to be gone,” etc.), and employing a Social Challenge. Success 
means the creature must flee the area immediately. Failure means the beast must 
still back off a few feet and cower before taking action, and the next turn the 
monster still may not initiate any attacks, although she may defend herself 
normally. A creature may only resist this use of Faith by attempting to overbid 
with Willpower; if she currently possesses at least twice as many Willpower 
Traits as the Faithful character, she remains unaffected. A character may 
attempt to repel multiple creatures with a group challenge. 
A character with True Faith may trade a Faith Trait for a Willpower Trait, 
in essence drawing on the power of her Faith to give her resolve to carry on. This 
can be done no more than once per session, and Faith Traits spent in this fashion 
require the usual period of atonement to restore. 
Characters may only improve their Faith with truly inspiring and dedicated 
roleplaying, as determined by the Storyteller. On the other hand, it is much 
easier to lose Faith than gain it; any time a character fails a test in which True 
Faith was involved, he has a crisis of faith. During such a time, he is one Trait 
down on all Social Challenges for the remainder of the scene and unable to 
invoke his Faith again until that Faith Trait has been restored (Narrator’s 
discretion). This Merit confers one Faith Trait; additional Faith Traits cannot 
be purchased with Experience, only be earned through roleplaying, and only the 
most saintly individuals will have more than four or five Faith Traits. 
Haunted (1-3 Trait Flaw) 
You might have turned your back on the Heralds, but they haven’t forgotten 
you - 
horrific visions and whispered voices haunt you constantly, imparting the 
strange will of the Messengers and occasionally urging to take a particular course 
of action. Perhaps they intend to give you a second chance to make a difference, 
or maybe they’re punishing you for trying to abandon the cause, but either way 
i
b P 
f 
1I
1
I I
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


-I 
they don’t seem like they’re going to leave you alone. The exact frequency of 
visitation depends on how many Traits the Flaw is worth; for one Trait you are 
contacted infrequently, perhaps only in the immediate vicinity of a monster, and 
receive only limited information such as the revelation of a monster’s true nature 
and a plan of action. At three Traits, you are contacted on a daily basis, and must 
sometimes endure lengthy or extremely graphic visions regarding the creatures 
around you. Finally, for five Traits, the torment is nearly constant (and should 
be roleplayed accordingly); while useful information can certainly be gained this 
way, the sheer volume of communication often makes it difficult to interpret the 
signal-to-noise ratio. 
In game terms, a hunter is considered down between one and three Traits on all 
tests while he is being contacted by the Heralds (which is seldom a convenient time), 
depending on the severity of the Flaw. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this penalty and 
the associated contact may be temporarily reduced if the bystander acts in accordance 
with what the Heralds seem to want, though this may reduce the Flaw to a rather 
simplistic level if not handled correctly. 
Hunted (1 or 4 Trait Flaw) 
Here’s the good news: you survived your contact with the Heralds. Here’s the bad 
news: so did the creature you encountered, and it has decided that what you’ve seen 
or what you know means you must be killed. It cannot be reasoned with, bought off 
or otherwise pacified - 
it will not stop until you are dead, and even if it is killed it 
might have friends or allies who will carry on its quest to see you destroyed. Exactly how 
powerful the creature is and how dedicated it is to the hunt depends on the value of 
the Flaw. For one Trait, you are either pursued by a relatively weak monster that 
devotes nearly all of its time to planning your demise, or a moderately powerful 
creature that pursues you when it’s convenient or you happen to cross its path. For four 
Traits, you either have a moderately powerful creature pursuing your undoing with 
every waking moment it can spare, or you are considered a troublesome loose end by 
a very powerful and influential creature. Obviously, this Flaw can only be taken with 
Storyteller approval, as the efforts of this monster can very well spill over into the rest 
of the chronicle as a whole. 
Nervous Condition (2 Trait Flaw) 
The trauma of your exposure to the supernatural has left you with deep mental 
scars, which manifest physically as chronic ailments that impair your everyday life and 
flare up even worse when you are under stress (and encountering the supernatural 
certainly counts as such). Your hands and feet tremble almost constantly, and you 
suffer a one-Trait penalty on all tasks involving fine motor control, balance, move- 
ment or combat. Additionally, if you are surprised (or Surprised) by a sudden turn of 
events, you suffer an additional one-Trait penalty on all relevant tests due to your 
inability to react well to such stimuli. Needless to say, this condition should also be 
roleplayed as well as possible without being offensive, and Storyteller should feel free 
impose additional penalties or dock a character a Willpower Trait for battling ther 
symptoms if she fails to portray her condition appropriately. 
Broken Health (3 or 5 Trait Flaw) 
Living with the knowledge of the supernatural and the terrible toll it exacts from 
humanity may not have broken your sanity (yet.. .), but it has certainly done terrible 
things to your body, robbing you of energy and vitality that might never return. At 
three Traits, you may not never possess more than five Physical Traits, not even with 
Experience Traits or hunter edges, and you are one Trait down on all tests related to 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


c
endurance or resisting damage. For five Traits, you suffer all of the above effects, but 
you also heal slower than others, at roughly one and a half times the normal rate, and 
you may never purchase or benefit from the Rejuvenate edge (though other healing 
edges function normally). 
Nemesis (3 or 5 Trait Flaw) 
Most of the time the imbuing occurs to one person alone, placing the weight of 
doing the right thing squarely on her shoulders, but in your case it happened to a group 
of people all at once, or perhaps you awakened to the truth in the midst of a firefight 
between monsters and full imbued. In either event, your hesitation somehow proved 
the deciding factor in allowing the monster to turn the tables on the hunters, and one 
or more of the surviving imbued has become obsessed with taking revenge on you for 
allowing this to happen. Actual guilt or innocence doesn’t matter much- even if you 
did the best you could, the imbued after you considers your actions to have been pure 
cowardice and won’t respond to negotiation or bribery of any kind. The number of 
Traits spent determine how powerful your stalker is and/or how much time he 
dedicates to taking revenge on you. At the Storyteller’s option, it might be possible to 
placate the hunter somehow, but only if you’re willing to meet his price.. . and chances 
are that such a cost would be high indeed. 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1


- Laws of the Night Revised 
Laws of Ascension 
1-56504-589-0 
1-58846-500-4 
- Laws of Ascension Companion 
1-58846-5 16-0 
Laws of the East 
Laws of the Hunt Revised Edition 
Laws of the Reckoning 
1-56504-730-3 
1-58846-51 1-X 
1-58846-5 15-2 
- Laws of the Resurrection 
(5013) 
$19.95 US 
(5022) 
$19.95 US 
(5033) 
$17.95 US 
(5016) 
$17.95 US 
(5032) 
$19.95 US 
(5037) 
$19.95 US 
(5035) 
1-58846-5 13-6 
$19.95 US 
- Laws of the Wild Revised 
(5022) 
1-58846-501 -2 
$19.95 US 
- Laws of the Wyld West 
(5004) 
1-56504-504- 1 
$14.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: Book of the Wyrm 
(5029) 
1-58846-507- 1 
$15.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: Dark Epics 
(5027) 
1-58846-506-3 
$12.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre Gift Deck 
(5183) 
$14.95 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: The Camarilla Guide 
(5017) 
1-56504-73 1-1 
$14.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: The Changing Breeds (Vol 1) (5019) 
1-56504-733-8 
$14.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: The Changing Breeds (Vol2) (5024) 
1-58846-502-0 
$14.95 US 
- Mind’s Eye Theatre: The Changing Breeds (Vol3) (5034) 
1-58846-5 12-8 
$17.95 US 
Mind’s Eye Theatre: The Sabbat Guide 
(5018) 
1-56504-732-X 
$14.95 US 
Mind’s Eye Theatre Discipline Deck 
(5181) 
1-56504-698-6 
$14.95 US 
Mind’s Eye Theatre Prop Deck 
(5 180) 
1-56504-679-X 
$14.95 US 
- Shining Host, The 
(5009) 
Shining Host Players Guide, The 
(5030) 
1-58846-508-X 
$15.95 US 
- Vampire Storyteller Guide 
(5021) 
1-58846-503-9 
$15.95 US 
for more information visit us online ut: 
1-56504-5 10-6 
$15.00 us 
William Burgess (order #58817)
1
