I I  
I
i
 
11 
KS 


c 
L 
A 
L
ISAN 1-56504-777-X 
WW5401 $7 95 U S 
- --15h' I 
.. 
---n l
5


BECAUSE T H E  MIND’S EYE NEVER B L I N K S  


CREDITS 
Authors: Charles Bailey, Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Shane De Freest, Jess Heinig 
and Lindsay Woodcock 
Developer: Carl Bowen 
Editor: Ken Cliffe 
Art Director: Rich Thomas 
Photographer: J.P. Rhea 
Front and Back Cover Design: Matt Milberger 
Layout and Typesetting: Matt Milberger 
S P E C I A L  
THANKS 
Andrew “Why are you talking?” Bates, for making me feel like part of the family. 
Rich “Fed-Ex” Dansky, for exploiting an intern who can’t pack a box. 
Ed “Two Fatal Errors” Hall, for giving me a chance anyway. 
Ken “Elephant Man” Cliffe, for my second editing test. And for liking peanuts. 
Jess “Invisible Gryphons” Heinig, for at least giving me something to work with. 
Justin R. “I’m sexy” Achilli, for making the Sabbat Guide.. . interesting. 
And to Phil Brucato, Allison Sturms, Cary Goff, Ian Lemke and Jane Palmer, for all the 
wonders you have yet to discover. 
0 1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Reproduction without 
the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes 
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, 
which may be reproduced for personal use 
only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, 
Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension 
and World of Darkness are registered trade- 
marks ofWhite Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith 
the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Trinity, Mind’s Eye 
Theatre Journal, Laws of the Night, Savage West, Laws of the Wild, Laws of the Wyld West, 
Laws of the Hunt, Oblivion, Antagonists, Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand and The Shining 
Host are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, 
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a 
challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural forsettings, characters and themes. All mystical and 
supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader 
discretion is advised. 
735 PARK NORTH BLVD. 
SUITE 128 
QJRKIJON, CA 30021 
USA 
C A M E  S T U D I O  
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN THE USA. 


actually swing the sword yourself,” they informed me. “And you throw beanbags 
at each other, too.” 
I, in my infinite wisdom at the time, responded, “AD@D? What’s that, a 
Dungeons €4 Dragons knock-off? How obvious can you get?” 
Deciding then that perhaps sword-and-sorcery-type LARPs were not exactly my 
bag, my acquaintances told me that they participated in another game in which all 
conflicts and confrontations were resolved by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors -that 
there wasn’t so much of the socking-each-other-with-the-padded-pipes business. 
That type of game seemed a little more my speed, so they loaned me a battered copy 
of Vampire: The Masquerade as “reference material,” and off I went. 
Unfortunately, I fell out of touch with my two erstwhile gamer buddies shortly 
after returning their book to them, and I didn’t do much roleplaying until college 
(though other friends of mine and I did make our own padded swords and hack at 
each other when the need - 
and our raging, unrequited hormones - 
overtook us 
and we had to vent or die). 
In college, I got a slightly better education in the fine points of tabletop 
roleplaying (“Boy, this When Will You Rage anthology iscool. I wonder what it’s like 
to be one of these werewolves.. ..”), and I discovered a troupe of live-action garners 
on campus. I’d actually been in a Vampire tabletop game or two by this point, so 
naturally I was ready to go. I spent my first couple of live-action games wandering 
from character concept to character concept until I happened upon something I 
liked and stuck with it. I was concurrently involved in increasingly more complex 
and mature tabletop roleplaying games, and I was thoroughly hooked by the end 
of my senior year. I loved the World of Darkness, favored Vampire and Werewolf, 
and adored the live-action expression of those two games. 
So, after college, on a whim, I sent my r6sum6 to White Wolf (among other 
publishing companies across the state) and waited to see if there might be a job for 
me. As luck would have it, my gaming experience (and my preference for White 
Wolfs material) complemented my editing skills, and I landed a job as an editor. 
Three short months later, my manager (or Derfishinkanadian, Hew Cliffe, as I call 
him when he’s well out of earshot) offered me the chance to develop this quarterly. 
It’s a perfect match, actually. I’ve come a long way from the “How in the world 
could you have a die with only four sides?“ high schooler to the publisher-gamer I 
am now. Likewise, MET has come a long way from its boxed-set roots. The game 
and its systems will continue to change, and as I grow and change with it, I’ll keep 
you all up to date. If you have questions, comments, advice, death threats (or pretty 
much whatever), let me know. I’m always here, 24 hours aday (though I only answer 
e-mail in an eight-hour block between 9:OO and 5:00), and I’d love to hear from you. 
Carl Bowen 
carl@white-wolf.com 


THF CURRFNT 
THINKINCj 


sacrifices roleplaying (and thus the entire purpose of LARP ... which contrary to 
popular belief is NOT to “beat shit up”) for the ability to create characters who are more 
complicated than they are in the tabletop games? Why not use some facade of “realism” 
(used in quotes because it is, after all, roleplaying) and get Camarilla-certified so you 
can be intelligent roleplayers and not absurd rules-mongers? I know lots of great 
unsanctioned games that are good because the roleplaying is good, not because lots of 
big vampires run around and diablerize each other. 
Paul Daniel Bond 
The following responses folloru the basic e-mail reply format of cite the 
original text aside and arguing point by point. 
Mister Bond, 
Why in the name of all that is (or is not) holy have you adopted this over- 
complicated system that sacrifices the roleplaying (and thus the entire purpose 
of LARP ... )? 
So we should jump on the Mind’s Eye Theatre bandwagon and just say to hell 
with clearly defined rules? The live-action environment is, if anything, more 
complicated than tabletop. It demands a more comprehensive rules system. 
Why not use some facade of “realism” (used in quotes because it is, after 
all, roleplaying) and get Camarilla-certified so you can be intelligent roleplayers 
and not absurd rules-mongers? 
So since we’re not in the Camarilla, we’re not cool? 
Talk about complex. I for one don’t want to have to certify my plotlines just 
Steve McDonald - 
Athens by Night Storyteller 
so I can become one with White Wolfs fan club. 
After a personal e-mail back from Bond (in bold). 
[Daniel], 
I have played with both the Mind’s Eye Theatre system and our system. I 
understand that one of the reasons that Mind’s Eye combat is so poorly defined is 
because combat isdiscouraged. I think this is a bad idea, as combat is, in many ways, 
inevitable in the World of Darkness. Dark forces collide and destroy one another. 
Part of the problem here is that a lot of what would be background in a tabletop 
game (behind-the-scenes strikes by underlings/ lackeys/ ghouls) must be carried 
out by players in live-action. 
You can’t just stick your head in the sand and say “combat sucks” and hope it 
won’t happen. Roleplaying is the center of anything we do. But if you leave a 
section of the rules poorly defined simply because you don’t like it, then it will come 
back to haunt you. 
Tehehe. You make me sound like an elitist and that makes me smile. The 
Camarilla wants you to certify plotlines so bullshit like rampant Masquerade- 
breaches (and I KNOW you have a massive problem with that, to the point that 
a justicar threatened to kick you out of the Camarilla if they weren’t stopped), 


unrealistic gaming (your disproportionate number of Kindred, your Nosferatu 
prince, your propensity for including wererats, werespiders and lots of other 
rare creatures into your game), and general stupidity. 
1) We,asStorytellers,sentanarchon(notajusticar) 
into thegame inthelast session. 
2 )  ( h e  of the things that makes Athens by Night an exciting and interesting 
game is the fact that we break out of the form that every other Vampire LARP has 
set. How many times can you come into a seven-clan game with a Ventrue prince and 
little or no outside supernatural presence (which seems to be stock-in-trade for every 
other LARP in the whole wide world) and not get bored? 
We’re an alternative. Part of being an alternative is doing things differently. 
Once word of Steve and Daniel’s argument got out to the greater Athens by 
Night e-mail list, others registered their opinions. 
1’11 jump in here: 
The point of a LARP is just that: to roleplay in live action. Period. The 
purpose is not to “beat shit up” (I’ll say this once again as you ignored it the first 
time. If it were, you would be right. Since it is not, I am right. 
The purpose [of Athens by Night] is not just to roleplay. Ifwe wanted that, we 
would conduct a play. [ABN] is a game, as well as a roleplaying event. The goal is 
to balance the roleplaying and game aspects. This is hard, and different LARPs 
strike a different balance. But that doesn’t make one LARP more “right” than 
another. 
It’s just different, that’s all. 
Richard Coleman 
I 
And so did others. 
[Mister Bond], 
Roleplaying is almost entirely based on the non-rules related aspects of the game. 
Whether the rules say I must play Rock-Paper-Scissors to do challenges, or play entire 
games of Monopoly to do so, I can roleplay whatever I desire. I can be asmarmy Ventrue 
car dealer or I can be a pissy, stupid Scottish kilt-wearin’ Brujah. 
... ( and thus the entire purpose of LARP.. . which contrary to popular belief 
is NOT to “beat shit up”) ... 
Purpose of a LARP? Who says so... Yahweh? What if in the course of 
roleplaying, I decide to beat shit up? Am I not allowed? It’s my shit, after all. 
Besides, being Camarilla-certified is no guarantee of being an intelligent roleplayer. 
Roleplaying (and rules-mongering) is in the individual player, not the rules. The 
Masquerade Second Edition and Laws of the Night are each twice the length of 
AIT’s rules [AIT is another independent LARP run in Atlanta], and I know we 
are at least neck and neck with ABN. If you need your rules to be custom tailored 
as your roleplayingcrutch, feel free to find agame that suits you. Meanwhile, I don’t 
tell the Iranians how to run their country.. . because I don’t live there and they 
don’t directly affect any of my interests. Why does this seem to bother you so? 
Scott McDaniel, Atlanta Interactive Theater 


F U R T H E R  FUEL 
Two wery different wiewpoints; two opinions with the same 
answer. Both say their system leaves the chaff behind andmakes 
way for roleplaying .... What’s your opinion? Are the MET rules 
too complicated, oversimplified or just right? How far can we 
reasonably expect you to stretch our “Cjolden Rule” to adapt the 
rules for your setting? How far is too far before you lose the 
roleplaying and Storytelling aspects that make our games what 
they are? Let me hear from you! 
Youcane-mail youranswers to these points, or opinionsonsubjects 
White Wolf Publishing Inc. 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal 
735 Park North Blud. 
Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
USA 
of your choosing to carlawhite-wolf.com, or mil them to: 


DFADCjUY 
- 
SPFAKS 
Rich has been a part of White Wolf since just 
shortly before Christ crawkd from the primordial 
ocean at Cyprus. He has developed Mind’s Eye 
Theatre, Wraith: The Oblivion and Vampire: 
The Dark Ages. Watchfor this column to showcase 
Rich’s unique insight, wit, observations on life in 
general, and (should we be so lucky) his views on 
Mind’s Eye Theatre development. In his first col- 
umn, Rich relates the tak of how Mind’s Eye came 
into its current incamtion. 
CHAPTER 
ONE: YOUR 
LAWS, 
MY TRICEPS 
It all started because my arm got tired. Honest. I couldn’t make this stuff up if I wanted to. 
ItwasNovember, 1995. I’d just come on board as the developer for Wraith: The Oblivion 
andMind’s Eye Theatre, and I was about to get shipped off to my first convention appearance. 
The place: Kansas City. The convention: Shauncon. The reason I was there: I was the first 
developer our con-support guy saw (the others having heard his ominous footsteps and gone 
to ground until he had seized another victim. Picture the dinosaur sequence in Fantasia - 
the 
one in which the stegosaurus gets it in the neck - 
and you’ve pretty much got the idea). 
The folks at Shauncon were very friendly and helpful, and they got in touch with me well 
before the event to see what I’d be interested indoing, what I’d like to see, and so on; they were 
perfect hosts. As part of that conversation, they mentioned that they had a long-running 
Masquerade game, a chapter of which would take place at the convention, and that they’d 
written a special-guest part that they’d love to have me play. So if I could just see my way clear 
to popping into character for a few hours Saturday night.. .. 
“Sure,” I said. “It sounds great! Let me know what sort of character it is, so I can bring 
appropriate costuming.” 
Well, that’s what I said out loud. Internally, I was screaming. “What are you doing? What 
if you make a mistake? You’we newer played anything besldes a Tor& 
with a goofy accent! What 
if you screw up - 
they’ll lose all respect for you and the product line! AAAAAGGHHHH!” 
(Mind you, this whole thing took place before I was informed that White Wolfdevelopers 
are supposed to spend conventions drunk and surly at hotel bars, as opposed to playing in games. 
I have since had my misapprehension corrected and can now be found at most major 
conventions sitting in the corner of the local watering hole, guzzling various unidentifiable 
fluids and channeling my inner black-clad hooligan. He likes Amaretto Sours and Purpom hard 
cider, in case you feel like bribing him.) 
So I fortified myself for the potentially traumatic experience. Armed with the proper 
equipment ( IO-foot pole, a dozen iron spikes, 50 feet of rope and a .22 automatic), I descended 
into the “Out of Print” pile in the warehouse in hopes of excavating a copy of the Players Kit. 
Why? Because I was going to be playing a Giovanni - 
and at the time we had no rules for 


playing Giclvanni in print. Oops. “This is probably something I should rectify,” I said to myself, 
even as I hacked my way through the tentacled nasties who guarded the piles ofbooks I needed. 
Emerging victorious, I sat down in my office with my prize and a copy of Masquerade 2nd 
Edition (not to mention Antagonists and, for some unknown reason, The Book of Props) and 
started reading. My goal was to memorize every single word of all of those books before I got on 
the plane for Kansas City. So I read. And I read. And then I read some more. My e-mail account 
clogged. My mailbox overflowed. Dirty dishes in my sink at home began breathing, developed 
language skills and voted to secede from my apartment. In the end, though, it was worth it - 
I managed to get every single word of those suckers down. I was a walking encyclopedia of rules 
knowledge. Headheldhigh, I tookmyseaton theaircraft, settled inwithaThomasLigottishort- 
story collection, and let the friendly skies convey me to where I was going. 
And somewhere over Tennessee, I managed to forget every blessed word I’d read. 
So, to make a long story short (too late, I know), I arrived safely in KC, but as a virtual 
tabula rasa of live-action information. The game rolled around. I did the only thing I could. 
I tucked the entire MET library under my arm for reference, muttered a swift prayer and went 
off to play. (No one really needs to hear about the steakhouse meeting with the vegetarian 
who’d thrown his front door onto the fireplace for warmth, the funky chickeneers at the 
wedding next door, the bar band‘s salsa-flavored rendition of Van Morrison’s Greatest Hits, 
or about the half-dozen or so gamers whom I found strewn across my hotel room, asleep, 
Saturday morning. Caveat: I’d never met any of them before, I haven’t seen any of them 
since, I have no idea what any of their names were, and the only concrete fact I have about 
the matter was the knowledge that at least three of them snored like a goddamned bandsaw 
factory on swing shift.) 
Five hours later, I was back in my hotel room with one noticeable difference. (Okay, 
two - 
I’d cleaned the gamers out.) My right arm, the one I’d used to carry the books, was 
about two inches longer than the left, and it felt like someone had emphatically and 
repeatedly mistaken it for a large, pinkish piece of linguine. Oh, the game had gone well - 
I’d wandered into town, made my introductions, acquired the ridiculously powerful magical 
whosits that I was supposed to remove from play, mucked with a few of the more uppity 
players and then strolled off into the night. My mission was accomplished, my work was 
done, and I’d managed to avoid being asked any questions I couldn’t answer. 
But boy, was my arm tired. The longer I sat there thinking about it, the more I realized 
that the situation simply wasn’t satisfactory. The books were heavy and awkward, and they 
simply looked out of place next to costuming. Players who had made the investment in 
tuxedos or evening gowns, or even just the investment of time and effort to look right for 
their characters, deserved better than to be weighted down with a stack of 8.5-by-1 I-inch 
green books. The old format was simply too obtrusive, and it did too much to shatter the 
game’s illusion. 
Besides, my arm was tired. I had no intention of ever lugging that many books around 
for that long in that heavy a jacket again. (Costuming note for all you would-be Giovanni 
out there: Black‘s a great color for dressing up, but when the only black clothes you have are 
wool, it’s okay to vary things a little. Even in November. Trust me.) 
So I started thinking. Problem#l was that the books were physically awkward. Problem 
#2 was that necessary material wasn’t available to players. Problem #3 was that, and I have 
to be honest here, the rules didn’t work terribly well. (Yeah, I know, they’re still not perfect, 
but we’re trying here. Honest.) Scattered over three books and two editions, drawn from 
dozens of sources, the rules often contradicted one another, making it necessary for folks to 
tote around hundreds of pages worth of Photoshop-bespangled reference material. 


Something clearly had to be done. So Sunday night, I sat down with the two gentlemen who 
ran the game I’d played in, and over friendly conversation, I floated the idea. “What would you 
guys think,” I said -“and this is just an idea, mind you - 
of a pocket-sized rulebook for Mind’s 
Eye Theatre? None of the storytelling material, minimal background - 
just the rules in a size 
that you could carry with you and that you could tuck into a pocket when you weren’t using it.” 
For what it’s worth, they liked the idea. I can’t tell you exactly what they said (partially 
because I’m not sure I can quote it accurately, partially because the things I can remember to 
quote accurately aren’t necessarily printable in a family roleplaying journal), but they liked it. 
If they hadn’t, I probably would have scrapped the whole idea and gone back to figure out how 
many curls I would have needed to do in order to prep for the next game. But armed with a 
mandate from folks who were elbow-deep in the game, and who knew what they needed to 
make their games run more smoothly, I could go back home and set up the project (that is, after 
the incident with the massive hangover, the Star Wars‘ line designer, the ship’s bell and the 
approximately 4000 miniatures). 
Ittookawhile, andit tooksomeconvincing.The ideaofapocketguide-justrules, nothing 
else - 
was so contrary to what we’d done before that some folks were skeptical of it. I knew the 
idea was a good one, though, and once I noted to People in High Places that we wouldn’t be 
incurring any new writing costs on the book, I got the green light. That’s when the fun started. 
Initially, the idea of the book was simply to cut and paste the rules files from the old books 
into the new one. It would be easy, fast and useful - 
and it would save my sanity, because I was 
working on Wraith 2nd Edition at the same time. Unfortunately, this simple plan ran into a few 
snags. First of all, the files for the Players Kit were nowhere to be found. While I could do without 
the print specs for the blood capsules that were included in the original box, I did sort of need the 
files for the lesser clans, their Disciplines and all of the other crunchy goodness that needed to go 
into the book. Eventually the diskette with the required files turned up. (If I remember correctly, 
it was in the Marketing department, filed with the details of the White Wolf Microbrewery idea 
that thankfully never got off the ground, and was labeled “I Gotcher Barney DoomWADs Right 
Here.” But I could be mistaken.) Pulling up the files led to problem number two: They were amess. 
I mean, I knew there were a few discrepancies between The Masquerade and the Vampire 
Players Guide, but once I started digging in, I realized that more work was needed. A lot more 
work. As a matter of fact, so much work was needed that I had no idea where to start. There 
was only one thing to do: Go back to the source. 
I bundled myselffor the Atlanta winter (yep, that meant a longsleeve shirt and jeans) and 
headed off to the Red Light Caf6, where the local Vampire LARP crowd hung out on Tuesday 
nights. I sat down at a table and snagged random passersby, asking them what they felt needed 
changing; scoping out which rules needed to be cleaned up or explicated better. 
Hoo boy, did I get anearful. Three hours later, I staggeredoutunder theweightofmynotes. 
Then, masochist that I am, I fired up the computer and asked the same questions offriends who 
played MET all over the continent. The response was avalanche-like in its volume, intensity 
and ambient temperature. People had a lot of concerns. Even worse, a great many of those 
concerns and proposed fixes contradicted each other. It was hopeless. So I did what any sane 
man would do in that sort of situation. I screamed for help. 
Help arrived in the form of Editrix (no, that’s not a dirty word, and get your minds out of 
the gutter, you filthy-headed brutes) Cynthia Summers, whose experience with actual Mind’s 
Eye gameplay dwarfed mine, and who had long since set herself up as the Cerberus of MET. 
Nothing that saw print for the line escaped her baleful gaze - 
which was a good thing for me. 
We sat down with the old files, copious notes, e-mails and a healthy supply of caffeinated 


beverages, and we decided which changes needed to be made, whose ideas for fixes were worth 
following up on, and whom we were going to pummel senseless when the process was all over. 
I also had the unenviable task ofdecidingprecisely what material went into the book. The 
basic clans and Disciplines? They had to be in there. The Sabbat? Sort of a necessity, I thought. 
Minor clans and bloodlines? Well, they weren’t available anywhere else. Other Disciplines? If 
the clans were going to be in there, the appropriate rules had to be as well. Background? At least 
some, for new players just picking up the book. The basics of the game? Indubitably. A little 
bit ofcommon-sense warning? A necessity, in light of all the rumbles about PTAs and religious- 
watchdog groups hassling MET games. A FAQ? Considering the number of changes we’d 
made, it sort of had to go in there. 
You see how books get big, fast? Suddenly a 50,000-wordcut-and-paste job had turned into 
a 110,000-word monstrosity. Some things got cut out of the draft - 
there was no choice if we 
wanted it to fit between two covers- but still, it remained a towering, imposing pile of verbiage. 
A month or so later, a manuscript emerged. With much fanfare and other goofiness, it 
went through the copy-editing process - 
multiple times - 
and eventually emerged into the 
light of Production and layout. 
Those ofyou with long memories might note that Laws of the Night was the first of the MET 
books to not have acover adorned with photographs and Photoshop. Rather, the book‘s cover has 
a subdued gray marble background and little else - 
just logos (which are something of a design 
necessity). That was deliberate. The idea (hashed out in many discussions with the talented Mr. 
Larry Snelly and Ms. Katie McCaskill, who laid out the book) was to create a book that acharacter 
could carry - 
or even open - 
during play, without having it look like, well, a game book. 
Hopefully, we could put the rules in something that the most foppish Toreador or the most staid 
Tremere wouldn’t feel awkward about whipping out in the midst of heavy roleplaying. 
Digression: I consider the illusion of the game world to be one of the most important 
aspects of gameplay. I’m a big fan of deep immersion; every time a test goes off or dice hit the 
table, it’s a forcible reminder that you are Just Playing A Game. I like my illusions, and I like 
them with as little duct tape holding them together as possible. That means if I have to check 
a rule during gameplay, I want to do so in a way that seems like part of the action. Ergo, the book 
that gets pulled out for that check should look like an in-play prop, something my character 
would have naturally. 
That wasn’t the end of it, not by a long shot. The book was too long, which meant that 
even more material had to be cut or squeezed - 
Katie did heroic work shrinking headers, 
smooshing sidebars and annexing borders so that everything that was vital would fit. Suddenly, 
from what had been a jumble, there emerged a book. 
For all of its flaws - 
and I know the book has them, thank you- 
it does what it was intended 
to: It makes looking rules up in gameplay easier; it addresses the concerns of the people who helped 
poke at it. Most of all, it’s useful. 
And that, after all, is what I was after from the very beginning. 


Times prophesied in the Book ofNod. Far more successful than most Gehenna cults, the 
True Hand claimed exclusive dominion over rare powers and mysterious secrets. These 
elders infiltrated and manipulated Camarilla and Sabbat alike, sometimes sirnulta- 
neously. Their crusaders hunted and killed vampires with a skill worthy of the Assamites. 
However, even the most fervent fanaticism is no equal to the destruction 
unleashed in the Final Nights. The deaths of powerful vampires and the chaos of war 
has split the True Hand from its former contacts and allies, forcing its former members 
to hide or be destroyed. Crushed under the weight of centuries and the inevitability 
of change, the True Hand is no more, its vampires little better than the squabbling 
Cainites against whom they so recently fought and maneuvered. 
Once, the True Hand sought to serve the will of the Antediluvians. Its holdings 
in the Shadowlands - 
the realm of the dead - 
lay beyond the reach of its enemies, 
and its careful manipulations and unique abilities allowed it to control entire broods 
of vampires with ease. The hierarchy of the True Hand is now disrupted, and its 
resources are scattered and broken. Only by integrating themselves into Kindred 
society can the True Hand’s former members survive. 
(Note: The True Black Hand and its adherents are not necessarily suitable for 
all styles of play. Storytellers should choose whether or not they wish to acknowl- 
edge the existence of the Black Hand in their individual chronicles. Certainly, the 
bloodlines and Disciplines presented here diverge considerably from those of 
“mainstream” vampires, and can be unbalancing. 
Also note that the Nagaraja as presented here differ slightly from their tabletop 
incarnation in Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand. This is an intentional result of 
updating them to conform to the standards of the revised Vampire.) 
N ~q A RAJ A 
Of course mankind continues on after death, my childe. Our existence should be 
enough to prove that. But what of the others who do not share in our particular cursed 
blessing of immortality? Why, they continue on as well, 1 assure you. That man there, 


by the corner, is going to die in the next few nights, as a matter offact. I am quite sure 
that we will see him again shortly thereafter. How can I tell? Suffice it to say, I can see 
such things. And yes, I can teach you as well, though your tutelage will begin a bit 
differently than mine. We don’t have quite so demanding a schedule ahead of us as I did 
when 1 was inducted into this world. 
But come. We will return to this subject in time. You and I mwt dine tonight, and 
I hawe prepared a most succulent repast. Do you remember the woman I pointed out to 
you a week ago? The woman who had been hawing those terrible headaches.. .? 
The forbidden experiments of the Tremere were not the only magical works 
to produce results. In the early days of the True Hand, a subsect of mages obsessed 
with the secrets of death and the afterlife bent their collective will toward 
understanding vampirism. At last, convinced that their research granted them the 
power to manipulate the vampiric curse to their own ends, they conducted a great 
ceremony to strike the life from their bodies and become undead forever. 
The Nagaraja still exist, and they continue to study and develop the secrets 
of death and what lies beyond. Their command of necromantic arts is rivaled only 
by that of the Giovanni, and the Flesh Eaters have some secrets that not even the 
upstart Necromancers have discovered. Without the True Hand, the Nagaraja is 
a directionless and dying bloodline; whether it survives the coming reckoning or 
falls to the paranoid waltz of the Jyhad remains to be seen. 
Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate, Necromancy 
Advantage: Instead of practicing the forms of Necromancy pioneered by the 
Giovanni, the Nagaraja use Vitreous Necromancy (sometimes called “Nihilistics”) 
- 
a special path concerned with the energies of death and decay. Should your 
game include the additionalNecromancy powers fromvampire, the Nagaraja use 
Ash Necromancy and are capable of learning Vitreous Necromancy after attain- 
ing expertise to an Intermediate level. Otherwise, use Vitreous Necromancy as 
their primary Necromancy path, giving them access to unusual abilities unknown 
to other clans and bloodlines. Because of their sensitivity to the energies of the 
dead, Nagaraja can automatically sense the presence of any wraiths in their 
vicinity (about lofeet), although they cannot necessarily see or identify particular 
wraiths (at least, not without AshNecromancyor the Merits: Ghostsight or Speaker 
with the Dead). 
Disadvantage: In addition to drinking blood, the Nagaraja must consume 
human flesh. A Nagaraja must devour two health levels’ worth of flesh each day, 
preferably fresh. A normal human corpse is considered to have three servings of 
“the other white meat.” Vampiric flesh will not do, as it rots and decays once it is 
devoured. ANagaraja who fails to “get his pound of flesW’gains theNegative Trait: 
Sickly for eachnight offasting; theseTraits disappear iftheNagarajalater consumes 
additional flesh (one serving for each Trait). 
Nagaraja have no special capacity for eating food other than raw flesh, unless 
they take the Merit: Eat Food. 
I N C L U D I N C ~ T H E  
NAC~ARAJAIN 
YOUR CHRONICLE 
As a bloodline of perhaps adozen members from avampiric society now nearly 
destroyed, the Nagaraja would seem to have limited potential for use as characters. 
With the extent of the True Hand’s influence in vampiric society, though, such is 
hardly the case. Agents of the True Hand from almost all clans infiltrate various 


levels ofthe Camarilla and Sabbat, and even in the wake of recent upheavals, they 
continue to advance their own schemes while hiding within the other sects. 
Formidable necromantic prowess combines with the wisdomofgreat age tomake 
the Nagaraja cunning and dangerous adversaries. Obviously, other necromancers are 
the most likely to know of the Nagaraja; the Giovanni family in particular considers 
the Nagaraja a nuisance, but still casts a jealous eye toward the bloodline’s secrets. For 
their part, the Nagaraja take an interest in the larger movements of Kindred society. 
Any seemingly insignificant political or social change within either Camarilla or 
Sabbat could conceal the maneuvers of the ancients; such chess matches draw the 
attention of the True Hand and its members. Without the safety of any secure haven 
or widespread allies, the Nagaraja must travel where their studies and needs take them 
- 
and so one or even two may appear just about anywhere, if only briefly. 
Due to their scarcity, Nagaraja shouldn’t arrive in a chronicle in droves. Rather, 
they are harbingers of terrible portents, foreshadowing the schemes of ancient 
vampires playing in the Jyhad. Too much an unknown quantity to be actively 
persecuted, the Nagaraja are largely an enigma to the more common clans. 
Possible ideas for adding Nagaraja to your chronicle include: 
Nagaraja follow up on hidden or lost necromantic secrets with an almost 
religious fanaticism. A character unearthing an unusual bit of occult lore may 
attract the attention of a Nagaraja. 
The movements of the ancients always draw the attention of the Tal’mahe’Ra. 
A Nagaraja agent may use his necromantic abilities to investigate unusual 
conspiracies or hidden influence in a city. 
Since veryfew Nagaraja exist-and 
as they are not exactly protected by the 
sheltering arms of the Camarilla or Sabbat - 
it makes sense for them to seek out 
places to hide, or allies on whom they can depend. A single Nosferatu contact or 
a Brujah bodyguard can go a long way toward making unlife safer and more 
productive, and the Nagaraja aren’t above making such contacts surreptitiously. 
With their small bloodline size, Embracing potential recruits seems like a valid 
strategy for Nagaraja. Of course, educating a brand-new vampire and teaching her to 
avoid notice, unearth the secrets of unlife and defend against potential threats is a risky 
undertaking, so the Nagaraja seek out only the most talented and intelligent recruits. 
A mentor-student team might seek shelter with a small group of neonates or ancillae, 
so that the fledgling Flesh Eater can adjust to her new condition in relative security. 
The forbidding workings of Vitreous Necromancy can be used to sense and 
manipulate the dark energies ofentropy, decay and death. Formerly called “Nihilistics,” 
this type of Necromancy is practiced almost exclusively by the now-vanished 
Nagaraja bloodline. Other necromancers would give much to unearth this Discipline’s 
secrets, for it is a powerful adjunct to the ability to control the Restless. Its true 
capabilities, however, lie buried with its makers in the realm of the True Black Hand. 
V I  
T R E o u s NE c R o M A N  CY 
B A S I C  
Eyes of the Dead 
Tapping into the flow of death energy, you can see through the eyes of any 
wraiths who happen to be around you. By examining auras with the ghostly sight 
of the dead, you can determine relative states of health, decay and injury. 


System: You must expend a Mental Trait to use this power. Once activated, you are 
capable of using a wraith’s Deathsight for the remainder of the scene, or until you pull your 
perceptions back into your ownbcdy (your normalsight is coopted by this power). You see from 
the wraith’s perspective, allowing you to view the decaying architecture of the Underworld. By 
looking at a person or object, you can determine if the subject is damaged or diseased. You can 
also see the ebb and flow of baleful magic (curses and binding enchantments). 
Hour of Death 
Like Eyes of the Dead, this power lets you see with the perceptions of a wraith. You 
can pick out auras using your own vision, and see the telltale marks of death on all things. 
System: Activating this power calls for the expenditure of a Mental Trait. 
Like Eyes ofthe Dead, you can determine injury and disease with this power, simply 
with your normal sight (instead of borrowing a wraith‘s vision). You may be able 
to tell if a subject is about to die - 
if a character is dying, you may ask a Narrator 
how long the subject has to live (as determined by the target’s remaining Physical 
Traits). You can also distinguish between different forms of entropy, so you can tell 
the relative power of various curses and harmful spells. 
I N T E R M E D I A T E  
Soul Judgment 
Tapping into the Beast that resides even in ghosts, you can sense a wraith‘s 
dark passions, the emotions that give it strength but also feed its hatred of the 
living. You can determine whether a wraith is in the thrall of its Beast (called the 
“Shadow”), allowing you to plan your dealings accordingly. Since many wraiths are 
unaware of what their Beasts do while in control, this power allows you to bargain 
with them in ways that may not be immediately apparent. 
System: You must expend a Willpower Trait and make a Mental Challenge 
with the wraith in question in order to determine whether its higher self, or 
“Psyche,” has been overridden by its Shadow. This power also allows you to 
determine whether the wraith is routinely dominated by its Shadow; such wraiths 
are called Spectres and are exceedingly dangerous. 
Breath of Thanatos 
Drawing entropic energy out of your own dead body, you can breathe a fine, 
invisible mist of death over an area. This energy settles like a seething cloud that 
attracts the attention of malefic spirits. 
System: You must expend a Blood Trait and make a Simple Test (win or tie) to 
exhale the BreathofThunutos. Ifsuccessful, you can cause the ghostly cloud to settle over 
an area around you; Spectres will come to this area, very likely to harass anyone within. 
Alternately, you may breathe the mist at an individual (requiring a Mental Challenge 
to direct the gases successfully). In this case, the victim suffers one health level of 
aggravateddamage and is afflicted with theNegative SocialTraits: Repugnant x2 for the 
remainder of the evening; the energies give the victim an eerie, pallid aura. Also, such 
a victim registers as tainted by Oblivion and Wyrm-energies. Multiple uses of this 
Discipline in the same evening are not cumulative on any one victim. 
ADVANCED 
Soul Feasting 
This puissant power allows you to literally drain the energy of ghosts and the dead, 
absorbing it foryourownpurposes. Youcan thenuse thisenergy tofuel your undeadpowers. 


System: You must expend a Willpower Trait to activate this power for the 
duration of a conflict. You can attack wraiths with your bite, just as if feeding 
normally. If you manage to bite successfully (with a Physical Challenge), your fangs 
penetrate into the Underworld and allow you to devour the wraith’s energy - 
each 
Corpus level (health level) stolen in this fashion gives you one Trait of Entropy. (If 
you “drink the wraith dry” in this fashion, the unlucky spirit falls into a Destruction 
Harrowing.) Alternately, you may simply draw entropy from your surroundings, if you 
are in a cemetery, Haunt or other place of the dead; in this case, you gain one Entropy 
Trait for each Mental Trait that you expend, up to three Traits total from any given 
area. These Entropy Traits may then be used to power Disciplines in the place of 
Blood Traits, although they cannot be used for any other functions common to Blood 
Traits (such as healing, reviving someone from torpor or improving Physical Traits). 
Entropy Traits gained with this power last throughout the evening, until spent. 
TRUE 
BRUJAH 
Ifinditmostineriguing, really, thatmoreofthe Rubbledon’t knowaboutus. Troile was 
so proud of his victory over our father, and the younger ones haw such a time controlling 
themelves that it would seem obvious that those of Troile’s line would be different. It seem 
that the self-proclaimed scholars should be able to make the connection easily enough and 
hypothesiTe our existence, at least. But the young one I.. . questioned.. . had never heard of 
mybrothersandI. Hekeptinsisting(evenwhenIap~liedwhite-hotbra~ 
tohim) thathe was 
a “true Brujuh. ” He honestly did not see the difference between himselfand I. But he will learn 
soon enough, I suppose. He waits now in the hopes that the coming of day will let him escape 
It’s of no consequence, ultimately. I have an eternity of night to convince 
him otherwise. Then I can get buck to my real studies. 
According to the legends of the Kindred, the Brujah clan hails from the 
lineage of Troile, an upstart who diablerized the original Brujah Antediluvian. 
Though Troile stole the ancient’s power, he failed to usurp the entirety of the 
bloodline, and to this day several very old and very cunning descendants of the 
original Antediluvian are rumored to exist. Following the tradition of scholarship 
handed down through their bloodline, the survivors’ logical minds and keen 
intellects focused on the acquisition of knowledge and the finer points of philoso- 
phy; their calm, rational natures led to a reputation as legendary thinkers and 
keepers of wisdom. In addition to this wisdom, the True Brujah honed a keen sense 
of perception, leading them to develop unparalleled political machinations and an 
uncannv sense of history. Originally founding members of the True Black Hand, 
the True Bruj ah - 
if, indeed, any remain - 
are said to control the perceptions of 
time and even, among the eldest, the currents of the ages. 
A keen grasp of philosophy makes for a well-honed mind, but not necessarily an 
understanding or moral one. Indeed, the True Brujah as a whole left behind human 
morality centuries before. In their quest for knowledge and their search for perfection 
of the mind, they delved into much forbidden lore. Bent to the purity of developing 
Platonic ideals, they did not recognize the dangers of consorting with infernalists, and 
they welcomed rites and sacraments most foul. With the patience of timesight and a 
drive unfettered by emotions or morality, the True Brujah brought about their own 
doom at Carthage and other places. Even when forming the True Black Hand, they 
refused to rectify their errors, and their demonic taint and ties continued to infect 
them - 
and still do in modern nights. 


Having fled the destruction of their sect, what True Brujah remain would 
presumably be solitary and independent figures, weighted by powerful blood and 
centuries of age. Beyond vengeance, petty politics or material concerns, these 
introspective Cainites have only their shared thirst for knowledge left. If any 
survive, they are surely ensconced in the furthest comers of the world, studying 
esoteric works beyond the ken of mankind or younger vampires. 
Clan Disciplines: Potence, Presence, Temporis 
Advantage: True Brujah are exceedingly controlled and unemotional. De- 
void of passion, they find it easy to resist the ravages of frenzy, as they are not easily 
moved to displays of rage or terror. A True Brujah always gains one free test to 
attempt to avoid frenzy (generally at the standard Trait difficulty), even without 
expending a Willpower Trait. True Brujah also gain a single retest against powers 
or Disciplines that would incite frenzy in lesser vampires. 
Disadvantage: Because of their detachment and coldness, True Brujah have 
difficulty holding to moral or philosophical concerns. To them, such abstractions 
are intellectual exercises, nothing more. True Brujah are likely to gain Beast or Path 
Traits as a result of their inability to hold to a system of beliefs. Any time that a True 
Brujah would be called upon to test for a new Beast or Path Trait, the player must 
make two tests and take the worst result. If astoryteller decides to assign anew Beast 
or Path Trait without a test, the player should make one Simple Test; failure 
indicates that the character gains two Beast or Path Traits instead of just one. 
I N C L U D I N ~ T H E  
TRUE 
BRUJAH 
I N  YOUR CHRONICLE 
Time and contemplation weigh heavily on the True Brujah. Determined to 
reclaim their stolen destiny from the brood of Troile, they weave convoluted and 
long-running plots to take revenge for their losses. Though slow to anger, their fury 
is as boundless as any vampire’s when they are roused. 
The appearance of a True Brujah is not something publicly bandied about. 
Indeed, most Kindred are completely unaware of the existence of the bloodline proper. 
Generally, aTrue Brujahmasqueradesas aVentrueor Lasombrawhenassociating with 
Camarilla or Sabbat groups, relying on age and experience to dissuade investigation 
into the truth. After all, with their history at Carthage and their supposed betrayal by 
Troile, they are quite experienced in deception and hidden warfare. 
For the most part, True Brujah are historical scholars, antiquated relics of a 
bygone age who mull over much philosophy but rarely act. The days of the bloodline’s 
prominence - 
if, indeed, they ever truly were the basis of the Brujah clan - 
are long 
gone, and they now concern themselves with memories of the past. As a result, True 
Brujah often cloister themselves from all but a few Kindred, seeking memories of their 
former glory or the sleep of ages. Only a rare few actively involve themselves in the 
present, and even they are hard pressed to keep up with the constant changes of the 
frightening modem age. Whether or not the coming Final Nights will rouse the True 
Brujah to action - 
or lead to their ultimate destruction - 
remains to be seen. 
Possible ideas for adding True Brujah to a chronicle include: 
With their time senses, True Brujah often have a good idea of important 
places in the unfolding of history. The ebb and tide of unusual events can draw a 
True Brujah to investigate. 
With their scholastic knowledge and long history, True Brujahare always in search 
of new discoveries. When a piece of arcane lore is unearthed in a particular chronicle, a 


to the flow of time; you can keeptime with perfect 
precision. Unnatural eddies in the flow of time are also sensed. Magical alterations of 
time, or other uses of Temporis, are therefore quite apparent. 


System: No challenge or expenditure is necessary to use this Discipline; once 
a practitioner becomes familiar with the ebb and flow of time, its rhythms are 
always apparent. 
Ramble On 
By affecting a subject’s sense of the passage of time, you can force the 
individual to continue performing a particular action. The victim is entranced, 
carrying on his action long after he intended to stop. An individual taking a walk, 
for instance, continues walking even after he has overshot his destination; a victim 
trying to run away becomes so intent upon fleeing that he keeps trying to run even 
after he has been captured. 
System: You must make a Social Challenge against the target to use this 
power. Once activated, the subject automatically attempts to repeat the same 
action performed in the current turn in the next turn. Thus, in the next turn, the 
victim repeats what he was doing previously, as long as the action is repeatable. A 
character who picks up a book, for instance, cannot be made to try to pick up the 
same book once he’s already holding it; in the presence of several books, though, 
he could be made to pick up an additional book. 
I N T F R M E D I A T F  
Zombie’s Curse 
Warping a target’s perception of time, you can make the victim take longer 
to do anything. The subject slows down, moving as if smothered in molasses, and 
he has difficulty reacting to things happening at “normal speed.” 
System: You must engage in a Social Challenge with your victim in order to 
affect her perception of time. If successful, the subject is slowed for the next 15 
seconds (four turns). A slowed victim may still use weapons and powers, but her 
actions always come after everyone else’s, and she may have difficulty in combat. The 
slowed target suffers from the Negative Traits: Clumsy x2 due to dulled reactions. 
Cowalker 
Blinking outside of time, you can move briefly between ticks of the clock. A 
concerted force ofwill allows you to step beyond the bounds of normal time, so that 
you are able to act while the world is frozen around you. 
System: Expend a Willpower Trait to step betweenseconds, and you are able to take 
one action (and only one, without any enhancements from Ceknty or other powers) 
between turns. You cannot affect anything else that is frozen in time - 
thus, you could 
battle another individual who is also using this power, but you cannot open a door, punch 
someone or turn on a light. In effect, you are free to move for one turn - 
generally, to 
a distance of three steps. However, if you can get out of reach of your opponent or find 
a suitable hiding place, you may be able to use this power for a Fair Escape. You can also 
attack from surprise by using this power in combat, at least the first time you “blink.” 
ADVANCED 
Frozen Object 
You can literally warp the fabric of time around an object, causing it to exist 
in a pocket outside the flow of the seconds. Such an object retains any energy or 
properties that it had when frozen, but it cannot be affected by interactions from 
:he normal time stream. As a result, you can throw a knife and then leave it in mid- 
iir, or halt time for a grenade thrown at you long enough to escape. 


System: An object may be frozen for up to 15 seconds (four turns) of normal 
time. You must decide how long to freeze the object when halting it. Although you 
do not need to touch the item, you must be able to see it, and it cannot be in the 
possession of another individual. Therefore, you can freeze a knife, a bomb or a 
falling object, but unless you have some means of seeing a bullet (such as by 
stepping outside time with the Cowalker power), you cannot affect it. Frozen 
objects retain their energy but cannot interact with the physical world; thus, a 
thrown knife resumes flying once this power elapses, but it cannot be plucked from 
the air while frozen. Activating this Discipline requires the expenditure of one 
Physical Trait. 
MASTER 
Control Aging 
You can alter the effects of time upon a particular subject. With a touch, you can 
rapidly speed up, slow down or even reverse the accumulation of time in your target. 
System: You must grasp your target physically in order to control time’s effects 
upon it; this may require al’hysical Challenge in the case of unwilling subjects. The 
object can be no larger than roughly man-sized - 
generally, 500 pounds or so is 
the upper limit. You must then expend one Physical Trait for each decade that you 
wish to add to or subtract from the victim’s age. Note that vampires altered 
chronologically with this power do not undergo physical changes (they are 
immune to the ravages of time), but may suffer supernatural difficulties (such as 
inability to gain sustenance from the blood of animals or even humans). Once this 
power is used on a given individual, it may not be used again on the same subject 
in the same game session. 
Domain of Evernight 
By dilating the perceived flow of time around yourself, you can make it appear 
that time has sped up incredibly. Everyone in the area - 
including you - 
experiences a highly altered flow of time. This power can be used to great effect 
when defending a haven, by causing night to come with rapidity or by exposing 
vampiric foes to daylight. 
System: This power affects only a single room at a time. You must win a Static 
Mental Challenge (difficulty seven Traits) to cause one hour of time to pass in the 
space of a single turn (about five seconds of real time or so, when not in combat). 
You must have a Narrator present in order to use this power; all events in the given 
room are taken “out of location” as the area steps outside of the normal time stream. 
Those who step into the area are immediately included in the perception- 
distorting effects. If a room is affected with this power, those inside cannot return 
to the normal flow of the game until outside time “catches up” with their perceived 
time frame. 
For example, if Laocrines the True Brujah activates this power in a side room 
at seven o’clock, he can make a Mental Challenge to cause everyone in the area 
to experiencedilated time for an hour (althoughsubjectively the inhabitants ofthe 
room experience only a single turn). No one who enters the room or is in the area 
of effect can leave the room until eight o’clock outside. 
Due to the potential disruptiveness of this power (possibly causing several 
players to wait for an hour or more before returning to play), Storytellers should 
exercise extreme caution in allowing its use in their games. 
E N OC  H IAN MYSTICISM 
e 


PUMONCA EOR 
WYLD W € S T  
by Jess Heinig 
6 
The Nuwisha and the Cmax aren’t the only newcomers to Mind’s Eye 
st. Enter the Bastet. Lithe, 
Theatre with the advent of Law 
The Pure Lands have b 
these hardy loners hav 
the arrival of the Wyr 
warriors, the Pum 
Storm Umbra and 
ters and relentless 
line cousins of the 
It isnotuntil the 1880s 
united face to protect their lands 
BASTFT BASICS 
Bastet cannot step sideways naturally. Only through the use of a 
special Intermediate Gift (Walking Between Worlds) -or 
if they are within 
their Den-Realm - 
can they enter the Umbra as do Garou. 
r 


Bastet never have the Backgrounds: Past Life or Totem. 
A Bastet’s initial Rage and Willpower Traits areiboth based upon her tribe; 
- a  representation of their 
re and Demeanor Archetypes). 
rious effects of that metal listed 
y. Whenever a Bastet 
est. Failure (a loss, but 
ly, changing one form 
or until the scene ends). 
m to another - 
a 
lent ofGlabro) and 
their own inter-tribal 
lex messages require Ho 
derived from their whiskers, 
for the purposes of negating pe 
Bastet heal and regenerate just like Garou. 
Bastet have some special Gifts and Backgroun 
Bastet have homid, metis and feline breeds, corres 
homid, metis and lupus breeds of the Garou. These breeds 
same fashion as for Garou, except that all Bastet start with 
Homid: Cat Claws, Sweet Hunter’s Smile 
Metis: Create Element, Sense Pnml Nature 
Feline: Mark as Mine, Kitten’s Cry 
PYRIO 
Pyrio must be different than his Nature or Demeanor (some Bastet are straightforward 
and honest about the face they show the world), but these different levels of identity 


nt facets of their existence. The 
hange roughly determines her 
allow players to regain Willpower Traits for 
h exceptional roleplaying. 
N K A N D  REN 
e - 
and so, too, are tales 
Just like Garou, Bastet measure Re 
status. However, because Bastet are s 
Garou, but they may 
ious nature of Bastet 
correspond roughly to the Garou Renown of 
The same Trait descriptions can generally 
- 
BASTETRA 
Rank 
Title 
1 
Tekhmet 
2 
Aka 
3 
Tilau 
4 
Ilani 
20 
5 
Bon Bhat 
25 


BASTET BACKGROUNDS 
eritage, Bastet have access to some Backgrounds that are 
arou. In addition to many of the Backgrounds described in 
a Bastet can choose from Den-Realm, 
Jamuk and Trinket. 
sedisasters and attacks, and you can 
r instantly at a cost of one Gnosis (but 
with this Background 
totem: It works for th 
Buying a Jamuk is just like pur 
must pay all of the associated poin 
Bastet tend to pick up curious 


etish Background, but the 
outside the realm of spirits 
shoots fire, summons rats. 
S O R C ~ R Y  
A N D  
dy said that learning the hidden mysteries was easy.. .. 
forms. Doing so costs 
of the scene, or until 
normally, inflicting a 
look quite unusual in 
Negative Physical Trait: 
Sokto forms, and thus cause you to suffer the 
Jam Gun: This functions j 
of the Wyld West. 
Sweet Hunter’s Smile: Yo 
your cat-like charms. By expendin 
nderstandable form 
f your forms allows you to alter your 
mid form to look like any sort of 


change, and beings with supernatural senses may attempt to detect your change 
(though they cannot see your true form) by makingaMenta1 Challenge against you. 
ows you to destroy food, drink and 
letely toxic and spoiled. 
Advanced 
arable land. You render any co 
arability of a square mi 
food is rendered rotten 
METIS C ~ I E T S  
Blinding Moonbea 
no exception. You can caus 
must win or tie a Simple Test 
of moonlight allowing you to s 
eyes generate beams 
tsforone turn. With 
successful challen 
ait. You gain total perception of everything within 10 
you make a Mental Challenge to notice hidden or 
smites matter and wounds foes. With 
growl, you can make a test of your 
of the moon at night (only), you can 


Gnosis Trait to create the gateway, and make a Static Mental Challenge with a 
difficulty dependent upon your familiarity with the destination - 
five Traits for 
your own home, 20 or more for an unknown place or otherwsrldly Realm. You may 
Redeem the Wa 
you lend it some of y 
strike across the 
Advanced 
Moon Sense: You can extend 
extrasensory powers of Clairvoyance 
tant places as with the 
under the light of the 
arby and familiar locale, 
1 minute ofviewing costs 
can react if you are discovered 
effects end instantly. 
you whip up a terrible storm. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and three Social 
Traits. Within a few seconds (a turn at most), a terrifyingly potent storm rises, 
whipping about the area and causing all manner of difficulty. Storytellers may 
'ons?-q a result of the storm - 
ranged combat 
e n k d  powers are largely overwhelmed. This 
lenge (about five minutes or less). 
use your opponents 
. You must engage in 
y. If you succeed, your 
you then take the 
opportunity to counterstrike), or your target feels disposed to assist you (with 


healing Gifts, the assistance of Influence, or just some kind words). This Gift does 
not endear you to those who take joy in harming the weak- 
Wyrm-creatures and 
usk allows you to mark your 
ognizes the mark as the sign 
Mark as Mine: Treating an o 
territory and objects. Any shapeshift 
order to use this Gift on any 
the same Gift a second time 
to see and remove the Gift w 
This Gift does work on creature 
Perfect Cover: Maki 
ove the mark by using 
This Gift can be used only 
Ily concealed - 
in shadows, 
Intermediate 
Whisker Sight: As per the Basic Metis Gift of the same name. 
Advanced 
Judgment of Pestilence: Calling upon the boons of Mother Cat and the 
natural winds, you can pull the ravages of disease to or away from a particular 
location. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and make a Simple Test to absorb a 
disease from a particular location. If you succeed (win or tie on the test), you can 
then carry the disease, unharmed, to another location, there to release it. If you fail, 
or if you carry the disease for more than a single night or day (at the next sunrise 
or sunset), you are overwhelmed by the toxins and die immediately. 


~ E N E R A L  
~ I E T S  
(Note: These Gifts are all Basic Level. A player may choose one of these Gifts 
at character creation.) 
Banish Sickness: By spending a Trait of the Medicine Ability and winning 
a Simple Test, a Bastet can purge a subject’s body of illness, disease or venom. 
Particularly virulent diseases require an expenditure of from one to three Gnosis 
Traits depending on severity. Some illnesses (such as cancer or leprosy) may even 
be incurable. 
Catfeet: As the Basic Lupus Gift in Laws of the Wild, page 97. 
Command Attention: By entering a room and making a number of Simple 
TestswithaNarratorequal to thenumberofSocialTraitshehas, aBastetmaydraw 
on his innate sensuality and feline presence to get the attention of everyone inside. 
Activating the Gift requires at least one victory (not a tie) on the Simple Tests, 
and ifsuccessful, the Bastet draws the immediate attentionofeveryone in the room 
as he enters. He also gains a Bonus Social Trait (dependent on what effect the 
Bastet was hoping for when he entered the room) for every Simple Test he wins, 
for use in the next Social Challenge. This Bonus applies only once upon entering 
the room, and each Bonus Trait won must be the same. 
Dowsing: By pawing andsniffing around (i.e., makingaMentalChallenge), 
a Bastet can locate nearby water sources and determine whether or not said water 
is safe to drink. The difficulty of this challenge is based on how far away the source 
is (it must be within 100 feet) and how much water is present. 
Lick Wounds: As the Basic Theurge Gift: Mother’s Touch. However, a 
Bastet can use this Gift to heal herself, and she can use the Gift as many times as 
she wants (at the cost of one Gnosis Trait per “lick”). 
Open Seal: As the Basic Ragabash Gift. 
ic Ahroun Gift. 


cord muscles and predictably catlike 
features. In Sokto form (equivalent to 
Glabro), the Pumoncagains the Traits: 
Ferocious, Quick and Tough, but suffers 
theNegative SocialTrait: Bestial. InCrinos 
form, the Pumonca gains the Traits: Brawny, Ferocious x2, Nimble, Quick x2, Robust, 
Relentless and Tough x2, but suffers the Negative Social Traits: Bestial x2 and Tactless. 
In Chatro (great cat) form, the Pumonca gains Ferocious x2, Quick x2 and Relentless x2, 
but takes the Negative Traits: Bestial x2 and Shortsighted. In Feline (cougar) form, the 
Pumonca gains Quick x2 and Tireless x2, but suffers from Bestial. 
PUMONCA 
YAVA 
A Pumonca is one with her land; if she leaves it for more than a full lunar 
The essence of poisoned land (toxic waste, radiation, sewage) is deadly to 
a puma. Immerse him in its toxins, and he will perish quickly. 
All beasts fear the puma. No horse will bear him, no dog will follow him. The 
great cats are his kin and they befriend him, but no other animal can approach 


Mockingbird’s Mirror: The simple trick of mimicry allows the Pumonca to 
throw his voice anywhere, and to even imitate various sounds: people, machines, 
loudy day; 15 Traits for 
a small pocket of clouds 
or clay, and the effects are 
entire session. 
nts, oozes and vines, by crooning to the 
pend a Rage Trait and a Gnosis Trait 
ugged x2, Tireless xi! and Tough x2, a normal 
no penalties from wounds), and one level of 
ith the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait and a 
culty of the Gauntlet), you can summon up an 
Element-Folk 
successful Social Cha 
elemental spirit for a 
Elemental Gift, page 
The elemental remains for one scene, one hour or 
the earth to tremble and crack. You must expend a Rage Trait and make a Social 
Challenge with a difficulty equal to twice the area’s Gauntlet. If you succeed, a 
natural disaster befalls everyone within 100 feet - 
swamps beget quicksand, 
mountains suffer rock slides, snowcaps suffer avalanches, deserts and plains crack 
open and swallow offenders. Everyone in the area takes one health level of damage 
automatically (so this Gift probably injures just about everyone in play). 
Thunderbolt: From a pact with Thunderbird, you can call a stroke of the 
storm out of the sky! Any cloud, however small, can serve as asource for this power. 
Spend a Rage Trait and make a Physical Challenge to hit the target; success causes 


the victim to be struck by lightning, scoring one level of aggravated damage for 
every two Traits of permanent Gnosis that you possess (round down). 
Advanced 
Earthspeaking: Whispering to the rocks in their own tongue, you can 
discern what has passed on the earth before. The spirits respond to a single paean. 
You must expend a Mental Trait to see into the past; you gain a vision or impression 
of events that happened there before, much like the vampiric power of Spirit’s 
Touch or mortal Psychometry. However, your vision is quite vivid and includes 
many components ofsight and sound, not just emotional sensation. Ask aNarrator 
for details; cats who use this Gift too often may find themselves subject to 
unwanted emotional problems or Derangements from the recurring intensity of 
past events. 
Thunderbird’s Cry: As per the Metis Bastet Gift: Wrath of Nab. 


ts and mortal organizations. 
[ay l! 
sies, Laws of the NI 
Hunter's Tools and Mind's Eye Theatre 
All rights reserved. 


The rituals of “Master-Level” Thaumaturgy 
present some of the most arcane and confidential 
secrets of the Tremere, as opposed to a next step 
higher along any particular Thaumaturgy path. These 
are taught to only the most trusted of the clan, and those who 
possess these secrets are watched to ensure that said secrets do not find their way to outsiders. 
For a player to purchase these rituals, the character must be of at least seventh 
generation and of exceptional standing with House and Clan Tremere. The cost is the same 
as for any Master-Level Discipline, however this level of Thaumaturgy does not impart any 
additional powers; it simply allows the character to learn these closely guarded rituals. 
We recommend that Storytellers require characters to pursue research into these rituals 
in-game (through the use of Influences and Abilities) to represent the rarity of this class of 
blood magic. Each ritual requires a rare component that should be gained through 
roleplaying; it isdoubtful that your local Chantrywould have, say, aLupine skin lying around. 
- 
R A I S B T H E  DEAD 
Johnny Dash had just sunk his fangs into the prostitute’s neck whena hand came down 
on his shoulder from behind. “Always when I’mfeeding,” he thought. He tookaquickgulp 
then pulled his head back, still keeping a grip on the whore’s hair. “This better be good.” 
“Lord Asteron requests your presence, ” the figure behind him stated. “Come with me. ” 
Johnny was about to slam-dunk the weirdo into anearby dumpster, but the name it invoked 
gave him pause. Asteron was one of the old Warlocks his sire was always muttering about. The 
figure steppd forward, andJohnny saw a symbol carved or tattooed on its forehead - 
that and 
the fact rhat most of the “man’s” h r  was either white or gone, and that its eyes had sunk deeply 
beneath its dohow brow. “Hurry. After this task, I am to be released from this bondage.” 
Johnny nodded and let the whore fall to her knees on the alley floor. He didn’t like 
the Tremere, but he understood one thing.. . freedom. If his going with this walking corpse 
meant its release , he was all fbr it. 
This ritual allows the thaumaturge to resurrect a dead body. The corpse is not 
truly the same person brought back from the dead; the body merely acts as the host 
for a spirit that the thaumaturge coerces into inhabiting the corpse. 
This existence is torturous for the spirit in question, and most spirits seek 
release from the bondage. Unfortunately, there is no way for the spirit to become 
free unless the thaumaturge lifts the enchantment, or the body decomposes. The 
MASTER- 
LEVEL” 
THAUMATUEtjY RITUALS 
4 4  


Warlock most likely uses this fact as a bargaining tool to get the spirit to do his 
bidding. However, the spirit retains its free will and it can act as it wishes. 
Requirements 
The thaumaturge must have a cadaver with flesh still on the bones - 
the fresher 
the corpse, the longer the ritual holds the spirit. If the caster wishes the corpse to interact 
with the outside world, it is recommended that the body be less than a week old. 
He must brand a symbol that translates as “debtor” on the corpse’s forehead, 
and must pour the wax from a black candle over the heart and throat of the subject. 
The wax is the symbol that initially binds the spirit into the corpse. The room in 
which this ritual is performed must be completely devoid of light with the exception 
of the black candle used. The entirety of the ritual must also be conducted in a salt 
circle with a diameter equal to the length of the body, from head to toe. 
System 
The casting character should possess either Spirit Eyes (Basic Spirit 
Thaumaturgy) or Spirit Slave (Intermediate Spirit Thaumaturgy) before purchas- 
ing this ritual, as either allows the character to interact with the spirits necessary. 
The character must defeat the spirit in a Static Mental Challenge versus 14 
Traits to successfully coerce the spirit to enter the corpse. Once the spirit is bound 
into the cadaver, the thaumaturge has no firm control over the actions of the 
corpse, other than what is gained through roleplaying. 
The corpse’s initial Physical/Mental/Social Traits should be determined by the 
Storyteller after the ritual is completed. The corpse possesses the same number of health 
levels as a regular character. These levels can be lost to damage other than decomposi- 
tion, and cannot be healed back. However, the corpse is not subject to wound penalties. 
At the beginning of each game session, the thaumaturge player must engage 
in a Static Physical Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player loses, the corpse loses 
a health level due to decomposition. 
Once the corpse loses all of its health levels, the spirit is released and the ritual 
effect is ended. 
The corpse of a vampire who has suffered Final Death cannot be used in this ritual. 
R I T U A L O P  
HOLDING 
It wasn’t easy, but Yusef had finally located his target. Carvel had been missing 
almost half the night, but Yusef had not yet given up. And now he had found him, not two 
blocks from the target’s despicable “Chantry . ” Yusef had waited longfor the chance to spill 
a Tremere’s blood, and now would be his chance. 
Stealingfrom his hidingplace in the shadows ofa two-story parkingdeck, Yusef crept 
up on Carvel unawares. In a burst of speed that scattered litter and dust in its wake, Yusef 
swept Carvel into a darkened alley across the street from where he stood. The Tremere 
fought bneflr , but Yusef tackled him to the ground, blanketed the area in a heavy cloak 
of silence and pinned the vampire down with a knee on each of Carvel’s slim elbows. 
Mouthing the words, “Welcome the sun,” he pulled two woodenstakesfrom beneath his 
plain wool jacket. As per his orders, he would leave the Tremere paralyzed until the sun 
rose overhead. Yet, the Tremere seemed more surgnsed than afraid or wurried. 
Without even a shrug, Yusef plunged the first of his two stakes into the Tremere’s 
chest. Unsurprisingly, the shaft exploded into hamless chips when it touched Carvel’s 
skin. Yusef had been warned that many Tremere knew a ritual that protected them from 


minglestake, andhe hadcomeprepared. Smiling, he brought thesecondstakedownwhere 
the first had disintegrated. Let the Tremere choke on his proud faith in his rituals. 
Ama~ngly, the second shaft went the way of the first. Yusef sfingers closed on air, 
andhefalteredinshock. Thehesitationwasall Carwelneeded. Inaninstant, Yuseffound 
himselfpinned. Carvel put a handover Yusefs heart andmouthed the words, “Welcome 
the Devil. ” A moment later, Carvel’s eyes danced as his hand erupted in flames. 
This ritual enhances the effects of other rituals. The effects of this enhance- 
ment differ according to the type of ritual with which it is used. 
Requirements 
Performing this ritual adds six hours to the casting time of its partner ritual. 
The material component of the Ritual of Holding is a solidTgold sphere. After 
completion of the initial ritual, the thaumaturge immerses the sphere in two points 
of his blood and spends six hours chanting over the sphere. After that time, the 
sphere absorbs the blood and the second ritual is considered complete. 
Onlv one ritual may be extended by a given casting of the Ritual of Holding 
System 
To represent the concentration required for this ritual, the character must 
engage in a Static Mental Challenge against 14 Traits. If she loses, the Ritual of 
Holding fails and there is no change to the original ritual. 
The benefit of the Ritual of Holding is specific to the ritual with which it is used. 
The player may suggest the effect that she wishes to achieve, but the Storyteller is the 
final authority as to what actually happens. Some suggested effects include: 
Blood Walk: Extends the reach of the ritual to the progeny of the target, or 
to those whose blood the target has tasted. 
Engaging the Vessel of Transference: Exchanges only one Blood Trait for 
every two taken. 
Shaft of Belated Quiescence: Makes it impossible for Cleansing of the Flesh 
to remove the shaft. 
Once the effect of the ritual is decided, the Storyteller should fill out a card 
detailing the results, and give it to the player. 
The player and Storyteller should discuss the effect that Holding has, and 
they should conduct any tests involved in advance of the ritual. Doing so allows 
the character to perform the ritual during downtime rather than miss an entire 
game session. 
UTTER 
DBSTRUCTIONOE 
BONDS 
Here 1 am, locked in the back seat of a car, in the middle of the junkyard outside of 
town, with less than 20 minutes before dawn. I’ve tried all the doors, but they seem to be 
welded shut from the outside. On top of that, I’m too weak to break through any of the 
bullet-proof windows. 1 guess the prince was serious, after all. 
There’s garbage ewerywhere. If 1 could just get out of this metal pnson, 1 could 
burrow under it and sleep inrelatiwe safety. As it stands, I’we got only afew minutes before 
Apollo’s chariot breaks the hwizon and fries me alive. 
But I’mcalm.. . . I’we beenin tighter spots. I clear my mindandstart chanting. The incantation 
is long and complex, which is a pain since I’m getting drowsy and I’m almost swenting blood. But 
the hardest pmtcomes last.. . . I don’t have a knife. For dus to work, I have to cut out my own tongue, 
MAST E E- LEV E L” TH 
A U  M ATU R CjY RI T u A IS 
6 6  
I 
eD 


and that’s no small trick even with a knife. So instead, I blank my mind, grab my tongw 
the tip 
andbiteitoutwithmy teeth. lnearly blackout, butlstillhave thepres~eofmindtosmearwhat’s 
kftinmy hundagainrtthewindow. Withawhoosh! andapop!, thewindowexplodesoutwardand 
I pile out through the gaping, ragged hole. Half-blind with pain and mor, I claw my way to the 
nearest festering pile of refuse and worm my way into it, the rays of dawn pushing me forward. 
This ritual is incredibly powerful, yet few realize the full extent of its potential. 
The ritual, once completed, opens any designated object and prevents the object 
from ever being closed again. 
Requirements 
The caster utters a 10-minute incantation, at the end of which she removes 
System 
Removing the tongue inflicts three aggravated health levels of damage, and 
renders the character unable to speak until his tongue can be grown back. 
Additionally, one Willpower Trait must be spent for the character to steel himself 
for the gruesome task of removing his tongue. 
The ritual can be used to open manacles, chests, safes, boxes, windows, doors 
and eyes. If used to destroy a ward, no other can ever be placed in the same area 
again. This ritual can also be used to open dimensional portals that are tied to 
objects, although Storytellers should be very careful when allowing this applica- 
tion of the ritual; the portal cannot be closed once this ritual is used to open it. 
(Note: Utter Destruction of Bonds cannot be used to break Blood Bonds or 
mental commands issued with the Dominate Discipline.) 
her tongue, crushes it and smears it on the object to be opened. 
RECLAIMED 
TREMERE 
ANTITRIBU 
RITUALS 
After the destruction of the Tremere antitribu, these rituals were discovered 
and brought back to Vienna for study. These are the first of the antitribu rituals to 
be released for use within the Tremere clan as a whole. Any character who wishes 
to learn any of the antitriburituals should be prepared for several months of research 
and roleplaying before being able to learn even one of them. 
CHILL 
O E T H E  WINDSABER 
Valentine had tracked the Tremere d 
over Russia, and now, just over the burder, she 
found him at last. The Tremere Larian had killed Valentine’s uncle - 
bj dl reports, he had 
uctuully skinned the ancient Silver Fang-and 
Valentine declared that she would quench her 
Rage with Larian’s blood. She plodded through the ankk-high snow toward the cabin where 
Larian was reported to be holed up. She fantasizedabout his death screams and wondered what 
she would say if he begged for mercy. The sun had long since gone down, but Valentine wmn’ t 
worried. If she found the cabin empty, she would simply wait ins& until sunrise. 
Whenshe was withinbowshotofthecabin, herearsdetectedsomethingduringaluUin the 
wind. ltsoundedlikeasmpfrmins& thecabin, thoughVakntinecouldn’tbesure. She pused 
a m n t ,  her tail beating a constant rhythm against her legs, and then moved ahead again. 
She had &n 
only a few steps when she saw the snow part in front of her like the trail 
of an outboard mom. The disturbance bored toward her from a cabin window and slammed 
into her midsection like a locomtive. She hit the ground hard and realized that she couldn’t 
feel her hind legs -which 
lay where she once stood. She could not even raise a howl of agony 
or defeat as the night sky slowly grew ominously darker. 


Chill of the Windsaber is perhaps the most controlled of the antitribu ritual,, 
and for good reason. A Tremere that possesses this ritual has the ability to destroy 
an opponent from a distance without leaving a trace of the attacker 
This ritual is very tightly regulated by the Tremere, to the extent that most of the 
clanstilldonot know that itexists. ForaTremere to be taught this ritual, hemust spend 
at least three months in Vienna where his loyalty to house and clan is tested. If he is 
deemed worthy, the ritual is taught to him. The penalty for teaching this ritual to 
anyone who has not undergone this trial is Final Death for both teacher and student. 
Requirement 
Before the ritual can begin, the vampire must possess something that belongs 
to the intended victim, such as a piece of clothing, a lock of hair or a Blood Trait. 
Once this item has been obtained, the vampire must spend one hour using the item 
to create a doll that represents the intended victim. 
The second item required is a small piece of glass. This glass is placed on the doll, 
and the cabter must spend another hour chanting over the doll to complete the ritual. 
The vampire must be totally alone and undisturbed while intoning this ritual. 
If his concentration is broken, he must begin again. 
To activate the ritual, thevampiremust have bothdoll andglass in his possession 
(bothofwhichmustbe inthesamecondition theywereinwhen theritualwas enacted 
in order to preserve their magical properties), and he must be within 50 feet of the 
intended victim. The vampire points at the victim and snaps the glass. The resulting 
telekinetic force inflicts damage - 
up to and including severing the target’s head. 
System 
The player must present the Storyteller with an item card that represents a 
Due to the nature of this ritual, it should not be performed during downtime. 
After the ritual is completed, the player must make a Static Mental Challenge against 
12 Traits to see if his concentration is broken. If the player wins, the ritual is successful; if 
not, the ritual fails and the character must start all over with a new item from the victim. 
To activate the ritual, the player must defeat the victim in a Mental 
Challenge. If the player wins the challenge, he decides how many Willpower to 
spend to fuel the effect. For each Willpower spent, the victim suffers one health 
level of damage. If the caster spends four Willpower, the full effect of the ritual is 
imposed and the victim’s head is severed from her body. 
personal item of the victim’s before the ritual can begin. 
T H E  GIET 
“The infiltraaon was successful?” the weathered old woman asked, peenng int( 
recruit’s soul (or so it felt). 
“Yes, Excellency,” the young Assamite nodded. “And I returned with the boa 
the one you asked for. ” 
“Most amanng, Ramhi,” the old woman sad, as if she had sad the same worc 
countless other recruits ame and again. “You are to be rewarded most handsomely. I rt 
that 1 cannot offer you your target’s blood-” 
“By your grace, Excellency ,” Ramsh murmured. 
“-but 
1 can make your night-hunting easier.” Turning to a door recessed ir 
adobe wall behind her, the old woman called out, “Malakai~” 
MA s T E R- LE 
V E  I” THAW 
M ATU R 9 
Y RI T w A LS 
(6 
@ 


Moments later, a dark-skinned man dressed in scholarly robes that had gone out of 
fashion centunes ago appeared through the door. “Yes, Excellency,” he sad quietly. “My 
studies proceed slowly now that Brother Raintree has disappeared.” 
“You will take Ramshi to your chamber and bestow upon hzm the benefit of your 
supernatural senses ,” the old woman said, ignonng Malakai’s quiet protest. Ramshz tned 
not to break out in a proud smile. 
Malakui’s shoulders slumped m a  gesture that would have been a sigh if Malakai still 
breathed. “By your command, Excellency ” 
This ritual allows the thaumaturge to transfer his Disciplines to another, through 
a laying on of hands. The exact Disciplines and number are up to the thaumaturge. 
This ritual was often used as a form of reward for service among the antttnbu. 
Requirements 
The material component of this ritual is a silver mirror, a Trait of the caster’s 
blood and one Trait of the recipient’s blood. 
The caster mixes the blood Traits together and writes the name of the 
Disciplines she wishes to transfer onto the surface of the mirror. Once this is 
completed, both parties touch the mirror for the prescribed time. 
System 
The ritual requires 15 minutes of contact per Discipline transferred. 
The Tremere player must succeed in a Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If 
she wins, the character transfers exactly the amount of the Discipline she intended. 
If the player ties, the caster transfers less than intended; if the player fails, the caster 
transfers more than intended. In either case, it is up to the Storyteller to be the final 
arbiter of exactly how much of the intended Discipline is transferred. 
You may not use this ritual to give a character a level of a Discipline that he 
could not normally achieve. In other words, you cannot use the ritual to give a 
13th-generation vampire a Master-Level Discipline. 
The transfer of Disciplines affects the donor and recipient in the following 
way: The donor looses Disciplines from the highest level down, and the recipient 
gains Disciplines from the lowest level up. 
Example: Cassiodorus, an aged Tremere, uses The Gift on Bobby, a Brujah in 
his service, to give Bobby Heightened Senses. Cassiodorus loses his highest level of 
the Auspex Discipline - 
in this case Psychic Projectton - 
at the end of the ritual. 
Transferred Disciplines can be bought back by the donor at the normal 
Experience Trait costs. (See Laws of the Night, page 61.) 
Ian looked doeon at the sobbing woman at his feet, then glanced around quickly to see 
ifanyone could hear her cries fur help. He had always had a taste fur blondes, but they could 
never seem to keep their mouths shut when he tried to feedfrom him. It was really annoying. 
“You bit me,” the woman sobbed, cowering her neck and sliding back up against the 
steps of her apartment building. “Why did you bite me?” 
Concentratingjust as his sire had taught him, Ianreachedinto the woman’s eyes with 
his own and said, “I never bit you, woman. You were mugged by two men.” The 
woman grew quiet instantly as her mind processed the information Ian had planted there. 
However, he still had not had a chance to feed.. . . 


“Now close your eyes,” he said The woman obeyed. “Tilt back your head. The 
woman did as lan commanded. “Now relax.” The woman’s shoulder’s slumped. 
Conwinced that his victcm would gwe him no more problems, Ian closed his eyes and 
leaned close to the woman’s cold neck like a lover with- 
cold neck? 
Something struck lan in the chest and he flew backward through the air. A moment 
later, his back connected with afire-escape ladder and he crumpled to the ground, unable 
to move. Something was stuck through his chest. It felt like his weins were tied to a rock 
that wassinkinginquicksand. The petite blondestareddownat htmwithglowingredeyes, 
silhouetted against the flickenng streetlights. 
“For a Keeper of Elysium, you’re pretty dense,” she mocked, all traces offear and 
submission gone. She hoisted him painfully onto her shoulder with one hand and leaped 
up to catch the fire escape with the other. “At least it’llmake you easy to control. Bishop 
Mark likes them easy. ” 
This ritual is very useful when you do not wish to be spied upon through use of 
Auspex. O f  the anambu rituals, this one is used most frequently. However, use of this 
ritual when dealing with others in the Tremere hierarchy is not looked upon kindly. 
Requirements 
This ritual requires an object, such as a hatpin or earring, that is made entirely 
of iron, and a lodestone that has been soaked in the blood of the caster for three 
nights prior to the ritual. O n  the third night, the caster must spend an hour 
speaking an incantation while rubbing the lodestone over the surface of the iron 
object. At the end of the hour, the object takes on a reddish color and is ready to 
use. The object must then be worn on the head in some fashion - 
as a hairpin, an 
earring, a tlara or whatever. 
While the ritual is in effect, the caster is virtually immune to Auspex. Anyone 
attempting to use this Discipline on the caster notices that something is wrong, but 
not what. The effect of the ritual lasts until the next sunrise or until the object IS 
removed from the caster’s head. 
System 
The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player 
wins, the ritual is a success; if not, the ritual fails. 
While under the effects of this ritual, the character receives the Mental Traits: 
Ihscipkwd x5, which can only be used to defend against Auspex-related challenges. 
Additionally, the character receives a free retest on each Auspex-related challenge he loses. 
While under the effects of this ritual, acharacter may not relent to any Au 
challenge. Thus, you cannot choose to let an ally communicate with yo1 
Telepathy; you would have to lose both the initial challenge and the free retc 
communicate telepathically. 
S H A D O  w o E T H  
F: W o  
L E  
“Bretheren,” the ancient-looking Siker Fang called Knows-His-Words, said 
rily as dawn neared, “you have defended this place well agams t our enemies, the waml 
Many ofour kin have fallen this night, but their stories will be told throughout the a 
Some ofthe othersgrowled their agreement, but nos t p t  sat stdm exhaustion and list 
“Though the leeches’ treachery war most foul,” the Fang continued, “though 
tned to betray me under aflagof truce two nights ago, we hawe yet prewailed. Your! 
will be sung by the tale-keepers for ages hence. ” 
M A S T  E R- LEV EL” TH A U  MAT U R Cj Y RI 
T u A LS 
4 4  
I 


Again, the remaining Garou could raise only weary enthusiasm ower the Fang’s 
words. Many had died in the night, and those left had suffered griewously. 
“I want you to know,” the Fang continued, seeming to sag a bit where he stood, 
though his voice picked up speed, “that you hawe done me aserwice as well. You hawe taken 
care of those who would have been my greatest riwals. For that I will sing your praises. ” 
The others raised confused eyebrows at that, but the Silver Fang only smiled and took an 
illustrious bow. The sky lightened in the east. When the Fang tumd, his skin was lined with even 
more wrinkles than it had been a moment ago. His brow was heawy with concern, or so it seemed. 
“And now I go to rest , ” he said, suddenly full of life despite his appearance. 
He raised his a m  in a fluid motion and shrugged mightily. With a sound like a sheet 
tearing, he stepped back and sloughed off the outer layer of his skin. Now, standing before 
the remaining Garou was a thin, pale man with a long black ponytail and a vicious smik. He 
bowed again, stepped back into the s M w  of the trees and disappeared with the skin of 
Knows-His-Words danglingraggedfrom his hand. Before the Garou could rouse themselwes 
to give chase, they heard a sound like laughter in the forest surrounding the caem. All around 
them, wague, twisted shapes clawed and squirmed out of the Umbra and crept closer.. . . 
This potent ritual allows a vampire to actually become a Lupine for one 
evening. The material component is a cloak made from the skin of a werewolf. The 
tribe to which the vampire “belongs” depends upon the type of skin used in the 
ritual; Auspice is always Theurge. 
While the ritual imparts the form of a Lupine, it does not bestow the vampire 
any Gifts, Rites or knowledge of how to act like a Garou. It behooves the vampire 
to have at least one level of Garou Lore before attempting this ritual. 
Requirements 
The vampire must chant over the ill-gotten Lupine skin for an hour-and-a-half 
while sprinkling his own blood around it. At the end of that time, the vampire dons 
the cloak, which fuses to his own skin for the remainder of the evening. Once this 
process is complete, the vampire becomes (for all intents and purposes) a Lupine. The 
cloak separates from the vampire at sunrise, and may be reused, although the ritual 
must be repeated each time the vampire wishes to become a werewolf thereafter. 
System 
Upon completion of the ritual, the player engages in a Static Mental 
Challenge versus 14 Traits to determine if the ritual is successful. 
The player needs to create a werewolf character and identity using his vampire 
as a basis. The Lupine is subject to all the advantages and limitations of a normal 
Garou. It may change forms and it is vulnerable to silver. 
The werewolf begins with two Rage for each Beast Trait that the caster 
possesses, and one Gnosis. The player may attempt to raise these ratings asa normal 
Lupine would. 
If the caster reuses the cloak, the player must engage in a Simple Test to see 
if the skin is still viable for the ritual. 
The Garou Gift: Scent of True Form detects that there is something amiss 
about the “werewolf,” but it gives no specifics. 
The Garou Gift: Sense Wyrm detects Wyrm-taint if the vampire possess more 
than two Beast Traits. 
Unless the character has some level of the Ability: Garou Lore, he finds it nigh 
impossible to interact with Garou society. 


T- 
s P I D E R ’ S  W E B  
Marcel sliced the window pane away with hs glass-cutter and jimmied the lock open 
The place ddn’t even hawe an alarm system, which was odd, consdenng how adamant the 
man who’d hired him - 
a creepy old fart named Regrnald - 
had been about not gettmg 
caught Marcel med to tell the guy that nobody would go to so much trouble to protect a book, 
but the old dude ddn’t listen. It seemed Marcel was nght, after all. As usual 
With barely a sound, he pushed open the window sash, pushed back the heavy black 
curtainands~ppedquietly ins&. He seemed to be insome sort ofdrawingroom, but that was 
all he could tell. Severaldusty c h r s  cluttered the flour The dour to the hallway (wluchwould 
hopefully lead to the basement where Regnald sad the book would be) hung open Keeping 
close to tha w& to awoid squeaky floorboards, Marcel made hs way into the hallway 
The corndm was pitch-dark. The intruder went no more t h n  a few steps when his 
leg tangled in something and he had to stop. He tned to brace himself to pull himself free 
- 
it felt like he’d stepped onto a huge flysmp - 
but he only managed to get his ann 
entangled a.5 well. After a few moments of squirming, Marcel realized that he was 
completely trapped 
what felt like grasping lquid hands He desperately decided to use 
his ghs-cutter when the lights in the hallway snapped on almost audibly. 
When the spots stopped dancing in front of his eyes, Marcel could see what had 
entangled him: webs Either hundreds of them or one mother-lowin’ huge one. He started 
to struggle frantically - 
what kind of spider makes webbing like this? - 
but he only 
succeeded in minng himself further. 
From behind, Marcel heard footsteps followed by cold laughter He could not even 
turn his heal to look by that point 
“‘Order-in dining’ indeed,” an old woman mused seemingly to herself “Quite 
entertaining, Reonald. Quite entertaining ” 
This ritual allows a vampire to create a web that resembles an actual spider’s 
web in all respects. The difference is that the webbing can fill an entire room and 
is strong enough to capture and hold victims immobile The webbing lasts until it 
is tom down, making it an excellent defense for a haven. 
~ 
Requirements 
Before enacting this ritual, the vampire must obtain a black widow spider and 
feed it vitae on seven consecutive evenings. O n  the final evening, 
crushes the spider in a marble container and consumes it While invoking a chant, 
the vampire begins to exude webbing from her hands. This webbing can be shnned 
into any form and can cover up to 400 square feet. 
I 
System 
The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits to coml 
this ritual successfully. 
The character is immune to any webbing he creates; he can move fi 
throughout it. This does not mean, however, that the character can climb or 
strands. He simply does not get stuck as others do. 
If a different character contacts the web, he is stuck. A victim may attem 
tear or cut himself free by winning three Static Physical Challenges versus t 
Traits. Potence retests are allowed. 
If a character wishes to enter the web and avoid getting stuck, a test is reqi 
using a dexterity-based Physical Trait (Nimble, Athletic) versus 12 Traits. 
MAST E R- LE v E L” THAW 
M ATU R cj Y RI T w A LS 
66 
@ 


3 
by Shane De Freeat 
Eye Theatre characters in The h
g
 
Night 
have an opportunity to get in on the actton! 
Presented here are several Discipline-com- 
bination powers that can be found in Vampire 
The Dark Ages, built for use in The Long Night. ." 
future Libellus Sanguinis releases showcase the unique 
capabilities of the clans, expect more combination Disciplines to rise under the 
light of the moon. 
Learning a combination Discipline requires a great deal of effort. In addition to 
requiring certain levels of proficiency in various Disciplines, combination Disciplines 
have their own Experience Trait costs. Furthermore, many of these powers are known 
to only a few scattered members of specific clans; such esoterica requires unusual 
dedication and study. A Storyteller is well within rights to limit the selection of 
available combination Disciplines, requiring characters to seek out elder mentors and 
to undertake harrowing training and quests in pursuit of these unusual capabilities. 
A R M O R O E  
DARKNESS 
(Basic Fortitude, Intermediate Obtenebration) 
We lured the damned thing that used to be wise Lord Albert into the stables. The 
brave lads who muck the stalk; barred the doors, locking the monster inside. Archibald, 
the former squire to the unliving knight, ordered torches lightedandflame-arrows notched. 
At his order, we rained our fire on the stables, turnzng the dry tinder to a beacon that 
pushed back the night. We hughedin contempt at Lord Albert's unholy screamsfor mercy 
andabsolutton. Then, suddenly, the screams turned tomocking laughter, and the burnmg 
stabledoorflewapart likematchsticks. Archibaldfroze: Therein thedoorway, silhouetted 
by hungry flame and crashing ruin, stood Lord Albert m amor darker than nighted 
shadow. Albert advanced on his erstwhile squire, but I learned not the fate ofeither. Devil 
hound us all, the others and I fled, leaving Archibald to hu fate. 
Combining a vampire's preternatural resilience with the inky shadowstuff of 
Obtenebration, some Magisters are able to cloak themselves in adarkness that resists 
the pall of fire and sunlight. So armored, these fearsome Lasombra venture into 
even daylight to further their schemes. 


 
expenditure of a Social Trait, you may choose to shape it into the guises of various 
forms of night-black clothing or armor. 
Activating Armor of Darkness requires the expenditure of a Willpower Trait, and the 
further expenditure of three Mental Traits for each level of protection. Maintaining the 
armor then requires concentration; all actions undertaken while garbed increase in diff iculty 
by one Trait. The armor lasts until destroyed by fire or sunlight; each level of protection 
absorbs one level of damage from such sources, until the shadows are burned away. 
Learning this power requires commerce with one of the few and secretive Magisters 
who practices it, and it costs eight Experience Traits. 
A U R A O E  
INESCAPABLE 
TRUTH 
(Intermediate Dominate, Intermediate Presence) 
“Who invited you to my court?” the Ventrue Prince Valmont asked, peering lazily from 
his oaken throne. The assassin thoughtfun’ously , silently recounting the details ofthe story he’d 
practiced time and again, and thanking the Maker that he could no longer sweat. The pnnce’s 
harpies and his wizened, scrawny seneschal leaned closer. They eyed the assassin like circling 
wultures--merely interestedat present, but in strikingdistance skould things turn to theirfawor . 
“I.. . ” the assassin stammered, his fingers twitching toward the poisoned knife in his sleewe- 
sheathe. Why couldn’t he just use his story? He could remember it; why couldn’t he just say it? 
“Tell me why you have come to my domain!” 
“I.. . the seneschal hired me to kill you,” the assassin gasped. 
“I see,” Valmont said, leaning back, glancing at his second as his harpies and guards 
closed ranks. “How interesting.. . .” 
A favorite of Ventrue courts, this formidable power combines direct mental 
control with subtle influence to force subjects to speak only the truth. Though taxing, 
this power is unquestionably vital to the political battlefields of elder Cainites. 
When establishing the Aura of Inescapable Truth, you must expend a Will- 
power Trait, and then engage in a mass Social Challenge against everyone who can 
see your face (risking one Social Trait for each target). If you win the challenge, 
nobody under the influence of the power may deliberately speak untruthfully; 
those who attempt to do so simply find themselves unable to speak at all, though 
a target may still speak an untruth if he behewes it to be true. 
The Aura of Inescapable Truth does not force victims to remain within your 
presence, nor does it continue to function if they leave. The power’s activation and 
influence are automatically noticeable to anyone affected. As with all Dominate 
powers, vampires of lower generation than yourself are unhindered by this power, 
although this may not be immediately apparent. 
This power costs 11 Experience Tram to dewelop. 
BLESSED RESILIENCE 
(Master Fortitude, Intermediate Mortis) 
Isawztall, begmnzngtoend. I w a  therewhenmymasterfelltothebngands’swords. 
They encircled him like apack of dogs, then fell on him like staraed ravens. He met them 


bravely, his ‘own sword biting deep, but the brigands were too many. My heart broke to 
merely watch-withoutgivingaid- 
but1 hadmy orders. “Those ofmy bloodhavemade 
dire enemies,” my master said. “Should I fall to treachery, you must deliver my body to 
my sanctum and wait with it there.” 
I protested when he told me, but tonight I saw him fall, and I have done as I was bid. 
I have loved and served my master well, but I fear that even his s&s 
of death and the soul 
are no match for- But lo, he s tin! God be puisedforreturningmy master to mefium beyond 
the very graue! Let his enemies tremble! Yes, come, master. Take my hand.. . . 
With command of incredible resilience and unmatched insight into the secrets 
of death, the Cappadocians are the undisputed masters of death during the Long 
Night. For the truly dedicated Cappadocian, even the grave itself may be overcome. 
When extinguished- beaten, burned, cut or otherwise driven to Final Death 
- 
you may draw upon your monumental reserves to pull yourself back across the 
threshold of destruction. You immediately expend all of your remaining Blood 
Traits and two Willpower Traits (plus one additional Willpower Trait for each 
severed limb that must re-attach to your body). If you do not have sufficient 
Willpower, you fail to rise. Otherwise, your body parts crawl back together and re- 
knit (as long as they are nearby - 
within about 10 paces or so). You then return 
to the Incapacitated health level. 
When you exercise Bkssed Resilience, you tax your supernatural reserves to 
their absolute limits. Effectively, your generation rises by one - 
a seventh- 
generation Cappadocian using this power is considered eighth-generation afterward, 
with all of the concomitant losses to Blood Traits, Willpower Traits, Attribute 
Traits and high-level Disciplines. This weakening is permanent, though you may 
still lower your generation later through diablerie. 
Unearthing the masterful Blessed Resilience costs 18 Experience Traits. 
BLOOD P B A R L O E T H E ~ O M B U  
(Basic Mortis, Basic Necromancy, Basic Thaumaturgy, and at least two 
Intermediate levels or one Advanced level in these Disciplines) 
I wasn’t good enough, they said. They told me I didn’t have the power and discipline 
to control the dead. Officious bastards. Augustus wouldn’t have put up with thutgarbage 
if they’d said it to him. I studied the dead, magic and the occult - 
the modern theories - 
for years before these “scholars” came along. I know what I’mdoing. The deadcandance 
on my strings just as easily as theirs. I uncovered this body myself. I preserved it. I even 
infused my blood into the pearl completely on my o m .  
And the corpse rises, just like I said it would. It rises! Now I’ll show those bastards 
who’s “not good enough”! 
The rombu, more commonly called “zombies,” are unfailing servants of the 
Clan of Death. For young members of the clan, the necessary expertise in the Mortis 
Discipline is impossible to achieve due to the simple impediment of generation. 
However, by combining research of the recently inducted Giovanni with more 
general magical knowledge, it is possible for even novices to develop a means to 
create unliving servants. 
By distilling two Blood Traits into a special magical pearl-like sphere (a 
process requiring eight hours of work, and thus generally performed outside the 
confines of game time), you may enchant your blood to animate a corpse. Success 
C O M B I N E D  DISCIPLINES 
Ion THE LONC~ 
N I ~ H T  
@ 


[in; you must place the blood pearl in the mouth of the corpse and make 
?ental Challenge (difficulty 6). If you succeed, the formerly inert corpse 
qombu under your direct control for the remainder of the evening, 
; 
into dust at sunrise. 
zombu has the Attribute Traits it possessed in life, although Dextrous, 
id Quick are replaced with Tenacious, Tireless or Tough. The creation also 
.e health levels it possessed in life, but does not suffer wound penalties. 
blood pearl created by this ritual works on only true corpses -vampires 
are not atfected by it. 
a library or mentor after achieving the requisite levels of skill in Disciplines. 
As a ritual, this power does not cost Expenence Traits, but it must be studiedfrom 
BODY ARMORY 
(Intermediate Protean, Intermediate Vicissitude) 
Reinhart clutched the ruby tight in one fist and crouched in the moonshadow of the 
baron’s castle. A few quick seconds would put him in the woods and near enough to the 
river where he’d h&n 
his rowboat. He heard that the baron was no man to make an 
enemy of- 
some rumurs ewen suggested that the lord devoured those who crossed him 
- 
but Reinhart cared only for the ruby. It had belonged to his family before the baron had 
established his “domain” here. Let the peasants whisper about the “hellspawn” that 
guarded the baron’s gates; Reinhart had seen none when he sneaked in. Let the ignorant 
fanners believe that the nobleman drank blood and tortured his enemies for amusement; 
all Reinhart knew was that in another few moments he would reach his boat and be safely 
away with the means to restore his family’s fortune. 
“Ah, Hew Reinhart,” a thzckly accented voice said as a hand fell heavily on his 
shoulder. Reinhart turned to see the baron himself, dressed in all his lordly finery, peering 
down at him. Reinhart had not ewen heard him approach. “I believe you are trespassing.” 
Reinhartmadeasiftosay something, butanobjectinthe baron’shandgave himpawe. 
It appeared to be a spade, but it seemed to grow and elongate, like watchingan icicle melt, 
until the baronappe~edtobeholdinga~kedly 
longspearhead. Reinhartquailedas thelord 
spoke again, raising the weapon into the moonlight. When the baron did so, Reinhart could 
see that he held no object in his hand at d; 
the insmment held aloft was the man’s hand. 
sorts of hand-held weapons. 
Turning a limb into a weapon with this power costs one Blood Trait, two 
Traits for two-handed weapons. Only hand weapons may be imitated - 
you 
cannot fashion a bow and arrows out of your body. 
This power costs nine Expenence Traits. 
DARK 
STEEL 
(Intermediate Obtenebratiun, Intermediate Potence) 
“You hide from me in darkness, ” Adrienne sighed, her lilting voice carrying into the 
rocky niche where Michael hid, halfway up the cold mountainside. “How quaint.” 


Michael almost shot back that he would sooner be wed to a fishmonger’s spotty 
daughter than to the blasphemous parody of a woman Adrienne had become, but a sound 
outside his hiding place stopped him. Something long and heawy slid along the ground 
outside. It sounded like someone dragging a tree. 
“But you denied me, Michael,” Adrienne went on. “You should hawe run sooner and 
farther.” As she spoke, a column of ebon smoke (or so it seemed to Michael) snaked into his 
shelter and coiled around h ankle like an iron manacle. He shrieked, and the black tentacle 
hoisted him roughly out of the hole and into the air. He dangkd upside down like an animal 
caught in a snare, blubbenng in terror as Adrienne - 
beautiful, damned Adrienne - 
emergedfrm the shadows. The tentacle around Michael’s foot curried him closer w her. 
“Now, Michael, let us talk of Hell and the fury that only it can cowet.” 
Perhaps one of the most fearsome combination powers known, Dark Steel 
imbues the shades of Obtenebration with the unnatural might of Potence. Shade 
tentacles conjured with the Arms of Ahriman become frighteningly strong. 
Should you choose to use Dark Steel, you must expend a Blood Trait upon 
activating Arms of Ahriman. Summoning the tentacles themselves proceeds as 
usual, but the tentacles have six Physical Traits, plus two more Physical Traits for 
each additional Blood Trait expended. 
Learning this power requires the expenditure of nine Expm‘ence Traits. 
HATCHTHE 
VIPER 
(Basic Protean, Intermediate Seeentis) 
“Bring him before me,” Gillem proclaimed, motioning the guards to stand back and 
let the wisitorstepforward. “I will hear this blackguard’s message in the prince’s absence. 
It is better than he deserwes, certainly.” 
The wisitur, a suspected Follower of Set, strode forward, smiling audaciously at the 
prince’s seneschal, ewen winking at Gillem! The pnnce’s courtiers tittered at that, but 
none of them showed the proper decorum by deigning to scoff. Gillem made a note to 
himself that it was time for new attendants. The pnnce would have to be made aware of 
that when he returned. 
“You have a message?” the seneschal asked, when the alleged Setite stopped boldly 
in front ofhim. He was, admittedly, rather handsome up close, ifa bit aloof. 
The Setiteonly noddedalittlestiffly, butsaidnothing. Gillemleanedcloser, towenng 
ower the slim Egyptian man. “Then speak.” 
The Egyptian’s +-oat pulsedand he opened his mouth with a reptihn hiss. Gillem cried 
to scream, but it was too late. Something grubbed his throat in an iron grip and began to coil 
abouthisneckandshoul. T~SetiteonlysmiLdandwanlshedbeforeGiUem’sbulgifigeyes. 
A disturbing power known to only Setites, this combination of Disciplines 
allows a Serpent to disgorge a living viper from his very mouth. The Follower of Set 
concentrates his vitae and forms it into a serpentine ghoul, which he vomits forth 
in a horrifying gout of scaly flesh. 


A full turn of concentration must precede the birth of a serpent, and you must 
expend two Blood Traits. The serpent is considered a ghoul and exhibits the Foratude 
Discipline at the level of Endurance. With a poisonous bite, the viper can be deadly 
to mortals; it is considered to possess the Physical Traits: Lithe x2 and Qwck x2. If the 
serpent is not fed one Blood Trait every week, it dissolves into poisonous blood-like 
bile that causes two health levels of damage to anyone foolish enough to drink it. 
You may sustain more than one serpent, but each must be fed blood if it is to 
survive. Serpents created with this power typically display distinctive patterns and 
personalities that may be traced to their creator. Your Storyteller can issue a card 
representing your ghoulish serpents. 
This power costs nine Expenence Traits. 
T H E  ILLNESS 
UNVEILED 
(Basic Ausgex, Master Fortitude) 
“Heismostgnevously ill,” the hermitsaid, leaningover thesickchild’s body tospeak 
to his mother. “You are wise to have brought hzm to me.” 
“I thankyou, but theysayyouservetheDevil,”Magdastammered, 
unsettledby thehermit’s 
gaze. “In the town, that is, sir. But not I.” The hermit only laughed at Magda’s dscomfort and 
laul IS withered hands on her son’s forehead. He sard no prayers; he used no herbs; he dd not 
even light the fire beneath the iron pot in the comer of his cabin. The apothecary in topun s a d  that 
thts man could heal her son, but Magda grew m e  and more uneasy by the moment. 
The boy suddenly broke out in a cold sweat, his legs twitching and kicking. His lips 
bared back from his teeth m a  snarl, and his back arched. Skll, the hermit said nothing; 
he only stood with his gnarled, rootlike hands on the boy’s face. 
Magda’s eyes grew wzde - 
surely this was not natural! The townsfolk were nght; 
this hermit was in league with Satan. She wavered, then reached a tentatwe hand toward 
her son, the other makinga crude wardinggesture. The hermit’s wiry hands tlghtened on 
her son, and in one final gasp the boy lay silent. 
“Theworstispassing,” the hermitsadat last. Theoldmanlookedlikehehadexerted 
himselfagreathal, but didnot seem to be breathinghard. “The boy willrecover in time.” 
The hermit stood silent for a moment, then glanced up at Magda. As the woman put a 
hand on her son’s brow, the hermit grabbed her wnst. 
“And now,” he whispered, “kt us discuss my payment.” 
By diagnosing a victim through the use of supernatural senses, and then sharing 
vampiric preternatural resilience, it is possible to help mortals through the throes of 
dangerous diseases. In an age rife with plagues and sickness, this is a very useful ability 
for keeping one’s retainers alive (especially for the Cappadocians, whose Lamia 
servitors have an unfortunate tendency to pass on rather hideous and fatal infections). 
You must make a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty eight Traits) in order to 
diagnose a disease successfully; this diagnosis is subject to the limitations of your 
Medicine knowledge. Once you diagnose a disease, you may bolster the victim’s 
resistance with your own. Make a Static Physical Challenge with a difficulty 
determined by the nature of the disease: five Traits for a common cold, up to nine 
for typhoid and 12,15 or more for particularly nasty afflictions such as Black Plague 
(the Lamia disease rates 18 Traits). A successful challenge allows the victim to 
begin recovering, although the process may still take days or weeks. 
This power costs 10 Expenence Trazts to learn. 


R E T A I N T H E  QUICK 
BLOOD 
(Intermediate Celerity, Intermediate Quietus) 
Right now, I am “feeding. ” I appeared in silence and scythed through the gwcrds and 
retainers ofthis city’s prince OM hour ago, only to use up the last ofmy vitae before laying 
into my “true” quarry. I barely escaped the pnnce’s chambers before he called for 
reinforcements; the fact that I had to leave clues as to my destination only made matters 
doubly difficult. Now the city’s “sheriff‘ - 
one Eric Fit?-Walter - 
comes for me, 
confident in the assumption that I stalk the streets for kine blood before I can make good 
my escape. He has beenstompingaroundjust out ofsight since his shockedprince ordered 
meapgrehended. I have hadno chance tostopandfeed, and this sheriffdoubtlessly believes 
I am at the end of my reserves. He is so confident. Wouldn’t he be surprised to know that 
even as I slow to wait for him, my strength returns of its own accord? Wouldn’t he be 
surpnsed to learn that his very prince hired me to “get the bothersome Mister Fit?-Walter 
out of the way”? I think he would. Ah, he approaches. Perhaps I will ask him. 
The fearsome Assamites are capable of maintaining the power of their vitae, 
even after calling upon their blood for the preternatural speed of Celerity. An 
Assamite can cause the blood that energizes his limbs to trickle slowly back into 
his system to be spent again. 
When using this power, all Blood Traits expended for Celerity in a given 
conflict return after an hour. Should you ingest additional blood during this period, 
any returning blood that would exceed your normal Blood Trait limit is lost. Thus, 
if a vampire with a full blood pool expends two Traits of blood for Celerity, then 
drinks a single Blood Trait, the returning vitae simply grants one Blood Trait - 
the second returning Trait is lost because the vampire is already at the limit of his 
blood capacity. Returning blood “wasted” in this fashion literally seeps out of the 
vampire’s pores and tear ducts - 
a disturbing sight indeed. 
Mastery of this power requires the expenditure of eight Experience Traits. 
SHADOWED 
BYES 
(Intermediate Auspex, Intermediate Obtenebration) 
RudolphandGeraldstudied the body that lay by the crossroads. It was Lord Albert’s, 
for certain. They had been given the “demon’s” description in painstaking detail by the 
bishop. Rut rather thanfind the rampaging terror ofthe nighted countryside (as they’d been 
told) , they found this lifeless, unmoving corpse. Apparently, either the rumms were all 
false or the villagers had dealt with their own probkm. Quite a bother, actually. 
“Dead as they get,” Gerald said, spitting on the cold body’s lifeless face. “Dead and 
dumped. ” Hissalivaraninto the blackpools where ravenshadalready beenatlordAlbert’s eyes. 
“Don’t make sense ,” Rudolph observed, turning away from the discomforting body 
and lookinginto the surrounding woods, as ifexpectinganattack. “Too simple. And why 
didn’t anybody tell us when we got in? And why ha’en’t wolves been at the body if he’s 
been dead a while!” 
Gerald stood next to his longtime partner. As they talked, neither noticed Lord 
Albert’s “corpse” stir. The vampire sat up silently. The pools ofblackness fell away from 
his eyes like water drainingfrom a bath. Outraged by Gerald’s insult, Albert wiped the 
spit from his face and stood to his full height, a blood-song singing in his ears. 
“Mighty hunters,” he sneered. “Here is your prey.” 
C O M B I N E D  DISCIPLINES 
EOR THE  LON^ N I ~ H T  
e 


ough any Magister can see through the blackness created with his own use 
tebration, the blinding and smothering effects of the darkness disorient foes. 
L Lasombra needs to discomfit an opponent without relying upon blatant 
of shadow-shaping, precise control is required, as evidenced by this power. 
ien you invoke Shadowed Eyes (at the cost of one Physical Trait), you 
2 small patches of blackness that surround the eyes of your target. Obvi- 
lis blackness blinds your foe (see Laws of the Hunt for rules on darkness, 
7) and renders his appearance most unsettling (bestowing the Negative 
’rait: Bestial). Alternately, you may use this power on yourself, enabling you 
iidate your adversaries while retaining the ability to sense your surround- 
~ p .  
uoing so grants you the additional Social Trait: Intimidating. Shadowed Eyes 
remain for the duration of the conflict or for 10 minutes. 
Learning Shadowed Eyes costs six Experience Traits. 
S M O T H E R I N C ~  
DARKNESS 
(Basic Obfuscate, Basic Obtenebration) 
I chant and cry along with the others in the mob, though I feel a different fervor than 
they do. They are filled withfaith in their only-god, and they believe that they willrout this 
vampire with nothing more than piety and torches. They are fools. 
We crest the hill - 
the mob and I - 
and the vampire pee ts us from the battlements 
ofhis stronghold. He has the gall to wave as we come boilingover the crest likefire-bearing 
ants; he has even left hisgate open in mockinginvitation. Were I like the others in this mob, 
I might be afraid at his cavalier fearlessness, but I am not like the others. I understand my 
enemy. I alone have any power over him. 
As the mob comes within bowshot ofthe stronghold, the vampire suddenly s t a d  up 
straight and lifts his a m ,  as if to welcome us. Many within the mob shout insults or 
condemnations, and most gesture angrily with their torches. I do not. I carry no torch. 
Moments later, a mass of black shapes erupts from just behind the vampire and streams 
towardus. Oneamongthemobshouts, “Bats,” but1 know better. The blackshapesarrow 
straight for the torches, extinguishing the flames like vile black rain. 
Instantly, the night closes in on us and the mob erupts into chaos. Not I. I lift my 
head and shout defiance. I needed the others to lead me here. Now I shift down to four 
clawed feet and dart through the mass of terrified humans to the open gate. The blood- 
drinker will be mine. 
Mobile, “living” shadows are the hallmark of the Obtenebration Discipline, but 
with this power, you can send batlike shades to extinguish offending light sources 
- 
torches, lamps, candles and such. The shadows flit about, surrounding and 
smothering the brightest lights in the area, plunging the place into darkness. 
You must see (or otherwise sense) the light source that you wish to extinguish 
with this power. Each Mental Trait expended causes a shadow to seek out and 
extinguish one flame or light, up to the size of a torch. Particularly large flames may 
be susceptible to multiple shadows, at the Storyteller’s discretion. These shadows 
have actual physical substance. Though they cannot injure, they can certainly 
startle and confuse; shadows summoned without a target flap about, causing noise 
and bumping into things for the duration of the conflict (or 10 minutes). 
This power costs five Experience Traits to learn. 


* 
i 
t 
ANY MOTHFR’S CHILD 
by Carl Bowen 
Inspired by a Vampire character created by Hannah Curry 
We intend to include a piece of World of Darkness fiction in every issue of the Journal. 
We hope to showcase talented new writers (one of whom I am not - 
new, that is) who might 
not have a chance to appear elsewhere. Plus, fiction dealing with the World of Darkness offers 
insightsintothelivesand timesofthepeople (i.e., thechracters) whoinhabitit, andsuchinsights 
ofJeryou(asplarersandStorytellers)~vorandspice tomake your Mind’sEye Theatregames 
all the m
e
 
attractiwe. Mind’s Eye Theatre releases should be simultaneously entertaining and 
useful. This piece, in particular, serves as a look at how derangements driwe characters to 
dangerous, thoughtless deeds, yet can sometimes serwe to make them all too human. 
The mother grabbed her daughter by the collar a bit too roughly and pulled her 
close. People pressed in on all sides, crowding to get on the trains that would take them 
away from the war-blighted countryside to one of the ghetto-towns. The mother feared 
losing her daughter in the crowd. They had been marched to the train yard days away 
from their home, and not once had the woman let her daughter out ofher sight. The girl 
told her mother that she was supposed to get on a different train, but the mother didn’t 
listen. She stoically led her daughter to her own train- the trainshe should be boarding 
with her husband and son - 
determined that she would keep the girl with her. 
Dmitri, the father, had to fight. He had to demand that the soldiers leave them alone. 
The soldiers took the boy first; a soldier shot him through the head as Dmitri stared in mute 
horror. Dmitri fell next as his wife and daughter looked on. It all happened so fast that the 
mother had no chance to do anything before the soldiers restrained her. They would 
probably have killed Dmitri anyway, but if he hadn’t tried to fight them, perhaps.. .. 
Now, the mother would not be left alone. She clamped a vise-like hand on her 
daughter’s shoulder and moved toward her own train. She would not raise her coming 
unborn child alone. The soldiers would not tell them why they were being herded and 
prodded. They were not even Jewish as many of the shouting, jeering soldiers seemed 
to think, but there seemed to be no reason other than random chance why she and her 
daughter should be split up. Perhaps if she got her daughter onto the train with her 
before the soldiers noticed.. . . 
A sharp blow to the back sent the mother sprawling, dragging her daughter to 
the ground with her. She turned to see a soldier towering over her with his rifle 
upraised, his body silhouetted in the last red rays of sunset. He shouted at her in his 
language that sounded like barking dogs, then pointed at the girl. The mother 
clutched her daughter tighter with one hand and put the other to her stomach. 
The soldier brought the rifle stock down on her again, sending screaming 
white non-images through her brain. He shouted and pointed again, looking even 
more like a barking dog, his billowing winter-breath like an enraged canine’s froth. 
Others of his pack gathered around, pushing back people who tried to see what was 
going on. One of the soldiers grabbed the woman’s daughter and tried to pull her 
to her feet. The girl clutched more tightly to her mother. 
A N Y  MOTHER’S CHILD 
@ 


The screaming soldier brought the rifle down again, still shouting his unintelligible 
language, and the world went dark. Or perhaps the sun finally set. The mother could not tell. 
v
r
 
The woman almost catches the lone girl, but the orphan is clever and eludes 
capture. The woman looks in trashdumpsters andglances occasionally at creaking fire 
escapes, but the girl is nowhere to be found. Surely she does not think that the woman 
would hurt her? She only wants to take care of the child. To give her a home and family 
again. To protect her. This is no place to be alone. 
v
v
 
The mother awoke in a cold tent with a bandage above her left eye and a 
frightening soreness beneath her stomach. She heard the muted sound of the 
soldiers’ barking outside, and she could see that the sun had long since set. The air 
still smelled like crowds and machine oil, so she knew she was in the train yard, but 
she wondered why she had not been packed unconscious onto one of the trains. 
The woman lifted her head stiffly and looked around for her daughter. The girl 
was not in the tent. Perhaps that was why the woman had not been moved. Maybe 
her daughter had been sent on ahead. Alarmed, the woman called out the girl’s name. 
“She has not been harmed,” a voice assured her in broken Polish. “She is 
waiting. Calm yourself.” 
The woman turned, sore muscles protesting, to find a tall soldier slouching just 
inside the tent flap. He wore a long leather coat, belted at the waist, with a bent-edged 
cross on a red arm band below his left shoulder. He removed his hat, smoothed his 
close-cut blond hair and crouched down beside her. Reluctantly, she calmed down. 
“You put up fight,” the man said, his sparkling blue eyes boring into her with 
an unsettling fascination. “Why?” 
Certainly, she hadn’t been the only one to do so. Why had this soldier singled her out? 
“Where is my daughter?” 
“Yes, I see,” the man nodded, apparently understanding only the last two 
“My daughter ...” 
“Yes, yes,” the man said. He lay a hand absently on the woman’s leg, where it 
showed through a rip in her skirt. “I keep you together somewhere else. You will 
not go the bad towns with the cattles.” 
The woman said nothing; she only shivered in dread. Her daughter would be 
returned to her and they would be spared whatever fate awaited those who rode the trains, 
but they would survive on the mercy of this man. This man with his unsettling eyes. The 
woman squirmed in the grasp he had on her leg. His hand was unnaturally cold, even in 
the winter air. What was more, his breath did not make white clouds when he spoke. 
words of the woman’s answer. “Loyalty is most noble, no?” 
The old woman stops her search and stands alone in the middle of the street. Young 
people on either side pause to look at her (this strange, frantic creature wearing outdated, 
shapeless homespun). They move on without interest when she fails to amuse them. 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


-+? 
i 
e 
She has lost sight of the orphan-child. It is not the first time -she has birthed 
many children who fled her or fell from grace - 
but each is still heart-breaking in 
its own way. Why must they always go? Why can none of them trust her and stay 
with her when all she wants to do is protect them and take care of them? Not even 
her friends - 
those too old to be her children- 
believe her capable of this. Why? 
And where is the child? Doesn’t she know that the soldiers are out there right 
now, lying in wait to take her unawares? 
v
v
 
The woman did not see the tall blond man again for several months. The 
morning after she and her daughter were reunited, a truck full of leering, slavering 
soldiers arrived and packed them off to an encampment miles from their home. 
When they arrived, a kapo - 
a rail-thin, balding man who sneered behind the 
backs of the soldiers, though he treated the prisoners no less roughly - 
took them 
to a cramped tent behind a ramshackle barracks and ordered them to remain there 
until summoned. He spoke only the barking language, but his angry gestures and 
the short cudgel he was allowed to carry said enough. 
They stayed, clinging to each other wordlessly, until the kapo returned. He 
ordered the mother to stand and follow him, which she did with trembling knees. 
She whispered to her child to stay in the tent until she came back, and the kapo hit 
her across the mouth. Clamping a powerful hand around her elbow, he dragged her 
away from her child. Her unborn baby gave a feeble kick, and was still. 
The woman stops and listens to the night wind. The barren street rustles with 
discarded litter and scurrying, furtive footsteps, but no one reveals himself in the 
garish pink-orange of the streetlights. The child is gone, but now someone follows 
the woman. Faint footsteps begin to grow louder and more distinct, and someone 
calls her name from a great distance. Panicking, the woman darts away in the 
direction she last saw the child. She must find the girl before the other one - 
the 
one in pursuit - 
tries to take her. The woman has done too much, suffered too 
much, to let anyone take the child now. She hears the crying of a lost and lonely 
soul, and she homes in on it like an arrow. The child will be safe; she will see to that. 
v
v
 
For the next few months, the woman lived in Hell. Every day, sometimes as many 
as five or six times, the kapo dragged her to yet another of the dog-soldiers to be abused. 
Life so far from the front, in the harsh winter climate, had stoked raging furnaces in the 
soldiers’ hearts. When there were no men to kill, the woman served as that rage’s only 
vent. Aside from her daughter, she was the only female for miles, and “subhuman” (as 
they told her she was) or not, she filled a niche. 
In the first weeks, whenever she came into the presence ofa soldier who had not yet 
seen her, she would beg him to not hurt her. She pleaded on behalf of her unborn child; 
she cried out of her own fear; she pleaded that if she died, no one would take care of her 
daughter. Nothing changed the soldiers’ minds. Those who even understood her only 
laughed or beat her. The woman eventually learned not to beg. It brought only more 
abuses and punishments, and the very mention of her daughter brought frightening, 
A N Y  M O T H E R ’ S  CHILD 


lascivious looks to the men’s faces. By the end of the second month, she had learned to 
not cry or show fear at all. When the baby she was carrying died at the beginning of the 
third month, she did not even shed a tear, though the pain and anguish wrenched her 
into an immobile ball for days after the aborted delivery. She watched as the barking 
soldiers casually tossed the dead thing that should have been a child into a refuse pile, and 
she did not cry. When she heard the jokes the soldiers made - 
the most popular one 
asking if the “roadblock” had been cleared - 
she pretended she did not understand. 
The only thing that still had any effect on her at all was the safety of her still-living 
daughter. The girl was 14 and developing quickly for her age. The woman saw how the 
soldiers leered at her. She commanded her daughter to remain in the filthy, flimsy tent 
they shared at all costs, lest the soldiers’ glances result in something more serious. The 
daughter - 
withdrawing into her own shell of depression, fear and silence - 
always 
agreed. However, the woman knew that the soldiers were getting tired of having their 
fun with her alone. Soon, she would be the one left behind cowering in the tent when 
the kapo came. The woman knew she could not allow that. She had only to look at her 
daughter’s hollow eyes, hear the stifled sobs she tried to hide as they slept on their 
unclean pallet, to know she must protect her child at all costs. 
The pursuing footsteps are just two comers away as the woman catches up to the 
child at last. The child sits looking up at her from the darkened front stoop of a 
condemned tenement building. Her large green eyes stare out from a dirty face, wide 
and dancing in fear. The woman stops her crazed sprint and closes the last distance 
between herself and the frightened child at a cautious walk. The child has nowhere 
else to run, so she huddles into a tight ball, scrawny knees clutched to her frail chest. 
The woman comes closer slowly, her eyes still alight from the chase. The 
soldier’s footsteps are near, but she proceeds with caution. If she scares the child 
away, she willsurely flush the frightened thing right into the soldier’s arms. She lifts 
her hands peacefully and speaks. 
“I will not let them harm you, precious one. They are coming, but they will 
not take you.” 
The woman’s daughter looked at her with undisguised fear. “What do you mean, 
mother?” Her mother had been sitting quietly for hours since the kapo last returned 
her to the tent. The sun had descended and set, yet the older woman had said nothing. 
‘‘I heard the soldiers laughing as I left their barracks. The kapo will come for 
you in the morning.” 
“What do you mean?’ the girl whispers. She is too frightened to speak any louder. 
“DO not be afraid,” the woman says, placing a gentle hand on the girl’s dirty 
face and gazing at her with unspeakable pity. “They will not come before you and 
I have finished.” 
M I N D ’ S  
B Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  
4D 


“Finished with what?” her daughter asked, shaken by the strange look in her 
mother’s eyes. She did not know exactly where the kapo takes her mother each day, 
but she knew why. Over the months, she had seen the toll such treatment had 
takenon the older woman. The life had long since vanished from her mother’s eyes. 
The girl shivered and huddled against the thin fabric of the tent. 
“Don’t be afraid,” her mother said, taking off her dirty, threadbare scarf. “Put this on.” 
The orphan recoils as the strange woman takes the ancient shawl from around 
her shoulders and places it around the girl’s, but she cannot move away. The 
intensity of the woman’s brown eyes pins her. 
“What’s this for? I don’t know you.” 
v
v
 
The woman flinched at that, but she did not back away. “It will be cold,” she 
said. “They’re coming for you. Put this on.” 
Her daughter obeyed meekly, and the woman slipped the scarf around her neck 
and under her dark-brown hair. She wrapped it twice and laid the ends between the 
vague curves of the girl’s budding breasts. As her daughter sat uncomfortably looking 
at her, the woman held the ends lightly between her fingers. 
v
v
 
“You’re scaring me,” the girl says, swallowing and stretching her slender neck 
uncomfortably. She looks past the woman’s shoulder and sees someone come into 
view down the alley. The woman doesn’t seem to notice. 
“They’re coming,” the woman says again. “They don’t want me this time. 
They want you.” 
“Who?” the girl says. “Who are they?” 
“They’re devils,” the woman tells her, her hands closing over the ends of the 
scarf. “They’re through with me, and now they want to take you. They can’t 
terrorize me any more, but they know you’re still afraid of them.” 
At that moment, the girl was more afraid of her mother than any soldier, and 
she leaned back, trying to put distance between the two of them. Her mother only 
bent closer, pulling uncomfortably on the ends of the scarf. 
“They cannot take you.” 
v
v
 
“No one’s coming,” the girl says, gulping audibly under the edge of the 
woman’s shawl. “I don’t know what you’re talking about. No one’s trying to take 
me anywhere.” 
The strange woman with the flying, wild brown hair and the intense brown 
eyes only sighs. 
A N Y  M O T H E R ’ S  CHILD 


“It’s all right, my dearest. I won’t let them.” She looks down, and absently lays 
a hand aside her stomach. 
v
v
 
“Please,” the daughter said, her voice a bit thin. Her green eyes flashed and 
“Be quiet now, sweetheart.” 
“Everything will be fine.” 
The girl’s eyes bulge and her hands shoot to her neck, but her fingers only 
pluck at the fabric there before falling back to rest meekly in her lap. The woman 
hears a vague sound like running steps, but knows it is only her heartbeat 
thundering in her ears. Or perhaps her daughter’s heartbeat. It is so hard to tell. 
The girl sits upright in one last spasm, and her chin jerks up to the hazy night 
sky. The mother wonders briefly if she can see the gates of Heaven as it is rumored 
those trapped in Hell can do. 
“You are free, little one,” she whispers. “They will not find you. They cannot 
take you.” She holds the child to her chest and cradles her, a tear of bitter triumph 
tracing a line down her nose and falling on the girl’s face. 
showed the whites. She gulped even louder. 
v
v
 
v
v
 
The mother covered her daughter’s cold body with the thin sheet they had to 
share at night, and turned to leave her tent. The dog soldiers would probably kill 
her, but she was not afraid. She had not been for months. Maybe the kapo would 
be the first one to find her and deal with her. The best part about being in Hell, she 
knew, was that there were always devils close by if you needed them. 
As she exited the tent and took a deep, cold breath, the woman found herself 
proven right. There before her stood the tall, blond soldier she hadn’t seen in 
months. He looked exactly the same, down to the folds in his long, belted leather 
jacket. The band on his arm blazed a fierce red, drawing her eyes to the bent-edged 
cross in the center. She was almost glad. 
The soldier glanced into the tent at the body of the child and cocked a thin 
yellow eyebrow. His blue eyes sparkled with amazement. 
“A relation of yours?’! he asked. His accent was still horrible, but he seemed 
to have acquired a better grasp of Polish. Or maybe the mother had gained a better 
understanding of the dog soldiers’ barking language. 
“Most interesting.” He came a step closer to the woman and put a hand on her 
shoulder. He backed her easily into the tent and sat her down on the ground beside 
the pallet. The woman only stared past the tall soldier into the night, as if unaware 
of where she was. 
The soldier lifted the woman’s chin. She shivered at the unnatural cold of his 
skin, but moved her head as she was bid. This man was more gentle than the other 
soldiers in the camp, but the woman didn’t notice. He leaned closer to her and 
touched her neck with the tip of his dry tongue. The woman could feel her pulse 
where the man touched her. She was calm. Her daughter was safe. 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


The soldier mumbled something like a blessing, and the woman’s neck 
burned. She closed her eyes. Maybe the man was an angel sent to take her from this 
place to be with her family again. 
v
v
 
Someone shakes the woman roughly from behind, and she opens her eyes. She 
turns to see a familiar man looking at her with anxiety. White clouds huff from his 
mouth as his breath freezes in the chill air. 
“I’ve been trying to find you for hours,” the man says. He runs his hand 
unconsciously through his long black hair and nervously tucks it into the collar of 
his stylish overcoat. His cheeks flush red from exertion and the cold, and he looks 
over his shoulder continuously. “What are you doing in this part of town?” 
“She is safe,” the woman answers dreamily. ‘‘I had to protect her from the 
soldiers. They would have come for her in the morning.” 
The man stares at her in confusion, his eyebrows drawn down into one black 
line. He shakes her shoulders roughly and says, “English. Speak English.” 
The woman blinks and tries to concentrate. Her friend hates it when she slips 
into her native tongue. She glances over her shoulder at the heap sprawled in the 
tenement doorway. ‘‘I was making sure-” 
The man, her friend Alex, the one who takes care of her as she sleeps, looks 
past her at the body. His brown eyes widen and his jaw goes slack. 
“Who is this child?” 
“My daughter,” the woman says, smiling with remembered pride. “She is so 
beautiful and pure. She is safe now.” 
Alex only gulps audibly and shakes his head. “We have to leave before 
someone finds us. Or her.” 
“It doesn’t matter,” the woman says, focusing on Alex for the first time. “She 
is safe. That is all I care about.” 
“Come on,” Alex says, pulling the woman forward into astumbling walk. “We 
may have to leave the city for good this time. Drake is tired of cleaning up after your 
messes. Did I tell you he ordered me to put you to Final Death if you did something 
like this again?” 
“If it is what you want, Alex,” the woman says, still looking back at the body. 
“I haven’t seen Dmitri for a while. It would be nice to talk to him again.” 
Sighing, Alex pulls the woman deeper into the city, toward the nearest 
subway entrance. He could no more kill her than he could kill himself. He would 
sooner face the wrath of all the city’s elders than live with the shame of causing the 
woman any harm. 
Hopefully Drake will be able to cover this up, he thinks. He has done so before in 
worse situations. I doubt he’ll even miss the two of us. 
The woman shambles off after Alex dreamily. Alex will take care of her. He 
always has. And she has taken care of him. She would never let anything happen to 
him. No matter what dangers may come, she will make sure he stays safe with her. 
A N Y  MOTHER’S CHILD 
e 


of the central Circle; having familiar elements introduce or elaborate on new plot 
threads increases the drama and believability of the game. Plus, employing existing 
characters to drive this plot offers direct motivation for the players’ characters to 
get involved, and it makes the players feel like active participants in the develop- 
ment of events. Still, we include profiles for significant participants at the end of 
each installment in case you need to fill any holes. 
A final note: The three parts of Mayday! mix and match with your existing 
game. You could wait until all three parts are released, then play them all together 
as a series, or you could play each part as it comes out in the Journal, separating 
episodes with events from your own chronicle. 
Players, everythingpast this point IS Storyteller material. If youdon’t want to spoil 
the surprise or clue yourself in before you actually play the game, read no further. 
P A R T  O N E :  AMBASSADOR 
S U ~ C ~ E S T I O N S  
Running this installment of Mayday! in your live-action chronicle requires only 
one Storyteller character who does not already exist in your game: Tadashi Nakagawa. 
Other useful characters for this plot include an “acquaintance” - 
be he a diplomatic 
envoy to the Jade Kingdom or simply the first Necropolis guard to spot Nakagawa- 
who introduces Nakagawa to the Circle; a secretive Heretic, should the Circle be able 
to locate the wraith from the “list” they find in the course of action; various members 
of officious Hierarchy bureaucracy; and even a Renegade or two. 
Props for this installment of Mayday! include representations of the box 
Tadashi Nakagawa carries, as well as of the items in the box. 
S C E N E  O N E  
HARD 
INEO 
The Circle is introduced to (or comes across, if there are no existing allies or 
acquaintances to make introductions) Tadashi Nakagawa, a Jade wraith who claims to 
be on an ambassadorial trip to the higher-ups of the Necropolis. Nakagawa appears 
young, andisunfailinglypolite. Hecarriesarelic boxabout thesizeofadepartment-store 
gift box. He does not open the box and does not give any information about its contents. 
After approximately 10 minutes of play (or if the characters become 
inexcusably rude), Nakagawa bows and walks away, leaving the characters alone. 
The acquaintance (should there be one) leaves with Nakagawa. 
The Circle might be polite and friendly; any courtesy or goodwill the 
wraiths show Nakagawa is reciprocated. 
Dependingon the individual characters, they might offer to takeNakagawa 
to the Hierarchy. Nakagawa declines such help. 
If the Circle is belligerent or antagonistic, the Jade wraith simply makes 
graceful excuses and leaves quickly. No matter how rude the Circle wraiths 
become, their attempts to bully or intimidate Nakagawa are unproductive. 
M I N D ’ S  
B Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


S C E N E  
Two 
H A R D  I N E O  
Shortly after leaving the Circle, the Jade wraith drops into a Harrowing as 
one of his Fetters is destroyed suddenly (by an unknown attacker, as revealed in part 
three of this chronicle). The box does not go with him into the Harrowing. 
The box comes into the possession of the Circle, either delivered or found. 
It contains a relic wakizasht (Japanese short sword) with a foreign sigil carved into 
the hilt, a page of jotted notes and a list of names and locations. 
The notes read: “Find optimal points; solidify alliances; look for the 
unblinking.” 
The list of names and locations refers to local Heretics and their Haunts. 
Most of the Heretics on the list are both high-Status and high-secrecy. The 
revelation that the names on the list are those of Heretics should come as 
something of a surprise to the wraiths, especially if the names are those of covert 
Heretics who already exist in your game. 
If a character takes the waktzasht out of the box and keeps it on his person 
for more than 10 minutes of game time, he begins to accumulate Temporary Angst 
due to a strong taint on the weapon. This effect should not be immediately obvious 
to the character, since the taint is subtle and seductive. The character is eventually 
subject to Catharsis. 
C H O I C E S  
The characters may choose to not open the box, taking it directly to the 
authorities instead. 
The Circle might wait until Nakagawa comes back from his Harrowing and 
makes his way back to the Necropolis, and then try to interrogate him. This is 
somewhat problematic, since Nakagawa’s Fetters are far away, and who knows 
what kind of red tape he’ll run into when he appears back in the Jade Empire? 
They open the box. If any of the characters have Heretic status, they may 
make Static Mental Challenges to see if they recognize any of the names. A few 
names might be known to characters with high Hierarchy status. Again, not all of 
the names should be those of recognized Heretics. However, the names are all those 
of Heretics. 
If the Circle decides to investigate the names itself, trying to find out what’s 
going on, the Heretics should be difficult to find. Should the Circle find any of 
them, the Heretics attempt to take the box and might well try to send the 
characters into Oblivion for “knowing too much.” 
Should the group decide to head to the Hierarchy for help, it’s in for a rough 
time. Unless one or more of the wraiths has at least two, if not three, Hierarchy 
Status Traits, the entire group is given the run-around until members explicitly 
refer to the Heretics by name or show someone the list. The Hierarchy is extremely 
suspicious: The functionary who sees the Circle takes the box and interrogates the 
characters intensely. If the characters play their cards right, the Hierarchy lets 
them go z but not without setting a nigh-constant watch on them. Clumsy or 
belligerent roleplaying gets the wraiths in serious trouble: a fight, perhaps, or 
attempts to imprison, enslave or even soulforge them. The trouble should be 
escapable, though, to keep the story moving. 
MAYDAY! 


If the characters hold onto the box and tell no one about it, parties from both 
the Heretics and the Hierarchy come looking for it - 
news of relics, especially 
interesting or powerful ones, travels fast - 
and interrupt anything the Circle might 
attempt. The Hierarchy wants the box from a purely materialistic standpoint; it doesn’t 
know exactly what’s in it yet. The Heretics want the potentially damning list of names 
destroyed and all wimesses eliminated. 
The Circle could go to the Renegades for protection. This course of action 
occurs at the Storyteller’s discretion, but the Renegades may be the characters’ best 
hope for physical protection and allies. 
This installment of the story should effectively end with the Circle’s decision 
about what to do with the information and the resulting brouhaha. These events 
can take all evening to play, given good roleplaying and strong characters. 
So ends Part I of Mayday! Look for Part 11: Deployment in the next issue of the 
Journal. The following is a “skin and bones” cheat-sheet of suggested Traits and a 
background sketch for Tadashi Nakagawa. 
THE 
AMBASSADOR 
T H E  SKIN 
Tadashi Nakagawa either meets or is introduced to the Circle early in this 
installment of Mayday!, and his involvement in the wraiths’ afterlives has an effect 
onatlofStygia. Butwho ishe? Attheriskofgivingaway toomuch tooearly,Nakagawa 
is a Jade wraith on a unique and dangerous mission. He has been entrusted with a 
specific responsibility, and he does not stop or be deterred by normal means. 
In life, Nakagawa was little more than what we in the 20th century would call 
a “number-cruncher” or a “bean-counter,” but he always took his work seriously 
(perhaps even a bit too seriously). In death, he is a pawn of a higher power, but his 
mission is of the utmost importance to him. Nothing sways him from his course; 
not even the Harrowing he undergoes when one of his Fetters is destroyed. 
T H E  BONES 
p E R s o N A L  INFO R M A T I  o N 
Name: Tadashi Nakagawa 
Life: Minor Functionary 
Death: Heart Disease 
Nature: Bureaucrat 
Demeanor: Architect 
Regret: Never expressed love to his wife and son 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


A R C A N O I  
Intimation (all innates): The Gleaming, Deep Desiring, The Craving 
Moliate (all innates): Sculpt, Martialry 
Outrage (all innates): Wraithgrasp 
Usury (all innates): Transfer, Charitable Trust, Exchange Rate 
Protect the Empire (Duty) 
Advise Wife and Extended Family (Love) 
Keep Records of Court History (Duty) 
Gain Power (Greed) 
[Note: One Fetter, the teacup, is destroyed during the course of the game.] 
Brush with which he wrote at work 
Ancestor shrine in his home 
Teacup given by his great-grandfather 
Jade Court Status 2 
Living Family 1 
Wraith Family 2 
The Perfectionist 
PASSIONS 
EETTFRS 
BACKC~ROUNDS 
NAKAC~AWA’S p ’0 (SHADOW) 
DARK PASSIONS 
Destroy Family (Hate) 
Undermine Empire (Spite) 
THORNS 
Spectre Prestige 
Shadow Trait: Brutal 


ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD 
QUFSTIONS 
The constant evolution of Mind’s Eye Theatre bnngs new 
anddifferentquestions to thegame. Thismonth, we tacklequestions 
and comments about Laws of Elysium and the elder game, as well 
as a couple ofgeneral Trait questions. 
Send your Mind’s Eye Theatre questions to: 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theati-eloumal, Frequently AskedQuesaons 
735 Park North Blvd. 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
carlawhite-wolf. com 
Q In JAWS 
of Elysium, Master-Level Dis- 
ciplinesare available to eighth or lower generation 
characters. In the tabletop game, vampires get 
the really powerful Disciplines only if they’re 
seventh generation or lower. What gives? 
A: Some troupes may wish to experiment 
with the new Master-Level Disciplines without 
adding elder powerhouses to the game - 
for 
them, eighth- (or even ninth-) generation Kin- 
dred are good candidates for these powers. 
However, if a large game hosts a few true elders 
(seventh or lower generation), it’s generally a 
good idea to keep the Master Disciplines in the 
hands of those puissant characters. These pow- 
ers are supposed to be rare and forbidding, after 
all! The key is to make sure that the Disciplines 
are available if you want to use them, without 
making them commonly available to everyone. 
Q. The Thaumaturgy Path of Conjuring says that the vampire can’t summon 
anything larger or heavier than himself, including a LAW rocket, but LAW rockets 
aren’t that big. Also, the Permanency power says that Conjured items must be returned 
physically to their place of origin, when those items are really just created from nothing. 
A: The note about LAW rockets is pertinent to game balance. A conjurer can 
generate a stake, a sword or a vial of blood, but some things should be too difficult to 
make (like high explosives or nuclear weapons). A good rule of thumb is to require the 
conjurer to have enough Abilities to actually build the item in question. Thus, the 
thaumaturge can’t conjure a pistol without a few levels of Repair and Firearms; he needs 
a lot of Demolitions and Science to make explosives. Of course, simple items (like 
wooden stakes, metal bars and rocks) can be conjured without any special Abilities. 


Permanently conjured items are fully real and solid. The confusion here comes 
from the fact that mortal Conjuring (see Laws of the Hunt) simply moves objects 
without creating things. An object moved with mortal Conjuring must be taken 
back to its place of origin if the conjurer intends to return it. Conversely, an object 
created with the Thaumaturgy Path of Conjuring has no “place of origin” since it 
was created from nothing. 
Q: How come the new Discipline level for Chimerstry looks suspiciously 
like one of the old ones in Laws of the Night? 
A: Because the minor difference is in motion. Illusions created with Fata 
Morgana (second Basic Chimerstry) cannot move; they are wholly static, though 
they can affect all of the senses. Illusions made with higher levels ofchimerstry can 
appear to move and interact with their surroundings. 
Q: How come modem gargoyles can’t fly while Dark Ages ones can? 
A: Did we leave that line out? Silly us. Modem gargoyles do have wings, and 
they can fly. The gargoyle’s flight speed depends on his level of the Visceratika 
Discipline; each level of the Discipline allows the gargoyle to fly 5 mph. 
Q: Can an Assamite with high levels of Occult Influence use that capacity 
to leam other sects’ rituals to get Thaumaturgy rituals using his Quietus 
Discipline? 
A: What a strange and convoluted path. No, Quietus is not sufficient to learn 
rituals aside from the special Assamite ones. Thaumaturgy does not allow someone 
to leam Assamite rituals without Quietus, for that matter. 
Q: Are Bladed Hands (from the ritual of the same name) visible? 
A: No. When you invoke Bladed Hands, you become capable of cutting 
through things with your hands, but your limbs do not appear to change at all. 
Don’t pick your nose. 
Q: So what’s the real skinny on Spirit Thaumaturgy? According to some sources, 
it works on wraiths. According to others, it’s Umbral spirits. Which one is it? 
A: Spirit Thaumaturgy is designed to contact and control Umbral spirits. Of 
course, only tainted spirits would ever deal willingly with a vampire. For the sake of 
expanding possibilities, Storytellers may allow Spirit Thaumaturgy to function against 
wraiths, but in general that’s the purview of the Necromancy Discipline. 
Q: How come there’s no Master-Level Thaumaturgy in Laws of Elysium? 
A: Well, technically, there isnoMasterLeve1 in the DisciplineofThaumaturgy. 
“What, then-” 
you may ask, “-is 
the meaning of the article on page 41 ?” In that 
article, we use the term Master-Level more as a representative stroke than as a 
technical term. A master thaumaturge (like a pontifex, for instance) is more likely 
to have branched out into several different Thaumaturgical paths (or even created 
his own) rather than perfected one to a higher level. However, there are some 
rituals that are available to only the most trusted, the most wise and the most 
respected scholars of the clan, and those scholars can be considered thaumaturges 
of the Master Level. 


Q: OK, so if there are Lasombra antitribu, how come there are no Tzimisce 
untitribu in Laws of Elysium, just Old Clan Tzimisce? 
A: Because there’s maybe something like one Tzimisce in the Camarilla. 
Tzimisce antitribu are about as common as Salubri, and as such their differences 
from the main clan can’t be covered by generalities - 
they are unique and 
extremely bizarre individuals. 
Q: Why didn’t the Ogham Discipline from The Long Night get an extra 
level in Laws of Elysium? 
A: Because Ogham is already a dying Discipline in 1198, and its powers are 
limited. If you are absolutely fired up to have an additional level (perhaps for 
balance purposes), try this: 
I N S C R I B E  T H E  C U R S E  ( S E C O N D  I N T E R M E D I A T E )  
The Lhiannan traces runic glyphs of a foe’s true name on her body, thus gaining 
power over that enemy. You must know your foe’s true name, and you must expend 
two Blood Traits to trace the unusual runes. The runes must be visible to the enemy 
in order to function, and you must make a Mental Challenge when you first engage 
your opponent. The effects of the runes last until the runes are removed or until you 
suffer two health levels of damage (thus obscuring them). 
You may choose one of four effects for the runes: affecting the body renders the 
victim impotent and unable to use Blood Traits; the mind causes the foe to suffer from 
the Negative Traits: Oblivious x2; the voice makes the target mute; and affecting the 
soul makes the opponent lose all ties in tests against frenzy. You may use only one rune 
at a time, so you can choose only one effect and impose it against one person. 
(Note: This power causes Ogham to have more Intermediate levels than Basic 
levels. Such is the curse of trying to learn a dying Discipline - 
it’s hard!) 
Q: What are the Attribute Trait maximums for changelings and wraiths in 
The Shining Host and Oblivion? 
A: In both cases, a character’s effective age comes into play. Obviously, most 
wraiths and changelings won’t beat up on elder vampires, so their Traits are not always 
as high.. . but an old and experienced character always has other tricks. 
For changelings, the character’s seeming determines Trait maximums. 
Childlings are limited to 10 Traits in each category except Physical, for which they 
can have no more than six Traits. Wilders can have up to 12 Traits in each 
category, and grumps may have up to 14 Traits in each category. A childling redcap 
won’t bite any vampires in half, but watch out for elder trolls. 
Wraiths are products of self-image. A wraith‘s personal characteristics are a 
reflection of the individual’s internalized self-perceptions. As a result, old wraiths 
often surpass the limits of their meat-bodies, taking themselves to new levels of 
ability. Enfants (newly dead wraiths) are limited to 10 (just dead) or 11 (dead for 
a few years) Traits in each category. Lemures (fairly old wraiths, maybe a few 
decades in age) can have up to 12 or 13 Traits, while Gaunts (centuries-old 
wraiths) can have 14 or sometimes even more Traits. Players are unlikely to play 
wraiths older than young Lemures, though. A fair compromise is to allow a wraith 
character to start with a limit of 10 Traits, but to improve to 11 and 12 after six 
months and one year of play, respectively. 


_I_ 
_I 
PLAY 
CONCENTRATE ON TH 
ENCHAN 1 MEN I AND Atih-OLD MYSTERY - 
THE WOR 
N G  nfE DREAMING. 
VG I . .  RIE j 
ND REVEIATIO 
i THAT TELL OF 
I USED AS A AC 
W
E
 
AND h N (  
F GLAMOUR 
- 
