F 
F 


13DN 1-303U4- lU4-L 
WW5408 $7.95 u.s. 
i 
5 0 7 9 5  


BECAUSE THE MIND’S EYE NEVER BLINKS 


CREDITS 
Authors: Steve Balfour, Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Cynthia Summers, 
David Tancredi, Peter Woodworth 
Developer: Carl Bowen 
Editor: Ed Spymoun 
Art Director: Aaron Voss 
Photographer: Laura Robles 
I 
Front and Back Cover Design: Pauline Benney 
1 Layout and Typesetting: Pauline Benney 
WHAT YOU’VE MISSED 
Issue #5 
The first part of MET’S look at Wraith: The Great War. 
A look at the Bunyip for Laws of the Wyld West. 
The einherjar of the Dark Ages. 
Issue #6 
The second part of MET’S look at Wraith: The Great War 
Werewolves in the Dark Ages 
Yulan-Jin and Dhampyrs 
Issue #7 
A guide to acting in live-action play 
Dharmas heretical to all self-respecting Kuei-jin 
A look at the hideous fomori 
Motivation to torch me in effigy 
0 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re 
‘lVD’ 
served. Reproduction without the written permis- 
sion of the pubkher is scprrssly forbidden, except 
of reviews, and for blank charac- 
ter sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only White Wolf, Vampk, V a m p i ~  
the Mas- 
C A M [  S T U D I O  
querade, Vamw the Dark Ages, Mag the Asen- 
sion, World of Darkness and Ahrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Pub 
lishing, Inc All rights m e d .  W~olftheApocalypse,WraiththeOblivioQlange 
ling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcer- 
ers Crusade, wraith the Great War, Trinity Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal. Issue 8 and 
Changing B& 
Book 1, Vampire Storytellem Guide and Masquerade are trade 
marksof White WolfPublis~g,Inc.Allnghtsreserved.Au~~em,~es,places 
and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages 
is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All 
mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment 
purposes only This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised. 
735 PARK 
SUITE 128 
tLARKSTOW, 
GA 30021 for the 
USA 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-451-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES 
http: / /www.whitewolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 


WE co 
TABLE 
O P  CONTENTS 
I 
IIE. 
by Yours Truly 
T H E  
CURRENT 
THINKINC~ 
So LONC~, 
EAREWELL, BYE-BYE 
by Cynthia Summers 
DEADC~UY 
SPEAKS 
by Richard E. Dansky 
L A R ~ E  
~ A M E S A N D  LONC~ 
CHRONICLES 
? 
H o w  DOES 
I T  EEEL. 
by Steve Balfour 
by Peter Woodworth 
THERE 
ARE MONSTERS 
€VERYWHERE 
by Peter Woodworth 
CREATINC~ 
ANTAC~ONISTS 
THAT 
MATTER 
by David Tancredi 
€ V E N T  HORIZON 
WHAT I HAVE LEARNED 
by Yours Truly 


WELCOME! 
f O R  THOSEOE 
YOU JUST TUNING 
IN... 
Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the eighth issue of the Mind’s Eye 
Theatre Journal! For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take 
a second to acquaint you with just what you’ve got here. 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gap in your White 
WoIfLARPenvironmen~ Weofferdesfornewcharactertypes,origmlstorylinestowork 
into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games under control and running smoothly 
and rules updates you won’t find in any other Mind’s Eye release. Plus, you’ll find answm 
tothequestionsthathaveplaguedyou,origmalWorldofDarknessfictionandcolumnsf 
people who’ve been W i n g  or workmg here at White Wolf (or both) for years. 
At least, that’s been the pattern thus far. Now, however, I’m sad to say that this 
very issue is the last one that will be available for the foreseeable future. As we ramp 
up and fine-tune our fronthe Mind’s Eye Theatre releases, the Journal has simply 
become less and less necessary. Every resource that goes into making the Journal what 
itis isaresourcethatcouldjustaseasilygointoaLawsof ... booktomakeit thatmuch 
better. That being the case, it ftankly just doesn’t make much sense to continue to 
divideourresourcesaswehavebeen.Althoughmanyofuswillbesadtoseethe 
Journal 
go, the Mind’s Eye Theatre line will emerge stronger for the change. Its books will get 
bigger, its rules will get sharper, and it will become more inclusive in the long run. 
But let’s forget about that for a moment and take a look at what’s actually in 
this issue. There’s no sense drawing the curtain before the end of the first page.. .. 
In this issue of the Journal, we take a look into the future of MET. Richard 
Dansky gives advice on what to do when your game has run its course. Cynthia 
Summers talks about the future of the game line she develops so tirelessly and about 
the genre itself. Steve Balfour, the president of the Camarilla fan club, foreshadows 
a future MET release with an article on some of the concern surrounding chronicles 
that are larger than the average chronicle. Newcomer David Tancredi also makes 
a good showing with an article on creating convincing antagonists, and Peter 
Woodworth gives tips on personalizing the supernatural World of Darkness experi- 
ence. And, asalways, you’llfindalittle Worldofhrknessfictionandanevent listing 
that’s as accurate as it can be, considering the circumstances. 
And even though the Journal is going away, you can still contribute to the 
future of MET. Send letters on your opinions about the state of live-action 
roleplaying today. Send questions about the features and rules you’ve seen here, 
as well as notes about the broken rules you come across in different MET 
publications. Send horror stories about games gone wrong and how your players’ 
characters fixed them. Check out the Forum section of our web site and post your 
observations there. We’re always interested in the opinions and desires of our 
readers, so don’t stop letting us know what you want to see. 
After all, where would we be without you? 
Carl Bowen 
carlawhite-wolf.com 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 USA 


THF CURRFNT THINKINCj 
When something you’ve worked on for a long time has to go away for 
reasons that are beyond your control, it’s tempting to point fingers and lay 
blame. When I heard that the Journal was being cancelled, I felt that 
temptation. Instead of going onapetulant useless rampage, though, I decided 
to look back at how the Journal had been received thus far throughout its run. 
I paged through old emails and posts I had saved from our old online forum 
- 
you know, the one that worked - 
and I found these collected comments. 
The Journal I think is a great idea, though I have to say I’ve been a bit 
disappointed in the way it’s turned out. Some of the information in the Journals 
is very useful, while some of it I can’t help but feel is just filler. Some of the things 
would be useful, but there just isn’t enough information. 
For example, a useful bit that came out of the Journals were the listings of 
what levels ofLore provided what information (and what misconceptions!). On 
the other hand, we don’t need a section detailing Asian wraiths. The section on 
Bastet would have been useful if it had included information on more tribes, or 
a more complete listing of the Pumonca powers even. 
I would like to see something giving definitive information on Ghouls. Liber des 
Goulesisawasteofpaper and thenewer booksare both incomplete andalsocontradictory 
at points. Translations of more Werewolf material to MET would also be very useful. 
Overall, the Journal is a great idea that has had mediocre follow-through. It would 
be a terrific forum to have official FAQs published and release MET information that 
doesn’tfit into thestandardbooks. It needs lessfictionandfldandmore solidmaterial. 
-Tanuki 
(tanuki st@hotmail.com) 
I must say that, over all, the entire concept and run of the Mind’s Eye Theatre 
Journal has been a good one. There have only beena few small problems that I have 
personally had with the Journals. Well, one really. One very big problem that 
continually pisses me off everytime I see that copy of the Journal. It’s about the 
Lores ... Now, many of you out there might be happy that White Wolffinally came 
out and downright said what each level of each of the most predominant Lores 
does. But let me tell you something about those levels. They suck. If I spend more 
than fourteen seconds in an actual LARP game with one of those creature types, 
chances are I will be able to learn more about said creature type than someone with 
a Kindred Lore of 40. How do I know it’s 14 seconds? I timed it. 
In short, the system screws anyone who wants to come into agame knowing 
more than a first-night Embrace/Changed/Dead/Faerie-stuffed/whatever be- 
cause spending three minutes with characters of that type will give you more info 
than any level of the “Lores” will. Maybe the Lores should be called “Lies and 
Useless Info.” It’s much more accurate, and I could stop putting quotes around 
it because that name would be far more fitting. 
Yeah.. . 
-Unagodd 
(frederick@csus.edu) 


I’m very fond of the concept of a magazine as support for a game. Games 
Workshop does the same, TSR does (did ?? i don’t fallow them anymore) the 
same. when issue 1 and 2 came out, i was very enthousiastic, but i’m somewhat 
dissapointed by the amount of useful1 info i find in them. half of the time, there 
is not a single item of use in them to me. 
the things i’m after is metaplot and rules( clarification). a magazine gives the 
possibility to influence the WOD, a bit like the updates on the WOD in books 
like TOTB & NOP. a magazine is a perfect tool to bring the changes on a regular 
timed base. example : issue 10 talks about the changes in California, issue 11 
about the takeover by the cama from ny, issue 12 about ... you get the picture. 
also, things like (much more) FAQ’s are something that i would like to see 
in the magazine. 
I suppose all in all these are good publications, but they don’t offer what 
i’m looking for. 
-Xavier 
Muylaert (Muvlaert@mail.com) 
For me, I enjoy the MET Journal. The additional rules for minor bloodlines and 
updates to the METgameworld (like Hunters, recent events in Wraith matters, etc.) 
are a welcome bonus. Articles detailing history and/or exposing metaplot informa- 
tion are wonderful as well, because not all LARPers follow the tabletop game. 
Much to White Wolfs chagrin, I suspect! 
I would like to see more FAQ’s, official updates and perhaps optional rules. 
The MET Journal is the perfect place to publish Oblivion updates to 3rd Edition 
Vampire MET core rules, additional character types, and even direction on 
costuming or helpful Storytelling guidelines. Granted, some rules will probably 
need to be saved for a future book, but hints and tips - 
like the recent Mage 
article - 
go far to help fill in those gaps until the official versions are printed. 
What I do not like to see published in the pages of the MET Journal are 
“ultra kewl powerz” that only serve to have players BEG for them, at least those 
powers that are not tempered in some fashion. I am also not a fan of fiction 
within the pages. I know, I know, just because it’s not my cup of tea I shouldn’t 
be too harsh to judge. But, the beauty of toleplaying is that WE get to create the 
stories. I don’t want to read about your ideas, I want to make my own. 
“But James, some people aren’t that creative and they need some ideas!” Absolutely, 
but there is plenty of theme, flavor and fiction within the rulebooks to get us started, 
generally found at the begmning of a rulebook and often between the chapters. 
While the World of Darkness isn’t about rules and systems but about 
Storytelling, this is not the World of Darkness Journal. This is a journal 
dedicated to one specific set of rules and one specific line of rulebooks. If I want 
fiction set in the World of Darkness, I’ll go pick up any number of paperbacks 
published by The Wolf. I don’t buy rulebooks or supplemental material for the 
gripping fiction. I don’t believe many people do. 
If you must, use the fiction to illustrate an MET scene. Don’t simply provide a 
gripping tale that only exists to entertain. Let the Storytellers do that for their players. 
That’s why we buy the rulebooks. 
Additionally, the MET Journal could be the best place to publish errata that 
goes beyond mere FAQ level. Official, authorized, “we screwed up, here’s what 


Page XX should have said” errata. No one likes admitting mistakes but we all 
make them: customer, author and publisher alike. Unfortunately for the authors 
and publishers, the customer is traditionally right. Make us happy and give us the 
clarifications and updates we seek in a timely fashion. 
-James A. Hussiere (drjamez@maine.rr.com) 
I like the MET Journal for a number of reasons, some of which I’ll describe 
below. However, I must clarify a point before I list my pros/cons. 
I am a mature role-player who prefers the richness of the World of Darkness 
setting and the Mind’s Eye Theater rule system. 
I do not consider myself a “Mindless Fanboy”. I do not purchase a periodical 
“just because it’s cool!” I do not purchase every single White Wolf product that 
comes along, “A Vampire cigerette lighter?No thanks, I don’t smoke.” I do not 
preach about my characters, past and present, to unsuspecting game developers. 
I do consider myself an “MET Evangelist” and I try to set a good example 
of our hobby. I do purchase a product when its content is good and the MET 
Journal gives me the content that I want by providing MET setting and rules 
clarifications that enrich my chronicle. 
WhatdoIlikeabuttheMETJournal?HerearemytopthreeDesertIslandanswers. 
1. The MET Journal has a sense of humor. Unlike other trade publications 
that shall go nameless, the MET Journal is grounded enough to poke fun at 
themselves and the product they create. When was the last time a certain 
company of upper-west coast of magic-users actually warned their players about 
the risks of overindulgence in their product. Bye Rich, 1’11 miss the wit! 
2. The MET Journal is not a sales engine, but is an advertisement free 
publication focused on the Mind’s Eye rule system. I don’t have to wade through 
articles, ads or reviews of other systems that I’m not interested in. I like my 
content to be direct and I get that with the Journal. 
3. The MET Journal is inexpensive. Heck, I’ve paid more for graphic novels 
or user guides that have been far less informative or enjoyable. 
What would I like to see improved in the MET Journal? 
1. I would like to see the MET Journal published on a more timely basis, perhaps 
every two months, instead of quarterly. Given the large volume of new material 
being published by White Wolf, we - the MET Storytellers, Players and retailers - 
need a more reliable schedule for purchasing and stocking your fine periodical. 
2. I would like to see the most current MET rules clarifications (especially 
the increasing cross-over questions) addressed and published in a timely fashion. 
Instead of having to wait and then buy a new MET Rules book to see the current 
FAQ, I would like to find it, indexed and accurate, in the MET Journal. It would 
save me and my players from having to search through the various MET rules 
books to find the approprate data, and time saved means more time to play! 
3. I would like to see more articles focused on improving our Live Action 
hobby. While you already have a number of articles formatted for the Journal, 
I would like to see a few more columns on such topics as, chronicle creation, 
storytelling techniques and pitfalls, legal aspects such as waivers and insurance, 
and how to handle the press without digging your own roasting pit. 
Xybertec (Cybertec@cyberdude.com) 


Mind's Eye Theater Journal is a great idea, but there are a few problems that 
I have seen with the Journal itself. 
1. Too Expensive. I can buy a book for the price of two journals. If there is 
any way to write this and make it cheaper, or if there is anyway you can make 
subscriptions for the year, that would be the best thing. 
2. Too Much. There is too much on the things that are not played much and 
not enough on the things that are. How about crossover rules for Garou to the 
new 3rd ed. We have a mixed venue vampkgarou game and it would be nice to 
figure out how to even the balances. 
3. FAQ's. Would be nice. (It would be nice to know if the designers 
intended for speed of thought and speed beyond thought to be used in the same 
sequence, and if it was, it would be nice to question them as to why they believe 
Garou should be able to be able to take up to 60 steps a turn for 8 hours.) Things 
like that question plague every Larp. 
4. Storylines ... Nuff Said ... some MET SL's for beginning ST's 
5. TOO MUCHCHANGELING ANDWRAITH..,Iknow that Changeling 
and Wraith need a boost in the MET world, but most people play Vampire or 
Werewolf. I would like to see a little more about them in the future. All we've seen 
on Vampires are (True Black Handkind of useful} Stuff on Camarilla and OWBN 
{Semi Useful} Types of players {Twice and not useful except for a laugh} Lores 
{Usefull but I would like an expanded section of Lores so we don't get into fights, also 
what does one start out with. I.E. does a Garou have werewolf 5 and Garou 2?} 
Other than that, I've liked the editorials, and gotten a good laugh from some of 
the articles. Also, it's great that you take suggestions from people. It makes lie easier. 
-Nurain 
(nurain@hotmail.com) 


SO LON%, EARFWFLL, 
BY€-BY€ 
by Cynthia Summers, Mind’s Eye Theatre developer 
Well, for starters, Mind’s Eye Theatre isn’t going anywhere, although the 
Journal is falling by the wayside. Don’t all jump for joy at once.. .. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre still has places to go, things to do and people to meet. 
The upcoming Changing Breeds Book 1 and Vampire Storytellers Guide will 
continue to blaze new trails for LARPers of all stripes. Looking to the future, I 
definitely want the game line’s focus to be on telling stories and giving folks the 
best tools with which to do so. 
Typically, last issues are considered a place to air prophecies, predictions 
and similar vaporware. Based on what I’ve been seeing in the course of my job, 
I’ll venture to put on my foresight cap and play at prophet. I think the live-action 
genre is in for some interesting times ahead. This hobby has been around for at 
least a decade, if not a little longer. The LARPing world of today is not the same 
as it was when Masquerade first came out. Some of the conventions of modern 
LARPing will change, and all of them will have to face up to the times. Exactly 
how audiences’ tastes will change as days go by is up to social scientists (and our 
marketing department) to figure out, but you can be sure that MET books will 
adapt to fit them. 
The folks who’ve been engaging in live-action roleplaying for several years 
now, like myself, are admittedly getting a bit long in the tooth. The folks who 
saw Masquerade come into being are getting married, having kids and experi- 
encing various other grown-up rites of passage. But now that we’re doing all this 
growing up, will we need to give up “playing pretend”? Will new games give rise 
to “e1ders”mourningfor the good old days and wondering what’s the matter with 
kids today, while the “kids” wonder when those “fogies0 are going to retire to the 
old LARPers’ home? Those OG’s (original garners) who have continued to press 
on often have more collective roleplaying experience under their belts than 
their new (and younger) Storytellers do. 
This potential conflict could go several ways. It could result in clashes of age 
where those who reach a certain age find themselves increasingly unwelcome or 
where a youth must spend time in entry-level positions (both in and out of 
character) for a long time. On the other hand, old chronicles might enjoy a 
resurgence in popularity and vitality as fresh new players infuse the scene with 
their enthusiasm. A coterie of experienced power-players might rise to promi- 
nence in an aging game and alienate the young, inexperienced players who 
would otherwise keep the game alive. Conversely, a group of old hands who are 
the Storyteller’s most mature and competent players might take mentor roles 
and help integrate bright-eyed young LARPers into the game in such a way that 
the game goes on and continues to strive. 
Prediction: They’re not quite the Geritolset, but olderplayers are becomingafact 
of life. We’re only beginning to see the impact they’ll have on the hobby, and it will be 
an important factor in its future. 


Those coming in fresh to the games are entering with less knowledge of the 
material under their belts. They’re less likely to have encountered the World of 
Darkness in a tabletop format than to have been recruited via a friend’s 
recommendation, word of mouth or just happening upon a Laws of ... book in 
a local store. This concern has already been addressed tentatively with the 
changes to the books that give new Mind’s Eye readers a glimpse of the setting. 
New rulebooks now start with ambient fiction and setting material that puts the 
rules material in some kind of context. 
The newer generations of gamers are also coming in with wildly different 
background materials. We came to the games with impressions of The Crow and 
Interview with a Vampire, and we wanted to play what we saw. Our younger 
siblings, however, are more familiar with Buffy and The Matrix. This difference 
isn’t necessarily destructive to the hobby, but it will become a factor as groups 
try to create stories that pander to both sets of creative expectation. 
Prediction: Stormy waters lie ahead for those who are plotting the courses of 
chronicles. Storytelkrs will have to find a happy medium between brooding anti-hero 
stones and post-industrial epic taks of success against seemingly insurmountable odds. 
Speaking of youth, what about those kids that the older players now have. 
Are we looking at the real next generation of LARPers? Is LARPing going to be 
one more activity to juggle in between Little League games and ballet lessons? 
While much of the new gamers coming into the hobby are in their late teens and 
early 20s (as many of us were when we started), a growing group of youngbloods 
is made up of elementary-school age kids who want to know what Mom and Dad 
are doing when they head out for the night dressed up in laced shirts or green 
velvet. Certainly the enthusiasm surrounding the Harry Potter books suggests 
that a wealth of youngsters are thirsty for fantasy and they just need the 
opportunity to take the next step. Simply ignoring this group or rebuffing its 
interest may be one of the more ill-considered moves the LARP community 
could make. 
Prediction: Groups may need to reconsider their approach to young peopk 
beyond a blanket policy of non-admission. 
And that’s all that my psychic powers can endure for now. Now we sit back 
and see what the future brings. 
Closing out also means that you give out thanks to everyone who spent time 
working on the thing. So -thanks to Carl for putting this puppy together from 
a few harebrained ideas and turning out a silk purse from the sow’s ear. Thanks 
to the remarkable crop of writers who gave us so much to play with and think 
about, taking roleplaying beyond a few sheets of paper and playing “let’s 
pretend” down in the basement. And of course, thanks to you, the loyal readers, 
who’ve followed us thus far. We wouldn’t be here at all without you. 
Take care, have fun, and we’ll see you around Elysium. 


DFADGUY SPFAKS 
CHANC~ES, 
€ N D I N C ~ S ,  B F C ~ I N N I N ~ S  
A N D  
OTHER 
’ I N C ~ S  THAT 
SEEM PROEOUND 
by Richard Dansky 
Let me give one final round of praise to Richard for 
everything he’s done oyer the years. Although he’s no 
longer with us -the 
company, that is, not the living- 
his presence has had a resounding influence on this game 
line and this hobby. In fact, I wouldn’t even have a job 
here if it wasn’t for Richard. When you see this man, shake 
his hand, thank him for all the hard work, and kt him know 
that the contributions he’s made will not be forgotten. 
Years and years ago, back when vinyl was the best form of music you could get (as 
opposed to a statement about your retro chic muso cred like it is now), the Alan Parsons 
Project recorded a song called “Where Do We Go From Here?” For those of you who 
don’t know who the Alan Parsons Project was, they’re the band best known for that 
thunderous instrumental that gets played before most sporting events these days. For 
those of you who do know about APP and are currently sneering because let’s face it, 
Vulture Culture was probably not one of the cooler albums ever recorded, relax. There’s 
always someone out there who thinks your taste in music sucks. And for those few of 
you who actually own Alan Parsons Project CDs - 
or even albums - 
well, we’re 
getting old, guys. Still, it could be worse: I could be leading off the column by discussing 
what LARP plot lines can be extracted from Emerson, Lake and Palmer’s Tarkus album. 
Count your blessings, folks. 
But, as usual, I digress. My point, or at least my moderately blunt conversational 
object, is that it’s always time to think about what comes next. What do you do when 
your game crashes and burns, or it gets taken over by no-talent munchkins? What 
happens if your favorite game system (*cough* Wraith *cough*) gets canceled. In 
short, what do you do if the status quo of your gaming universe, Deo prohibe, changes? 
Mind you, this notion isn’t one that the gaming industry-or 
the gaming audience 
- 
necessarily takes to heart with a whole lot of love. The phenomenon that I call 
“gaming crystallization” that takes place an awful lot, and it hits players, writers and 
developers with equal frequency. In so many words, gaming crystallization is the notion 
that when someone finds gaming for the first time, he seizes on the first good game he 
plays as the Platonic ideal of roleplaying. Nothing else can ever measure up to that first 
sublime experience, and any changes to the game line are a betrayal of that one, shining, 
magical moment when the dice first hit the table. 
Unfortunately, everyone crystallizes at different times and with different systems. 
That’s why you get edition wars on UseNet and mailing lists, for one thing. It’s also why 
some folks get verrrrry nervous or dismissive about games and styles of play that are 
different from the ones they’re used to. Not everyone crystallizes thus, certainly - 
not 
by a long shot - 
but it does happen, and it’s something to watch out for. After all, if 


you decide that Street Fighter is the ultimate RPG, the fact that they’re not making 
Street Fighter any more probably puts a crimp in your enjoyment of the hobby. 
You know what? That’s just plain silly. What we’re doing is - 
and I’m only going 
to say this once -a hobby. It is intended for enjoyment. Every other aspect of it -from 
the educational, a la the bulk of the content in Charnel Houses of Europe, to the 
humorous internal swipes you’ll find in Pentex - 
is secondary. It’s a game. You’re 
supposed to have fun with it. You’re supposed to get together with people whose 
company you enjoy to do things you enjoy and, with any luck, acquire stories that will 
bore the living hell out of everyone you know upon their umpteenth recitation. 
That being said, your primary responsibility to yourself is to allow yourself to enjoy 
the gaming that you do. If you’re clinging to something that’s gone and not coming back 
- 
be it a since-replaced edition or a since-canceled product line - 
you’re doing 
yourself a disservice. Now, that’s not to say that just because a company kills a game, 
it’s time to stop playing that game. After all, I still haul out Ye Olde Wraithe Bookes 
on occasion, and I enjoy doing so. I just don’t look out at my players from across the 
Buried Secrets screen, sniff in best Etonian fashion and announce that no gaming 
experience henceforth can possibly compare. You love what you love, but you shouldn’t 
allow it to keep you from enjoying something new. 
So what does that pithy bit of wisdom mean for you? And no, this doesn’t mean 
that MET is going to be canceled. MET is going to grow and thrive for agood long time, 
and that’s great. It’s also going to change as things go along -hopefully there won’t 
be another Laws of the Night, but there might be - 
and you’ll have the choice of how 
you’re going to take it. In my opinion, at least, the best thing you can do is recognize 
that change is coming and inevitable, and do your level best to make sure that the 
change is for the better. So write cards and letters with feedback and critique. (And 
make them polite ones, damn it. Nothing turns someone off toyour feedback faster than 
saying, “You screwed up, but I, in my infinite armchair wisdom, know how to fix 
everything.”) Make sure you mention what you like in your letters as well. Positive 
feedback helps immensely, believe it or not. 
But, to quote Monty Python, that’s as may be: It’s still a frog. Some of you folks are 
going to crystallize in your gaming with MET as it stands, and there’s nothing wrong 
with that. If it works for you, it works. It’s that simple. Nobody’s saying that you always 
have to jump on the newest, hottest thing to come along just because it’s new and it 
seems to be all the rage. Just because it’s new and hot doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s 
any damn good, or that it’s something you’ll enjoy as much as what you’re doing now. 
I keep my old Villains and Vigilantes books easily accessible for a reason, and it’s not 
just so I can haul out “Organized Crimes” for purposes of taunting my erstwhile 
manager, Ken Cliffe. It’s because I have fun with the game, even despite the fact that 
the system is simplistic and the book‘s falling apart. Ten years from now, some of you 
are liable to be saying the same thing about your shabby, dog-eared copies of Laws of 
the Night. And last time I checked, that’s what this whole thing is about. 
(I’m also fully cognizant of the fact that some of you are going to be systematically 
burning every picture you can find of yourself in character costume and bemoaning the 
time you wasted on such a childish hobby, but such is life. Remember what happened 
to Susan at the end of the Chronicles ofNarnia. Different folks take different roads, and 
they’re perfectly happy with them.) 
But that’s the big picture, or at least one panel of it. (One suspects that the really, 
really big picture looks a bit like Rodin’s Gates of Hell, complete with three scary, 


._- 
I 
- 
come more personal moments when aiki’g “What now?” is entirely appropriate. Take, 
for example, the horrifying, soul-shattering moment when you suddenly realize that.. . 
. ..you’re bored to freakin’ death with your game as it now stands. So, to borrow a 
line from Dennis Hopper, whaddaya do, whaddaya do? 
The easy step to take is the boldest: Quit. Write a snide or angry or regretful email 
- 
your choice - 
to the Storyteller, the Narrators, your fellow players and random 
passersby announcing your departure and enumerating your reasons for jumping ship. 
Doing so provides no small measure of catharsis, but it also pretty much eliminates the 
possibility of ever returning to the game. Phrases like “bloated, flaccid storytelling style” 
and “emotionally dishonest bouts of Rock-Paper-Scissors” may seem fun to write, but 
they do a wonderful job of ensuring that you’re never going to be welcomed back. 
Of course, if you’re feeling particularly spiteful, you can quit and try to start your 
own game, with the express purpose of putting the old one out of business. This idea 
is bad on any number of levels, not the least of which are A.) it’s a hell of a lot of work 
to do just to put a dull stick in someone’s figurative eye, and B.) if you do succeed in 
killing the other game, all of the players you felt compelled to leave behind will then 
seek to while away their evenings in your chronicle because there’s nowhere else for 
them to go. Oops. 
A more sensible approach is to sit down and dope out what exactly bothers you 
about the game as it’s currently configured. Writing it out helps. If nothing else, doing 
so forces you to formalize and organize what your thoughts on the matter actually are. 
Also, putting those thoughts in black and white (or green or red or whatever color ink 
you’re using, although I recommend against crayon) is a great way to see if you’ve got 
legitimate concerns or if you’re just being pissy. For instance, “My character is getting 
slapped around,” isn’t a legit concern. “My character is getting stomped like the 1998 
Minnesota Twins because the Storyteller gives his buddies all sorts of kewl powerz and 
ignores the rest of us,” is. 
Once you’ve got those concerns mapped out, you can look at them with a 
sufficiently jaundiced eye and decide what’s called for next. Maybe quitting - 
or just 
taking some time off - 
is the appropriate solution. The trick is remembering that it’s 
a solution, not a grandiose gesture of defiance. In the grand scheme of things, quitting 
a LARP is not quite on the same level as, say, standing in front of a tank in Tiananmen 
Square. Maybe a little time off is all you need to get your batteries recharged, or maybe 
you’re done with that game for good, but it’s still just a game you’re talking about. 
What that means is, if you’re going to go, go. Do it. Don’t make speeches about how 
it pains you to leave, don’t wait for your adoring ghouls to beg you to come back and 
save the game, don’t expect the world to end just because you’re walking away. Just go, 
and move on. Nothing is more annoying (including the brain surgeons who throw 
something that looks like an obscene hand gesture from a deranged gibbon during R- 
P-S and claim that it’s alternately a scrawny rock, curved scissors or really thin sheets 
of paper) than an ex-player who tries to imitate Banquo’s ghost by sticking around for 
the feast. Who knows? Maybe once you’re away for a bit, you’ll decide that you want 
to come back. Maybe you’ll want to start your own game after all. And maybe you’ll 
decide vou’ve iust had enoueh. and vou’11 close the book on that Darticular amect of 
I 


Then again, there are times when the big shakeup isn’t your doing. Games have 
been known, for any number of reasons, to fall down and go boom. Maybe the main 
Storyteller moves, quits or (Deoprohibe! -again 
with the Latin! It means“God forbid, 
in case you’re wondering, but let’s face it, Gladiator made this stuff cool again.) acquires 
another commitment that requires a sizable time investment. (Kids, for example. Kids 
are a big one.) Sometimes the game just winds down of its own accord, as the story line 
wraps up and nothing arises to take its place. Player attrition is another killer, especially 
if the game is one that relies on existing community to the extent that it rarely draws 
new blood. (In case you’re wondering, that’s a nice way of saying “Someone kills off all 
the newbies’ characters until the players stop coming back.”) And sometimes you just 
show up and the only people there are the Storyteller’s SO and the janitor, swapping 
war stories and comparing their favorite vintages of chardonnay. Hey, it happens. 
When it happens, though, you have to figure out what you’re going to do next. The 
easiest approach is just to sit on your thumbs and hope someone else decides to start 
another game up. The flaw with this approach, however, is twofold: One, you’re at the 
mercy of someone else’s gaming style and choice of material. Two, as one of my 
coworkers says, “Hope is the beginning of unhappiness.” 
Of course, if you feel disinclined to sit around and wait for someone else to bite the 
bullet, you can go the opposite route and start a game yourself. (There’s actually a third 
route, which can best be summed up as “guilt/ manipulate/ sucker someone else into 
doing it for your pleasure,” but we don’t condone that sort of thing here. Well, not often, 
and not when management is looking.) By doing so, you’re making sure that the game 
you want to play is getting run, and you’re taking squarely on your shoulders the 
responsibility for continuing the gaming community in your area. (Note: If you actually 
do decide to run a game, you have my respect, sympathy and admiration. You also 
probably have a need to hit yourself on the forehead with a large brick five or six times, 
just to prepare yourself for what’s coming next. It pretty much accurately simulates the 
unpleasant aspect of running a LARP, but with less photocopying.) Just make sure that 
if you do decide to run a game, you’re prepared for all of the hard work and the criticism 
that comes with it. If you value your life, sanity and stomach lining, do not expect 
people to kowtow before you in swooning admiration because you saved the game. 
Instead, be prepared for endless kvetching about how the old game was better, how they 
could do it better and quite possibly how a one-legged bullfrog who moonlights as a 
banjo player at the local Dukes of Hazzurd-themed watering hole could do it better. 
However, I can also state with some confidence that a storytelling staff composed of 
Taliesin, Sam Clemens, Senchan Torpeist and some balding dude named Bill would get 
the identical reaction. It’s when you don’t get any griping that you have to worry. That 
means they don’t care enough to bitch. 
In the end, it all boils down to this: It’s going to change. All of it. Your gaming 
group, your chronicle, even the very game you’re playing. Get over it. It’s going to 
happen. There’s no sense playing Canute and trying to hold back the waves, because 
it’s just not going to work. (No, I can’t tell you what clan Canute was, though I’m sure 
he’s in a book somewhere. Don’t blame me; I stuck to minor British nobility and people 
who were dead already. It seemed safest.) The inevitable end result is that you’ll end up 
all wet, with lots of people asking you who the heck Canute was. 
Ultimately, you have two responsibilities. The first is to yourself, and it’s a 
responsibility to have fun. Otherwise, why bother playing the game? Trudging grimly 
along to session after session doesn’t win you any metaphysical merit badges for 


persistence. There’s no great Pilgrim’s Progress-style reward for enduring the most 
gatherings of a game you’re not enjoying. So find a way to enjoy your gaming, or find 
gaming that you enjoy. 
That’s because the second responsibility is to be something other than a pain in the 
ass to everyone you’re playing with. You’ve got no right to keep others from having fun, 
even if you in your superior wisdom know that they’re playing the game wrong or by 
inferior rules or whatever. (And of course I’m not talking to you. I’m talking to that guy 
you know who’d act that way. Yeah, you know the one I’m talking about. He’s a jerk, 
isn’t he? What a bastard.) If other folks are having fun, let them. What exactly do you 
gain from deflating the tire of their happiness, other than more angry, sweaty company 
by the side of the road? Back off and respect their enjoyment, even if you can’t share 
it. If, however, you’re only happy when other people are embedded in the same morass 
of misery wherein you pass your darkened existence, you need to find the local Oblivion 
game and volunteer as a Shadowguide. To every thing there is a season, and all that. 
Make yourself useful. 
That’s what it all comes down to, then. Find a way to have fun with the game, 
regardless of its incarnation or rules set or setting or whatever, and don’t step on anyone 
else’s enjoyment. In the end - 
and Steve Wieck is going to kill me for daring to put this 
in print -you 
don’t have to buy every new book that comes along. You just have to be 
willing to have fun and to allow for the possibility that a new title or a new edition or a 
new game (or even a new way of playing that game) might actually be enjoyable. Mind 
you, I certainly hope you don’t give up on the old stuff. Those of us who worked on the 
old books will salute you for your loyalty, and then surreptitiously check the amazon.com 
sales rank of each of our titles when we think no one’s looking. You just can’t let your love 
of the old stuff preclude you from the possibility of having fun with the new. 
Come to thinkof it, that’sactually apretty good way to approach life. Give it ashot. 
Start small, say, with LARPing. After all, this cockamamie hobby just might be good 
for something after all. 
I 
PS: It’s been fun, folks. Thanks for reading along, and here’s hoping you got a smile 
or two out of this column. Me, I generally got enough to go out for a really nice Chinese 
dinner about once a month, plus an audience. I’d call that a fair trade. Now go have fun, 
or else I start writing another one of these, and God knows none of us wants that. 
1 
1 


LARCjF 9AMFS 
AND LONG CHRONICLFS 
J 
WHY THEY 
BRBAKAND 
How PLAYERS 
A N D  STORYTELLERS 
CAN E I X  THEM 
by Steve Balfour 
Most of us are not into Mind’s Eye Theatre live-action roleplaying for one- 
shot games. We want a rich chronicle with a history and story that evolves and 
changes as our characters plot, scheme and act. A slightly smaller set of us are 
into large games in chronicles or at conventions. Have you ever been to a live- 
action game with over 300 players dressed to the nines and roleplaying their 
hearts out? Oh, it’s a unique experience! Your character is always at risk. The 
biggest-name characters are there. A scene done right opens a dozen doors, and 
a scene done poorly closes them all. It’s astounding. 
Big games and long chronicles are not just different and desirable for the 
players, they’re a real challenge for the Storytellers and organizers. Game sites 
must be found, plots must be interwoven, characters must be directed, teams of 
Storytellers need coordinating, and all of the rest of the stuff we all help with to 
get these huge albatrosses to soar and swoop like eagles must be done. They are 
outrageous fun when everything goes well. They are mind-splitting headaches 
when they do not. 
So, do you want to play in or host a huge game? Have you ever wanted to 
storytell or play in a sprawling multi-city chronicle?How about just adding a few 
more ideas and possible solutions for that big game you already enjoy or run? 
Well, that’s why I’m writing. 
Partially. I couldn’t address all the things that make large games and 
chronicles fantastic successes, but I can cover some of the most important 
elements that will help you shine as a Storyteller or player - 
the rules and the 
dynamics of large games. And no, this article shouldn’t prove unhelpfully 
esoteric; I’ve become a practical guy since I started coordinating larger LARPs 
in 1994. I’ve seen a lot after being a Storyteller at several of bigger conventions 
like Dragon*Con and being on the production and storytelling teams of many 
of the Camarilla’s large games (White Wolf’s fan club called the Camarilla, not 
the fictional vampire sect). As far as tips go, I’ve worked and roleplayed with 
some of the best in the World of Darkness LARP scene. Plus, I have a secret 
weapon that helps me make sense out of some of the odd problems we face in 
large LARPs and international chronicles: I have a few degrees in psychology. 
So, WHAT’S 
T H E  BI 
cj DEAL. 
? 
Big games and long chronicles cause rules to break, plots to break, players 
to break and Storytellers to break. LARPs become large at about 150 players - 
the kind of games you find at the larger conventions and some of the season 
finales of the really big LARP groups. In the Camarilla, we run about a dozen 


large games each year, ranging from 150 to 350 players and one really enormms 
game with close to 1000 players at the annual International Camarilla Conven- 
tion (ICC). Some people find my lower boundary of 150 players too high, of 
course; a 70-person game is too large for some. Whatever the case is for you, I’ll 
stick to describing the game and plot logistics that I’ve learned in the school of 
hard knocks, because that’s what’s relevant to the majority of large games. You’re 
probably not too interested about how to rent out an entire hotel for three nights 
like the ICC does. 
I think of a long+running MET chronicle as one that’s been running for at 
least a year and has some pretty good continuity-reinforcing mechanisms in 
place, such as email lists, a solid group of core players or some long-lived 
characters. Although long chronicles can take place in just one city, several 
groups - 
including the Camarilla (club not sect), One World by Night and 
Shared Universe - 
host multi-city chronicles. The Camarilla’s chronicle, for 
instance, has about 250 cities on four continents playing in a 6000-person 
chronicle that started in 1992. The Camarilla runs weekly or biweekly events 
with 20 to 100 players and maintains numerous email lists to keep Storytellers 
coordinated and everybody roleplaying to their hearts’ content. 
How Brg C ~ A M E S  B R E A K A N D  
WHY 
Big games and long chronicles cause rules to break, plots to break, players 
to break and Storytellers to break. Smaller games allow for more personal 
interaction between Storytellers, players, plots and the rules. If your MET 
chronicle consists of seven players and one Storyteller, you can run it very much 
like a table-top game with the Storyteller describing the reactions of the World 
of Darkness and helping everyone through challenges that they perform. The 
feel is personal, the plots can be grand and world-changing, and the mechanics 
of the rules can be governed by consensus. The Storyteller has a good idea of 
what each character is doing, and he can work on character development, 
personal horror and intriguing plot twists from each character’s past. 
As the game gets larger, more players end up in conflict with each other so 
that the chronicle shifts subtly away from the Storyteller describing the World 
of Darkness to the players defining the World of Darkness for each other. Even 
if the ratio of Storytellers to players is the same as it is in a smaller game, the larger 
game becomes less personalized to each character. Unlike a game with one 
Storyteller and seven players, a game with 10 Storytellers and 70 players means 
that no one Storyteller knows the general plans of each and every character and 
that lots of player actions and challenges take place outside of the Storytellers’ 
view. Social dynamics also become a factor in the 70-person game, whereas 
personal dynamics are more prominent in the seven-person game, so the 
psychological rules of play change for everyone involved. 
When a game branches out to multiple cities, a whole new level of 
complexity occurs. All of the sudden, the plots have to shrink in scope to 
accommodate the diverse views of the Storytellers in different cities. Yes, the 
plots have to shrink. In a seven-person game, for instance, the Storyteller can 
dictate that the characters burned Atlanta to the ground. Even in a 70-person 
game in one city, it’s not that big of a deal (logistically) to have some monstrous 
force sink Vancouver or wipe out an entire supernatural character type. But, as 


soon as two different cities join the same Chronicle, the Storytellers and players 
have to deal with what each other city does. The Storytellers and players cannot 
write and perform plot lines with worldwide effects without having all the 
Storytellers (and the majority of players) in all the cities agree and accept them. 
For instance, the Brujah justicar cannot both hold a conclave in one city 
and be diablerized in another at the same time. High King David cannot disband 
the Parliament of Dreams in one city but charge the Parliament with a task in 
the other. Therefore, the possible plots for multi-city chronicles must shrink in 
scope as the number of cities in a chronicle increases, and that shrinking changes 
players’ opportunities and Storytellers’ plot tools. 
Multi-city games also put more stress on the Storytellers and the rules, because 
it is much harder to coordinate information for two or more teams than it is for only 
one. What happens if a character destroys a police station in one city and then 
plays in another nearby city the next night? How quickly do police respond in the 
World of Darkness? How is everyone with Police and Media Influence informed? 
Does that character’s action impact the levels of Influence (or danger) in each city? 
Were the Willpower Traits that the character spent last night in the other city 
marked off for play tonight? Many of these questions are easy to answer in a one- 
city game, but they become problems when two or more cities are involved. When 
you add the elements of players with email or ICQ, you start to see how the 
Storytellers can be outpaced by the players in two or 250 cities. 
H o w  RULES 
BREAK 
Let’s go back to large games for a while. The goal of the MET system is to 
help players have fun roleplaying and acting out stories. In larger games, some 
categories of rules begin to fray. The first category of rules that break in a large 
game is that which encourages lots of tests. As an example, an Elysium scene 
with 100 players in the same room descends into across-the-room testing hell 
when a single obfuscated Malkavian walks into the room among its security- 
paranoid court officials and supernaturally observant spectators. What happens 
when two or three such characters walk in at the same or different times? 
Another example relevant to all MET rules is mass combat. In a room of 70 
players, mass combat requires a charismatic Storyteller and a few assistants to 
coordinate. The problem is compounded if only 35 of those 70 players in the 
room are actually in the combat while the other 35 are trying to roleplay other 
scenes occurring in the same place. 
Another category of rules that break in large games involves those rules that 
rely on Storyteller interpretation. Large-game Storytellers are not part of a hive 
mind. They will inevitably make different rulings about the way bonus Traits from 
supernatural powers work, the amount or type of information that supernatural 
detection gives or what effects some powers have. Aside from the complaints that 
can generate among players, this inconsistency causes incongruities in the story. 
Most of these sorts of problems are not a concern in games with up to five 
Storytellers. Adding any more Storytellers, though, makes every little ambiguity 
a possible frustration for everyone that can lead to a break from roleplaying. 
The last category of rules that break in large games comprises rules that 
introduce complexity to the game or record keeping for the game. In a room of 
seven, it’s not a big deal to mark a Trait off a character sheet or even track 


temporary Trait totals. In a room of 70, the game changes. Large games have 
more action going on all the time. Players have to attend to and remember a lot 
more information, and the information is often less organized or predictable 
than information in a smaller game. The nuances of rules end up being 
annoyances in large games. The larger the game is, the greater its need becomes 
for fewer rules, simpler rules and rules that are easy to memorize. Also, it is much 
better to eliminate rules that require dragging out character sheets in large 
games. Stopping the action for one player can potentially affect the rest of the 
players in the room negatively. 
Multi-city chronicles face most of the large-game problems, but with a 
higher negative-impact potential. Two additional concerns that arise in those 
games impact rules for multi-city chronicles. First, the frequency of character 
death should be minimized for the sake of both player satisfaction and chronicle 
continuity. It is often to the advantage of a chronicle to power down offensive 
supernatural abilities and Merits while giving a character’s defensive capabilities 
more weight. Second, keeping records and managing rules for refreshing used 
Ability and Background Traits becomes difficult in multi-city games. Consis- 
tent, easy- to-remember rules about refresh rates can lighten the burden of record 
keeping and decrease the chance of player mistakes in multi-city chronicles. 
H O W  PLOTS 
BREAK 
The stresses on rules in large games can sometimes be smoothed over by a 
dynamic Storyteller attending to the story and circumstances at the time. 
However, stresses on plots in large games can ruin any chance of creating a 
chronicle or allowing for meaningful character development. A challenge for 
any game with many Storytellers lies in coordinating plot lines over space and 
time. Just the layout of the place where a large game is held can make 
communication between Storytellers easier or harder. Technology can help. So 
can regularly scheduled meetingsduring the course of play. (But beware, though, 
that Storytellers cannot just walk away from certain situations because they 
have a meeting to attend.) 
As games increase in size, players begin to define the World of Darkness for 
each other more than they rely on the Storytellers to define it for them. This 
effect occurs partially because more players are introducing their characters’ 
agenda into the game, adding a multitude of character-driven plots to the story. 
As the game increases in size, some players grow more independent of the 
Storytellers and the rest of the players, so their character’s plots also begin to 
diverge from what can reasonably be expected. 
While this divergence makes larger games more interesting, it poses a 
significant challenge to Storytellers writing plots. On one hand, character- 
driven plots can be the focus of a large game (with a little Storyteller facilitation 
and moderation). On the other hand, character-driven plots can evaporate 
rapidly as the characters achieve their goals and begin to look for something else 
to do. In smaller games, it is much easier to understand where the characters are 
going and provide the necessary elements in the plot to deepen the roleplaying 
experience. In larger games, not only is it harder to track and understand where 
the characters are going, but having more characters means opening the door for 
many more character-driven plots. Add in the fact that each Storyteller has a 


slightly different style of working with character-driven plots and you can see 
why games with more and more Storytellers, such as multi-city chronicles, face 
many different challenges for moderating character-driven plots and writing 
their own plots. 
Plot lines have to be satisfying to the players, something that a Storyteller 
can build into a plot he writes, but that character-drivenplots do not necessarily 
include. However, each degree of uncertainty introduced by increasing the 
number of players or Storytellers makes writing plots more challenging. In a 
game governed principally by character-driven plots, Storytellers need a set of 
stock plot lines that can be implemented quickly when the character-driven 
plots dry up. A set of stock plots may sound less interesting or challenging to 
write than tailored plots, but such i s  not the case. A set ofstock plots must cover 
the range ofplayers that may be attending agame. The plots must be interesting, 
satisfying and linked into the chronicle in an understandable way, rather than 
randomly throwing a treasure-laden Judas goat out for the characters to fight 
over. Shrewd storytelling teams in multi-city chronicles weave lots of plot line 
hooks into the chronicle so that they can put a plot into play at the most 
opportune time . 
In large LARPs, players do not always create their characters’ agenda with 
a concern for entertaining the assembled group. Moderating character-driven 
plots can seem as difficult as negotiating trade rights between hostile countries. 
Players, you can help by keeping the group in mind as you decide what your 
character will do each night. Storytellers, you have to balance the enjoyment 
that the group is drawing from all the combined plots in play and the desire for 
players to have their characters in the spotlight just enough to make their 
roleplaying experience. 
H O W  PLAYERS 
BREAK 
Small games are based on personal dynamics and regulated by friendship 
and understanding. Large games are less personal, and they begin to rely on 
larger-scale social dynamics. For instance, it is much harder for a character to be 
left out of a small game. The players or Storytellers involved can reintegrate any 
neglected characters quickly. In large games, players and Storytellers feel less 
accountable to each other and take less action to help each other. This effect is 
called the “bystander effect” in social psychology, named after the fact that 
people will act like bystanders if they consider themselves anonymous parts of 
a large group. Larger games present each player and Storyteller with a zillion 
things to attend to and do, more than enough to feel less accountable to the 
entire game than a group of seven would. Players and Storytellers have to be 
aware of the bystander effect and how it affects a LARP. 
It is also true that people feel that they need to do less individually as the 
group size grows. One reason is “social loafing.”That is, the players feel less likely 
to be evaluated by others because they are in a larger group. Another reason is 
the “free rider effect” in which people believe that someone else is likely to solve 
the problem first so they do not try themselves. Both of these behaviors increase 
the percentage of players who rely on Storytellers for providing plots in larger 
and larger games. This claim seems at odds with the fact that having more 
characters leads to more character-driven plots. What is really happening in a 


larger game, though, is that one set of players becomes more independent and 
begins introducing character-driven plots while another set of players becomes 
more dependent on the Storytellers or other players for plots. The combination 
of these effects makes it necessary to increase the ratio of Storytellers to players 
in large games without structured plots. Because doing so is often unfeasible, 
players can be educated to help other players if they are willing. Furthermore, 
simplifying the rules, decreasing the number of challenges called for by the rules, 
decreasing the complexity of rule-to-rule interaction and making rules easy to 
memorize can decrease the need of players to rely on Storytellers. 
Another social dynamic that governs large games is the “risky shift effect.” 
When excitement gets high, people in large groups tend to feel that their actions 
will meet with fewer consequences, so they attempt to do more outlandish stuff. 
In live-action roleplaying, this behavior results in more challenges per player in 
larger groups than smaller groups. The number of challenges increases exponen- 
tially as both the number of players and challenges per player goes up. Each of 
the challenges has the potential to require a Storyteller or require looking up 
rules or require many other breaks in roleplaying. Therefore, it is better to 
decrease the potential number of challenges to improve game flow for larger 
groups. The risky shift effect also causes players to act in less predictable and 
more diverse ways with their characters in large games or on large email lists. It 
also means that some characters will hop on the fast-moving bandwagon just for 
the thrill. Storytellers and other players have to plan and compensate for the fact 
that larger groups give rise to more diverse and bolder reactions than they would 
encounter in small groups. 
H o w  STORYTELLERS 
BREAK 
The two problem areas for Storytellers lie in setting up the chronicle and 
running the game. That covers just about everything, right? Setting up a large 
game or a multi-city chronicle is a difficult task. In small LARPs, the players can 
select what they want within the Storyteller’s comfort zone. Because the players 
and Storytellers in a seven-person game are able to negotiate and define the 
entire world themselves, character creation and setting are much different than 
a game with many cities. When 70 players are involved, the World of Darkness 
ratios play a role in character creation. The conventions of the genre start to 
unravel when the Lasombra untitribu outnumber the Brujah two-to-one. Simi- 
larly, any deviation from the actual place and time in which the players are 
involved has to be explained meticulously to large groups. Imagine the out-of- 
play disaster that happens when the group patrolling the park accidentally 
comes into the same play area as the group hunting in the forest, and it takes 
several rounds to figure out that the groups are not in the same place in character. 
Multi-city chronicles require an even higher level of attention to initial 
characters and setting, especially if the chronicle adds players as it goes. Rules 
for character type distribution, setting variations and using places that are not 
in any of the participating cities have to be worked out between all the 
Storytellers. It is terribly embarrassing when a new city joins a multi-city 
chronicle with a great background only to find out that the new city was a war 
zone in the existing chronicle. 


Large games also seem to suck Storytellers into the most protracted 
problems and challenges. As the number of players increases, the diversity of 
problems that are possible also increases. Instead of regulating story flow, the 
higher number of challenges and higher chance for mass combat in large games 
stakes a claim on the Storytellers’ time. 
C A N  
You REALLY 
EIX ALL THIS 
STUEE? 
Yes. To be completely honest, and with apologies to Murphy, not everything 
that can go wrong will go wrong. Most of the problems for large games or multi- 
city chronicles stem from two sets of core elements. The first set of problems can 
be addressed with a supplement to the MET rules. These problems are the 
complexity of the rules, the escalating number of challenges in a large game, 
ambiguity in the rules and inconsistencies in the expectations of the participants. 
The second set of problems can be addressed with procedures and technology. 
These problems include lack of information management, lack of support for 
Storytellers’ auxiliary needs and lack of planning for plot contingencies. 
M O R E  RULES? 
No. Fewer. Before I get too much further along, I want to say that I’m not 
writing the actual supplement for your specific game or chronicle. That’s for you 
to do. I want to show you the areas in which you can eliminate or simplify rules 
while still using the MET system. The Camarilla club has a supplement that 
addresses its needsfor the global, 24/7, live-action and internet chronicle it runs 
between 250 cities on four continents. That supplement might not be too 
helpful if you are planning a 120-person one-shot convention LARP. The thing 
to keep in mind, whether you are thinking about the Camarilla supplement or 
your own, is that new players will expect to recognize the rules you are using. In 
some cases, they’ll ask you to justify why you are using those rules, and it’s good 
to be able to answer. (Hint: Show them this article!) 
So, here is the punch line on rules: 
Large games should use a few, simple, easy-to-memorize rules that minimize 
the number of challenges and minimize offensive power. 
Need a few examples of where you can trim? Anything that can be done to 
eliminate the need for referring to a character sheet should be done. Players in 
complex costumes who are engaged in roleplay should not have to drag character 
sheets out of their pockets, let alone have to find a pencil to mark on those sheets. 
An ingenious character sheet design can make things that have to be marked off 
like Blood, Willpower, Gnosis and Glamour Traits, not to mention health levels, 
easy to mark off without unfolding. Other things necessary for challenges should 
be easy to remember, such as using numbers instead of Trait names or relying on 
permanent Trait totals for challenge-resolution instead of temporary Trait totals. 
Game mechanics that interrupt roleplaying should be minimized. For 
example, the Camarilla uses White Wolfs table-top rules as a basis for Auspex 
versus Obfuscate challenges in its vampire LARPs; the higher level of Auspex 
pierces the lower level of Obfuscate automatically. This change minimizes the 
number of across-the-room challenges because players hold up the number of 
fingers for the level of Obfuscate or Auspex they’re using, and everyone knows 
with minimal challenges who can see whom, or who cannot be seen. This idea 


____ - 
~ 
Try to reduce the number of tests that the rules require. Streamline mass 
combat when the outcome looks clear. For instance, the 50-on-five mob scene 
can be resolved with everyone pointing once and holding up a sign once. The 
Storyteller then narrates the results of the entire battle without further chal- 
lenges save death blows. Combat in the MET system is always slow, and it takes 
a charismatic ST to control the room and get things done efficiently any time 
15+ characters are involved. 
Standardization helps in large games. There are a few examplesof the way that 
MET rules can have multiple interpretations, so make rules calls so that all 
Storytellers will be consistent. Some of the problem points that the Camarilla has 
found are the way that Awareness was written, the way Rapidity was written and the 
way Dominate was written. What is the Awareness retest? Does the multiple-action 
penalty still apply when a character uses Rapidity? Does the one retest mentioned 
in theDominate descriptionrefer only toone Willpowerretest, or one retestperiod? 
You’ll find others as your Storytellers make rulings in your game. 
Also, rules that help set the expectations of the participants are good 
additions for large games. For instance, the character types, powers or Merits 
with the best game effects will be the most numerous in large games, despite what 
the World of Darkness calls for. If players make their own characters, simple and 
fair rules for regulating rarity are a must. 
In multi-city chronicles, minimizing offensive power is generally a good 
thing. High offense is great for one-shot convention games, but it’s bad for a 
long-running chronicle in which players travel through terrae incognitae four 
times a year. Cities or regular travel circuits tend to develop a pulse that helps 
their character interaction along. Often, the players have characters of about 
the same power level, they understand each others’ habits, and they tolerate 
each others’ flaws. Going outside that travel circuit places those characters at 
serious risk, so it is best to take steps to see that the beating the characters can 
get will not be a fatal one. Eliminate one-shot kills. Select the least damaging 
optional rules in the MET books. Think about the weapons you allow in your 
chronicle. Don’t compound aggravated damage. Reduce the effects of powers 
and Merits that give certain characters excessive advantages over others, both 
to discourage every character having the same set of Merits and to discourage the 
rise of unbeatable Narrator characters. For instance, the Herd Background for 
vampires is incredibly powerful in a chronicle that runs 24 hours, seven dam a 
week, and it should be toned down. 
Other things that can get difficult in multi-city chronicles are supernatural 
effects that work over a distance. Powers that allow clairvoyance effects should 
be regulated because they can cause time freezes or delays in getting information 
that characters should have immediately. 
O T H E R  HELPFUL PROCEDURES 
Large games and multi-city chronicles need good policies and procedures for 
managing information, supporting Storytellers and handling plot contingencies. 
Technology has provided many ways for Storytellers and players to distribute 
information quickly. In larger games, it is often a good idea for Storytellers to get 
LARGE 
GAMESAND 
L o ~ q  
CHRONICLES 


help gathering information from the players. Players of harpies, Galliards, bards 
and many other character types can be encouraged to get a copy of their 
observations to the Storytellers. Storytellers can set up email lists for Influence 
information and expenditures, rules-call archiving, actions that affect the World 
of Darkness; whatever information might be necessary for you to communicate to 
many others. Web pages are great ways to keep all game participants up to speed. 
Everything from game times and places, character biographies to information 
about setting and rules, and even tips about how to get more involved in the game 
are helpful additions to large games and chronicles. 
Too much information can also be a problem. As the person who has been 
writing a quarterly summary of the North American chronicle for the vampire 
genre of the Camarilla (about 4000 players), I can tell you about information 
overload. Finding the appropriate level of information for your Storytellers and 
players is very important. Some Storytellers will need more information about 
particular things like Influences, plot details or monumental actions taken by 
characters. Reporting to each other becomes a necessity for multi-city chronicles. 
Speaking of administration, auxiliary Storyteller support helps a great deal 
in larger games and chronicles. Having a person who helps settle disputes 
between players keeps all the Storytellers on the floor during the game. Other 
types of non-Storyteller assistance -finding sites, doing web work, writing and 
communicating - 
can also help. 
US IN^ PSYCHOLO~Y 
A N D  C U N N I N ~ T O  
PLANEOR 
B V E R Y T H I N ~  
Using psychology and cunning to plan for everything is perhaps the best key 
to a great game. In large games, plans must include character-driven plots, lulls 
in the story, players who rely on the Storytellers to inspire them, risky character 
behavior and other players jumping on the bandwagon that others set in motion. 
A common saying in large games is that a player must also act partially as a 
Storyteller. Character-driven plots take on great force in a larger game or multi- 
city chronicle. The Storytellers lose direct control over the majority of plot lines 
that enter the game. 
With respect to character-driven plots, Storytellers become plot modera- 
tors. They watch and police, using the World of Darkness and its long-standing 
characters to regulate the machinations of the characters. Storytellers can divert 
and redirect character plots by introducing higher-priority tasks like a visiting 
dignitary or serious attack. Altering the priority of a character-driven plot is 
useful if a player is not restraining her character well, but don’t do it too often. 
Players become resentful, and they may even stop trying to put their characters’ 
agenda into play if they get stonewalled too often. Try to listen to the discussion 
that your players have before, after and long after the game. Are they getting 
what they want? 
Storytellers can use less overwhelming plots to regulate character plots. 
Putting a situation in play that competes for the plotting character’s attention 
is a nice tactic, and you can also learn something about the goals of the character 
and motivations of the player. Characters who usually attend to the Storyteller 
plots over their own plots can help build momentum for other characters. 


Characters who stick to their guns when a competing situation is introduced can 
be used to provide a second set of plots for players who are bored. All it takes is 
a little bit of material to move the character forward when a lull occurs. Be 
shrewd, learn the habits of the key players in your large game. You can also 
introduce competing plots with the intention of drawing off some of the 
characters working for a lead character who is progressing too quickly. These 
types of “control-rod plots” are a great way to draw out stories based oncharacter- 
driven plots that are sometimes fulfilled quickly. 
If character-driven plots are moving the story along well, the Storyteller can 
sometimes introduce a minor side-plot to involve the few characters not already 
taking part in the action. Introduce these “sweeper plots” carefully, though, so that 
the characters without anything to do take the lead. You can then build that plot 
into something that will take over in the inevitable lull that character-driven plots 
are so susceptible to. Just make sure that the secondary plot takes over the large- 
group action only when the character-driven plots are beginning to wane. 
Character-driven plots are delicate. They require a light touch and a strong 
commitment to helping a large number of players get the most enjoyment out 
of the scenes. Be cautious that you are spending the most time moderating the 
character-driven plots that incorporate lots of other players. It is easy to get 
caught up in the development of a personal plot for a character because of the 
rewarding roleplaying and progress that you get to see, but Storytellers at large 
games have to watch the whole game and foster the larger story. 
Players can also help keep a game interesting by developing character-driven 
plots. By taking the character’s goals and translating them into action in the game, 
each player becomes a catalyst for story. As more characters get involved in the 
character-driven plots, the driving character will experience more roleplaying. 
Beware, though, that marching straight in with a new character and lots of 50- 
player plots in your character’s mind will be a disappointing experience. Take the 
time to build some relationships between characters and form some ties that allow 
for the larger plots. In some instances, it can take a year or more to integrate your 
character’s agenda into a chronicle in such a way that he can interact effectively 
with 50 other characters in one project. 
GETTING R I D  O E  LULLS 
Aside from using moderation techniques on character-driven plots to 
alleviate lulls in the story at a large game, Storytellers can raise the intensity of 
background plots. Doing so is similar to the idea behind bringing a sweeper plot 
into the limelight when character-driven plots slow down. Background plots 
can come from a host of little plots that the characters in the game have 
forgotten about. It is good to make sure that each Storyteller at a large game has 
one or two of those background plots in mind as well as a prop or character that 
can kick off the plot. Using background plots in this way brings a sense of 
continuity to the game, and it results in a lot of players trying to remember what 
happened before to set the plot in motion. 
To set up background plots, have several Storytellers introduce plots in 
threes for the first few games in a chronicle. Then, strengthen the plots that the 
characters respond to and let the ignored plots fall to the wayside deliberately. 
Write down the forgotten plots. Look at the characters’ Backgrounds, Flaws and 


Negative Traits to find a way to integrate the forgotten plots. Then, wait for the 
opportunity to re-introduce each plot. 
Long-running Storyteller characters that are either mentors or foils (or 
even both) are also good tools for getting rid of lulls. It is best to get a distinctive 
costume, a real attention-grabber, for Storyteller characters such as this. Talk 
loudly or very softly, but speak distinctively when portraying the Storyteller 
character. Use the Storyteller character to generate continuity and remind the 
players of what has happened in the past. Set up relationships with many 
characters, and use those relationships to introduce plot after plot when the 
story needs it. 
I N V O  L V I  
N cj EVERY 
o N E 
... is very hard. Sometimes, players are at the game to watch it like television 
or just to socialize with friends. Having an out-of-character room at larger events 
is a godsend. Character creation can take place there, as can plenty of socializing. 
Players (and their characters) who are there to watch the game can be 
entertained by keeping a high level of interesting roleplaying going on among 
your resident hams. Make sure that you are initiating sweeper plots every once 
in a while to see if the wallflowers will nibble, but if not, do what you can to keep 
the center stage lively. 
Players who are interested in involving others should take the initiative and 
approach the quiet ones. Sometimes these players are new, and sometimes they 
are just playing quiet characters. Take one of your character’s goals and present 
it as a joint venture. Let the quiet ones get involved at whatever level is 
comfortable for both of you. Have your character introduce them to your 
associates. You can make a player’s night by bringing the game to him for just 
a little while. 
Never forget that you have out-of-character mechanisms to help players 
stay involved. After the game is over, ask those who seemed to do little if they 
had fun. Ask them what they are looking for and if they need some help getting 
involved. Make out-of-character suggestions to some of your movers and shakers 
that there are a few who might like to get involved in some of the grander 
schemes. All in all, involving everyone is a significant challenge and takes the 
action of both Storytellers and players in large games. 
RISKY 
CHARACTER 
BEHAVIOR 
A N D T H F  B A N D W A ~ O N  
EEEECT 
The crowd of characters is getting worked up, and they reach that critical 
moment. The acting is grand, the tensions reach their crescendo, and combat 
beings! Now what? First, have an organization plan with afew other Storytellers 
to handle mass combats and big groups. Make sure that you have simple and fast 
procedures to name a lead Storyteller for the group, and get a few supporting 
Storytellers for the inevitable branching off and group action. Know your mass- 
combat rules, and be prepared to set the tempo for any such group action. In 
short, be energetic, positive, fair and in control. 
When players make risky moves with their characters, evaluate what the 
story might gain from the character’s actions and consequences. Sometimes, 


capitalizing on these types of actions is the best way to make a game more fun. 
The benefit rarely carries over longer than a single game, though. 
One of the more troubling aspects about players taking risky actions with 
their characters is that they will often look back at what they did and wonder 
why they did it. If things went well, they’ll just shrug and move on, but if the 
situation went poorly, regret sets in. Talking to players who messed up in front 
of a group if you have the chance. Help them to see how the setting world and 
the other characters respond to that sort of thing. Usually, it just takes a positive 
perspective to help players see that, while their actions may seem like huge 
screw-ups, they’re actually just giving birth to new stories. 
I call the phenomenon that arises from this perspective the “soap opera 
effect.” Nothing exciting would happen on a soap opera if the characters didn’t 
get caught doing all the bad stuff that they do. Similarly, the story in a LARP 
improves for a number of characters when their characters’ machinations 
become the object of inquiry. People follow the muddiest political battles and 
the most outrageous court cases because it interests them and gives them 
something to talk about. Characters making large mistakes in front of huge 
groups can have this same, glorious effect. 
In fact, some players believe in the soap opera effect so much that they make 
in-character mistakes with their favorite characters deliberately. They use their 
characters to drop hints about bigger plots and then backtrack with guilty 
obviousness at times. Some players advocate getting your character into all sorts 
of sordid little plots that could provide a minor scandal at a large game. After you 
teach yourself to appreciate the story that you can create, it’s kind of fun to stir 
up the mud on purpose. Oh, and your character has to catch a few others at their 
dastardly deeds and expose those rascals. It’s an obligation to the story, of course. 
The bandwagon effect is a bit harder to manage, and it really requires that 
you have contingency plans as Storytellers. Storytellers with a couple of plots in 
their pockets can use the departure of the bandwagon characters to turn a large 
game into a small game for the remaining players. It is the perfect opportunity 
to build a wonderful roleplaying session with just a few characters - 
which is 
a treat in any large game. 
WRAPPINC~ 
Up 
There are so many more possibilities for what you can do with large games 
and multi-city chronicles as a player or Storyteller. Each large game or multi-city 
chronicle is a unique organism that’s very different from a smaller game because 
of the changing roles of Storyteller and player, the scope of the plots that are 
possible and the social factors that start to manifest. Storytellers, remember the 
Golden Rule: Use the rules and suggestions that promote the story and fun in 
your game. The MET system is wonderful in its flexibility and the allowances 
it makes for the story over the rules. I hope that some of the insight into large 
games has been valuable and will help you creating pleasing stories the next time 
you run or play in one. 


HOW DOFS IT FFFL? 
by Peter Woodworth 
When you play Mind’s Eye Theatre, you usually take on the role of a character 
whose daily life includes powers and states of being that are completely alien to 
normal human experience. Such a role demands a correspondingly creative mind 
and some in-depth roleplaying on the player’s part. Obviously, meeting this demand 
isn’t always easy, even for the best garners. Sometimes, players come instead to see 
their characters as little more than tragically hip humans with a range of special 
talents and a few really killer allergies. In turn, this misconception robs some of the 
mystery and drama from a character’s supernatural existence and generally turns the 
game from modem myth to more of a Gothic superhero comic. 
This article’s goal is to help give players a gut-level sense of what it really feels 
like to walk as one of the Awakened. Read on for some points of reference on some 
of the more common powers and experiences for those looking to really step into 
their character’s shoes. Remember, as always, that none of this information is set 
in stone. It is all material for handy reference intended to spark the right creative 
fires. If you want Garou shapeshifting to be painless or faerie enchantment to be 
purely delightful, by all means, go right ahead. It’s your game, after all. 
Bearing that in mind, it often helps to remember these basic rules for playing 
a supernatural creature “accurately”: 
Repeat after me: “MycharacterisNOTjustahumanwithneatsuperpwers!” 
Supernatural powers are not accidental, and characters can’t simply learn 
them from thin air. Even fae magic still operates according to rules, however bizarre 
or arcane those rules might be. Most powers take some concentration or ritual; many 
require the expenditure of vital energies. Most importantly, aU powers require some 
time to practice and master, even those that a character acquires instinctively. 
If your character is a vampire or a wraith, he was once human, but now 
he’s dead. He may linger on in some new, shadowy existence, but underneath it 
all lies the fact that he cheated final judgment; that he simply should not be. 
If your character is a shapeshifter or a faerie, she was never human to 
begin with. She looked like one for a while, and she might think like one 
still, but like it or not, she was born of a different species. She cannot escape 
what she truly is forever. 
Now that that’s out of the way, let’s see what the night has in store. ... 
VAMPIRE: 
THE 
MASQUERADE 
AWAKEN IN^ A P T E R T H E  EMBRACE 
“They’ll tell you it’s like waking up. Uh-huh. Like being born is waking up, 
maybe. First you have to die, remember, and that hurts. Sure, it’s blissful and sweet 
at first, but then the last of your blood goes, and you realize you’ve actually been 
climbing to the top of a cold, dark mountain, with nothing but blackness below. 
You slip, you fall, you feel numbness spreading as the blackness reaches out to suck 
you in. Then you splash down, liquid all around, and everything is on fire. You hit 
apool of gasoline two seconds ahead of a match. Your throat is scorched, your limbs 
are burning, your whole body is a block of ice thawing out in a crematorium, and 
How DOES IT FEEL? 
4D 


believe me you feel every inch of it as the flames pass over you. It drives the best 
of us crazy with pain, let me tell you. Strangest thing, though: One of the first 
thoughts you have is I’m still cold. As much hot blood as you get then or ever, you’ll 
never quite get back what you had when you were alive.” 
- 
Ad, Brujah philosopher 
T H E  HUNGER 
The Hunger is not the unpleasant ache of skipping lunch or dinner. A human 
going without food or water or sex or sleep for several weeks, now there’s someone 
who is beginning to understand a glimmer of what the Hunger feels like. It is more 
than just a gnawing, consuming physical pain, though it is that too. Indeed, the 
Hunger is more aptly named because it is a drive that devours avampire’s thoughts, 
one by one, until only the idea of feeding - 
feeding NOW, without shame or 
caution or conscience - 
remains. It is loud, it is impatient, it is savage, it is 
everything inhuman. What’s more, it always, always wins in the end. 
E R E N Z Y  
The world shifts to black and white, with just a few brilliant points of color. 
Threats-color. Prey -color. Everything else simply fades into thescenery. Speech 
is an aimless, unintelligible mess, and other noises sound like they’re distorted and 
far away. That is, unless they indicate a threat of some kind, in which case even the 
softest noise is as loud as a pistol fired next to the vampire’s ear. To make matters 
worse, this black and white film changes speed constantly, without warning, going 
fiompainfullyslowmotion t o a h t i c  fluny ofimagesat theedgeofcomprehension. 
Without living nerve endings, the pain of the undead isn’t a biological 
response anymore, more like outrage embodied. It’s a primal sense of fear and 
anger that something is actually threatening the vampire’s immortality. A 
human feels agony as nerves sever and blood flows. By contrast, the vampire 
registers a knife’s cut, but ordinary pain is replaced by a instinctive fear for his 
unlife combined with arising feeling of, “How dare she hurt me! ?” In game terms, 
both are suffering the same Trait penalties due to the distraction of their wounds, 
but the sensation vampires experience is quite different. 
PAIN 
DRINKING 
Once he is able to overcome his revulsion and disgust at what he is doing, a 
vampire experiences each mortal from whom he drinks as a unique “vintage.” The 
young are energy embodied, and their blood flows sweet and bright, while the 
elderly are usually sluggish and heavy with an almost flat taste. Mortals who have 
just exercised (or run or fought) have an adrenaline tang to them, while those 
sleeping have a low warmth instead, like a soothing cup of tea. Blood itself has a 
faint metallic aftertaste and slightly thick texture as it is consumed. The victim’s 
emotions play a role in the experience as well. Fear comes through as a delicious 
sour twist, while pleasure has a round, comforting taste. Each mortal at each 
moment has a slightly different flavor, and each should be savored accordingly. 
SPENDI 
NG” BLOOD 
“First there’s a kind of push inside, like trying a move an arm or a leg that’s fallen 
asleep. It’s not too much effort, but it’s not a purely unconscious action, either. Then 
6 6  


there’s warmth in the arm or leg or wherever it was you willed blood to go, but it’s not 
a comforting heat. It’s more like the warmth you get when you throw the last log onto 
the fire. Itmaykeepyoufora time,butyouknowit’sgonejustthesame.Youknowthat 
before long, the cold will drive you out to search for more. And our winter never ends.” 
- 
Favian, Elder Setite 
C H A N ~ I N ~  
FORMS 
Certain wise Cainites can force their bodies to flow like blood, allowing 
them to assume different shapes. Doing so requires great discipline to avoid 
dispersing oneself, which explains why most such vampires know only one or 
two other shapes. First blood saturates the vampire’s entire body, spreading a 
warm, almost lifelike tingle along the skin as it travels. Next there’s a sickening, 
almost helpless feeling of floating apart as the blood flows into its new shape. 
Finally, the blood recedes from the outer edges of the body, surrounding the 
vampire’s entire new form with a chill hardness. 
THE MOMENTOE 
BEING STAKED 
Some say that the heart only finally stops when the weight of years becomes too 
much for it to bear. Now try to imagine what the weight of immortality must feel like. 
Pierced through a heart unceasing, staked vampires feel first as if the world has fallen 
upon them, a dull, immense, unyielding pressure that smothers ever part of the body 
until the slightest movement becomes impossible. Sensation vanishes next, as if the 
normal world has suddenly fallen away around them, dropping them down into an 
endless well of silence, where at last they sink into the cold waters of torpor. 
WEREWOLE: 
THE 
APOCALYPSE 
s H A P E S H I E T I N g  
Consider what happens in the most popular shift, from Homid to Crinos. Your 
bones warp, lengthen and fuse together again. Your muscles ripple under your skin, 
swelling and straining. Your flesh stretches and splits apart as your size shifts and your 
claws slice their way free. Fur grows, and each hair jabs up through the skin like a 
needle. What’s more, your senses all hit overload at once. You’re awash in smells you 
hadn’t caught, sounds you hadn’t heard, sights you couldn’t see before. The pain of 
shapeshifting is short but sharp. It’s a good pain that clears your head and sharpens 
your will. It puts all senses on alert and readies you for battle or the hunt. Most of the 
time, all of this happens in six seconds or less. Even though the damage done during 
the change heals up instantly, the experience is no less intense for it. 
And this happens every time. 
S ~ E N D I  
~ g ”  
RAG E A N D  C ~ N O S I S  
One doesn’t spend Rage so much as explode with it. It’s anger in its purest 
molten form, vented outward in burning, barely controlled pulses of fury. It gives 
you power, but it also leaves a scorched, sour taste in its wake, like the aftertaste 
of a marathon or a supremely powerful adrenaline rush. 
By contrast, spending Gnosis is the same as those rare moments where it 
suddenly feels like the Earth is breathing with you; the perfect synthesis of you 
and the world around you. When a Gift powered by Gnosis takes effect, it seems 
only natural because for the briefest instant, you and the world truly are one. 
t t  
H o w  DOES IT EEEL? 


EOUR- L ~ c j c j ~ ~  
MOBILITY 
“Running on all your legs isn’t the same as crawling on hands and knees. For one 
thing, your entire center oflalance is slung low and evenly distributed along your body, 
allowing for quick, coordinated movements, and making it very hard to budge you if 
you’re so inclined. Also, all your limbs are equally important. Tool-users that they are, 
this arrangement takes most humans a while to get used to. Sights are limited a bit by 
your lower vantage point, but the rich scents and tastes found near the ground more 
than make up for it. And there’s nothing quite like feeling fresh earth on four paws.” 
-Sasha 
Bloody-Trails, Silent Strider Ahroun 
R F ~ F N E R A T I N ~  
Like shapeshifting, regeneration is essentially a natural rather than totally 
mystical process, although it works incredibly fast. However, the Garou must endure 
all the normal unpleasantness of healing, just in a much shorter amount of time than 
others do. Bones grind and knit back together, punctured lungs drain fluid, guardian 
cells attack infections and diseases, tom muscles sew up, and new skin spreads to 
cover missing patches. It’s painful, but the pain fuels the Rage that helps the Garou 
heal. The pain is Gaia’s way of ensuring that her guardians stay as healthy as possible. 
“At first you think, ‘This is stupid, I’m just staring at my reflection,’ but then 
you feel this cold shiver down your spine, you know? And then things start to 
get really blurry, like you’re looking up at everything from underwater. There’s 
a jarring shove - 
that’s the Gauntlet - 
and then the world around you ripples, 
like someone threw a rock in the pond you were staring up from. But instead of 
everything coming back together the way it was, it comes back looking like the 
Penumbra. But that’s right too, ’cause it’s just the other side of reality, and by the 
time you realize that, hey, you’re there.” 
S TFP p I N cj SI DE WAYS 
-Eric 
Ledge-Jumper, Glass Walker Ragabash 
ATTACK IN^ SOME THIN^ W I T H  YOUR TEETH 
Teeth are the one attack both wolves and humans have in common, and 
while the human side likes claws for their reach and flexibility, the combined 
instincts in most Garou prefer to use fangs for the kill. Fangs are the most intimate 
and deadly of weapons, and when matters are personal, many Garou finish them 
with fangs. The smell of the target’s hide, the tearing punch as the teeth break 
through, the bitter taste of blood in the jaws, the grinding push of a struggling 
enemy or the pulsing twitch of a dying one - fangs seldom leave any doubts. 
CHANC~ELINC~: 
THE DREAMINC~ 
B N C O U N T E R I N ~  
S O M B T H I N ~  
BANAL 
Even from a distance, truly Banal things seem to be surrounded by a reverse 
heat haze, where instead of being all wavy and squiggly, things seem flat, colors 
are nondescript, and outlines are painfully clear. None of it has any mystery or 
charm. As one gets closer, the mouth goes dry, the stomach bubbles with low- 
level nausea, and a dull headache sets in behind the eyes, making concentration 
hard and forcing the fae to struggle for any graceful movements or clever words. 


Those who actually manage a creative act feel absurd and self-conscious, as if 
being watched by a bored and disapproving audience. 
SPEND I ~g ” LAM O U R  
“Imagine how it thrills the heart to make a wish and see it come true. Glamour 
is a wild, radiant burst of energy coursing through mind and body. Sometimes, even 
the best of us start to wonder if we can control what we’ve called up, just because 
it’s always so powerful. Even once the Glamour is spent, its fades into pleasant 
exhaustion, a sense of beauty wrested from nothing. Putting the final stroke on a 
painting, jotting down the last few notes to a song, finding the perfect closing for 
a story and relaxing after a wonderful lovemaking session are the only things that 
approach the sublime experience of Glamour’s passing.” 
( 6  
-Lady 
Casey, satyr photographer 
GAIN IN^ GLAMOUR 
Like the blood vintages of the Cainites, Glamour’s “feel” largely depends on how 
a changeling gains it. Some fae gather the dark essence found in fnghts, chills and 
nightmares, and they come to crave the icy bum of such twisted Glamour as it suffuses 
their frames. At once forbidding and as enticing as adead lover’s whisper, it flows over 
theirfleshinchillnightbreezes. Otherfaedrinkdeepofthe heady, intoxicatingpassion 
to be found in physical ecstasy, musical abandon or other headlong flights of Glamour. 
They savorthesurgingtingleofprimal joy andhappinessthataccompaniesit.Glamour 
fiomchildren’sartisoftenstickyandsweet,likesummercandy, 
while the worksofolder 
artists make up in subtlety and nuance what they often lack in immediate energy and 
vibrancy. Mortal creativity is a boundless rainbow of sensation, and no faerie ever 
experiences quite the same sensation twice. 
Whenrewarding Glamour, Storytellers should takecare toremember where it’s 
coming from, and describe it accordingly, even if only briefly. Players will think a lot 
more about spending the dreams of a good friend or an innocent class of amateur 
poets than they will if they’re simply told, “You gain three Glamour Traits.” 
BEDLAM 
“You besmocked fascists are all deluding yourselves. The colors I see are 
brighter; the sounds I hear are sweeter. The chimera aren’t afraid of me any more; 
they gather around, even here. Sure there’s some pretty strange stuff out there around 
the edges, but I don’t care. This is the world we wanted. We’ve finally won. The 
Autumn will never come now. It’s not even cold in here, surrounded by steel and the 
Dauntain. You fools. I may be a prisoner, but you’ve all failed! You’re too late.” 
-John Doe, Devereux Foundation, Kennesaw, GA 
LO SIN^ YOURSELETO 
BANALITY 
Describing this sensation is tricky, because the fae won’t remember sliding 
into Banality. That’s kind of the point, actually. For those who have a little more 
time to witness their own decline, though, the ride is no less horrifying. First, the 
colors of the chimerical world start looking bleached, the sounds come across 
flat, the once-charming scents become tired and musty. Like a receiver picking 
up two stations at once, the mortal world begins to overlap the chimerical more 
and more often. The overlap from mere flickering seconds to several minutes at 
a time, which can have predictably disastrous consequences in moments of stress 
H o w  DOES IT EEEL? 
e 


-- 
-. 
-. 
c
or drama. Worst of all, the character starts forgetting the details of his faerie life 
as Banality climbs higher. Chimera seem frightening and strange; putting names 
to faces becomes a real chore, even with close friends and oathmates; reminisc- 
ing on times past, be they good or ill, is an exercise in tearful frustration. 
Finally, the changeling can’t remember who sh is, what her place is in this 
strange world or why she’s seeing the things she is, and she simply drops out of 
the chimerical world. Her Banal mind chooses to ignore what she is no longer 
capable of understanding. 
WRAITH: 
THE OBLIVION 
~ A I N I N J L O S I N B  PATHOS 
Gaining Pathos from positive feelings can only be compared to those sublime 
moments in life when you feel like you could live on an emotion alone, that if you 
felt it any more intensely your heart would simply soar away and burst into a 
brilliant shower of fireworks. It’s a tangible pulse formed from the moment when 
you look into someone’s eyes and think to yourself, “I think I could lift the world 
and live forever, if they asked me to.” Pathos gained from negative feelings, on the 
other hand, is a concentrated morsel of the icy, rotten surge of pleasure that you 
receive when you drag a hated rival through the mud or witness the anguish on a 
former lover’s face when your words open their old wounds afresh. 
Losing Pathos is just the opposite. It’s the empty, spent feeling that comes 
when you’ve given everything you have to give, or the chill, listless void that 
replaces the heart when one’s beloved breaks the bond for the final time. 
Memory of the passion remains, at once comforting and painful, but that is all. 
~ A I N I N $  LOSING 
ANGST 
Angst gained whispers, “You have come all this way and suffered and felt 
so much, but it’s all for nothing, nothing, NOTHING.” Different from the 
energizing if wicked rush that is gained from negative Pathos, Angst is a 
crippling, burning poison of the soul. It rockets through the character like a 
bullet train of sickening despair until it reaches the deepest recesses of the heart. 
There it crashes in an explosion of defeat and shame, leaving a festering, oozing 
wound on the psyche. No matter how much Pathos you lose or gain, Angst 
remains the mocking voice of nothingness beneath it all. It laughs and reminds 
you always that come rise or fall, the void is ever watching.. . and ever hungry. 
Angst lost surpasses in intensity only a dozen or so things: an eleventh-hour 
pardon for the condemned, a joyous reconciliation for the broken-hearted, a 
Christmas armistice for the weary soldier, a child born to the previously barren. 
Regardless, the underlying truth is the same. The void can be defeated, the soul 
can triumph, and existence can be everlasting and glorious. 
STEP PIN^ T H R O U G H  SOMETHINC~ 
SOLID 
“It’s a weird mix, man. When you first touch something solid from the other 
side, there’s this really intense, really plastic feeling, like your skin’s trying to 
morph around it instead of going through. Half a second, tops, but it’s scary. You 
think you might just stretch and stretch and stretch until you just are that thing, 
you know? Then this deep, hollow feeling eats your guts, and you get the serious 


itchy-crawlies, like little spiders are walking all over you. Then poof! You’re you 
again, but a little less you, like some got left behind, you know?” 
- 
Skinny Jimmy, enfant Spook 
One moment, thoughts are flitting by normally; the next, it’s like you’re pulling 
each one fromquick-dry cement. They’re still coming, but slower and with more and 
more effort. That feeling keeps getting worse until you realize that your thoughts 
aren’t getting stuck, something else is puulng from the other side. As thoughts slide 
away faster andfaster, fearpounces, asliding, lunging, gripping terror ofquite literally 
losing your mind to this dung. You dig in as hard as you can, ripping your nails, tearing 
your mind, but at last - 
in agony- you black out.. . and wake up to a nightmare. 
Crossing into the Tempest immediately swirls the senses into adizzy blur. You can 
see sounds, smell textures and touch the darkness all around you. This disorientation 
lasts but a moment for experienced travelers, but for others it can easily prove their 
undoing. Moving is like walking at the dim bottom of a weightless sea, surrounded by 
an intangible, enveloping fluid, where sudden movements or bright lights seem alien 
and out of place. And although your other senses return to normal, the feeling of being 
able to touch the darkness around you never completely fades away. 
LOSING 
C O N T R O L T O  YOUR OTHER SIDE 
MOVINC~THROUGH 
T H E  TEMPEST 
BEING MOLIATED 
“Funny how the worst memories stick with you, even now. I remember being 
in high school, wanting so badly to fit in somewhere, but no matter what I did or 
how I tried to change, I was always rejected. I went from too fat, too prudish, too 
nerdy and too casual to being too thin, too popular, too slutty and too snobby. 
Strange as it sounds, being Moliated is a lot like that. You watch as someone else’s 
hands take your soul and twist it into whatever shape they want. It doesn’t always 
hurt - 
not physically - 
but it’s always intrusive and clumsy, like someone trying 
to add a piece to your personality by slapping it on with bricks and mortar.” 
-Karen 
Harrington, Reaper 
First contact with the skin of the mortal to be ridden is electric. There’s a 
sharp, sizzling tingle, as if the soul inside is warning off its competition. Once 
inside, it’s like being wrapped in a warm, pulsing cocoon. The sights and sounds 
of the Underworld are blessedly indistinct, as if perceived through a thin, 
breathing membrane. The sensations of the host, however, are vivid and clear, 
although they too sometimes feel as if they’re being received on a slight delay, 
which is a source of endless frustration to wraiths trying to vicariously relive the 
pleasures of mortality. 
SKINRIDING 
HUMANS 
B E I N G  
E E D P R O M B Y A  
VAMPIRE 
“When you’re bitten, you have just enough time to think, ‘Hey, that hur- 
’before the ecstasy begins. Every nerve ending is active, every sense is wide open, 
every switch is flipped to ‘YES!’ You even start feeling like your life force is 
How DOES IT EEEL? 
db 


floating right in front of you. You could reach out and actually touch your soul 
if you wanted to. Of course, that’s because the bastard is stealing it from you, and 
part of you even knows it, deep down. But it’s so beautiful, so powerful, that the 
rest of you doesn’t even care. That’s the scariest part of all.” 
-Bethany, 
former Blood Doll 
THE DELIRIUM 
“When I was sixteen, I was in a car accident. I only saw the other car right 
before it hit. Time seemed to slow down, sure, but there was still this horrible 
sinking feeling in my stomach. It was disbelief wrapped up with the knowledge 
that it really wus happening, and that I was almost certainty gonna die. That’s 
what it feels like when you see one of these monsters start changin’. It’s big, it’s 
scary, it’s all happening far too fast to be real, but deep down your instincts know 
better, ’cause they take over. There’s no bravery or retreat or thought. You just 
run until you can’t move, and you scream until your lungs want to collapse. 
Then, if you’re lucky, you’ll only remember that slow-time in your nightmares.” 
-Tasker 
Garrison, Chicago 
B E I N C ~  
BNCHANTED 
‘‘‘I~s 
magical!’ ‘It’s glorious!’ ‘It’s every dream I’ve ever had!’ Bulkhit! Like 
it or not - 
and believe me, most of the time they don’t care either way - 
you’re 
in their world, and you can’t get out until they say so. Sure, it’s not too bad at first; 
your heart races, there’s a fluttering in your stomach, and this bright, refreshing 
feeling, like you’re finally using your senses for the first time in your life. And it 
is pretty damn amazing, especially the first time, like a storybook painting come 
to life, if you’ll pardon a cliche. Trouble is, deep down you know that this story 
won’t go away when you want it to, and trust me, it doesn’t take much of creepy 
little feeling of unreality before you start sliding to the edge of the big cliff marked 
‘CRAZY.’ Especially when you remember how nasty the endings of most fairy 
tales are.” 
-Steve Rhodes, embittered Kinain 
B E I N 9  POSSESSED 
“It starts with a sudden shudder, rising from your toes and going up your 
spine and into your soul. There’s a quick, cold pain, right in your heart, and then 
it’s like you’re standing a step behind yourself. You’re just watching a movie, and 
your skin feels either too tight or too loose. You really start to know what those 
big, awkward steam shovels and cranes on construction sites would feel if they 
could feel anything. 
“Then you start hearing it. It starts talking, and you can scream and shout 
all you want, but your body doesn’t hear you. Your arms and legs just follow orders 
that aren’t yours, and you can’t even fight it. The voice doing the talking doesn’t 
hear you either. Except sometimes it does.. .. Sometimes it’s just as aware of you 
as you are of it. And sometimes it laughs when you try to fight it. 
“Please. I don’t want to talk about this anymore.” 
-Marcus 
Delacourt, shattered medium 


THFRF ARF MONSTFRS 
FVFRYWHFRF 
by Peter Woodworth 
“Catch me, Daddy! I’m flying!” 
Jessica sailed into his arms in what seemed to be cinematic slow motion, her 
long red hair and bright green sundress with its starburst pattern of sunflowers 
fanning out around her as she drifted through space. Laughing carelessly, Martin 
caught her and spun around in dizzy circles. 
“OK, that’s enough of that,” he rumbled as his own stomach started to 
protest, using his deepest Daddy voice. “I don’t want us to be all woogly before 
smile across his face. He was not as young as he used to be -not by a long stretch 
- 
and the effort and the sun had given him a nice sheen of sweat. 
“Martin!” He didn’t need to feel his wife’s hand on his a n n  to know she was there. 
On magical days like this, he thought, no one would. “Honestly, honey, I thought you 
were going to make her sick, you spun her so hard!”There was no reproach in the words, 
Carol batted at his shoulders playfully. “OK, strong guy, put me down!” 
“Why should I?” He spun faster, and she redoubled her laughter. “I could do 
“you’ll wake up Jessica!” 
Carol’svoice was hot and scandalized in his ear. He just grunted in response, 
lowering his head to kiss the warmth at the nape ofher neck. She purred, digging 
her nails into his back with luxurious ease, their beat at once sweet and merciless 
as they fulfilled each other. 
“You were saying?” He whispered, not letting up. Her only response was to 
plant her hands on his chest and roll him over, their bodies slipping exquisitely 
across the silk sheets they saved for occasions like this. His promotion, the one 
they’d been waiting for, the one that would move them from the tiny apartment 
to the house by the park they’d been talking about since before Jessica even came 
along. Two champagne flutes -both 
emptied about half an hour ago - 
stood 
on the dresser by the bed, looking almost elegant in the candlelight. “DO you 
want me to stop?” he teased, leaning up to kiss her. 
“Don’t you dare!” she hissed, pushing him back down with a wicked smile. 
She moved, and he moved with her to keep the rhythm. She glanced over her 
shoulder at the trim white bassinet in the comer where Jessica was (hopefully) still 
deep in the blessedly peaceful sleep she had slipped into at the start of the evening. 
A smile rounded her lips, the kind of smile he’d only seen since Jessica was born, 
and when she kissed him next, he could almost taste the love flowing between 
them at the infinite bridge their lips made. I? just don’t know if we should be 
this for hours, and besides, if you don’t stop making so much noise 
I I  


A face like sculpted wax loomed out of the darkness, eyes burning like twin red Fw 
candles, and Martin nodded as best he could, blinking the blood out of his good eye. 
Against his will, his pained, red-tinted gaze kept wandering to where Carol lay, not 
five feet away, her eyes gazing at him purely by chance, a thin line of blood dripping 
fromthecornerofhermouthtoagrowingpuddleonthefloor. 
Inhishead, apanicked 
voice kept repeating the same phrase over and over, in disbelief: Her head can’t be like 
that; it’s not a naturul angle. Her head can’t be like that; it‘s mt a natural angle. 
The cadence continued until he felt like screaming again. He wanted to 
scream so loud that he couldn’t hear himself anymore, inside or out. 
“If I take my hand away, will you scream again?” the candle-man asked. 
Martin shook his head and hoped he was right. “Not that it much matters 
anyway. I doubt there’ll be much wind left in you when you see this next treat 
I have in store.”The other hyenas around him laughed, savoring their prey’s fear. 
Oh God not Jessica please please God don’t let these animals take her too. God 
if there’s any mercy in Heaven please don’t please please please.. . 
There she was before him, still in her pajamas with her arms pulled behind 
her. One muscled arm cinched around her neck, and those hideous eyes burned 
just over her shoulder. She was tall and beautiful - 
his eyes, her mother’s hair, 
her very own face and form - 
and the fear in her eyes sent a fresh surge of pain 
and hatred through him. He tensed to spring, not caring about himself, but a 
dozen cold, iron hands snapped out and pulled him back. 
“Daddy?“ Jesse asked, her voice small and frightened, pleading and believing in the 
father who had once spun her around so easily to carry her away from this nightmare. 
Then the creature angled his head, opened his mouth, his obscene fangs 
long and deadly in the dim light, and Martin’s world collapsed. 
0 
0 
e 
“Sir? Sir, are you alright?” 
A hand grabbed his shoulder and shook him like a carrion-eater worrying 
a warm body for signs of life. 
Martin blinked as a face - 
woman, elderly, the head librarian if he recalled 
correctly - 
sharpened into focus. He sat up slowly, shaking his head as details of 
where and when he was started filtering back. Pittsburgh? Allentown? No, that 
had been a while ago. Philadelphia? Yes. That was it. At the public library. He 
brought his watch into view - 
6:30. So early? His body would’ve sworn it was 
midnight. The dream came back to him as well, full on, and he felt his blood 
turning cold even as his breathing grew faster. The final scene ran in an obscene 
Moebius strip motion picture behind his eyes. Too much, too much, too much.. .. 
That never happened, his inner voice of reason reminded him. 7% 
never 
happened. You’re taking their faces and putting them onto other people’s bodies, and 
you have to stop. You’re afraid - 
and you better be - 
but that never happened, and 
it never will. Carol andJessica are safe, away from this madness, just like you left 
them. Martin had given this speech to himself every time he woke up for two 
years, and it still brought tears to his eye. Left them. But he didn’t need that now. 
Besides, the litany had worked its familiar magic and he felt the tension begin 
to release its nervous grip. He began fumbling with his good hand for the sheaf 
of notes on the table; he was supposed to meet Valentine in 15 minutes. 


“Sir! Are you sure you’re alright ?” the librarian demanded. He could see in her 
eyes that she was moments away from calling an ambulance. Or maybe the police. 
Yes, Officer, there’s a suspicious-looking man here, and he seems to be having some kind 
of an episode. Well, I thought you should know because he looks like he’s been through 
a war. That’s right. He’s got an eye patch on his left eye, and his right hand is a lump of 
shiny pink meat. Dangerous? Yes, he looks very dangerous. Come right away. 
Putting on the best smile his weary heart could manage, he said, “I’m sorry, 
ma’am, I must’ve just dozed off.” With all the energy he had left, he stood up and 
stretched tired, cramped muscles. “Guess these old county records weren’t as 
fascinating as I thought, eh? Not exactly Ian Fleming, I have to say.” 
She hesitated, standing well away now that Martin was wide awake and 
standing. She gestured to the wide leather ledgers still splayed across the table, 
avoiding direct eye contact. “DO you need to look at these some more, or.. . ?” 
Martin scanned the notes he’d made. At least it looked like he’d been productive 
before he slipped off. “No, that’s OK, I think I found what I was looking for.” She swept 
up the books and was about to walk away when he called to her. “There is one more 
thing I need, actually.” The librarian stopped warily. “I thd I need to find a nice hotel 
for tonight,” he lied, smiling. “Do you have a city phone book?” 
0 
0 
0 
Valentine waited for him outside, sitting on the curb seemingly absorbed in 
watching the traffic. His tall, lanky frame was lost in a heavy overcoat that puddled 
That business trip would have been Martin’s last if not for Valentine and 
the others. They had been stalking the creature for almost as long as it had been 
stalking Martin, but its bold early-evening attack had surprised them all. 
Neither they nor Martin had any idea why it wanted him so badly - 
Martin 
hadn’t even known that such horrible things existed, much less might be looking 
for him -but his saviors never gave it a chance to explain. As a result of that 
night, Martin had lost most of one hand, one of his eyes and any chance that he 
might sleep soundly again. The others had convinced him to stay with them “for 
the time being” until they could be sure that he and his family were safe from 
further depredation. Like a revenge-bent madman, he had given up everything 
to join a group of strangers who hunted monsters. 
Yet despite everything he had given up, he was still alive now, and that 
counted for something. His family was at least marginally safe as long as they 
stayed away from him. He and his partners were successful for the most part, and 
he had not been wounded again. In fact, they had lost only one of their number 
since Martin had joined them. Regardless of the madness of their lifestyle, 
Martin knew a strange sort of security that he wouldn’t have felt had he turned 
his fellow hunters down that night a lifetime ago in Pittsburgh. 
Martin looked around - 
force of habit once the sun went down - 
and 
hurried to where Valentine was waiting for him. “I thought I was meeting you 
Characteristically, Valentine’s shrug said almost as much as his words did. 
“’Changed my mind. Didn’t feel like waiting.” He stood and brushed off the city 
at FDR Park,” he said when they joined up. 


grime, and the two of them walked to where Valentine’s car was parked. Soon, I 
they were just one more moving piece in the nightly commuter parade. Once 
they were safely underway, the young man spared him a casual sideways glance. 
“Find what you were looking for?” 
Martin held up his notebook. “Fake name, old address and even a phone 
number. Took a damn bit of digging, but I finally found a deed that hadn’t been 
buried in legalese, and it looks like he - 
it - 
still owns the place, judging by 
the listing I came across. It was about 10 years old, but what’s 10 years to one 
of these things, right?” 
I 
I 
I 
I 
4 
“Right,” Valentine said evenly. “Good job.” 
As was usually the case, Valentine faced this mission with steely equanimity. 
He never got excited before or during a hunt, he claimed, because giving in to 
excitement made him sloppy. Since what had happened in Allentown, Valentine 
never said much of anything anymore. Martin, on the other hand, remained quiet 
and outwardly calm for a different reason. The only excitement he felt on the hunt 
was the ice-water pulse of clammy fear. It took his every reserve to marshal it and 
rein it in, even though he never faced the monsters in person. 
“Hilton. Kevin and Chambers are there now. Denise and 
“So where did we wind up this time?” he asked, hoping to change the subject. 
I 
I 
1 
“Thanks.” 
1 
p‘ 
’ 
dinner. Your news should be nice for desert, yeah?” 
fingers on top of the steering wheel idly, but he might have been asleep for all 
the excitement he showed. 
The silence stretched out between them, and the song on the radio separated 
them like an invisible wall. It was nothing Martin recognized, of course, but it had 
a decent beat, so he watched the river, the city and then the busy anonymity of 
suburbia flow by, trying not to see himself reflected in the glass. 
0 
0 
0 
I 
I 
, 
“So tomorrow Denise and I will do some recon, learn the layout of the 
neighborhood, exit routes, anything else that we might need to know about,” 
Chambers began once everyone had eaten and given their reports. “Martin, I’d like 
you to go to city hall and see if you can get the plans for the building interior. Most 
I places in that area are rowhouses, though, so if you can’t find that specific one, see 
ifyoucangetaplanforthattypeofhouse. We’llstructureourstrategy to workaround 
I any alterations it might’ve made if needs be. Valentine, escort him, same as before.” 
Chambers was making his usual rounds, the casual authority they’d granted 
1 
him full in his voice. He’d been a Marine for 10 years before starting this 
ludicrous crusade, and everyone deferred to him when it came to planning an 
actual attack. “Last but not least -Kurt, you and Kevin mind holding down the 
fort while we’re away?” Sounds of agreement all around. Chambers grinned, 
reaching for the last of the lo mein. “Alright then, I’d say we’re ready to go. Nine 
1 o’clock sound good to everyone?” 
The others winced a little, but Martin and sleep were old enemies now. “Fine 
by me,” he agreed, and the others voiced their assent behind him, not wanting to 
be shown up by their oldest (and newest) member. That brought the official 
1 meeting to a close, and out came the ceiebratory alcohol. They didn’t drink too 
I much, of course, but they had enough to bring on a temporary feeling of release. 
I 


Except Martin. Pleading eyestrain from a day of paging through old records, he 
wanderedoff to bed, shrugging off their familiar pitying looks. Pour oldguy, he figured 
they were thinking. He’s crippled, and he still does m e  than his share. He didn’t want 
or need their pity. The only thing he wanted from them - 
a reliable way out of this 
insane life they led - 
was something they couldn’t give him, no matter how they 
momised to be trying to find it. No matter how much they’d done for him since he 
joined them, he Auidn.t help but hate them all a little when they pitied him. He 
wanted to go home, but they kept telling him that it wasn’t safe. They kept relying 
on him to help them while they protected him, and they tried only occasionally to 
find out what he had done to attract the ill attention of one of the undead. They 
convinced him not to leave, yet they pitied him for still wanting to. 
After lying in bed thinking along those lines for nearly an hour, Martin still 
felt nowhere near sleepy. Instead, he found himself groping through his knap- 
sack until he found the notebook he’d been using earlier that day. He flicked on 
the bedside light so he could make out his looping handwriting. 
Frank Clark, the notes read. Hmmm. Nice anonymous name for a monster 
to hide under, totally unaware that it had been discovered. Thanks to Martin’s 
dogged research, his people knew where Mister Clark lived. In 48 hours, they 
were going to make their move, and the monster didn’t even suspect. They knew 
its defenses and its disguises, and they were going to kill it. They were informed, 
armed and ready. They had been tracking this particular creature since before 
the Allentown fiasco, and they were finally in a position to strike. 
after they had left Greg behind with half his face blown off. Instead of a sleeping, 
undead monster, they had found no less than 10 armed men waiting for them, 
and Greg had been the first through the thing’s haven door. The rest of them had 
fled instantly, spattered with their comrade’s blood, bone and hair, but their 
escape was a narrow one. After everyone regrouped at the temporary safe house, 
they nearly disbanded their crusade, even over Chambers’ enraged protests. 
They would have gone their separate ways entirely if not for the fear that they 
would be hunted down individually. 
And there was truth to the fears; after Allentown, they had been unable 
to deny that at least one of the monsters was aware of who they were and was 
tracking them. Martin’s hindsight wondered at how they could’ve been so 
foolish as to be believe that word of their efforts wouldn’t travel eventually. 
Allentown had been a trap, pure and simple, and although they’d managed to 
get everyone except Greg out alive, there was no need for anyone to point out 
that they couldn’t possibly be so lucky next time. They didn’t even know what 
they’d done to give themselves away the last time, and the one who’d 
uncovered them was still out there. 
What if this is your time? the nagging voice in Martin’s mind demanded. How 
sure are you that the information you found isn’t exactly what the monster wanted you 
to find? If you don’t kill this thing that calls itself Clark, you’ll all be dead. No use in 
denying it. Even if you do destroy it, though, how long until another one picks up your 
trail? You don’t even know how many are on to you. What, you think the other 
creaturesaregoingtocorneout, shakehands, say ‘Wellplayed andlet youoffthefield? 
That’s crazy and you know it. 


Martin did know it. He had said the same to the other hunters since the 
beginning, and they just turned it around in his face as another reason that he 
couldn’t go back to his family yet. 
You’regettingold, Martin, and you’recrippkdon topofthat, hisvoice ofreason 
persisted. How mny more months can you live like this? Cold sweat beaded on his 
brow. Always looking over your shoulder for things that you might not even be able EO 
see coming at all anyway? Living on takeout food like a scavenging rat. Let’s be 
realistic, Marty old boy - 
maybe four or fiwe tops. 
“Stop it,” he whispered to himself, closing the notebook and turning over 
I 
fretfully. He knew it wasn’t too healthy, talking to himself like that, but ever 
since Greg had died he’d worked through his feelings by making them into an 
adversarial inner dialogue. Besides, if a little indulgence like this helped keep 
him mostly sane in the long term, he was more than happy to put up with it. “I’m L,- 
Don’t be an idiot. You’ll wind up dead somewhere -you and probably everyone 
with you now -and for what? Do you honestly think this little group can destroy them 
all? What will it really mean that you gave up your life for this bloody crusade? One 
that no one else even knows about anyway? Don’t try to kidme. You know the answer 
as well as I do. 
“But the others-” 
Martin rolled over, hearing the laughter and low tones 
of conversation in the room beyond. “I owe them for saving my life.” 
1 .  
doing this because it needs to be done. Because the monsters have to be stopped.” 
‘ 
I 
I 
You’we repaid any debts 10 times over. Besides, they’re as good as dead now too 
Gregwasn’tstupidorunpreparedorevenafraid, 
but he’s stilldead. It’sgoingtohappen 
to all of you. You’re not going to save the world, Martin. 
2 II r a  
C’ 
I 
I 
Martin began weeping softly, as he had so many nights before this. 
And knock that ojf. It’s distracting. Martin’s tears obediently hitched into 
shallow breaths as he listened. So you’re aU doomed, so what? It’s just time you faced 
it, that’s all. I don’t like it any more than you do, but while you just lie there and pine for 
Carol andJesse all the time, I’ve been thinking. I’ve been doing a lot of thinking, and I 
think1 might havefounda way out after all. Now listenclosely Martin, andmaybe some 
day soon you won’t need afnend like me anyme. You’ve still got the thing’s phone 
number, and your little attack isn’t going to happen for two m e  whole days.. . 
L 
11 
In the darkness, Martin listened. 
Two endless days passed. 
Recon came and went, watching the house for signs of dangers that might have 
been missed the first, second, even third time around. Chambers came up with the 
plan of attack, as usual. He, Kevin and Valentine would go through the front door, 
while Kurt and Denise swept through the back exit and Martin would wait in the 
van, which would be idling and ready to roll as soon as the last team member jumped 
in. Out of arrogance or stupidity, the monster lived alone, so they would go in before 
sundown, cut the thing’s head off and torch its home before it even woke up. 
Attacking in daylight upped their risk of being spotted and recognized, but the idea 
was preferable to that of facing one of these things after dark. Plus, they’d managed 
to avoid police entanglements thus far with no problems. 
0 
0 
0 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 


Martin smiled at all the right points, nodded when it was his turn and 
joined the team prayer with true sincerity. Denise even commented on how 
cheerful he seemed for once, and Martin simply clapped her on the shoulder 
with his healthy hand. 
“Each one we get is one step closer to going home, right?” he said, and they 
all shared a laugh at that. Valentine even grunted an affirmative, which was as 
close to hearty approval as Martin expected to get from him. 
Half an hour more passed, and Martin sat alone in a van two blocks from 
the monster’s den. The others had crept to their places at either door of the 
house, and everyone wore radio earphones to remain in contact. 
“Everybody ready? Chambers asked quietly over the crackling, staticky frequency. 
Everyone murmured assent one by one. 
the basement door creak open, and he saw the dark stairwell leading downward 
No turning back now, Martin, his voice of reason told him. Start the car. Get 
going before you find out if that thing in there changed its mind since yesterday. 
Martin started the car, but he didn’t drive away right then. Before he could 
convince himself otherwise, he folded down his radio mic and said, “I’m sorry 
everyone. There wasn’t any other way.” 
The sound of heavy-caliber gunfire cut off his comrades’ sounds of confu- 
sion and thundered in his earphone. Someone screamed - 
Chambers maybe, 
or Kevin - 
and Martin yanked the radio apparatus up off his head. He dropped 
it in his lap on top of his crippled hand, put the van in gear and peeled away in 
a smoky squeal of tires. His voice of reason congratulated him on doing the right 
thing, finally, but the tinny, small shouts coming from the earphone in his lap 
drove nails through his ears. He tossed the small piece of equipment into the 
back of the van, but even then, he believed he could still hear the confused and 
angry screams of people who have been betrayed. 
0 
Martin could’ve made it home in under six hours if he’d been driving full- 
tilt, and indeed every time he ducked off the highway to take a detour down a 
back road, his heart cursed him for delaying his reunion with Carol and Jesse that 
much longer. Reason won out, though, and his paranoid habits were just too 
strong. He hadn’t come this far just to let some two-bit flunky of “Mister Clark” 
follow him home and renege on the deal, after all. So he kept to back roads as 
often as he could, checked his rearview mirror often and otherwise turned a six- 


hour trip into a full 22-hour trek. By the end, coffee was all that kept him 
awake.. . that and the voice in the back of his head. He wondered blearily if it 
would stay with him forever, growing louder even as his current nightmares 
faded in the renewed light of family life. 
But the thoughts faded away as Martin turned off the highway for the last 
time. All he had to do was ditch the van somewhere and call a cab to take him 
home. Not a safehouse or a dingy hotel that accepted only cash. Home. His 
home. He’d need a convincing lie to explain where he’d been for so long, but he 
could think of that later. All he could think about now were two smiling faces 
he hadn’t seen in a lifetime of fear. 
smelled like? Martin couldn’t imagine, but there it was again, full force, the scent 
of his very own house and family. 
He took a step toward the staircase, but froze in sudden indecision. As happy 
as he was, should he really go upstairs right then? He’d surely scare the life out 
of his wife and daughter if he did. He looked like a monster that was falling apart, 
and that was nothing to wake up to in the dead of night. Plus, what if Carol and 
Jesse didn’t even want to see him? What if they thought he had run out on them, 
and seeing him only made them angry? The waiting was intolerable now that he 
him back. Surely they’d be glad to see him again, but maybe.. . 
“Tough call, isn’t it?” a scratchy voice said from the shadows through the 
doorway into his kitchen. At once Martin’s heart became a block of ice. He could 
actually feel the muscle clench like a stalled pendulum; pregnant with motion and 
yet unmoving. The voice was as hot as his blood was cold, and hate sparked from 
it like fire seeds drifting from a lava flow. The presence of such strong emotion was 
alien to the sound, but Martin recognized the voice immediately. 
It was Valentine. 
Well shit, Martin, his voice of reason whispered lamely. 
“Wake them up now, give them heart failure?” Valentine continued, 
coming no closer, “or sit on the porch and play with yourself until morning, 
hoping that the sight ofyou indaylight won’t drop yourpretty wife inher tracks?” 
Valentine stepped forward into the pool of streetlight illumination that 
came in through the window from outside. He clutched a thick wad of deeply 
stained cloth against his neck, and a dark beard of dried blood stained the front 
of his shirt. A long, superficial cut trailed out from under the makeshift pressure- 
bandage and split his earlobe in half. Chambers appeared in the door behind 
him, leaning on a shotgun as a crutch. A cinched belt squeezed his left leg just 
beneath the crotch, choking off a bad cut in the middle of his thigh. Both men 
came toward Martin with fire in their eyes. 
“Love of God,” Martin managed to gasp, speaking as slowly and softly as 
possible so as not to wake up his family. “I thought you were dead! Thank God 
you’re alive.” 
was actually home, but he wanted to do this right so his family would welcome 
Valentine’s eyes narrowed. 


“Don’t, old man,” he rasped fiercely. Talking screwed up his face with pain, 
but he didn’t stop. “Don’t even.” 
Chambers bumped into the banister rail and sat down on the bottom step. 
The stairs led up to Martin’s family’s bedrooms. Chambers’ eyes were glassy and 
unfocused, but he held the shotgun steadily. He propped it up on the step beside 
him and pointed the business end at Martin. 
“I’m going to kill him, Val,” the man said. 
“Quiet,” Valentine said over his shoulder. “I told you no.” 
Martin had never seen Valentine like this. Even after Greg had died, 
Valentine had showed little emotion, despite the fact that he and Greg had been 
the best of friends. He had cried with the rest of them, but he had gotten on with 
his life and his mission afterward. Now, he was a man possessed. 
‘Valentine listen,” Martin said, raising his good arm warily. “What I did-” 
“I said don’t lie to me!”Valentine shouted. Shouting ripped the inside of his 
savaged throat raw, and he coughed up a wad of bloody phlegm for his effort. 
When he spoke again, it was in a whisper. “Clark told us everything, you piece 
of shit. If you lie again, it’ll be the last thing you do.” 
“Clark?” Martin gawped. 
“Clark,” Valentine said. “Yes, he was there, waiting behind a line ofhis little 
rent-a-cop soldiers. That bastard stayed up all day waiting for us. He had an awful 
lot to say when the gunfire stopped and he was the only one left, though. He told 
us about your little phone call. He told us about Greg.” 
“Greg?” Martin whispered in horror. “What about Greg?” 
From the stairway, Chambers cocked the shotgun viciously and half rose 
from his seated position. The end of the barrel wobbled, but it pointed mostly 
in Martin’s direction. Valentine glared angrily at Chambers, while Martin 
looked with rabbit eyes, but Chambers stood his ground. 
“I’m going to do it,” he said. “He’s lying.” 
“Put it down,” Valentine hissed at his partner. “Now.” 
Chambers hesitated for a long time then finally sank back down on the step. 
He still pointed the shotgun at Martin, though. 
“I told you, Martin,” Valentine said. His voice layered anger over a barely 
noticeable hint of sorrow. “Don’t lie to us. Clark told us everything before we put 
him down. He told us about how you set us up in Allentown and again yesterday. 
We know everything already.” 
“Allentown?” Martin said. His jaw hung down, and ice ran in his 
veins. “I didn’t have anything to do with Allentown. I don’t care what 
Clark told you, Valentine.” 
Valentine just shook his head. “I almost want to believe you, old man. But 
that’s what got us here. It’s really amazing how many of us you got rid of before 
we figured you out.” 
“Valentine, please,” Martin said desperately. “You’ve got to believe me.” 
“We already made the mistake,” Valentine said. “We’re not listening any more.” 
He went over to the stairwell and helped Chambers to his feet. 
Chambers wobbled dangerously, and Valentine had to strain to support 
him. They stood and made their way slowly back toward the kitchen and 


the house’s back door. Martin stood mute in shock then took a tentative 
step toward the two wounded men. 
“Where are you going?” he asked. “What are you going to do?” Why had 
they even come, if not to kill him? 
“Nothing,” Valentine said thinly, breathing heavily in his effort to keep 
Chambers moving. The light had gone out of Chambers’ eyes, but he shuffled 
forward zombie-like anyway. The shotgun hung limply from his hand by the 
trigger guard that had caught around his finger. “We’re leaving. If you’re smart, 
you’ll do the same.” 
“What?” Martin walked over and grabbed Valentine by the arm. “What 
are you saying?’ 
Valentine shook free, nearly dropping Chambers as he did so. ‘Ws the best 
chance you’re going to get,” he said. “And it’s better than you deserve. We 
thought Clark was lying about you, but we looked through his stuff before we left. 
He had your name and address and everything else he might want to know about 
you printed out in his records. When the rest of the bloodsuckers come looking 
for him, they’re going to find out about you, and they’re going to come looking 
for some answers. They’re going to come here first, you can be sure.” 
“But.. . my family,” Martin said helplessly. “I’ve got to-” 
“They’re not here,” Chambers mumbled, seeming to fight for every second 
“What?” 
Valentine scowled at his wounded comrade, but he turned back to Martin 
‘Where are they?” Martin half demanded, half pleaded. After what he’d 
“We moved them after you joined up with us.” 
T h a t ? ”  Martin said again stupidly. The muscles in his knees tried to stop 
working, and he had to lean against the doorjamb just inside the kitchen. 
“We didn’t tell you because we didn’t want you running out to try and see 
them before we figured out why the bloodsucker was stalking you in Pittsburgh,” 
Valentine said. “Once we took care of that one, we were going to take you to see 
them. We couldn’t risk it before then, though. That’s how we work.” 
of consciousness. “Dumb shit.” 
with a pained sigh. “They’re not,” he confirmed at last. 
done and how far he’d come.. . 
Martin started crying, and Valentine snorted in disgust. 
“They’re not here?” he said, mainly to himself. 
“Better follow their example,” Valentine said. He said it without turning 
back, now that he had gotten Chambers moving again. He paused at the back 
door just long enough to open it, but even then, he didn’t look back. “You’d best 
get going now, Martin. There are monsters everywhere, and they know where 
you are. And if I ever see you again.. ,” 
Valentine finished the threat and carried Chambers the rest of the way 
outside, but Martin didn’t hear it. He also didn’t hear the sound of Valentine’s 
car pulling away into the night. He couldn’t even enjoy the silence now that he 
was alone in what had been his home. His voice of reason was far too loud in his 
ears. It laughed and laughed, drowning out all other sounds. 


ANTAGONISTS THAT MATTFR 
d 
by David Tancredi 
Regardless of its scope, depth or genre, every story has the same basic 
ingredients. Each tale follows a viewpoint character. Every character strives to 
attain some goal. Some obstacle always stands in the way of any worthwhile goal. 
The action of any story that can rightly call itself a story includes the character 
overcoming the obstacle in order to achieve his goal. In many stories- especially 
in stories told through live-action roleplaying - 
the obstacle in question is 
represented by a dynamic, thrilling antagonist. An antagonist makes an obstacle 
of himself by either striving to reach the viewpoint character’s goal first himself or 
by doing everything he can to keep the viewpoint character from reaching it at all. 
Creating thrilling adversaries on a regular basis isn’t easy, though. It takes 
time to develop an opponent that can challenge players. Care must be taken to 
ensure that antagonists don’t overrun the current story, overpower the troupe 
or draw the spotlight away from players. When you, as a Storyteller, bring an 
antagonist to life successfully, you add an intriguing new personality to the game. 
One that will inspire interest in the current story and attract new players. 
In recent years, a large number of types of antagonist have been converted 
to the Mind’s Eye Theatre system. Storytellers can choose from a variety of 
denizens of the World of Darkness and inject into their games whichever ones 
work best for the story. While it’s hardly exhaustive, the following list shows 
gives advice on how to use the various types of antagonists to their best effect in 
your live-action chronicles. 
(Keep in mind, though that what type of monster an antagonist is shouldn’t 
be what carries its importance to the story. A strong antagonist will carry itself 
whether it’s a Sabbat vampire, a Spectre, a fomori or a mortal. A poorly 
conceived antagonist will not be redeemed as a story ingredient just because it 
is Kuei-jin or a Pentex employee. Determining the type of antagonist to use is 
one of the last steps in the creation process, and many other choices must be 
made long before any statistics get written.) 
VAM 
p I R E S  
CAMARILLA 
A N D  SAB 
B A T  
One of the main conflicts that exists in aLaws of the Night chronicle is that 
between the Camarilla and the Sabbat sects. The ideologies of these two societies 
are completely incompatible. The Sabbat revels in its inhumanity and believes 
firmly that the Camarilla is a front for the manipulations of the Antediluvians. 
Alternatively, the Camarilla is convinced that vampires can survive the Final 
Nights by hiding behind the Masquerade and holding onto some semblance of 
humanity. On a more base level, Camarilla and Sabbat vampires oppose each 
other for resources like territory and food. Whoever controls the distribution of 
food in a given area retains the power, and the sects come together internally more 
to protect their resources than to butt heads over ideological disagreements. 
That aside, however, vampires are nothing if not masters of self-delusion. 
Centuries of conflict and top-down micro-management have created loneheld 


stereotypes in each sect about the other. Since the Anarch Revolt centuries ago, 
surviving Camarilla elders have been telling their new childer that the Sabbat 
are honorless hooligans who crave only elderblood and reprehensible diablerie. 
Conversely, the Sabbat have always preached that participants in the Camarilla’s 
system feudal slavery are hypocritical pawns of the Antediluvians who would 
just as soon throw a beloved childe to the wolves as defend themselves and their 
childer. These impressions are set so firmly in the vampiric experience, that they 
affect the way Sabbat and Camarilla antagonists react to members of their rival 
sect. While slavish devotion to type becomes predictable and boring, a Story- 
teller would be remiss to discount these impressions out of hand. 
Sabbat vampires believe that they are monsters, but it is important not to 
treat them as that alone. Sabbat packs are more than tools to incite combat. 
Only physically oriented characters get involved in senseless fighting, and 
encouraging too much of that kind of conflict alienates the players who prefer 
less overt pursuits. As an antagonist force, the Sabbat is a much more complex 
and organized sect than would seem apparent from the behavior of the average 
War Party. With proper preparation, Sabbat vampires can creep subtly into a 
Camarilla city, and then overrun it when the time is right. While their methods 
and perspective are different, canny Sabbat elders understand the value of using 
Influence and manipulation against their mortal herds. They also know how to 
attack the holdings and resources of their enemy in such a way that leaves him 
powerless before an assault. Carefully staged attacks of Sabbat rabble-rousers 
draw attention away from more subtle and insidious maneuvers. Those players 
that decide to refrain from combat still have an opportunity to interact with the 
story by discovering the real motivation for an attack. Those Camarillists who 
have been treated poorly by the Camarilla hierarchy must also test their faith 
against cunning Sabbat recruiters who would rather make allies than enemies. 
Camarilla vampires make equally compelling antagonists as well. They do 
not bide their time in their lavish havens, sitting in repose and drinking 
bloodewyne. Nor do they sit idly by while Sabbat vampires assault their cities. 
They fortify their havens, manipulate mortal forces within cities for their 
defense and even engage in counter-strikes against invading vampires. In 
securing resources and expanding their power base, ambitious (or ballsy) 
Camarilla Kindred are not averse to invading Sabbat territory themselves. They 
do so differently (i.e., far more subtly) than Sabbat invaders do, but the threat 
is still very real. Defeating a Camarilla antagonist takes perception, wit, 
determination and ferocious cunning. 
K I N D R E D O E T H E  
EAST 
A new enemy marches against the children of Caine in the World of 
Darkness. The Kuei-jin from the opposite side of the world have existed for ages 
behind aveil of secrecy, but now they have begun to make their move on western 
vampiric territory. When compared to Kindred and Sabbat, these Eastern 
vampires have a radically different philosophy on their place in the world. They 
feed differently, they relate to one another differently, and they exist for a 
purpose that few western vampires can understand. Kuei-jin consider western 
vampires barbaric and self-absorbed heathens without a proper respect for their 
place in the world. Kin-jin who are aware of the existence of the Kindred of the 


appropriately, of course, in order to do it justice beyond the stereotype. 
INEBRNALISTS 
Infemalist vampire characters make occasional appearances in live-action 
vampire games as antagonists as well. The topic of Infemalism helps players and 
Storytellers explore issues of absolute good and evil, especially when the story calls 
for a clear distinction between the two. Vampires of both sects and even the Kuei- 
jin all have problems with those who have sold their souls to Hell’s legions, and 
Infemalists themselves have few redeeming qualities. Allied with the legions of 
Hell, an Infemalist can truly put a character’s faith and conviction to the test. 
Unfortunately, conflicts against Infemalists reflect the broader issues of spiritual- 
ity, humanity, corruption and common evil poorly. When an antagonist starts 
sprouting horns and singing the praises of Satan, it’s pretty easy to see what side 
she’s on. While opposing evil for the sake of opposing evil does make for a fun 
game, you can tell a more compelling and intense story by blurring the absolute 
boundaries of morality and forcing characters to choose where they stand. 
9 
B N E  R I C  VAMP 
I R E  ANTAC~ONI 
STS 
Regardless of their internecine distinctions, vampires make great antagonists 
just by virtue of being monsters. Boiled down to their essential story elements, 
vampires are undead monsters who drink human blood. They represent humanity’s 
fear of the dark and of the dark places in the human mind itself. While they seem 
human and even genteel to casual inspection, an uncontrollable feral half lurks 
behind the predatory gleam in their eyes. They’ll stop at nothing to make themselves 
safe and keep themselves fed. This self-serving determination and ruthless instinct 
makes vampires of all stripes femme and deadly opponents in any chronicle. 
W E  
REWO LVE s 
In many werewolf chronicles, Fomori, Black Spiral Dancers, Banes and 
other Wyrm-spawn get lumped under one banner mistakenly. It’s important to 
look at each type of antagonist a werewolf character might face, in order to use 
it to its best effect in a story. You should also keep in mind that “minions of the 
Wyrm” are not the only compelling antagonists out there. 
BLACK SPIRAL 
DANCERS 
As former members of the Garou Nation, Black Spiral Dancers have an 
intimate understanding of werewolf culture and lore. They know how to invoke 
fear in a steadfast Ahroun, and they can corrupt the purest Silver Fang. Black 
Spirals are not howling beasts that rise up from their tunnels, attack without any 
strategy, then retreat back into the dark. Black Spiral Dancers are some of the 
most cunning and dangerous adversaries a werewolf can face. They’re able to 
utilize every resource a Garou can access with the added support of the Wyrm. 
They fight in packs, they organize, and they are just as skilled in seductive 
spiritual corruption as they are in physical combat. Worse yet, they are arguably 
A N T A ~ O N I S T S  
THAT MATTEB 


more focused on their Wyrm-given spiritual mission than many uncorrupted 
Garou are in Gaia’s defense. Converting and cleansing a Black Spiral Dancer of 
his taint is far more difficult than corrupting a Rage-filled Garou who’s sick and 
tired of fighting of what seems a losing battle. 
PENTEX 
Agents and supporters of the Wyrm-ridden Pentex corporation are enemies 
that many Garou aren’t prepared to deal with. The company exists to spread the 
taint of the Wyrm to the common man by wrapping it up in attractive packages. 
The company provides modem luxury and convenience with nary an apparent 
down-side, and yet every product carries a subtle hint of the Corrupter’s taint. 
But how does one fight tooth and claw against paper and marketing? Even 
connected Glass Walkers have difficulty dealing with this corporate monstros- 
ity. Eager young recruits flock to Pentex every year in hopes of a good, 
high-paying job. Even if werewolves manage to take out a Pentex lackey, scores 
more are waiting to fill the void of his passing. Even if werewolves put a stop to 
one villainous goal on a Pentex agenda, numerous contingencies and other goals 
exist to see that the Wyrm’s work is done. As long as the corporation exists, 
werewolves’ work to keep the Wyrm in check will never be finished. 
The most compelling reason to use Pentex antagonists, however, is for the 
moral dilemma they represent. Pentex and its subsidiaries have touched every 
modern convenience in the World of Darkness, many of which homid-born 
Garou have relied upon all their lives. From the power that runs the lights at 
night to the plastic bristles on the tip of a toothbrush, Pentex products make life 
easier. So what if a few trees are cut down or the carbon ratio rises in the 
atmosphere? And what does it benefit apackor sept of Garou to remove Pentex’s 
influence entirely from an area, only to have the bereft citizens of that area riot 
andrevolt over its absence?Astory involvinga Pentex antagonist forces a troupe 
to examine how far werewolf characters are willing to go in their holy war against 
the designs of the Wyrm. 
E O M O R I  
The much-maligned fomori are generally of small consequence in a live- 
action werewolf chronicle. They’re not strong enough individually to take on a 
Crinos Ahroun, but groups of them can still cause plenty of trouble. Alas, orcs 
in fantasy games get more character development than fomori. Fomori are 
tortured souls that go through unimaginable suffering. They’re desperate to 
survive in a world where their own lives have no value. This desperation makes 
them truly dangerous. Fomori can become versatile antagonists. They can be 
molded with different powers and abilities to get any job done. It is important 
not to overlook the usefulness of fomori when creating long-term opponents 
against the Garou. 
SPIRITS 
Many different types of spirits exist in the Umbra. A few are helpful, others 
are mischievous, and even more aid the Wyrm’s corruption. Spirits fill specific 
niches in the Umbral ecology, and their story utility is more that of obstacles 
rather than specific antagonists. 


Most spirits do not set out to wreck characters’ goals on purpose, but ma 
spirits oppose said goals just by virtue of what kind of spirits they are. A tot( 
spirit may disagree with the actions of a sept and try to enact some form 
punishment. A Wyld-spirit may attempt to stop a pack from completing a qu 
just because. A Weaver-spirit might attack interlopers in the Umbra and mz 
them part of the Pattern Web just to cut down on the unacceptable randomnc 
Spirits also have many different levels of power. Some spirits have exisl 
for eons, and can be more than a match for a wise elder. Spirits are neitk 
subservient nor automatically indebted to the Garou. Without the aid a 
powers of the spirit world, the Garou would be lost. Spirits teach rites and Gi: 
and they empower fetishes and talens. They must be propitiated and cham 
in order to convince them to be of assistance. Numerous stories can abound fr( 
the interaction between werewolves and spirits. A werewolf troupe has dc 
nitely gone awry when it views spirits as weak or easily duped Gnosis batteri 
0 
T H E  R WEREWOLVES 
Even with all of these forces working against them, werewolves are th 
own worst enemy. For centuries, the tribes have quarreled over territory, ra 
and prestige, and a complex system for resolving conflicts and disputes has gro 
from this bickering. When passions run so high among creatures to whc 
dominance and position are of paramount importance, conflict is sure to ari 
Creating rivals from within the ranks of a sept gives Storytellers t 
opportunity to explore social and political issues. The way in which Gal 
crusade is carried out is just as important to some Garou as the crusade itself, a 
disagreements of that nature have raged as long as the Garou have. Garou hz 
always had trouble compromising on issues of how far they are willing to go a 
what amount of carnage equals an acceptable casualty figure. While t 
infighting distracts the Garou from their Gaia-given role on Earth, it makes 
wonderful dramatic tension in a long-running chronicle. 
9 E N  E R I c WE 
R E  w o L E ANTAC~ 
o N I ST s 
Werewolves are terrifying opponents in any chronicle. They live in i 
woods, practice bizarre rites, eat flesh and fly into berserk rages of bloc 
destruction with little provocation. They’re supernaturally strong and resilie 
but even still they travel in packs. Fury bubbles inside them, waiting for the fi 
opportunity to explode. As story ingredients, werewolves represent all 1 
unreasoning violence “out there” in nature that has frightened city-dwell. 
men and women for so long. Furthermore, they seem bent on destroying so mL 
of what makes human life bearable for what it is. When you don’t understand 
or find yourself on the wrong side of - 
the holy mission that drives World 
Darkness werewolves, these beasts are horrifying to behold. 
MAC~ES 
THE 
TECHNOCRACY 
The future of humankind is intricately linked with reason, technology a 
progress, and Technocrats work day and night all over the world to see that tl 
link remains unbroken. They hold that order and science can explain the wo 
~ 
~~ 
ANTAC~ONISTS 
THAT MATTER 


1 
and make it safe for humanity in perpetuity. The magic they engage in involves 
convincing the Masses that this view is correct and demonstrating as much 
through technological advances and miracle breakthroughs in all fields of 
science. Since its inception, the Technocracy has done a superb job of making 
the people of Earth accept its paradigm. 
Despite its noble goals, however, the Technocracy is responsible for agents 
who make compelling antagonists. Part of creating a worldwide consensual 
paradigm lies in enforcing that world-view, which calls for the containment and 
“correction” of any element that defies that view. Unfortunately, all supernatural 
creatures are unacceptable divergences from the norm, and Reality Deviant mages 
are even less welcome. The very existence of the supernatural defies scientific 
codification, and as such, it must be eliminated from the consensual reality. 
In fact, anyone who opposes the Technocratic paradigm (or any part of it) 
must eventually be eliminated from the consensus. The Technocratic vision for 
the future is one of complete conformity and cooperation, in which everyone is 
safe and well cared for thanks to the infallible arms of science. 
Generic Technocrat antagonists include field operatives who prowl in search 
of “unacceptable” levels of deviance from the paradigmatic norm, Control 
scientists who must test their theories and creations on expendable samples of the 
population and less-than-human constructs created to supplement the efforts of 
the other two. For the most part, Technocrat antagonists are more concerned with 
the bottom line and the greater good than the needs of the individual. In the 
Utopian future, the individual has no significance anyway, right? 
THE 
TRADITIONS 
The Traditions have grown their own fair share of monsters. Greed and 
power are strong motivators among Awakened willworkers. Without proper 
apprenticeship, proud mages are more likely to abuse their magic regardless of 
the consequences. Even experienced mages cause trouble when their spells fail 
spectacularly or they simply feel like flexing their mental muscles. 
What’s more, many Tradition mages are caught up in the age-old Ascension 
War. They stand up against Technocratic “tyranny” and assert that humanity 
has just as much a right to accept and rely on the Supernatural as they do on 
science. Humans should be allowed to make up their own minds and open 
themselves up to the infinity of possibility that True Magic offers. As such, 
however, these mages are forced to take on people’s long-held reliance on the 
foundation of scientific thought, and they have to rock the boat constantly. 
Characters who are comfortable with the status quo don’t usually appreciate 
actions that amount to terrorism for its own sake. 
Further compounding the problem is the fact that not every magical 
Tradition agrees on what would make an ideal world. Each Tradition does magic 
in a different way, some of which are opposed to each other directly. Inter- 
Tradition maneuvering for advantage in the Ascension War can generate just 
as much conflict as the war itself. Especially as older mages realize more and more 
clearly that the war to which they’ve given so much of themselves is all but 
hopeless. These embittered spell-weavers have grown desperate and canny, 
which makes them all the more dangerous. 


MORTALS 
An antagonist doesn’t need supernatural powers to be an awesome foe. In 
many situations, a human with the right amount of influence, abilities and 
money is much better suited to achieve a goal than a supernatural creature. 
Humanity is the force that runs the World of Darkness, and supernatural 
creatures all exist outside that force. Humans have numbers as well. A large 
industrial city could hold 40-50 vampires, but a mortal crime lord could have 
hundreds of people working for him alone. While one human being isn’t much 
of a threat to, say, a rampaging werewolf, a large group of smart, well-armed 
human beings who have time to plan can put a careless werewolf in a world of 
hurt. Any vampire who wants to stake a claim on a citywide sphere of influence 
must first deal with the humans who make it up. No supernatural creature can 
afford to discount the power humanity has over the modem world. 
C RBATI o N C ~ U  
I DE LI N E  s 
When creating an antagonist for any genre or any chronicle, it’s important 
to give him areal personality. His personality determines how he does things and 
why and what lengths he’s willing to go to. An enemy who’s an enemy for the 
sake of enmity isn’t compelling or memorable - 
he’s a monster of the week. 
Creating a complete person as an antagonist, one with whom some characters 
can even sympathize, will establish that antagonist in the players’ memory as a 
character rather than a collection of Traits with which to play Rock-Paper- 
Scissors. Using the following guidelines will get you started. 
MOTIVATION 
IN- CHARACTER 
MOTIVATION 
Defining the motivation of an antagonist is the first step in his develop- 
ment. The motives can be simple greed, envy, lust or self-preservation, or they 
can be complex and hidden behind a web of deceit. The antagonist could be the 
unwitting pawn of a greater force, or he may be the greater force himself. 
Whatever the case is, the antagonist has no purpose without a motive. Real 
people do things for reasons, no matter how bizarre, and the same is doubly true 
for characters in stories. An antagonist’s purpose in a story is prevent the 
characters from reaching their goals, but he does not do so just for the sake of 
doing so. His reasons for opposing the characters are what make him memorable 
as a character in his own right. 
The motives also define the antagonist’s targets. It’s important to recognize 
early in the creation process which opponents an antagonist will face. For 
example, a vampiric Anarch bent on wreaking havoc in a Camarilla domain 
may have to worry about the prince’s sheriff and deputies. By listing targets 
ahead of time, the antagonist can prepare for future conflicts. The motivations 
of an antagonist help determine its targets as well. A simple lupine-hunting 
Gangrel vampire should know better than to rush into a caern’s bawn and throw 
down with the Warder. An Amalgam of Technocrat agents isn’t going to pursue 
vague suspicions that City Hall is run by vampires when the agents have veryreal 
proof that Reality Deviant mages are blowing up cancer-research laboratories. 


Declaring the motivations of an antagonist helps determine its power level 
as well. An enemy who’s too strong for some might be too weak for others in the 
same game, especially as the number of players gets larger. After creating a set 
of specific motives, think about how much power the antagonist needs to meet 
those goals. Does a character need Methuselah-level vampiric Disciplines to 
stake his claim on the underworld? More likely, several levels of Influence and 
the appropriate Abilities would be sufficient. 
Don’t go overboard assigning an antagonist’s power level as per his motiva- 
tion. Make antagonist characters powerful enough to have areasonable eqectation 
of achieving their goals; don’t stack powers upon powers to make the villain’s 
victory a sure thing. Players deserve a fighting chance to overcome their 
adversary, after all. That’s where the action and drama in any good story comes 
from. The contest has to be close and always in question until the very end, 
otherwise you won’t be able to maintain the players’ characters’ interest. 
O U T - O f -  C H A R A C T E R  MOTIVATION 
Popular opinion states that Storytellers create antagonists only to torment 
players. While that is an amusing benefit of the position, it is not the sole reason 
for including adversarial characters. Storytellers have their own motivations 
outside of the needs of the story for incorporating antagonists in play. 
Each setting in the World of Darkness works on many levels and has a rich 
background. It is impossible for a Storyteller to incorporate everything in a 
game, no matter how large the LARP is. However, antagonists can draw 
attention to certain aspects of a setting that may have been neglected up to that 
point. In a Laws of the Wild chronicle, for instance, spirit antagonists focus a 
player’s mind on the Umbra as more than just an othenvorldy duck blind or 
shortcut, while Kinfolk antagonists deal with issues of community and fellow- 
ship. When a theme has been missing from a game for too long, an antagonist 
can bring it back to the forefront. Furthermore, an antagonist can emphasize the 
core concepts within a setting by introducing players to ideas and possibilities 
they wouldn’t normally consider. 
Other than directing the flow of agame as a whole, antagonists can alter the 
course of individual players and characters. By setting up situations that force 
characters to make tough decisions, an antagonist can direct the development 
and direction of certain players’ characters. If done well, players won’t even 
realize that their characters are being set up to follow a particular path. 
Interacting with carefully selected types of antagonists can mold a player’s 
behavior too. Given the option of butting heads against an antagonist or taking 
a less attractive but easier route to success, most players choose the easy way out. 
Guiding players isn’t always a desirable option, but it can become necessary 
when they’re about to perform an act that would disrupt the game for everyone 
else. Some players chafe at any type of restraint or scripting of events, but it goes 
on all the time with players being none the wiser. Guidance and scripting are 
out-of-game keys to preventing long-running games from degenerating into 
chaos, and antagonists are excellent in-game tools for doing so. 
Antagonists are also good devices for introducing new, misused or unused 
system mechanics into a game. Having an antagonist exploit a game mechanic 
promotes the system in question and make her more difficult to defeat by conven- 


tional methods. Virtue Tests, for example, are new to many Laws of the Night 
games. An antagonist who watches a chronicle’s vampire characters, learns their 
habits and sore spots, then uses that information to play with the vampires’ minds 
in hopes of inciting self-destructive frenzies would present the system to players by 
forcing them to use it. Knowledge and understanding of these rules will then spread 
slowlyuntil they are commonknowledge. Given time, playerswillcome to recognize 
these unfamiliar systems, freeing Narrators to work on other aspects of the game. 
The only caveat about using antagonists in game to pursue out-of-game 
motivations is to do so responsibly. While it is fair to plague a mage character 
with the persistent attentions of an Amalgam of Technocrats when he’s going 
crazy shooting fireballs around in public with no regard for safety or secrecy, it’s 
not fair to create antagonists that hound a particular character just because you 
think his player’s a jerk. Even if that player is a jerk, it’s still not fair to pick on 
him. It’s also a bad idea to punish players’ characters with inordinately powerful 
bad guys because you think the players are playing their game the “wrong” way. 
Always be fair when using in-game antagonists for out-of-game reasons. 
After determining the character’s motivation, it’s time to begin laying out 
the particulars. Antagonists are people too, and they deserve to have as much 
attention lavished on them as any player’s character. What’s tricky about this 
stage of creating an antagonist is that it seems to fall out of sequence. You should 
determine the antagonist’s goal (i.e., his motivation) first so you’ll know where 
to put him in the story. Then, you have to go buck and create a background that 
logically leads up to the character’s present state of mind. 
A detailed background is key to making the character appear realistic. It’s 
the foundation on which everything about the antagonist is based. The 
background shapes the motivations, tactics, attitudes and appearance of the 
antagonist. Without a background to tie all of these sections together, the villain 
won’t be muchof acharacter at all. Players won’t be able to understand how their 
foe has developed if he’s just sprung half-formed from your mind into the game. 
If players can’t understand their opponents, they certainly will not relate to 
them or be able to interact with them in the meaningful, memorable ways you 
intend. What’s more, the person playing the antagonist will be lost without a 
good sense of what made the character what he is. 
TACTICS 
When you’re plotting out what role an antagonist will play, you also need to 
specify the ways an antagonist will pursue her goals. An antagonist can be 
confrontational or subtle. She can take the hands-on approach or work through 
lackeys behind the scenes. The tactics a character uses depends on her motives, 
her targets and especially her abilities. An apostate troll is not going to walk into 
a sidhe baron’s court and start randomly blasting away at the courtiers with twin 
Colt .45s just so he can send everyone back home to Arcadia. He’d know that that 
is no way to accomplish his goal successfully. Define clearly the risks an antagonist 
will take in pursuit of her motives. Antagonists don’t work in a vacuum either. 
Who are they willing to deal with and what can they offer potential allies? Does 
the antagonist need a clear victory, or is partial success acceptable? 


r 
Try also to figure out what opposition the protagonists in your story will 
provide the antagonist. Every good villain has contingency plans for the day his 
schemes run awry. Assassins prepare multiple escape routes in the event that one 
is compromised. Lawyers prepare multiple arguments against one another when 
they battle in court. Technocrat agents study their enemies’ SOPS and arm 
themselves accordingly. Put yourself in the mind of your antagonist and figure 
out what sort of friction he can reasonably expect from those who are likely to 
stand in his way. Then prepare him to face that friction to the best of his ability. 
(You should also consider out of game what friction your antagonist 
character will face from the players themselves. Will they be resentful of being 
beaten on occasion by a more powerful foe? Are certain players likely to shoot 
first and ask questions later, thus shafting your grand scheme before it begins? 
Will they accuse you of picking on them? Take all these considerations into 
account when you’re making up an antagonist so you’ll be prepared for the 
players’ response. Don’t be afraid to send an antagonist into game just because 
the players won’t like it - 
they’re not supposed to like being challenged in 
pursuit of their goals- but use your antagonists responsibly so that everyone can 
still have fun.) 
p RES e NTATI o N 
One of the most overlooked components in creating an antagonist is the 
presentation. The performance of those playing the antagonist is generally given 
little thought. However, poor attention to the acting details can be the downfall 
of an otherwise great adversary. When players meet their opponent for the first 
time, they’re not going to see the hours you spent creating his background and 
motivations. The players are not going to know about the nefarious plots set 
against them. All they’ll have to go on is the first impressions the new character 
makes. The word “theatre” wasn’t inserted into the title of the game system 
accidentally, after all. With the proper amount of practice, several tools can help 
convey a convincing Performance. Two of the most important tools that are 
often overlooked are the character’s voice and his mannerisms. 
Start with thevoice. By choosingavoice, the antagonist has akeyfeature that 
distinguishes it from other characters. Speak in a higher or lower tone. Add a 
foreign accent if it’s appropriate. Other than the sound of the voice, the way one 
speaks is often noticeable. No one speaks perfect English, French or German for 
that matter unless he has a reason for paying attention to his verbal grammar. A 
person that has lived in the inner city will often have adifferent sentence structure 
and vocabulary than a character from suburbia. Think about a character’s 
background and consider how his life experiences make his voice distinctive. 
Paying attention to characters’ mannerisms is another facet of acting. Does 
the character have a limp or other physical discrepancy from the norm? Does she 
twitch when she gets nervous or pace when she’s forced to wait? Did that limp 
the maniacal hunter walks with come from his first confrontation with a 
rampaging monster? Is that why he hunts monsters in the first place? Does that 
vampire smoke cigarettes like Andrew Dice Clay because he thinks it’s cool or 
because doing so reminds him of the one comedian who’s still able to make him 
laugh since his violent embrace? Even a character’s most minor quirks come 
from somewhere, and making them noticeable makes the character’s themselves 


memorable and real. What’s more, some quirk or odd habit might just holc 
key to defeating the antagonist in the end. 
GUIDELINES 
If you’re not portraying the antagonist you’ve created, make sure to sit d 
with the player or Narrator taking on the role and sketch out some guide11 
Guidelines should be simple, one-sentence explanations on how to rea( 
common situations, and these explanations should all be grounded in 
character’s history and motivation. While there’s really no wrong way 1 
player to play a protagonist character, an unprepared player can defin 
portray an antagonist character incorrectly. If you have specific out-of-g 
plans for what you want an antagonist to accomplish, make sure you spell t 
out to the person portraying the character for you. While the idea of maintai 
strict control of a LARP is patently ludicrous, you should certainly take 
proper steps to keep it moving in the right general direction. 
S TATI STI c s 
Once you’ve gone to all the preceding trouble, declaring the statistics fo 
antagonist should now be relatively easy. All of the previous steps in creation1 
built up to this point. The general power level, techniques, experiences 
motivations of the character outline the stats. All that is left is to have t 
explicitly written down on a character sheet. As far as this aspect of antagc 
creationgoes, you can check inanyhws of... book‘s Character Creationcha 
With so many steps in the creation process, it may seem if buildin 
antagonist takes a lot of work. Antagonists aren’t characters that can be wri 
in a couple minutes. They’re a precious resource requiring a large investme 
time and ingenuity. An antagonist is a long-term character that can hope 
appear in several stories or many game sessions within a single story. Y 
preparation and effort, some truly insidious fiends can be concocted, as 
lasting characters that will carve a niche in their troupe and electrify a g2 
~~ 
A N T A ~ O N I S T S  
THAT 
MATTEB 


M I N D  
Lo 
New Orleans Nightfall; 
Mark Leberecht, FrostC -,.,.., 
(504) 943-9814 
M ABY LAN D 
Ray of Blood; Baltimore, MD 
Ed Adelsbergermailto:edla@erols.com , edla@erols.com 
1 
i 1/ 
1 
1 
:t 
1 
.I 
kitae Neternus; Hyattsville, MU 
MASSACHUSETTS 
House of the Crescent Moon; Boston, MA 
giovanni@c ybercom.net 
Severed Sun; Boston, MA 
Sean Donnelly 
(617) 576-1097 
(617) 656-2891 
M I S S O U R I  
Coterie of the Crimson Night; St. Louis, MO 
Jamie Schneider, jaclon@juno.com 
Impiorum Pecatta (“Sins of the Damned”); Warrensburg, MO 
Storyteller: Jason Hibdon, eugee@cyberjunkie.com 
http://www.cyberjunkie.com/eugee 
(314) 837-3640 
N E B R A S K A  
Ebon Seraph; Omaha, NE 
davosburgh@aol.com 
NEVADA 
Blood Moon Social Club; Las Vegas, NV 
http://www. bloodmoonsocialclub.com 
(702) 877-1813 
60 


2 N T  H O B I Z O N :  U P C O M l N q  L A R P  EVENTS 
N o a T H  C A R O L I N A  
Libertas Aetema; Charlotte, NC 
Tim Harris, harrist@cs.winthrop.edu 
O H I O  
Blood Masks: Cincinnatus By Night; Cincinnati, OH 
Brian-Joseph Baker, Elomae@aol.com 
513-777-7778 
Dayton: Valley of the Shadow; Dayton, OH 
Lee Highfield, schlgrmstr@aol.com 
A Stake in the Heartland 11; Northeast OH 
Ryan S. Cope, cedric@neo.rr.com 
937-222-2330 
(330) 923-4483 
O R E ~ O N  
Of No Concern; Eugene, OR 
Jr 
.edu 
T 
Zity, OR 
Theatre < 
Kewi-Cec 
r.edu 
Dark Salem; aaiem, UK 
om 
y B N N SYLVAN I A  
House of the Unknown; Pittsburgh, PA 
cam@andrew.cmu.edu 
Mudge Lounge; Pittsburgh, PA 
cam@andrew.cmu.edu 
SOUTH 
C A R O L I N A  
Blood Moon; Charleston, SC 
Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmaiI.com 
Charlestonus Ab Noctum; Charleston, SC 
Ian Retts, alisterlegare@hotmail.com 
Eclipsed Moon; Charleston, SC 
Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmaiI.com 
6- 


M I N D ’ S  
F Y  
- 


WHAT I HAVF LFARNFD 
by Yours Truly 


see one character trying to nutshell the essence of his kind for another 
character with no frame of reference whatsoever. The other character 
usually understands right away, and they move along. A variant of the 
crossover explanation scene involves the emissary (qv) explaining to 
members of his own people the alien ways of the people to whom he is an 
emissary. An even stranger twist on this scene is that of the occult scholar 
who can explain the alien ways of any [World of Darkness] culture because 
he’s “read about them before.” 
The Squad: 
This phenomenon has many names - 
the whoop squad, the beat squad, 
the gack squad, the hit squad -but 
it has one real meaning. What happens 
when one uses a squad in LARPing is that one character has a beef with 
another character, so he rallies a group of like-minded thugs to his cause. 
Having so rallied, the beefer then leads his thugs to wherever the beefee i s  
(preferably under the power of Cloak the Gathering, or through a convenient 
Umbral shortcut), and he [and they] proceed to whip the ever-loving crap out 
of the beefee. The resulting nightmarish mass-combat scene takes about two 
hours to play out (depending on who jumps in on whose side), but the in-game 
time the scene takes is about 15-45 seconds. 
The Ratio: 
Supernatural creatures vastly outnumber the mundane denizens of the 
World of Darkness. Especially in small towns and college campuses. Fortunately, 
though, these creatures maintain their intricate web of secrecy that veils them 
from prying eyes. If there are any. 
The Umbra: 
I’m not sure why, but the Umbra is the most important aspect of the world 
as we know it, no matter what kind of MET LARP is going on. It is a protected, 
impregnable haven. It’s a mystical gym locker for important things. It’s a great 
back door into any place on Earth. It cuts travel time radically. It’s the spy’s 
ultimate hidey hole. It’s even full of biddable, naive spirits who will pretty much 
do what you ask as long as you give them a unit of supernatural power. 
The only bad thing about the Umbra is that unknowable, destructive 
monstrosities seem to live there. And those monstrosities want nothing more 
than to cross over to the physical world and wreak havoc. 
Villains: 
The choice of villains that appear in LARPs say an awful lot about folks who 
play LARPs as well. LARP bogeymen include: 
Setites. Tremere. Sabbat. Spectres. “Wyrm creatures.” Black Spiral 
Dancers (whom many right-minded Gangrel have hunted in the past). 
Fomori. Umbral monstrosities. Demons. Setites. Men in Black. Iteration X 
cyborgs. The Inquisition (unless the characters are supernatural creatures 
who work for the Inquisition in their search for Golconda/ Transcendence/ 
Ascension and have slipped in under the radar). Or any weird mixture of 
any/all of the preceding. 
The use of these villains often has no relation to the LARP venue in which 
they appear, oddly enough. Vampires often fight - 
and call them - 
BSDs. All 
Garou (not just the Silent Striders) are particularly offended by Setites. There’s 


LESSONS 
And what have I learned from these observations? Actually, I’ve learned 
quite a lot. (No, I didn’t just write all that in order to verbally lambaste the loyal 
readers who’ve been helping pay my salary these last two years.) 
The first is to never be too critical, especially in this “industry.” I first came 
at the Journal with the perspective that White Wolf is right, and other people 
are wrong. If somebody played the game differently than the way we recom- 
mended in a book, that person was wrong. If somebody ran a game that may as 
well have been a dungeon-crawl of undead superheroes with fangs, that person 
was wrong too. Basically, anyone who deviated in their gameplay from the 
“canonical” decrees of the home office (all in the name of villainous and 
illiterate “fun”) was a loser and a goob who deserved to be ostracized from the 
hut m o d  that is the gaming community. 
Fortunately, I finally came around to realize that that attitude was the worst 
sort of undeserved snobbery. The people who are playing with our materials thus 
are still the people who are buying those materials. To say that they’re wrong 
implies that they’re dumb. And it doesn’t take a team of rocket-scientist 
philosopher kings to figure out that calling your customers dumb is a bad idea. 
If they (or you, or I frankly) diverge from the printed text in a way that makes 
a White Wolf game more fun, who are we behind the desks at this office to say 
that that’s wrong?That’s the worst kind of corporate jack-assery, and it’s no basis 
for developing a quarterly magazine. 
Without that built-in condescension working against me, it’s easier to see 
the good that’s hiding behind the otherwise judgmental observations that 
opened this essay. It’s easy to see that people approach LARPs with basically 
good intentions and reasonably good ideas. 
The biggest thing you notice is that LARPers want, expect and even 
demand a unified World of Darkness setting. You can tell it from the crossover 
lunacy and the scenes of explanation and the choices of villains. The people 
who buy our products, we can’t deny, don’t usually read one game line and one 
game line only. They see how the varied pieces fit together from each game 
line, regardless of that line’s cloistered perspective, and they expect their 
characters to live in an inclusive setting. Granted, it’s difficult to wrap one’s 
mind around a world in which clockwork brass robot constructs shared land 
with blood-sucking undead lords of the night, but that sort of cross-brand 
inconsistency is more the exception to the rule. People have been after us for 
years to admit that the World of Darkness is a singular supernatural melting 
pot, and they’ve got a point. 
The other big revelation I’ve made is that LARPers generally have a 
strong desire to be heroes and do what’s right. While they’re often cartoonish 
caricatures rather than characters in their own right, LARP villains are 
almost universally bad. They’re drug-dealers or gun-runners or corrupt 
bureaucrats or Hell-bound magicians or devil-spawn themselves, and they 
must be destroyed for the good of the community, or even the entire world. 
Common beat-squad rallying causes are those of freedom and justice; 
nothing gets a group of biddable head-thumpers together like the promise of 
a relief from tyranny. While many methods characters in LARPs engage in 


are extreme (such as short-range ambushes or sniper assaults), the core of 
motivation is usually a noble one. 
Plus, LARPers are some of most dedicated adherents to the concept of 
multi-cultural diversity you could hope to find. You see evidence of it in every 
Gangrel Wyrm Foe and Tzimisce antitribu and Kinfolk ghoul vassal to the local 
sidhe lord. It makes sense to LARP players that a reasonable explanation of 
oneself and a trustworthy practice of what you preach will gain one the trust 
and eventual respect of any culture - 
no matter how opposed to your own it 
may be originally. While that hope may not prove true reliably in our real- 
world experience, LARP players believe in it because that’s the way they feel. 
That’s a special kind of idealism that it does a heart good to see. It helps me 
remember why 1 got hooked up with the gaming crowd in the first place 
waaaaay back when. 
O T H E R  LESSONS 
These last several lessons are the ones I’ve learned while doing this 
job. Consider them a peek behind the curtain, and keep them in mind if 
you should ever decide to seek glorious and gainful employment in gaming 
design and publication. 
Gaming is not an industry. No, despite the notoriety and acclaim you can 
gain by becoming a public figure in gaming, gaming will always be a niche of a 
greater industry. As such, the concomitant pay one makes reflects that status. 
Freelance game writers kap at the opportunity to miss their deadlines. If our 
accounting department allowed me to supplement my paycheck with the 
penalty fees that are written into every White Wolf freelance contract for 
turning in work late or incomplete, I’d be sitting on a golden La-2-Boy watching 
a 70-inch projection screen television and lighting my duty-free Cuban cigars 
with rolled-up giant panda pelts while bellowing for Elian Gonzales and the 
“Whazzup! ?” guys to make me a sammich. 
The writer-developer-editor triangle is not a self-supporting mechanism. It 
is, instead an autocannibalistic mess that somehow manages to work despite 
its own best efforts. Each point in the triangle is convinced of its own 
intellectual and creative superiority, as well as the relative incompetence of 
the others. Unless the others happen to be right and able to prove it. Having 
been a part of each vertex of this triangle, I can state for a fact that this is 
unequivocally the case. 
It is hard to be topical and clever in a quarterly publication that gets to stores 
approximately six months after it kaves your hands. It’s also pretty hard to coordinate 
a coherent Event Horizon calendar on that schedule, as I’m sure you’ve noticed. 
A young editor with only three months of experience who’s thrust into the 
position ofdeweloping a quarterly magazine should not “contribute” his own fiction to 
that magazine. Hindsight is a painful teacher. I apologize for “A Position of 
Strength” and “Any Mother’s Child.” No, really. 
You have to settle sometimes. No writer or artist or typesetter or editor 
(or developer) lives up to your ideals all the time. Fortunately, that’s okay, 
because this isn’t exactly brain surgery or UN translating. Usually when you 
“settle” for a finished product, it’s every bit as good as your ideal despite how 
different the two are. 


All things being equal, you can’t really ask for a better job than doing what 
you love for enough money to live on. Even without the duty-free Cuban cigars 
and the sammiches. 
SPECIAL 
THANKS 
I can’t end this without giving credit (and my heartfelt gratitude) where it’s 
Richard Dansky 
Jess Heinig 
Cynthia Summers 
Peter Woodworth 
The Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal wouldn’t be what it is without all the 
work you four have put into it from the start. Others have come and gone to 
help keep the Journal aloft, but it wouldn’t have gotten off the ground without 
you. It’s been an honor and a pleasure, and the fact that the Journal is going 
away despite your fine efforts thus far royally stinks. 
And lest I forget, let me thank you folks who have been buying and reading 
the Journal all this time. You make the effort and the headache and the stress 
and the craziness worth it when all is said and done. I’m sorry it has to end, but 
I’m glad for the time we’ve had. 
due. My special thanks go out to these folks: 
