m 
I" 1 
I 
I 
i' 
E 


Written by: Peter Woodworth 
Development by: Richard E. Dansky 
Editing by: Cynthia Summers 
Previously published material has appeared in: Laws of the Night, Laws of the Wild, Oblivion, 
The Long Night and Changeling: The Dreaming, Immortal Eyes: T h e  Toybox, lmmortal 
Eyes: The Court of All Kings and Isle of the Mighty 
Art Direction by: Lawrence Snelly 
Art by: Jonathan Rhea and Stefani McClure 
Front and back Cover: Conan H. Venus 
Layout and typesetting by: Conan H. Venus 
Character Sheet Design: Sarah McIlvaine 
Special Thanks To: 
Justin “Mouth Full of Silicon” Achilli, for giving the stuffed chicken a sucking chest wound 
- 
literally. 
Andrew “Her Name Is Rio and She Dances on the Sand” Bates, for possibly the most 
novel use of a stuffed chicken known to man. 
Brian “This is What I’m Giving Up?” Petkash, for bucking the trend and tying the knot. 
Congratulations! 
Rich “I’m Blind!” Thomas, for knowing who’d be there for him. 
Fred “Tattoo You” Yelk, for zeroing in on a certain navelly bulls-eye. 
Chris “C!! !” McDonough for something that I cannot tell and must not recall. 
Greg “Pop Up Video” Fountain, for telling us more than we wanted know about various 
cinematic masterpieces. 
Rob “3 A M  Hatch, for letting us know how much debauchery was still on the clock. 
Mike “No Coke. Pepsi.” Tinney, for objecting to product placement. 
Playtesters: Sarah McIlvaine, Jody Gerst, J im Vasquez, Alyson Gaul, Lany Puccio, Steven 
McIlvaine, Cindy Silvestri, John Passanante, Steven Lovejoy, Tracy Miller, Suzanne Mlynarczyk, 
Heather McIlvaine, Michael Dappolone, Julie Miller, Richard Lovejoy, Kristie Mulieri, Trish 
Castallante, Justin Shilliday, Margaret Serota, Greg Heller, Travis Hughes, Larry Zoll, Jenny 
Stauder. 
Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, and Mage the Ascension 
are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse. Wmith theOblivion, 
Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West. The 
Shining Host, Laws of the Night, Oblivion. Laws of the Wdd, 
The Long Night, Changeling Players Guide, 
and Nobles: the Shining Host are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, 
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark 
This book uses the supernatural forsettings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com;alt.games.whitewolf 
and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN USA. 
or copyright concerned. 
are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised. 
I 


TABL 
NTS 
One en 
e
5
 
9 
35 
125 
6 1  
199 
3 


I swear, I’m never going into a fistfight unannounced again. 
Sounds pretty stupid, but when you’re a beat cop, getting the mot beaten 
out of you kind of puts a crimp in your nightly routine. I thought for a while 
that I’d just quit and see if the auto body place would take me back. That fell 
through, though - 
Ernie would want to know why I quit the force, since 
getting the badge was all I used to talk about. Then I’d have to tell him what 
really happened, and he’d never believe me. You might, though. You look like 
you might be one of them. 
Now, you might be a stranger, too, so let me tell you a bit about our fine 
city. There are times when I swear it looks like the Renaissance Fest has gotten 
loose in South Central around here. We’ve got street buskers and pimps, 
caffeine-freaked students and prostitutes, and above it all this air of genteel 
weirdness that means that most of the time all the various factions leave each 
other alone. I walk beat at night - 
Rank Hath Its Privileges, and I’m low man 
on the totem pole. Still, being around at night has its up side - 
you get to see 
some amazing things. Also, some really unpleasant ones. 
That little kindness is also what let me hear the sounds of the fight when 
I came out of the Dunkin’ Donuts on the corner off St. Charles; I can tell the 
noise of a beating over just a plain beat, even with the way the trio of busker 
drummers was feeling their groove. The ruckus was loud - 
at first listen, it 
sounded like a mosh pit lightly seasoned with pro wrestlers. Looking around, 
I realized that the noise was coming from one of those trendy new nightclubs 
off Esplanade Avenue. The sign read “Cat Turned Blue” in funky lines and 
neon squiggles - 
you could barely read the thing without seeing spots. Not 
the sort of place you’d expect to be home to a brawl, but then again, you’d be 
surprised how loose those preppies can get after a couple of those mocha- 
expresso-double-fudge-caffeine-shooter jobs they like. Loud, lewd and 
well-lawyered- the worst kind ofperps. I radioed into central that I was going 
in to break up a bohemian brawl, got my nightstick ready, and waded in. 


the artsy smoked glass door and saw-a company of hyperactive street mimes 
kicking the collective ass of the local high school freshman mixer - 
and all 
of them looked underage. These kids were jumping off tables, punching, 
kicking and screaming bloody murder. Even as I watched, one of the kids 
yelled some nonsense and did a little dance, at which point one of the mimes 
staggered like he’d been shot and fell over. 
Then there was the sword-fighting - 
these kids were whaling away like 
extras from Braveheart, but if they had weapons, I sure as hell didn’t see them. 
The fighting was real enough to them, though, and apparently mimes learn 
about things other than climbing out of invisible trash cans because they were 
cutting down kids left and right. And the kids played along! I’ve seen guys so 
whacked on LSD they’ll believe you just killed them if you tell them that the 
cactus man has just stepped on their fifth foot, but never anything as precise 
and realistic as what these kids were doing - 
some of them were acting like 
they were really injured! 
But they train you for the weird stuff at the academy. I looked around and 
figured, OK, I could deal with all this. I’d just slow the place down and wait 
for these guys to detox a bit before sorting out who did what to whom and what 
for. Perfect plan, right? I just didn’t take into account the fact that the kid in 
the black hat hanging up in the rafters was going to turn into a coyote. 
Actually, that was only one of the problems. The other was the young 
woman, maybe 20 or 2 1, who had been standing by the door. She saw me come 
in and did one of those mime overhead chops on my brainpan - 
and 
everything went to hell. All of a sudden, I started seeing things, things that 
I knew weren’t real. For one thing, she had been swaddled up like some retro 
gypsy, silks and scarves all over the place, but now she was just in these 
gorgeous robes, with these weird pointed ears. Her hand had been empty a 
moment ago, but now she was holding a huge knife with a serrated edge. I 
looked around and things didn’t get any better. At the back of the bar, a big 
dark-haired girl who’d been busting heads pretty good suddenly looked about 
nine foot nine, with blue skin and huge muscles and a set of horns poking out 
of the top of her forehead. All around me, the scene turned into something 
from an old storybook, with a collage of weird skin tones, renaissance faire 
outfits and wild body types suddenly replacing the kids who had been right in 
front of me. And the weapons! Jeez, these kids were armed like they were 
about to go on another Crusade, all swords and daggers and axes and knives! 
The only things that didn’t look much different were the mimes, except they 
did - 
they were all sinister and dark, holding these wicked gray blades. And 
yes, there was still a coyote there, with some kind of black bird perched on his 
shoulder. 
I must have screamed something then, ‘cause everybody in the place 
stopped, just for a second, and got this weird look on their faces like someone 
let the dean into the frat party right when they were about to roll out the kegs. 
It actually would have been pretty funny if I hadn’t been convinced at the time 
that I was insane, high or both. Suddenly one kid, now dressed in black and 
purple robes and the honest-to-God most handsome guy I’ve ever seen, called 
to me. “Help us! They’re trying to take over the freehold!” he screamed, and 
then everybody started whacking at one another again. The kid shot me a look 


end of the duel. And even though my brain was taking some time off to 
consider what was happening, I knew he was right, that the kids were right, and 
that I had to help. So I stepped in and did the best I could for the forces of good. 
It’s amazing how much of a deterrent a big 9mm can be to a group of 
mimes, even evil ones. They put up their hands real fast and skedaddled, and 
I was too weirded out to even try to slap cuffs on any. They melted into the 
night like ice cubes on a skillet, and that left me with the Elfy Brigade, who 
of course had no idea what to do with me. 
The guy in purple, who claimed to be some count of something or other, 
tried to explain things to me. He told me that the entire lot of them (except 
the coyote, whom I don’t even want to go into) were quote-unquote “change- 
lings” - 
faerie souls in human bodies - 
and that the killer mimes were more 
of the same. He tried to explain kith and faerie magic, and why everyone was 
protecting this “freehold,” and the rest of the kit and kaboodle. 
Ten minutes later I still had no idea what he was talking about, and the 
backup I’d called for finally arrived. I went out to talk to the guys in the other 
black-and-white; that took a few minutes which the changelings apparently 
spent deciding what to do with me. So when I went back inside to see if 
whatever it had been was still in the air, the count came back with an offer. 
The short version of the deal was this: They would knight me for my help, 
and keep me enchanted to see their world, if I would submit to an oath never 
to reveal them to the mortal world, and to help them to beat back the mimes 
and all the other creatures of darkness in the city. They even offered to supply 
me with proper weapons and armor for their enchanted world, but I couldn’t 
take all that. The armor, yeah, but a sword?No thanks. I’d stick with my nine. 
I looked at the two knights in the corner, who were named Luke and Davis. 
They each gave me a big wink, and so I looked back at the count. I believe I 
said something like this: 
“Why the hell not? Swear me in, and suit me up.” 
Not the best speech ever made, but it did just fine. So now I patrol the 
streets in the name of Count Brendan Beaumain, regent of the Principality of 
Jazz, defender of House Eiluned, as Sir Anthony Marks. I’m even allowed to fly 
the house colors right outside my window. Court sessions are every Friday, but 
until I learn a little more sidhe etiquette, I act as a door guard. It’s OK, though; 
Davis and Luke come over every other night to give me a lesson in faerie lore, 
so I’m learning things pretty quickly. Davis is a card sharp, and Luke talks to 
his pet raven too much, but otherwise they’re great guys. And believe it or not, 
this real fine faerie girl named Belladonna started making eyes at me. I think 
I’m in love, but who knows? Faeries are like that. Patrol is still the best part, 
and I’m already allowed to walk with the count’s honor guard on their rounds. 
Apparently those mimes are called Oubliettes, and their leader, Vandermere, 
is some nasty Unseelie leader bent on the usual villain stuff: domination, 
absolute power, etc., etc. Still, we’re making adifference, and we’ve kicked his 
elfin butt a few times already. 
Besides, how can you fault a society in which they ask you to beat up 
mimes all day? 


u h u r  This book Is 
The Shining Host is the live-action version of Changeling: The Dream- 
ing for Mind’s Eye Theatre. Like Laws of the Night or Oblivion, this book 
allows you to take one of the games of the World of Darkness and transform 
it into a live-action experience. With this book, you can leave the table and 
the dice behind and step onto the stage yourself. 
The ‘Rules OF SuFecy 
Behave yourself so that everyone can enjoy this game. The Shining Host 
is to be played in the home, at conventions or at other safe locations. At all 
times, you should remember that it is a game, only a game, and nothing but 
a game. If you feel yourself getting too wrapped up in what’s going on, take a 
timeout and step back from gameplay for a moment. It’s for your own good. 
The Only Rules Thac CDurreK 
Here are the rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre (MET), the only rules that 
absolutely must always be obeyed. These are common sense rules to keep 
everyone safe and happy with your game: other players, yourself, strangers in 
the area and even the police. 
These rules are designed to limit the opportunities anyone has to destroy 
the fun of your game. They’re not intended to limit gameplay or cut down on 
your fun; they’re just here to make sure that you play sensibly and safely. 


This is by far the most important rule. If a character is killed, if a plot falls 
apart, if a rival wins the day - 
it’s still only a game. Don’t take things too 
seriously, as that will spoil not only your fun but also the fun of everyone 
around you. 
Leave the game behind when it ends. Playing a changeling is a lot of fun; 
spending time talking about the game is great. There comes a time, however, 
when you need to leave the game behind. Don’t call the local duke’s player 
at four in the morning to try to badger some dross out of him unless he’s told 
you that you can (and then maybe the duke needs to take a step back himself). 
#2 - No Touching 
Never actually have physical contact with other players. No matter how 
careful you are, accidents happen, and someone will get hurt. Rely on the rules 
to cover physical logistics. 
#3 - No Stunts 
Never climb, jump, run, leap or swing from anything during a game. 
Keep the “action” in your action low-key. If you can imagine you’re an eight- 
foot-tall blue troll named @laf, you can certainly imagine that you’re leaping 
from rooftop to rooftop. Avoid attracting the attention of people who aren’t 
playing, and use your imagination to its fullest. 
“4 - No Weapons 
Fake and real weapons of any sort are absolutely forbidden. Even 
obviously fake or silly toy weapons are not allowed. Such props give other 
people the wrong impression as to what you are doing, and in the dark could 
conceivably be mistaken for real weapons. Use item cards to represent 
weapons instead. 
“5 - No DRU~S 
OR DRinking 
This one is a real no-brainer. Drugs and alcohol do not create peak 
performance. They reduce your ability to think and react, meaning that, 
among other things, your roleplaying ability will be impaired. Players im- 
paired by drugs or alcohol use are a danger to other players, and to the game 
as a whole. There’s nothing wrong with playing a character who’s drunk or 
stoned, but actually bringing such stuff to a game is in bad taste at best, illegal 
at worst. Don’t do it. 
”G - Be aindFul OF orhem 
Remember, not everyone you see, or who sees you, will be playing the 
game. A game can be unnerving or even frightening to passersby. Be 
considerate of non-players in your vicinity, and make sure that if you are in 
a public area, your gameplay actions are not going to alarm anyone. Just as in 


Changeling, there are a lot of mundanes out there, and their disapproval ca 
get a game shut down as quickly as Banality can smash a freehold flat. 
“? - The Rules aRe FIeFilSIe 
Feel free to ignore or adjust any of the rules in this book if it will make your 
game better. We at White Wolf call this “The Golden Rule.” If some rule 
included in this book (beyond the ones listed here) doesn’t work for your 
troupe, change it. But be consistent and fair. Nobody likes rules that change 
every week or “no-win” scenarios. If your troupe finds a new way to handle 
seemings that works better for you than the one in this book; go for it. The idea 
is to have fun. 
“8 - Have Fun 
Not “Win.” Not “Go out and kill everyone else.” Not “Amass more 
treasure than anyone else.” Just “Have fun.” The object of The Shining Host 
is not to win. In fact, there are no rules for “winning.” The goal is to tell great 
stories, not to achieve superiority over the other players. It’s not about how 
the game ends, it’s about the journey and what happens along the way. 
u h a t  is SroRytelling? 
We have been telling each other stories since the earliest days when 
cavemen acted out the tales of their hunts around their fires. We painted cave 
walls, pressed reeds into soft clay tablets, inked papyrus and vellum, acted 
plays, illuminated manuscripts, printed books, filmed movies, scripted radio 
and television shows, and programmed computers. Now, one of the newest 
methods of storytelling is actually a return to the oldest form. Live-action 
roleplaying (LARP), which grew out of the table-top roleplaying games of the 
‘70s’ is just the kind of “participatory” taletelling we can still view amongst 
cultures around the globe. It is the same emphasis on character and story 
which led to the creation ofwhat we call “storyteller”games, that you can find 
in the myths of out most ancient cultures. The book you hold in your hands 
is an attempt to explore those universal tales of the Hero’s Journey. 
m h u c  is mind’s eye Theume? 
This game is probably different from any game you have played before 
now. In many ways, this is really not a game at all. The Shining Host is more 
concerned with stories than winning, rules, game boards or dice. You will find 
that this game has more in common with childhood games of adventure than 
with card games or Monopoly-type board games. This book contains all the 
information necessary to catapult you into the worlds of imagination. You 
create the action and you choose your own paths. We have a name for this 
style of game. We call it Mind’s Eye Theatre. 


,
-
 
portray the main characters, but the script follows your decisions. The 
director of this improvisational movie is called the Storyteller; he, along with 
his assistants, called Narrators, creates the stage and the minor characters 
with whom you interact during your adventure. Most scenes are played out in 
real-time, and always in character. You should only break character when 
there is a rules dispute or a change of scene which requires adjudication from 
the Storyteller or Narrators. 
The ChaRacteR 
When you play The Shining Host, you take on the persona of a 
changeling, a fae soul born into a human body for protection from the cold 
winds of disbelief and Banality. Your character can be anyone from any walk 
of life. The only limit on your character concept (besides the rules) is your 
imagination. You create, then roleplay, your character over the course of a 
story and perhaps a chronicle (a series of connected stories). You decide what 
your character does and says. You decide what risks to accept or to decline. 
During the game, you speak as your character. Unless you’re talking to a 
Narrator or Storyteller, whatever you say is what your character says. Because 
most of what a Mind’s Eye Theatre player perceives depends on the 
characters around him, players must be vivid and expressive. The characters 
direct the plot, but at the same time, the events of the game guide and develop 
the characters, helping them to achieve the story’s goals. 
To an extent, as a player in a storytelling game you have a responsibility 
beyond simply portraying your character. You need to consider the story as a 
whole and your role in making sure that other players enjoy the game. 
Creating a character for The Shining Host is easy and only takes a few 
minutes. Only a few things are necessary to define a basic character, and once 
you’ve done that, you can play the game. 
There’s another phase to creating a character, though, and one that 
makes playing Mind’s Eye Theatre all the more rewarding. Your character 
should be more than just a series of Traits and numbers. Rather, she should be 
a living, breathing personality with a past, motives, drives, likes, dislikes - 
everything you want to see from a character in a movie or a novel. So it’s 
probably a good idea, before you start playing, to take time and figure out who 
your character is, as well as what she is. While certain details and personality 
traits will come out while you’re playing her, you’ll want to have the basics in 
place before you start playing. It’s just like an actor asking his director for his 
character’s motivation; if you know what your character wants, it’s easier for 
him to get it. 
Characters are the heart and soul of a story. Without them, all the patient 
efforts of the Storyteller would be for naught. Appreciate the Storyteller’s 
efforts by following the rules and taking an active part in the game. 


In Mind’s Eye Theatre, Narrators are the people who help the Story- 
teller present the adventure. Narrators are the impartial judges who describe 
scenes and events that cannot be staged, adjudicate rules and occasionally 
play the roles of antagonists. Generally, enlisting the aid of one Narrator for 
every 10 players makes for a good ratio. The best number of Narrators for your 
game usually depends upon the gaming experience of the players; the more 
experienced your players, in all probability the fewer Narrators they’ll need. 
Narrators usually play characters of their own as well as narrating certain 
situations. That way, they can be a part of the action instead of just trying to 
correct it from the outside. 
StORytdkR 
Every game must have a Storyteller, who serves as the ultimate authority 
and final judge in any game of The Shining Host you play. The Storyteller 
creates the basic elements of the plot, and makes sure that the story unfolds 
well - as well as doing everything the Narrators do. Storytelling is a 
demanding job, but it is also a very rewarding one, for it is the Storyteller who 
creates the framework upon which the players build their experiences. 
The Storyteller makes certain the story has content, interesting hooks 
and anarrative flow. This does not mean that a Storyteller should just sit back 
and dictate the plot - 
characters who don’t have free will are no fun to play. 
Instead, the Storyteller creates the “framework” elements of the plot, then 
turns the players loose in order see what happens. 
During the game the Storyteller must be watchful and ready to create new 
elements to make sure that the story works out well. He is also responsible for 
safety, ensuring that all of the players have something to do and that everyone 
is abiding by the rules. Although performing all of these tasks simultaneously 
can be exhausting, the sense of accomplishment gained from created a 
successful story makes the whole process worthwhile. 
In the end, the goal of the game is for everyone to have fun. 
PROPS 
Props can be anything that the Storyteller approves that helps to define 
your character, including costumes, makeup and jewelry. Have fun and 
employ any props that you feel are necessary to enhance your character. 
However, if you have any doubts as to whether a prop, such as anything 
remotely resembling a weapon will be allowed in-game, consult your Story- 
teller and abide by her decision. 
elegantly Simple 
This game was designed to be easy to learn and easier to play. The 
Shining Host is a storytelling game. The rules are aimed at resolving conflicts 


their characters in order to figure out what happened. We have made every 
effort to create rules that maintain the integrity of the story and the 
background in which the story is set. And with that caveat, the world of 
Changeling is yours to explore. Welcome to Mind’s Eye Theater: The 
Shining Host. 
When we are young 
Wandering the face of the earth 
Wondering what our dreams might be worth 
Learning that we’re only immortal 
For a limited time 
- 
Rush, “Dreamline” 
The world of The Shining Host is, in many ways, just like our world. 
Children are born, grow up, go to school, follow careers, grow old and die. The 
sun rises and sets day after day. In the World of Darkness, however, everything 
is just a little grittier, a little more corrupt, a little more sinister. Gang warfare 
is rampant. Poor areas are even more impoverished. What little true art exists 
has been devoured by the maw of television, pandering to the lowest common 
denominator. True wilderness is even more imperiled, and even more savage. 
Even the “nice” places of this world are touched by a hint of something dark 
and dreadful. 
This darkness is expressed in the ambiance of Gothic art, demonstrated 
by the motifs expressed in the architecture of high cathedral ceilings, 
gargoyles and towering structures that stab at the night sky like obscene 
arrows. The same shadows also express themselves in raw rage, random 
violence and rebellion- 
basic elements of the Punk movement. That is why 
we call the World of Darkness the “Gothic-Punk‘’ setting, because it com- 
bines these two styles. The Shining Host represents it in a very different way 
than do the worlds of Laws of the Night, Laws of the Wild or Oblivion, 
though. 


myths made Flesh 
Faeries have walked the world since the first dream a mortal ever dreamt. 
Born from nightmare terror and romantic bliss, the first fae danced at the edge 
of mortal society, following the natures granted them by dreams and reveling in 
the power and mystique bestowed on them by mortals. Over the centuries, the 
fae inspired mortals to create great works of art, but always with their own 
eldritch agendas. The society of these dream-born creatures, the feudal ideal 
they originally inspired mortals to adopt, has survived the centuries and 
upheavals of mortal society, though it is much diminished by the passing of 
years. Even so, to this day, courtly romance and chivalric conflict light the pages 
of faerie history with transcendent passion, heartbreaking tragedy and immortal 
heroism. 
However, the mythic times of the past are but a bittersweet memory now, 
and changelings have been forced to adapt their ways to an increasingly 
unimaginative modern world. Subsisting as they do on the power of creativity, 
changelings can be found wherever artists gather, inspiring them and urging 
them on to greatness. Some changelings strive to create art themselves, while 
others rip mortals’ dreams away from them to fuel their own. Old customs long 
forbidden have begun to resurface as the young pay no heed to their elders, and 
the threat of commoner revolt underlies talk in far too many freeholds across the 
world. Banality, the force of mortal disbelief, slowly wipes away the faerie world, 
and true art becomes rarer and rarer all the time. Some changelings, weighed 
down by Banality, never awaken to their fae selves, and live out their lives 
entirely in the mundane world. Once truly immortal, changelings are now 
merely reborn into new bodies at the passing of their current ones, and even face 
the possible death of their faerie souls at the hands of Banality’s agents. 
Against these threats, the Kithain come armed only with their knowledge 
of the Dreaming, a realm which they themselves are forbidden by virtue of their 
mortal blood. Never anything less than heroic by birth and epic by tempera- 
ment, the Kithain believe that they, as the legendary (if forgotten) heroes of 
humanity, are the only ones who can stop the world from destroying itself, and 
they face down the forces of Banality everywhere with magics as grand as a 
chariot of dragons and as simple as making a child’s eyes grow wide with wonder. 


Although changelings have existed for as long as memory stretches, they 
divide their history into several distinct stages, beginning with the blissful 
world of the Dreaming and ending in the troubled modern era. Despite the air 
of finality that many mortals and Prodigals assign to the present, the Kithain 
refuse to give up, seeing everything as a cycle and this as only another down 
period in an endless cycle of progression. In many ways, they are the last true 
optimists of the World of Darkness, and all the rarer for it. 
As the bards tell it, once all worlds were united, and Earth existed side- 
by-side with the Dreaming. Fae walked the paths of both Arcadia and Earth 
with ease. All life existed in a balanced cycle, Glamour saturated the air, and 
the fae could walk in their true forms without need for human bodies to hide 
in. Although the fae went largely unseen, pranking and beguiling their 
human cousins, both cultures embraced and learned from each other, and art 
and civilization flourished for a time that seemingly would never end. Then, 
for reasons unclear to this day, something changed, irrevocably separating 
both worlds. Known to the fae as the Sundering, this catastrophe impacted 
the fae like a tidal wave, making travel to and from Arcadia and Earth more 
perilous, and Glamour scarcer. Humanity began to embrace distrust and 
caution above imagination in an effort to pursue something that would be 
called “progress.” The fae took comfort in the Glamour they had, which was 
still relatively easy to attain, and complacently hoped things would get better 
even as the first signs of the next disaster gathered. 
Shortly before the Renaissance, humanity synthesized its faith, disillu- 
sionment and newfound hunger for scientific “reason” into a potent power of 
disbelief, and Banality first reared its cold head. This horrible event, called the 
Shattering by the fae, marked the final end of the Mythic Era. Taken aback 
at the power of this new foe, many fae were lost as the icy winds of rationality 
swept over the land, purging it of any trace of things that did not belong to the 
new “order” of the mundane world. During this time, nearly every sidhe 
abandoned Earth, returning to Arcadia through trods that closed after them, 
leaving the commoners stranded on a cold world. The remaining fae quickly 
developed the ability to create mortal seemings in which to hide, and went 
about surviving as best they could. They scavenged Glamour where it was 
found and held up a loose semblance of the noble order the sidhe had left 
behind, although the loyalty this new system got was shaky at best. Seelie and 
Unseelie fae evenstruck an unprecedented truce, which holds to this day. The 
commoners were simply too concerned with survival for the next several 
centuries to worry about matters of title and politesse, and it was during this 
time that they developed the strong “us against them” attitude that was to 
carry over into the modem age. It was also at this time that the fae discovered 
the deadly power of cold iron to destroy their faerie souls. 


born into mortal families instead of merely imitating their shapes. Though 
Banality caused many fae to forget what they were, times of art and learning 
came and went, giving the fae the opportunity to shape the world through 
their power to inspire mortal dreamers. Through war and inquisition, excess 
and famine, Kithain society survived. New changelings awakened all the 
time, and even the number of grumps was on the rise as imagination become 
a cherished trait once more. 
It was with great surprise, then, that the commoners found the Resur- 
gence upon them in 1969. As man first walked on the moon, the surge of 
Glamour triggered by a world transfixed with wonder opened trods long 
thought destroyed, and the sidhe returned to Earth. Exiled for reasons none 
of them could remember, the highborns nonetheless set about reclaiming 
their right to rule the Kithain, a right which the commoners -who 
argued 
they had done perfectly well without the sidhe for centuries - 
refused to 
recognize. The resulting conflict, known as the Accordance War, pitted 
commoners against nobility on a scale and with a viciousness not seen before 
or since. In particular, the Night of Iron Knives, during which much of the 
commoner leadership was slaughtered with cold iron after meeting under a 
noble flag of truce, and the murder of the sidhe commander Lord Dafyll still 
raise hackles on both sides. While the commoners, with their global home 
field advantage and better understanding of Banality, held the upper hand at 
first, the nobles brought with them many powerful Arts and treasures from 
Arcadia. After atrocities and heroics on both sides, a parley was eventually 
agreed upon. The coronation of the sidhe David Ardry, the long-prophesied 
High King, squelched the last of the tensions as he appealed to the values of 
both common and noble fae and built a kingdom sincerely dedicated to 
equality and the glory of the Dreaming. 
The result is a society where open bigotry based on factors such as kith, 
Court or title is largely a thing of the past, but where many hatreds, new and 
old, still boil under a facade of politeness and daily affairs. Nunnehi raids 
plague parts of the nation, and the native fae have vowed to fight to the last 
to win back their glens from invaders both Kithain and mortal. After all, epic 
grudges are as much a part of the Dreaming as epic quests, and it seems some 
matters might never be settled. Still, the determination of High King David 
to overcome prejudices of kith and class has created an atmosphere of 
tolerance never before seen in the world of the Kithain, and motleys and 
households of many different kith and backgrounds are quite common. As 
True Thomas, Grand Bard of the High King’s court, has said: “We haven’t yet 
all learned how to get along, but we have found that our common enemies are 
too many to face apart.” 


All changelings live a dual existence, interacting with both the mundane 
mortal world and the world of Glamour to which their faerie souls are heir. In 
this fantasy landscape, everything appears magical and different - 
castles rise 
out spaces where houses once were, forests glow with the life of nature, snow 
falls on the first of June just for fun, and fantastic beasts large and small roam 
the lands they once walked for real. What a character’s mortal eyes see as a 
plain street might become a craggy cliff, a dark bayou or even the hall of an 
enormous fortress. The faerie selves of other changelings are immediately 
visible, as are any enchanted mortals and Prodigals, and even a changeling 
who has temporarily forgotten himself has his faerie marks peeking through 
the edges of his mortal frame. Anything that belongs solely to this enchanted 
world is known as chimerical, and any “imaginary” objects or creatures are 
called chimera. Formed of the very stuff of dreams (and nightmares), chimera 
can take any shape imaginable, and have degrees of free will and intelligence 
in accordance with the power ascribed to them by those who dreamed them 
up in the first place. Thus, anything from talking teddy bears and animated 
lollipops to fire-breathing dragons and fierce unicorns can be found in the 
chimerical world. More to the point, anything you can imagine often is. 
Unless he has been overcome by Banality and forgets his fae nature, a 
changeling automatically perceives the chimerical world over the mundane 
one. This does not mean changelings are oblivious to the mundane world, but 
that they see the enchanted side as dominant. A changeling driving a car, 
even a car that chimerically spits flames and glows in the dark, is still able to 
navigate turns and traffic in the mundane world perfectly well. A Kithain can 
still detect a mugger approaching him, even if the thug isn’t part of the 
enchanted world. Perhaps the best way to describe it is that a changeling’s 
mind and spirit perceive other fae and the enchanted world, but her body 
(being mortal) instinctively recognizes and reacts to the mundane world. 
Consider the rule of thumb to be that any location the game takes place in is 
considered to be the mundane aspect of the setting, so that the characters’ 
mortal forms are reflected in and react to the real world unless the game is 
specifically set at a freehold. In most cases, the Storyteller can simply describe 
what the changelings see for the chimerical landscape (including any stair- 
cases, structures and other notable - 
and notably different -features of the 
setting). Especially important chimera can be noted by props or prop cards, or 
perhaps even played by Narrators. 
In the live-action world of The Shining Host, this means that many 
times characters will be forced to interact with chimera and a chimerical 
landscape that goes unperceived by the players themselves (and to characters 
who are unenchanted), a layer of make-believe on top of make-believe. 
Fortunately, as make-believe is the foundation of Mind’s Eye Theatre, this 
shouldn’t be too difficult. It can take some getting used to, however, even for 


unsettling to normal folk if the game is played in public places; routing a band 
of unseen Unseelie warriors in the comfort of your own home usually draws 
little notice, but chasing dragons on chimerical horses in the middle of the 
local mall invariably draws hostile attention, not to mention law enforce- 
ment. Even a friendly location, such as a gaming convention, can become 
confusing if the players are in the midst of unenchanted characters and wildly 
cheering a duel between two chimerical knights. The other players will feel 
left out, to say the least, and the game will quickly deteriorate into kill-the- 
changelings contests. Storytellers must take special care to describe to players 
what is mundane and what is chimerical about any locations in the game. 
The Kith 
Each changeling belongs to a “species” of faeries, called a kith. Born of 
legends and folk tales, each kith has its origins in a particular race or region, 
and once was restricted to living among the lands and peoples of its birth. 
However, the kith have since transcended such barriers, and now exist 
throughout the world. Indeed, though some families have carried faerie blood 
for generations, changelings are no longer restricted to being born to those 
families, and there is no rhyme or reason to the lineage of the kith. A pair of 
changeling twins might be born a pooka and a troll, for example. Contrary to 
modem notions of genetics, fae blood is also capricious, and may skip several 
generations, breed true in the next, and be absent once more. There is literally 
no telling whether a child will be born fae simply by her “pedigree.” 
Being born into a kithcarries with it specific ties known as Bonds, certain 
inherent advantages and powers (called Birthrights) and some weaknesses or 
drawbacks (called Frailties). Birthrights can be everything from trollish 
physical might to sidhe beauty to an eshu’s sense of direction, but to members 
of a kith they are as natural as breathing. In some cases, they are even strong 
enough to begin to surface before a changeling is aware of her true nature. 


above a whisper to the imperfections that haunt all nocker creations, but no 
kith can ever escape them. They are as much a part of that kith as the legends 
that forged them. While not all Birthrights or Frailties carry over into the 
mundane world, they are always on a changeling’s mind, and often find ways 
to peek through into mortal habits. 
For most fae, though, a kith is as much a community as it is a heritage. 
Many changelings only feel truly at home with others of their kith, who 
understand their shared idiosyncrasies. Most kith also actively seek out others 
of their kind who are yet unaware of their true lineage, or who have 
temporarily forgotten their fae natures, and the bonds formed thusly often 
hold local kith groups together. No matter how high a changeling rises in 
court politics or how many other kith form her motley, she remembers one of 
her own. 
The process of awakening to one’s heritage is known as the Chrysalis, a 
time when the Banality a changeling has endured in her life is sloughed off for 
the first time and her fae soul emerges. This event can occur at any time in a 
changeling’s life, from childhood to old age, but is marked by powerful blasts 
of fae magic that often draw the attention of changelings (and occasionally 
other things) for miles around. A newly awakened changeling, called a fledge, 
is taken to the local noble to be recognized, and is assigned a mentor who 
guides her through the adjustment to her new life. When.she has been 
determined to have learned enough and not constitute a threat to herself or 
the local Kithain population, the fledge is brought back to court, where she 
learns her True Name through a process called the Saining. At this point, she 
is fully recognized by the local nobility and free to pursue her own destiny. Any 
fledges who awakened with titles from a previous life take their places in the 
local court at this time. 
Seeming8 - The aoR.cal Shell 
Long ago, faeries adopted mortal bodies and fused with mortal souls to 
avoid the fist of Banality. To this day, normal mortals still only see the 
mundane appearance of a changeling. Faeries and other enchanted beings, 
however, see a changeling for what she really is - 
a troll is a bluish tower of 
muscle, a sluagh is pale and thin, and a sidhe possesses breathtaking beauty. 
Indeed, in many cases the mortal shell often faintly resembles the fae spirit 
within - 
trolls’ mortal seemings are usually tall and stocky, boggans’ are short 
and plump, and eshu’s are dark and handsome, although it is not uncommon 
to find a changeling whose mortal body hides a very different fae soul. 
Regardless of what the mortal shell resembles, however, the character’s fae 
form is the character’s “true”self, and he must act in accordance with both the. 
chimerical and mundane world. For example, a troll must stoop when 
entering doorways that are too low for his faerie height, even if his mortal body 


fits through just fine. To do otherwise is to deny one’s fae self, even if only fo 
an instant, and is an invitation to Banality. 
A changeling’s mortal age and appearance is called his seeming. While 
some rare fae souls reflect a different age than their mortal bodies do, most fae 
selves echo the mortal frames that hide them. Kithain society divides the 
seemings into three groups: childlings, wilders and grumps. Childlings are any 
fae up to the beginning of adolescence, and they are viewed as innocents and 
protected by their fellow Kithain. Wilders, the teens and young adults of 
changeling society, earn their name with their passions and lust for adventure. 
They form the dynamic majority of changeling society. Grumps, those rare 
changelings who hold onto their fae selves after the age of 25 or so, are revered 
for their wisdom and experience, and often advise their brasher young 
counterparts. As a changeling’s mortal body ages, so too does her faerie self, 
progressing from childling to wilder to grump until dying to be reborn again. 
Keeping track of a character’s mortal seeming is important to a character 
in The Shining Host, for while other fae will react with the character’s faerie 
self, mortals and other unenchanted folk will react based on the appearance 
of the mortal seeming. A childling may be a duke of the surrounding 
principality, but is unlikely to intimidate a mortal police officer, much less a 
vampire, without the assistance of some fae magic. 
COURZS 
Though Seelie and Unseelie fae live without open hostility in the 
modern age, such was not always the case. In the old days, the two Courts 
warred, and switching from one to another was considered treason of the first 
water. Unseelie used to rule during the seasons of autumn and winter, while 
Seelie ruled the spring and summer; the exchange of power, which occurred 
every Samhain and Beltaine, was one of the fundamental rituals of faerie 
existence. 
However, the Shattering changed all that. Out of the mutual need to 
survive the newly hostile mortal world, the Courts struck a truce which 
remains binding still. In modern times, Court is still important, however, as 
it determines a changeling’s general personality and outlook as well as her 
likely allegiances, and fae who switch Courts frequently come to be mistrusted 
by both sides. Seelie fae tend to love tradition, courtly romance and chivalry, 
and prize true love and honoring one’s oaths to be the highest achievements 
in life. Unseelie fae, on the other hand, embrace change and spend their 
Glamour and passions freely, trusting the countless mortals to provide more 
fuel for their adventures. Unseelie changelings hold the rights to speak and 
travel freely to be the highest freedoms a person can have, and bitterly oppose 
any attempts to restrict (read: restrain) these impulses on the part of their 
fellow fae and mortals alike. 


However, despite the prejudices of both sides, Unseelie are no more 
inherently evil than the Seelie are good; the Courts are two sides of the same 
coin, and not necessarily constantly directly opposed. For every self-absorbed 
and anarchistic Unseelie, there is a stodgy and close-minded Seelie fae. What 
Court a character follows will affect the way other fae perceive him greatly, 
perhaps nearly as much as his kith or title, as many Seelie never quite trust an 
Unseelie, and an Unseelie often holds mild contempt for his Seelie cousins. 


While artistic inspiration is perhaps the greatest, if subtlest, gift of the 
Kithain, it is by no means their only weapon with which to counter Banality. 
Changelings have always been suffused with a magical energy called Glam- 
our, the power of raw creativity. Through this power, the fae can effect direct 
changes on both the mundane and chimerical worlds, using the stuffofdreams 
to shape magical effects to suit their whims. A changeling can achieve nearly 
anything imaginable - 
from levitation to prophecy to dream travel to 
unearthly manifestations of courtly grace - 
by invoking Glamour through 
one of the Arts of the Kithain. Each changeling begins play having learned 
the basics of one or two such Arts from her mentor. As she grows and 
understands better the nature of Glamour, she learns how to work more 
potent and far-reaching magics, and the workings of grump sorcerers can 
astound even the most jaded mortal or powerful Prodigal. 
Chimera and the chimerical world, on the other hand, consist entirely of 
concentrated Glamour. This explains why mortals cannot perceive these 
fantastical creations and Banality causes them so much harm. Unlike change- 
lings, chimerahave no protection against Banality. Even the most magnificent 
chimerical manifestations, such as a cavalry charge on chimerical horses, will 
often disappear when faced with mundane observers. This forces Kithain to 
keep their most impressive chimera far away from relentlessly destructive 
humanity. 
Not a thing to be tied to even such varied forms as chimera, Arts and kith, 
Glamour also comes in the forms of magical items, both chimerical and 
mundane, called treasures. Highly valued and much sought after, these items 
contain bits of the Dreaming which allow them to perform certain feats or 
endow their owners with mystical properties. Some lucky fae occasionally 
awakens from her Chrysalis to realize that Aunt Grizelda’s tacky little seashell 
sculpture is really something quite magical, and winds up the proud owner of 
a potent treasure. There even exist temporary forms of treasures, called dross, 
which collect the creative and emotional energy of highly charged people and 
events into portable containers of Glamour. Changelings use dross both as 
currency and a means of fueling their magics. 
If there is any one rule of Glamour, however, it is that Glamour can never 
be anticipated. Some things long thought lost to Banality can glow bright 
with the songs of a new generation, and some of the most unlikely people can 
attract Glamour with their ideas. Mortals may not perceive Glamour, but 
changelings always do. Glamour can be described in an infinite variety of 
ways, but it is always an dynamic and contagious energy. Creative mortals who 
are particularly in touch with the Dreaming can occasionally feel some 
residue of the “high” Glamour naturally gives off. Glamour is the essence and 
lifeblood of changelings, and the search for new sources of Glamour to 
cultivate can absorb much of a changeling’s time. 


You made your bedlThat’s where you lie. 
No pearly gateswhen you die. 
We tried to teach/You didn’t learn. 
You’re going down/You’re gonna burn. 
- 
The Mighty Mighty Bosstones, “Holy Smoke” 
Banality has existed ever since humanity first turned its back on the 
Dreaming to embrace cynicism, caution and doubt. A combination of cold 
reason, bitter self-delusion, apathy and pessimism, Banality acts as far more 
than just a kind of “anti-Glamour” - 
it replaces and prevents Glamour from 
reasserting its hold over something. Indeed, it sometimes seems to drive 
particularly banal mortals to seek out places and people full of Glamour just to 
destroy them. 
Banality is as easy to sense as Glamour - 
excess mundanity produces a 
cold, heavy feeling in the stomach, followed by pins-and-needles feelings 
around the body and intense headaches. Changelings have trouble speaking 
and concentrating in areas of high Banality, and touching cold iron (the 
quintessence of Banality) produces violent stabbing pains, followed by a wash 
of lingering nausea. Unfortunately for mortals, Banality has turned on its 
creators in many ways, with the Mists that hide the effects of Glamour serving 
as the best example. Although the Mists cloud the minds of changelings who 
have forgotten their true selves, they also mask the power of Glamour, keeping 
those who would hunt the “insane” and “unholy” fae from being able to track 
their prey. 
Those mortals who champion Banality often find themselves consumed 
by it, living dull, emotionless lives that they secretly long to escape from in any 
way they can. This painful truth is one of the strongest arguments the Kithain 
have against their enemy, and pointing out the self-destructive nature of 
Banality often leads its minions to reflect for a few painful moments on the joys 
and spontaneity that they have lost. 
While the Kithain have no evidence of an actual animating intelligence 
behind Banality, this doesn’t stop them from considering it the single greatest 
enemy the fae have ever encountered; those changelings who are temporarily 
lost to the Forgetting are immediately the subjects of rescue efforts by their 
fellows, and those who are Undone for a lifetime by the weight of Banality are 
deeply mourned. Those who are Undone by cold iron are mourned with soul- 
searing intensity, for with each cold iron death, another fae spirit has been lost 
forever, and a little more of the Dreaming has died with them. 
Though childlings and wilders may think otherwise, grumps know that 
the greatest battles against Banality are not fought with guns and swords, but 
against mindsets of complacency and disillusionment, on battlefields where no 
sword has ever prevailed. Against such strong and subtle foes, only the 
willingness to dare to dream, and the urge to inspire mortals to live lives of 
greatness and imagination can ever hope to win out in the end. 


Ever since the return of the sidhe, changelings have once again adopted 
the feudal system they maintained long ago, though the demands of the 
modern age has forced on it some democratic concessions of which the 
returning sidhe never dreamed. For all its romance and violence, pageantry 
and power, the feudal order seems to suit Seelie and Unseelie minds alike. 
Even the most radical commoner anarchists admit the appeal of crown and 
title; it’s the lord and vassal part that most Kithain have trouble with. Since 
changeling society is based upon the progression of that simple unit - 
High 
King David counts the regional kings and queens as his vassals, who in turn 
get the allegiance of the dukes and duchesses of their domains, who have the 
fealty of their local counts and barons, who have the loyalty (at least in 
theory) of their commoner populations - 
not a few commoners have trouble 
with the whole setup from top to bottom. 
Swearing loyalty to any one or more of the parties in the great chain of 
vassalage are the legion of knights and ladies of Concordia, who-squires 
and 
retinues in tow - 
act as errant defenders of the realm, soldiers against 
Banality and guardians against any other threat their lord or lady bids them 
challenge. Nobles hold sway over freeholds, and decide how those lands’ 
resources are best used. In theory, every changeling has a lord or lady to whom 
he answers, who in turn watches out for his safety and provides shelter for him 
in times of conflict and need. Oaths backed by the power of the Dreaming 
keep both parties honest in their agreements. 
In reality, the system works much as intended, with a few major differ- 
ences. In deference to the democratic modern world and commoner appeals 
after the Accordance War, High King David created the Parliament of 
Dreams, a representative body which gives every noble freehold and com- 
moner mew an equal voice in the politics of Concordia. However, there are 
still many pockets of commoners, children of the modem age of freedom and 
democracy, who refuse to accept the rule of the nobility, and carry out 
subversive tactics ranging from peaceful demonstrations to full guerrilla 
warfare in order to cause trouble for the “fascist” system. Similarly, many 
nobility, especially the elder sidhe, disagree with High King David’s egalitar- 
ian tolerance of the commoner kith, and even refuse to recognize the 
legitimacy of commoners who have earned titles or held them during the 
Interregnum. These reactionaries constantly work behind the scenes to take 
freeholds away from commoners and restore the lands to their “rightful” 
owners, as well as to seize any opportunity to restrict the power and voice 
commoners have in changeling society. 
The basic territory in changeling society is a freehold, a place of Glamour 
ruled by a lady or a lord. Identical sites run by commoners are called mews, but 
these have grown uncommon after the settlement of the Accordance War. A 


theater to an overgrown theme park - 
most often unobtrusive places away 
from easy mortal access, although it isn’t unusual for Glamour to hide in plain 
sight. Wild places of beauty rarely disturbed by mortals, called glens, can also 
house freeholds and natural wellsprings of Glamour. All “official” Kithain 
business, such as settling disputes, Saining new changelings and conferring 
titles and honors, is carried out at a freehold, making the freeholds the center 
of Kithain society. 
Each freehold has a court, but there are many positions for commoners 
in a noble’s court, ranging from jester to steward to troubadour. The degree 
of involvement of the local commoners in a court is often a direct manifesta- 
tion of the locals’ feelings toward their lord, and a noble who finds herself 
surrounded solely by enchanted mortal servants is in deep trouble. Freeholds 
also possess some eldritch powers centered around the freehold’s sacred 
hearth, or balefire. While in a freehold, changelings do not age in either their 
mortal seemings or their fae forms, and can freely adopt their kith shapes 
without using Glamour or worrying about the Mists. All magics used within 
a freehold do so without repercussions from Banality, even if mortals are 
present. Additionally, great healing powers manifest near a freehold’s fire, 
making hearthfires ideal shelters for those ravaged by Banality. Given these 
advantages, it is no wonder the remaining freeholds are so fiercely contested 
and protected, and the discovery of a new freehold is a cause for great 
celebration. 
Of course, beings of wild Glamour are by no means tied exclusively to dry 
bonds such as title, domain or noble succession; as much as they are creatures 
of tradition, the fae also have a long history of festivals and other merriment. 
Mortal communities used to go into hiding when the fae were out on the town, 
and for good reason - 
by enjoying and celebrating the cycles of life, fae can 
temporarily lower the local Banality and have a roaring good time, made all 
the better by the fact that the mundanes rarely remember it come morning. 
While many of the Kithain’s festivals - 
such as Samhain, Beltaine, Yule and 
Imbolc - 
stem from Celtic tradition, the fae have borrowed holidays from 
just about every culture in the world, and invented some of their own when 
the mortals couldn’t come up with enough. Some of them, such as Highsummer 
Night (known to the pooka as “Pranksgiving”) and Carnival serve purely for 
merriment, while others remind the fae of ancient rites and transitions, and 
keep them hopeful and immersed in their heritage. Without such celebra- 
tions, much of the passion of the Dreaming would be lost; a changeling who 
consistently misses revelry with his kind begins to lose some of his fae aspect. 
Fortunately, eager childlings and wilders everywhere ensure that the old 
traditions will survive long past their current celebrants. 


One of the most ancient customs of the fae, this code of laws was revived 
with the return of the sidhe, and is now nearly universally upheld (or at least 
given lip service). Even the most staunch Unseelie admits it that the Escheat 
is mostly common sense, even if some of the semantics are disagreeable. 
The Escheat is upheld through a practice called the fior, or trial by 
challenge. The local lord chooses the type of challenge, and the outcome - 
said to be dictated by Glamour, if the fior is performed properly - 
determines 
the guilt or innocence of the accused. 
The Escheat consists of six tenets: 
The Right of Demesne - 
“A lord is the king over his domain. He is 
judge and jury over all crimes, large and small; his word is law. A noble is to 
be obeyed by his vassals, and respected by others. A noble is to respect his own 
lords in return.” 
The Right to Dream - 
“Mortals have a right to dream unhindered by 
our needs. The Dreaming will die if we steal directly from the font. None is 
allowed to use Glamour to manipulate the creative process. Although you 
may inspire, you are forbidden to give direct instruction.” 
The Right of Ignorance - 
“DO not betray the Dreaming to Banality; 
do not reveal yourself to humankind. Not only will humankind hunt us for our 
wisdom, but they will bring Banality on us and destroy our sacred places. The 
more humanity knows, the more it will seek to know, and the more Glamour 
it will destroy with its basilisk‘s gaze.” 
The Right of Rescue - 
“All Kithain have the right to be expect rescue 
from the foul clutches of Banality. We are together in danger, and we must 
strive together to survive. Never leave anyone behind. Kithain are required 
to rescue other faeries trapped by Banality.” 
The Right of Safe Haven - 
“All places of the Dreaming are sacred. 
Kithain cannot allow faerie places to be endangered. All those who seek 
refuge in such places must be admitted. Freeholds must not only be kept free 
of Banality, but of worldly violence.” 
The Right of Life - 
“No Kithain shall spill the lifeblood of another 
Kithain. No Kithain shall bring salt tears unto the earth. No Kithain shall take 
from the Dreaming one of its own. Death is an anathema.” 
hcadia and The DReaming 
Lingering on the edge of every changeling’s thoughts is the promise of 
Arcadia. Considered a paradise beyond imagination and the wellspring of all 
Glamour, Arcadia has been lost to the fae since the Shattering, and even the 
sidhe, who were exiled from Arcadia in 1969, can remember little about it. 
Supposedly, the taint of Banality and the limitations of a changeling’s mortal 
body prevent Kithain from ever entering Arcadia, lest the returning exiles 
invite doom upon all the Dreaming. Even the mortal touch Kithain carry 


rare visions and the occasional startlingly vivid dream that a changeling 
glimpses her long-lost homeland, but it is said that all Kithain instantly 
recognize the landscape of Arcadia. 
The sheer beauty and appeal of even a dream of Arcadia has been known 
to revive and inspire even the most Banality-laden grump. Unfortunately, 
excessive homesickness for this ethereal realm also is a leading cause ofwilders 
and grumps falling to the Forgetting, as they pine away for the unattainable 
paradise that lies just beyond the tips of their dreams. Disturbing rumors that 
some newly arrived sidhe recall a war in the declining Arcadian kingdom, and 
whispers of widespread turmoil and confusion in the heart of the Dreaming, 
contribute to the sense of loss and restlessness among the fae, as they worry 
about the fate of the land many of them consider their ultimate destination, 
and all of them realize is the source of Glamour. 
Still, for all of the shadowy rumors extant, the fae still desire entrance to 
Arcadia once more. It is a common goal of the quests of many motleys and 
oathcircles to try to find a trod to take them home, and many Kithain bards 
draw inspiration from the notion of such a divine place. 
Seasons 
Although changelings are creatures of a dynamic present and strive to 
recall a magical past, they know the future is gaining on them every minute. 
Unfortunately, the state of the world, with its growingpollution, violence and 
Banality, seems to bode ill for the fae. Many fae believe that the Earth is in the 
Autumn of its existence, about to slip into a Long Winter of cold Banality. In 
this coming age, the fae fear that Glamour will be completely smothered and 
the Dreaming weakened to the point of death as humanity embraces the 
carrion comfort of uninspired, unfeeling reason. It is a dark thought that 
haunts the fae even in the wildest moments of Glamour, and adds to the 
nihilistic fervor that many modern Unseelie fae feel - 
after all, if the world’s 
about to end, who cares how a little Glamour’s spent? 
However, not all fae are without hope. Even if Winter is coming, many 
changelings point out, that must mean a new Spring lies beyond, when the 
Dreaming will rise anew from the ashes of the previous enchanted world. Such 
a cycle is only logical, these fae reason, and therefore they spend their time 
figuring out ways to store the Kithain’s greatest treasures and deepest lore in 
safe locations. They also work to discover how freeholds will need to be 
bulwarked against the new ravages on the horizon, and make plans to preserve 
as many of the Kithain themselves as possible. These changelings are known 
as the Harbingers of Spring, and their arrival is sure to bring a flood of renewed 
hope and courage to dispirited fae and mortals alike. Indeed, it is this 
optimism, combined with a longing to return to Arcadia and an instinctive 
trust in Glamour, that keep the balefires lit across Concordia and the 
resources of every able changeling on the front lines against Banality. After 


the fight is for a good cause. And what cause could be better than the 
preservation of the Dreaming itself? 
While they are certainly unique, changelings are definitely not alone in 
the supernatural community of the World of Darkness, as the wisest and well- 
traveled among them know (or quickly learn). Sluagh hold tea withvampires 
and the souls of the dead, trolls fight alongside werewolves to protect the 
dwindling wilderness, and human wizards seek to control the reality of the 
mortal world much the same as the fae seek to keep and shape their world of 
dreams. Believing all of the world’s other supernatural denizens to be faeries 
who lost their way from the Dreaming and bound themselves to limited 
existences away from Glamour, changelings refer to these other beings as 
Prodigals. Some fae even long for a time when these other folk follow the 
parable of the prodigal son and return to the Dreaming, but as these 
supernatural “cousins” tend to be ignorant of the ways of the Dreaming they 
can accidentally bring Banality to a changeling’s door. Most fae tend to work 
from behind the veil of the Mists when it comes to the Prodigals, using their 
mortalseemings and fae magic to keep the others ignorant of their true natures 
if at all possible. 
Vampires 
Changelings and vampires often have little to talk about - 
faeries live 
and glory in the passions and fancies of life, while the Kindred, as vampires call 
themselves, are shut into a dreary half-life which depends on the suffering of 
others to continue. Indeed, the Banality brought about by a vampire’s 
unnatural state and inhuman feeding habits is often enough to send change- 
lings packing, although a few vampires, mostly those of the Malkavian and 
Ravnos “clans,” seem to be onto the spirit of Glamour in their own way. 
If a Kithain has to deal with the Kindred, it is best done through a member 
of one of these two clans at the highest possible speed and with the most 
possible precautions. The Kindred are known to be as paranoid as they are 
insatiable, and can have memories that span several of a faerie’s lifetimes. 
Fortunately, they maintain a Masquerade that in many ways mimics the 
Mists, and share the faerie desire to remain unseen by mortals, which limits 
them to subtlety in most of their actions. 
For more information on vampires, see Laws of the Night. 
Werewolves 
Werewolves, on the other hand, have long had relations with the fae, as 
both groups move freely between worlds and fight to maintain a dwindling 
resource they hold dear; only, for the werewolves, it is the spirit of Gaia, the 
natural world, that needs defending. They are great shamans, able to control 


Nonetheless, there are many ancient pacts between the Garou, especially 
members of the Celtic-born Fianna tribe, and the fae. Some Kithain also 
know of other breeds of shapeshifters, from bears to ravens, but of those, only 
the werecoyotes (or Nuwisha) share the true changeling spirit. Though the 
Nuwisha are extremely rare on Earth these days, when one of the prankster 
werecoyotes comes to town, laughter and good times are soon to follow for 
those fae wise enough to know when to laugh at themselves. 
For more information on werewolves, see Laws of the Wild 
Mages, the modern descendants of the original Dreamers, are now locked 
in a war for the nature of reality itself, and are split into four factions - 
the 
mystical and eclectic Traditions, Bedlam-ridden knights of chaos called 
Marauders, the foul and demonic Nephandi, and the Banality-serving Tech- 
nocracy. Of these, Kithain typically deal with the Traditions and Marauders 
the most; however, every mage ofevery faction is markedly different, and their 
thirst for Glamour - 
which they call Quintessence - 
makes changelings 
extremely cautious about inviting them to a freehold. 
Apart from the sluagh, who are inextricably bound to them, Kithain have 
very little to do with the spirits of the dead, or the Restless, as they dub 
themselves. Many fae troubadours speak of undying passion and love that 
reaches beyond death, but Kithain reincarnate, and thus think little about an 
actual afterlife; what they do know is that it is quite unpleasant, divided into 
quarreling factions and crowded with souls who try to cling to lives they’ve 
already lost. Denied direct access to Earth by ancient law and a barrier known 
as the Shroud, many wraiths serve dark and selfish dreams as well as noble love 
For more information on wraiths, see Oblivion. 
Often, Kithain fail to consider mortals in their world view; there are some 
mortals who live in fear and denial of anything that doesn’t fit their notion 
of what’s “right” and “real,” and some of these hunt changelings. Those 
humans who serve Banality merely by their dedication to a boring existence 
are known as Autumn People, and while they do not actively hunt the fae 
(indeed, most do not know changelings exist), their excessive Banality makes 
Glamour scarce and every changeling’s life that much more difficult. From 
overzealous librarians to overprotective mothers to overly rigid police offic- 
ers, these folk are Banality-ridden obstacles in every Kithain’s life. 
The second group of those who hunt Glamour are known as Dauntain, 
and they are even more feared than the Autumn People. Many Dauntain were 
once changelings, but have rejected their fae heritage and are now driven to 


-
-
 
to be deluded and in need of “help,” or that they are demons sent to tempt 
“righteous folk”, or (worst of all) they may know exactly what changelings are 
and hate them (and themselves) for it. Whatever their reason, the Dauntain 
track faeries with fanatical zeal and even employ weapons made fromcold iron 
in their attempt to purge Glamour from the world. Such hunters, if once fae, 
may be very difficult to tell from normal changelings, at least until the fighting 
starts. Mortal Dauntain, on the other hand, often go unnoticed by the dream- 
struck Kithain, flying under their radar until it’s too late. Such foes are the 
worst enemies a changeling can make, as they often know much about 
Glamour and Banality and the various kith, and use their knowledge to full 
advantage. 
Lepicon 
A different existence calls for a new vocabulary. Below are some of the 
Ability: The skills and knowledges and talents a character possesses. 
Arcadia: The land of the fae; the home of all faeries within the 
Arts: The ways of shaping Glamour. 
Attributes: The measure of a character’s basic Physical, Social and 
Autumn, the: The modem age. 
Banality: Mortal disbelief, as it affects changelings and their Glamour. 
Bedlam: A kind of madness that falls upon changelings who stray too 
Bidding: Part of the mechanism of challenges. The risking of Traits in 
Bunk: The price Glamour exacts for its power. 
Cantrip: A spell created through Glamour by using a combination of 
Arts and Realms. 
Challenge: The system by which conflict between two or more 
characters is resolved through bidding of Traits and the playing of “Rock- 
Paper-Scissors.” 
Champion: A warrior chosen by one of higher rank to fight in his stead. 
A champion always wears the token of his patron, which he keeps if he wins 
the duel. 
Changeling: A fae who has taken on mortal form in order to survive on 
Earth. 
Childling: A child come full into his changeling nature; this lasts until 
he becomes a wilder, around 13 years of age. Childlings are known for their 
more commonly used terms from The Shining Host. 
Dreaming. 
Mental statistics. Measured in Traits. 
far from the mortal world. 
order to win a challenge. 


Chimera: A bit of dream made real; unseen by mortals, chimera are 
Commoner: Any of the changeling kith who are not sidhe. 
Dauntain: Human faerie-hunters, deeply twisted by Banality. They 
are usually changelings who have turned against their fae natures. 
Dreaming, the: The collective dreams of humanity. Changelings often 
travel in these realms both to seek adventure and to gather the raw dreamstuff 
that can be used in crafting chimera. 
Dreamrealms: The lands comprising Arcadia and the other realms of 
Enchant: To imbue a mortal with the power to see chimerical objects. 
Escheat: The highest faerie laws. 
Experience: Points given to characters as they progress through 
Fae, Faerie: A being indigenous to the Dreaming (though not always 
Fathom: A deep-seeking, protracted use of the Art of Soothsay. Also 
Fior: A contest, the point of which is to determine justice. 
Fledge: A newly awakened changeling of any age. 
Freehold: A place that is infused with Glamour. Important to all 
changelings, freeholds are proof against Banality - 
for a time. 
Gallain: 1) “The Outsiders,” those who may be Kithain but whose 
origins, customs and magical ways are not understood; 2) Any inscrutable 
creature of the Dreaming. 
Glamour: The living force of the Dreaming; changeling magic. 
Grump: A changeling of elder years, usually beginning at about the age 
of 25. Very few changelings reach this age -most 
succumb to Banality long 
Health: The measure of how much physical damage a changeling has 
Hue and Cry: 1) A hunt called out against a criminal; 2) The call of 
Influences: The measure of how much control a changeling has on 
Kin: Human relatives of a changeling who do not possess faerie blood. 
Kinain: Human kinfolk of a changeling who possess faerie blood and 
part of the enchanted world. Chimera may be objects or entities. 
multiple games. Used for increasing the character’s statistics and powers. 
a current resident thereof). 
called “the Taghairm.” 
all changelings to come and defend a freehold. 
assorted institutions. Measured in Traits. 
frequently have strange magical “gifts” because of it. 


Kith: All the changelings of a kind. One’s kith determines the natur 
of one’s faerie guise and soul. 
Kithain: Changelings’ self-referential term. 
Liege: One’s sworn noble sovereign, whether baron, count, duke or 
Long Winter, the: The prophesied eradication of all Glamour. 
Mists, the: 1) The tendency for mortals to forget the effects of Glamour 
and the presence of changelings after a very short time. The Mists protect 
changelings from being discovered. 2 )  The tendency for Banality-tainted 
changelings to forget their faerie lives. 
king. 
Motley: A family or gang of commoners. 
Noble: Any changeling raised to noble title; although nobles are 
traditionally sidhe, lately commoners have begun receiving noble positions. 
Oathbond: The mystical bond created by the swearing of an oath. 
Realms: The five aspects of the world with which changelings have 
Retainers: Any servants of a liege. 
Saining: “The Naming”; a ritual performed on a newly awakened 
Status: How well-respected a Kithain is. Measured in Traits. 
Tara-Nar: The great freehold castle of High King David. Beneath it is 
Trait: The adjectives used to define your character. 
Trods: Magical gateways, faerie roads; some lead to other freeholds, 
Vassal: The sworn servant of a liege. 
Vellum: A specially preserved chimerical hide on which changeling 
scribes write. 
Wilder: A changeling of adolescent years, usually from age 13 to age 
25. Known for their wild undertakings and loose tempers, wilders are the most 
common changelings. 
Willpower: The measure of how strong a changeling’s will is. Measured 
in Traits. 
Yearning: Also called “the Gloomies,” the Yearning is the utter 
longing for Arcadia that overcomes grumps as Banality encroaches upon 
them. 
affinity. 
changeling to determine his kith, True Name and title. 
’ 
the Well of Fire, from which all balefire comes. 
some to the Dreaming itself. They are opened only at prescribed times. 
33 


The cornerstone of any roleplaying game is the character. This is 
especially true in live roleplaying, where dice, character sheets and other 
typical trappings of gaming vanish. Below are the basic rules for generating a 
character for The Shining Host. 


Before you write down a single thing about your character, you need to 
find inspiration for the type of character you want to play. Once you’re 
inspired, you need to develop a rough idea of who your character is. This 
development involves choosing a concept, a kith, a seeming and a personality 
(defined by your choice of a Legacy). The better you interrelate these four 
aspects of your character, the more intricate and complete the end result will 
be. 
A character’s inner self is often completely different from his concept, 
and the stereotypical image of a kith can be contradicted by choosing a 
contrasting Legacy. There are many different types of people who exist in the 
enchanted world of The Shining Host, and a changeling can emerge from any 
class and nation imaginable. With imagination and a little thought, you’ll 
find a character forming in no time. 
COURC 
In ancient days, the Seelie and Unseelie Courts warred openly, but this 
is no longer the case. Now the Courts nominally work together with Banality 
as their common foe, but ancient distrust still sets them apart. The Seelie 
embody tradition, honor and romance, while the Unseelie see their counter- 
parts as stodgy, reactionary and hopelessly antiquated. By the same token, 
while the Unseelie see themselves as a force for change, new ideas and free 
expression, many Seelie see them as anarchistic, disrespectful and self- 
destructive. Current politics lean heavily to the side of the Seelie Court. 
All prejudices aside, the Court a character chooses to follow says much, 
both about how he views himself and how he will be viewed by others. 
Switching Courts is always possible, but moving away from long-held beliefs 
is bound to raise suspicion and distrust from one’s former comrades. 
Legacies 
Over their many lifetimes, Kithain reincarnate, and no matter what kith 
or life a soul wears for a few years, the same underlying personality burns 
behind the mortal shell’s eyes. Even the newly arrived sidhe possess legendary 
ancestors and powerful personalities, all the more necessary for them to 
survive the rough transition to Earth. As the drives of these old souls are what 
lead to the doing of heroic (or less than heroic) deeds, and are the essence of 
what is carried from lifetime to lifetime, they are known as a faerie’s Legacies. 
Legacies are the marks and moods that determine the general personality of 
any given changeling. 
Legacies still reflect the ancient division between the Seelie andunseelie 
Courts, as Kithain have two parts to themselves. One tends to follow the 
honor-bound path of the Seelie, while the other adheres to the wildness and 
rebelliousness of the Unseelie. Unlike their ancestors, who were bound by 


seasonal cycles that determined their Court, modern fae can switch alle 
- - - - - -
-
-
-
-
-
~
giances freely. Most fae do tend to stick with one Court or the other, switching 
only on holidays like Samhain or Beltaine, or in face of great emotional or 
situational stress. 
With the change in Court comes a change in Legacy, as the Seelie or 
Unseelie side of a Kithain’s personality comes to prominence. Only one 
Legacy can be active at a time, but even so, the other finds ways to make itself 
known; fae Legacies are not catastrophic transitions, but rather complement- 
ing pairs. Trying to completely deny or repress one inevitably fails, with 
disastrous mental consequences for the Kithain in question. 
Carried by each Legacy is a Quest, as well as a Ban. These are two 
requirements which the changeling’s faerie soul has carried for several lives, 
and which have since carried into the character’s current incarnation. The 
Quest is a goal or code that a Kithain with that Legacy strives to uphold and 
pursue, and is the destiny that refreshes and renews him. Any changeling who 
ignores his Quest often feels increasingly bereft and listless, having pushed 
away his true calling. On the other hand, a Kithain who embraces his Quest 
finds himself constantly invigorated, ready to challenge the world. Similarly, 
the Ban is a restriction or admonishment which the Kithain must attempt to 
abide by, or else risk being plagued with feelings of guilt, self-doubt and regret. 
Even the most callous redcap or arrogant sidhe finds that performing actions 
that go against his personal Ban leaves him drained and uneasy, and he often 
finds that his Ban is the one law he can’t tolerate watching others break. 
(Note: The Ban does not prevent a Kithain from doing what it is the Ban 
describes; it only make him feel deep shame and regret if he does it.) 
Fortunately, a Kithain must only honor the Quest and Ban of whatever 
Legacy is currently active. A character may also choose an entirely new 
Legacy for one or both Courts, rather than simply switching between them. 
However, this is a fundamental personality change, and should be done under 
a Storyteller’s supervision and with a lot of soul-searching and roleplaying; the 
character is altering an essential part of herself, a painful and lengthy process. 
Such changes come about best when they are the result of events in the story 
(a Fiend develops empathy for one of her victims, a Stoic decides to embrace 
passionate public displays), not merely when the player feels like trying 
something new. As such, they should be worked into the chronicle accord- 
ingly. 
For game purposes, Legacies serve several functions. Most importantly, 
they determine a character’s personality. While not a straitjacket, a Legacy is 
still an excellent measure of a character’s general attitudes and goals. Not all 
Paladins play fair, and not all Peacocks are completely irredeemable, but 
generally speaking it’s safe to assume such cases are the exception and not the 
rule. Second, Legacies are one way to regain spent Willpower Traits; a 
Storyteller may allow a player who is roleplaying her Legacy (Quest, Ban and 
all) exceptionally well to recover a Willpower Trait as a function of her 


ignores her Quest and/or constantly violates her Ban may also find herself 
unable to regain Willpower Traits until she is more true to herself. Finally, 
Legacies serve to tell what Court a character is following at a given time; 
players should circle or underline on their character sheet which Court their 
characters are currently following before play begins, and update the sheet if 
the characters decide at any time to switch. 
Seek 
Arcadian - 
Human self? What human self? You much prefer your fae 
side to your human one, and long to learn more about the Dreaming. Your 
Quest is to learn new things about your faerie self, but your Ban is to never stay 
in your human seeming too long. 
mmon-sense 
mon sense. 
ting - 
bringing order 
way. Your Quest rewards 
you when, through hard work and effort, you leave something better than you 
found it, but your Ban requires that you never leave a group or situation 
without improving it in some way. 
Dandy - 
A social climber and career opportunist, you never miss a 
chance to advance yourself at court, and all manner of tricks are fair play to 
you so long as you get ahead. You have a Quest to succeed at being promoted 
or strengthening your current post, and a strict Ban never to pass up an 
opportunity to ingratiate yourself with your betters. 
Gadfly -No one’s 100 percent right, and you love to remind people of 
this. You are the social critic, the investigative reporter, the one who keeps 
the powers-that-be honest, be they mortal or fae. Your Quest goes one step 


forbids you from letting anyone else get in the last word. 
Hermit -You 
are introspective by nature, preferring your own company 
to that of others. When you do speak, it has weight, but most can count on 
one hand the times you’ve spoken on something without real consequence. 
Your Quest rewards you when inner reflection solves a problem, but your Ban 
requires that you rarely speak unless the situation is dire and you feel your view 
has not already been expressed. 
Humanist - 
Fae side? Don’t remind you! The opposite of the Arcadian 
and a reluctant changeling to the core, you may be frightened, disgusted or 
simply tired of your fae side. You prefer your human life and seeming to the 
chaotic world of the fae. You Quest to put human concerns above even the 
most pressing fae matters, and your Ban keeps you in human seeming and out 
Philanthropist - 
You h 
ed sense of morality, and 
live to help others and do good deeds. You may base these beliefs on anything 
from religion to your own moral code, but they are consistent (at least to you) 
and require you to give of yourself often. You fulfill your Quest every time you 
make a positive difference in someone’s life, but your Ban forbids ever 
accepting payment for your generosity or deliberately harming innocents. 
Pishogue - 
You live in a constant state of childlike wonder, and the 
conventional reality of your world is quite different even from other change- 
lings’. Your Quest rewards you every time you avoid an unpleasant truth, and 
your Ban requires that you never take anything too seriously. 
Prankster - 
The fae have a long tradition as jokesters and masters of 
pranking, and you are proud to uphold this. Your Quest applauds you every 


never verbally apologize for a prank and that you never take anything too 
Regent - 
You are the leader, the living embodiment of the realm, the 
one who speaks for many. Though you may not actually rule a fief or freehold, 
you certainly feel that for better or for worse, the weight of the realm is on your 
shoulders. Your Quest is fulfilled whenever you resolve a tough situation 
through your own leadership, and your Ban holds you to abide by your own 
Sage - 
You are the advisor, the teacher, the wise one. You have seen 
much, traveled much and know much (including the fact that you know very 
little). You Quest to see others follow your advice and succeed at their chosen 
task, but you have a Ban to never stand in another’s chosen way. 
s never to cause 
ining your 
est is to come 
orld is a beautiful, 
Virtuoso - 
There are few who can claim to have mastered a given field, 
and you are one of them. You Quest whenever you learn or achieve something 
that brings you closer to mastering your field, but your Ban goes against 
focusing on matters not related to your field for too long. 
Wayfarer - 
You are the endless wanderer, the rootless child with 
nowhere to call home and no one to call when you get there. You Quest 
whenever you survive a life-threatening situation through your own clever- 
ness, but your Ban requires that you never plan for the future. 
adicting o 


Beast - 
You are the roaring monster, the Leviathan. You conquer all 
who oppose you, destroying them if possible. Your Quest rewards you 
whenever you remove a significant opposition to your goals, but you have a 
Ban against retreating or compromising your territory. 
Bogle - 
You are a prankster, but unlike the Prankster, you don’t care if 
your tricks harm and maim, emotionally or directly, as long as you get a good 
laugh out of it. You Quest every time you pull off an artful and mean-spirited 
prank, but you have a Ban against apologizing for a prank or letting a human 
intentionally slight you without pranking him in return. 
Cerenaic - 
Pleasure is your quest, your motto and your area of expertise. 
You may favor a particular vice such as sex, food, drink, parties or all of the 
above, and your appetite is always increasing. Your Quest is to spend a day 
pursuing your vice, 
and your Ban is never 
Theatre to implement it. You 
every time you truly hurt 
someone, and you have a Ban against passing up an opportunity to inflict pain. 
Fop - 
You are called “superficial” by many, those uncouth swine. Czar 
of fashion, sultan of style, you are one of the beautiful people. Peasants, 
prepare to be dazzled! You Quest each time you outshine others in a social 
situation, and have a strict Ban to avoid being out of style. 
Fool -There 
is no meaning in the world, no deep purpose, no reason for 
anything. In this world of chaos you ride the waves like a master surfer - 
you 
are the divine trickster, the clown, the one who laughs last. Quest when you 
deflate the seriousness of a situation, but your Ban is to never search for the 
“whys” of your life - 
there are none. 


all wrapped ;p in one. The sicker, grosser and more horrible others find you, 
the more you like it. You Quest when your antics cause someone to falter or 
lose composure, but you have a Ban against ever revealing an overtly pleasing 
or appealing side of yourself. 
Humbug - 
Grumpy, sour and just plain cranky, you never let anything 
satisfy you. Some think that under your exterior is a lovable softie; you live to 
prove them wrong. You Quest every time one of your dire predictions comes 
true, and have a Ban against ever looking on the bright side of life. 
Knave - 
With a serpent’s tongue and a wicked gleam in your eye, you 
lead others on to exploring their darkest desires with trickery, flattery and 
manipulation. You Quest when you get someone to enjoy something he’d 
normally be opposed to, but your Ban requires that you never protect anyone 
from the harsh realities of 1 
eep you are. A1 Bundy looks 
like Mr. GQ with your rejection of such unnecessary things as grooming, 
bathing, etc. You Quest to expose others as frauds, and have a Ban against ever 
dressing appropriately for a situation. 
Rake - 
The world is one big bowl of pleasure, and you want the ladle. 
Material goods, sensual experiences, Glamour - 
you hoard anything that 
makes you feel good, even if it goes against your own self-interests. You Quest 
each time you succeed in your pursuit of personal pleasure, and have a Ban 
against giving anything away without hope of reward or a hard fight. 
Riddler - 
You are an enigma wrapped in secrets, and never give a 
straight answer to any question. Maybe you feel ignored and thus seek 
attention through riddles, or you just like to lie; the results are the same 


Ban against ever allowing others to discover the truth about you and your 
origins. 
Ringleader - 
You have your gang, and you rule with an iron fist. You 
work hard to build and strengthen your organization, and any who won’t 
submit to your cause and authority you crush mercilessly. You Quest when- 
ever you achieve something through the devotion of your followers, and have 
a Ban against allowing anyone to endanger the whole organization and its 
goals. 
Rogue -You 
don’t want to work for a living; why should you when you 
can simply fleece others? You pick their pockets while they preach their 
sermons, and prefer to let the world work for you instead of the other way 
around. You Quest when you achieve something that you don’t really deserve, 
you’re happy to give 
it to them - 
for a price. 
in, but unfortunately you 
tend to believe that people want what you are selling even when they do not, 
and youbecome.. . agitatediftheydonotmeetyourprice.YouQuesteach time 
you win an argument or debate, but have a strict Ban never to admit you are 
wrong. 
Wretch -You’re wretched, and boy, do you know it. The only one who 
hates you more than everyone else you know is yourself, and you are so awful 
you can’t even think of a witty insult for your reflection, sorry thing that it is. 
Your Quest (if it’s even worthy of such a grand name) is advanced whenever 
others vilify you as worthless, or throw up their hands in frustration after 
failing to get through to you. You obey a strict Ban against ever admitting to 
your own success. 


When the sidhe returned from Arcadia, they came bearing the banners 
of several noble houses that had been gone from Earth for centuries. Only one 
house of sidhe, House Scathach, remained behind when their brethren fled 
to Arcadia; they are now considered impure and inferior by most of the new 
arrivals. 
These are the descriptions of the six primary noble houses of the sidhe; 
all sidhe characters must belong to one of these houses, and any commoner 
character who is a servant or other recognized member of a house may write 
its name and add “(affiliation)” on the line for House. However, commoners 
do not receive the Boon or Flaw for the house. 
House Dougal 
Members of this house are known for their strength, wisdom and 
technical acumen. The house’s founder, Lord Dougal, pioneered the process 
by which fae smiths merge Glamour into steel to make it safe for fae to use. 
Members of this house tend to be gruff, practical and good with their hands. 
Order and precision a 
ey battle the Banality of 
mindless organization w 
e love artistic architecture 
and engineering of all 
nd as stewards, clerks and 
barristers in freeholds; th 
ougal tend to be orderly, 
practical domains. 
s of House Dougal may convert Glam- 
our Traits to Willpower 
aximum. This must be done 
while working hard, ex 
Flaw: All members 
some handicap that they 
must compensate for, u 
ed craftsmanship: a club 
foot, bad eyesight, poor he 
extends to their mortal 
bodies as well. Each must c 
t Lame, Oblivious, Decrepit or 
Delicate Negative Trai 
, for practical purposes, 
the Flaw is considered to have been corrected or compensated for somehow 
by the time play begins. This Negative Trait can only be called if the character 
knows a particular Dougal’s Flaw, and that usually requires a bit of digging. 
House Eiluned 
House Eiluned is known for its potent sorcery and mysterious ways, and 
supposedly has many contacts among the Prodigals. They consider them- 
selves to be in direct conflict with House Gwydion over the right to rule 
Concordia, and are constantly working to advance their house’s power as well 
as their own individual holdings. Although such ambitions can lead to 
infighting and backstabbing, Eiluned quickly band together when the time 
comes to defend against a common foe or advance the greater cause of the 
house. 
Boon: Once per session 


are especially potent, 
uned fae may spend a 
AGlamour Trait may 
be required to retest A 
joining any mysteries or p 
House Fiona 
This house embraces heroic passion and the spirit of adventure. Fiona fae 
are known for their love of drink and song as well as battle, and romance is 
their favorite pastime. Members of the house often hold radical views 
(compared to other nobles, anyway) and see their house as a catalyst for 
necessary change. Although members of House Fiona can sometimes be 
called from duty by appeals to base app 
s, they are fierce soldiers when the 
trumpet calls, full of spit and vinea 
absolutelv fearless. Despite their 
recent arrival and their role 
houses of the returning 
sidhe, Fiona are beloved 
laissepfuire attitude 
toward rank, and they ha 
of the commoners in 
fae politics. Lands ruled by 
ically happy and free- 
spirited, albeit a bit wild and dis 
f more formal houses 
and freeholds. 
Boon: Sidhe of House 
courage; any attempt 
to induce fear in them, 
, automatically fails. 
Though they understand it, 
in the face of death. 
The exception is if their tr 
ich point they become 
deathly afraid for him or h 
Flaw: Fiona fae, due ro rneir accepring narures, are given to tragic 
romances with “unacceptable” types like outlaws, mortals or even Prodigals. 
Such love often becomes such a complete and true passion that it cannot be 
denied; Romeo andJuliet looks like light farce compared to some of the tragic 
complications that frequently develop as a result. Members of the house can 
overcome the Flaw, but only by becoming utterly misanthropic toward the 
very notion of love - 
an attitude which will win the solitary sidhe no friends 
inside the house. 
ue love is in danger, ar whi 
er. 
L i  


House Gwydion 
This house is perhaps the most “noble” of all the houses on Earth, and is 
generally held to have the best rulers among the fae. Indeed, this house 
spearheaded the Accordance War effort for the nobles, and still holds most 
of the power in Concordia. High King David and several of the other kings 
are of Gwydion. However, some say arrogance runs in the blood as well, and 
when roused to anger. Pain 
rage; however, it generally 
and tradition, but the local 
use Eiluned are completely 
immune to this ab 
his Wounded Health Level, 
suffers intense pain, o 
ulted, he is in danger of flying 
Static Willpower Challenge to avoid suffering the effects of the Derange- 
ment: Crimson Rage for the next 10 minutes. He may be talked out of this rage 
by allies as one would talk a vampire or werewolf out of frenzy (i.e., very 
carefully), with a successful Social Challenge, but if the target of his fury 
returns before the time of rage has passed, he will go wild once more. 
House Liam 
The quietest (some also say wisest) of the houses, House Liam is known 
for its dedication to the mortal world and the protection of humans, a cause 
pursued with passion that even the Fiona notice. These fae do not see humans 
as perfect-far fromit-butdofeelhumanityhas aright toexistundisturbed. 
Members of House Li; 
and hate Banality, and their 
normally peaceful der 
e when presented with such. 
g the me for its outspoken allegiances. 
Although law forbids 
nly mistreated, the truth is that 
they are virtually pa 
most are widely traveled and 
dispersed. Liam sidh 
w nobles who truly understand 
humans, and are ma 
and archivists. A wise king 
keeps a member of 
tch. House Liam owns few 
freeholds, and the ones mey ao 
rren Droken-down urban wastelands 
no one else would take. 
Boon: Members of H 
y to enchant mortals; they need 
spend one less point of Glamour to do so than other changelings. Even this, 
however, has a downside - 
Liam fae begin with one more point of Banality 
than normal. 
The house is looked down o 
ster sage 
pers ; 
House L 
as SL 
.1 
3 
. 
1. - 


ling feels obligated to honor oathbonds, hospitality or justice so far as these 
fae are concerned. In addition, Liam fae begin with one less Status Trait than 
their Title would normally indicate. 
House Scathach 
This mysterious house is named for its founder, one of Ireland’s most 
famous warrior women. Members of the house actually remained on Earth 
when the other sidhe fled back to Arcadia, but were forced into hiding by the 
enmity the commoners held toward the vanishing sidhe. Like the common- 
ers, they adopted the ‘Changeling Way” and have passed down through 
mortal families through the 
are master warriors, scouts, 
spies and assassins, and move 
ed that is unnerving to their 
foes. Such fae are rarely seen, 
wmored to have contacts 
among the more nomadi 
have dubbed Scathach 
fae “Gray Walkers,” and 
that they have the best 
Soothsay abilities among 
h neither possesses nor 
desires political power, and if a 
own any lands, they are 
characteristically silent about it. 
Boon: All members of th 
et, even in combat, 
and are masters of blade and fi 
e level of Brawl and 
Melee, and are at a one-Trait a 
ated to any kind of 
hiding or sneaking around. Because of their lineage, Scathach fae do not have 
the regular sidhe Frailty of Banality’s Curse. 
Flaw: The members of this house exhibit a strange madness in combat; 
once they enter battle, Scathach fae must either spend a Willpower Trait or 
be unable to leave the field until all foes have been defeated. However, friends 
and allies are safe from this madness. These fae also are forbidden by an 
ancient pact, enforced by the full weight of the Dreaming, from using the Art 
of Sovereign, and are down two Traits on Social Challenges with other sidhe 
(except those of Houses Liam and Fiona) . 
Seeming 
Trapped on Earth, exiled from Arcadia, changelings have managed to 
adapt to the mortal world in many different ways. One of the most important 
is the changeling’s mortal seeming, the human body in which each fae soul 
clothes itself. These borrowed bodies act as shields against Banality and serve 
to hide a Kithain’s true nature from the mortals around her. Without the 
protection the mortal seeming offers, Banality would quickly erode the 
obvious magical nature of a changeling into nothingness. 
However, the age and appearance of one’s mortal seeming has a great deal 
to do with how one is treated by mortals and fellow fae alike; a childling often 
has a problem being taken seriously, while a grump is considered over the hill 
by the youthful masses of the fae. While faeries were once capable of living for 
centuries, the nature of the modern world discourages such magics, lest 


character ages; in the enchanted world, youth is critical to a character’s belief 
in magic, wonder and trust. All Kithain are considered to belong to one of 
these three categories, collectively called seemings. 
Childlings 
Childlings, the youngest of the Kithain, aren’t always as innocent or 
naive as they seem. Though physically between the age of three and 13, most 
are wise beyond their years, having had several lifetimes of experience behind 
them (they just don’t remember most of it). Outsiders in the adult-oriented 
mortal world, they can often see things their elders cannot or will not, and 
thus are prized for their perspectives by the sensitive Kithain. 
No matter how many lifetimes childlings have lived, however, they are 
still children now - 
the world is their playground, and they delight in the 
pageantry and spectacle of faerie existence. Displays of Glamour fascinate 
them, as do clever jokes and pranks, and any treasures lying around a freehold 
are considered fair game. Despite what their elders may think, childlings are 
not necessarily peaceful and happy all the time; with so much Glamour in 
their bodies, and without the same emotional and mental safeguards as their 
elder cousins, they can be destructive and hellacious influences on the world 
around them. Some of the worst are feral and bloodthirsty; the best do what 
they do with grace and style. 
One of the most serious threats to a childling is that posed by mortal 
authority figures, who often try to do “what’s best” for the precocious little 
one. The number of Autumn People waiting to enforce normalcy and 
conformity in a child’s life is also far higher than what most wilders and grumps 
think, and if a childling is forced into a corner by particularly banal parents 
and teachers, she may feel she has no choice but to run off to a freehold to 
escape. Unfortunately, few parents allow their child to run away without 
attempting some sort of rescue, and the childling risks having the freehold 
discovered by the authorities. 
Starting Temper Traits: Glamour 5, Willpower 1, Banality 1 


Anyone between 13 and 25 is considered a wilder, and most deserve the 
name. Typically rebellious, deviant and hedonistic, wilders are by far the most 
numerous of the Kithain, followed distantly by childlings and even more 
distantly by grumps. Because of this, wilders often try to assume the leadership 
of both Courts. After all, the childlings are too young, and the grumps just 
don’t have the energy anymore, right? And anyway, it wouldn’t be fair if a 
minority group represented the majority of society. 
While these dynamic young Kithain have lost the naivetC of childlings, 
they haven’t yet succumbed to the cynicism of grumps. Many can be quite 
caustic by temperament, and a certain degree of arrogance and self-impor- 
tance can be counted on when dealing with these fae. After all, if you told the 
average 16-year-old that he’s immortal, possesses supernatural powers and 
can stay out way past curfew, he’s likely to be rather cock-sure of himself. Still, 
most of the time the passion and courage of these young fae make up for some 
of their shortcomings in wisdom, and a surprising number of them show as 
much skill at politics and word-play as the rest do at romance and fencing. 
As they take risks and try experiences no other fae will touch, wilders 
often have brief, glorious existences as faeries; the thing these young hellions 
dread most is the notion of growing old, gaining Banality and simply waiting 
for the Undoing. A brief burst of light is better than a long, slow fade by 
candlelight to the mind of a wilder, and for this reason even the most cautious. 
wilders make up some of the greatest heroes of changeling society. 
Starting Temper Traits: Glamour 4, Willpower 2, Banality 3 


Grumps are the “grown-ups” of the faerie world. Although some wilders 
can get to the advanced age of 24 or 25, there is something that happens to 
changelings when they pass on into their grump seemings, a change from the 
wild passion of youth to the cultivated tastes and lore of age. The fire of life 
doesn’t die out, but rather dims. Many grumps miss the pleasures of youth, and 
some become irascible and bitter as Banality destroys some of the fiery 
idealism of their wilder days. A grump is far less banal than the average mortal, 
but by Kithain standards, he is stubborn and settled - 
a double standard 
which is a constant source of both amusement and frustration for grumps the 
world over. Many grumps play the part of the churlish mentor with a heart of 
gold, not out of inclination, but rather because it’s what seems to tickle the 
young people, and if it means they’ll listen to the “stern but kind old 
graybeard” when he speaks. 
Only one changeling in 20 can keep his fae self alive past his late 20s, the 
official beginning of “grumpdom.” The mortal world simply becomes too 
pressing to ignore, with careers to make and families to care for, and all too 
often the grump must choose which world he wants to inhabit. 
The role grumps treasure most is that of advisor, for a grump can pass on 
his knowledge to the younger fae and try to prevent some of the mistakes he 
made as a youth from recurring. Despite what the wilders think, the grumps 
make up most of the true movers and shakers of Kithain society, having the 
experiences and patience necessary to play the games of shifting alliances and 
political maneuvering that are underlie all of the real decisions. Perhaps more 
so than childlings, grumps love the chance to show off their abilities and 
“teach the wilders a thing or two.” 
Starting Temper Traits: Glamour 3, Willpower 3, Banality 5 
Kith 
The following are Western kith known to exist throughout Concordia. 
Though these sketches do little justice to the deep beliefs, abilities and ties of 
each kith, they shall suffice for now. 


Industrious, earthy and true, boggans are the glue that keeps Kithain 
society together. Ever ready to lend a helping hand and a sympathetic ear, 
boggans are wise enough to realize that even the mightiest heroes need a place 
to sleep, a bite to eat and the occasional parcel of goods to set them on their 
way. They are more than happy to oblige them. 
Boggans claim they were the result of mortals wishing they had extra 
worked quickly and 
a store of common 
ere are no witnesses and 
they are undisturbed. 0th 
without imperiling the time 
bonus, however. In addition, to reflect their expertise at their chosen trades, 
boggans receive a free level of Crafts that can never be permanently lost. 
Social Dynamic: Social interactions of any kind are meat and drink to 
boggans, and they delight in figuring out the relationships between people. 
Each boggan receives a free Empathetic Trait which can never be permanently 
lost in a challenge. 
Frailties: 
Call of the Needy: Evenunseelie boggans are easily taken in by the sight 
of mortals in need. Ebggans are also gossips without equal, and will buy almost 
any sob story or lurid tale, no matter how unbelievable. All boggans receive 
a Gullible Negative Trait that can never be bought off. 
Although many Concordian fae come from distant cultures and lands, 
perhaps none save the eshu have adapted to their new home quite as well as 
the clurichaun. Still strongest in their native Ireland, these endearing and 
resourceful fae have made the transition to America with grace and humor. 


causes them endless frustration - 
the American perception of leprechauns 
(another term for the kith). In particular, Concordian natives seem disap- 
pointed to discover that a clurichaun doesn’t wear green outfits with buckled 
shoes and carry a little hooked pipe, and more than one redcap band has 
fruitlessly tried to wrest the location of a clurichaun’s pot of gold from him. 
Seelie clurichaun chide others for this misconception, while the Unseelie are 
always ready to pick a fight with any fae foolish enough to compare them to 
a certain cereal box character. 
Clurichaun are strongly Irish in their mannerisms, even those who have 
been in Concordia for several generations. They often look the part as well, 
with bright red or tawny hair and deep blue or green eyes in both their mortal 
and faerie seemings; those born into families of African descent often have a 
red tint to their hair and striking hazel or light brown eyes. Clurichaun seldom 
grow very tall, and their faces typically get laugh lines very early in life. 
Although they wear what they like, most clurichaun decidedly prefer green, 
gray and brown, and in no case will they be caught without wearing green 
somewhere on their persons, whether it’s a stone in a ring or a ribbon in their 
hair. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Twinkling of an Eye: Clurichaun have a knack for disappearing from 
potentially troublesome situations. Should someone take his eyes off a 
clurichaun, even for a moment, the clurichaun may automatically receive a 
Fair Escape as he disappears into cover and vanishes. No supernatural speed 
or sensory powers can counter this ability - 
only in-character watchfulness 
will. A clurichaun may not use this power if blindfolded or otherwise unable 
to see, or if bound with cold iron. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Insight: When in a social situation, a clurichaun may spend a Social Trait 
and engage another person in a Social Challenge; if successful, he may then 
ask the player, “What would be the best response to this situation?” regarding 
the other character’s emotional state. The other player must answer truth- 
fully, although she can be as vague as she likes; in no case should this substitute 
for good roleplaying on the part of the clurichaun. 
All clurichaun receive a permanent Friendly Trait as well. 
Frailties: 
Tippling: Clurichaun have a terrible time resisting alcohol in any form, 
and when in its presence must make a Static Mental Challenge to avoid 
drinking. When drinking, Seelie clurichaun must spend a Willpower Trait to 
do anything other than sing sad songs and tell pointless, depressing stories for 
the rest of the scene - 
and even with the expenditure, they still get maudlin 
drunk. Unseelie clurichaun must spend a Willpower Trait each time they 
wish to avoid picking a fight when the opportunity arises. 


Explorers and entrepreneurs, dashing heroes and dastardly villains - 
eshu are never the supporting cast. These restless African fae embody the 
spirit of adventure, and as such can be found nearly anywhere in the world, 
pursuing quests and telling tales of their previous travels. Fae royalty in their 
homelands, eshu have since adapted to their involvement in Kithain society 
and the return of the sidhe with both humor and outrage. Few of their 
nd so the eshu take a 
Eshu tend to find 
primarily of African, Arabic and even Gypsy origin, eshu of all races now walk 
the roads of the earth; an eshu’s fae form is tall and graceful, with deep skin 
tones and fathomless eyes. Eshu chimerical clothing tends to favor colorful 
Arabian-style flowing garb with sashes and adornments, or African tribal 
finery. 
Affinity: Scene 
Birthrights: 
Spirit Pathways: Eshu have an uncanny knack for being in the right 
place at the right time, and although they may have to take the damnedest 
route to get there, the stories are always worth it. An eshu receives a “Spirit 
Pathways” card at the beginning of each session, which she may use to reach 
any given destination or find just the right place to be at any given moment. 
This translates into game terms in the following manner: When the card is 
used, the eshu may gain the advantage of a Surprise or a Fair Escape in combat; 
or, the eshu may state aloud a given purpose and/or destination with a 
Storyteller or Narrator present, and expect to reach it provided she actively 
travels toward it. Storytellers should take care that the intended spirit of this 
Birthright is not abused. 


Talecraft: Eshu are all natural storytellers, whether they choose to 
practice it or not, and as such each receives a free Expressive Trait which can 
never be permanently lost as the result of a challenge. 
Frailties: 
Recklessness: Eshu can’t resist any challenge that they have some 
chance of walking away from with any hope of success. To reflect this, they 
receive a permanent Impatient Negative Trait, and anyone savvy enough to 
try to lure an eshu with a challenge or proposition of some kind can also 
invoke a Gullible Negative Trait in any challenge that involves this flaw 
(although this Frailty never applies to obvious suicide missions). 
qhille Dhu (UeeL-du) 
Mortal legends abound with stories of nymphs and green men, Fair Folk 
who protected the glens and wild places. While all changelings savor the 
magic of the wilderness and seek to preserve it, there are few who can match 
the ghille dhu for their ferocity in maintaining the ways of the wild. Although 
the circumstances of the modern world have made these fae more scarce as 
time goes by, that has strengthened the resolve of those who stay bound to the 
earth still. Even the dedication of the trolls is put to the test when compared 
to the passion with which these strange and beautiful fae devote themselves 
to their chosen lands. Though once they held accords with the trolls, sidhe, 
pooka and even some Prodigal werecreatures to maintain the wild, nearly all 
of those old pacts now stand forgotten, and many of the Western kith aren’t 
even aware of this kith’s existence. This has forged a powerful “us-against- 
them” attitude in the ghille dhu remaining, and makes many of them 
suspicious and bitter toward their fae cousins. Only the pooka and the selkies, 
due to their natural affinity and shared disdain for Kithain politics, are granted 
exemption from this distrust. 
Ghille dhu avoid any profession that takes them to cities for long periods 
of time, and have a deathly fear of Banality; the rapid aging of their faerie 
selves makes them fear chimerical death more than almost anything else. 
Even in the wild, members of the kith tend to avoid professions dealing with 
large numbers of people, and as such are commonly found as park rangers, 
naturalists and environmental activists. In their fae forms, ghille dhu have 
green skin, which goes from bright to medium to greenish brown as they 
advance in seemings. Ghille dhu are often adorned with plants: flowers as 
childlings, vines and grasses as wilders, and leaves and mosses as grumps. In 
their human forms, these Kithain make cute children, stunning teenagers and 
wizened elders, but they always wear something indicating their bond to 
nature. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 


Note: Ghille dhu have different Birthrights for each Season of their life 
until their death in Winter, except for Nature’s Bounty, which they have in 
all seemings. Thus, childling (or Spring) ghille dhu receive Spin the Wheel, 
wilders (Summer) get Rose and Oak, and grumps (Autumn) get Wisdom of the 
Ages. These Birthrights are not cumulative, as each Season’s Birthright 
replaces the one before it. 
Nature’s Bounty: Ghille dhu may harvest Glamour from beautiful 
natural scenes. Consider this process a form of Reverie, only it allows the 
ghille dhu to take the Dreamers Background as a favorite park or vista instead 
of a person. The time taken to gain Glamour is the same as usual, the ghille 
dhu must be relatively undisturbed and the scene pristine. A natural site may 
be Ravaged, by accident or design, rendering it useless for the purposes of a 
ghille dhu. 
Spin the Wheel: Childling ghille dhu can retest any challenge, no matter 
what it may be and without cost, once per story. 
Rose and Oak: Wilderghille dhu receive free Gorgeous and Wiry Physical 
Traits, reflecting the splendor of their Summer forms. 
Wisdom of the Ages: A grump ghille dhu can use her deep connection 
with the Dreaming and its cycles to get the answer to a single question. She 
must meditate in a natural setting (not with a potted plant at the mall!) for 
one hour, out of game, during which time she cannot communicate with 
anyone, and spend a Willpower and Glamour Trait. She may then ask a single 
question of the Storyteller, and make a Simple Test. If she wins, the answer 
the Storyteller provides will be mostly straightforward; if she ties, a more 
cryptic answer may be provided. If she loses, the question may not be asked 
again for at least a month. She may retest, but only at cost of another Glamour 
and Willpower Trait per retest. This Birthright, meant to be used once per 
lunar cycle, can fail or even backfire with false information on the ghille dhu 
if used for trivial purposes. Those who use it too often may find themselves 
gone into the wilds for good one night.. .. 
Frailties: 
The Kiss of Winter: Before the Sundering, this kith lived one-year 
lifespans before being reborn the next year, and ghille dhu still tend to live 
short lives even now. This Frailty is one reason. Any ghille dhu who is 
chimerically slain (reduced below Incapacitated chimerically) automatically 
ages to her next seeming. Additionally, if a ghille dhu acquires a permanent 
Trait of Banality, she must make a Static Challenge of her permanent 
Glamour against a difficulty of her permanent Banality or suffer a similar fate. 
If a ghille dhu grump is forced to age another seeming, her faerie self dies, 
leaving only the mortal shell. She may be reborn, however, although there is 
no hope for a return in this mortal life. Note that this “aging” applies only to 
the faerie mien, not the mortal seeming. 
55 


The embodiment of creative inspiration brought to frenzied life, nockers 
are the builders and crafters of the faerie world, the artisans who shape palaces 
out of dreams and forge weapons out of hopes. Unlike the boggans, however, 
whom they jeer at for choosing quantity over quality, nockers focus on tasks 
large in both ambition and material. They are known for building some of the 
most spectacular landmarks and heirlooms of the Dreaming - 
as well as some 
one more 
respected nockers are on the low end of court invitation lists, but for their part 
nockers don’t put much measure into politics - 
it’s their craft that really 
matters, and little else. 
Nockers have pale skin with red cheeks and noses that make them look 
drunk, and long pointed ears and noses. Their hair is a translucent white, and 
their skin tends to be tough and gnarled, making even wilders look fairly old 
before their time. Nockers are some of the most casual of the Kithain, and 
have been known to wear their workbelts and street clothes to all manner of 
court functions. When nockers do dress up, the angular and functional 
fashions can kill at a hundred yards - 
often literally! Many nockers become 
quite distracted without something in their hands, and are constantly fiddling 
with some device or another. In their mortal seemings, nockers flock to 
professions where they can spend most of their time tinkering and building 
and away from people; engineering, architecture, computer sciences and all 
manner of service/repair professions appeal to them. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 


 
~ 
 
___ 
Forge Chimera: Nockers are the craftsmen and artisans of the fae, an 
57 
with proper time and tools they can create chimerical objects of all kinds, 
weaving them out of pure Glamour and hard work. These objects cannot 
require radiation, electricity or active chemical reactions to function, how- 
ever. Nockers receive either a free level of Crafts or Repair to demonstrate this 
affinity. Created items require a Static Mental Challenge with a Storyteller- 
assigned difficulty, and also an expenditure of Glamour based on the complex- 
ity of the item: 
One Glamour - 
Hammer, door, business card 
Two Glamour - 
Locks, candelabra, knife 
Three Glamour - 
Sword, siege engine 
Fix-It: Nockers are master craftsmen, and everyone knows it, too! Most 
machines can be intimidated into working correctly by a nocker’s baleful 
glare. Nockers may make a Simple Test to force a machine to work, and 
succeed on a win or a tie. If the machine is sentient, this becomes a Social 
Challenge, though no Traits are at risk for the nocker. 
Frailties: 
Flaws: Nockers are the greatest crafters of the fae, but something is always 
wrong with whatever they create - 
true perfection is beyond these Kithain. 
All items crafted by nockers have at least one Negative Trait (Heavy, Loud, 
Fragile), and should the artisan somehow correct this flaw, another one will 
appear to take its place. Nocker items may also have more than one flaw, 
depending on how rushed the nocker responsible was in the crafting. Nockers 
also receive a permanent Obnoxious or Tactless Negative Trait due to their 
abrasive attitudes. 
Pooka (Poo-kuh) 
One of the most quintessentially fae kith in outlook, the pooka are a 
diverse lot, and consider themselves one happy, funny, furry extended family. 
Notorious liars and pranksters, these shapechangers are the jesters and comic 
relief of Kithain society, and they play their part with great pride and 
enthusiasm. Pooka embody the daydreams of mortals who enviously watched 
animals and children playing freely, and maintain deep relations with both 
aspects of their protectorate. Imaginary friend, offbeat artist, class clown, 
favorite teacher and wacky neighbor are favorite pooka occupations, and any 
field where they can spend time with animals or innocents is a treasure to 
them. They take their protectorate quite seriously, and even the Seetie can 
become quite vicious with their “pranks” if they catch someone abusing 
animals or children; if the offender doesn’t learn his lesson (quickly), he 
endures the same abuse his victims suffered several times over. Ever artful, 
pooka justice is often quite public and geared to humiliate as well as to punish. 
Every pooka can change into one animal, and while the shape adopted 
is usually nonthreatening and mammal (cats, dogs, mice, sheep, etc.), tales of 
avian, amphibian, aquatic and even reptilian pooka are not unheard of. Some 


-
-
 
in the extreme; unless guided through their Chrysalises by a very gentle hand, 
these pooka often fall into Undoing from the experience. In addition, pooka 
tales of their kind who could change into insects, large predators or even 
legendary creatures are generally regarded as just that - 
stories. Often, a 
perceptive fae can guess at a pooka’s animal affinity without even peeking at 
her fae mien, as pooka tend to look and dress in styles reminiscent of their 
also Cowardly and D 
ed with some hand 
be maintained as long as the shape is taken. Changing back requires only 10 
seconds and privacy. (Note: Security cameras and the like count as someone 
“being around.”) 
This is a Wyrd Birthright - 
pooka cannot change while in the presence 
of the unenchanted, although a pooka already in animal form is unaffected by 
the arrival of mortals, who see her as a normal animal of her type. 
Confidant: Pooka have an ability to befriend people that is almost beyond 
their control at times; their natural senses of humor and whimsical dispositions 
tend to get them past most people’s emotional defenses. All pooka have a free 
level of Subterfuge and an Ingratiating Trait to reflect this innate talent for 
getting people to spill their guts. 
Frailties: 
Lies: Infamous liars one and all, pooka are incapable of telling the 
complete, straight truth - 
they must always mix in a lie of some kind. A 
Willpower Trait must be spent for each time a pooka wishes to say the straight, 
unadulterated truth. Pooka also receive a permanent Untrustworthy Negative 


Trait that can never be bought off. This is a Wyrd Frailty, and a pooka 1 
not always lie around the unenchanted, although these Kithain are often full 
of “blarney” in the mundane world, and are considered “colorful” speakers at 
best by those who know them. 
Redcaps (ReD-kaps) 
Savage fae who date back to the first mortal nightmares of things lurking 
in the night, redcaps are said to have been spawned from the same emotions 
nered with raw visceral 
the Kitha 
far, few c 
clannish 
I for life. So 
h suits the 
involving body piercing and tattooing are extremely common for wilders and 
grumps of this kith, and the current fashion for leather and metal suits their 
tastes perfectly. In battle redcaps fight quickly, savagely and dirty if necessary, 
using tactics and weapons that play to their image as fierce, inhuman monsters 
as much as possible. Wherever they go, redcaps give fae and humans alike a 
shock they seldom forget. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Dark Appetite: Redcaps can eat anything (and we do mean anything) 
they can get their mouths around; failing that, they break something into 
smaller pieces and eat it anyway. A Glamour Trait is required to eat a 
substance that no human could conceivably digest, however (i.e., toxic waste, 
tires, romance novels -Storyteller’s decision on what is “conceivable”). This 
can be a Wyrd Birthright, depending on what the redcap is attempting to 
digest. 
59 


intimidated by their tough talk. All redcaps receive a free Intimidating Trait, 
and are two traits up on any Social Challenges involving sheer bad attitude. 
Frailties: 
Bad Attitude: No one likes a redcap; all redcaps must choose two of the 
following Negative Traits (or one twice) that can never be bought off: Bestial, 
Callous, Ignorant, Impatient, Obnoxious, Tactless or Violent. Childlings and 
wilders also cannot begin with Seelie Status (even with a Title Background), 
though Unseelie Status is unaffected in any seeming. 
debate is sure to 
some of the hottest bands an 
imals in the known world. 
When these boys and girls get their Gift of Pan going, the Banality goes down, 
the temperature goes up, and everybody gets a little bit crazy. Regardless of 
Court, love or hate, tragos stick together beyond most other bonds in a satyr’s 
life, and any satyr who is about to fall to Banality is given a powerful send-off 
by his comrades. Satyrs can be found in any profession, though they much 
prefer the life of musicians, actors and itinerant professors. 
Shameless performers on and off the stage, satyrs are straightforward folk, 
and their appearance tends to emphasize their.. . finer features. These Kithain 
treasure their hair, and both sexes often grow it long and luxurious; males 
rarely shave. What clothes satyrs wear are durable and easily removed. In their 
fae form, they have furry goat legs, cloven hoofs and horns growing from the 
tops of their foreheads. These horns grow longer and more intricate as the 
satyr ages, and are occasionally associated with sexual prowess among males. 
Affinity: Fae 
Bullv Browbeat: Redcaps have such bad attitudes that even chimera are 


Gift of Pan: Satyrs are capable of awakening the libidos or repressed 
desires of others through singing or playing. Satyrs receive a free level of 
Performance to reflect this affinity, and can engage a target (or targets, as satyrs 
often affect large crowds at concerts and the like) in a Perfmnce Social 
Challenge which, if successful, forces the target( s) to act out a Negative Trait, 
Derangement or simply a repressed desire for the rest of the scene. The target’s 
effective Banality is also lowered by one for the remainder of the scene. In the 
case of group challenges, the most banal person in the crowd must be defeated 
for the Gift ofpan to work, but if he is, everyone else in the area is affected too. 
Multiple satyrs may combine their efforts; each additional satyr adds one Trait 
to the bid for the Gift of Pan Challenge, and if it is successful, lowers the 
Banality level of the group an additional point (minimum of Banality 2). 
Combat or any other direct threat to the target(s) immediately cancels the 
Gift of Pun, unless the target’s desire was somehow violent in nature. Kithain 
and Prodigals may also spend a Willpower Trait to retest the Gift of Pan 
Challenge; if successful, the Birthright may not be used on them for the 
remainder of the session. 
Physical Prowess: All satyrs receive a permanent Athletic Trait, and in 
their goat-legged fae form can make an attempt at a Fair Escape by running 
away from combat. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Frailties: 
Passion’s Curse: Satyrs are given to wild mood swings, especially when 
drunk, and often have trouble controlling themselves. Satyrs are two Traits 
down on any attempts to maintain self-control for any reason, and any 
supernatural powers that read, create or control emotions receive a free retest 
when used on satyrs. This penalty is doubled if the satyr is intoxicated. Note: 
Self-control applies to resisting the lure of a good party just as much as fighting 
the urge to flee from a hideous chimera. 
Selkies (SeL-kees) 
Not all changeling politics are confined to the land. Indeed, the mysteries 
of the undersea races (merfolk, merrows, etc.) are barely known to the Kithain 
at large, much less understood, and the distrust of the aquatic fae for their 
landbound cousins leads to little communication between the two races. 
Legends on both sides paint the other as malicious, exotic and cruel, and as 
such the fae of Concordia have little to do with their watery cousins. Caught 
in the middle of this stony silence are the selkies, seal-folk who live for the 
constantly shifting shoreline and serve neither the Undersea nor the Oversea 
Courts. Once solely a phenomenon of the British Isles, like their clurichaun 
cousins, the selkies have since migrated to America, drawn by the vast 
beaches and plentiful seal kin they find there. They can now be found on both 
coasts, and while still relatively rare, many shore communities harbor one or 
two. They are contradictory creatures, shy and outspoken, playful and 


because only their own kin seems to truly understand them. 
Unlike pooka or even other shapechangers such as the werewolves, 
selkies are skinchangers; when they assume their human forms, they literally 
put their seal forms aside. A selkie’s seal coat (be it in the form of a wetsuit, 
fur greatcoat, belt or something else) is the home of her fae soul and the source 
of her Glamour; without it she is unable to change skins or work cantrips. If 
it is destroyed, so too is her fae spirit, and she may never regain it. Selkies also 
do not come into existence as other changelings do - 
they must physically 
pass on their seal skins to another, usually younger, individual, who may then 
live the selkie’s life. The new owner may transfer the Glamour to a new skin 
instinctively (from an old greatcoat to a new wetsuit, etc.), but once it’s hers, 
she must find another to take it of his own free will to pass on the selkie legacy. 
This peculiarity alone is enough to make other Kithain view selkies with 
suspicion, and is one of the reasons this kith largely keeps to itself. 
The other is their overpowering need to be near the sea; selkies cut off 
from the shore quickly fade away and their fae souls wither. No one quite 
understands the pull of the ocean like they do, and while most selkies are more 
than happy to show someone the glories of the sea, the other kith find the seal- 
folk‘s inability to leave it for an extended period of time frustrating. The 
passion these fae put in defending the seas and all their creatures is likewise 
conveniently overlooked by the others. For their part, selkies don’t feel 
limited by their need for the sea- after all, they have the whole ocean to play 
in. 
Selkies are frequently attractive and friendly, with healthy tans and 
weather-tested looks that many find irresistible. They have little trouble 
making friends, and as such typically have a wide variety of contacts wherever 
they live. They dress very casually but most refuse to let their seal coats, 
whatever they may appear to be, out of their sight for long. Obviously, any 
occupation which keeps them near the beach interests selkies; many find 
employment as fishermen and Coast Guard officers, or end up surfers and 
beachcombers. Grump selkies are even less common than grumps of other 
kith, as most of them pass on their skins to younger, less banal heirs when they 
feel Banality creeping up on them. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Seal’s Beauty: All selkies are especially attractive to the appropriate 
gender, and when in a friendship or seduction contest with such parties 
receive Seductive and Alluring for free. These Traits can be bid as normal, and 
are lost and gained as any other Traits, except that they never apply to others 
who aren’t attracted to their gender. 
Ocean’s Grace: All selkies automatically succeed at any non-combat or 
non-cantrip challenges or tests related to swimming in any form, and are two 


Trait down on all Physical Challenges made on dry land. 
Seal Form: A selkie, provided she is immersed in sea water and wearing 
her seal coat, may transform into a normal-seeming harbor seal (although 
abilities such as Kenning and Heightened Senses can see through this guise with 
a challenge). She gains Nimble, Lithe, Dexterous and Athletic, but also Short- 
sighted, Bestial x 2 (it’s an animal, folks) and Delicate. To shift back, she must 
loosen a comer of her suit (undo a button, unzip a wetsuit) and surface. A 
selkie automatically knows where her coat is at any time, with no Glamour 
cost. The ability to change into a seal is a Wyrd Birthright, although all other 
effects involving the suit are not. 
Frailties: 
Longing for the Ocean Shore: Selkies are beach creatures; eachday away 
from the shore, they gain one Banality Trait. If their Banality exceeds their 
Glamour, they forget their fae selves. These Banality Traits (even permanent 
ones gained from this separation) can be removed by the selkie spending one 
day per Trait in the ocean. However, they often must be “rescued” by others, 
who put them in their seal coats and drop them in the ocean. This risks 
Bedlam, but if it’s not done.. .. 
Seal Coat: A selkie’s faerie nature is contained in his seal coat, and if it 
is destroyed, the selkie’s faerie nature is destroyed forever. Fortunately, only 
fire and cold iron have any effect on a coat, and cold iron does no chimerical 
damage whatsoever unless it injures the coat (actual damage is unaffected). 
A seal coat automatically wins all challenges not involving fire or cold iron 
(though this does not make it invincible armor, as it is simply sometimes more 
resistant than its wearer), and has as many Health Levels as its wearer does; 
damage to the coat should be recorded separately. A selkie cannot cast 
cantrips without his coat, though he need not be wearing it to do so. A selkie 
can automatically sense where his coat is if it is taken; no challenge is required 
to do so. Selkies can (and must) pass their Glamour through their coats, giving 
them to others as they see necessary or appropriate. 
Sidhe (SHee) 
For all the power and majesty of the Kithain, one can only imagine it 
would take beings of surpassing grace, resolve, imagination, courage and 
honor to rule them, let alone guide them and protect them. In the modem 
times, with Winter approaching, Glamour running thin and Banality con- 
suming all who oppose it, such leaders would have to be nothing less than 
awesome to stand up to such threats and not lose their nerve. 
The sidhe are such leaders. 
Worshipped as gods and goddesses by some cultures, sidhe are always 
breathtakingly beautiful, and even in their mortal forms they stand out from 
the crowd. The sight of a sidhe in her full glory breaks hearts for a hundred 


makes redcaps turn tail with the intensity of her rage. Sidhe tend to have 
mortal lifestyles of influence and wealth- eccentric CEO, fashion model and 
jet-setter are all common. Whether this is an extension of their Birthrights or 
simply chance is a topic of debate, but sidhe seem to be successful in whatever 
field they choose. In mortal seeming, they tend to prefer stylish but not 
ostentatious clothing, and almost everything looks good on them. In fae mien, 
however, anything is PO 
rops, armor formed of 
Banality’s Curse: Si 
and all Banality ratings are considered one higher for the purposes of the 
sidhe. This includes testing against Banality for cantrips. In addition, sidhe 
receive an extra Trait of Banality for each one earned, making them very 
vulnerable to the ravages of the mortal world. Sidhe also do not reincarnate 
as other faeries do. The uncertain fate of their souls is a source of constant fear 
and worry for the sidhe, which often makes these noble fae afraid to risk death. 
Sluagh (SLOo-ah) 
Lurkers and loremasters, gatherers of secrets and shadows, the sluagh are 
said to have been given their shapes by mortal dreams of creatures in the 
darkness who heard every secret, saw every sin and punished the wicked when 
night fell. In older times many parents put unruly children back in line with 
threats to call the sluagh to discipline them, and even in the modern age the 
other Kithain look uneasily at the underfolk when they hear the word “fear.” 
Called rumormongers and eccentric collectors at best, spies and assassins at 
worst, no other kith is as widely distrusted by its fellows, or considered quite 
as useful when it comes to dealing in a rival’s dirty laundry. For their part, the 
sluagh say little, preferring instead to let centuries’ worth of reputation 


of their affairs. 
Sluagh maintain ties with other denizens of the shadow community, most 
notably wraiths, who have been their allies for centuries. Gifted (or cursed) 
with the ability to see and speak to the spirits of the dead, sluagh often make 
bargains with wraiths, protecting the precious Fetters and Passions of their 
dead friends in exch 
on areas inaccessible even 
can automatic 
tion to respond or even 
senses make sluagh even 
excessive stimuli (bright lights, loud music) are doubled, and events that 
would ordinarily blind or deafen another character will do so for at least twice 
as long for a sluagh. 
Contortions: The underfolk are very limber, and are able to bend and 
twist in the most disturbing ways. Each sluagh receives a free Lithe Trait, and 
is able to make a Simple or Static Test to escape bonds or straitjackets (cold 
iron negates this second advantage). However, having such delicate bones 
and joints also give sluagh a Delicate Negative Trait which they can never buy 
off. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Frailties : 
Whispers: Sluagh are completely incapable of speaking above a whisper, 
and automatically fail any cantrip or other test which requires them to do so. 
This poses an obvious problem for many Social Challenges - 
Traits such as 
Expressive or Eloquent are completely ineffective when the target cannot hear 
what is being said. As a rule, if any challenge requires a target to hear the 
sluagh's spoken words, the sluagh must whisper it, and the target's legitimate 
failure to hear it cancels the challenge immediately. Whispers is a Wyrd Frailty, 


above a light murmur regardless of who is present. When in the presence 
solely of changelings or enchanted beings, sluagh must always whisper. 
Sluagh are agoraphobic and shy by nature as well - 
all have a permanent 
Shy Negative Trait which cannot be bought off, and are at a one-Trait penalty 
on all challenges in wide open spaces. 
TROIIS 
(TKOLS) 
Rememberers of oaths long since lost to the world and defenders of places 
no other kith can recall, the trolls have not disappointed their creators’ 
ambitions, even if modem 
ore their faerie guardians. 
Trolls are the closest thi 
seemings, trolls tend to pre 
uphold trust and the public 
good, especially if it allows them to work with their strength: police officer, 
forest ranger, farmer, athlete. Trolls’ dress, like their living quarters, is Spartan 
and practical, but their weapons and armor are always kept highly polished 
and well-cared-for. 
Affinity: Fae 
Birthrights: 
Titan’s Power: All trolls are large and muscular; as such, they receive free 
Brawny and Stalwart traits, and wilders gain the advantage of an additional 
Bruised Health Level. Grump trolls receive an additional Brawny Trait and 
another Bruised Health Level; however, they lose one dexterity- or quickness- 
related Trait (beginning characters start with no more than two such Traits 
total), and cannot gain any more such Traits unless they somehow perma- 
nently lose a Trait of Banality as well. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 


This devotion manifests as an extra Willpower Trait per story that can only 
be counted or spent in direct support of an oath that the troll has sworn. 
Frailties: 
Bond of Duty: Trolls live for honor, and any breach of a troll’s sworn 
word has an extremely detrimental effect on him. Any troll who violates a 
sworn oath immediately loses the benefits of Titan’s Power, and loses Physical 
Traits at a rate of one per day until he runs out. These Traits cannot be 
regained, even with Willpower. If the troll has still not atoned for his breach 
of honor by the time his Physical Traits run out, he begins to lose Health 
Levels at a similar rate, and he will die the day he loses his last one. There is 
no known method for avoiding this fate, save to atone for the breach of honor 
and feel genuine remorse for the act. 
Seep TWO: 
l k t R i b U t e S  
Attributes are everything a character naturally, intrinsically is. Are you 
strong? Are you brave? Are you persuasive? Questions such as these are 
answered by your character’s listing of Attributes, the Traits that describe her 
basic, innate potential. Each Trait represents an aspect of your character’s 
personality and allows her to perform deeds and actions specifically related to 
her strengths and weaknesses. 
Choosing &t-Ribures 
The first step in the process is to prioritize the different categories of 
Attributes (Physical, Social and Mental), placing them in order of impor- 
tance to your character. Is she more concerned with the physical than with 
the social? Does her knack for quick thinking surpass her physical strength? 
You must figure out which category is most important to your character, 
which is second, and which is least important. 
Categories of Attributes: 
Physical Attributes describe the abilities of the body, such as power, 
quickness and endurance. 
Social Attributes describe your character’s appearance and charisma - 
her ability to influence others. 
Mental Attributes represent your character’s mental capacity and in- 
clude such things as memory, perception, self-control and the ability to learn 
and think. 
The concept, seeming, and kith of your character may suggest what your 
Attribute priorities should be - 
a redcap probably won’t have Social as his 
Primary - 
but feel free to pick any way you please. For now, think in the 
broadest of perspectives - 
you can get more specific after you understand the 
big picture. 


After you’ve chosen the order of the three Attribute categories, you need 
to choose specific Traits from each category to flesh out your character. Think 
back to your favorite novel. Each of the characters in it is described with 
adjectives - 
“mysterious,” “arrogant,” “lithe” and so on, allowing you to draw 
a mental picture ofwhat each character is like. For the purposes ofMind’s Eye 
Theatre, Traits work the same way. They are the adjectives that delineate 
who your character is and what he can do. The only difference is that inMET, 
unlike a novel, Traits have other applications as well. 
In your primary (strongest) Attribute category, you get to choose seven 
Traits. In your secondary category, you choose five. In your tertiary (weakest) 
category, you choose only three. Thus, you receive a total of 15 Attribute 
Traits. You can take the same Trait more than once, if you wish, reflecting 
greater aptitude in a specific area. 
Traits have two primary purposes. The first and most important purpose 
is to enable you to describe your character concretely and thereby empower 
your roleplaying. The second is to enable you to interact with other characters 
in terms of the game system. The mechanics of The Shining Host revolve 
around the Trait system; almost every challenge is resolved using Traits in 
some fashion or other. 
The premise of this system is that a character who is described by a 
specific Trait tends to be pretty good at things that involve that Trait, and is 
certainly better than someone who doesn’t have the Trait at all. For example, 
someone who is Brawny is a better arm wrestler than someone who isn’t. 
Likewise, a courier needs to be Tirekss in order to deliver a document quickly 
and still be standing afterward, and a child who is Persuasive has agood chance 
of convincing his nurse that he isn’t responsible for the broken mirror in the 
drawing room. 
AttRibutes (‘Bidding T R a i t s )  
Creative players can think of ways to use nearly any Trait in nearly any 
challenge. Though this is most praiseworthy, players can sometimes go too far. 
To avoid this, the general rule on bidding Traits is very strict: You can only 
bid Traits from the category that best suits the nature of the challenge (i.e., 
all Traits bid are from the same category - 
Physical, Mental or Social). Even 
then, however, not all Physical Traits (or Mental or Social) are appropriate 
to all Physical (or Mental or Social) challenges. 
For example, beginners might think they can use all their Physical Traits 
in combat. This is incorrect. If your character is trying to kick someone, 
Resilient is not an appropriate Trait to bid as part of the attack. Likewise, if your 
character is trying to read an opponent’s aura, Creative might not be an 
appropriate Trait to use in a bid. 
For such an “inappropriate” Trait to be used, both parties in the challenge 
must agree to allow its usage. When an opponent bids a Trait that you feel is 


If she is insistent, reevaluate your grievance. If you still can’t agree, appeal to 
any witnesses of the contest. Then, if there is still deadlock and no one is 
willing to compromise, seek out a Narrator to make a ruling. Appeals to a 
Narrator in these situations, however, should occur very, very rarely. Learn to 
handle confrontations on your own, quickly and politely. 
To keep things simple, you can ignore the subtleties of Traits and, for 
example, use any Physical Trait in any Physical Challenge. This approach is 
particularly useful when you have a number of novice players. Eventually you 
will go beyond this boring convention and only allow players to use Traits 
appropriate to the situation at hand. This method is more complicated, but 
it can be a lot more fun. Try it out. 
Physical TRairs 
Athletic: You have conditioned your body to respond well in full-body 
Uses: Competitions, duels, running, acrobatics and grappling. 
Brawny: Bulky muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to 
Brutal: You are capable of taking nearly any action in order to survive. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. 
Dexterous: General adroitness and skill involving the use of one’s hands. 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee). Pickpocketing. Acrobatics. 
Enduring: A persistent sturdiness against physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this is a good Trait to risk as a second, 
or successive, bid. 
Energetic: A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal drive propels you 
and, in physical situations, you can draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and 
zeal. 
movements, especially in competitive events. 
inflict damage. Power lifting. All feats of strength. 
Legerdemain Arts. 
Uses: Combat. Wayfare Challenges. 
Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical determi- 
Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. 
Graceful: Control and balance in the motion and use of the entire body. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance (stepping 
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging, dancing and Wayfare Arts. 
Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile movements. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. 
nation. 
on a patch of ice, fighting on four-inch-thick rafters). 


i
i
i
 
0 
i 
y, with fast reaction time. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking. 
Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly 
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an 
Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions 
Rugged: Hardy, rough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and 
Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you enter while 
Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition. 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against over- 
Steady: More than simply physically dependable: controlled, unfaltering 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations. Piloting ships over 
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will. You often 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
Tireless: You have a runner’s stamina - 
you are less taxed by physical 
efforts than ordinary people. 
Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical 
Challenge with the same foe or foes. Primal Arts. 
Tough: A harsh, aggressive attitude and a reluctance ever to submit. 
Uses: Whenever you’re wounded or winded. 
Vigorous: A combination of energy, power, intensity and resistance to 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you’re on the defensive. 
Wiry: Tight, streamlined, muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movements. 
from bodily harm. 
that could take place over a period of time. 
pain to continue a struggle. 
injured. Primal Arts. 
whelming odds or a superior foe. 
and balanced. You have firm mastery over your actions. 
difficult waters. 
prolong physical confrontations, even when it might not be wise to do so. 
Endurance lifting. 
Negaizive Physical TRait-s 
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are 
prone to stumbling and dropping objects. 


important. You might even flee when you have the upper hand, just out of 
habit. 
Decrepit: You move and act as if you are old and infirm. You recover from 
physical damage slowly, are unable to apply full muscular strength, and tire 
easily. 
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are easily damaged by physical 
force. 
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits; you lack 
physical persistence and tend to submit rather than fight long battles. 
flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your strength 
well against resistance. 
Lame: You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can be as 
obvious as a missing leg or as subtle as a dysfunctional arm. 
Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or 
motivation. 
Puny: You are weak. This could mean diminutive size, or just substandard 
strength. 
Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds to physical stress as if it were 
in the throes of a debilitating illness. 
Social %airs 
Alluring: An attractive and appealing presence that inspires desire in 
Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
Beguiling: The skill of deception and illusion. You can twist the percep- 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Chicanery Challenges. 
Charismatic: The talent of inspiration and motivation, the sign of a 
Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leader- 
Charming: Your speech and actions make you appear attractive and 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This im- 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. Sovereign Arts. 
Compassionate: Deep feelings of care or pity for others. 
Uses: Defending the weak or downtrodden. Defeating major obstacles 
others. 
tions of others and lead them to believe what suits you. 
strong leader. 
ship. 
appealing to others. 
plies skill in the control and direction of others. 
while pursuing an altruistic end. 


honorable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well. 
Uses: Defending against Social Arts. 
Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Elegant: Refined tastefulness. Even though you don’t need coin to be 
elegant, you exude an air of wealth and class. 
Uses: High society or Seelie celebrations. Might be important in some 
courts for advancement. Sovereign Arts (and defending against them). 
Eloquent: The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing manner. 
Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. 
Empathetic: Able to identify and understand the emotions and moods of 
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. Not useful in defense against Social 
Expressive: Able to articulate thoughts in interesting, significant, mean- 
Uses: Producing art, acting, performing. Any social situation in which 
Friendly: Able to fit in with everyone you meet. After a short conversa- 
Uses: Convincing others. 
Genial: Cordial, kindly, warm and pleasant. You are pleasing to be 
Uses: Mingling at gatherings. Generally used in a second or later Social 
Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body 
Uses: Entrancing, posing. Nearly any sidhe challenge (against enchanted 
Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor of people who know you. 
Uses: Dealing with nobles in a social situation. Defending against Social 
Challenges. 
Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that causes others to 
feel timid. This Trait is particularly useful when attempting to cow oppo- 
nents. 
displeased with what you say or do. 
people with whom you come in contact. 
Challenges (might actually make it easier to affect you). 
ingful ways. 
you want someone to understand your meaning. 
tion, most find it difficult to dislike you. 
around. 
Challenge with someone. 
that is attractive to most people you meet. 
targets). 
Uses: Sovereign Arts. Inspiring common fear. Ordering others. 
Magnetic: People feel drawn to you; those around you are interested in 
Uses: Seduction. Chicanery Arts. 
your speech and actions. 


Uses: Persuading or convincing others. 
Seductive: Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and 
Uses: Subterfuge. Seduction. 
Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily to you, and you are 
Uses: At celebrations. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting 
your body to get what you want from others. 
perceived as a funny person when you want to be. 
someone. 
Negat-ive Social %aim 
Bestial: You have started to resemble something wild. Maybe you have 
claw-like fingernails, heavy body hair or a feral glint in your eyes; however this 
attribute manifests, you definitely seem inhuman. 
Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffering of 
others. Your heart is a frozen stone. 
Condescending: You just can’t help it; your contempt for others is 
impossible to hide. 
Dull: Those to whom you speak usually find you boring and uninterest- 
ing. Conversing with you is a chore. You do not present yourselfwell to others. 
Naive: You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication or maturity that 
most carry. 
Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or 
appearance. 
Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around you. Needless to 
say, you make a terrible first impression with strangers. 
Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant. 
Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others find appropriate 
Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be untrustworthy and 
to the social situation. 
unreliable (whether you are or not). 
sent-a1 TRairs 
Alert: Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly when it 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Defending against Mental Arts. 
Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. When 
something extraordinary happens, you are usually ready for it. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Seeing through Veiled Eyes when you 
don’t expect it. Preventing supernatural mind control (Dominate, Sovereign 
Arts, etc.) 
occurs. 


becoming agitated or upset. A wellspring of self-control. 
mental attack might upset you. Primarily for defense. 
Uses: Resisting frenzy or commands that provoke violence. Whenever a 
Clever: Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well on your feet. 
Uses: Using a Mental Art against another. General trickery. 
Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative. This implies an ability 
to produce unusual solutions to your difficulties. You can create artistic pieces. 
A requirement for any true artist. 
Uses: Defending against another’s plots. Creating anything. Being a 
changeling. 
Cunning: Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity. 
Uses: Tricking others. Setting up pranks. 
Dedicated: You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of 
your causes is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed. 
Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. 
Upholding an oath. 
Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully commit- 
ted. Nothing can divert your intentions to succeed once you have made up 
your mind. 
Uses: Facedowns. Useful in a normal Mental Challenge. 
Discerning: Discriminating, able to pick out details, subtleties and 
idiosyncrasies. You have clarity of vision. 
Uses: Kenning-related Challenges. 
Disciplined: Your mind is structured and controlled. This rigidity gives 
Uses: Riddling contests. Facedowns. Useful in Mental Art contests. 
Insightful: The power of looking at a situation and gaining an under- 
Uses: Investigation (but not defense against it). Seeing through Veiled 
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you withoilt 
Uses: Taking a wild guess. Seeing through Veikd Eyes. 
Knowledgeable: You know copious and detailed information about a 
Uses: Gremyre contests. Remembering information your character 
Observant: Depth of vision, the power to look at something and notice 
Uses: Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
you an edge in battles of will. 
standing of it. 
Eyes when you expect it. 
conscious reasoning, as if by instinct. 
wide variety of topics. This represents “book-learning.” 
might know. 
the important aspects of it. 


delays with composure. 
Uses: Facedowns or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. 
Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your ability to 
reduce concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Defending 
against the use of an Art with Banality. Not used as an initial bid. 
Reflective: Meditative self-recollection and deep thought. The Trait of 
the serious thinker, Refkctioe enables you to consider all aspects of a conun- 
drum. 
Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending against most 
Mental attacks. 
Shrewd: Astute and artful, able to keep your wits about you and accom- 
plish mental feats with efficiency and finesse. 
Uses: Defending against a Mental Art. Outwitting a prank in progress. 
Vigilant: Alertly watchful. You have the disposition of a guard dog; little 
Uses: Defending against investigation, Sovereign and Chicanery. Seeing 
Wily: Sly and full of guile. You can trick and deceive easily. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing mental situations. 
Wise: An overall understanding of the workings of the world. 
Uses: Giving advice. Defending against Sovereign Challenges. 
escapes your attention. 
through Veikd Eyes. More appropriate for mental defense than for attack. 
Negacive CDencal Tiairs 
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things. 
Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled. 
Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know anything. 
Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You want 
everything to go your way - 
immediately. 
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You’d be lucky if you noticed a herd 
of cattle headed straight toward you. 
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers 
can easily figure out what you intend to do next. Not a very good Trait for chess 
players. 
Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial; 
details of perception are usually lost on you. 
Submissive: You have no backbone. You relent and surrender at any cost 
rather than stand up for yourself. 
Violent An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into rages at the slightest 
provocation, and frenzy is always close to the surface. This is a Mental Trait 
because it represents mental instability. 
Witless: Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Foolish and 
slow to act when threatened. 


Advantages delineate what and whom your character knows, and are 
divided into four categories: Backgrounds, Abilities, Arts and Realms. 
Choosing b\bilities 
Abilities are the skills, talents and knowledges of a character on the live- 
roleplaying stage. While most are incorporated into The Shining Host, not 
all translate well, and others have been subsumed into Attribute Traits so as 
to be more easily performed with challenges. An Ability allows a character to 
participate in, if not dominate, a type of challenge that she would otherwise 
be unable to take part in. Additionally, if a character is defeated in such a 
challenge, she may choose to temporarily expend one level of the appropriate 
Ability to call for a retest. While any Traits risked are still considered lost, it 
is possible to win the challenge through retests in this manner, Any Ability 
levels lost in this manner are returned at the beginning of the next session. If 
a character loses all her levels in an Ability, she may not use that Ability until 
those Traits have been recovered. 
If a player wishes to demonstrate a character’s high degree of mastery in 
a particular field, or familiarity with a wide variety of specialties, she may take 
an Ability multiple times. For example, taking the Science Ability more than 
once would be the hallmark of a bright and dedicated scientist, while several 
levels of Linguistics indicates mastery of a like number of languages. 
The use of Abilities is often accompanied by a challenge of one sort or 
another. Some of these will be performed as a Static Challenge with a 
Storyteller who will not only assign the relative difficulty of a challenge 
(measured by a number of Traits), but will actually perform the test with you. 
As a rule, one or no Traits are risked for trivial things, two to four are at stake 
in novel, unusual or challenging projects, and five or more indicates a taxing 
and groundbreaking attempt in progress. More details on difficulty are 
included in each Ability’s description. Note that some Abilities, such as 
Subterfuge and Brawl, can be used directly against another player and thus do 
not often require the involvement of a Storyteller. 
Brawl - 
You are proficient at using your hands (paws, etc.) as weapons. 
You might be skilled in some form of martial art, or may have acquired your 
skill from numerous street and barroom fights. 
Computers - 
We live in an Information Age where data pulses and 
flows through silicon circuitry and fiber optic lines. With this Ability, you 
have learned many of the secrets of the digital world and can use them to your 
advantage. You can infiltrate other systems, swap data, steal business and 
science secrets and access records. A Mental Challenge is required to 
accomplish these and other similar acts, with difficulty based on system 
security and accessibility, equipment, time and the rarity of information, as 


interpreted by a Storyteller. Failure can lead to investigation by mortal and 
supernatural agencies. 
Crafts - 
This Ability imparts knowledge of master artisan techniques 
- 
woodworking, leatherwork, glassblowing, gem cutting, etc. One trade 
should be chosen each time this Ability is taken, although general craftsmen 
are not unheard of. You can make functional objects from various substances; 
the quality of these objects depends on how long you take to perform the task 
(Storyteller’s discretion), the materials available and difficulty of the task in 
question. 
Drive -A character who also has this Ability is an adept driver capable 
of tailing and avoiding tails, avoiding collisions and using her vehicle as a 
weapon. These actions often require a Physical or Mental Challenge. Factors 
influencing difficulty could include the type of vehicle, road conditions and 
the sort of stunts attempted. 
Enigmas - 
You have a knack, if not a fascination, for the perplexing 
permutations of riddles and problems of both the physical and intellectual 
varieties. When posed with a conundrum of this sort, you may request a 
Mental Challenge to gain insight (but not the solution) into the problem. 
The Storyteller may require you to risk avariable number of Traits, depending 
on the relative difficulty, character familiarity with the problem and existing 
information on the enigma. 
Firearms - 
Sometime during your existence, you have spent the time to 
familiarize yourself with a range of guns and similar projectile weapons. You 
not only understand how to operate them, but can also care for them, repair 
them and possibly make minor alterations. The most common use of this 
Ability is in combat, but a Storyteller may also allow a Mental Challenge to 
allow the character other functions, such as trick shots, hunting, etc. 
Gremayre - 
You are conversant in the knowledge of myths, legends and 
rituals of the Kithain and all things fae - 
the lifeblood and history of all 
changelings. With sufficient knowledge of this Ability, you can create new 
oaths, or even a new Art. Along with the Remembrance Background, it is an 
essential Ability to deciphering fae things, and can be used with a Mental 
Challenge to understand or remember facts about other kith, the Dreaming 
and fae society, the difficulty of which is decided by the Storyteller based on 
familiarity with the subject of the question, obscurity of the lore, etc. You may 
also use this Ability to try to counter cantrips cast against you (see cantrip 
casting rules on page 153). 
Investigation - 
You possess the learned skills of a diligent investigator. 
This sort of attention to detail is often found among private investigators, 
police officers, government agents and insurance claims personnel. In any 
case, you can often pick out or uncover details and clues that other individuals 


I
.
 
Storyteller to see if any clues have been overlooked, piece together clues or 
uncover information through formal investigation. 
Kenning - 
Kenning is the Ability of faerie sight. It is the Ability to sense 
Glamour in whatever form it takes, be it a chimera, a changeling, a cantrip, 
whatever. Although often linked with sight, this Ability doesn’t require it - 
it is an instinctive sense rather than a simple visual trick. With a successful 
use of this Ability, the user may identify a “sleeping” changeling through her 
mortal guise, sense a cantrip (and possibly who cast it), and otherwise 
determine if Glamour is in the area. For an area or item, this is typically a 
Simple Test and successful on a win or a tie; for a cantrip, chimera or freehold, 
it is a Static Mental Challenge with a Storyteller-assigned difficulty based on 
the strength of the Glamour and the pains with which it was hidden. Finally, 
to sense another changeling or a changeling “sleeping” in Banality requires a 
Mental Challenge. As a rule, any place or item marked with a green circle is 
chimerical, and can only be seen by Kithain or enchanted characters. 
Characters who are unenchanted must completely ignore all things marked 
with green circles (of course, they cannot be affected by them, either). 
Law - 
Laws, whether civil or criminal, Seelie or Unseelie, are based on 
layer upon layer of confusing tradition, precedence and procedure. Your 
experiences with it, however, allow you to make the system work for you. In 
the world of humans, you can use t h e h w  Ability to write up contracts, defend 
clients and know the rights of yourself and others. 
In the world of the fae, it can be an invaluable guide to the traditions and 
practices of the sidhe and the Seelie Court - 
or a way to save your neck if you 
find yourself the subject of a Shadow Court trial. The difficulty of the Mental 
Challenges involved depend on factors like precedence, severity of the crime, 
legal complexity of the subject and the legal action desired. 
Leadership - 
You have a gift for influencing or inspiring others. This is 
a function of confidence, bearing and a profound understanding of what 
motivates others. You may use this Ability to cause others to perform 
reasonable tasks for you. They must first be under your command or somehow 
be your subordinates. Examples include: a duchess to her court, a commander 
to his soldiers, a CEO to her employees, a gang leader to his followers, or a 
changeling to those under the effects of Sovereign cantrips such as Protocol or 
Gem. These requests cannot violate a subject’s current Legacy, and the 
subject must be defeated in a Social Challenge. If the action endangers the 
characters who would follow you, they should be given a choice, but a 
challenge can assist in roleplaying this. 
Linguistics -You have received tutelage in one or more languages other 
than your native tongue. This can be anything from ancient runes and 
hieroglyphics to common national languages or complex dialects. The 
language known must be specified when the Linguistics Ability is chosen and 


may not be changed; one new language is chosen each time the Ability i 
.
-
 
taken. This skill allows you and anyone who also knows the language to speak 
privately. Furthermore, you can translate data for yourself or others, though 
a Static Mental Challenge may be required depending upon the complexity 
of the text. 
Medicine -This Ability represents an adeptness at treating the injuries, 
diseases and various ailments of living creatures. A living being under 
treatment may recover a single Health Level per night with time and a Mental 
Challenge. The difficulty is determined by the severity and nature of the 
damage, equipment at hand and any assistance or distraction. Note that 
changelings heal much faster in a freehold than normal, but otherwise are 
considered normal humans for purposes of healing. This Ability covers 
chimerical wounds as well. Other uses include forensic information, diagnosis 
and pharmaceutical knowledge. 
B y  


of a variety of weapons, from broken bottles to swords. This skill may be the 
result of hard street lessons or more formal training, but is very handy indeed 
in the neo-feudal society of the Kithain, where chimerical duels by blade and 
other melee weapons are common. 
Occult - 
There exists, on the fringe of mundane society, a wealth of 
arcane and alternative knowledge, most of which offers enlightening insight 
into the nature of our mysterious universe. This Ability allows you to tap that 
information and use it to your advantage. Examples of these uses include, but 
are not limited to: identifying the use and nature of visible magicks, rites and 
rituals, understanding basic fundamentals of the occult and having knowl- 
edge of cults, tomes and artifacts. Most uses of the Occult Ability require a 
Static Mental Challenge based on the obscurity of the knowledge in question, 
the amount of existing data and your degree of understanding. 
Performance - 
You have the gift to make your own original creations 
and/or express these creations to your peers. The genius of your creativity or 
the power with which you convey it is determined by a Static Social 
Challenge, with a difficulty given by a Narrator. The difficulty is based on 
what you wish to achieve, your materials, the mood of your audience, etc. You 
should declare a particular field of artistic expertise each time you take this 
Ability: short stories, poetry, storytelling, playing an instrument, acting, 
singing, sculpting, dancing or any other form of artistic expression. This 
Ability may, of course, be taken more than once to indicate widespread 
artistic talent, virtuosity in a particular field or perhaps a bit of both. The 
creativity this Ability represents is vital to the sensitive, artistic Kithain - 
without art and mortals devoted to it, Glamour would become rare indeed. 
Use of this Ability is essential to Rapture and Reverie, although not necessar- 
ily for Ravaging. You may attempt to particularly impress or entrance others 
(like sensitive Toreador vampires) with a display of your art and a successful 
Social Challenge. 
Repair - 
You possess a working understanding of what makes things 
tick. With time, tools and parts, you can fix or slightly alter most of the 
trappings of modem society. This knowledge also allows you to excel at 
sabotage, should you choose to do so. Using this Ability calls for a Static 
Mental Challenge, difficulty of which depends on factors like the item’s 
complexity, tools and parts available, the extent of the damage and time spent 
on repairs. Note that this Ability can only fix and alter existing things; 
creation of new items is the domain of the Crafts Ability. 
Science -You 
have a degree of factual and practical expertise in a single 
field of the hard sciences. This knowledge will allow you to identify properties 
of your field, perform experiments, fabricate items, obtain data or access 
information a player could not normally utilize. A Static Mental Challenge 
is necessary for all but the most trivial uses of this Ability. The difficulty 
depends on resources (equipment, data, etc.) available, complexity of the task 


are Physics, Biology, Electronics and Chemistry. Other fields are allowed at 
Narrator’s discretion. 
Scrounge - 
Scrounge allows characters to produce items through con- 
nections, wits and ingenuity. Many individuals who lack the wealth to 
purchase the things they desire or need develop this Ability instead. Materials 
acquired with Scrounge aren’t always brand new or in perfect working order, 
and usually require some time to come by. However, this Ability sometimes 
works where finance or outright theft fails. A Static Mental or Social 
Challenge is necessary to use Scrounge. Some factors that influence the 
difficulty of the challenge include rarity and value of the item and local supply 
and demand. 
Security - 
You have a degree of expertise and knowledge of the variety 
of ways people defend and protect things. Not only can you counter existing 
security, such as locks, alarms and guards, but you can also determine the best 
way to secure items and areas. Other uses include breaking and entering, 
infiltration, safe-cracking and hot-wiring. Almost all applications of the 
Security Ability require a Static Mental Challenge. Difficulty depends on the 
complexity and the thoroughness of the defenses, and the time and equip- 
ment the intruder has available. 
Streetwise- With this Ability, you have a feel for the streets. You know 
its secrets and how to use its network of personalities. You can get information 
on current events on the street, deal with gangs and the homeless, and survive 
(if somewhat squalidly) without apparent income. Some uses of Streetwise 
require a Static Social Challenge influenced by such things as composition of 
the local street community, familiarity with the area and the current environ- 
ment on the street. 
Subterfuge - 
Subterfuge is an art of deception and intrigue that relies on 
a social backdrop to work. When participating in a social setting or conver- 
sation with a subject, you can attempt to draw information out of him with 
trickery and careful social probing. This includes finding out someone’s name, 
nationality, Negative Traits or friends and enemies. The first requirement to 
doing this is getting the target to say something dealing with the desired 
knowledge, such as entering a conversation about foreign cultures to deter- 
mine a subject’s nationality. If you can succeed at this, you may pose your true 
question and initiate a Social Challenge. If you win, the subject must forfeit 
his information, hopefully by roleplaying his faux pas. To use this Ability 
again, you must once again lure your target into a conversation. Furthermore, 
Subterfuge may not reveal more than one Negative Trait per session, although 
it may be used to defend against others with Subterfuge as well. 
Survival -You 
have the knowledge and the training to find food, water 
and shelter in a variety of wilderness settings. Each successful Static Mental 
or Physical Challenge allows you to provide the basic necessities for yourself 
or another living creature for one day. This Ability can be used to track or 


resources, time of year, equipment used and type of wilderness (tundra versus 
forest, etc.). 
Other possible Abilities: Animal Ken, Archery, Bureaucracy, Finance, 
History, Insmction, Lore (Kindred, Garou, Shadow Court, etc., each purchased 
separately), Meditation, Riding 
ARCS and Realms 
Arts and Realms are the areas of power faeries exercise over Glamour. 
They can be combined to create a multitude of magical effects, which are 
detailed in the Arts and Realms chapter on page 125. 
CjIamouR 
Glamour describes the daydreaming spirit - 
the enchanted, whimsical 
soul. It is worldly delight sprung whole from the seeds of creative bounty. It 
is insight created by the appreciation of beauty and the expression of the 
imagination. The ability to live in your dreams, to let yourself perceive the real 
essence of things, comes from Glamour. All things have it, even humans, but 
only the fae can make it real. 
Glamour is used in The Shining Host to exert direct control over the 
Dreaming, and is often used to fuel cantrips. Each seeming starts with a 
different amount of permanent Glamour Traits: childlings five, wilders four 
and grumps three, and more may be purchased withNegative Traits. Glamour 
appears to users of Kenning as multicolored light, and can be very easily 
detected by other changelings if the caster isn’t careful. There are many ways 
in which Glamour may be used; but a few follow here. 
Glamour may be spent to add an additional Bunk to a cantrip being cast; 
only one Bunk per cantrip may be added in this manner, and both Bunks must 
still be performed to cast the cantrip. 
Glamour may be spent to create a token to enchant a mortal or Prodigal 
to perceive Glamour, chimera and changelings’ faerie selves - 
one Trait of 
Glamour per day of enchantment, and the target must willingly accept the 
token or have it surreptitiously placed on her for the enchantment to work. 
Tokens can be anything from brownies to a tattoo to a bouquet, and should 
be represented with prop cards. 
Glamour may be used to enchant a target forcibly, without creating a 
token, either by using a technique called the Enchanted Smoke (page 183) or 
by spending a Glamour Trait and defeating the target in a direct challenge of 
the changeling’s permanent Glamour rating versus the target’s permanent 
Banality rating. The target may not actively use her Banality to gain more 
Traits in this challenge. If he succeeds, the changeling can spend one 
Glamour Trait per day of enchantment he wishes to inflict on the subject. The 
enchantment produced is identical in every other respect to the less violent 


the transition than normal. 
Glamour Traits are required while performing some cantrips; the specific 
costs are covered in Chapter 3. 
Glamour Traits must be spent to use some Birthrights or innate abilities 
of certain kith; sluagh, for example, can speak to wraiths with the expenditure 
of a Glamour Trait. 
Glamour may be gained from using dross, items that contain a measure 
of Glamour, but which possess no special power on their own. Any item that 
has intimately witnessed a great deal of creativity or history may be dross: 
moon rocks, Lincoln’s pen, unreleased Hendrix tapes, etc. Sometimes par- 
ticularly beautiful or interesting natural objects such as rocks or shells may 
contain Glamour as well. It is up to the Storyteller to determine how much 
Glamour a piece of dross has, but it usually does not exceed five Traits. A 
Kithain may choose to “use up” Glamour Traits from dross instead of spending 
her own Glamour. However, this is a one-shot deal - 
if a Kithain wants to 
use dross for its Glamour, it’s all or nothing. She cannot use one Trait and 
leave the other two for later; she must use them all at once, or any unused 
excess is lost. 
Once a Glamour Trait is spent, it can be recovered only in certain ways. 
One is the Dreamers Background, which is described on page 87. Another is 
actively experiencing a Reverie, Rapture, Ravaging or Rhapsody, which may 
yield a number of Glamour Traits as is described under the section on the three 
Epiphanies (page 189). Using dross is another -a Narrator can tell you how 
much Glamour can be gained from a piece of dross, which is consumed in some 
way in the process. Spending a restful night in a freehold or glen also gives the 
option of recovering either a Trait of Willpower or Glamour. Finally, some 
oaths may give temporary or even permanent Glamour Traits, although the 
cost of failure is equally high, and the casual swearing of oaths for this purpose 
is severely frowned upon by both Courts. 
UliIIporueR 
Within each of us is the ability to do incredible things. A determined 
individual can even fight off Death itself if she truly has the will to live. In The 
Shining Host, this ability to do the nigh-impossible is governed by a Trait 
known as Willpower. This Trait gives a character the extra strength necessary 
to succeed in the direst of circumstances, and is often required by many 
Advanced Arts as well. You start play with one to three Willpower Traits, 
depending on your character’s seeming, although you can gain more by 
purchasing Negative Traits (see below). 
Willpower can be used to replenish all traits lost in a session in any one 
category: Physical, Social or Mental. 


.
-
 
and including Incapacitated and chimerical wounds, for the entire duration 
of one challenge. 
Willpower can be expended to ignore the effects of one Social or Mental 
Challenge; this includes Arts or the supernatural abilities of Prodigals 
requiring such challenges. This usage must be declared before the result of the 
challenge is determined. 
Willpower can be spent to retain self-control or courage in the face of 
overwhelming temptation, rage or fear. This lasts until the source of the 
emotion is gone or 10 minutes have passed, whichever comes first. 
A Willpower Trait can be spent to succeed automatically at a Simple or 
Static Challenge. 
Once Willpower has been spent, it is gone for the remainder of the story. 
At that time, all the Willpower spent is regained. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, a character who is roleplaying her Legacy, Negative Traits or 
Derangements well may receive a Willpower Trait, and resting in a freehold 
restores a Trait of either Willpower or Glamour each night. If a particularly 
long time passes in the game between sessions, the Storyteller may rule 
Willpower is regained in the interim. Finally, some oaths may also give 
temporary or even permanent Willpower Traits, although the cost of failure 
is equally high, and the casual swearing of oaths for this purpose is severely 
frowned upon by both Courts. 
‘Banal i CLJ 
This Trait describes the extent to which the mortal world has infected 
your soul. If your Banality exceeds your Glamour at the end of a story (not a 
session), you are in danger of losing the memory of your faerie self and will 
gradually revert to your mortal seeming until some other Kithain can rescue 
you and remind you of what you are. This lapse in your fae life is known as the 
Forgetting. Those who gain 10 permanent Banality Traits or otherwise have 
their fae souls completely suppressed are said to be Undone, a fate far worse 
than death to a changeling. Banality itself is an aura of frigid disbelief, a denial 
of the inherent magic and wonder of life - 
it is anti-Glamour, and refuses to 
accept any traces of imagination in its clean, scrubbed-up version of reality 
(hence the Mists). You start with one to five Banality Traits, depending on 
your seeming, and may gain more during the game. It can be gained or used 
in the following ways: 
Banality may be used to resist cantrips. By declaring you are using your 
Banality to resist a cantrip, you receive additional Traits on the challenge 
equal to the number of permanent Banality Traits that you have - 
one for 
a Banality of one, seven for a Banality of seven, etc. However, such a banal 
action immediately earns you a Trait of temporary Banality, regardless of the 
outcome of the challenge. 


. .  
carries, such as a troll failing to stoop when his mortal self passes through a 
doorway too small for him or, or swinging a chimerical sword through the wall 
of areal-world location. This usually earns the offender one Trait of temporary 
Banality per instance. 
Banality can be arbitrarily assigned to you if aNarrator feels you are acting 
too banal, usually no more than a temporary Trait at a time. You may attempt 
to arbitrate with the Storyteller on this, but in the end her word is final. 
Banality is gained for destroying treasures, using dross improperly or 
killing certain chimera - 
usually a temporary Trait or so per offense, 
depending on the power of the chimera, treasure or dross in question. 
Banality is always assigned for killing another changeling’s faerie form - 
one temporary Trait. If you actually kill another changeling’s mortal form, 
you automatically earn at least two temporary Traits of Banality. If you do the 
deed with cold iron, you can expect a permanent Trait of Banality. 
A permanent Banality Trait can be gained if your temporary Banality 
Traits ever exceed 10 in number. The 10 are exchanged for another perma- 
nent Trait, thus marking your slow decline into mundanity. You must 
approach a Narrator when this is the case. If you ever acquire 10 permanent 
Banality Traits, your fae has been Undone and permanently forgets her faerie 
self. No amount of Glamour can save her; you must wait until her next lifetime 
to reawaken her fae spirit. (In the meantime, creating another character 
works well.) 
Banality inevitably creeps over your faerie soul, no matter how hard you 
resist. When you gain temporary Glamour Traits, such as from the Dreamers 
Background or an Epiphany, you may decline to accept the Trait in exchange 
for disposing of a temporary Banality Trait on a one-for-one Trait basis (this 
is the only time in the game such an exchange can be made). You may also 
ask at any time to suffer a Nightmare instead of taking a temporary Banality 
Trait, but you will then be subjected to whatever twisted aspect of the 
Dreaming the Storyteller feels is appropriate to the level of Banality being 
“dodged.” Everything from a persistent cough to an ever-present chill breeze 
to terrible hallucinations can be visited on you at this time, with the effect 
lasting for as long a time as the Storyteller considers appropriate. A character 
may only be under the effect of one Nightmare at a time, however, which 
means you cannot take advantage of this rule in order to dodge every single 
assignment of Banality. Finally, some quests are said to be able to reduce a 
character’s permanent Banality rating, but these seekings are truly epic in 
scope, and result in the gain of even more permanent Banality if failed. 
backg~ounds 
These Traits determine certain things about your character and your 
character’s past, such as what chimera you might possess, whether or not you 
are a noble, what powerful mortal friends and contacts you have, etc. They are 


their character concepts, not mini-maxing to create the perfect super- 
characters. Furthermore, some Backgrounds may be lost as the result of a story 
(a mortal Ally dies, a Treasure is lost), but most can’t be bought with 
experience points. A Background lost, then, is usually lost forever. 
Once play begins, Backgrounds are gained as a result of actions, not 
points (a Titk is conferred, a Companion is gained). A Storyteller should be 
consulted if a player feels she has earned the right to purchase and/or be 
granted a new Background. 
Ch’ imera 
This Background allows you to possess a chimerical object of some kind. 
While every changeling can imagine himself a basic chimerical costume for 
his fae mien at no cost, any practical or usable items (those which require item 
cards, which always includes workable weapons and armor) in addition to 
costuming require purchasing this Background. Chimerical items are always 
much more striking than their mundane counterparts, and anything from a 
simple longsword or diary to a full suit of sci-fi movie bounty hunter armor or 
a woven tapestry of dreams can be owned. However, an item’s actual power 
and usefulness is determined by how many Traits of this Background you take. 
1 - 
A basic chimera (a conversation piece) 
2 - 
A minor chimera (a chimera with some benefits) 
3 - 
A useful chimera (a chimera with some impressive benefits) 
4 - 
A significant chimera (a powerful item) 
5 - 
An incredible chimera (a legendary relic) 
The Storyteller is still the final arbiter ofwhat kind of items may be taken 
with this Background, and should generally be consulted about chimera of 
three or higher for approval, as they can have quite an impact on a chronicle. 
Note that living chimera are the province of the Companion Background, 
below. This Background may be taken more than once to reflect owning more 
than one item. 
Companion 
This Background allows you to have living chimerical friends and 
companions, most likely the same ones who helped you through your 
Chrysalis. The Storyteller should be consulted as to the Traits and Abilities 
your Companion might have, although he need not tell you all of them at first, 
and the more powerful you make the Companion the more of an independent 
mind it will have. However your Companion may appear, his general aspect is 
indicated by the number of Traits you put into the Background: 
1 - 
A basic companion (intelligence up to the level of a dog; no Arts) 
2 -A minor companion (human intellect, some minor powers; no Arts) 
3 - 
A useful companion (smarter than you; a level of an Art) 
4 - 
A significant companion (quite bright; several levels of Arts) 


strong?) 
This Background, like Chimera, may be taken more than once for 
additional Companions. In any case, Companions should be represented by 
cards or other props that are clearly marked and placed where they would be 
visible (to Kenning, anyway). 
Dreamers 
This Background demonstrates a connection with certain mortals whom 
you regularly patronize in order to gain Glamour. These mortals can also 
perform a number of services (mostly artistic) for you, and are friendly 
(although they are not your servants or your true friends, and under no 
compunction to obey your orders). You may gain a number of Glamour Traits 
equal to the number of Traits you placed into this Background once per 
session - 
this takes at least 15 minutes per Trait, and possibly more 
depending on who and where the artists in question are in the context of your 
game location. You must, of course, remain out of character during this time. 
You should detail who these artists are, where they live, what artistic mediums 
they use, and how you came to be their friend, as it may become important in 
the chronicle at a future date. This Glamour-gaining is assumed to be benign 
Reverie; you may attempt to gain more Glamour or use this Background more 
often than once per session, but you risk accidentally ( ?) Ravaging and drying 
up your source at Narrator discretion. 
Remembrance 
This Background is your unconscious memory of Arcadia, as well as your 
intuitive knowledge of the fae and of your previous incarnations. Any time 
you need to know something general about the fae (no questions about other 
characters), you may expend a level of Remembrance and make a Simple Test. 
On a win, you are struck with a realization, usually of what you needed to 
know, but not always. A Narrator must answer the question, although the 
presentation of it may be quite cryptic in nature. You may also use this 
Background to retest Gremayre Challenges, although doing so in this manner 
gives you no visions or any other special insight. All expended levels cannot 
be recovered until a good night’s sleep has come. 
Holdings 
You are the heir/owner of a faerie freehold of some type. The number of 
points put into it equals the rating of the freehold (not to exceed five) and how 
much Glamour can be gained from it daily (one Trait per Background level, 
per night). Furthermore, while within a freehold, Kithain do not age, and 
don’t have to contest with Banality when performing their cantrips (although 
it can still be invoked as an active defense). Spending too much time in a 
freehold is a quick ticket to Bedlam, however. Putting one Trait into this 
Background indicates a tiny freehold, barely scraping by, while three would 
be a thriving local Kithain center, and five is something that recollects the 


built around freeholds, you and the Storyteller must work together to detail 
the freehold: its politics, its regulars, its powers, and its mundane and 
chimerical appearance. Keep in mind that the more powerful the holding, the 
less likely it is to be held by commoners or low nobles, although it would not 
be unheard of. This Background may be “pooled” by several characters to 
create a powerful freehold, although it is up to the players to then determine 
details of ownership, rulership and the like. 
Influence 
A Kithain with Traits in the Influence Background has gained a certain 
degree of control in aspects of normal human society. While many Kithain 
avoid taking such an active role in human affairs, fearing the Banality of such 
high-pressure positions, other fae see it as a way to take the fight against 
Winter to the very heart of the enemy, and a means of keeping Dauntain and 
Autumn People away from Kithain centers. Influence can also be seen as access 
to contacts, minor allies or even kinain (humans with fae blood) in the field. 
Possible areas of influence are listed on page 9 1. 
One level of one area of Influence may be chosen for each Trait put into 
this Background. Note that Influence does not give you knowledge of a 
particular area (Abilities do that), but at the least it gives you power over those 
who have such knowledge. Certain Influences are often considered too banal 
by most Kithain (Finance, Industry), and are notably ill-populated by the fae 
folk, while others (Occult, High Society) are relatively common. A character 
with Influence is usually given cards, one for each level of each Influence, to 
represent their ability to get things done in their field, or to be able to loan 
them to other people as “favors.” Characters may expend Influence Traits to 
accomplish goals relating to a specific aspect of mortal society. The actual 
charts for Influence levels are at the end of this section. 
Mentor 
This Background denotes a mentor who looks after and guides you in 
some fashion. Typically, he was assigned to guide you through the changes 
during and after your Chrysalis, and you two have stayed friends. The specifics 
are up to you, however. 
Your mentor can provide many benefits: guiding you away from danger- 
ous situations you might be getting into, speaking on your behalf to more 
powerful changelings, and of course providing you with lots of advice. You 
may occasionally be asked to perform favors for your mentor, but usually you 
get more from it than you have to do directly in return. The Storyteller or a 
Narrator will most likely play your mentor, so you must ask permission to take 
this Background; keep in mind that your mentor cannot perform noble favors 
for you, as that is the domain of the Patron Background. 
Another player might also be allowed to act as a mentor, with the 
permission of the Storyteller. The Traits you spend roughly determine about 


- 
- - 
who knows‘little but is constantly around can of as muchuse as one who knows 
everything but who lives in the Deep Dreaming and can only be contacted 
once every lunar cycle): 
1 - 
Mentor knows little of import. 
2 - 
Mentor has noteworthy pieces of information. 
3 - 
Mentor has significant secrets to share. 
4 - 
Mentor has extraordinary knowledge to pass along. 
5 - 
If your mentor doesn’t know it, it ain’t worth knowing. 
This is an ideal Background for beginning players in many ways, as a 
mentor can help steer them away from situations more experienced players 
naturally avoid. 
Patron 
This Background details a particular noble who has taken a liking to you, 
and who thus favors you over her other subjects; you and she are friends. She 
may render you favors in times of need, although services will sometimes be 
required of you in return, and the two of you must be careful that this 
favoritism is not too public in nature -jealous changelings of all types would 
soon descend en m s e  to correct the impropriety. Most likely, this Patron 
should be a Storyteller or Narrator character, although another player is 
possible, with her consent. Note that this Background does not imply the 
same relationship as the Mentor Background, although they may be combined 
to create a friendly noble mentor who’s willing to use her influence on your 
behalf. The number of Traits expended equals the rank of the noble who is 
your patron - 
one for a knight or lady, two for a baronlbaroness, three for a 
count/countess, four for a dukekduchess, five for a king/queen. (Talk to the 
Storyteller about that last one in particular.) 
Political Connections 
This Background is not quite the same as Titk or Influence, but rather a 
little of both - 
you are the appointed representative and spokesman for a 
freehold or mew of some kind, and as such are something of an ambassador. 
You can expect to be taken in and treated reasonably well by most nobles, and 
while you certainly do not have diplomatic immunity, you are most likely 
forgiven minor faux pas that would get others in trouble. However, as a 
member of the Parliament of Dreams, you must attend as many sessions of that 
body as you can, which may limit somewhat your options for adventuring. (It 
is normally assumed that your character spends some of his “down time” in- 
between sessions attending these meetings.) The laws, coalitions, and 
movements of Concordian politics are fairly well known to you and you have 
a voice, small as it may be, in how they are shaped. The Traits put in this 
Background represent how strong a freehold/mew you represent. 
1 - 
Very small freehold/medium-size mew 
2 - 
Small freehold/large mew 


4 - 
Large freehold 
5 - 
How did you land this cushy job? 
Title 
This Background denotes your rank in changeling society. Not all 
Kithain have a title; in fact, few rise above the rank of squire, if they attain any 
title at all. Title bestows little in the way of actual power, but is an important 
source of social influence. You receive one Status Trait per level of Title, 
which can be used in place of a normal Trait in a Social Challenge and adds 
to your total Social Traits in the event of a tie or overbid. 
Status Traits should be written in the category for regular Social Traits, 
with a “(T)” notation next to it. This is one of the few ways to gain Status in 
Kithain society, although being given honors by the king or duke is another 
such method. (If you wish to start play with Status but no title, you must take 
it with freebie points or Negative Traits, and a good story.) You need not have 
Holdings to be a noble; this is in fact more and more common as land (and 
freeholds) becomes rare on Earth. Sidhe characters are required to have at 
least one point in Title. The number of Traits you invest determines your title 
and the Status Trait that usually accompanies each particular station. 
1 - 
Squire (Loyal) 
2 - 
Knightbady (Valiant/Noble) 
3 - 
Baron/Baroness (Wise) 
4 - 
Count/Countess (Trusted) 
5 - 
Duke/Duchess (Exalted/Cherished) 
Treasure 
This Background represents a chimera or a physical item you possess that 
is imbued with Glamour, and which can perform feats equal to the Arts and 
Realms it was invested with. This Background may be taken more than once 
to reflect ownership of more than one treasure. The number of levels of 
Treasure reflects how potent a device you possess: 
1 - 
A minor treasure (a glowing rock) 
2 - 
A useful treasure (a magic herring that cuts down trees) 
3 - 
A treasure of significant power (a blade that cuts chimera as well) 
4 - 
A very powerful treasure (a circlet of command over mortals) 
5 - 
An incredibly powerful treasure (a horn that summons dragons) 
You should work with the Storyteller to determine what your treasure 
does, how you can use it, and if it has any requirements for its use (spending 
Glamour, certain words or phrases, being covered in gold cloth, etc.) -very 
often the most potent treasures have strict requirements on their use, and it 
is very common for rulers to cast Protocol on potent items to prevent their 
misuse. However, in general, let your imagination run wild. 


This Background represents your access to a trod that is open at least 
semi-regularly, and is relatively safe. You do not need the Holdings Back- 
ground to take Trod, though combining the two is very appropriate. Trods are 
tied to the cycles of nature, and thus may not be used as “changeling subways” 
for player convenience all the time; the Storyteller will decide when and how 
they can be used, although player suggestions can be welcome. However, 
when a trod is usable, traveling to the trod’s destination takes one-fourth 
normal time. (The Storyteller should be contacted when a trod is being used, 
usually to describe the journey itself and assign travel time.) The points put 
in it determine the regularity and destination of the trod(s). 
1 - 
One local destination, accessible one-fourth of the time 
2 - 
One local destination, accessible half the time, or 2-3 local destina 
tions, accessible one-fourth the time, or one local destination open 
all the time 
3 -2-3 local destinations and one regional half the time; or 2-3 local, one 
regional, and one Near Dreaming, accessible one-fourth of the time; 
or 2-3 local, accessible all the time 
4-44-5 local, two regional, one national (e.g., Concordia) and twoNear 
Dreaming accessible half the time; or 4-5 local, two regional, one 
national, one Near Dreaming, one Far Dreaming, accessible one- 
fourth the time; or 2-3 local and one regional, all the time; or 2-3 
local, one regional, and one Near Dreaming, half the time 
5 -5-6 local, three-four regional, two national, two Near Dreaming, one 
Deep Dreaming, half the time; or 4-5 local, 4-5 regional, four 
national, two Near Dreaming, two Far Dreaming, one Deep Dream 
ing, one-fourth the time; or 2-3 local, one regional and one Near 
Dreaming, all the time. 
InFluence Chams 
To use Influence actively, you should explain to the Narrator what sort 
of effect you wish to create with your Influence. The Narrator then decides the 
Trait cost, the time involved (both real and in-game) and any tests required 
to achieve the Influence effect. Influence Traits used this way are temporarily 
considered to have been expended and are not recovered until the next 
session. The effects of using Influence can be instantaneous and brief, or slow 
to manifest and permanent, depending on the nature of the manipulation and 
the degree of power the character wields. 
The difficulty of a task is set by a Narrator, and equals the number of 
Influence Traits that must be expended to accomplish the task. A given 
chore’s difficulty can be subject to sudden change, depending upon circum- 
stance. The suggested guideline listed along with each area of Influence can 


change dramatically between chronicles or even between sessions. After all, 
you may not be the only Kithain attempting to Influence something. 
Sometimes a Narrator will require a challenge of some sort to represent 
the uncertainty or added difficulty involved when exercising Influence. Some 
uses of Influence may not actually cost Influence to use, but rather require that 
the Kithain simply possess a certain level of the Influence in question. 
Kithain can trade Influences with each other much like children swap 
toys. These trades may be permanent or temporary. In the case of permanent 
trades, the old owner erases the Trait from his sheet and turns over the 
appropriate Influence card (if your chronicle uses these) to the new owner. 
The new owner then records her newly acquired Influence Trait on her 
character sheet. Temporary trades of Influence occur when a Kithain is 
merely doing a favor or loaning her Influence to someone else. In this case, the 
owner does not erase the Trait, but instead makes a note that it is no longer 
in her possession. The holder of the Influence Trait may use it immediately 
or hold onto to it until she feels she needs it. However, the original owner of 
the Influence Trait may not regain the Trait until the current holder expends 
or voluntarily returns it. 
Sometimes characters may wish to try to counteract the Influence of 
other characters. In such cases, it generally costs one Trait per Trait being 
countered. The Kithain willing to expend the most Influence Traits (assum- 
ing she has them to spend) achieves her goal; all Traits used in this sort of 
conflict are considered expended. 
In practice, the use of Influence is never instantaneous and rarely 
expedient. While a character may be able to, say, condemn any building in the 
city, it will not be tom down that night. For sake of game flow, aNarrator may 
allow trivial uses of Influence to only take half an hour. Major manipulations, 
on the other hand, can become the center of ongoing plots requiring several 
sessions to bring to fruition. 
The guidelines below by no means limit the number of Influence Traits 
that can be spent at one time or the degree of change a character may bring 


costs of certain actions. 
generally be accomplished without expending an Influence Trait. 
Actions followed by an asterisk (*) below indicate that their effects can 
Bureaucracy 
The organizational aspects of local, state or even federal government fall 
within the character’s sphere of control. She can bend and twist the tangle of 
rules and regulations that seem necessary to run our society as she sees fit. The 
character may have contacts or allies among government clerks, supervisors, 
utility workers, road crews, surveyors and numerous other civil servants. 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills* 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license; Disconnect a 
residence’s utilities; Close a small road or park; Get public 
aid ($250) 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card; Close a 
public school for a single day; Turn a single utility on a 
block on or off; Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Initiate a phone tap; Initiate a department-wide investiga 
tion; Fake land deeds 
Start, stopor alteracity-wide programor policy; Shutdown 
a big business on a violation; Rezone areas; Obliterate 
records of a person on a city and county level 
Arrange a fixed audit of a person or business 
Church 
Not even churches are without politics and intrigue upon which an 
opportunistic person may capitalize. Church Influence usually only applies to 
mainstream faiths. Sometimes other practices fall under the Occult Influence. 
Contacts and allies affected by Church Influence include: ministers, bishops, 
priests, activists, evangelists, witch-hunters, nuns and various church attend- 
ees and assistants. 
1 
3 
4 
5 
6 
cost 
Desired Effect 
Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local 
area; Pass as a member of the clergy;* Peruse general church 
records (baptism, marriage, burial, etc.) 
Identify higher church members; Track regular members; 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church; Find the average church- 
associated hunter; Dip into the collection plate ($250); 
Access to private information and archives of a church 
Discredit or suspend high-level members; Manipulate re 
gional branches 
2 
3 
4 


... . 
knowledge 
Borrow or access church relics or sacred items 
Use the resources of a diocese 
6 
7 
Finance 
The world teems with the trappings of affluence and stories of the rich 
and famous. Those with the Finance Influence speak the language of money 
and know where to find capital. They have a degree of access to banks, 
megacorporations and the truly wealthy citizens of the world. Such characters 
also have a wide variety of servants to draw on, such as CEOs, bankers, 
corporate yes-men, financiers, bank tellers, stock brokers and loan agents. 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
Earn money; Learn about major transactions and financial 
events; Raise capital ($1,000); Learn about general eco 
nomic trends;* Learn real motivations for many financial 
actions of others 
Trace an unsecured small account; Raise capital to pur 
chase a small business (single, small store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a single 
large store or service) 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some credit 
rating alterations); Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect of citywide banking (shut off ATMs, 
arrange a bank “holiday”); Ruin a large business; Purchase 
a major company 
Spark an economic trend; Instigate widespread layoffs 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Health 
In our modem world, a myriad of organizations and resources exists to 
deal with every mortal ache and ill, at least in theory. The network of health 
agencies, hospitals, asylums and medical groups is subject to exploitation by 
someone with Health Influence. Nurses, doctors, specialists, lab workers, 
therapists, counselors and pharmacists are just a few of the workers within the 
health field. 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
Access a person’s healthrecords;* Fake vaccination records 
and the like; Use public functions of health centers at your 
leisure 
Access to some medical research records; Have minor lab 
work done; Get a copy of coroner’s report 
Instigate minor quarantines; Corrupt results of tests or 
inspections; Alter medical records 
2 
3 


4 
Acquire a body; Completely rewrite medical records; Abus 
grants for personal use ($250); Have minor medical re- 
search performed on a subject; Institute large-scale 
quarantines; Shut down businesses for “health code viola 
tions” 
Have special research projects performed; Have people 
institutionalized or released 
5 
High Society 
An clique of people exists, who, by virtue of birth, possessions, talent or 
quirks of fate, hold themselves above the great unwashed masses. High Society 
allows the character to direct and use the energies and actions of this 
exceptional mass of talents. Among the ranks of the elite, one can find 
dilettantes, the old rich, movie and rock stars, artists of all sorts, wannabes, 
fashion models and trend-setters. 
cost 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Industry 
Desired Effect 
Learn what is trendy;* Obtain “hard to get” tickets for 
shows; Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before 
they are made public* 
Track most celebrities and luminaries; Be a local voice in 
the entertainment field; “Borrow” $1,000 as idle cash from 
rich friends 
Crush promising careers; Hobnob well above your station* 
Minor celebrity status 
Get a brief appearance on a talk show that’s not about to be 
canceled; Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other high 
society gathering 
The dark world of the Gothic-Punk milieu is built by pumping and 
grinding machinery and the toil of endless laborers. A character with the 
lndushy Influence has her fingers in this pie. Industry is composed of union 
workers, foremen, engineers, contractors, construction workers and manual 
laborers. 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
2 
Learn about industrial projects and movements* 
Have minor projects performed; Dip into union funds or 
embezzle petty cash ($500); Arrange small accidents or 
sabotage 
Organize minor strikes; Appropriate machinery for a short 
time 
Close down a small plant; Revitalize a small plant 
Cut off production of a single resource in a small region 
3 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
6 


There are those who quietly tip the scales, even in the hallowed halls of 
justice, and the courts, law schools, law firms and justice bureaus within them. 
Inhabiting these halls are lawyers, judges, bailiffs, clerks, district attorneys and 
ambulance chasers. 
1 
2 
3 
cost 
Desired Effect 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charges; Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and contracts, 
court dates) Access public or court funds ($250); Get 
representation in most court cases 
Issue subpoenas; Tie up court cases; Have most legal 
charges dropped; Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations; Have 
deportation proceedings held against someone 
4 
5 
Media 
The media serves as the eyes and ears of the world. While few in this day 
and age doubt that the news is not corrupted, many would be surprised at who 
closes these eyes and covers these ears from time to time. The media entity is 
composed of station directions, editors, reporters, anchors, camera people, 
photographers and radio personalities. 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
2 
3 
Learn about breaking stories early;* Submit small articles 
(within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports; Get hold 
of investigative reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports; Get project 
funding and waste it ($250); Access media production 
resources; Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
4 
Occult 
Most people are curious about the supernatural world and the various 
groups and beliefs that make up the occult subculture, but few consider it 
anything but a hoax, a diversion or a curiosity. This could not be farther from 
the truth. Occult Influence, more than any other, hits the Garou close to home 
and could very well bring humanity to its senses about just who and what 
shares this world with them. The occult community contains cult leaders, 
alternative religious groups, charlatans, would-be occultists and New Agers. 
Contact and make use of common occult groups and their 
practices; Know some of the more visible occult figures* 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 


figures;* Access resources for most rituals and rites 
Know the general vicinity of certain supernatural entities 
(Kindred, Garou, mages, mummies, wraiths, etc.) and 
possibly contact them; Can access vital or very rare mate 
rial components; Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks 
($250); Access occult tomes and writings; Researcha Basic 
Ritual 
Access minor magic items; Unearth an Advanced Ritual 
Research a new or unheard-of ritual or rite from tomes or 
mentors 
3 
4 
Research an Intermediate Ritual 
5 
6 
Police 
“To protect and serve” is a popular motto among the chosen enforcers of 
the law. But these days, everyone can have reason to doubt the law’s ability 
to enact justice. Perhaps they should wonder whom the law defends, whom 
it serves, and why. The Police Influence encompasses the likes of beat cops, 
desk jockeys, prison guards, special divisions (such as SWAT and homicide), 
detectives and various clerical positions. 
CostDesired Effect 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Learn police procedures;* Hear police information and 
rumors; Avoid traffic tickets 
Have license plates checked; Avoid minor violations (first 
conviction); Get “inside information” 
Get copies of an investigation report; Have police hassle, 
detain or harass someone; Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband; Have some 
serious charges dropped; Start an investigation; Get money, 
either from the evidence room or as an appropriation 
($1,000) 
Institute major investigations; Arrange setups; Instigate 
bureau investigations; Have officers fired 
Paralyze departments for a time; Close down a major 
investigation 
5 
6 
Politics 
Nothing ever gets done for straightforward reasons any more. It’s all who 
knows who and what favors can get paid off in the process. In other words, it’s 
politics as usual, and there’s a whole class of people who thrive in this world 
of favors and policy flacks. Some of these individuals include statesmen, 
pollsters, activists, party members, lobbyists, candidates and politicians 
themselves. 


1 
2 
Minor lobbying; Identify real platforms of politicians and 
parties;* Be in the know* 
Meet small-time politicians; Have a forewarning of pro 
cesses, laws and the like; Use a slush fund or fund raiser 
($1,000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, renovations, 
small construction) 
Enact minor legislation; Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office; Enact encompassing 
legislature 
Block the passage of major bills; Suspend major laws 
temporarily; Use state bureaus or subcommittees 
Usurp county-wide politics; Subvert statewide powers, at 
least to a moderate degree 
Call out a local division of the National Guard; Declare a 
state of emergency in a region 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
Street 
Disenchanted, disenfranchised and ignored by their “betters,” a whole 
collective of humanity has made its own culture and lifestyle to deal with the 
harsh lot life has dealt them. In the dark alleys and slums reside gang members, 
the homeless, street performers, petty criminals, prostitutes and the forgotten. 
Has an ear open for the word on the street; Identify most 
gangs and know their turfs and habits 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of society; Keep 
a contact or two in most aspects of street life; Access small- 
time contraband 
Often gets insight on other areas of Influence; Arrange 
some services from street people or gangs; Get pistols or 
uncommon melee weapons 
Mobilize groups of homeless; Panhandle or hold a “collec- 
tion” ($250); Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG; 
Respected among gangs, can have a word in almost all 
aspects of their operations 
Control a single medium-sized gang; Arrange impressive 
protests by street people 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Transportation 
The world is in constant motion, its prosperity relying heavily on the fact 
that people and productions fly, float or roll to and from every comer of the 
planet. Without the means to perform this monumental task, our “small” 
world would quickly become a daunting orb with large, isolatedstretches. The 


forces that keep this circulation in motion include cab and bus drivers, pi1 
air traffic controllers, travel firms, sea captains, conductors, border guards 
untold others. 
Cost 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Desired Effect 
A wizard at what goes where, when and why; Can travel 
locally quickly and freely” 
Can track an unwary target ifhe uses public transportation; 
Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from mundane 
threats (robbery, terrorism, etc.) 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel; Avoid 
most supernatural dangers when traveling (such as hunters 
and vampires) 
Temporarily shut down one form of transportation (bus 
lines, ships, planes, trains, etc.); Route money your way 
($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel; Smuggle with impunity 
Extend control to nearby areas 
Isolate small or remote regions for a short period 
Underworld 
Even in the most cosmopolitan of ages, society has found certain needs 
and services too questionable to accept. On every age, some organized effort 
has stepped in to provide for this demand, regardless of the risks. Among this 
often ruthless and dangerous crowd are the likes of hitmen, Mafia, Yakuza, 
bookies, fencers and launderers. 
cost 
Desired Effect 
1 
2 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, petty 
gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen cars; Hire muscle to 
rough someone up; Fence minor loot; Prove that crime pays 
(and score $1,000) 
3 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG; Arrange a minor “hit”; 
Know someone in “the Family” 
4 
White collar crime connections 
5 
Arrange gangland assassinations; Hire a demolition man or 
firebug; Supply local drug needs 
University 
In an age when the quest for learning and knowledge begins in schools, 
colleges and universities, information becomes currency. University Influence 
represents a certain degree of control and perhaps involvement in these 
institutions. In this sphere of Influence, one finds the teachers, professors, 
deans, students of all ages and levels, Greek orders and many young and 
impressionable minds. 


1 
Know layout and policy of local schools;* Access to low- 
level university resources; Get records up to the high school 
level 
Know a contact or two with useful knowledge or skills; 
Minor access to facilities; Fake high school records; Obtain 
college records 
Faculty favors; Cancel a class; Fix grades; Discredit a 
student 
Organize student protests and rallies; Discredit faculty 
members; Acquire money through a grant ($1,000) 
Arrange major projects; Alter curriculum institution-wide; 
Free run of facilities 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
6 
Scep FOUR - Finishing Touches 
Negacive TRaics 
At this point, you may increase your character’s power by selecting 
counterbalancing flaws. By taking aNegative Trait, you can, for example, add 
a new Trait to your Attributes or take another Ability. Negative Traits are 
Attributes that have a negative effect upon your character. They can be used 
against you in a challenge (a contest staged between you and other charac- 
ters). Each Negative Trait is equal to one positive Trait; for each Negative 
Trait you take, you receive a positive Trait of your choice. You can take no 
more than five Negative Traits unless you have the Narrator’s permission. 
You can take whatever Negative Traits seem to fit your character; you need 
not take the full five, or any at all. 
Each Negative Trait you take allows you to choose one of the following 
options: 
Take one additional positive Trait in any category of Attribute: Physical, 
Social or Mental. 
Take one extra Ability or Background 
Optional: Your Narrator may allow you other options for modifying your 
Three Negative Traits allow the purchase of one Basic Art. 
Two Negative Traits allow the purchase of one level of a Realm. 
character. Possible options are: 
Healch 
Characters are considered to be at full health at the beginning of each 
story unless the Narrator states otherwise. Of course, characters can be hurt 
or even destroyed during a story, and changelings must keep track of both 
damage to their fae and human forms during the course of an evening’s play. 


and “Incapacitated,” and changelings have identical levels for both mortal 
and fae miens. For more information on Health, see page 166. 
Characters do not consist of Traits alone. Other aspects, such as motiva- 
tions and secrets - 
while not necessarily important in terms of game 
mechanics - 
are vital to roleplaying. In many cases, the Narrator provides, 
or at least suggests, these “sparks of life” for you. Your character needs to be 
woven into the story, and these flourishes allow the Narrator to do just that. 
Background Story -You need to create a background narrative for your 
character, describing her life before the Chrysalis: what she did, how she lived 
and what was unique about her. This background may describe what your 
character did for a living, how she saw herself and what others thought of her. 
It will probably influence who she is now - 
indeed, changelings must still 
cling to their former lives as protection from Bedlam. 
Secrets - 
Each character has secrets of some sort, things that he doesn’t 
want others to discover. One secret almost all changelings possess is a True 
Name, learned upon Saining, but this is hardly the only secret a changeling 
can have. The Narrator is likely to give you any number of secrets that you will 
need to protect over the course of the chronicle. 
Motivations - 
Changelings are creatures of emotion. What is your 
purpose? What motivates you on a day-to-day basis? Is it hate, fear, lust, greed, 
jealousy or revenge? Describe your motivations in as much detail as possible; 
ask the Narrator for help if you can’t think of anything. 
Appearance - 
Find props and a costume that will help others under- 
stand or at least recognize your character at a glance. You may find it helpful 
not only to act like your character, but to look like him as well - 
especially 
if you’re playing multiple roles in a single chronicle. Your character’s appear- 
ance makes his Physical (and many Social) Traits apparent to other characters. 
You may want to get a “fantasy feel” for your costumes, to reflect your 
character’s faerie nature. Good resources for these fashions are local renais- 
sance faires and consignment stores - 
there you’ll find flowing gowns, 
tunic-type shirts and anything else you feel will add flair to your character’s 
wardrobe. Remember, however, the restriction on weapons still applies to all 
costumes, no matter what your chructer might be carrying. 
Equipment -Your 
character likely begins the game with equipment of 
one sort or another. Ask a Narrator for more details on your personal 
possessions and assets. If you want to spend money on equipment right away, 
feel free. Changelings must also specify whether or not their equipment is 
mundane or chimerical, as this designation will determine whether it can 


horses - 
anything. Use an appropriate reference book for prices, or approxi- 
mate. 
Owning items with magical powers falls under the Background stage of 
character creation. (By the way, be sure to get your Narrator’s approval if you 
wish to buy anything unusual or dangerous.) 
Quirks - 
By giving your character quirks (interesting personal details), 
you add a great deal of depth and interest to her. Write a few sentences on the 
back of your character sheet about the strange and interesting things that 
define your character. Examples of quirks include a dark sense of humor, a 
gentleness toward children or a habit of mumbling when nervous. 
CDeRics and Flarus 
Merits and Flaws are optional defining Traits that give you a way to make 
your character unique. A Merit is a descriptive Trait that applies to your 
character and gives him a slight advantage in some area, while a Flaw gives 
your Kithain a slight disadvantage. You may buy Merits only during character 
creation, unless you earn them during a story (and have Storyteller approval). 
To buy Merits during character creation, you may only spend Traits from 
Flaws (maximum of seven; you may take more Flaws than that, but they will 
not be counted), Backgrounds (maximum of five), Abilities (maximum of 
five) or Traits earned from Negative Traits (maximum of five); the maximum 
number of Merit Traits allowed is 22. Your character will not suffer if you do 
not have Merits and Flaws, but putting all your points into Merits and Flaws 
will surely handicap you in other areas. 
You can also take Flaw Traits and use them to buy other Traits - 
Abilities and Backgrounds - 
at a one-for-one ratio. 
Merits and Flaws may be restricted in some stories, or not available at all 
in others. Make certain that you get Storyteller approval before buying any 
Merits or Flaws, as some of the ones listed below may be disallowed in your 
game. Merits and Flaws are optional parts of acharacter, and The Shining Host 
can be played quite well without them. 
Remember that you must have Storyteller approval on all Merits and 
Flaws you want for your character. Once gameplay starts, you may only 
purchase or buy off Merits and Flaws with Storyteller approval, and at double 
the Trait cost listed for them. You must also have given excellent proof of your 
worthiness to earn a new Merit or your dedication in buying off a particular 
Flaw in the story. 
You are not allowed to take a Merit that doubles up an existing advantage 
of your character’s, or that is identical to one of your character’s Frailties, 
unless it is otherwise stated that you can do so. 


These Merits and Flaws establish your changeling’s special capacities and 
abilities, or modify the effects and powers of his other Traits. 
Ability Aptitude (1 Trait Merit): You have a particular facility with one 
(not combat-related) Ability, and are considered to be two Traits up on all 
tests directly related to that Ability. 
Ambidextrous (1 Trait Merit): You have a high degree of off-hand 
dexterity, and can perform tasks with the “wrong” hand withnoTrait penalty. 
Animal Affinity (2 Trait Merit): You possess some of the legendary fae 
affinity for animals, and with a successful Social Challenge you may calm 
down a frightened or enraged animal, or befriend a neutral one. By spending 
two Social Traits, you may gain a rudimentary ability to understand the 
intentions of a particular animal, and even communicate with it in a way it 
understands well. 
Busy Helper (5 Trait Merit): This Merit is identical to the boggan 
Birthright: Craftwork. 
Chimerical Craftsman (5 Trait Merit): This is identical to the nocker 
Birthright: Forge Chimera. 
Jack-of-All-Trades (5 Trait Merit): You have a large pool of miscella- 
neous skills and knowledges obtained through your extensive travels, the jobs 
you’ve held, or just all-around know-how. You may automatically attempt any 
action even though you do not have the appropriate Ability, although you 
must risk an extra Trait to do so. However, if you lose this challenge, both 
Traits you bid are also gone. You can, of course, spend a Willpower Trait to 
avoid losing the Traits you just bid. 
Water Baby (5 Trait Merit): This is identical to the selkie Birthright: 
Ocean’s Grace. 
Inept (5 Trait Flaw): You have never trained extensively in any skill or 
craft, and therefore can purchase no Abilities. You also cannot purchase new 
Abilities or Influences above one until this Flaw has been bought off. 
Endless #@%$#*$@Frustration (5 Trait Flaw): This is identical to the 
nocker Frailty: Flaws, except you may choose the Ability it affects -having 
a Flawed Performance Ability means that something is always wrong with any 
art you create, while the effects of Flawed Repair are generally dangerous for 
those around you. The Storyteller has the final say on what Abilities may be 
Flawed, and how it comes into play each time it is used. She is under no 
compunction to be merciful, either. 
AruaReness 
These Merits and Flaws involve perception (or the lack thereof). 
Acute Sense (1 Trait Merit): You have an exceptionally keen sense 
(hearing, smell, taste, vision). You are automatically two Traits up on all 
challenges that involve that perception. 


Heightened Senses, except you may not speak to wraiths, and you do not suffer 
the sluagh difficulties of Heightened Senses (susceptibility to light, etc.). 
Natural Appreciation (5 Trait Merit): This is identical to the ghille dhu 
Birthright: Nature’s Bounty. 
Weak Sense (1 Trait Flaw): You have a sense that’s not quite up to snuff 
(hearing or vision, choose one). You are automatically two Traits down on 
perception tests related to that sense. Obviously, you may not have Acute 
Sense and Weak Sense on the same sense. 
Color Blindness (1 Trait Flaw): You can only see in black and white. 
Color means nothing to you, although you are sensitive to color density, 
which you perceive as shades of gray. In the vibrant and magical world of the 
Kithain, this is considered a sad condition indeed. Note: Color blindness 
actually indicates an inability to distinguish between two colors, but we 
fudged a bit for the sake of playability. It’s a game, after all. 
One Eye (2 Trait Flaw): You have one eye - 
choose which, or 
determine the missing eye randomly during character creation. You have no 
peripheral vision on your blind side, and are two Traits down on any test 
requiring depth perception. This weakness extends to missile combat. To 
simulate this Flaw, you may choose to cover one eye while you’re playing. 
Deaf (3 Trait Flaw): You cannot hear at all. If you are not truly deaf, this 
Flaw can be difficult to roleplay and you should get your Narrator’s approval 
before selecting it. 
Blind (6 Trait Flaw): You automatically fail all tests involving vision. 
You cannot see - 
the world of color and light is lost to you. Note: This Flaw 
can be difficult to act out in a live-action setting, and must never be allowed 
to take precedence over safety. 
Changeling x e s  
These Traits reflect your status among your fellow Kithain, and any 
capabilities and drawbacks that result from that. 
Boon (1-7 Trait Merit): An elder fae owes you a favor because of 
something either you or your mentor once did for him. The extent of the boon 
owed to you depends on how many Traits you spend. One Trait would 
indicate a relatively minor boon, while seven Traits would indicate that the 
elder probably owes you his existence. 
Kith Affinity (2 Trait Merit): You have a knack for interacting with 
members of another kith - 
perhaps it’s the way you look, or maybe you have 
a reputation for helping them out when they’re in need. Maybe you were a 
great aid to them in a past life (perhaps you were one in a past life!). 
Regardless, you are two Traits up on all Social Challenges on all friendly social 
interactions with this kith, or when sincerely attempting to gain their trust. 
However, if that kith has any enemies in the area, beware - 
you will be 
marked as a sympathizer. 


unknown being with the power to cause you grief. The power and influence 
of this enemy are determined by the Flaw’s value. Someone about your equal 
would be one Trait, while a Methuselah vampire or a noble of the Shadow 
Court would be worth five. You and the Narrator should discuss the severity 
of your enemy’s hatred, and whether or not you are aware that he is pursuing 
you. The Narrator awards the freebie points for this Flaw. 
Twisted Upbringing (1 Trait Flaw): When you were led through your 
Chrysalis, the group that Sained you put all the wrong ideas into your head 
about changelings and changeling society. Now you have trouble shaking 
these notions. Perhaps your “benefactors” did it for some dark purpose, or 
maybe just for kicks, but all the bad info has been implanted in you just the 
same, and it’s going to take a lot to get what they told you out of your head. 
You also resist others who try to tell you the “truth” of what’s really going on, 
sticking to your beliefs until hard lessons teach you otherwise. The Storyteller 
will tell you when you have learned enough to buy off this Flaw. 
Kith Enmity (2 Trait Flaw): For some reason, you just don’t get along 
with another kith - 
it can be anything from the way you dress to the ideals 
you hold, but you have trouble interacting with other members of this kith, 
and no matter what you do, they seem to be naturally disposed to dislike you. 
You are two Traits down on all non-cantrip related Social Challenges with 
this kith, even intimidation attempts. You will also automatically be consid- 
ered an enemy of any local motleys of this kith, regardless of your real 
intentions. 
Notoriety (3 Trait Flaw): You have a bad reputation among your peers; 
perhaps you violated the Escheat once too often, or you belong to an 
unpopular motley. Maybe it isn’t even your fault, but the reputation of your 
mentor. Regardless, you are two Traits down on anything that has to do with 
social dealings with other Kithain of your area. 
CnenraI 
These Merits and Flaws deal with the mind - 
its strengths, weaknesses 
and special capacities. 
Common Sense (1 Trait Merit): Your have a significant amount of 
practical, everyday wisdom. Whenever you are about to do something 
contrary to common sense, the Narrator should alert you to how your 
potential action might violate practicality. This is an ideal Merit if you are a 
novice player; it allows you to receive advice from the Narrator concerning 
what you can and cannot do, and (even more importantly) what you should 
and should not do. 
Celestial Attunement (1 Trait Merit): You have an innate link to the 
passage of time and the movement of celestial bodies. You can estimate the 
time until sunrise or sunset within a minute or two, and can follow the phases 
of the moon in your head. Those with some training in astrology and this 


charts. You can accomplish any of these feats with only a minimum of 
concentration. This Merit is especially common among the faerie folk who 
are in tune with the cycle of nature. It can also help resist the effects of “faerie 
time” inflicted by the Chronos Art; all such difficulties to confuse a changeling 
with this Merit are down two Traits. 
Eidetic Memory (2 Trait Merit): You can remember things you have 
seen and heard with perfect detail. You are up two Traits on any memory- 
related challenges, and can recall any sight or sound accurately, even from a 
passing glimpse or snatch of sound. The Narrator relates to you exactly what 
was seen or heard, and can be queried about what you do and do not know. 
Iron Will (3 Trait Merit): When you are determined and your mind is 
set, nothing can divert you from your goals. You cannot be Dominated, and you 
receive a free retest on any other mental attacks or magic against you, whether 
you are aware of them or not. At the Storyteller’s discretion, resisting 
especially strong magic may require a Willpower Trait. 
Amnesia (2 Trait Flaw): You are unable to remember anything about 
your life prior to the Chrysalis. You past is a blank slate, and may come back 
to haunt you. You may, if you wish, take up to five other points of Flaws 
without specifying what they are. The Narrator can supply the details. Over 
the course of the chronicle, you and your character will slowly discover these 
hidden Flaws. Amnesia can be a dangerous Flaw; your Narrator is under no 
obligation to be merciful. 
Confused (2 Trait Flaw): You are often confused, and the world seems 
to be a very twisted and distorted place to you. Sometimes you are simply 
unable to make sense of things. You need to roleplay this behavior to some 
extent at all times, but your confusion becomes especially strong whenever 
strong stimuli surround you (such as when a number of people talk all at once, 
or you enter a cavern with an overpowering stench). You may spend 
Willpower to override the effects of your confusion, but only for the duration 
of a scene. 
Absent-Minded (3 Trait Flaw): Though you do not forget such things 
as knowledges and skills, you do forget things like names, titles and the last 
time you had a meal. In order to remember anything more than your own 
name or the location of your freehold, you need to spend a Willpower point. 
CnoRraI Sociecy 
These Merits and Flaws, along with your Influences, help to define your 
interactions with the mortal world. 
Mansion (2 Trait Merit): You own a large mansion - 
a home with 25 
or more rooms - 
as well as the surrounding estate. The servants, if you have 
any, are provided for you if you have this Merit, although they cannot be used 
as Dreamers unless you purchase the appropriate Background. While the 


it appears to be, the more attention it will garner (from tax men and the like). 
Similarly, superstitious mortals go out of their way to avoid a “haunted” 
manor, although you may have to fight off the zoning board from time to time. 
There are also down sides to living in a decrepit building, not the least of 
which is personal safety. 
Nightclub (2 Trait Merit): You own a nightclub of moderate size, 
perhaps one of the hottest nightspots in the city. It brings you in enough 
money to support a decent lifestyle ($1000 allowance a month, which may be 
augmented by taking Influences), and also provides provide an excellent place 
for a freehold (although that requires the necessary Background) or even just 
a general rendezvous. The name of the club, its style, its design and the 
description of its regular patrons are all up to you (within reason). Variations 
on this Merit could include a restaurant, theater, comedy club, sports arena 
or retail store, with the Storyteller’s permission, of course. 
Persistent Parents (2 Trait Flaw): This Flaw is the bane of many 
childlings. You may have runaway to join faerie society, but your parents have 
refused to let the mystery of your disappearance lie. They actively use missing 
children programs to find you, and employ private investigators to help in the 
search. The Storyteller determines how close they are to finding you, but the 
trail is hot enough to make you uncomfortable, and any violent confrontation 
with one detective will only bring the rest of them closer to you. Implicit in 
this Flaw is the fact that for some reason you simply cannot tell your parents 
what you are or talk your parents out of searching for you (though you may 
try); perhaps they loyally serve a Prodigal master, or they are Autumn People. 
Ward (3 Trait Flaw): You are devoted to the protection of a mortal. You 
may describe your ward, though the Narrator is the one who actually creates 
her. This character is often a friend or relative from your pre-Chrysalis days. 
Wards have a talent for getting caught up in the action of stories, and are 
frequent targets of a character’s enemies. 
Hunted (4 Trait Flaw): You have come to the attention of a Dauntain 
or similar individual who seeks your destruction. This hunter is beyond reason 
and has some form of power, influence or authority that puts you at a 
disadvantage. Because of you, your friends, family and associates are likewise 
endangered. Sooner or later, this Flaw results in a confrontation. The 
resolution should not be an easy one, and until such time as you and your 
pursuer have your showdown, you are in for a hellish time. 
Physical 
These Merits and Flaws deal with your health and physical makeup, and 
the unusual physiology of the fae. 
Double-jointed (1 Trait Merit): You are unusually supple. You receive 
one free retest per session on a challenge related to body flexibility. The 


between bars is one example of a use for this Merit. 
Changeling’s Eyes (1 Trait Flaw): Your eyes are a startling color, 
perhaps burning crimson or the color of the full moon. Whatever they are, 
they are clearly not normal, and visible even in your mortal seeming. This 
makes you easily tracked by those who know of your.. . distinction. You must 
describe your unusual eye color to everyone you meet. 
Huge Size (4 
Trait Merit): You are abnormally large in size, possibly over 
seven feet tall and 400 pounds in weight. You therefore have one additional 
Health Level, to reflect the fact that you are able to withstand more 
punishment than most before you are incapacitated. When acting this part, 
players should dress appropriately with bulky clothes, unless they already 
have a stature that approximates this Merit. Note: A troll may purchase this 
Merit, as it affects her mortal seeming as opposed to her fae self. 
Short (1 Trait Flaw): You are well below the average height, and have 
trouble seeing over high objects and running quickly. You suffer a two-Trait 
penalty to all pursuit rolls, and you and the Narrator should make sure your 
height is taken into account in all situations. 
Disfigured (2 Trait Flaw): A hideous disfigurement makes you easy to 
notice as well as to remember. You cannot take any Social Traits that would 
compliment your appearance. 
Child (3 Trait Flaw): You are a child in body, if not in mind, and while 
you may be extremely precocious, you’re still just a kid. You have the Short 
Flaw (above), and are subject to many parental controls and curfews. You 
might even be barred from things (like bars or clubs) due to your being 
“underage.” You also may have some trouble being taken seriously by non- 
Kithain (two-Trait penalty to all relevant tests). Not all childlings need take 
this Flaw; those who don’t are assumed for some reason to be considered more 
“adult” by others. 
Deformity (3 Trait Flaw): You have some kind of deformity - 
a 
misshapen limb, a hunchback, a club foot - 
which affects your interactions 
with others and may inconvenience you physically. You are one Trait down 
on all tests of a physical nature. Furthermore all challenges related to physical 
appearance are two Traits down. 
Lame (3 Trait Flaw): Your legs are injured or otherwise prevented from 
working effectively. You suffer a three trait penalty to all tests related to 
movement, and may require crutches or other aid to move around effectively. 
One Arm (3 Trait Flaw): You have only one arm - 
choose which, or 
determine the missing limb randomly at character creation. You are accus- 
tomed to using your remaining hand, so you suffer no off-hand penalty. 
However, you do suffer a two-Trait penalty to any test in which two hands 
would normally be needed to perform a task. 


.. 
cannot speak at all. You can communicate through other means - 
typically 
writing or signing. Obviously, you may not take any Traits pertaining to vocal 
expression. 
Supem aeuRa1 
These extremely rare Merits and Flaws give you different kinds of 
supernatural benefits or detriments. Because of the unbalancing potential of 
these particular Traits and the liberal way in which they deal with the “laws 
of reality,” the Storyteller may not allow you just to choose from this category 
- 
ask before you pick one. Furthermore, you should not select such Traits 
unless they firmly fit your character concept and you can explain why your 
character possesses them. In general, it is not recommended that anyone have 
more than one or two Supernatural Merits or Flaws - 
they should be strictly 
controlled by the Storyteller. 
Fae Songs (1-5 Trait Merit): Through accident or training, you have 
learned some of the ancient songs of the fae, which allow you to weave special 
powers over your audience with a successful Perfonname Challenge. You have 
learned one song per Trait of this Merit, and each has a different supernatural 
effect - 
sleep, passion, lure a type of target (rodents, children) away, or 
happiness. These songs are covered by the Mists, meaning that any mundanes 
affected will be unable to remember the tune that so enchanted them except 
in dreamy snatches.. . . 
Past Life (1-5 Trait Merit): Most fae only recall hazy memories from 
their past lives in dreams, but those with this Merit can remember much 
greater detail - 
perhaps even entire lifetimes. Sometimes, these visions even 
provide insight into a problem in a current lifetime; a character may call on 
this Merit a number of times equal to the Trait rating per story, although what 
exactly a character remembers is the province of the Storyteller. The 
information recalled may be cryptic, but is always useful in some way or 
another. Of course, you never know who might have shared a past life with 
you .... 
Mass Appeal (1-5 Trait Merit): You have learned how to harness the 
Glamour of an appreciative audience to your own ends; for each Dreamer in 
the vicinity, or for every five mundane beings enjoying a performance of 
which you are a part, you are considered to have one extra Glamour Trait, up 
to the limit of the number of Traits of the Merit. These extra Glamour Traits 
may only be spent on enchantment or cantrips directly related to the 
performance, and fade away once the performance is over if they are unused. 
You must successfully employ a Performance Social Challenge to use this 
Merit. 
True Love (1 Trait Merit): You have discovered, but may have lost (at 
least temporarily) a true love. Nonetheless, the mere existence of this love 
provides you with transcendent joy. Whenever you are suffering, in danger or 


but only when you are actively striving to protect or come closer to your true 
love. Also, the power of your love may be enough to protect you from other 
supernatural forces (Narrator’s discretion). However, your true love may also 
be a hindrance and require aid (or even rescue) from time to time. Be 
forewarned: this is a most exacting Merit to play over the course of a chronicle. 
Danger Sense (2 Trait Merit): You have a sixth sense that warns you of 
danger. When you are in a perilous situation that would potentially surprise 
you, you have five seconds in which to react instead of the normal three 
seconds. 
Shamaaedium (2 Trait Merit): You possess a natural affinity with 
spirits, either natural spirits such as animals or plants (Shaman) or the ghosts 
of the departed (Medium) -choose one. Though you cannot see spirits unless 
they reveal themselves, you may speak freely to any spirits of your affinity in 
the area, and you can even summon them to you with pleading and cajoling. 
Spirits never offer their powers or advice for free, however- they always want 
something in return. Sluagh who take Medium are two Traits up on all Social 
tests with wraiths they encounter. 
Poetic Heart (3 Trait Merit): You possess a truly romantic, inspired soul, 
and are destined to be a great hero or artist. In any event, Glamour shields you 
from some of the worst effects of Banality; once per story, you may spend a 
Willpower Trait to avoid gaining Banality Traits from one test. 
Unbondable (3 Trait Merit): You are immune to being Blood Bound. No 
matter how much blood you drink from vampires, you can never be Bound to 
one, although this is no protection from the Banality that comes with 
drinking vampire blood. 
Luck (4 Trait Merit): You were born lucky- or else the Fates look after 
their own. Either way, you can repeat three failed tests per story. Only one 
repeat attempt may be made on any single test. 
Iron Resistance (4 
Trait Merit): Although cold iron is still a threat to 
your faerie soul, you suffer less from its proximity than other fae do. You can 
tolerate touching cold iron without the detrimental physical side effects that 
most fae suffer. Cold iron still inflicts aggravated wounds on you, however, 
and a fatal wound from the metal will still destroy your fae soul utterly. 
Seeming’s Blessing (5 Trait Merit): All of your Birthrights are effective 
in your mortal seeming, (even ones that are normally considered Wyrd 
Birthrights) and function in front of mortals. For example, trolls gain extra 
PhysicalTraits and Health Levels, sidhe gain extra appearance-related Traits, 
etc. 
Faerie Eternity (5 Trait Merit): After your Chrysalis, you began to age 
strangely - 
you had received a touch of the immortality once inherent to all 
fae, and now you age at one-tenth the rate of a normal human. Should you fall 


age normally. 
Art Affinity (5 Trait Merit): You possess a great degree of natural skill 
with one Art of changeling magic (your choice). You are automatically one 
Trait up on any tests with this Art, and it costs one fewer experience Traits 
than normal to learn new powers in that Art. This Merit may only be 
purchased once. 
Immortal Passion (5 Trait Merid4 Trait Flaw): You possess one of the 
legendary passions of the fae, and tend to feel this emotion with a depth 
unfathomable to most mortals. You must work with your Storyteller to 
determine what your passion is, and to what situations it might apply. 
Whether or not you are able to easily control this passion, however, dictates 
whether this is a Merit or a Flaw. If you take this trait as a Merit, you receive 
a free retest on any test directly pertaining to your passion (this does not 
include most combats, unless the object of your passion is defenseless or 
otherwise in dire need of your aid), and any attempts (magical or otherwise) 
to create emotions in you that would contradict your passion automatically 
fail. However, if you take this trait as a Flaw, your passion can also take control 
of you at inopportune moments, and you must either spend a Willpower Trait 
or make a Static Challenge of your current Willpower against six Traits to 
retain control of yourself. 
Note: This does not mean that you must act unbalanced or melodramatic 
when it comes to expressing your passion; indeed, some of the most emotional 
moments in our lives are times of quiet strength and devotion. This Merit is 
also not cumulative with the effects of the True Love Merit, although they can 
be combined (most wonderfully) for roleplaying purposes, and taking this 
Flaw with True Love is one way to ensure an epic, though most likely tragic, 
romance. Some passions include: love, honor, compassion, righteous anger, 
freedom and a desire to learn. At the Storyteller’s discretion, you may take 
darker passions (lust, greed, etc.), but they are generally only acceptable as 
Flaws. 
Regeneration (7 Trait Merit): Your faerie spirit is exceptionally strong, 
and even your mortal frame recovers quickly from damage. You heal one 
Health Level of chimerical damage every five minutes, and one level of actual 
damage every hour. 
The Bard’s Tongue (1 Trait Flaw): You speak the truth, and with 
uncanny accuracy. This is not a talent for prophecy, but rather a facility for 
blurting out unpleasant truths at inappropriate times. Once per session, the 
Storyteller may approach you with an unpleasant truth you must spit out, and 
you may only swallow the urge by spending a Willpower Trait. Pooka with this 
Flaw are destined for frustration. 
Geas ( 1-5 Trait Flaw): You begin play under a gem of some kind- 
most 
likely a Ban, but possibly a long-term quest. The number of Traits in the Flaw 


haired people is worth one Trait, while a Ban against sleeping in the same bed 
more than once would be worth five. You must work with the Storyteller to 
define the specifics of your Ban and the consequences of failure to uphold it. 
Slipped Seeming (1-5 Trait Flaw): Your fae self bleeds over into your 
mortal seeming; the degree of the slipped seeming depends on the number of 
Traits of a Flaw you take. One Trait might mean pointed ears for a sidhe, while 
five would mean goat legs for a satyr. These slips, however, do not confer any 
of the usual Birthrights associated with them - 
a satyr with goat legs cannot 
make a Fair Escape, for example. The Mists do not protect Slipped Seeming. 
Surreal Quality (2 Trait Flaw): You exude an aura of otherworldly 
mystery to those around you; unfortunately, this means mortals often become 
fascinated with you in an unhealthy way. They might attempt to strike up 
conversations at bad times, or try to get close to you in ways that you might 
find unfavorable. Even worse, mortals of a criminal persuasion will often 
target you for their illicit actions, as you seem particularly appealing to them. 
Winged (2 Trait Flaw/4 Trait Merit): You have beautiful wings, be they 
feathered bird’s wings or batwings or a brilliant butterfly’s tapestry. They are 
chimerical, but you must accommodate them nonetheless, which can make 
for some bizarre scenes as you try to explain why you’ve cut slits in the backs 
of all of your coats. If your wings are restrained improperly, you are down on 
Trait on all Physical Challenges. If you take Winged as a Flaw, you cannot fly, 
but are one Trait up on all uses of Wind Runner. If it is a Merit, you may indeed 
fly for short periods of time (no more than a scene or two at a stretch), 
although you may not use this ability in the presence of the unenchanted. 
Echoes (2-5 Trait Flaw): You are affected by mortal beliefs, like many 
of the fae of old, and exhibit many behaviors that faerie hunters and 
superstitious mortals will recognize. The Trait value of this Flaw describes 
how many superstitions you are affected by. Two Traits would indicate 
something like milk curdling in your presence, three might mean that mortals 
who say your name backward are invulnerable to your Arts, and five might 
mean that you take damage from walking on holy ground. This Flaw is 
cumulative, so taking five Traits of it means you suffer lesser effects as well. 
These can have some beneficial effects for you (for example, picking four leaf 
clovers might bring you luck), but generally it’s more trouble than it’s worth. 
You must work with the Storyteller to determine what superstitions affect 
you, and how often you come in contact with them. 
Cleared Mists (3 Trait Flaw): Although they are the result of Banality, 
the Mists help hide the magics of changelings from the eyes of mortals. 
Unfortunately, for some reason the Mists do not shield your Glamour, and any 
use of cantrips or other fae powers you use will be fully remembered by any 
mortals who observe you. This makes you easily noticed and tracked by 
Dauntain. 


Coat, except that you may have your fae self bound into any kind of item you 
desire (with Storyteller approval): jewelry, a weapon, even an old book. 
Bad Moon (5 Trait Flaw): The moon is the traditional home of both the 
Seelie and Unseelie Courts, and for some fae it still has a powerful effect on 
their attitudes; it can even cause a temporary form of madness which wilders 
sardonically call “lunacy.” Whenever the rays of the moon strike your 
unprotected skin, you immediately adopt your Unseelie Legacy, or if already 
Unseelie, become violently antisocial in your ways. For most Kithain, the 
change lasts for the span of a full day. For unknown reasons, sidhe suffer the 
effects of the change for an entire week. 
Obviously, you must cover yourselfwell when traveling ac night, although 
you may stand under the moon if you are within the radius of another light 
source (such as a streetlight); the other light is considered to “drown out” the 
moonlight and render it unable to trigger this Flaw. The Storyteller should be 
called if there is any debate as to whether or not a character’s bare skin has 
indeed been exposed to moonlight. 
Greedy Glamour (5 Trait Flaw): Glamour always asks a lot of you, and 
your cantrips seldom come easily. You must perform an additional Bunk, for 
which you receive no bonus Bunk Traits, whenever you cast a cantrip, and you 
may never cast a cantrip without using a Bunk. You may still spend Glamour 
to do an additional Bunk while casting. 
Banality’s Curse (5 Trait Flaw): You are extremely susceptible to 
Banality, much like the sidhe, and suffer from the Frailty of the same name. 
You are assigned extra Banality Traits each time you gain Banality, and the 
level of Banality in an item or area is always considered one higher than normal 
for your purposes. 
Chimerical Magnet (5 Trait Flaw): You tend to attract chimera, and as 
a result you gain the attention of rampaging monsters more easily than do 
others. While this can sometimes be a help to you, more often than not it 
means trouble, as nervosa and harmless pixies alike target you for their 
attentions. Worse, you might as well have “dragon magnet” tattooed on your 
forehead in some territories. 
Oathbound Health (5 Trait Flaw): This Flaw is identical to the troll 
Frailty: Bond of Duty. 
Dark Fate (5 Trait Flaw): You are doomed to experience a horrible 
demise or, worse, suffer eternal agony. No matter what you do, someday you 
will be out of the picture. In the end, all your efforts, your struggles and your 
dreams will come to naught. Your fate is certain and there is nothing you can 
do about it. Even more ghastly, you have partial knowledge of this, for you 
occasionally have visions of your fate - and such phantasms are most 
disturbing. The malaise these visions inspire in you can only be overcome 
through the use of Willpower, and returns after each vision. At some point in 


up to the Storyteller. Though you can’t do anything about your inevitable 
doom, you can still attempt to reach some goal before it occurs, or at least try 
to make sure that your friends are not destroyed as well. 
PeRsonaIiq 
These Merits and Flaws deal with the personality of your character, and 
describe ideals, motivations or pathologies. Some Personality Flaws can be 
temporarily ignored by spending Willpower Traits, and are noted as such. If 
you possess such a Flaw and do not roleplay it when the Narrator thinks you 
should, then she may inform you that you have spent a Willpower Trait for 
the effort. Flaws cannot be conveniently ignored. 
Code of Honor (1 Trait Merit): You have a personal code of ethics to 
which you strictly adhere. You can automatically resist most temptations that 
would bring you in conflict with your code. When battling supernatural 
methods of persuasion (Dominate, mind magic, etc.) that would make you 
violate your code, you gain one automatic Trait for the challenge. You must 
construct your own personal code of honor in as much detail as you can, 
outlining the general rules of conduct by which you abide. As always, double- 
check what you create with a Storyteller. 
Higher Purpose (1 Trait Merit): Everyone has “reason to live,” but you 
have a special commitment to a single ideal. Your chosen goal drives and 
directs you in everything. You do not concern yourself with petty matters, 
because your higher purpose is everything. Though you may sometimes be 
herded along by this aim and find yourself forced to behave in ways contrary 
to the needs of personal survival, having this sort of motivation can also grant 
you great inner strength. You have two extra Traits on any challenge having 
to do with your higher purpose. You need to decide what your higher purpose 
is before you start playing; make sure you talk it over with the Storyteller first. 
(You cannot take both this Merit and the Flaw: Driving Goal.) 
One Bad Dude (5 Trait Merit): This is identical to the redcap Birth- 
right: Bully Browbeat. 
Loyal Heart (5 Trait Merit): This Merit is identical to the troll 
Birthright: Strength of Duty. 
Compulsion ( 1 Trait Flaw): You have a compulsion of some sort, which 
can cause you a number of different problems. Your compulsion may be for 
cleanliness, bragging, stealing, gambling, exaggeration or just talking too 
much. A compulsion can be temporarily avoided for one scene at the cost of 
a Willpower Trait, but it is in effect at all other times. 
Cyclical Court Change (1-3 Trait Flaw): In times past many fae were 
Seelie in spring and summer and Unseelie in autumn and winter, and you are 
still bound by the cycles of the natural world in your choice in Courts. 
Although you may have some control over your actual Court, you are forced 
to adopt one particular Court a certain number of times per year based on some 


this Flaw is worth depends on how regular the change is and for how long each 
switch lasts (involuntarily changing to your Seelie/Unseelie Legacy for one day 
every month is worth one, while being forced to stay one Court for an entire 
season is worth three). 
Intolerance ( 1 Trait Flaw): You have an unreasoning dislike of a certain 
thing, It may be an animal, a class of person, a color, a situation or just abut 
anything at all. Some dislikes may be too trivial to be reflected here - 
an 
aversion to rare comic books, for instance. The Narrator is the final arbiter on 
what you can pick to dislike. 
Nightmares (1 Trait Flaw): You experience horrendous dreams every 
time you sleep, and memories of them haunt you during your waking hours. 
Sometimes the nightmares are so bad they cause you to be down one Trait on 
all of your actions for the next day (Narrator’s discretion). Some of the 
nightmares may be so intense that you mistake them for reality. A crafty 
Narrator will be quick to take advantage of this, and in the dream-centered 
world of the Kithain, this can be a horrible Flaw indeed. 
Overconfident (1 Trait Flaw): This is identical to the eshu Frailty: 
Recklessness, except the possessor of this Flaw does not receive Negative Traits 
for it. 
Shy (1 Trait Flaw): You are distinctly ill at ease in social situations, and 
have trouble relating with large groups of people. You are one Trait down with 
all social dealings, and another Trait down when you are the center of attention 
for a large group of people (over 10). 
Soft-Hearted (1 Trait Flaw): You cannot stand to watch others suffer - 
not necessarily because you care about what happens to them, but simply 
because youdislike the intensity ofemotion it causes in you. If you are the direct 
cause of suffering and you witness it, you experience bouts of nausea and nights 
of sleepless grief. You avoid situations where you might have to witness others’ 
pain and will do anything you can to protect people from it. Whenever you must 
witness suffering, you are one Trait down on all challenges for the next hour. 
Low Self-Image ( 2  Trait Flaw): You lack self-confidence and don’t 
believe in yourself. You are two Traits down in situations where you don’t 
expect to succeed (at Narrator’s discretion, though the penalty might be 
limited to one Trait if you help the Narrator by pointing out times when this 
Flaw might affect you). At the Narrator’s option, you may be required to use a 
Willpower Trait to do things that require self-confidence in situations when 
others would not be obliged to do so. 
Vengeance (2 Trait Flaw): You have a score to settle. You are obsessed 
with wreaking vengeance on an individual (or perhaps an entire group), and 
make revenge your first priority in all situations. The need for vengeance can 
only be overcome by spending a Willpower Trait, and even then it only subsides 
for a single scene. 


fae, and have trouble keeping your mind on one subject for too long. You suffer 
a one-Trait penalty on any successive tests in an extended confrontation (not 
including combat, but including actions such as a facedown) as a result of your 
inability to keep your mind focused. 
Curiosity (2 Trait Flaw): You cannot resist mysteries or puzzles of any 
kind, and when confronted with a situation where you might be tempted to 
investigate (“What harm could it possibly do to follow the Shadow Court 
assassin home?”), you must make a Static Mental Challenge against a number 
of Traits determined by the Storyteller. You may avoid the temptation for a 
while with a Willpower Trait, but if another mystery appears.. .. 
Driving Goal (3 Trait Flaw): You have a personal goal, which sometimes 
compels and directs you in startling ways. The goal is almost limitless in scope, 
and you can never truly achieve it. “Overcome Banality” or “Destroy all 
Dauntain” are acceptable goals, while “Become a titled noble” is not - 
after 
all, you might pull the latter off. Because you must work toward your goal 
throughout the chronicle (though you can avoid it for short periods by 
spending Willpower), your fixation can get you into trouble and supersede 
other actions that you might prefer to take. Choose your goal carefully, as it is 
the focus of everything your character does. 
Hatred (3 Trait Flaw): You have an unreasoning hatred of a certain thing. 
This hate is total and largely uncontrollable. You may hate a color, animal 
(“ARRRGHHH! IT’S A LEMUR! I HATE LEMURS!”), class of person or 
situation - 
anything. You constantly pursue opportunities to harm the hated 
object or to gain power from it. The Narrator may, of course, rule a particular 
hatred too trivial for game purposes. 
Lifesaver (3 Trait Flaw): You cannot bring yourself to take the life of 
another, and even chimerical combat makes you uncomfortable. You have a 
two-Trait penalty on any tests which result in the death of another (chimerical 
or otherwise), and if you ever kill another person’s mortal form, you will suffer 
a long period of agonizing self-doubt. You may be able to slay creatures entirely 
of evil (such as feral chimera or crazed vampires), but be very careful at how you 
define “evil”. . . . 
Phobia (3 or 5 Trait Flaw): You have an overpowering and irrational fear 
of something. You instinctively and illogically retreat from and avoid the 
object of your fear. Common objects of phobias include certain animals, 
insects, crowds, open spaces, confined spaces and heights. You must make a 
Simple Test whenever you encounter the object of your fear. The conse- 
quences of failure depend on the severity of the Flaw. If you have taken a 
three-Trait phobia, you must retreat from the object upon failure. If the fear is 
worth five Traits, you will not approach the object with fewer than three 
successes. If you fail, you will flee in terror. The Storyteller has final say over 
which phobias she allows in a chronicle. 


Humans - 
and changelings - 
are creatures of experience By doing, we 
learn how to improve what we’ve done. Thus, characters can take Experience 
points (awarded for superior roleplaying, expert leadership or even simple 
survival) and convert them into improved statistics. Only one Ability, Trait, 
Art or Realm should be gained per session. 
Using €jcpeRience 
After experience has been awarded, it may be spent to purchase new 
Abilities, Traits, Arts and Realms, improving upon the character and giving 
the player a sense of satisfaction as he watches his character grow. The 
following lists the cost of improving the various aspects of a character. 
New Attribute Trait - 
One experience point per Trait. 
New Ability - 
One experience point per Ability Trait. 
New Art -Three 
experience points for Basic Arts, six for Intermedi- 
New Realm - 
Two experience per Realm. 
New Glamour - 
Three experience per Trait. 
New Willpower - 
Three experience per Trait. 
New Banality -Two 
experience per Trait. Go on, take it. You know 
Buy off Negative Trait - 
Two experience per Trait. 
New Background - 
One experience point per Background Trait, with 
Narrator approval. 
New Meritplaw - 
Double the cost of the Merit or Flaw, with Narrator 
approval. This should not happen instantaneously. It is recommended that 
Narrators find a way to integrate the addition of a Merit or removal of a Flaw 
into a character’s ongoing plotline. 
ate Arts, and nine for Advanced Arts. 
you want it. (It’ll get you sooner or later anyway.) 


Bored with the politics of the undead and the endless slaughter of the 
werecreatures, Cindy has decided to join the local group for a game of The 
Shining Host, and is enchanted by the idea of beings who exist on the power 
of creativity. Having never created a changeling character before, Cindy 
hunkers down with the rulebook and puts on an inspirational CD, as her 
Storyteller, Lucas, sits by, ready to give her a hand if she needs it and answer 
any questions she has. The process of character creation begins. 
Step One: Concepc 
Cindy thinks about this stage for a while. She wants to play a character 
with achildlike sense ofwonder, but who hides her fascination behind a tough 
facade. Although her character’s a child of the streets, Cindy doesn’t want the 
cynicism of that life to have gotten to her yet. Thinking it to be the best 
balance of these aspects, she decides her character will be a wilder, or teenage 
fae. When the other characters first see her, they’ll see a young creature of the 
night, who likes to rebel against both mortal and faerie society, but when 
someone really gets to know her, they’ll find she has an aptitude for art history 
and a deep love of the Dreaming. While she’s definitely not evil, she has no 
great love of rules either, so Cindy decides her character will be Unseelie, a 
fae of change and chaos. 
The pooka kith, a natural one for tricks and paradoxes, also seems to 
stand out in her mind, and she decides her character will be a pooka who can 
change into a lynx, as she sees something catlike in her character. Since alynx 
isn’t normally an animal a pooka can be, she asks Lucas if it’s OK, and after 
thinking it over, he agrees, seeing some potential for good-natured havoc in 
it. 
Cindy still has to pick her Legacies, her fae personality, and eventually 
settles on Cerenaic for her Unseelie Legacy and Troubadour for her Seelie 
Legacy. As her Unseelie side is usually dominant, her character normally lives 
life to the sensory fullest and throws cares to the wind, but those who coax out 
her Seelie side find a sensitive soul dedicated to romance and art. Cindy 
decides her character will be a runaway, but she wants to put a bit of a twist 
on that common theme to make her character stand out more. After some 
consideration, she determines her character didn’t run away from home to get 
away from her parents, but to find them, since they mysteriously disappeared 
one day shortly after her Chrysalis, her awakening to her fae nature. Lucas, 
smelling a good future plot hook, takes note of this as well. 
Cindy wants her character’s name to be exotic and fae-sounding, as she 
always loves characters with mysterious names in novels. Following several 
minutes of doodling and sounding things out, she decides the name “Cybelle” 
contains the right balance of mystery, beauty and plain old pooka wit for her. 
With a better grasp of her character’s concept, she moves on to fleshing it out. 


i
i
i
 
0 
1 
Srep Two: Armibuces 
Cindy is now ready to pick Cybelle’s Traits, and starts by setting 
priorities. Right away, the Social category leaps out at her - 
Cindy sees 
Cybelle as a beautiful, captivating person, and it even goes well with the 
pooka kith‘s natural talent for talking to just about anyone (not to mention 
talking themselves into a great deal of trouble). She selects Social as her 
primary category (with seven Traits). Figuring Cybelle to be a pretty naturally 
intelligent person, Cindy decides to make Mental Traits her secondary 
category (with five Traits), leaving Physical to tertiary (with three Traits), as 
Cybelle has been battered around a bit by life on the streets. Cindy looks at 
the lists ofTraits- there are many that she thinks would apply, but she knows 
she’ll have to take the essential ones first and worry about the others later. She 
starts with Social Traits, and winds up selecting Alluring, Beguiling, Eloquent, 
Expressive, Magnetic, Seductive, and Witty. For Mental Traits, she picks Clever, 
Creative, Intuitive, Intuitive and Knowledgeable (which reflects her art history 
study, and departs wildly from the street urchin stereotype). Finally, for her 
three Physical Traits, she chooses Energetic, Lithe and Nimble; she wishes she 
could pick more, but those will have to do for now, and she’s still far from done. 
Scep ThRee: Advancages 
Cindy now gets to pick her five Abilities. After studying the list, she 
decides to take a wide range and not specialize in any one Ability, to reflect 
her character’s diverse interests. Performance is Cindy’s first choice, and she 
decides Cybelle is secretly something of a poet, since that Ability requires her 
to choose a type of art she pursues. Of course, Cybelle wouldn’t be where she 
is today without some Streetwise, so Cindy takes that. A level of Gremyre goes 
down as well, since Cybelle has learned a thing or two about the fae during her 
time on the road. Ditto for the Kenning Ability, as Cybelle wants to be able 
to detect Glamour wherever she goes. With her final Ability, Cindy chooses 
Melee, since Cybelle has learned quite well how to wield a knife in her time 
on the street. 
Next comes Backgrounds. Cindy decides to take a level of Remembrance, 
since her interest in art is fueled by dreamy memories of another time and 
place, and she puts a level into the Street Influence, to reflect her contacts in 
the local community. Having a sudden vision of a beautiful mask of comedy 
she can use to magically alter her appearance, she puts the last three levels into 
Treasure, giving herself an item fused with Glamour. She talks to Lucas about 
it, decides it will be a physical treasure, not a chimerical one, and eventually 
gets it approved. Cindy jots down what it does on the back of her character 
sheet, and Lucas signs it, to show other players it’s authentic. She makes a 
mental note to buy and decorate a mask for a prop, and moves to the next 
phase. 
Arts and Realms take a long time for Cindy to choose, since they all sound 
so appropriate for Cybelle, and she’s fascinated by the concept of changeling 
120 


chooses the Basic levels of Chicanery (Fuddle, Veiled Eyes) and the first Basic 
level of Wayfare (Hopscotch) for her three levels of Arts, reflecting Cybelle’s 
tricky, elusive nature. Since she had taken both Basic powers of Chicanery, 
Cindy could have chosen instead to take the first Intermediate Chicanery 
power for her third level of Arts, but she decided that Hopscotch was going to 
be a bit more useful, as Cybelle might find herself in a situation where she 
needs to get away in a hurry, and Cindy moves to picking Realms to 
accompany her Arts. As she deals with a large number of mortals in her time 
on the streets, she takes three levels of the Actor Realm (True Friend, Personal 
Contact, Familiar Face), letting her use her cantrips on a wide range of 
mundane people. It’s always good to be able to cast cantrips on yourself, Cindy 
reasons, and she takes a level of the Fae Realm (Hearty Commoner); since she 
has no title, this will do just fine. After tinkering a bit, Cindy has Cybelle 
choose to take one level of the Prop Realm (Omate Garb), explaining it by 
saying Cybelle has a private taste for enchanted fashions. This step is now 
complete, and Cindy is nearly finished creating her little pooka. 
Srep FOUR: Finishing Touches 
Cindy copies down her beginning Glamour, Willpower and Banality 
Traits-since 
she’s awilder, she starts with four Glamour, two Willpower and 
three Banality Traits. She also fills in temporary Willpower and Glamour 
equal to her starting Traits, as all characters begin play with full Glamour and 
Willpower. She looks up her pooka Birthrights, and writes down her ability 
to shapechange into a lynx, noting that it costs one Glamour Trait to do so. 
She also receives an Ingratiating Social Trait and a level of the Subterfuge 
Ability from her second Birthright, and adds these to their respective areas. 
Cindy looks at her Frailty and smiles; she’s going to enjoy the wordplay 
involved in her pooka inability to tell the truth. (Lucas, on the other hand, 
merely groans.) She also gains an Untrustworthy Negative Trait from that 
Frailty, and records this next to her other Social Traits, marking it with an 
“(N)” to show it is a Negative Trait. 
Cindy reads the Musing and Ravaging Thresholds, and after contemplat- 
ing them a while, asks Lucas if he would mind Cybelle taking a Musing 
Threshold, even though she’s Unseelie. She explains that Cybelle hates 
Ravaging, and in fact loves to promote the spread of art around her; on these 
grounds, she’d like to take the Inspire Creativity Musing Threshold. Lucas 
questions her for a while, making sure she really wants this for her character 
(since this would be a departure from the rules), and, satisfied with her 
concept, approves it at last. Cindy happily jots her new Musing Threshold 
down. 
Finally, there is the question of whether or not Cindy wants to give 
Cybelle any Flaws or Negative Traits in order to purchase Merits or more 
Traits for her character. She decides to add another Untrustworthy Negative 


rait, as Cybelle often seems unrellable to those around her, and takes the 
mpatient Negative Mental Trait as well, reflecting Cybelle’s overly restless 
spirit. She takes the Surreal Quality Flaw, which is worth two Traits, to reflect 
how Cybelle’s enchanting aura on those around her can get her into trouble. 
She knows that those Traits, along with her pooka nature, are going to make 
her life interesting, but she feels they reflect her character well. Plus, with 
these four extra points, Cindy can now buy some extra Traits or Merits and 
improve Cybelle a bit. She decides to improve her physical potential, 
purchasing the Dexterous and Tough Traits, giving her a total of five Physical 
Traits. With her remaining two extra Traits, she takes the Danger Sense Merit, 
reflecting Cybelle’s knack for coming out of tricky situations alive. She looks 
the list over, sees nothing else she wants to take, and goes to the last stage. 
St-ep Five: SpaRk OF LiFe 
Cindy has finished what will go on her character sheet, and must now 
revisit her concept and settle some of the more intangible facts of Cybelle’s 
life, and how she’ll portray her character. How does Cybelle dress? How does 
she walk? Does she speak with an accent, a habitual cough, a sultry laugh? 
Does she pace when she’s angry, or have a habit of rolling her eyes when she’s 
lying? There are many layers of subtleties that can be added to a character 
when they’re played, and Cindy now has to think about just how she’ll convey 
her character to the other players in an entertaining and memorable way. She 
also has to give more thought to Cybelle’s past and personality - 
she has a 
decent start on twisting the usual runaway stereotype, and a good cluster of 
motivations and goals to begin play with, but some more detail couldn’t hurt. 
Who were her childhood friends? What was she like in school? Does she miss 
anyone from her mundane life? Cindy spends a while thinking about these 
things, until Lucas coughs loudly and she remembers she has to finish 
sometime, that a character is really only complete when she’s been played. 
She’ll think up the rest later, and practice her character’s Traits when she 
plays. She passes her character over to Lucas, who makes sure everything adds 
up before approving her character. She’s certainly already shown enough of 
a character and a history! Cybelle is now ready to play in the next session. 


Cantrips are the powers of faerie magic, the combined efforts of a 
changeling to use the Dreaming to affect the world around her, enchanted or 
otherwise. Cantrip casting is broken into several different parts, all of which 
are essential to creating a particular effect. 
Arts are the distillation of raw Glamour to create magical effects for a 
changeling. The range of Arts represents the spectrum of ways of using 
Glamour to achieve certain ends, but all Arts draw upon the same pool of 
imaginative energy. In the old times, faeries could do nearly anything 
imaginable at the slightest whim, drawing on the boundless Glamour that 
existed before the Sundering. Modem Arts are but the faded legacies of that 
magical time. Arts themselves are still quite powerful, however, and thus 
require Realms to act as magical “funnels” through which to channel their 
magic in order to create any kind of constructive product. Many Kithain, 
particularly those involved in the fine arts, look upon an Art as a muse, the 
raw notion of what change or improvement needs to be made through the 
power of Glamour. As such, an Art is potent but still formless, and needs 
discipline and direction (e.g., a Realm) to be put to any measurable use. 
Simply having an idea doesn’t guarantee anything to come of it, after all, as 
countless failed Dreamers can attest. 


Kealrns 
If the Art is the muse of a changeling, the Realm is the medium through 
which she chooses to work. Just as an artist must choose some method of 
expressing herself to communicate her ideas - 
writing, singing, photogra- 
phy, sculpture or whatever - 
the Kithain must use a Realm to specify what 
the power of her Art is to affect. Doing so makes the cantrip a little more 
demanding, but also allows aversatile changeling with a wide range ofRealms 
to achieve many different uses of one Art. 
For example: The outcast sorcerer Lord Dywer has the Art of Hopscotch 
(Basic Wayfare). That’s not too impressive on its own, but with his wide range 
of Realms he can achieve many different effects: with Actor or Fa, 
he can 
bestow the power to make great leaps on someone; with Prop, he can fire an 
object into the air; withNature, he can give an animal jumping power, or jump 
higher than a thunderstorm himself; with Scene, he can combine another 
Realm to allow a whole group to spring like kangaroos on steroids; and with 
Time, he can set the cantrip to go off just when he needs it. 
Thus, command of a wide range of Realms makes even the lowliest Arts 
formidable in the hands of wily Kithain, just as a wide range of media makes 
a human artist more versatile in displaying her talents. However, the power 
that Arts and Realms grant comes with a quirky price to be paid. 
bunks 
Bunks are the often downright silly requirements that Glamour forces 
changelings to perform in order to use their cantrips. Before even the smallest 
cantrip can produce a result, a Kithain must carry out whatever inner price her 
Glamour demands. This is known as a Bunk. The form the Bunk takes can be 
anything from quoting Keats to doing an Elvis impersonation to launching a 
triple backflip, but it’s always interesting. Fortunately, most Kithain quickly 
learn the general sort of demands their Glamour makes on them, and can 
prepare accordingly. 
A Kithain character should have a number of Bunks equal to her 
permanent Glamour rating written on her character sheet. In addition, the 
Storyteller should assign to each Bunk the number of Traits it is worth when 
successfully completed, and if necessary the time required to complete the 
Bunk. Quick, easily performed actions might be worth one Trait; longer, more 
complicated Bunks might be worth three or four. Truly difficult or specific 
Bunks might be worth five. In no case should one Bunk be worth more than 
five Traits. These extra Traits are called Bunk Traits, and they serve multiple 
purposes. They add to the number of Traits a changeling is considered to have 
in a cantrip-related challenge, and some Arts also use them to determine such 
things as the damage and duration of a cantrip. 


gives Narrators time answer any questions players might have about their 
capabilities, as well as helping to ensure the Storyteller knows what his band 
of wacky fae might be up to. There should also be some way for each player 
to pick a Bunk randomly (numbering them works best) from her list, as this 
sort of luck of the draw is essential to the casting process. Players may use the 
same Bunks over multiple sessions if they like, but must make sure that said 
Bunks are re-randomized every time. Also, Kithain who use the same Bunks 
time and again risk gathering Banality for being so repetitive, and allow 
enemies take advantage of their predictable patterns. As long as the Story- 
teller is consulted about the legality, power and time requirement of each new 
Bunk, players are encouraged to make their Bunks as creative and distinctive 
as possible. Just keep in mind as well that all live-actionrules, especially those 
pertaining to running, touching and performing dangerous acts still apply 
(more strictly than normal, actually) to Bunks. 
There are no prefabricated Bunks listed in this book. You should make up 
your own Bunks and give them whatever names you choose. The idea is to 
come up with tasks that are simultaneously cogent and fun. Your Storyteller 
is the final authority on all Bunk Trait ratings, so don’t argue too strenuously 
over whether something is two Traits or three. Just have fun with it - 
after 
all, that’s what Bunks are all about. 


This is the Art of trickery and mental deceit. It is favored by many 
commoner Kithain for its usefulness in dealing with mortals. Chicanery was 
one of the first Arts to be rediscovered after the Shattering. Kithain known 
to possess Chicanery are watched closely, especially by the nobility. A few 
nobles have become infamous for their judicious uses of this Art, although it 
is generally thought to be a commoner’s Art and therefore “vulgar.” 
requires Actor 5 (Dire 
Fuddle cannot change a target’s perception of itself. 
Type: Chimerical 
Veiled Eyes: With this Art, you may hide people, places or things from 
the eyes of others; this is not so much a sudden supernatural vanishing as it is 
a function of having others “filter out” the existence of the Veiled object. The 
effect lasts for as long as the target remains relatively unobtrusive (no combat, 
no picking uplmanipulating objects, etc.), and must be recast every time the 
power is broken. This enchantment may be renewed on inanimate targets as 
often as the changeling spends Glamour (once per day, usually), but may not 
be renewed on living targets without a new cantrip. Characters should cross 
their arms to indicate that they are Veiled; Storytellers should be notified of 
Veiled areas. 
Sluagh Heightened Senses and other, similar powers may be used to detect 
invisible objects and people as normal. Making multiple targets invisible 
requires the Scene Realm; if the caster drops the power or is discovered at any 
point, the cantrip is broken for the entire group. Otherwise, if one member of 
128 


the group makes himself visible, the rest of the group is fine so long as they 
abide by the unobtrusiveness rule. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Tip of the Tongue: Tip ofthe Tongue allows you to remove or steal specific 
memories and thoughts from the mind of another. The memory affected can 
be as minor as the color of someone’s watch to the fact that the target is a 
supernatural being. This is also very useful in covering one’s tracks and 
reinforcing the Mists. Note that Tip ofthe Tongue cannot add memories in any 
way. One 15-minute period of memory may be affected per Bunk Trait gained 
in casting Tip ofthe Tongue, and the effects last for one day, at which point the 
target may make astatic Mental Challenge against the Glamour of the caster 
to figure out what was done to him. Only the Realm of the target to be affected 
is needed for this Art. 
Type: Chimerical 
Switcheroo: A more refined version of Fuddle, this devious Art allows 
you to make a target believe he is something else, which can be just about 
whatever you tell him to be. A target could be told he was a two-headed alien, 
a sperm whale or a bowl of petunias, and will do his best to act the part 
(singing, jumping, barking, swimming or even simply standing still), so long 
as it doesn’t directly endanger him, at which point the cantrip instantly fails. 
This Art costs one Glamour Trait per 10 minutes the subject is to be affected, 
to a maximum of the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting. For the 
duration of the effect, the target should adopt gestures and mannerisms as 
consistent with his “new shape” as possible, as he truly believes he is that 
thing. Kithain and other supernatural beings may cancel this Art with the 
expenditure of a Willpower Trait. Only the Realm of the target to be affected 
is needed, although you must be able to somehow tell the target what you wish 
him to be for the cantrip to work (talking, telepathy and even writing are 
acceptable). If you wish him to change roles at any time, you must commu- 
nicate your wish to him. 


Captive Heart: This powerful Art allows you nearly complete control 
over a subject’s heart and mind; he becomes pliant toyour commands, and you 
may stir his emotions at will through the power of your Glamour. This power 
costs two Social Traits and two Glamour Traits to use, in addition to the Bunk 
for the casting. However, if it works, the target gains the Negative Trait: 
Submissive x2 for the remainder of the session, and may not attack or even be 
ar event or 
outcome o 
for stories like “Rip Va 
trapped in the lands of the fae. Chronos is a difficult Art to learn, much less 
master, and must be taught by a mentor of some kind, as even the brightest 
changeling can’t just pick it up on his own. However, those who are patient 
enough learn secrets that are potent even by the standards of the fae. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Art Note: This is a rare Art for non-sidhe to have, and as a general rule, 
any non-sidhe using it is one Trait down, although certain commoners display 
a facility that offsets this penalty. Due to the potential complications inherent 
in the Art, a Storyteller should be present for most uses of Chronos and may 
even disallow this Art if it becomes too problematic. 
Basic 
Wyrd: This Art distorts the target’s perception of time, confusing him 
and making him see things after the fact or a split second before they occur. 
Such confusion should be played as a dizzy stagger and a far-off look in the eyes 
of the target. In game terms, this effect translates into a one-Trait penalty on 


certain sidhe are immune to this Art, as are very rare commoners. 
Type: Chimerical 
Backward Glance: This Art allows you to look into the past. It is 
automatically successful if you wish to recall something from your own 
memory (if your memory has been altered, you remember only the alteration), 
although the usage still costs one Glamour Trait. You may also use this power 
to read the pasts of other people and places with a successful cantrip, and thus 
ask them for exact details of what occurred at such a time and place. Doing 
so is often considered somewhat rude, of course, and any character being 
“read” in this way will automatically sense it. The Realms used with this Art 
cover either what the Art is to be used on, or what the subject of the memory 
is. This power covers one incident and one incident alone per use, and is also 
useless on anything of the Mists or that has been touched by them. In no case 
can Backward Glance access a memory more than a year old. If players have 
problems with what can be “remembered” this way, a Storyteller should be 
consulted as to what “really” happened. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Dream Time: This bizarre Art allows you to manipulate the passing of 
time, speeding it up or slowing it down as you wish (though no use of this 
cantrip can stave off the onset of Banality). Dream Tim requires the 
expenditure of Mental Traits on the caster’s part, so that for every two Mental 
Traits expended you can accelerate time or slow it down by one “degree,” 
according to your wishes. For an object or place, a degree equals 10 years of 
time added or subtracted, while for a plant, animal or sentient a degree is ayear 
added on or taken off. This cantrip cannot be cast on a target more than once 
per scenehour, and the number of Mental Traits you spend cannot exceed 
more than twice the number of Bunk Traits gained in the cantrip casting. 
Premature aging caused to animals or sentients by this Art can be undone by 
a special casting of this Art, which has the same cost as the cantrip which 
inflicted the aging plus a Willpower Trait. 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Reversal of Fortune: Any use of this Art must be approved and overseen 
by the Storyteller, as this is the power to “undo” a recent event, and it is 
entirely within the Storyteller’s power to disallow use or even possession of 
this Art in a chronicle. Reversal of Fortune requires a permanent expenditure 
of one Glamour and one Willpower Trait, plus one permanent Mental Trait 
for each minute of peacetime or round of combat that you wish to “take back,” 
up to a maximum of your current Bunk Traits. You must use the Scene Realm 
when casting this cantrip, and anyone outside of the range of the manipula- 
tion must stop play until the new outcome of the scenario has been determined, 


pened.” Players cannot walk in on this cantrip while it is in effect. Instead, 
they must wait for the reality affected by the cantrip to “catch up’’ to the real 
world. 
Type: Wyrd 
DReam C R d T :  
This Art allows a Kithain to explore the Dreaming itself, in particular the 
Near and Far Dreaming. The Deep Dreaming is also a possibility, but only the 
insane or foolish go out so far, and none who do so have ever returned. This 
Art allows for control over and understanding of the Dreaming. While the 
sidhe are particularly strong at it, many commoners, particularly eshu, show 
a facility for it as well. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Basic 
Walk the Silver Path: The Silver Path travels through all trods, enabling 
Kithain to travel from location to location within the Dreaming in (relative) 
safety. Leaving the path is a good way to get oneself eaten by giant chimera 
or trapped in a Nightmare Realm. Therefore, when traveling the Dreaming, 
it is a good idea to know where one is going and what might be there, not to 
mention staying on the Silver Path itself. This Art is designed for that exact 
purpose. 
With the expenditure of one Mental Trait, the character becomes able 
to stay on the Silver Path regardless of circumstances (although this becomes 
a challenge if someone attempts to conceal the true Silver Path). Plus, with 
an expenditure of one Mental Trait per question, a Kithain may ask aNarrator 
about wholwhat is at the other end of the trod she is using, provided the 
appropriate Realms are used in the casting of the cantrip. (In other words, if 
you want to see if the sidhe nobles are really waiting for you, the Fae Realm 
of Lofty Nobk must be invoked, etc.) The questions asked must be entirety 
visual in nature and may be resisted with a Mental Challenge, but must be 
answered truthfully if successful. Note that invisibility of any kind defeats this 
power except if someone is attempting to cloak the Silver Path itself. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Homestead: This Art allows you to create stable pockets in the chaotic 
areas of the Dreaming, “anchoring” certain people or things against the 
constant shifts in the reality of the landscape. Each use of this requires the 
caster to expend a Glamour Trait, then one Mental Trait for each item or 
person to be affected. More Glamour may be required to protect truly grand 
or powerful things at aNarrator’s discretion. Each thing so protected gains an 
additional “Healthy” Health Level, usable only in the Dreaming, and allows 
for a Static Mental Challenge to avoid penalties due to sudden shifts in the 


without another casting of Homestead. 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Dream Weaving: This Art is similar to the Legerdemain Art, Phantom 
Shadows, but it is more versatile. On the other hand, Dream Weaving’s 
creations are confined entirely and absolutely to the Dreaming, and any 
encounter with mortal 
also may not be made 
on the Wyrd - 
such 
an action insta 
apparent source of propulsion, are possible through this Art. 
Type of Challenge: Physical 
Art Note: Many instances of Legerdemain, particularly the low-level 
abilities, involve an invisible force; this force can be resisted and retested by 
all strength-related powers such as vampiric Potence or Garou Gifts; however, 
any such considerations must be made when the cantrip challenge is under- 
taken. 
Basic 
Gimmk This Art allows you to move things telekinetically; whatever is 
affected feels an invisible hand grasp it and move it about. Note that you 
cannot directly damage someone with a telekinetic “punch,” though pushing 
someone off of a building might ruin his day. This Art can be used on things 
you cannot see, but requires you to gesture the type of action you wish the 
Gimmix to perform - 
lifting, pulling, etc. - 
in addition to whatever Bunk 
you have been given. Gimmix costs one Physical Trait per use. Note that fine 


although actions such as flipping a switch or pushing a button are possible. 
Type: Wyrd 
Mooch: With this Art, you can relocate objects from one place to 
another, usually from someone else’s pocket to your own. The object in 
question must be in sight or have been seen during the last minute; if neither 
of these are true, you cannot Mooch something, even if you’re absolutely 
certain the item is still ther 
cannot be Mooched 
in any case, nor can the 
to exist when in 
even if made real by calling upon the Wyrd. 
A Kithain using this power is at a one-Trait penalty on any challenges 
while using Effigy, and cannot engage in any stressful activity (such as 
combat) while doing so. 
Type: Wyrd or Chimerical 
Ensnare: With this Art, you can animate the features of an area so that 
they trap or hold aperson; even if convenient features (tree limbs, cables, etc.) 
are not available, a successful use of this Art makes the target believe there are. 
This costs one Glamour Trait to enact, and the victim of Ensnare must make 
a Static Physical Challenge to break free, with a difficulty equal to the 
Kithain’s current Physical Traits at the time the cantrip is cast (Traits from 
Bunks count). Additionally, you may spend Physical Traits during the casting 
of the cantrip, and each Trait so spent adds one to the difficulty of the Static 
Challenge. If the difficulty exceeds the target’s Physical Traits, she is unable 
to break free until the Ensnare fades. Vampires with Vigor and Puissance may 
continue to contest Ensnare every two minutes, but receive no other benefit 
from their Discipline. 


the caster leaves the area, the Static Challenge is won, or when 10 minutes have 
passed. 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Phantom Shadows: This Art allows you to create illusions that mimic 
reality. The true nature of an illusion created thus is very difficult to discern, 
illusions in question, 
with Actor would have 
snoopers at a one- 
true nature. 
Type: Chimerical (any Shadows made real by calling upon the Wyrd cost 
a Mental Trait per five minutes to maintain). 
Rattle: Much like Gimmix, but stronger and more controlled, the Art of 
Rattle allows you to slam and toss your opponents directly, or to put on displays 
of telekinesis that are nothing short of stunning. To use Rattle, you must spend 
a variable number of Physical Traits. Each Trait spent allows you to manipulate 
or throw 100 pounds’ worth of material, or for a single target to be thrown 10 
feet. Using this power for damage inflicts one Health Level and allows you to 
position your target wherever you want within the range dictated by your Trait 
expenditure. At this level of control, fine manipulation such as typing is also 
possible, though you must concentrate on nothing else, and can only perform 
the cantrip for a number of actions/minutes equal to the number of BunkTraits 
gained in the casting. Most uses of Rattle are clearly supernatural, and are often 
protected only by the Mists (but beware, for one never knows when Dauntain 
are watching). 
Type: Wyrd 


This is the Art of True Names and runes, the Art that allows power over 
letters and the inherent potential of an individual or thing. While all 
changelings undergo a Saining to determine their True Names, this Art goes 
deeper, ferreting out their powers and weaknesses simply through arrange- 
ments of words and letters. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Art Note: This Art, like Chronos, is extremely rare and usually known 
only to high-ranking members of the nobility. It is not normally available for 
beginning characters, and anyone seeking to take this Art should consult the 
Storyteller first. In no case can a character begin with more than Basic 
Naming. Any character who wishes to get far in this Art had better also have 
dedicated some Abilities to learning the rune languages themselves, as this 
Art is useless unless one knows the right runes to use. The Storyteller may 
disallow this Art if it threatens game balance. 
Basic 
Rune: With this Art, you can unleash the mystical power inherent in the 
words and symbols known as runes. In addition to your Bunk, you must know 
the appropriate rune to use this Art, and have inscribed or displayed it in some 
fashion related to the item or person you intend it to affect. If you do so 
successfully, the Traits gained from the Bunk used in the casting may be added 
to one challenge or test appropriate to the rune used; after that use the power 
of the rune is lost. (Although runes may be re-used with additional castings, 
they cannot be cumulative.) 
Example of play: Baroness Rhiannon, a proficient user of the Naming 
Art, wishes to enchant a sword with a rune to let it burst into flame for a friend 
heading off to battle. Hurriedly sewing the rune into a ribbon, she ties the 
ribbon around the hilt of the blade and performs a cantrip casting that gives 
her four Bunk Traits. That means when her friend uses the power of the rune, 
the sword will flare briefly into flame, putting her friend four Traits up on one 
challenge while wielding the blade. After that, the rune must be re-inscribed 
to be used again. 
Type: Chimerical (Wyrd for especially flashy rune effects) 
Intermediate 
Runic Circle: With this Art, you can create a circle or enchant a ward 
that can be used to protect its bearer against supernatural forces. You must 
take the time to inscribe the necessary runes (at least 10 minutes, real time) 
in the circle as well to insure that the magical protection is complete and 
thorough. Once this is done, you may spend a variable number of Mental 
Traits on the cantrip. For every two Traits spent making a ward, you receive 
a free retest on supernatural challenges of any kind, and attempted physical 
attacks on the bearer of the ward are that number of Traits down. If you 
created a circle, then supernatural entities must make a Static Mental 


to cross into or use their powers on anyone within the circle. 
Note that retests are always used up, won or not, and that once a 
challenge has been successfully performed against a circle or ward, the winner 
of that challenge is immune to that ward or circle for the remainder of the 
story. Also, if a caster wishes to make the ward or circle permanent, she must 
permanently expend the Mental Traits involved, and a Willpower Trait must 
be spent each time the ward or circle is activated. 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Saining: By this Art, you may discover the True Name of a subject, which 
in turn often gives you power or control over the item or person thus known. 
This Art is often used on newly awakened kithain, but can be used for other, 
shadier purposes. A True Name typically has from two to 20 letters (the exact 
number should always be determined by the Storyteller, preferably randomly) 
and for each Bunk Trait you gain, you learn an additional letter of the target’s 
True Name. This process is often rather lengthy and can be resisted by the 
subject, even if unconsciously, for a True Name is extremely powerful in the 
right (or wrong) hands, and thus this cantrip is almost always a challenge. 
A True Name cannot be used until all of it is known, and you can never 
be certain as to how many letters remain. In addition, you cannot “guess” at 
what letter(s) might be missing, even if you’re certain only one remains; the 
remaining letters must be discovered by this Art to be of any use. Supernatural 
beings are always aware of use of this Art on them, even if they fail to defend 
themselves against it, and are usually not amused. 
Type: Chimerical 
Reweaving: By switching the runes in a subject’s True Name, you may 
fundamentally and permanently alter aspects of the subject itself. One Trait 
of permanent Willpower must be expended for each use of this Art, and the 
target’s True Name must have been gained through use of the Saining Art, 
above. If you are successful, such changes may be made as: switching Natures 
or Legacies, exchanging Mental Traits for Social Traits and vice versa, Seelie 
to Unseelie, buildings to bulldogs, Autumn People to aardvarks, and more. 
Any alterations done, however, must be switches, not deletions, and anything 
lost must be replaced in some fashion. One such change may be made per 
Bunk Trait gained in casting. 
Note: The Storyteller is perfectly within her right to deny a use of this 
Art, increase its cost for truly radical changes, or even forbid this level of 
Naming altogether. In no case should this Art be used without a Storyteller 
present, and any such attempts are automatically void. A target may retest this 
Art at the cost of a permanent Willpower Trait per retest. 
Type: Wyrd 
Prerequisite Art: Saining. 


This Art allows understanding of the fundamental connection between 
the changeling soul and the forces of the earth and nature. Those who 
specialize in this Art are often nature lovers or those who feel a strong call to 
nature, such as trolls, selkies and ghille dhu. No Primal cantrip can create or 
otherwise have any effect on cold iron, although alloys such as steel are 
affected normally. 
Type of Challenge: 
natural elements 
or bubbles from the grou 
element can appear in an u 
indoor rainstorm, or an 
inferno from a cigarette lighter) but cannot appear in an unnatural or 
manufactured form (no party ice or finished marble floors). A basic use of this 
Art costs one Physical Trait in addition to the requirements of the cantrip 
casting. If used to injure another, this Art costs two Physical Traits per Health 
Level of damage to be inflicted, up to a maximum number of levels equal to 
the BunkTraits gained. If used to create a protective shield, this Art costs one 
Physical Trait per Health Level the barrier has, up to a maximum of the Bunk 
Traits gained in casting. The shield is considered to have Physical Traits equal 
to its caster’s for the purpose of challenges. 
Note that once the element is created, the cantrip must be recast if the 
caster wishes to control it - 
a summoned fire is out of control unless you cast 
a second cantrip with as many Bunk Traits as the first. If you are simply 
creating natural elements, the Nature Realm is all that’s required for this Art. 
If you use it to affect another individual, however, you must use both Nature 
and another appropriate Realm. 
Example of play: Sam the boggan is being chased by an angry Garou. 
Looking for a way to distract the werewolf, Sam uses Eldritch Prime to create 


of flame, the werewolf ignites and runs off, and the plucky boggan begins 
thinking about how to get the smell of burnt fur out of his kitchen. 
Type: Wyrd 
no permanent 
Oakenshield: This 
a subject with the mystical 
Physical Traits up to the number gained by the Bunk, you may bestow 
additional “Bruised” Health Levels upon the target. These levels last until 
they are lost through damage, Banality erodes them, or a month passes (game 
time). You cannot cast this cantrip on a target again until any levels gained 
previously in this manner are lost. Any others attempting to do so will find the 
efforts result in similar failure (but not until it’s too late). 
Type: Chimerical 
Prerequisite A r t  Heather Balm 
Advanced 
Holly Strike: This Art allows you to inflict damage upon a person or 
thing. The wounds done by this are actual damage, in the form of vicious cuts 
and bruises, and use of this Art on another changeling save a Dauntain is a 
clear violation of the Escheat. 


related Physical Traits (Ferocious, Muscvhr, Brutal, etc.), you inflict a Health 
Level of actual damage upon your target. The subject may resist by spending 
a Willpower Trait and entering Physical Challenge; no powers other than 
stamina-related ones may be used, but no retests are allowed, either. Note that 
each casting allows for only one level of damage; you cannot pile on the 
Physical Traits and completely devastate someone in a single blow, though 
repeated castings may 
obvious, and the met 
nctive; you must 
requires merely a successful casting and the expenditure of a Willpower Trait; 
particularly difficult or bizarre forms may also require a Static Physical 
Challenge (Bunk Traits count). When you use Elder-Form on someone else, 
it is a direct Physical Challenge, and the subject may be forced into the desired 
form for one hour per point of Willpower you spend. The subject may spend 
Willpower every hour to retest and revert to his original state. Under no 
circumstances does the transformation last for more than a single night or day. 
Also, any contact whatsoever with an unenchanted being immediately 
forces a test of the transformed changeling’s Glamour versus the interloper’s 
Banality -you 
may work a Bunk to add to your rating, but that is all. If you 
fail, you immediately revert to your original form. Due to the radical character 
changes often involved in such transformations, you must consult the 
Storyteller when using this Art, and you must adopt props, dress and/or 
gestures that clearly indicate your altered state to the other players. Casting 
this Art on another requires two Realms - 
one for the subject and one for 
what you wish the subject to become. Casting it for yourself it requires only 
the Realm of whatever it is you wish to become. 


Prerequisite Art: Holly Strike 
Py Reizics 
This Art allows for control over fire, which has fascinated and inspired 
mortals for centuries. Both chimerical and actual flames can be created 
through use of this magic, although neither sort are quite what they seem at 
first. 
Intermediate 
Prometheus’ Fist: 
u can create chimerical or normal 
fire that completely engulfs the target of your cantrip. For chimerical flame, 
a Glamour Trait must be spent to start the flame, in addition to a Physical 
Trait for each turn you wish to maintain the blaze. To create actual flame, you 
must spend a Willpower Trait to initiate the flames, followed by a Glamour 
Trait per turn. In either case, the flames inflict one Health Level of damage 
per turn a subject is engulfed, although the target may attempt to put out the 
flames with a successful Physical Challenge; if this works, the cantrip 
immediately ends. If you use this cantrip on yourself or on a melee weapon 
such as a sword, you inflict an extra Health Level of damage for close combat 
challenges, and the victim or anyone else near you must win or tie a Simple 
Test to avoid catching fire for each turn or challenge she is exposed to you. 
Note that chimerical flames cannot harm you, whether released or not, but 
actual flames can once they are released from direct control. 
Type: Wyrd or Chimerical 
Advanced 


living flame, while allowing it to keep all of its intrinsic powers and abilities: 
a cat is still a cat, a sword is still a sword, a person can still think, speak and 
move freely, etc. and so on. The flames are magical, and cannot harm you; 
they also do not ignite materials unless the transformed creature or the owner 
of the transformed object wills it to be so. Two extra actual Health Levels of 
damage are done in combat by the extreme heat of the flames, although a 
Simple Test must be 
as with Prometheus’ 
can place great demands on Storytellers, and its power over Fate can 
potentially unbalance some situations. It is recommended that Storytellers 
keep tabs on all omens and predictions to avoid confusion later on, or perhaps 
assign a Narrator, called the Oracle, to keep track of uses of this Art (this is 
an especially good idea in large chronicles). A sense of the balance of Fate 
must also be maintained for this Art to avoid becoming overly powerful; Fate 
rewards the faithful and the dedicated, but never lets one person get away with 
murder indefinitely. 
Basic 
Omen: This Art allows you to get a glimpse of your place in the tapestry 
of Dan, and can be a helpful guide to finding the resolve to face a difficult 
decision. Once the cantrip has been cast, a perception-related Mental Trait 
(Discerning, Observant, etc.) must be spent while you spend 30 seconds simply 
watching the setting around you. You may speak or walk at a normal pace, but 
any action more involved than that immediately negates this cantrip. This 
power may be granted to others by use of the appropriate Realms, although 
you must still pay the Mental Trait. A sign of some kind representing the 


What exactly the sign is and how cryptic it may be are up to the Storyteller, 
but the affected character feels refreshed and reassured of her place in the 
tapestry of Fate, and instantly regains one Willpower Trait. A target may only 
benefit from this effect once per day/session. At the Storyteller’s discretion, 
a character who blatantly ignores Fate’s advice (i.e., one who walks into a 
burning building after watching his likeness burn to ash) may not receive the 
uneasiness. 
fortune to befall his 
performs a four-Trait Bunk. Now, during one challenge in the duel, Devon 
may give Lord Magbane four extra Physical Traits for the purposes of ties and 
overbids, most likely giving him enough Traits to carry the challenge. If 
Magbane won but his foe retested the challenge, those extra Traits would still 
apply. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Tattletale: This Art allows you to scry on distant places or things, and you 
may make challenges with such perception-related Abilities as Kenning once 
contact has been established. Use of this Art requires only that the cantrip 
casting be successful, although those hidden by supernatural power must be 
defeated in another direct challenge to be detected. Five minutes of uninter- 
rupted, out of game meditation must be performed in addition to the usual 
Bunk, and one Mental Trait must be spent for each sense beyond sight that 
the user wishes to invoke. Targets cannot detect a use of Tattletale unless they 
have some kind of supernatural power which specifically allows them to 
detect such things as astral presences and distant observers, and have such 


for Tattletale, although mystic wards such as those created with Weaver Ward 
and the like automatically stop it. The time limit for uses of Tattletale is one 
minute per Bunk Trait gained. Due to the divinatory power granted by this 
Art, a Storyteller’s help should be required when Tattletale is used. 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
allows you to look int 
minutes in out of 
n addition to the 
Dance of Destiny: A par 
hu, who view this power as 
a dance with Lady Fate herself, this Art makes you destiny’s darling.. . for a 
time. Accidents which should cripple come short of harm, enemies find it 
difficult to land even the slightest shot, and fortune just seems to throw things 
your way. Once under the effect of the Dance ofDestiny , you automatically win 
all ties in contests, regardless of who has more Traits. Plus, you gain the 
advantage of a Fair Escape once per combat you enter, as Fate covers her 
tracks. You may also ignore the first wound delivered to you in combat unless 
it is given by cold iron, and you may not be Surprised by your foes. This Art 
lasts for one hour. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, if you invoke this power in a non-combat 
situation you may find yourself temporarily receiving free favors or Influence 
Traits as Fate makes things break your way. The duration and limits of this 
type of effect are up to the Storyteller, but should be in line with the daring, 
dramatic nature of the Art, and not simply used for a quick power grab. 
Similarly, if you use this Art on a regular basis in combat simply to butcher and 
humiliate foes, you’ll eventually find Fate favoring the new “underdog” 
against you! However, for her attention, Fate requires you prove your 
owers already activated at the time the Art is used. There is no limitingrange 


addition to the casting Bunk, you must permanently give up something of 
value to you, be it a treasure, chimera, Influence Trait or other important 
possession. If the item is deemed insufficient or to have been deceitfully 
offered (in her guise as the Storyteller), the Art may simply not function, or 
it might even turn against you. 
Type: Chimerical, as this Art is always is careful to manifest in ways 
how strong a cantrip 
Basic 
Protocol: This Art allows you to enforce the rules of changeling court 
protocol on the target, and is generally used by nobles as part of court 
preparations to prevent Unseelie outbursts and hyperactive childlings from 
disrupting the proceedings. A subject may resist by spending a Willpower 
Trait. This cantrip lasts until sunup or sundown, or whenever the caster or 
reigning noble cancels it. The Storyteller has final say over what is suitable 
“protocol” for a situation, and is encouraged to come up with different types 
of court settings, each with its own rules and traditions. Use of this Art on 
multiple targets requires both the Realms of the targets and the Scene Realm. 
Type: Chimerical 
Dictum: This is the power of command. While not as powerful as a Gem, 
Dictum allows you to issue a direct request and it expect it to be carried out, 
provided it takes no more than half an hour to perform and does not place the 
subject in direct danger. (A request to guard someone or something is usually 
acceptable.) A Willpower Trait may be spent to counter the request, but this 
must be declared during the casting of the cantrip to be effective. However, 


the target, most changelings are aware when one is about to be directed at 
them, though Prodigals and mortals may not be. Telepathy or other nonver- 
bal communication of the request is permissible as long as the target can 
clearly understand you; language is a barrier to Dictum. Furthermore, unless 
they are shielded by the Mists, most beings will remember this cantrip’s use 
on them, which has made this Art an increasingly sore spot with wilders and 
commoners as of late. 
I 
Type: Chimerical 
Prerequisite Art: Protocol 
Intermediate 
Grandeur: This Art is proof as to why noble changelings, particularly 
sidhe, were once regarded as gods and goddesses by the rest of the world. By 
performing a Bunk and expending one appearance-related Social Trait 
(Gorgeous, Dignified, etc.), you become imbued with unearthly grace and 
radiance. So awe-inspiring are you that any who wish to harm or even directly 
speak ill of you must first overcome you in a Social Challenge (you receive the 
benefits of your Bunk Traits in regards to all such challenges). Failure means 
the subject must mutely humble herself before you. The effects of Grandeur 
last for one hour, and should be indicated by holding your arms down and away 
from your sides (like Majesty in The Masquerade). Anyone who still wishes 
to contest you, even after losing the first necessary Social Challenge to do so, 
must spend a Willpower Trait for each retest, and automatically loses on all 
ties, regardless of who has more Traits. 
Type: Wyrd 
Weaver Ward: This Art allows you to place a lock or seal on an object, 
door or entrance, preventing it from being used or entered. The area is quite 
literally unable to be picked up, touched, passed through or used by anyone 
except those who you designate when you create the Ward. Optionally, you 
may create some kind of password, bit of poetry or other “security measure” 
that deactivates the Ward temporarily. (Note: Only those who actually use 
the correct security measure will be able to use/open the Ward; others can’t 


Ward requires a Willpower Trait in addition to the cantrip, but lasts until the 
next new moon, another cantrip cancels it, or Banality erodes it. A Storyteller 
should be notified when this Art is used, and an envelope or sign describing 
the nature of the magic at work should be placed on/near the object. 
This Art is directly opposed by the Wayfare Art of Portal Passage, and a 
successful casting of that cantrip will negate this Art. However, the user of 
Portal Passage must spen 
ition to the other costs of 
the Art, and if the 
ent, he may contest an 
are often placed under a Ban to never return. Placing a Geus requires a 
successful cantrip and the expenditure of a Glamour and Willpower Trait; an 
oath of some kind is atmospheric, but not necessary. The subject may only 
resist fulfilling the Geas (without being cursed) by attempting to fall into 
Banality, hoping the Geus becomes null (if you have a Geas to kill someone 
who’s already dead, for example, it becomes nullified), or by spending a 
permanent Willpower for each retest of the Gem Challenge. 
Obviously, this Art is weighted in the caster’s favor, but it is also used 
most sparingly by the few nobles who have it, for fear of risking a commoner 
revolt. ANarrator at least should be present when this Art is cast, and should 
record the exact wording of Geas or Ban to avoid any semantic arguments in 
the future. 
Type: Chimerical 


The Art of traveling and movement, Wayfare was created by bards, 
warriors, heralds and messengers. Those who possess it and advertise the fact 
are carefully watched, as this Art allows for passage into restricted places; 
however, many modem changelings find its mobility and utility a very handy 
combination. As an added benefit, the Mists cover the more blatant uses of 
this Art handily. While Wayfare is costly (almost all of its effects are Wyrd 
Traits may be spent to enact the magic of the cantrip; each Trait allows for a 
jump one story straight up or 10 feet across - 
it also covers jumping back/ 
getting down safely. The action should be paused while the jumping is done, 
but the jump takes place at the conclusion of the tum’s sequence of actions. 
If you use the Art on another, you must still be the one to spend the necessary 
Traits. 
Type: Wyrd 
Quicksilver: This cantrip allows you to move as fast a flicker of light, but 
only for an instant. After performing a successful Bunk, you may spend 
Glamour Traits to gain additional actions this turn at a rate of one per 
additional action, up to a maximum of the number of Bunk Traits you 
received in casting the cantrip. No other tests or challenges are required. So 
if you received a three-Trait Bunk, you may not spend four Glamour for four 
extra actions, only three. These extra actions take place at the same time 


without extra actions may only bid defensive Traits (Tough, Stalwart, etc.), 
cannot injure the changeling as a result of the challenge, and are at a Trait 
penalty equal to the number of actions that have been unanswered so far this 
turn. 
Type: Wyrd 
Prerequisite Art: Hopscotch 
Intermediate 
d observers will 
certainly did not see 
backyard!”) This Art canno 
s or people telekinetically, 
nor can it be used to levitate them against their will; that is the province of 
the Legerdemain Art. Wuyfure requires the expenditure of a Willpower Trait, 
plus a number of Physical Traits for every target affected, plus a number of 
Glamour Traits equal to the number of minutes you wish the targets to stay 
aloft (you get afree minute, but after that you’re on your own). This time must 
be divided for each target involved, i.e., if you have eight minutes and four 
targets, you can give each person two minutes, or give one person six minutes 
and the others 30 seconds each, etc. You are included in this time division, 
although only you (and aNarrator) know how much flight time everyone has 
left. Once in the air, the targets have complete control over their own flight, 
for however long it lasts. This Art is a wonderfully flashy way to make a Fair 
Escape, but be warned that this is a tough cantrip to keep going for extended 
periods of time, and can be truly nasty to try to re-cast when falling.. .. 
Type: Wyrd 


Flicker Flash: This Art allows you to blink out of existence in one place 
and reappear in another. Both the subject and the destination should be 
known to you, or you should possess at least a part or image of them. If you do 
not, then you must make a Simple Test after the cantrip is cast. Failure means 
you take a Health Level of actual damage from the stress of the journey, and 
win or lose you still must count out fifteen seconds on the ground of 
disorientation during which you may only defend yourself. In addition to the 
regular cantrip, this Art requires a Glamour Trait and takes five real minutes 
to complete; this process may be made instantaneous (and thus a Fair Escape) 
with three Glamour Traits. During the time of transport you must not be 
interrupted, or the cantrip fails. In addition, you must make a Static Physical 
Challenge if the destination is particularly far off, well hidden or well guarded. 
Failure means you arrive in an embarrassing or inconvenient place. Difficulty 
is the Storyteller’s discretion. With her permission you may transport mul- 
tiple targets at once, but each additional Realm or target costs another 
Glamour Trait. 
Type: Wyrd 


P\CtOR 
This Realm has to do with people, characters of all kinds. Normal 
mortals, enchanted mortals, Autumn People, mages, psychics, Dreamers, 
werewolves, vampires, fomori and wraiths are all covered by the Actor Realm, 
even if in animal or 
form. However, other 
the Actor Realm, e 
if the Wyrd has been 
e order in which 
recognize her face. 
Complete Stranger - 
You must know absolutely nothing about a 
person, although she cannot be hostile toward you. 
Dire Enemy- You must be opposed to someone, hate him, or otherwise 
be in competition or conflict. Note that a friend with whom you are engaged 
in a genuine conflict falls under this Realm as well. 
NatuRe 
power of Nature. 
This Realm comprises the awesome forces, elements, denizens and raw 
Raw Material - 
Unlivi 
terials: wood, rope, paper, etc. If 
Verdant Forest 
aware and intelligent 
s who have assumed 
tions, geothermal re 
pure form (Einsteinium is 
Fae 
This is the Realm of the fae, and includes all things of the Dreaming: the 
kith, the Nunnehi, chimera, cantrips, freeholds, treasures, faerie seemings, 
etc. 


Lofty Noble-Noble 
changeling. Any sidhe or commoner with theTitle 
Manifold Chimera - 
Chimera and chimerical items of all kinds. 
Elusive Gallain- All fae beings not covered above: Nunnehi, inanimae 
Dweomer of Glamour - 
Anything composed of Glamour: cantrips, 
Background is fair game. 
and anything else unexplainable but still related to the Dreaming. 
treasures, freeholds, glens, dross, etc. 
if a man found a b 
ewelry, clothing, even 
rts. Weapons like clubs, 
ing parts, but does not 
stood. Toaster ovens, cars, printing presses, and many nocker machines - 
when explained to other nockers - 
fall into this category. 
Arcane Artifact - 
Any item not covered above, usually with complex 
This Realm dete 
llows cantrips to have an 


This Realm allows you to put a “delay” on a cantrip; you can then leave 
the area, confident that your cantrip will take effect at a later time. This Realm 
may be combined with any cantrip in order to delay its activation, although 
high Banality erodes 
The downside of this 
f turns delay you pick 
pass before the cantrip 
elay possible for a level 
One Mighty Minute 
Nice Siesta - 
Up to one scene/hour (whichever comes first). 
What Was I Saying? - 
Up to one week. 
CuntRip Cusring m a d e  
(Relatively) Simple 
The following steps are the order that all cantrip casting must follow. 
Though they may seem complicated, once practiced they (Bunks aside) go as 
fast as any other challenge in live-action. Also, while the Golden Rule 
remains in effect, it is recommended that players and Storytellers be familiar 
with this system before any changes are made to it, as excessive tinkering can 
easily throw the balance of changeling magic out of whack. 
11 ARC 
The first thing you have to do is decide what Art you’ll be using in casting 
the cantrip. There can never be more than one Art involved in a cantrip, and 
the Art must be defined as either chimerical or Wyrd (specified in the Art 
description). Chimerical cantrips affect either only enchanted beings (Kithain, 
enchanted mortals or Prodigals, chimera) or appear coincidental to the 
mundane world, and thus do not directly violate the laws of reality. Wyrd 
cantrips affect both realities in a direct and obvious way, and are only 
protected by the Mists. A Wyrd cantrip automatically costs an extra point of 
Glamour. 
2) Realm 
You must decide how it is you’ll perform your fae magic, or what you’ll use 
it on, by picking a Realm. Typically your choice of Realm describes what you 
will affect with your Art, although you can get quite creative with your 


permits). For example, a changeling who wishes to use the Hopscotch Art on 
a mortal but who doesn’t have the Actor Realm might try using the first level 
of Prop to catapult the mortal’s clothing (and hope the mortal doesn’t die from 
the resulting wedgie). Not all Realms are necessarily compatible with all Arts, 
however, and the Storyteller’s judgment is final in deciding what combina- 
tions do and don’t work. 
At this point, you must also declare it if you are using the Realms of Scene 
(to affect a group or area) or Time (to delay the time the cantrip will take 
effect) in addition to whatever other Realms the cantrip requires. If your kith 
has an Affinity with the Realm you wish to use, you are one Trait up on any 
tests related to the cantrip. 
Note: To affect a group of animals or sentients, such as another band of 
changelings, you must combine the right level of Scene with the appropriate 
level of Fae. 
3) ‘Bunk 
Randomly select a Bunk and perform whatever action(s) it requires. 
Numbering the Bunks on back of your character sheet and having someone 
else call out a random number works best, although any random system can 
work. At this time a Glamour Trait may also be expended to allow you to 
select randomly one additional Bunk. Both of these Bunks must be performed 
for the cantrip to be successful, but doing so can greatly increase the 
changeling’s chances of success, as both Bunk Trait totals are added together. 
Keeping track of the number of BunkTraits gained is quite important to some 
Arts, as Bunk Traits are always added to the number of Traits a changeling has 
for the purposes of the challenge itself, and can determine such things as 
damage and duration of a cantrip. Failure to perform the Bunk(s) immediately 
cancels the cantrip. 
Once the Bunk is complete, the player may immediately move on to the 
rest of the cantrip casting phases. If the Bunk requires a player to perform an 
action which their character is currently capable of but which the player 
cannot or will not do, he may opt to sit out for an amount of time recorded on 
the character sheet by the Storyteller as being equivalent to the time that 
performing the Bunk would have taken. During this time, the player must 
count aloud (this can be waived if the Bunk takes several minutes or more), 
and he may still be interrupted as normal, which may in turn negate the 
cantrip. He must also describe what his character is doing to any other 
characters in the area who would notice, and he is still capable of interaction 
with those in the game to the extent the Bunk itself might allow. 
Note: A player may, due to the demands of preference or circumstance, 
choose to pass on performing a Bunk by spending a Glamour Trait. This 
action must, however, be declared before the player would have been assigned 
a Bunk for a cantrip; you can’t wait to see if you’ve gotten a lousy or 


which require Bunk Traits to operate cannot be performed without a Bunk, 
although cantrips which merely add Bunk Traits to a caster’s bid or determine 
the duration of the magic can allow for this substitution; the caster simply is 
considered to have zero Bunk Traits for those purposes. Sometimes, however, 
a changeling needs a quick cantrip so badly he is willing to accept this 
reduction in power. 
4) Realm Check 
You reveal to the target (or to the Storyteller, if the target is an animal, 
place, or thing) what Realm you used to cast the cantrip. If the Realm you 
chose is inapplicable, for whatever reason, your cantrip immediately fails. For 
example, if you used the Realm of Hearty Commoner, and found out your target 
had been knighted, your cantrip is immediately rendered void. If there is a 
irresolvable dispute over the accuracy of the Realm, a Storyteller or Narrator 
should be consulted - 
their judgment is final in all cases. Note: All Traits 
spent and actions taken up to this point are still considered spent and/or 
performed, even if the cantrip fails. 
5) Banalicy 
The target may now choose whether or not to use its Banality in its 
defense, or the Kithain asks the Banality of an item or area from a Storyteller 
or Narrator. Everything has a permanent Banality rating ranging from zero to 
10, with 10 being the highest; eachpermanent Banality Trait allows the target 
to go up one Trait on any cantrip-related tests or remove one Simple Test 
retest for the cantrip in question, though choosing to use Banality in this way 
immediately earns the user a Trait of temporary Banality. If the target is an 
item or area, its permanent Banality either sets the difficulty of any Static 
Challenges against the item/location or removes one Simple Test retest per 
Trait; it may not “actively” use Banality to resist, and does not gain additional 
Traits or Banality. If you are performing a cantrip in the presence of Banal 
witnesses, but not directly on those witnesses, the difficulty of any Static 
Challenges is still automatically at least the rating of the observer with the 
highest Banality rating. 
6 )  Tescs 
Perform any tests or challenges required by the Art, following any rules 
or guidelines about retesting as specified in the Art description. Each Art 
notes the type of challenge - 
Physical, Mental or Social - 
that it requires. 
The rule of thumb to use when testing is: 
Against an object or place, it is either a Simple Test or a Static 
Challenge with the Storyteller. 
Against an animal or another mortal, fae or Prodigal, it is always a 
regular challenge against that character unless otherwise specified. Unlike a 


If you are attempting to cast on a group of characters by using the Scene 
Realm, treat it as a regular group challenge, with all the retest and Trait rules 
of a cantrip in effect. So when casting against another player, unless the Art 
says otherwise, assume it’s a normal rock-paper-scissors challenge of the 
appropriate category. 


Assume no retests are possible unless otherwise stated-Simple 
Tests are 
often an exception to this, and sidhe of House Eiluned may use the Boon of 
their house to retest any cantrip they cast (but not which is cast on them). 
Additionally, a fae with the Gremayre Ability and the same Realms as the 
caster used may spend levels of this Ability to retest a cantrip cast on her on 
a one-for-one basis, although she cannot retest her own cantrips this way. 
Note that a target may not necessarily realize a cantrip has been cast on him, 
even if he wins a challenge, unless some evidence is provided or it is somehow 
brought to his attention. Of course, a pooka screaming out an obscene 
limerick as the prelude to aviolent Holly Strike cantrip might just tip someone 
off that something’s not quite right, and Prodigals (or worse yet, Dauntain) are 
often adept at noticing faerie magic. 
8a) Sucess - Now Pony Up 
If your cantrip succeeded and the Art requires any Trait expenditures, 
you must pay them at this time. The effects of the cantrip should of course be 
explained to the target(s), as well as to all in the area who would notice the 
effects and/or might soon also be affected by them. All Bunk Traits gained are 
immediately lost. Standard cantrip casting costs, in addition to whatever 
might be required in the Art description, are as follows: 
A Wyrd cantrip costs one Glamour Trait. If a changeling has called 
upon the Wyrd to make his fae self physical reality, all cantrips are automati- 
cally considered Wyrd. 
Chimerical cantrips cast on enchanted beings or inanimate things cost 
no Glamour. 
Any cantrip cast on a Banal target costs one Glamour Trait. (This is not 
cumulative with the cost of a Wyrd cantrip above.) Banal targets are 
unenchanted mortals or Prodigals, “sleeping” fae, and anyone without a 
Glamour rating. Note that having Banal witnesses doesn’t count for this 
requirement. 
Choosing to perform a cantrip without a Bunk costs a Glamour Trait. 
A Glamour Trait may be spent to put a changeling one Trait up on a 
cantrip Challenge; up to five Glamour Traits may be spent this way on a single 
cantrip. This is cumulative with Bunk Traits. 
AGlamour Trait can be spent to gain one additional Bunk for a cantrip. 
Use of the Scene or Time Realms purely as a modifier - 
to increase area 
or delay the cantrip’s effects - 
costs an additional Glamour Trait. 
861 FailuRe - Ouch! 
If the cantrip failed, and the target actively used Banality to resist the 
cantrip (to get Traits up on the challenge, etc.), the Kithain who lost gains 
an additional Trait of Banality. Also, she loses any Bunk Traits she gained 
from the cantrip at this time. 
157 


Conresmd Challenge 
Random, a pooka in a jam, wants to cast a cantrip using the Advanced 
Wayfare Art, Flicker Flash, to teleport himself away from Marie, an eshu he’s 
accidentally annoyed. He knows he’s not nobility, so therefore he can use his 
Fae Realm of Hearty Commoner to affect himself. Jim, Random’s player, notes 
that he has no Affinity for the Realm in question; if he did, he’d be one Trait 
up on any challenges already. He’s picked his Art and his Realm to use, so he 
moves on to the next stage: the Bunk. He could skip this step by spending a 
Glamour Trait, but Jim feels he’s going to need the Traits when it comes to 
a challenge - 
Marie out-muscles him by quite a bit, and Wayfare Arts call for 
a Physical Challenge. So he bites the chimerical bullet and decides to do a 
Bunk, praying for a quick, easy one. 
Random has a Glamour of five, which means he should have five Bunks 
written on his sheet. Jim asks Marie’s player, Sarah, to pick a number between 
one and five to randomly determine his Bunk. She picks number three; that 
corresponds to Whistk Tunelessly, a four-Trait bunk (and an easy one!). This 
means that for the Physical Challenge required by the Wayfare Art, Random 
will be four Traits “up” - 
considered to have four more Physical Traits than 
he actually does if the challenge comes to a tie or an overbid. Random could 
spend Glamour and get another Bunk, but he’s already looking at a four-Trait 
Glamour expenditure to instantly teleport himself (a requirement of this 
Wayfare power), and he might not have the time to do two Bunks anyway; 
Whistle Tunekssly will have to do. Random whistles a few bars of his favorite 
song as Marie closes in, and thus completes his Bunk just in time. (Jim can skip 
the Realm check phase in this case, since he knows the Realm is correct 
because he’s using it on himself alone; it’s awfully unlikely that he was 
knighted and didn’t notice!) Furthermore, since the cantrip doesn’t directly 
affect her, Marie can’t elect to use her Banality to resist Random’s cantrip. 
She’ll just have to hope her knife hand is quicker than his magic. The two are 
now ready to challenge. 
Marie declares she’ll attack Random as her action: “I’ll Ferociously stab 
your pink pooka butt!” Random doesn’t have to declare a specific Physical 
Trait for his bid, since he’s casting a cantrip. The two do rock-paper-scissors, 
and both play rock, producing a tie. The two then compare Traits. Marie has 
seven Physical Traits, and Random has only four, but wait - 
he gets to add 
the four Bunk Traits from Whistk Tunelessly, bringing him up to eight Physical 
Traits. Random wins, and Marie cannot retest, so the lucky pooka vanishes 
an instant before the chimerical dagger would have found his Adam’s apple. 
As he moves to his new location, Jim notes that he has lost the Bunk Traits 
from the cantrip, bringing him back down to four Physical Traits again. 


Count Brendan Beaumain, sidhe hacker extraordinaire, is doing a bit of 
legwork to try to rescue his love, Kelli, from a nasty gang of redcaps. Climbing 
up onto the roof of a building overlooking their hideout, he decides to use his 
Wayfare Art of Hopscotch to jump off the building and sail gracefully over the 
walls into the compound. He has prepared the Hopscotch Art, the Fae Realm 
of Lofty Noble (for himself), and since he wants the better chance of success 
Bunk Traits give him (and has a lot of time on his hands), he gets the 
Storyteller to pick a number to select his Bunk. The Bunk turns out to be 
Gluttony, which requires the count to smoke an entire pack of cigarettes at 
once, and is a four-Trait Bunk. The count carries cigarettes for just such an 
occasion, but his player, Pete, doesn’t smoke (and even if he did, that would 
probably be a little much for him). He instead looks at the time the Bunk 
requires him to sit out if he doesn’t want to perform it in actuality - 
one 
minute. Pete sits out of play, counting out loud, for a minute, during which 
time the count is considered to be puffing away. If anyone approached, Pete 
would have to tell her what she saw the count doing, and she could interact 
with him if she liked. Fortunately for the intrepid sidhe, nobody knows he’s 
up here, so his Bunk is uninterrupted. 
At the end of allotted time, Pete stands up and resumes playing (and 
hacking and coughing) the count normally. Pete asks the Storyteller the 
Banality level of the area, since no one is actively opposing him, and is told 
it is a six. That means the Static Physical Challenge from the Wayfare Art will 
be against a difficulty of six Traits. The count is a little wimpy, with only three 
Physical Traits normally, but the four Bunk Traits he got from the Gluttony 
Bunk bring him up to seven- just enough to have a chance at this challenge! 
He shoots rock-paper-scissors against the Storyteller and wins. The count, 
coughing as quietly as he can, soars off the roof, ready to give those dirty rotten 
redcaps quite a scare. 


Time in Mind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real life, moving forward 
relentlessly. During gameplay, pretty much everything is played out in real 
time, and players are expected to stay in character unless a rules question 
necessitates a stop in the action. 
During the course of a story, it is assumed that a player is always “in 
character.” There is a reason for this: Dropping out of character ruins the 
atmosphere for everyone involved, and players should do so only under 
certain circumstances. If a player wishes to talk through challenges or needs 
to take a break, he should inform a Narrator and should not interact with any 
of the other players while out of character. By schmoozing with an in- 
character player, you’re taking her out of the game as well - 
and robbing 
others of the chance to interact with her character. 
The only other reason for dropping out of character during gameplay 
occurs when a Narrator calls for a “hold.” This may be necessary to resolve a 
dispute or to change the scene if the story requires it. When “Hold!” is called, 
all players within hearing distance must stop whatever they are doing until the 
Narrator calls out the word “Resume.” Holds should be kept to a minimum, 
since they interrupt the flow of the story, but matters of safety, honesty and 
fairness are always good reasons for a hold. 
c 
h a1 1 eng es 
During the course of most stories, there inevitably comes a time when two 
or more players will come into a conflict that cannot be resolved through 
roleplaying alone. This system allows for conflicts to be resolved simply and 


challenge. In most cases, a Narrator does not need to be present when a 
challenge is played. 
Using TRaizrs 
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first 
understand what defines a character’s abilities. You create a character by 
choosing a number of adjectives that describe and define that person as an 
individual. These adjectives are called Traits, and are fully described in 
Chapter 2 of The Shining Host. These Traits are used to declare a challenge 
against another character or against a static force represented by a Narrator. 
hicia1 ’Bid 
A challenge begins when a player “bids” one of her Traits against an 
opponent. At the same time, she declares what the conditions of the 
challenge are, e.g. firing a gun or attacking with a rapier. The defender then 
decides how to respond -either by relenting immediately (and accepting the 
conditions of the challenge) or by bidding one of his own Traits. 
During bidding, players should only employ Traits that seem sensible 
within the context of the situation. In other words, when bidding Traits, a 
player should use Traits from the same category as her opponent does, whether 
Physical, Social or Mental. Experienced players may offer each other more 
creative leeway, but only by mutual and prior agreement. 
If the defender relents, she automatically loses the challenge (for ex- 
ample, if she were being attacked, she would suffer a wound). If she matches 
the challenger’s bid, the two immediately go to a test (described below). The 
Traits bid are put at risk, as the loser of the test not only loses the challenge, 
but the Trait she bid as well. 
Tesring 
Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they 
immediately go to a test. The test itself is not what you may think - 
the 
outcome is random, but no cards or dice are used. The two players face off 
against one another by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors (see below). It may sound 
a little silly, but it works. If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the 
duration of the story (this usually means the rest of the evening). Essentially, 
you’ve lost some of your self-confidence in your own capabilities. You can no 
longer use that Trait effectively, at least not until you regain confidence in 
your Traits. 
A test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over and 
the winner is declared. There are two possible outcomes of a test: either one 
player is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
If one player wins, then the loser accepts the conditions of the challenge 
(taking a blow, losing a staredown, etc.) and gameplay resumes. In the case of 


V
I
 
which they have bid (Physical, Social or Mental). The player with the lesser 
number of Traits loses the test and thus loses the challenge. Note that the 
number of Traits you’ve lost in previous challenges (or for any other reason, 
such as a Flaw) count toward this total. 
You may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only by declaring 
fewer Traits than you actually have -you 
may never say that you have more 
Traits than you actually do. This allows you to keep the actual number of 
Traits you possess a secret, although doing so may be risky. 
The challenger is always the first to declare his number of Traits. If both 
players declare the same number of Traits, the challenge is considered a draw 
and both characters lose the Trait(s) they bid. 
Example of Play: Marie the eshu has caught up with that pesky pooka 
Random, and is about to put some hurting on him. She gets within combat 
range, and makes her initial bid (“Time to start singing soprano from a 
Ferocious kick, bunny boy!”). In response, Random tries simply to evade her 
attack and get away, so he bids Nimble (“I’m far too Nimble for you to catch!”). 
They test, and both shoot Scissors-a 
tie. They must now declare the number 
of Traits they have to resolve the tie. Marie has nothing to hide, so she 
declares all seven of her Physical Traits. Random, on the other hand, only has 
four. He now suffers a wound, as well as losing the Nimble Trait he bid, and 
Marie can choose to continue to attack him if she wishes. To say that Random 
is not loving life at this point is a serious understatement. 
Incidentally, certain advanced powers allow some characters to use 
gestures other than Rock, Paper and Scissors. Before players can use these 
gestures in a test, they must explain what they are and how they are used. 
Rock-PapeR-ScissoRs 
If you don’t happen to know (or remember) what we mean by Rock- 
Paper-Scissors, here’s the concept: you and another person face off and, on the 
count of three, show one of three hand gestures. “Rock is a basic fist. “Paper” 
is a flat hand. “Scissors” is represented by sticking out two fingers. You then 
compare the two gestures to determine the winner. Rock crushes Scissors. 
Scissors cuts Paper. Paper covers Rock. Identical signs indicate a tie. 


to add a few bells and whistles. 
Many characters have Negative Traits; Traits that an opponent can use 
against a character. After you have each bid a Trait during the initial bid of 
any challenge, you can call out a Negative Trait that you believe your 
opponent possesses. If he does indeed possess the Negative Trait, your 
opponent is forced to bid an additionalTrait, although you must still risk your 
one Trait as usual. If he does not possess that Negative Trait, you must risk an 
additional Trait. You may integrate as many Negative Traits as you wish one 
by one during the initial bid phase of a challenge, as long as you can pay the 
price if you’re wrong. 
If your opponent does not have additional Traits to bid, then your Trait 
is not at risk during the challenge. Additionally, if you guess more than one 
Negative Trait that your opponent cannot match, you gain that many 
additional Traits in the case of a tie or an overbld. The same works in reverse, 
favoring your opponent if you do not have additional Traits remaining to 
match incorrect Negative Trait guesses. 
Example of Play: Sir Killian, pooka knight, is trying to impress Raphael, 
a Toreador vampire, into coming along with him to investigate a strange 
disturbance. Killian starts with his initial bid (“I’m very Persuasive about my 
recruiting efforts.”), but Raphael, in no hurry to run off with a bunch of fae, 
responds with his bid (“I’m too Dignified to be seen running around town with 
a bunch of kids.”). Sir Killian then suggests that Raphael is Callous (“I know 
you’re Callous, but you’ve got a personal stake in this.”). However, Raphael 
does not possess this Trait (“I’m not Callous; I just don’t want to go!”). Now 
Sir Killian has to risk an extra Trait, such as Beguiling, if he wants to continue 
It can be risky to bid Negative Traits. If you’re sure you’ll be successful, 
though, the use of these Traits can be a great way to raise the stakes for your 
opponent, perhaps to the point where he relents rather than risk additional 
Traits. Just make sure your sources are good before you try.. .. 


Overbidding is the system by which experienced characters (who often 
have considerably more Traits than younger opponents) may prevail in a 
challenge, even if they lose the initial test. An experienced grump with 18 
Social Traits should be able to crush a fledge with five. This system is designed 
to make that possible. 
Using OveRbids 
Once the players have made the test, the loser has the option of calling 
for an “overbid.” In order to do so, you must also risk a new Trait; the original 
one has already been lost. At this point, the two players reveal the number of 
Traits they possess, starting with the player who called for an overbid. If you 
have at least double your opponent’s number of Traits in the appropriate 
category, you may attempt another test. As with a tie, you may state a number 
of Traits less than the actual number you have and keep your true power 
secret. This can be dangerous, though, unless you are completely confident in 
your estimation of your opponent’s abilities. 
Example of Play: Lord Vandermere, anunseelie sidhe magician, is being 
annoyed by a childling named Remi, who persists in trying to prank him when 
he has wizardly business that needs attending. Vandermere tries to scare her 
away with a Social Test (“I am far too Intimidating for you to do this to me.”), 
while she persists in playing with him (“I’m too Witty to ignore, you big 
dork!”). They test, and Remi wins, but Vandermere, confident he has enough 
Social Traits to crush this pest, calls for an overbid. He imperiously announces 
that he has 14 Social Traits, and Remi admits that she only has five. 
Vandermere risks another Trait (“I am now using a Commanding tone of voice 
to get you to leave me alone!”), and they do another test. This time 
Vandermere wins. Remi must scurry away to pester someone else while 
Vandermere goes and advances his evil machinations. Vandermere loses the 
first Trait he bid, as does Remi, but thanks to the overbid he has now won the 
test itself. 
Achallenger who fails on a normal Social or Mental Challenge must wait 
at least five minutes before attempting the failed challenge on the same target 
again (and not after spending the next four and a half minutes arguing the 
rules call with a Narrator, either). This does not include tests that are failed 
but later redeemed through overbids. 
Staci c Challenges 
Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge against a Narrator 
rather than against another player, such as when you are trying to pick a lock 
or break a code. Under such circumstances, the Narrator chooses a difficulty 
appropriate to the task you are attempting and you bid the appropriate Trait, 
then immediately perform a test against the Narrator. The test proceeds 
exactly as it would if you were testing against another character. Of course, 


overbid as well. 
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books and 
doors. These notes indicate the type of challenge that must be won for 
something to occur (such as understanding a book, opening a door or 
identifying an artifact). With experience, you may learn how difficult it is to 
open a locked door. However, difficulty ratings can be as different as lock 
Simple Tesm 
Simple Tests are used to determine if you can succeed at something when 
there is no real opposition. Often used when determining the extent of a 
Discipline’s effect, most Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, 
although some may. 
When a Simple Test is called, players use the Rock-Paper-Scissors test 
against the Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds on a win or a tie, 
although at Narrator discretion, it may be necessary for the player to win. 
Health 
A character in The Shining Host has four Health Levels that represent 
the degree of injury the character has suffered: Healthy, Bruised, Wounded, 
and Incapacitated. If a Healthy character loses a combat challenge, she 
becomes Bruised. If she loses two, she becomes Wounded, and so on. Note 
that a character has four levels of Health each for both the mundane and 
enchanted world - 
these wounds must be counted separately. If a character 
is injured chimerically as well as actually, he takes the highest level of damage 
for consideration of wound penalties. Chimerical and “real” damage should 
not be combined in any way, shape or form. 
Example of Play: Lord Thomas Magbane, sidhe warrior of House 
Gwydion, has had a rough day on the field. He’s been shot by a group of 
mortals and attacked by a raging dragon chimera. In game terms, he has taken 
a Bruised Health Level of actual damage (from the gunshot), and has been 
Wounded chimerically (from the dragon’s claws). When considering wound 
penalties, he ignores the Bruised actual level and suffers only the effects of 
being chimerically Wounded, because he is more injured chimerically. This 
does not mean the Bruised level of actual damage has gone away; it simply 
means that he’s feeling more pain from the dragon’s claws. If the situation had 
been reversed and Thomas had been Wounded by the gunshots and Bruised 
by the claws, he would ignore the chimerical pain in favor of the actual one 
- 
the difference in the two examples being that unenchanted mortals 
wouldn’t be able to see his chimerical wounds (and thus believe him an 
excellent mime - 
brrr), whereas the gunshot is pretty obvious to anyone, 
enchanted or otherwise. 


having perhaps suffered a few scrapes and bruises, but little more. In order to 
enter anew challenge, a Bruised character must risk an additional Trait. Thus, 
in order to have even a chance in a challenge, a Bruised character must bid 
at least two Traits. 
Wounded - 
When a character is Wounded, she is badly hurt. She 
might be bleeding freely from open wounds, or may even have broken bones. 
A Wounded character must bid two Traits to have a chance in a challenge. 
In addition, she will always lose when she ties during a test, even if she has 
more Traits than her opponent. If she has fewer Traits, her opponent gets a 
free additional test. 
Incapacitated -When 
a character is Incapacitated, he is immobilized 
completely out of play for at least 10 minutes. After 10 minutes has passed, the 
character is still immobile and may not enter into challenges until he has 
healed at least one Health Level. He is at the mercy of other characters, is only 
capable of whispering and is barely aware of his surroundings while in this 
state. A character who takes another wound in this state dies, chimerically or 
otherwise. 
Healing 
Although changelings possess some Arts which allow them to withstand 
and recover from damage with greater ease than mortals, they are still very 
delicate creatures, particularly when compared to such Prodigal combat 
machines as vampires or werewolves. The balance between faerie and mortal 
halves results in a creation of a being that is both finely balanced and yet 
vulnerable in two worlds. 
Chimerical Damage 
Chimerical damage represents damage caused to a changeling’s faerie 
self, and is not detectable to unenchanted beings. A changeling may be in 
great pain from a chimerical sword wound, but normal mortals will be unable 
to treat or even see anything other than someone doing an excellent rendition 
of a person in pain. A changeling “killed” by chimerical damage does not truly 
die, but merely falls unconscious and forgets her faerie nature for a time; the 
number of Banality Traits she possesses determines how long she remains 
comatose, and what of the Dreaming she remembers upon waking. Chimera 
and chimerical weapon; inflict chimerical damage, unless otherwise noted, as 
do certain Arts. 
Chimerical damage may also be aggravated. Aggravated damage is a deep 
wound on the fae self that cannot be healed in quite the same way as normal 
chimerical damage. While aggravated wounds are often quite dramatic- 
looking, and changelings can be so badly chimerically wounded as to be 
missing eyes or even limbs, chimerical wounds are not simply blood and guts 
injuries. Instead, they represent damage to the hold the Kithain has on his 
faerie self. Suffering too many aggravated wounds drives a changeling to forget 


the ability to let loose “without consequences” remains an important reason 
most changelings only battle each other chimerically. 
Actual Damage 
Actual damage is the type of damage caused by most every normal, non- 
chimerical or enchanted source: guns, bombs, knives, fists, feet, swords, clubs, 
etc. -all the tools and toys of the modern world that are not chimerical. Fire, 
vampire fangs, werewolf claws and even certain sorts of treasures cause 
aggravated damage in real life. 
RecoveRing 
A changeling can recover Health Levels at a rate of one actual wound per 
day of full bed rest and good sleep. Chimerical wounds can also be recovered 
in this way, or a changeling can choose to spend a temporary Glamour Trait 
to heal a Health Level’s worth of chimerical damage. Glamour cannot be 
applied to actual damage. 
Aggravated wounds, either actual or chimerical, cannot be healed with 
a day of rest and/or Glamour Traits; they require three days of bed rest per 
Health Level and a Willpower Trait each to heal fully, at least without 
magical attention. 
Health Levels, normal or chimerical, are completely refreshed if the 
wounded changeling spends a night of undisturbed rest in a freehold. They 
awaken completely healed, although they do not receive the usual benefit of 
Glamour or Willpower from sleeping in a freehold. Aggravated wounds of 
either type heal at a rate of one level per night of sleep in a freehold, but no 
additional charge is needed. Only one changeling may benefit from a 
freehold’s healing powers per night, and they must be kept near the balefire 
that powers the freehold to do so. 
Health Levels lost to cold iron in any form are always considered 
aggravated actual damage; each such wound level suffered also garners the 
changeling a temporary Trait of Banality. 
The CDob Scene 
During the course of many stories, you are inevitably going to be drawn 
into a challenge in which several people are involved. Multiparty challenges 
can be confusing, but if you follow these simple guidelines, you shouldn’t have 
much difficulty in resolving them. These rules are most useful in combat 
challenges, but they can be used with nearly any sort of group challenge. 
The first thing you need to do is to decide who is challenging whom. This 
is usually obvious, but when it’s not, you need a quick way to work things out. 
Simply have everyone involved in the challenge count to three at the same 
time. On three, each player points at the individual he is challenging. 


most people pointing at him. Determine which category of Traits is most 
appropriate - 
Physical, Social or Mental - 
for the challenge. Each player 
pointing at the defender bids one appropriate Trait, and the group chooses a 
leader. The attacking group cannot exceed five people - 
physics demands 
that there is a limit to the number of individuals who can attack a single 
person at one time. 
The defender then bids as many Traits as there are people opposing him. 
If he does not have enough Traits to do so, he automatically loses the 
challenge. Ifhe does have enoughTraits, he performs a test against the chosen 
leader of the attackers. The rest of the challenge continues as normal, 
although only the group leader can compare and overbid Traits. 
If the defender wins the test, he remains unharmed, but he can choose to 
affect only one member of the attacking group - 
usually by inflicting one 
wound (as during combat). Additionally, the attackers lose all Traits they bid. 
If the attackers win, they may inflict one wound, and the defender loses all the 
Traits he risked. 
After the first challenge is concluded, go on to the next one. Continue 
the process until each character who has declared an action has been the 
target of a challenge or has donated Traits. 
O R d e R  OF Challenges 
Some players wonder exactly how to respond when challenged. Typi- 
cally, if someone initiates a Physical Challenge, the defender can only 
respond with PhysicalTraits. He cannot respond by using a cantrip or another 
ability until after the first challenge has been completed. Some cantrips, 
which specify this contingency in their descriptions, are the exceptions to this 
rule. Social and Mental Challenges work the same way. 
CombaTs 
The basic challenge system used in The Shining Host has already been 
presented. This section contains a few basic modifications to the combat 
system and elaboration on it. 
Combat is the usual intent behind Physical Challenges. Essentially, 
combat involves two characters in physical conflict. The players agree what 
the outcome of the challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate Trait, 
and a test is resolved, determining the victor. The following rules allow for 
variances to those basic rules, such as situations using surprise or weapons. 
The agreed outcome of a Physical Challenge usually involves the loser 
being injured. This is not, however, the only result possible. For instance, you 
could say that you want to wrest a weapon from your opponent’s hands or that 
you’re trying to trip him. In short, the result of a challenge can be nearly 
anything the two parties agree upon, from slapping someone’s face to 
dramatically throwing someone through a window. The results of a combat 


rampaging redcap may wish to attack the satyr who offended her, whde the 
satyr may just want to escape pronto). 
S U R p R i S e  
If a player does not respond within three seconds of the declaration of a 
Physical Challenge, the character is considered to have been surprised -he 
is not fully prepared for what’s coming. Sometimes a player is busy with 
another activity, doesn’t hear a challenge or is playing a character who just 
isn’t prepared for the attack (i.e., the character is led into an ambush). It is 
considered highly improper to sneak around whispering challenges to try to 
get an element of surprise. 
Surprise simply means that the outcome of the first challenge in a fight 
can only harm the surprised defender, not the challenger. For instance, if a 
player did not respond in time to an attack, but still won the challenge, the 
challenger would not be injured. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test, 
she may call for a second challenge by risking another Trait, since she was 
operating from the benefit of surprise. With the second challenge, play 
continues, and winners and losers of a challenge are determined as normal. 
Overbidding is permitted for both challenger and challenged in surprise 
situations. 
Surprise is only in effect for the first challenge of a conflict; all further 
challenges are resolved normally, as explained below. 
Weapons 
No real weapons are ever allowed in Mind’s Eye Theatre games. 
Even nonfunctional props are forbidden if they can be mistaken for 
weapons. This system does not use props of any kind, nor are players required 
(or allowed) to strike one another. Weapons are purely an abstraction in this 
game. Weapon cards, which display the facts and statistics of a particular 
weapon, can be used instead. The damage a weapon inflicts is limited only by 
mutual agreement, although it is generally assumed that an injury incurred 
from a blow reduces the target by a Health Level. 
While some weapons have special abilities, most weapons give their 
wielders extra Traits, although sometimes a Negative Trait disadvantage 
offsets this advantage. Each weapon has one to three extra Traits; you can use 
these in any challenge in which you employ the weapon, but you cannot use 
them in place of your Traits when placing your initial bid. Instead, they add 
to your total when comparing Traits during a tie or an overbid (for instance). 
Opponents may use a weapon’s disadvantages, or weaknesses inherent in 
the weapon, in precisely the same way they do Negative Traits. The weapon’s 
Negative Traits can only be used against its wielder and only when appropri- 
ate to the situation. For instance, ifyou’re firing a longbow and your opponent 
wants to apply the weapon’s Negative Trait Clumsy against you, you can 


beforehand. 
~ 
If your opponent names your weapon’s Negative Trait and it is appropri- 
ate to the situation, you suffer a one-Trait penalty (i.e., you are required to risk 
an additional Trait). If your opponent calls out a Negative Trait that doesn’t 
apply to the situation, your opponent suffers a one-Trait penalty in the 
challenge. 
Along with your character card, you carry cards listing the statistics for 
your weapons. Weapon cards specify the capacities of each weapon and allow 
other players to see that you actually possess a weapon - 
when you have a 
weapon card in your hand, you are considered to be holding the weapon. 
Each weapon also has a concealability rating. If you cannot conceal a 
weapon, you must display that card at all times - 
you cannot, for example, 
pull a two-handed sword out from under your trenchcoat. Optionally, you can 
pin weapon cards to your shirt, indicating that, for instance, you have an 
unconcealable weapon slung over your shoulder. 
Note that some weapons have special abilities, such as causing extra 
Health Levels of damage or affecting more than one target. 
Bidding Traits with Weapons 
During a normal hand-to-hand fight, you bid your Physical Traits against 
your opponent’s Physical Traits. However, if you’re using Archery, you can use 
Mental Traits instead. If your opponent is also using a bow or other ranged 
weapon (crossbow, spear, Roman pilum), he too bids Mental Traits. If your 
opponent is not using a distance weapon and is merely trying to dodge, the 
attacker uses Mental Traits to attack, while the defender uses Physical Traits 
to dodge. This is one of the few instances when Traits from different 
Attributes are used against one another. 
Note: Obviously, we can’t go into every single variety of sword, dagger, 
shotgun and shortbow extant in the Gothic-Punk world. The weapons listed 
below are generalized examples, designed with ease of play (and not necessar- 
ily historical accuracy, per se) in mind. Kithain often use both modern and 
archaic weapons as they go from the enchanted to the mundane world, which 
means that a well-armed knight might well carry both a longsword and a gun. 
Please keep this in mind before getting upset over the fact that you’re not 
going to find Trait listings for every implement of destruction ever designed 
in this game. 
Weapon Examples 
KnifeDagger - 
This easily concealed weapon is very common. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Sleeve 
Club - 
This can be anything from a chair leg to a tree limb. 


Negative Traits: Clumsy 
Concealability: Short cloak 
Pistol - 
The classic handgun, from flintlock to Saturday Night 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Pocket 
Broken Bottle - 
A good example of a weapon made from scratch. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Sleeve 
Shotgun - 
A powerful weapon that fires a spray of pellets. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Special Ability: A shotgun may affect up to three targets if they are 
standing immediately next to each other and are at least 20 feet from the 
person firing the shotgun. This is resolved with a single challenge against the 
group. The Traits risked are against the entire group. Up to three separate tests 
are performed (one for each target). In this fashion, it is possible for an 
attacker to simultaneously wound up to three targets with one challenge. If 
any of the three defenders wins, the attacker loses the Trait; however, it is still 
good to be used in the challenge against the other targets of the test. Also, a 
shotgun can do two levels of damage to a target standing within five feet. 
Short sword - 
This blade is usually 18 to 24 inches long and used for 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Short cloak 
Longsword - 
Thts single-edged blade is nearly impossible to conceal. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Concealability: Full-length cloak 
Submachine Gun - 
This weapon is very powerful, but difficult to 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Special Ability: The submachine gun may affect up to five targets if 
they’re standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet 


a group (as described in the section for shotguns). 
hands to use. 
Greatsword - 
This blade is impossible to conceal, and requires two 
Bonus Traits: 5 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Slow, Clumsy 
Concealability: (sound of hysterical laughter) 
Rifle - 
Favored by hunters and snipers. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Not in this lifetime. 
Longbow -This weapon has tremendous range and shocking power, 
but is so tall that it cannot be used indoors. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: None whatsoever 
Special Ability: Chain armor does not protect against longbow attacks, 
and it only takes one shot from a longbow to render a shield useless. (In real 
life, often the arrow would punch through the shield and the arm behind it 
as well.) 
Trebuchets, ballistae, catapaults, mangonels and other siege engines lie 
outside the scope of this game. 
PRorecrion 
Armor 
Armor is the second-best defense against weapon-based attacks (the best, 
of course, is being somewhere far away from the combat). Mind’s Eye Theatre 
uses a simple armor system to determine the effects of armor in combat. There 
are four types of armor in Mind’s Eye Theatre: leather, chain, modem and 
plate. 
Leather armor consists of hardened leather stitched together. A charac- 
ter wearing leather armor does not gain any Negative Traits by doing so, and 
the armor absorbs the first health level the character takes in combat during 
a session. After the first health level has been absorbed, the armor is useless. 
Chain armor is made from hundreds of tiny rings of steel interwoven to 
form a “fabric” of metal. While chain mail absorbs the first two Health Levels 
of damage for its wearer, it comes with the Negative Trait: Heavy. Chain 
armor is also permeable to arrow fire, which goes through this defense as if it 
were nonexistent. Modern armor usually consists of either plastic body armor 
or Kevlar vests. In either case, modern armor can absorb two Health Levels 
ofdamage before being rendered useless. However, modem armor is unknown 
in the Dreaming, and thus is useless for stopping chimerical damage. 


Plate mail is, as one might expect, the stereotypical solid steel armor one 
sees in movies and on the cover of fantasy novels. This sort of armor is 
fantastically heavy, and gains the Negative Traits: Heavy and Clumsy. Plate 
armor sops up the first three Health Levels of damage. 
Shields 
A shield is nothing more than an edged board, usually round or targe- 
shaped, worn on the arm to block opponents’ blows. Shields are often 
reinforced to stand up to multiple blows, and some have metal bosses in the 
middle for bashing purposes. (Treat shields as having a single bonus Trait and 
the Negative Trait: Clumsy for attack purposes.) Shields are considered to be 
indestructible, except in the special cases noted above. 
For purposes of Mind’s Eye Theatre, there are two classifications of 
shield: small and large. Using a shield precludes using a bow or two-handed 
melee weapon. Also, shields are impossible to conceal. 
A small shield has the Negative Trait: Heavy. Whenever anyone attacks 
the bearer of the shield successfully, the attacker must then succeed or tie on 
a Simple Test, or the shield absorbs the damage. A large shield has the 
Negative Traits: Heavy and Clumsy. Whenever anyone attacks the bearer of 
the shield successfully, the attacker must then succeed on a Simple Test, or 
the shield absorbs the damage. 
Ranged Combat 
Many weapons allow you to stand at a distance from a target and engage 
him in combat. Insuchsituations, you still go over to the target (after shouting 
“Bang!” or “Twang!”) and engage in a challenge. Ranged combat, inciden- 
tally, is one of the few instances in which Traits of a similar type are not bid 
against one another; in ranged combat the attacker uses Mental Traits while 
174 


both characters bid Mental Traits). 
If you have surprised your opponent, even if you lose the first test, you 
have the option of calling for a second test. Once you call the second 
challenge, play continues as normal. Your target is considered surprised for 
the first attack, and if he has no ranged weapon with which to return fire, he 
is considered “surprised” for as long as you can attack him without facing 
resistance (that is, if he wins on a challenge, you don’t take damage). 
If your target is aware of you before you make your initial ranged attack 
and has a ranged weapon of his own, he is not considered surprised for your 
first attack. He may shoot back right away, and your challenges are resolved 
as stated below. After your first arrow or bullet is fired (the first challenge is 
resolved), your target may attempt to return fire, assuming he is armed. The 
loser of a firefight challenge loses a Health Level. 
If the defender is unarmed, he may declare his victory condition as 
escape, providing he is not cornered. If the defender wins the challenge, the 
attacker remains unharmed, but his target, the defender, has escaped from 
view and must be searched out if the attacker decides to press the attack. In 
instances such as this, a new challenge cannot be made for at least five 
minutes. 
C O V e R  
Fighting with hand-to-hand weapons - 
clubs, knives or swords - 
requires that combatants be within reach of each other. Fighting with ranged 
weapons allows combatants to stand apart; participants can therefore “dive 
for cover.” When you resolve each ranged combat challenge, you can present 
one Trait of cover to add to your total number of Traits. These cover Traits 
can’t be used for bidding, but they do add toyour total when comparing Traits. 
You can find cover behind nearby obstacles as long so they are within your 
reach (don’t actually dive for them). ANarrator might be required to tell you 
what cover is around, but if combatants know the area, they can agree upon 
what cover is available without slowing the action. In some instances, there 
may be no cover, leaving a combatant in the open with only his own defensive 
Traits. 
If cover is extensive - 
a brick wall, perhaps - 
it may be worth more than 
one Trait for one challenger. The number of Traits available for cover is left 
for challengers to agree upon, or for a Narrator to decree. Hiding behind a car, 
for example, might be worth two cover Traits, while hiding behind some 
sheetrock might only count as one. If one combatant goes completely under 
cover - 
so that he cannot be seen at all and is thoroughly protected -he is 
considered impossible to hit. The attacker must change his position to get a 
clear shot. 


Calling Upon zrhe WyRd 
This special action allows a changeling to bring her faerie self and any 
chimera or chimerical companions she possesses into the real world for a time. 
To call upon the Wyrd, a changeling must spend a Glamour Trait and 
Willpower Trait, and do nothing but concentrate for a full 10 seconds - 
this 
process can be made instantaneous with the expenditure of two additional 
Glamour Traits. At the end of this time, the changeling appears to the real 
world exactly as she does to the enchanted world - 
a troll now stands nine 
feet tall with blue skin, a pooka bears her animal features, a satyr has goat legs 
and horns, etc. All chimera worn or carried, and all chimerical companions 
owned also become real, and can inflict real damage on anything, even 
unenchanted mortals. A chimerical sword now does real damage, and can 
actually kill a foe instead of merely damaging him chimerically; a chimerical 
dragon can consume family pets with reckless abandon, and will deal real 
damage with its fiery breath. 
While using this power, the changeling may still see and interact with 
both the real and enchanted world normally. In addition, Wyrd Birthrights 
such as a troll’s Titan’s Power or a sidhe’s Awe and Beauty, which are normally 
ineffective around the unenchanted, grant the changeling full benefits; Wyrd 
Frailties also apply to their full extent. 
However, the downside of calling upon the Wyrd is that all cantrips cast 
are considered Wyrd cantrips automatically, and the changeling takes real 
damage from all chimera and chimerical weaponry. The effects are real, 
regardless of whether a changeling’s opponent has also called upon the Wyrd. 
As a result, a Kithain who has called upon the Wyrd cannot suffer regular 
chimerical defeat, only actual death. 
The transformation is canceled after one hour or if the character is 
rendered unconscious, at which point the fae soul retreats back into the 
Dreaming for a while and the mortal seeming reappears. For roleplaying 
purposes, when a character uses this power she drops her green bandanna (if 
such was used) and makes any other chimerical prop or creature cards she is 
carrying noticeable to the rest of the group. Furthermore, if she is not already 
attired and outfitted as her character’s faerie self, the fae should immediately 
describe her guise to everyone in the area, and to everyone who sees her for 
as long as the call upon the Wyrd lasts. Note that any unenchanted beings 
who view the changeling’s fae form automatically come under the effects of 
the Mists once they have left the changeling’s immediate vicinity. 


Similar to both calling upon the Wyrd and the Enchanted Stroke 
(below), this technique is an especially nasty use of chimera, but it sometimes 
the only way for a changeling to defend himself. By spending two Willpower 
Traits, a changeling may make a single chimerical weapon (and nothing else) 
become real to an unenchanted being for the duration of one challenge and 
one challenge only. The weapon will inflict actual damage, and can kill 
enchanted and unenchanted alike. To mundane observers, the weapon seems 
to spring from nowhere, and the Mists will cover any uses of this technique 
in time. 
If the challenge fails, the changeling must still spend the Willpower 
Trait. Furthermore, killing still incurs the usual Banality penalty for the fae 
wielding the weapon. At the Storyteller’s discretion, changelings with 
multiple actions due to Arts such as Quicksilver may retain their weapon for 
the duration of all their attacks that turn, but regardless the blade becomes 
chimerical again after the last additional action is taken. 
The Dolorous Blow is a secret known to few modem fae, and to employ 
it the changeling must have at least three levels of the Gremayre Ability, 
though at Storyteller discretion this requirement can be altered or waived for 
the sake of drama (a troll protecting her charge, an impassioned sidhe dueling, 
etc.). Still, those few Kithain aware of the secret employ it to great effective- 
ness; many mundanes and Prodigals have discovered too late the true 
potential of the chimerical rapier of a seemingly “unarmed” faerie oppo- 
nent.. . . 
The CDiscs 
The Mists is the name changelings have for the mystic barrier that 
separates the fae world from the mundane. The Mists cloud the minds of 
mortals so that they do not remember their encounters with Glamour and 
thingsfaerie. There are both good and bad sides to this; achangeling at a block 
party who uses Wayfare to fly to the top of his roof won’t have to explain this 
talent to his neighbors later. On the down side, he wouldn’t be able to show 
the wonders of the Dreaming to a group of children and have them remember 
what they’d seen for very long, unless he somehow enchanted the children 
more permanently or brought them into a freehold. Similarly, while the Mists 
keep hunters from discovering the power of Glamour, this mystical shroud 
does cloud a Kithain’s own memory when she is injured or killed chimerically. 
Thus, the Mists make it even more difficult for a changeling to maintain her 
dual existence. A side effect of Banality, the Mists exemplify the force of 
human rationality. 


Many childlings and wilders wonder why, once they’ve discovered their 
fae natures, they can’t simply disavow the mortal world entirely and exist 
purely in the world of the Dreaming. After all, abandoning the “real” world 
would seem to be the perfect way to counteract the power of Banality. Such 
logic often leads a young changeling to scorn and disparage her mortal shell, 
instead of realizing the protection it offers. For, as all grumps know, even as 
the Banality of the mortal world threatens to squelch the fae soul, so too does 
too much Glamour threaten to sweep one’s mind away. Like it or not, 
changelings are creatures born of two worlds, and abandoning one entirely 
invites doom from the other. Changelings who spend too much time around 
the Banality of the mortal world eventually Forget, or are even permanently 
Undone; Kithain who embrace the Dreaming without minding enough of 
their mortal ties invite a soul-twisting madness known as Bedlam. 
Bedlam progresses in three distinct stages, called thresholds, and its 
advance is under the strict control of the Storyteller. In some cases it takes 
years for a changeling to move from one threshold to another, but sometimes 
a Kithain can rocket through them in a matter of days, or even hours. There 
are warning signs, however. The following are not strict requirements for 
entering Bedlam, but if a character exhibits three or more of these symptoms, 
he might be a candidate for Bedlam. 
First Threshold 
The first threshold is mainly perception-based; a character begins having 
trouble distinguishing between mundane and chimerical things, and sees 
chimera which aren’t really there. First-threshold faults should be annoying 
but bearable. Some examples of first-threshold Bedlam include: shifts in the 
color spectrum, hearing disembodied whispers of madness or prophecy, 
inexplicable feelings of fear, the distortion of shadows into monstrous shapes 
or bright lights that flash in and out of existence without warning. A 
Storyteller might choose to add more such flaws onto a character, or simply 
drop him to the next threshold. 


Second Threshold 
Bedlam’s second threshold gets much more serious, as chimerical reality 
seems to become mundane reality to the unfortunate changeling. A player 
whose character is so affected should be pulled aside and have her reality 
explained to her; she no longer heeds any but the most obvious dangers of the 
mundane world, and is completely oblivious to any other goings on in regular 
reality. The character simply ceases to interact with anyone or anything not 
in her little corner of reality. Furthermore, she may suffer additional afflic- 
tions. Some examples are: 
Don Quixote Syndrome, when the character believes everything to be 
from an ancient or mythical time; 
Delusions of Grandeur, in which the character believes she is superior 
to everyone around her, regardless of her actual power and station; 
Social Darwinism, under which the character sees everyone as predator 
or prey, and her own lot to be that of a predator of great skill and guile; 
The Walls Have Ears, in which the changeling believes absolutely 
everything to be alive and sentient. 
Since the next threshold of Bedlam is nearly impossible to cure, Story- 
tellers should give characters at this stage a chance to heal, and should make 
sure this madness fits the character’s personal story. Of course, if the player of 
the mad character is having fun, and the character i s  reveling in his insanity 
by staying up all night to party with the local horned chimerical teddy bears, 
the Storyteller can go ahead and drop the character to the final threshold. 


At this point, the character is almost completely swallowed by his 
madness. What’s worse, third-threshold Bedlam is highly contagious, and 
those who associate too often with such a character may develop first- 
threshold symptoms themselves; only the devoted or the foolhardy try to treat 
such changelings. Often, the only recourse is to destroy the poor unfortunates, 
albeit with great remorse. 
While they retain all the previous traits of their madness, characters in 
third- threshold Bedlam gain even more inhuman and insidious quirks, which 
include such taints as: a berserker response, when the character attacks all 
around her with whatever is at hand; an autistic complex, when the character 
withdraws completely inward, not recognizing the outside world at all; feral 
cunning, wherein the character reverts to a cunning, predatory animal 
seeking only to stalk and kill; or perversity, as the character descends into the 
depths of her soul and performs unspeakable acts. What’s even more terrible 
is the fact that many changelings this far gone birth nightmare nervosa 
chimera, which attempt to protect the character and keep others from 
“harming” her. If left untreated, the character eventually disappears from 
reality one night while Dreaming, and the player must make a new character. 
(the Storyteller might require this step earlier if the Bedlamite has grown too 
disruptive to the game). Perhaps worst of all, though, are the spells of lucidity 
a character in this stage goes through, during which time he seems perfectly 
normal and unaware of his plight. 
TRearing Bedlam 
First-threshold Bedlam is easily curable and recoverable if the changeling 
realizes what’s going on and takes the appropriate steps. Ironically, a short 
time spent in the mundane world, away from court and cantrips, usually cures 
first-threshold Bedlam, acting as a splash of cold water on the overexuberant 
fae soul. However, most Glamour-bent changelings are unwilling to accept 
such a, well, banal solution so quickly, and stubbornly hold onto their fae 
selves, even if they realize what is happening. Denial almost always quickly 
leads to a more rapid deterioration. 
The second threshold is a bit more different, and requires a bit of magical 
healing (with the Primal Art) along with the same Banality therapy as the first 
threshold. By the time a changeling reaches the second threshold, her 
madness has progressed to her fae soul, and both mortal mind and fae spirit 
must be healed for the character to completely recover. 
Third-threshold Bedlam is nearly impossible to cure; the only known 
method is to drink from the Cup of Dreams, an ancient and powerful faerie 
treasure said to have been lost long ago to the Dreaming. Some also whisper 
that dragons know the secret of curing third-threshold Bedlam, but there are 
precious few wyrrns friendly enough to approach in this manner, and even 
fewer Kithain with the courage to try. No Banality cure or Primal healing has 
Third Threshold 
_ _ _ _ _ - _ _ - _ - - _ - - -  
~ 


unfortunates are astounded at their resistance to medication and normal 
therapeutic techniques. 
At times, a changeling may want to bring others into her fantastic world, 
a process known as enchantment. A Kithain’s motives for this can vary from 
desiring to show a friend the true nature of one’s fae life to terrorizing hapless 
mortals, but once the target has been enchanted, he has become a part of the 
fae world whether he likes it or not. 
The system for enchantment (creating tokens, duration of enchantment, 
etc.) is covered under the Glamour section; this section explains exactly what 
enchantment is, how long it lasts, and what happens afterward. For the 
purposes of ease and clarity (although they can be enchanted only at the 
Storyteller’s discretion), consider Prodigals included as well whenever the 
text refers to unenchanted mortals. 
Once a changeling has managed to enchant a mortal, that individual is 
brought fully into the Dreaming. She can perceive and interact with chimera 
and chimerical items, and see changelings’ faerie aspects. Furthermore, all 
Wyrd Birthrights and Frailties are effective/in effect around an enchanted 


gains the normal number of chimerical Health Levels to resist such damage, 
however, and may even create voile, or chimerical clothing, for herself. 
However, if an enchanted mortal is chimerically “slain,” the enchantment 
immediately fades as she falls unconscious and the Mists take over (see the 
Mists chart for how long she remains unconscious). 
Enchanted mortals cannot cast cantrips; their Glamour is borrowed, and 
they have none of their own. In addition, enchanted mortalsmay not actively 
use their Banality to fight cantrips - 
they have no choice but to believe now! 
The only exception to those rules are kinain, or faerie kinfolk, who can 
sometimes learn a few Arts and Realms from a changeling mentor, and who 
know enough about Banality to use it in their own defense if need be. 
Enchantment lasts for a base time of one day per Glamour Trait invested 
in the token created to enchant the mundane, or the number of Glamour 
Traits spent after the challenge to forcibly enchant a mortal. However, if the 
mortal is kept in a freehold, the time limit on the enchantment is suspended 
for as long as she is kept there; such is the origin of “Rip Van Winkle” legends 
of mortals who seem to have passed a summer afternoon in a faerie glen and 
return to find decades missing. Unfortunately, Bedlam is even more of a threat 
to mortals than to the fae, so changelings are careful not to let their retainers 
remain enchanted and in a freehold for too long at a stretch. Unless carefully 
guided through the experience by a Kithain, most humans will think of 
enchantment as some kind of hallucinogenic effect or strange drug. Even 
creative and imaginative folk have no idea what really lies in the chimerical 
world, and the “truth” of the matter can be quite a shock. 
Note: Enchanted Prodigals can be exceptions to the rules, and the 
duration and effectiveness of the enchantment is dependent upon the amount 
of Banality a given Prodigal possesses (see the normal Banality ratings chart 
for examples) and whatever other factors the Storyteller deems appropriate. 
Once the duration of the enchantment has passed, the mortal goes uncon- 
scious and unresponsive for a time equal to the duration dictated by her 
Banality. A supernatural creature can resist falling into this comatose state by 
spending a Willpower Trait, although this tactic is not effective if he’s been 
chimerically “killed,” and in any case his memory of the fae realm still 
deteriorates as his Banality level dictates. At the Storyteller’s discretion, some 
powerful intervention, supernatural or otherwise, might be able to wake the 
comatose character, but this is extremely rare. 
When re-enchanted, characters who have forgotten previous encounters 
with the fae, including changelings who have temporarily fallen to the 
Forgetting, immediately regain all memories of their previous fae experiences. 
Otherwise, a character who is repeatedly enchanted is treated exactly as a 
normal target enchantment, down to the effects of the Mists and the duration 
of the enchantment. 
mortal, and chimera can even damage or chimerically “klll” her. The mortal 


While changelings can be as capricious as the Glamour which flows 
through them, there are occasions where a person or situation demands some 
kind of great commitment from a Kithain, and the fae can be frightfully 
serious about such business. From this state of affairs the practice of swearing 
of oaths arose, wherein two parties enter into a verbal contract concerning 
one issue or another through the swearing of specific and demanding terms to 
the other party. The power of Glamour itself enforces the tenets of an oath 
even if a changeling’s honor doesn’t, and those who break their word of honor 
find themselves suffering dire consequences. Even Unseelie abide by their 
oaths if possible, although they are much more selective than Seelie in their 
oathtaking, and try to avoid swearing any oaths that don’t directly serve their 
own interests. 
Oaths can last for a variable amount of time. and grant varying rewards 
or punishments to those who swear by them, but oaths are one thing even the 
trickiest pooka or most savage redcap takes seriously. Particularly foul or 
repeated oathbreakers are chimerically marked, and henceforth shunned and 
reviled by all Kithain society. 
Some of the most common oaths and their wordings are included here, 
but this list and even the wordings of these oaths are by no means final, as there 
exist as many oaths and variations on oaths as can possibly be dreamed. Oaths 
are intended to add to the pageantry and mythic quality of The Shining Host. 
Players who try to tweak their characters into war machines by selecting oaths 
solely for their benefits should be brought strongly in line, lest the balance and 
mystique of the oath system be lost for everyone. Similarly, the players should 
never be forced into having their characters swear oaths they themselves do 
not fully understand. After all, an oath taken under duress is not binding, and 
being manipulated by a mysterious, omnipotent “Storyteller” certainly counts 
as duress. 
The Oath of Clasped Hands 
Blood for blood, bone fur bone, life for life, until only we stride the earth. My 
life is in your h a d ,  my blood is in your veins. Hold me well and I will lend you my 
strength, break your bond and may we both perish. Friendship I swear to you, an 
oath of clasped hands and shared hearts. 
This oath is one of true friendship, a bond as strong as that one might feel 
for a lover, and is never sworn lightly. It is the cornerstone of any oathcircle 
and many motleys and households. Those who swear it gain a permanent 
Willpower Trait, but lose two if it is ever broken. Swearing to a group gives 
one Willpower Trait total, not one per member. (Glamour knows when you 
try to cheat on this provision!) 


I swear fealty to you, lady/lord. Your command is my desire, and your request 
my desire. May my servicealwaysplease, andmay my sightgrow darkifitdoesnot. 
As the tides to the moon, my will to yours, my liege. 
This oath is commonly sworn at Sainings, knightings and investitures. 
Swearing this oath costs the speaker one temporary Willpower Trait, but all 
attempts to mentally control or dominate the speaker from now on are at a 
two-Trait penalty. Breaking this oath costs two permanent Willpower Traits, 
and especially heinous betrayals may strike the betrayer blind for a year and 
a day. 
The Oath of Escheat 
I take you as my vassal. You are of my house, even as the very stones. I pledge 
to hold you, guard you, and to keep you. I pledge to honor your service as it deserves, 
and to reward loyalty in kind. As the moon to the seas below, my will to yours, I 
pledge the Escheat to you. 
With this oath, a noble formally accepts another fae as her vassal. This 
oath is commonly spoken in conjunction with the Oath of Fealty, but not 
always. When the oath's words are spoken, the speaker loses a temporary 
Glamour Trait, and achimerical gold coin, stamped with her likeness, appears 
in her hand. The oath is not actually binding until the oathmaker offers, and 
the proposed vassal accepts, this token. Failure to abide by the terms of this 
oath indicates a fall from true fae honor, and gives the oathbreaker a 
permanent Banality Trait. However, any fae bound by (and holding to) the 
terms of this oath, even if only to one vassal, regains a temporary Willpower 
Trait at the end of every week. 
The Oath of the Accepted Burden 
Lay down your burden, that I might take it up. The road is long, and I swear 
Ishallbearitfor you, untilallroads end. IshallLname theactual taskherel, elsemay 
the road cease to b y  beneath my feet. 
Superficially similar to a geas, this oath is a promise to perform a certain 
deed. The nature of the deed itself is irrelevant, and can be anything from a 
kiss to retrieving the still-beating heart of a foe. This oath is always made to 
another, and is made to verify that a task he desires will be performed. When 
these words are spoken, a temporary Willpower Trait is regained by both the 
oathmaker and the one to whom the promise is made. Casual oathtakers 
beware, though- 
if the oath is not kept, each loses two temporary Willpower 
Traits. 
The Oath of Adoption 
As the sea to the river, as the tree to the seed, as the mountain to the stone, so 
do I now recognize you to me. From this day forward, you are of my blood, of my 
family, and of my hold. I swear to offer you my wisdom, my love and my regard, 
for you will carry my name and my memory when I am no more. Should I abandon 
you, I abandon myself. It fills my heart to call you sonldaughter. 


mountain, sodo lnow recognize myselfin you. From this day forward, I am ofyour 
blood, your family, and your hold. I swear to offer my respect, my devotion and my 
love, for you offer me a home where I have none. Should I abandon you, I consign 
myself to loneliness. It fills my heart to call you mothedfather. 
This oath, once known only to the trolls, is gaining popularity as many 
changelings, especially runaway childlings and wilders, seek a sense of family 
in the enchanted world, and grumps look to the young to carry on their 
heritage. This oath ranks next to the Oath of the Truehearts and the Oath of 
another, for the two oathmakers are truly considered parent and child from 
the swearing of the oath onward. There are no special benefits or penalties 
derived from swearing this oath, outside of those qualities one normally 
receives from a family, which makes this oath possibly greater than any other 
oath imaginable. Those who break this oath are considered among the most 
vile beings in the world, and they are scorned and shunned without mercy or 
relent. 
I 
Clasped Hands as the deepest personal bond a changeling can have for 
The Oath of Guardianship 
As the sun guards the earth by day, as the stars by night, so shall I serve thee. 
Thisismy duty-1 
shallnotabandon[objectofoathl tillldurationofoathl, elsemay 
the stars close their eyes and sleep. 
This is a fearful oath, and those who fail to uphold it are cursed never to 
spend two nights in the same bed until a century has passed. The Oath of 
Guardianship binds the oathmaker to protect a single object, place, or 
individual from any and all harm, to the point of ultimate self-sacrifice. Those 
who swear this oath gain an extra temporary Willpower Trait, which can only 
be spent while defending the subject of the oath, but there is no other cost to 
make the Oath of Guardianship other than that extracted by its keeping. 
The Oath of Truehearts 
I give agift ofmyselfto thee. Take itfreely; freely it is offered, andforever thou 
hast me in thy keeping. I swear love unto you and pledge you my troth. May those 
who watch over love watch over this oath and those who keep it, and may we never 
find fault in their eyes. 
This oath needs no explanation. It is spoken in unison by the two (or 
more) lovers it binds, and it takes a Trait of temporary Glamour from each to 
craft a chimerical songbird visible only to the lovers. The instant the oath is 
broken, the bird ceases to sing, perching silently on the shoulder of the 
oathbreaker, and becomes visible to all as the sign of betrayal. In addition, 
both betrayer and betrayed gain a permanent Banality Trait as a result of this 
cowardly action. On the other hand, an Epiphany resulting from Rapture the 
lovers share bestow an additional Glamour Trait. The songbird cannot be 
affected by any known means of tampering. 


I swear that I shall [nature ofquest undertaken], or lose my honor, that I shall 
[nature of quest] or lay down my sword, that I shall [nature of quest] or Dream no 
more. You and the sky my witnesses, so mote it be. 
The Oath of the Long Road is the most potent of the oaths known to most 
fae, and it is usually sanctified by some small but significant personal sacrifice 
on the part of the oathmaker and any witnesses present. It is always spoken 
in front of one, or preferably three, witnesses. The oathmaker receives a free 
permanent Willpower and Glamour Trait, but the consequences of failure are 
most dire. Simple failure of the quest causes the loss of three Willpower and 
Glamour Traits, one of each permanently. Abandoning the quest altogether 
strips the oathbreaker of all temporary Willpower and Glamour Traits and a 
permanent Willpower Trait, and gives the oathbreaker two permanent 
Banality Traits. 
The Oath of Crossed Blades 
Where two stand, there will be one. I swear enmity unto thee until the setting 
of the Zast sun. May my heart cease to beat and my hand lose its strength should ever 
I show favor to thee, as the bones of the earth are my witness. 
This oath is generally only sworn by trolls and sidhe, as the other fae 
consider announcing such black feelings counterproductive to their inten- 
tions. This oath remains a way to lay everything out on the table in the 
sometimes confusing world of fae politics. In addition, there is just something 
inherently stylish to swearing eternal hatred, and obviously (though not 
always) this oath can be sworn by two fae in conjunction. Those who do swear 
the Oath of Crossed Blades trade a temporary Willpower Trait for a temporary 
Glamour Trait, and are one Trait up on all challenges to oppose their hated 
foe directly. (Of course, if the oath is sworn together, this advantage is 
somewhat nullified.) Should the oath be broken, a permanent Willpower 
Trait is lost and a pair of matching scars, akin to those left by a rapier’s point, 
appear on the face of the oathbreaker, which cannot be healed by any kind 
of Glamour. 
The Oath of the Undoing 
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. No slight shall go unnoticed, no wound 
unavenged. I shall hunt my undying enemy, [name of enemy], to the four c m r s  
of the Earth, and I shall not rest until either I or my enemy is fully Undone. I shall 
do everything in my power to reduce my enemy to nothing and to less than nothing, 
with a keen cold iron blade. 
Though superficially similar to the Oath of Crossed Blades, this foul and 
forbidden oath is much more serious than that, for while the Oath of Crossed 
Blades calls merely for bitter rivalry, this oath demands the final death of 
another fae. The oath is, in fact, one of the easiest ways Banality seduces fae 
into becoming Dauntain, the hated hunters of all things faerie, and many a 
tragic tale is told of those who swore this oath in the heat of passion and 


end but too honor-bound to turn from the path they had chosen. Fortunately, 
this oath is not widely known, though it sometimes seems to come - 
unlearned and unbidden - 
to the lips of many enraged wilders. 
A changeling attempting to swear this oath must immediately enter a 
Static Challenge of his Glamour against his Banality; success means he feels 
the dread consequences of this oath and may break it off if he wishes. Failure, 
or a willful ignorance of the warning signs, means the changeling completes 
the oath, and immediately gains a permanent Trait of Banality as a result. If 
the oath is broken, a permanent Willpower Trait is lost; if it is fulfilled, 
another permanent Banality Trait is gained. This is indeed a terrible oath, and 
most likely not one a player will ever utter, unless he deliberately chooses the 
dark fate of the Dauntain for his character. 
epiphany 
Every changeling needs Glamour to live, at least if he wishes to keep his 
fae soul from withering. From learned eshu to ravenous redcaps, all Kithain 
spend their lives seeking out Glamour in all its forms, teasing or taking it out 
as they choose. Moments when a changeling gains a true appreciation of a 
particular kind of creativity, and thus gains Glamour from it, are called 
Epiphanies. Such revelations come in several distinct varieties, from benign 
Reverie to vicious Ravaging to transcendent Rapture. Not only are these 
moments addictive in and of themselves, but the surge of Glamour that 
accompanies them often leads a Kithain to a lifetime of seeking out and 
patronizing various artists, waiting for that moment of transcendent creation. 
Kithain need mortals the dreams they make - 
changelings are composed of 
that very essence. Not every mortal has this capability, though, to produce 
Glamour in this fashion, and perhaps one in every thousand humans has 
enough of it to be called a Dreamer. 
ReveRie 
Most changelings regain their Glamour through the process of inspiring 
mortal artists to greater and greater masterpieces, and then enjoying the 
Glamour this process slowly creates; “farming” Glamour in this fashion is 
known as Reverie. Though it may take time, Reverie harms neither the 
changeling or the artist, and ensures that the artist retains her creativity 
indefinitely. While gaining Glamour through the Dreamers Background is 
usually considered to be Reverie, and thus safe for both parties, it is possible 
to gain additional Glamour Traits by acting as a mortal’s muse, but the process 
is a bit more lengthy. 
System: The changeling must approach the Storyteller and announce 
that he is considering acting as a particular artist’s muse. If the Storyteller 
deems the patronage appropriate, the player must win a Social Challenge 


is successful, the player must announce the time period over which he wishes 
to patronize the mortal (ideally, this is an extended process), and the number 
of Glamour Traits he would like to gain from the procedure. 
Basing the difficulty on those considerations, the Storyteller issues a 
Static Mental Challenge. If the changeling is successful, he gains as many 
temporary Glamour Traits as there were levels of difficulty (not to exceed his 
permanent total). A failure in either challenge means that the artist is put off 
and/or blocked by the Kithain’s attentions, and can’t provide Glamour. 
Note that while this procedure would seem to take a long time (and 
should), it can be the most lucrative Epiphany of all. Furthermore, once a 
relationship is established, there is no limit as to how long a changeling may 
continue to gain Glamour from that artist (on a fairly regular schedule, no 
less). 
musing ThResholds 
Certain Seelie fae demonstrate a facility for specific types of inspiration, 
and their attempts to create Reverie in these situations are often especially 
fruitful. A character may never have more than one Threshold, but those who 
begin play without one may gain one with practice, and those who start with 
a threshold can change it as their character demands. A Kithain need not be 
Seelie to have a Musing Threshold (nor Unseelie to have a Ravaging 
threshold), but things tend to fall along those Court lines. (Clever change- 
lings will note that the Musing and Ravaging thresholds directly oppose each 
other; by no coincidence, those who indulge in opposite thresholds often find 
themselves at each other’s throats. This is one of the subtler ways in which 
parties of the two Courts still war, although it is also one of the ones with the 
longest-running affects on the mortal world.) 
Note: If there is any doubt on whether a Musing or Ravaging Threshold 
applies, the Storyteller has the final say. Like Reverie, Musing Thresholds can 
develop into long-term relationships, providing an especially lucrative source 
of Glamour for a patient and gentle changeling. 
System: Any time the changeling engages in a Reverie in accordance 
with her Musing Threshold, she gains one extra Glamour Trait if the 
challenge is successful, or (at Narrator discretion) two Glamour Traits if the 
scene is played out well and for the full beautiful effect. 


Perhaps rarest of all forms of changeling inspiration, Rapture is that 
wonderful state in which the changeling gives herself Glamour through the 
creativity of her own thoughts. Such a feat requires a Zenlike calm and 
between a changeling’s fae and human halves, but the reward - 
moments of 
pure and total ecstasy as the direct link to the Dreaming makes whole the 
changeling’s fragmented soul and infuses it with Glamour - 
is incalculable. 
Most changelings, like most mortals, are incapable of transcending mere 
patronage to reach the direct link between art and artist, but it is a goal to 
which many Kithain rightly aspire. 
System: Even more so than Reverie, there is no set “system” for playing 
out Rapture, as it must be the ultimate culmination of a long and dedicated 
process of artistic discovery, but if one needs rules, here they are: When the 
Storyteller feels that a changeling has spent enough long, trying, soul- 
searching hours working on improving and changing her art (a long, long, long 
process), she may allow the character to make a Static Challenge using the 
Trait category associated with her preferred art form, with a difficulty based 
on how much Glamour is to be gained and the complexity of the art to gain 
it from. If successful, the changeling experiences Rapture and gains the 
amount of Glamour specified in the Static Challenge; if not, the changeling 
must once again re-work her art and begin the process anew. The Storyteller 
is encouraged to grant bonuses to players who actually choose a medium and 
try to create what their character is working on (at least in their heads), and 
who constantly improve and detail the piece. Yes, that’s difficult, but Rapture 
is a glimpse at the perfect synthesis of the fae soul and the mortal mind- 
that 
doesn’t come easily. Some changelings spend lifetimes trying but failing to 
reconcile the two. 


It is a tragically simple matter to rip Glamour from a mortal or work of art, 
and although the resulting Epiphany is tainted by the psychic anguish of the 
victim, it is quick and in its own way, perfectly satisfying. However, individual 
mortals don’t have an infinite supply of Glamour and must take time to 
replenish their pools; too much Ravaging can dry up the well once and for all. 
Changelings who Ravage run the risk of gaining Banality while doing so, 
for Ravaging actually involves making use of one’s own Banality. Most Seelie 
consider this practice abhorrent. On the other hand, Unseelie fae tend to 
think there’ll always be more Dreamers, so what’s the worry? Some particu- 
larly energetic Unseelie tend to have raised Ravaging to such an art form they 
develop “Ravaging Thresholds” (explained below), but even the most upright 
Seelie sometimes resorts to Ravaging if he needs “quick Glamour” from 
someone he knows (or has a lust for a certain mortal’s dreams). Victims of a 
Ravaging feel no physical pain, “merely” the weight of Banality growing on 
them, and they are often terrified and exhausted by the entire experience. 
System: A Ravager must know her victim fairly well before she can 
attempt to rip away his dreams, a result typically gained through roleplaying. 
Once a player feels she has learned enough about a target to Ravage him, she 
must go to the Storyteller, who will question her to see if she knows the other 
character well enough to perform a Ravaging. If the Storyteller believes the 
character does, the player must first make physical contact with the target (a 
Physical Challenge if the target resists). She then makes a Static Challenge 
against the number of Glamour Traits she wishes to gain by Ravaging, using 
her own permanent Banality rating as her bid. If she succeeds, she gain the 
Glamour; if she fail, she gains a permanent Trait of Banality (there are a lot 
of risks involved). Note: Retesting the Ravaging Challenge is possible for 
either party only with the expenditure of one Willpower Trait per retest. 
Ravaging Thresholds: Certain Unseelie, particularly those of the Shadow 
Court, develop one particular method of Ravaging to such a fine degree they 
are able to gain extra Glamour Traits each time they perform this particular 
type of Ravaging upon a target. As with the Musing Thresholds, a character 
may never have more than one of these thresholds, although those who begin 
play without one may gain one due to roleplaying, and those who start with 
one can switch along with a shift in their dark pleasures. Unlike Musing 
Thresholds, Ravaging Thresholds often are as short-lived with a particular 
target as the regular means of Ravaging. 
System: Any time the changeling Ravages in accordance with his 
Threshold, he gains one extra Glamour Trait if the challenge is successful. 
Narrators can award an extra Glamour Trait if the Ravaging is roleplayed 
particularly well. 


Rhapsody 
Once thought to be known only to the members of the forbidden 
Unseelie House Leanhaun (who must use it in order to survive), this sinister 
and twisted form of Epiphany has slowly crept into Kithain society in the 
modern age. Expressly forbidden by all faerie laws, Rhapsody is the process of 
infusing a mortal’s soul with Glamour directly from the Dreaming without 
passing it through an intermediary such as art or changeling inspiration. Such 
a raw dose of power makes the mortal devote his whole heart and soul to his 
artwork, and the potent infusion of Glamour drives the victims of Rhapsody 
to create masterpieces of craftsmanship and beauty. The mortal whose life is 
so touched burns with enhanced creativity, like a flare in the middle of a dark 
night. Unfortunately, like a flare, the mortal’s brilliance sputters to nothing 
far too quickly. Even if death doesn’t follow the passing of the Glamour from 
Rhapsody, a permanent loss of creativity (not to mention lengthy bouts 
depression and rage) does. 
In the meantime, the fae indulging in the Rhapsody drink in the 
supremely potent dreams of the mortal, often becoming the lovers of the 
mortals they are touching in this manner so as to be close to the source. Some 
Rhapsodizers even become vaguely concerned with the mortal’s welfare, if for 
no other reason than the longer they can maintain such a link the longer they 
can revel in the Glamour. Even the best-intentioned user of Rhapsody knows 
what inevitably comes of his touch, though, and there is no escape from the 
price that must be paid. 


in physical contact to Rhapsodize, merely close enough to enjoy, experience 
and absorb her target’s artwork. (This doesn’t stop many users of Rhapsody 
from getting physically close anyway, though.) She must also put Glamour 
Traits into the target at least once a week while the target is in the throes of 
the creative process. At the end of each week, the artist makes a Static 
Challenge related to his artwork; if he fails, the Glamour Traits added that 
week are effectively lost, and the mortal gains a permanent Banality Trait. If 
he succeeds, the Traits are added to the total number of Glamour Traits spent 
in that fashion. When the mortal completes the work, he makes a Static 
Challenge for his art; the number of Traits at risk is added to the Glamour 
Trait total. If the is successful, all the Glamour Traits invested in the 
composition are distributed to the user of Rhapsody, along with a number of 
additional Traits equal to those risked in the final Static Challenge. Unseelie 
receive two Traits of Glamour for every one they earn at this stage - 
sometimes it’s good to be bad. The mortal, on the other hand, gains a 
permanent Banality Trait for every two regular Glamour Traits the Rhapsodizer 
gains. 
Note: Storytellers must always keep careful track ofhow the Rhapsodized 
mortal is faring, alert any particularly watchful changelings or other art 
sensitive types in the area to the presence of a seemingly unnaturally powerful 
Dreamer. Narrators should always make sure they inflict the eventual punish- 
ment on any victim of Rhapsody at some point, or the tragedy of Rhapsody 
is lost. The effects can be fast or slow, depending on the individual mortal and 
how much the Rhapsodizer pushes him, but eventually the bill has to come 
due. Otherwise, there’s no reason for everyone not to Rhapsodize, and game 
balance goes out the window. 
There is no known way to cure or prevent damage to a mortal caused by 
Rhapsody; if the mortal survives his abuse at changeling hands (and remem- 
ber, artists in the throes over overwhelming bursts of creativity have been 
known to ignore such necessities as food, sleep and medical attention), the 
abuser might very well earn a powerfully angry and bitterly disillusioned 
enemy. 


Fair Escape is a simple rule that allows players to escape from potentially 
deadly situations without actually vaulting over tables or charging headlong 
out of a room, possibly causing harm to themselves or others. This rule also 
allows players to avoid combat without going through cumbersome chal- 
lenges to see if they can “get away.” 
When you use this rule, you can call “Fair Escape” anytime you see 
another player approaching with whom you do not wish to interact. Once you 
call “Fair Escape,” you may leave the area without being pursued. There are 
several guidelines which must be followed when using this rule, however: 
You may not use the Fair Escape rule if the person approaching is nearby 
(within conversational distance). In such cases, you must initiate a challenge 
in order to flee. Use common sense in places where there is a great deal of noise 
and conversational distance is reduced to a minimum (e.g., a crowded 
nightclub). 
Situations which involve an ambush (all exits are blocked or the target 
is surrounded) can negate the use of Fair Escape. Again, use common sense. 
A character with Veiled Eyes may employ Fair Escape at any time before 
a challenge has been initiated, unless someone with some form of Heightened 
Senses counters him. 
These guidelines are intended to quicken play, not to obstruct it. Always 
try to use common sense when employing Fair Escape. 


This chapter is for Storytellers and, to a lesser extent, Narrators. 
Storytelling The Shining Host is very different from Storytelling Change- 
ling: The Dreaming, or even any other Mind’s Eye Theatre game. The 
Shining Host involves running a game displaced in time and possibly space 
as well, meaning that not only the players, but the world of the game will 
demand constant attention. Both the enchanted and the mortal societies of 
your game need to be developed, and costuming and setting the scene can take 
creativity, effort and time. Running a live roleplaying game, especially this 
one, is not for the lazy. With proper preparation, however, The Shining Host 
allows you to tell epic stories of high dark fantasy, mythic conflict, courtly 
intrigue and anything else you can imagine. In the end, your effort is what 
creates something thrilling. 
c 
h Ron i cl es 
If characters are the lifeblood of Mind’s Eye Theatre, then the chronicle 
is the body those characters sustain. Although The Shining Host can be used 
and enjoyed as a series of loosely connected stories, such games often lack a 
sense of continuity and offer little opportunity for character development. 
Furthermore, most characters grow around long-term goals (power, prestige, 
status, revenge, knowledge - 
to name just a few); one story is rarely enough 
to resolve anything satisfactorily. In a chronicle - 
an ongoing series of stories 
- 
characters not only reside in a familiar environment, but also one that 


both you and your Narrators. 
Seccing che %age 
The first element to consider in chronicle construction is the atmosphere 
you desire. The two aspects of atmosphere are mood and theme. Each is a 
fundamental ingredient in the alchemy of a chronicle. 
Mood is the underlying emotional sentiment of a chronicle. It sustains 
and flows through everything you do, unobtrusive yet omnipresent. While the 
mood of a chronicle is intangible, your choice of mood can be one of the most 
important ones you make as regards plot, character and theme. After all, if 
you’re going for a mood of court elegance, a hack-n-slash plot (and a brigade 
of drooling redcaps to match) won’t make much sense. 
Themes are central ideas of a chronicle, ones that help define the shape 
of the action. They can be as visceral as the struggle for freedom or as 
intellectual as the age-old questions of good and evil. Themes can emerge as 
seemingly inconsequential encounters or as the major focus of a chronicle. 
Avoid overemphasizing theme, however. Overemphasis makes related events 
expected and predictable rather than haunting and prophetic. 
The setting is the stage upon which the drama of a chronicle is played. 
Setting is composed of environment and locale. Environment describes the 
overall scheme of the world. The environment of The Shining Host involves 
the many levels of the enchanted existence: conflicts between and within 
kith and Courts, noble feuds, the struggles of the youth to stay young, the 
search for true Glamour, the menace of Dauntain, forbidden knowledge, 
ancient vendettas and much, much more. A myriad of potential alternatives 
are available. It’s your reality - 
do with it what you will. 
Locale, or the physical place where you choose to set your chronicle, is 
the next step toward chronicle creation. Obviously, your setting must have 
some basis in the real world as well as the enchanted, and therefore it is often 
easiest to take a setting you have some knowledge of, if possible. Setting your 
game at Stonehenge when you’ve never even cracked a travel guide to 
England simply makes no sense. Creating a detailed setting takes a great deal 
of imagination, but the more work spent in developing a locale, the richer the 
chronicle will be for your efforts. 
@ 


Most chronicles are focused around a single setting or a town, even if the 
characters might travel widely from it as time goes on. This place is the locus 
of your chronicle. You need topresent your setting in a realistic and consistent 
manner so that players believe in it. The setting must live and breathe for 
players and, until it does, there’s no real way for characters to connect to the 
chronicle. The setting is where your stories take place, and the more 
interesting and exotic it seems, the more your stories come to life. With each 
story you run, define the setting a little more, but don’t give away everything 
at once. If you make the setting interesting enough, the players will want to 
explore it on their own, and they might even start contributing details. As 
long as players’ additions don’t conflict with what you intended, let them. 
Allowing player contributions is often a good way of determining what the 
players like to see in a chronicle. 
As the chronicle progresses, add details of geography, custom and plot. 
Build the setting bit by bit at whatever pace you choose - 
it’s better to have 
a small, well-developed starting point than a huge, ambiguous location. The 
mortal half of the setting is fairly easy to establish. Learn the history of a place 
first and what types of mortals would be there. However, remember that your 
setting is fictional, and that you can do anything you want with it. Feel free 
to change a few details here and there to suit the mood of your game. On the 
other hand, don’t spring massive changes on your players out of the blue (“Oh, 
yeah, didn’t I tell you guys there was a massive Gothic cathedral where the 
mall used to be?”), or the players will feel as if they’ve been bullied. 
Only after you have finished with the mortal aspects of your setting 
should you want to consider the enchanted half of the equation. The history 
and atmosphere of your locale should help, determining what types of 
changelings would live there, and of what kith, Courts, houses and seemings 
they might be. Still, you still need to be the one to decide where the local 
freeholds are, what other sites of mystic power might be nearby (Garou caerns, 
mage chantries, wraith haunts, etc.), and where the local Dauntain and other 
Autumn People reside. You should also decide how the local chimerical 
landscape differs from the mortal world - 
if you want a magic forest to stand 
where the subdevelopment the characters live in is located, you should make 
this clear to the players before gameplay starts. 
Last but not least, you should make sure the design of the setting meshes 
well with the motif of your overall chronicle. If the chronicle is going to be 
about corruption, the setting ought to be corrupt as well, both in its mortal and 
Kithain aspects. 
Casting the PaRts 
Once you know what is in your setting, it’s time to think about who is in 
it. You should be concerned with both mortals and Kithain; neither side is 


who rules. Who are the local nobles? Their advisors? Whom does the nobles’ 
lord serve? Are the commoners happy or rebellious? Who are the local 
Autumn People? Who are the Dreamers? You should think about whether 
Dauntain or other enemies of the local changelings have infiltrated the 
enchanted society. On the mortal side, consider which mortals are most likely 
to fight against the Kithain. If there is another supernatural presence in your 
setting, you will want to detail that as well. The local vampire, werewolf, 
wraith and mage populations, and their relations to the changelings, are all 
important things to have mapped out in advance. 
lnmigue 
Intrigue is a vital ingredient of your chronicle. For people to play out 
intrigue, they need to be drawn into it - 
there has to be a tangible reward for 
all the scheming. Power is often an effective lure, but if power is a reward it 
needs to be immediate and real, visible and obtainable. Most importantly, it 
needs to be given out often enough to inspire characters to pursue it, but not 
so often that opportunities are passed on because they’re too plentiful, or that 
the power level of the game rises to unmanageable levels. 
Ambiizion 
Many characters eventually want to assume positions of power in the 
setting. In some games, this is just another aspect of the self-generating plots 
players contrive on their own. In other games, you may plan the characters’ 
search for power from the beginning. In either case, you need to learn what 
long-term goals your players want to accomplish in the chronicle. You can 
then tailor an occasional session to the attainment of these goals, but don’t 
give the players everything they want. Some characters may covet powerful 
positions from local nobles, or to advance the agendas of outsider motleys. 
Others may seek to return to Arcadia, or to uncover knowledge of the 
Dreaming. 
On the other hand, more than a few players don’t know or admit what 
they want in the long-term, or may not desire power. Don’t worry, these folks 
will set their sights on something in time, especially if guided by their Legacies 
or other players. Practice stringing players along. Keep a carrot dangling 
before them. After all, you’ve got the whole world to play with as a Storyteller; 
you can certainly offer something to keep your Kithain coming back for more. 
The PRice OF PorueR 
In most chronicles, it’s likely that one or more characters might be in a 
position of power. If this is the case, the players need to know exactly what 
their responsibilities and advantages are. In general, any players in the role of 
nobles, mew representatives, motley leaders or, most rarely, Siochain, should 
be experienced enough to assist you as aNarrator. As powerful characters can 
have tremendous impact on lesser characters and the story as a whole, players 


play develops this sort of insight, but it is vital that players with characters in 
positions of power understand both their responsibilities and their limits. 
Powerful characters, if abused, can discourage players with weaker characters. 
This drives off new players, and eventually the power-garners may find 
themselves with no one to lord it over except one another. Nobles have as 
many responsibilities to their vassals as they have privileges, and it’s impor- 
tant they recognize what their obligations are as well as their perks. 
ChRonicle Dynamics 
The key to a successful chronicle is a constant and uninterrupted flow of 
action. This doesn’t mean there should be agunfight every time someone goes 
to the comer store, but it should mean that something is always going on in 
one sense or another. In the real world, events never stop occurring, and 
everyone, in one way or another, gets dragged into life’s chaos. Your chronicle 
should have the same ebb and flow to it. All characters should be drawn into 
the events around them. Every character should be doing something. Those 
in conflict may bide their time and pause to marshal their forces, but the 
tensionnever recedes. After all, if you give your players too much time to rest, 
relax and think, they may think about the fact that they’re just playing agame. 
Too much time for reflection can shatter the most carefully crafted illusionary 
worlds. 
TRouble in all Shapes and Sizes 
There are dozens of things in astory that can go wrong. This is particularly 
true of a chronicle. With the added level of complexity that comes with a 
chronicle, problems with continuity, advancement, numerous players, con- 
stant change and background plots are inevitable. A few of the more common 
chronicle problems, and how to deal with them, are detailed below: 
Problem Players -This 
problem is probably one of the most delicate 
and potentially disastrous you can face. For one reason or another, one or more 
players are disrupting the story and ruining everyone’s good time. This can be 
the result of many things: cheating, excessive rule quotation (“rules lawyer- 
ing”), personal vendettas or improper behavior. Once you detect a problem, 
your first action should be to approach the players privately and explain what 
they are doing and why you don’t like it. At that point, most people attempt 
to change their ways, and that’s that. Unfortunately, some players are prone 
to backsliding or just don’t take the problem seriously. The next step to 
consider is some sort of penalty. Temporary suspension from the chronicle is 
usually effective. Ifplayers continue to make trouble, you may have toperform 
the distasteful task of barring them entirely from your chronicle. Do not be 
afraid to remove characters that unbalance your game. If the character’s 


I
,
 
players. If not, you’re better off without him. 
Favoritism - 
There is often a tendency to give your friends special 
treatment. Be vigilant in watching for this habit in all those who run and play 
the game, including yourself. If the problem does arise, try to remember that 
Mind’s Eye Theatre is just a form of entertainment; no one can reasonably 
hold you responsible for a character’s loss. If the problem continues, try to 
isolate problem individuals from encounters where favoritism might occur. 
As a final option, remove the offender from any position in which she can 
dispense favors to others. 
Grudge - 
In this situation an individual is treated unfairly for some 
reason that is not related to her character’s nature or actions. Such is often the 
case with players who are not fond of each other in the real world. Handle it 
in a manner similar to favoritism problems. 
Stagnation - 
Even the most imaginative Storyteller occasionally runs 
out of ideas. Perhaps you’re running the game too often to give yourself time 
to create new and original stories. If this is the case, consider spacing sessions 
further apart to provide yourself more planning time. Another solution is to 
take on more Storytellers or Narrators to give the chronicle a greater creative 
base to draw on. A plot coordination council of some sort is almost essential 
to running large-scale chronicles. 
Logistics - 
Problems with supplies and locations are bound to arise. 
If this is the case, be sure to communicate with everybody involved in the 
game. Players are often able to help procure a setting, props, incidental 
supplies and all manner of other vital materials. 
Getting the News Out - 
Sometimes you just don’t have enough 
people to play the type of chronicle you’ve planned. This is more often a case 
of poor advertising than a genuine lack of bodies. Consider posting notices on 
electronic bulletin boards or on your local university network, in game and 
hobby stores, at conventions, at gaming organizations, with theatre or drama 
groups, on college campuses and anywhere else you think imaginative people 
with a taste for the original might be found. 
Staying Focused - 
At times your story may drift away from its original 
plot, or players may become lost. They may become too wrapped up in their 
own subplots or may be unable to unravel a puzzle that’s vital to moving the 
plot along. When this happens, you need something to bring the story back 
on course. Having a few extra props available can be helpful when the story 
goes off on a tangent. Many of the prop ideas already suggested can be used to 
reorient players. For example, an intercepted letter with the Duke’s seal on it, 
containing an important message (that just happens to be a vital plot point) 
can renew characters’ interest in their original goal. 


aain-cenance and RecoRd-Keeping 
It’s a simple fact that the longer a chronicle runs, the more complex it 
becomes. The increased size of some chronicles only amplifies this fact. 
Developing a method for and the habit of keeping records is essential. The 
easiest part of the chronicle to keep records on is characters’ statistics. Make 
a master copy of each character. Someone is bound to lose his character sheet 
and may need a replacement. Without a good memory or a master copy, this 
can pose a problem, especially with advanced characters. Storyteller records 
of characters also discourage unscrupulous players from altering their charac- 
ters in the field. Furthermore, you can make use of character information 
when designing new stories. It’s also a good idea to update your master copies 
after each story, given the inevitable changes arising from experience, rewards 
and penalties. A journal of events from each session proves equally invalu- 
able, helping you understand changes the chronicle undergoes. You can then 
apply these changes to new stories. 
Ideally, you, the Narrators and players should all file some sort of informal 
report after each story. Records from everyone can keep you appraised of all 
events and let you in on players’ individual intentions. To encourage players 
to provide this information accurately, consider making reports mandatory or 
award experience only after you receive them. Make it clear that these reports 
are confidential and will not be used to “screw players over.’’ 
Finally, you should keep an ongoing private record of all the oaths, geusa 
and other bonds that the players enter into, including all the parties who 
swore to the oath and the exact wording of the oath itself. Not only can this 
provide you with a reminder of what your players may not be able to do (or be 


disagreements over what an oath requires of another. Remember that Glam- 
our supports all oaths a changeling willingly swears to (or is magically bound 
by), and enforces the spirit of an oath, not necessarily the letter. (This isoften 
an excellent device for you to prevent power-gamers from trying to control 
other characters with tricky oaths.) Nothing is worse, though, than setting up 
a challenging scenario only to find a group of characters is unable to 
participate due to an oath they’ve sworn, and players will quickly resent it if 
they think you’re taking advantage of their oaths to force them to undertake 
certain actions. Keeping a clear record of oaths for those who have sworn 
them is the best way to head off this problem. 
b\dvancemenc and Balance 
The greatest reward for some players is the sheer joy of playing. However, 
many players prefer to see their characters improve in status and power. The 
needs of both types of gamers need must be satisfied to keep your chronicle 
well-populated. Players who enjoy the story for its own sake are easy to please. 
In fact, they often please themselves by pursuing the goals their characters 
desire, which are often interpreted by the players themselves. Pleasing 
accomplishment seekers is a little more difficult, however. Allow characters 
chances to improve their station in the chronicle, if doing so is within the 
scope of your storyline. When characters reach tangible goals, their players are 
happy. However, to keep players happy without their characters achieving 
impossible degrees of power, be prepared to take characters down apeg or two, 
or allow other characters to do so for you. Besides creating revenge motives, 
such attacks fire players’ desire to achieve more. Experience Traits, which 
players spend to improve their characters, are one form of reward, but there 
are others that are just as satisfying. Gaining the favor and support of other 
changelings can be more rewarding than any Art. 
Furthermore, there are numerous positions of power that experience 
can’t buy, but ambition and tenacity can. Even in well-planned chronicles, 
players may reach a point where they are bored and discontented with their 
place in the story, for no fault of yours. A player in this position actually has 
a couple of options. Starting a new character (and only playing the old one 
from time to time) helps players see if they still have what it takes to see a 
character grow and survive. As a Storyteller, make sure the player doesn’t use 
this option to accumulate power for both his characters. Bringing in an old 
character’s “relative” and allowing interaction between the siblings can mean 
trouble as they “work together.” The easiest way to discourage this is to deny 
any direct ties between old and new characters. Another option to is to take 
the “advanced” character as aNarrator or Storyteller character. The character’s 
experience with your chronicle and game as a whole can be used as a resource 
by lesser characters (i.e., other characters seek help from the experienced 
character), and the older character can be the basis for future stories. 


of fun in itself, as long as chronicle balance is maintained. 
Set-rring 
Storytelling is more than simply voice and action. The effects that create 
your playing environment also make your story come to life. When you’re 
running a story, you don’t want your players to imagine they’re playing in a 
world where enchanted beings walk in a world of wonder and beauty. You 
want them to feel they’re actually there. Setting the stage for a convincing 
Gothic-Punk world is a challenge, unless you happen to have a real castle or 
forested glen nearby to use. With creativity, however, creating this sort of 
setting becomes surprisingly easy. It requires some effort and imagination, but 
with a minimum of difficulty you can have taverns, castles, fairy rings and 
mystical freeholds created in no time. To help you get started, we’ve provided 
some hints and ideas. Ultimately, though, creating an environment is limited 
only by your imagination. Take the advice we provide and run with it. 
Seming and 6wiRonment 
More than any other element, the setting of a story has impact on that 
story’s feel. Your setting should therefore be taken into careful consideration 
when deciding on your story’s mood (which is discussed later). The fictional 
location you choose must fit the needs of your game as well as creating the 
atmosphere you have in mind. 
Finding Locations 
The first practical step in planning a game is finding a good place to play. 
Where you play the game is influenced by the specific needs of your story. 
Factors like the number of players involved, theme, mood and nature of the 
plot all have an influence on the type of location you should choose. The scale 
of the game is your first consideration. Make certain you have enough room 
for all the players to move about. Multiple rooms or areas are helpful. The best 
layout usually involves a central meeting room that all the players can 
congregate in and multiple smaller sites for secret meetings. Choose asite that 
will work well logistically, and then worry about decorations later. Possibili- 
ties include college campuses, dorm lounges, museums, night clubs, coffee 
houses, conventions, parks, shopping malls, office buildings and warehouses. 
Obviously, extreme care must be taken when using these sites. You must 
ensure that all of the players are courteous and unobtrusive when playing in 
a public place. No one not involved in your game should ever be disturbed in 
any way by a game, and players need to understand that the session is over if 
anyone finds out about the game and is disturbed by what you’re doing. If your 
players arrive in costume, sometimes you will draw attention, so always be 
polite and careful when “mundanes” come up and ask what’s going on. Under 


-feel free to explain at length what you’re doing, but don’t make mundanes 
a part of the game unless they specifically ask to play. 
Some sites are more conducive to a certain types of stories than others. 
You may find a particular location is your favorite, but even then, you should 
keep your mind open to change. A change of locale, even if for only one scene, 
can help revive a dying chronicle. Most locations (or “sets”) can be decorated 
to convey aspecific mood. You must seek out sites that cater to the style of your 
game and nature of its plot. For best results, the setting should have a basis in 
reality. In other words, if it’s a high energy social atmosphere you seek, stage 
your story in a nightclub (and find a place with good music, ambiance and a 
lot of room for people to move around.) If you’re looking for a calm and 
intellectual setting, perhaps an art museum or library (and thus a real one) 
would be best. For politics and power plays, try a noble’s hall. When choosing 
a location, look for an area that establishes the mood and atmosphere you’re 
after. Because the enchanted world takes precedence to changeling eyes, try 
to find places you can decorate and describe that would be magical and 
fantastic, but don’t overlook the mortal world either. Ideally, the players 
should have one location solely in the enchanted realm (a local freehold or 
glen, perhaps), and several others where both mortals and changelings might 
be found, so they can interact with other types of characters if they like. 
Changing Scenes 
Sometimes it’s necessary to use one area for different settings within the 
same story. Actual set changes should be performed quickly and efficiently. 
Lengthy set changes leave players bored. When your scene is changed, give 
it a last once-over, making sure everything is in place. A scene change should 
be just that. When the players enter the room again, they should have the 
distinct feeling that they’re entering a new place. Your new decorations don’t 
even need to be overly complicated. A quick shift of the couch or table, 
switching or removing a throw rug, draping a love seat and moving or 
removing chairs all help to change the feel of a room without necessitating 
major alterations. Changing the lighting and music can also make a big 
difference in a set’s feel. Have the players help out to keep them involved, if 
it wouldn’t ruin any surprises that you have in mind -you might just discover 
another artistic eye in your midst! 
Ambiance and m o o d  
The Shining Host offers you a chance to create a world from another 
time, in a mystical world, and challenges your creativity to do so. Establishing 
the right feel for a scene is governed by setting and environment. However, 
ambiance and mood are established and maintained by effects that are 
imposed upon the environment. Room decorations, recorded music and 
careful lighting are often the final touches for creating a scene. 


- ---- 
downright mundane. Playing The Shining Host in an accountant’s office can 
be difficult, to say the least, because of the stifling sterility such a place is likely 
to exude. Some people are lucky and find a room they can decorate with all 
kinds of fantastic touches, but most games will be located ina modern meeting 
hall of some kind. Don’t despair, though; all it takes is a few simple touches 
to spark players’ imaginations. Try to cover up mundane features with cloth 
or something else suitable, and decorate the place with features the players 
will find interesting and intriguing. Wall hangings, either decorated or just 
plain cloth, are usually the first place to start if you’re looking to create a local 
noble’s hall, and Changeling has many crests, symbols and coats of arms that 
can be used to spice up such decorations. For an Unseelie dive, add some 
posters for local underground groups and keep the area poorly lit (but not so 
dark as to be a safety hazard). If you can’t make a setting look 100 percent like 
what you want it to, aim for guiding the imagination of the players in that 
direction, and trust their good will to do the rest. 
Music - 
Music can be an integral part of establishing the mood of a 
story. It lends a hand in creating drama and, when appropriate, tension. When 
planning your story be certain to select music that complements your 
intended mood. Also make sure you have a variety of music on hand in case 
the mood changes. 
There are two types of music that you should have on site: in-game and 
out. In-game music is what the characters actually hear in a scene, whether 
it’s played by sprites or a mortal band brought into a freehold for an evening. 
It should be heavily mood-oriented and atmosphere-intensive, and while you 
may enjoy putting certain songs on for their value in terms of humor or out- 
of-character references, avoid doing so if the joke will break the game’s mood. 
What kind of music suits a scene depends on what you want, but try to avoid 
having a lot of prominent lyrics (they’re distracting) or having the volume at 
a level where it intrudes on the playability of the game. You may also be lucky 
enough to have a player or two who’s willing to perform in-game. Take 
advantage of this (assuming your player won’t be embarrassing himself by 
opening his mouth or taking out his guitar) and let his performance become 
part of the game. This is especially appropriate to the nature of The Shining 
Host, and can even be agood way to introduce players to a group or have some 
non-player friends stop by (as long as they know what they’re walking into). 
Of course, if any music happens to be central to the plot, feel free to do 
whatever you like with it, but make sure the players know that as well. 
You can also use music as background out-of-game music to enhance 
particular scenes. This is especially useful for combat scenes or settings in the 
Far or Deep Dreaming, away from the mortal world. If you use out-of-game 
music, feel free to use whatever creates the mood you are seeking. However, 
you still must take care not to let the music get obtrusive. If your players have 
to shout over thundering lyrics, your game will rapidly dissolve into chaos. 


recent popularity makes it easy to find good, authentic Celtic CDs - 
performers such as Loreena McKennitt, Clannad and Ashley McIsaac are a 
good start, but there are dozens more. Many folk groups provide excellent 
atmosphere as well, from Grey Eye Glances to Silly Wizard. 
Audio Effects: Above and beyond music, certain sounds and effects 
can enhance an evening. Horror and sound effect CDs, found in any music 
store, are a good place to start. A good FX CD can provide a variety of sound 
effects to simulate many different events, like screams, clashes of arms, 
clanging portcullises and so on. Proper timing of these sounds is critical. If 
you’re able to pre-mix a tape of effects, you can play those sounds at 
appropriate moments in the story. Preparation is the key. Have your effects 
cued up ahead of time so that, with the mere touch of a button, hideous 
screams or church bells can be heard by all. Preparation makes for infinitely 
more drama than delaying the entire game while you search for the right 
sound. 
Lighting Effects -The 
Gothic-Punk world has a lot of dim lights and 
dark comers, and while real fire is absolutely out of the question for most sites, 
you can add a lot of atmosphere to a freehold by recreating the light of the 
freehold’s balefire. You’ll also want a lot of unusual lights for the enchanted 
world, to show the difference that Glamour makes. Remember, a few well- 
placed shadows can hide a great many anachronisms that might otherwise 
distract your players from the game. 
When setting up your lights, follow these simple guidelines. Avoid high 
wattages and white light. Multicolored light bulbs have the broadest effect. 
By arranging multicolored light bulbs in different parts of the room, you can 
create shadowy areas and still have well-lit “white light” areas where the 
colors intersect. If you have track lighting, recessed multicolored bulbs work 
very well. If you can’t get multicolored bulbs, cloth draped over lights works 
just as well (but avoid putting cloth in direct contact with hot bulbs). The key 
is contrast from low wattage bulbs. Keeping enough low-wattage lights to 
contrast with one another results in plenty of light to see by and plenty of 
shadows to hide in. Play around with different combinations to determine 
what works best for your mood and scene. While candles may be very 
atmospheric, they should be used extremely sparingly. Remember, burning 
down your site generally has a detrimental effect on a chronicle. 
PROPS 
After you’ve got a story, players, a place to play and even selected an 
appropriate soundtrack to accompany the game, something else is still needed 
to bring the story to life. This is the point at which props come in. Props for 
a story don’t need to be grandiose or expensive. Most props can be found in 
your own home or your grandparents’ attic, or simply constructed. In Mind’s 


attention than the story itself. Only a few touches are needed to help a player’s 
imagination fill in the blanks. Since The Shining Host is a storytelling game, 
imagination is of the utmost importance. This is not to say that you should be 
sparing with props; merely that your chronicle will survive without them. If you 
have the available materials, go wild. Just make sure that the props are not the 
focus of the story. The spotlight should always remain on the characters, not on 
what surrounds them. 
C;eneRaI PROPS 
General props are items that can help you further a story by giving players 
something that they can physically examine. The Storyteller should be wary of 
how often physical props are used and what impact they have on the story. If 
physical props are allowed to dominate a story, players may begin to rely on 
them rather than interacting with one another. Be sure to inform players when 
props will be used in a story. Otherwise, characters are likely to disregard an 
important clue, considering it just another feature of the place you’re playing 
in. 
Many items can be used as general props to help enhance your story. 
Scrolls, jewelry, documents and pieces of artwork are a few examples. These 
props can be used to give game information, or they can merely grant insight 
into the character of the person possessing the prop. Sometimes an item has to 
be represented by an item card, as in the case of weapons. Also, a card may be 
discreetly attached to an item, giving more information to a player who inspects 
that particular prop. Creative and effective usage of general props can make a 
story more interesting for everyone, particularly if props are used to represent 
important items with plot (as well as character) significance. The important 
thing is to stay focused and avoid overloading yourself with gadgets and 
gewgaws. If you come up with an idea for a prop, but are unable to implement 
it, 
itsownwithout every lastwidget. After 
all, people, not things, make a story. 
PeRsonaI PROPS 
Personal props, like costumes, can be used by players to help distinguish 
them as their characters. In a Gothic-Punk game, such props are very important 
to help with mood. This form of assistance can be particularly useful for 
Narrators, especially when they must often change from character to character. 
Cloaks, tunics, scarves, hats, canes and jewelry are only a few of the accessories 
that can give a character a distinctive look. You may want to provide certain 
items to players to aid them in this manner, especially if players are uncertain 
of the identities of the characters they are playing. For example, providing 
matching tunics for the freehold’s guards, or a particular T-shirt for an Unseelie 
motley, will help to identify players as members of that group. 


characters, but, again, providing the right feel is fairly easy. Sweatpants, tights 
or an ankle-length skirt, boots or sandals of any sort, and a simple “T-tunic” 
is the standard garb of most medieval gaming, and is easy to assemble. You can 
often buy “poet shirts’’ (shirts with puffy sleeves and ruffles) instead of making 
your own tunic. Of course, a changeling can look like just about anything, and 
eshu in Egyptian garb, pooka in multicolored trenchcoats, or nockers dressed 
in piepans and tinfoil are all possible. Costume shops sell simple inexpensive 
cloaks, as do vintage clothing stores. More complex clothing will come with 
time, as skilled sewers amongst your gamers and Narrators become involved, 
but the tunic/poet shirt, sweatpants/tights/skirt, and boots/sandals combina- 
tion always works just fine. 
For other personal props, items such as costume jewelry work best; real 
jewels can be far too valuable to lend out for a game. Should all else fail, 
second-hand stores can be great places to pick up a few last-minute props at 
an affordable price. All manner of clothing, including hats, canes and 
costume jewelry, can be acquired at such emporiums. In many stories, not 
much is needed by way of personal props. Sometimes, only a cane or piece of 
jewelry can make a character. The most important thing to remember is to 
have fun with props, avoiding dangerous ones. 


Weapons should never be used as props. In addition, props must be 
understood to be someone’s property, not some character’s property. If your 
players start taking home the props that belong to their characters, perhaps 
it’s time toreconsider using props at all. If you chose to go this route, cards (like 
those used to represent weapons) are the best way to go. 
CReuring StoRies 
Story creation can be as simple or as detailed as you want. The more effort 
you put into preparing a story, the smoother the plot runs when it’s finally 
executed. There is no small amount of satisfaction to be gained from writing 
a successful and well-appreciated story - 
but that’s easier said than done. 
Finding the right combination of stimuli to ignite creative thought can be 
difficult. For some of us, creativity comes naturally. For others, it’s more 
difficult to bring creative aspects of one’s personality to the fore. However, 
this is exactly what you must do in order to create a good story. 
Inspiration can come from any source. Magazines, movies, books, the- 
atre, television, friends, family -you get the picture. The challenge is to take 
what you see and change it into something all your own. Inspiration can be, 
quite literally, any stimulus that ignites the process of creative thought. 
Hence, inspiration is very often as dependent on what’s without as on what’s 
within. What sends one person’s mind racing may bore someone else. You 
must find the things that inspire you (if you don’t already know what they are) 
and associate with them in order to ignite your creative fires. 
Ploz 
A story’s plot is its progression of events. Plot not only involves the 
machinations of the powers that be, but the machinations of the characters 
as they pursue their own goals in the story. Plots are essential to the successful 
advancement of the story, as plot is really nothing more than a term for the 
series of events making up the story. A story can have any number of plots (see 
“Story Style,” below, for more details on this). These plots should all be wound 
together with skill and care before the actual game begins, however, so you at 
least know how things are supposed to turn out. The trick is to have all the 
pieces of a plot already written in the characters’ briefings so they can read 
about their own respective parts of the overall plot at the game’s beginning 
- 
and then piece things together once gameplay starts. Together, the 
characters’ backgrounds compose the main plot, and by pursuing their own 
parts of the plot, the characters advance the plot as a whole. During a story, 
it’s often helpful to keep a schedule of events. This device is basically a pre- 
planned sequence of events (usually initiated by outside forces) that are going 
to occur regardless of the characters’ actions. Typically, characters played by 


Narrator characters into the story to assist the progression of the plot (or 
plots). These tactics should be used sparingly; otherwise players may grow 
dependent upon interaction with Narrators instead of with each other. 
However, occasional Narrator intervention can add a new level of 
unpredictability and excitement to a story. 
&ments oF a STTORY 
The elements of a story are best defined by its components or stages. It is 
often helpful to think of plot elements in terms of tense (past, present and 
future). In terms of story structure, these elements are addressed in the 
opening, climax and resolution of your chronicle. At the beginning of the 
story, characters reflect on events of their past that have brought them to the 
story. The story’s climax is where the story’s plot (or plots) are exposed and 
dealt with by some or all of the characters. Finally, there’s the resolution, 
where the story comes to a close and you can set up story hooks for future tales. 
Opening 
The opening can be any point at which you choose to begin your story. 
It can be a gradual, gentle start or a shocking plunge into the world of the 
Kithain. The latter works best if the characters start out as normal humans; 
the former is better for extended chronicles with older changelings. At the 
beginning of a story, each character should have a written synopsis of recent 
events that “everyone” would be aware of. This provides a basis for your plots, 
as well as laying down some common ground for characters to discuss. With 
such common knowledge, you’re also helping to set the tone and theme of 
your game. The synopses of common knowledge and recent personal events 
should be brief explanations of the situation at hand. They should be precise 
and intriguing. These synopses should be the first media through which 
players get a feel for the story’s mood. The synopses should also hint at the 
story’s main theme. You may even wish to foreshadow the plot, but that 
depends on your personal style. 
When the main plot is on the verge of conclusion, the story is considered 
at its climax. This usually happens when characters have discovered all they 
need to know to solve whatever problem faces them and are on the verge of 
resolving the story. The tension is usually at its highest point at this time. If 
the opening was staged carefully, and the players are cooperative and 
imaginative, the climax can be reached with little additional effort on the part 
of Narrators. However, even the best of plans can be mislaid, or perhaps the 
Storyteller and Narrators prefer to take a more active role in the progression 
of your story’s plot. Either way, there are times when aNarrator’s intervention 
is warranted. The climax should be the high point of the story, something the 


-
I
 
should never be rushed. It’s a matter of timing. Extended chronicles shouldn’t 
have everything wrapped up in a single climax. After all, you need to have 
something for the changelings to do next week. Often, a story’s climax takes 
the form of a combat, but this doesn’t always have to be the case. Decisive 
votes, debates, unveilings, trials by fire and so on can all bear the dramatic 
weight of serving as a story’s climax. 
Resoluirrion 
The story’s resolution is where all (or most) of the pieces come together. 
The resolution should be used as a means of winding the excitement down 
while cultivating an interest in future stories. Players should always end astory 
feeling as though they have accomplished something. They do not have to 
uncover the big picture; merely knowing they’ve found another piece of the 
puzzle is often enough. In Mind’s Eye Theatre, players often enjoy gathering 
for a group wrap-up session after a game. Unlike players of tabletop games, 
players of The Shining Host rarely see all of the action that takes place- they 
get wrapped up in their own plots, not the group’s. During wrap-up sessions, 
many players look forward to learning more about “the big picture.” At the 
wrap-up, players share their version of the story and, in so doing, give other 
players an opportunity to see more of the game they just took part in. Plus, it’s 
a great chance for everyone to tell stories about their characters -and 
show 
off their accomplishments, which can be great fun as well. 
OFF-Line Gaming 
The game doesn’t have to end when everyone puts down their character 
sheets. In-character e-mails, informal discussions at coffeehouses and the like 
can all serve both as roleplaying exercises and as ways to advance plots. AS 
long as players keep some perspective on this sort of thing (Phone calls at 3 
AM to discuss minor plot points generally signal a need for time out), off-line 
gaming can be a great way to shade in the gray areas of your game. 
S-CORLJ 
ConsideRations 
There are several factors that must be taken into consideration before you 
can begin scripting astory. The scale, number of players and general character 
types are all important elements that must be kept in mind. Rampaging 
chimerical teddy bears and vicious Unseelie raiders don’t fit well into political 
chronicles; pacifist philosophers don’t last long in hack-n-slash games. Tailor 
your plots to what you have to work with in terms of group, character and 
setting. 
Scale 
Scale is the number of people you have playing. Games can range in size 
from handfuls to hundreds, and you need to ensure that no matter how many 
changelings are out there, there’s something for everyone potentially to do. 


character interaction, but there needs to be a metaplot, a grand scheme that 
gives everyone a starting point. Not everyone is capable of making his own 
fun, and as such you need to prepare a story that, at minimum, has something 
for everyone. 
Scope 
The scope of your story is a very important consideration. Whether the 
story involves a massive plot to destroy the greatest of Dauntain or find a 
childling’s lost toy is a matter of scope. Scope boils down to what’s won or lost. 
Scope can be limited by the number of players in the game. You shouldn’t 
always have stories with huge scope; players grow bored with “saving the 
world” every week. On the other hand, you should not keep the players from 
getting involved in potentially earth-shattering stories. Balance is the key. 
Metaplots should have bigger scopes than local plots. Obviously, the more 
characters involved in a plot, the higher the stakes should be. Don’t forget 
your mortals when creating plots, either. The actions of the mundanes have 
a huge effect on the Kithain, in terms of audiences, influence and even 
emotion. On a more pragmatic note, it’s no fun to sit around as a member of 
mortal society, waiting patiently to Ravaged. Make sure your humans have 
something worthwhile to do, too. 
Cast. 
Another factor to take into consideration is the type of characters players 
portray. The best way to determine this is to ask them. A story usually works 
best if players are enacting characters they are comfortable with, although it 
can occasionally be interesting to cast players in roles different from what 
they’re used to playing. This variation in casting should only be done if you 
think it would be enjoyable for all the players. An important consideration is 
whether you are giving players premade characters, with complete back- 
grounds, Attributes and Arts, or if players are allowed to make their own 
characters. Sometimes the guidelines lie somewhere in-between. Obviously, 
the easiest of these options is to use pre- made characters. This allows you to 
customize your story to the characters, tying them to one another to make for 
a more intriguing plot. The problem with this is that players are sometimes 
disappointed with the characters they get. This can detract from everyone’s 
enjoyment. 
Style is the method you use in constructing your story. It describes how 
the subplots tie in with the main plot and how characters interact with the 
environment you have chosen. Style is the thread from which your story is 
woven. Without style, a story has no cohesive form and might well become 
boring for players. You need to develop and hone your style so as to be able 


explore. 
Cnain Plot 
The main, or metaplot is the root of a story, and any other lesser plots from 
the main plot. The main plot is what brings characters together, unifying their 
attention. The main plot of a story should be all- encompassing, in that all 
characters should be affected by it in at least a minor fashion. The main plot 
should illuminate every other aspect of the story. Not every character needs 
to be touched by your metaplot directly, but each character should be aware 
of the main plot at least on some peripheral level. 
Subplots 
In most novels and movies, subplots are just filler material. Subplots are 
essential to Mind’s Eye Theatre, however. These secondary stories keep 
characters busy and carry them from moment to moment. They are the stories 
that are woven around the characters. A story gives players ample opportu- 
nities to explore subplots, and due to the unique nature of this sort of game, 
subplots can be taken as far as the players want to take them. Each character 
should be involved in as many subplots as possible. A subplot can be any 
personal goal a character is trying to accomplish. Subplots should be crafted 
so as to intermingle with one another, so that characters become embroiled 
in a web of intrigue as one subplot leads them to another. The more layers of 
intrigue in a story, the more players enjoy untangling them. Indeed, if your 
setting is intricate enough, you may find players developing subplots of their 
own, adding to the confusion. This wild metastasis of plot should be encour- 
aged, because it helps the story grow and gives it a life of its own. A subplot 
can sometimes be almost as large in scope as the main plot, the difference 
being that in a subplot, it is not necessary for everyone to be involved for it 
to come to fruition. However, you should take care that the subplot does not 
override the main plot; the word is prefixed with “sub-” for a reason. 
Chawc-ceR klations 
Character interaction is a part of every story and every chronicle. 
Intricate character interaction is essential to a story. That is not to say that 
all characters will get along harmoniously - 
character strife is usually much 
more interesting than One Big Happy Enchanted Family. However, making 
sure that characters relate to one another requires a bit of planning on your 
part. Making sure that players create backgrounds for their characters helps, 
as it gives you more material to work with to create common ground for 
Kithain characters to share. Spreading rumors that provide incentive for 
discussion, trade, and cooperation is another good way to go, as is the 
inclusion of a nasty villain who will force characters at least to discuss working 
together. 


Each of us possesses a multitude of goals and ambitions. Many of them 
conflict, and we have to choose between them. For instance, you might want 
to go to the movies on the same day you want to visit a friend. Multiple goals 
complicate matters, and while in real life that can be bothersome, in this game 
it only adds to the excitement. The more complicated you can make things, 
the better. Complications such as multiple goals give characters depth and 
keep players busy. A player with several goals is usually occupied throughout 
the course of a story and is rarely bored. Indeed, if players with multiple goals 
achieve even one of those goals, they probably leave the story with a sense of 
accomplishment. 
Now that you have written a story, you need to make it work in a live 
game. Narrating a story is an art akin to juggling; you have to keep up with all 
story threads, play judge and make sure that none of the players get bored - 
you’ll have quite a few eggs in the air at all times. Storytelling requires a lot 
ofwork and planning and usually leaves you exhausted. There is apositive side 
to it, however. As Storyteller, you have a ringside seat to the story and can 
watch it unfold in its entirety. Because your control of the story is loose (tight 
control denies player freedom), you may be surprised by how the story twists 
and changes in the hands of your players. If you do your job well, you will be 
rewarded with the players’ thanks and agreat game as well. Ofcourse, with the 
great rewards of storytelling comes a great deal of responsibility. You have to 
initiate and guide the story and present it in an entertaining manner. You, 
above all people involved, can most easily destroy the story. Even a very good 
story can be ruined if it’s not presented well. If a few required player handouts 
are missing, or if players have no idea where the game is taking place, you have 
failed. 
It is very important that you prepare every aspect of that story as far ahead 
of time as possible. If you try to prepare an entire game at the last minute, you’ll 
be stressed out by the time the game begins. The game will suffer heavily from 
your exhaustion. Veteran Storytellers should take note that running a live 
game is very different from running old-style roleplaying games. You can no 
longer sit down an hour before play commences and dream up a quick plot. 
If you try to do this, your story will have lots of holes. If you change your setting 
in mid-story, you need to represent the change in some way so players realize 
where they are without having to ask. Prepare everything in advance or suffer 
the folly of sloth. The main rule to remember when preparing your story is 
“show, don’t tell.” You have to present your story so players can make their 
own impressions of the environment without your impressions being forced 
on them. Live games work because players can take the lead based on 
information they discover themselves. If you have not fleshed out your story 


enough - 
if you have to tell players what’s going on over and over again - 
you might as well be playing a tabletop roleplaying game, because everything 
that’s special about Mind’s Eye Theatre will be missing. Fortunately for you, 
players usually cooperate in every way to help you maintain the illusion, but 
it’s up to you to direct their attention from the game-like aspects of roleplaying. 
How co Hosc a Game 
Running an entire chronicle can be exhausting unless you pace yourself. 
Expect to spend a minimum of an hour per player writing the story and setting 
everything up. Expect to actually play a story bi-monthly or even monthly. 
Trying to run a weekly game is very taxing and may result in the eventual 
death of your chronicle (not to mention your own nervous breakdown). Don’t 
make your games frequent and tedious, but rare and spectacular. 
SC0RC.J C e l l e R  FOCUS 
As a Storyteller, your focus should always be on keeping the game 
running as smoothly as possible. To ensure that the game doesn’t get out of 
hand, make sure you have enough Narrators. They’ll serve to answer players’ 
questions and resolve the majority of inter-player disputes, as your arbitration 
should only be required in the most extreme circumstances. More impor- 
tantly, though, your Narrators will be an integral part of game action. As the 
arbiters of any large-scale conflict, noble courts, and a guide to how Banality 
might rear up at any moment to menace the Kithain, Narrators will be in 
constant interaction with players in all levels of your game. This requires a 
great deal of commitment from your Narrators, as they’ll constantly be on the 
go, interacting with only a few characters at a time. 
On the up side, your Narrators will have a good idea of who is working 
with who, and can keep you informed. They also can spread information and 
rumors through the many Narrator characters they animate. Rather than 
having to cook up a convoluted plot to let characters know that a grump 
sluagh is becoming a Dauntain, you can have a Narrator character whisper it 
quickly into a player’s ear. Of course, that informant could be lying - 
which 
could lead to all new plots and paranoia. At the same time, if the action slows 
or people are getting frustrated, having your Narrators constantly on the floor 
enables you to pinpoint trouble spots quickly. Concentrate on where players 
stand in terms of resolving the plot or solving the mystery you have given 
them. If they are struggling, drop a few hints and spread a few rumors, then 
watch your changelings scramble to discover new information. If the players 
are too close to solving the mystery, throw in a red herring or create a new 
scene on the fly. Improvisation is a potent art, and Storytellers who learn to 
use it are well-rewarded. 
If you are playing in public, you must serve as a buffer between the 


Preparation is essential to running a successful story. The greater the prepa- 
ration, the less you have to worry about maintaining focus. A well-prepared 
game frees you to enjoy your creation and interact with players, while a poorly 
prepared game leaves you scrambling to maintain control. When you main- 
tain focus on story elements, the surroundings and your players, you need not 
fear the results of any game session. 
T‘rxe-qame Tasks 
There are several things you need to do to set up and run a game of The 
Shining Host. 
1 -Make sure you know the size and scope of your game before anything 
else; it’s the only way to make sure there’s enough staff and plot for everyone. 
2 - 
Get all of your props and costumes lined up well in advance. These 
usually require the most legwork and take the most time to round up, so you 
don’t want to be chasing after them last minute. 
3 - 
Choose a good core staff and delegate. You can’t do everything 
yourself; don’t even try. Find people you trust and turn them loose. 
4 - 
Make sure everyone is working on the same page. A lot of work can 
be wasted by duplication or misunderstandings. Have everyone aware of what 
everyone else is doing. 
5 - 
Keep a paper trail. Note when tasks are accomplished and where 
everything is. Keep track of who did well and who didn’t. It’ll make next time 
easier. 
6 - 
Define everyone’s role. Power squabbles and unfinished tasks are 
both unproductive. 
7 - 
Set deadlines and keep to them for all tasks related to the game. 
8 - 
Get your essential paperwork done. This includes arranging sites, 
briefing sheets, and plot creation. If you save this sort of work-intensive thing 
for the last minute, if there’s a screwup your whole game may be left high and 
dry. 
9 - 
Pace yourself. If you bum out creating the game, you’ll have no fun 
10 -Relax. It’s a game, not brain surgery. If one week‘s game doesn’t go 
running it. 
well, you can always learn from your mistakes and do better next time. 
c 
h a R a c c e R  c 
Reaci on 
It is your role as Storyteller (aided by Narrators) to guide players through 
the character generation process. It is generally best to have character 
creation go on off-line, well before your actual game action starts. This 
enables you to gauge accurately the power level and mood of your game. In 
addition, having access to character histories will enable you to create 
plotlines that force characters to interact. Knowing characters’ backgrounds 


useful if the action starts to flag. After your players arrive for the game session, 
you need to introduce them to the basic premise of the game. Your main goal 
should be to make contributing to the story as easy as possible for players. If 
your players are beginners, show them the basics, but let them discover the 
intricacies of the game on their own. Hopefully everyone playing will have at 
least a basic idea of the rules, but be prepared to field questions and help out 
beginners. Start by laying out any briefing sheets you want to use on a table 
and invite players to look them over. You can pass out character sheets at the 
same time. Give the players time to look everything over and ask questions. 
If players can refer to the briefings and their character cards while they listen 
to your explanations, they’ll understand how things work a lot better. 
It’s also likely that you have certain roles in the story that you need filled. 
Your story probably has requirements, in terms of characters and setting, that 
must be understood by all concerned. Even if you don’t have specific 
requirements, you probably have a general idea of the types of characters you 
need. The best way to deal with this is to request certain players to fill those 
roles beforehand; usually the extra “oomph” that a precreated character is 
likely to have (not to mention its obviously central role in upcoming plots) 
will be enough to make up for the disappointment a player might feel over not 
being able to create her own character. If you’re running an extended 
chronicle, odds are that most of your players will simply show up and start 
playing once you declare things “on line.” This makes your job a lot easier - 
who wants to do briefings at the beginning of each session - 
but be careful 
to catch new players who might get lost in the shuffle. Bringing them into line 
with what the rest of the game is already doing will make everyone happier 
than if new players are forced into swimming upstream against established 
plots and characters. 
When players begin to arrive, you need to give them information. You 
need to tell them what’s happenedsince the last story (if anything) and should 
provide goals and motivations for the upcoming evening. Prepare as much 
information as you can in written form for players to read as they arrive. Here 
are some handouts that you can create to facilitate your story’s introduction. 
Character Cards - 
You need to have enough of these for all your 
players. It’s wise to have spare cards on hand, since players, who have their 
own characters, may forget their cards. In addition, you’ll need pencils for 
everyone who’s forgotten their own. 
Timetable - 
(For Narrators only) This sheet contains a chronological 
list of all events that take place. Timetable sheets are useful for planning 
complex stories, and help your Narrators coordinate where they have to be 
when. Events listed might be, “10:OO PM: Herald of the Duke arrives and 


Narrators has her own copy and go through the events on the handout during 
your Narrator briefing. 
Background Briefing - 
This is a one-pager that you can create to 
provide a short background for the important characters of your chronicle. 
You should include any important events that have occurred, rumors that are 
circulating throughout the setting and important things that have happened 
in previous games. A new player should be able to pick up this handout and 
immediately have an idea of what is going on. (Lost players tend to be bored 
players, and bored playersdon’t come back.) The handout can mention things 
like what setting the chronicle takes place in and the name of the local movers 
and shakers. Make several copies of this document and give one to each 
player, or leave several out in the open for players to take. 
Character Briefing - 
Depending upon how thorough your character 
creation process is, you may need to let individual players know special tidbits 
that their characters know. It’s best to have these writtendown; even the most 
talented roleplayers have to resort to their notes every now and then. 
Guiding PlayeRs 
As your players begin to work out the story, it’s possible that they may be 
unsure of themselves. New players in particular need some sort of guidance to 
help them learn the rules and get used to acting out their characters’ actions. 
Step into a minor character in your story and engage a new player in a minor 
challenge to get her used to the rules. The challenge system works well in play, 
but most people do not immediately understand it until after they’ve actually 
defended themselves in a challenge, and gotten to try out the system in a non- 
life-or-death situation. Try to let new players win your challenge, as it builds 
their confidence, and confidence is sorely needed when newcomers play in 
the same game as more experienced players. Sometimes players also need help 
with their goals. A story that leans heavily toward investigation may frustrate 
players who miss one or two vital clues. 
Eventually, some players may come over to you asking for help. Unless 
the players have a rules question, or you have to clarify some point that a 
character should know by virtue of his history or background, you might not 
want to give information away too easily at first. If a player receives immediate 
assistance from a Storyteller or Narrator, he may become dependent on 
outside help. Instead of giving direct answers to player questions, encourage 
players to figure things out for themselves. Later, if a player really does need 
help, have another Narrator, in the guise of a minor character, assist the 
player. If another Narrator is not available, you can approach the player and 
offer aid through your own character (although having another Narrator do 
it involves a touch of finesse). Pull your assistance off cleanly and the player 
will never know you have responded to his plea. 


game. These players have usually either accomplished or hopelessly failed to 
achieve their goals, or can’t find the motivation to pursue adifficult goal. Your 
best options are to get a bored player involved in another plot, or to make up 
a customized plot on the spot that centers on the bored player’s character. If 
your character mentions a lead to a powerful treasure that others are looking 
for, the player may spend time following that lead. Alternatively, giving the 
bored player a clue that someone else has missed allows you to kill two birds 
with one stone, as other players will need to talk to this character - 
giving 
him all sorts of new chances for character interaction. It’s a good idea to have 
a library of new plots on hand that you can drop into your chronicle as needed. 
Remember to be vigilant for bored players during your first few games; first- 
time players might not come back if they’re bored all evening long. If you don’t 
keep the players busy with plots, their characters may start swinging at each 
other just for something to do. At this point, the game quickly degenerates 
into a free-for-all. You’ll probably find that players stay busy as your chronicle 
progresses because they spend more time dabbling in the plots of other players. 
1nceRactzing ruich PlayeRs 
Your key to interacting with players is the type of minor character known 
as an extra. An extra can be a pre-generated character already woven into the 
story, or a character created on the spur of the moment to fix a problem. You 
rarely need to create a character card for your extra; a basic concept is usually 
enough. (If the player characters really want to kill or otherwise interact with 
the extra so that Traits are called for, improvise as the plot demands.) Each 
character you introduce needs to have an easily identifiable mark so players 
can recognize which minor character you are playing. A wearable prop, such 
as a hat, coat, scarf, bandanna or amulet is usually enough. A distinctive 
speech pattern, like an accent, is at least as useful. Remember that the mark 
needs to be something that you can put on and take off quickly, since you may 
end up having to switch between several minor characters over the course of 
an evening’s play. Your extra(s) should be enjoyable to play. During the 
middle of a story, you may find that you and the Narrators have little to do. 
You then have a chance to play your bit parts just for fun. Go a little wild. Try 
to provide some comic relief if you feel the game is getting too heavy, and most 
of all, enjoy yourself. If you’re not having fun, even if the players are, 
something’s wrong. 
Playerr Quesiions 
Aside from having a way to deal with players within the context of the 
story, you need to handle players’ questions outside the story. During the first 
half hour of a game, it’s a good idea to keep a Narrator “out of game” to answer 
any questions players might have. When players step out of character to ask 
questions, you don’t want them in the main playing area. Set the “outside” 


interacting with players is to never remind them they are playing a game; 
addressing a Narrator as a Narrator does just that. You may occasionally need 
to impart information that a character can not offer. You have to provide such 
information as discreetly as possible without distracting players from their 
characters. If you want to be stylish about offering game information to 
players, you can prepare notes for Narrators to hand to players who discover 
things. You can also put notes in closed envelopes where clues might be found. 
You can write requirements on the outside an envelope, requirements that 
must be met before the player may look at the clue within. One thing you want 
to avoid when dealing with players is letting them overuse Narrators. Players 
may try to use Narrators as messengers, to summon other characters, or to try 
new and interesting abuses of Arts. If a player asks for such favors too often, 
Narrators can simply refuse their help. Tied to running plots and arbitrating 
conflicts, Narrators are simply in too short a supply to allow them to become 
hostages to individual characters or roles. 
WoRking ruith NURKUCOKS 
As a Storyteller, you can’t do everything yourself. It’s not possible. No 
matter how good a Storyteller you are, you’re going to need the help of 
Narrators (unless, perhaps, you have only five or six players). If you try to run 
the whole story, you will quickly become overwhelmed. It’s best to delegate 
tasks and let your Narrators make judgment calls. Ideally, you, as Storyteller, 
should not have to deal with players very much (unless you establish yourself 
as a Narrator as well as Storyteller). You should wander around and observe 
to make sure the story is proceeding well. Players should learn to go to 
Narrators with their questions. A player should refer to you only if a Narrator 
has no idea how to handle a question. 
To ensure that Narrators understand what’s going to happen in the story, 
you should meet with them early in the evening. If no one but you knows 
what’s going on, your Narrators aren’t much use, and could even prove a 
hindrance if they direct events in the wrong fashion. You should assign tasks 
to Narrators at this time. For example, you can ask a Narrator to provide a clue 
to a character, but let the Narrator work out how and when that clue is 
delivered. Narrators need to keep you informed of their rulings and of story 
events. Avoid reversing a decision that a Narrator has made. Doing so makes 
Narrators seem indecisive and leads players to doubt them. If you want to run 
a large game, you are going to need assistants, and you have to learn to 
communicate with them effectively. 
The Teeming HoRdes 
For The Shining Host, you will need a large cast of willing Narrators. If 
you underpopulate your Narrative staff, you shortchange your players by 


Furthermore, a shortage of staff can make complicated scenes stagnate as 
Narrators try to run too much at once. Do whatever it takes to make sure that 
you have enough Narrators, or your story will fall apart under its own weight. 
Pacing che SCORLJ 
More often than not, astory does not run according to schedule. It either 
drags late into the night or players work too quickly and become bored with 
their accomplishments. It’s during times like these that you need to reach into 
your bag of tricks and adjust the pace of the story. Dealing with stories that are 
running too long is, thankfully, relatively simple. It’s easy to push on the 
accelerator. You can start by doling out clues and information through 
character contacts and the introduction of new props. One of the simplest 
tools you can have in your repertoire is a number of characters to throw into 
the adventure. Simply introduce a character who has the tools to help solve 
the problem, but for a price. 
Prolonging play time is a little more tricky than reducing it. Stretching 
out the action means prolonging the story, but if the story is complete, you 
have to make up new events in the spot. However, instead of creating an 
entirely new plot, you might be able to extend the “finished” story by going 
on past its logical conclusion. Extending stories works very well if you have 
a group of Narrators who are flexible, creative and who like to work “on the 
run.” If you foresee the story ending early, there are ways of prolonging it by 
distracting players. Essentially, you can introduce subplots in order to pull 
characters off the beaten path. If you have a chance, work out one or two 
subplots for every story. Try not to overuse any particular devices for 
prolonging a story, or people will get bored, but an ever-new batch of red 
herrings can prove amusing. 
The best way to slow players down is to present them with something new 
as a distraction. Bring in a Big Evil Nasty Thing (B.E.N.T.), or have the local 
Dauntain threaten, and you can be certain that the linear plot will be set aside 
in the face of the incipient threat. Just make sure the players don’t feel that 
you’ll sick a horde of rampaging foes on them every time they decide to take 
their time doing something, and you’ll be fine. One of the more unusual tricks 
to use while improvising is to create a set of events with no obvious 
explanation. Then listen to the explanations your players propose and choose 
one to be the case, or base your explanation on the theory you like best. (Just 
don’t let it show that you didn’t have the foggiest idea what you were going 
to do with this twist when you introduced it.) While this tactic may seem 
cheesy, some absolutely amazing stories can be developed this way. 


In Mind’s Eye Theatre, the Storyteller and Narrators have only limited 
control over what occurs in the story. While you can often predict human 
behavior to know where a story might lead, things never work out as planned. 
Players have a tendency to ignore old goals, creating new plotlines without a 
second thought for your hours of preparation and cunningly laid plans. While 
such situations can be disconcerting, it’s not always a bad thing for your 
players to improvise. Unforeseen plot turns are, in fact, what Mind’s Eye 
Theatre is all about. The trick is to use what the players give you, instead of 
fighting with them. If players generate new plots, you can continue them in 
the next story, providing you with new material upon which to build. If you 
let players run with what they come up with, your story may go in entirely 
unexpected - 
but rewarding - 
directions. 
While the story may go off on a tangent, headed toward no foreseeable 
conclusion, you can usually apply finesse to work things out. The hardest part 
is knowing when to say no, and recognizing when to stop destructive subplots 
in their tracks. The rule of thumb is, if a new direction adds depth to the story, 
entertains people and doesn’t get in the way, let it run its course. As with all 
things, though, people can go too far in improvisation. The following are some 
signs indicating that events might be getting out of control: 
Characters begin attacking everything that moves for no obvious 
reason. (This is probably the best sign.) 
There is excessive character “death” during a game. 
A key antagonist is killed, disabled, captured or otherwise prevented 
from becoming a key figure in the story without good reason. 
Players begin acting on out-of-character knowledge (also known as 
“ninja sense,” “metagaming” or “cheating”). 
Important items or clues are destroyed, discarded or stolen with little 
or no cause. 
The essential center of the game (i.e., the struggle against Banality) is 
being casually discarded. 
Try to avoid halting the story altogether, or telling players “No.” Work 
within the story to put things right. Once a player puts a plan that would have 
a detrimental effect on the game into motion, rather than coming down like 
a ton of bricks, you can encourage other characters to work against the 
offending story. Doing so creates more plotlines and alleviating the suspicion 
that you are “out to get” any particular player. 
Just try to avoid having players work against each so much that they carry 
such antipathy out of character. Only when things look bleak, and you have 
tried in vain to fix story problems, should you introduce a dew ex machina 
ending. Essentially a plot hammer, the D.E.M. should be reserved for those 
moments when the chronicle needs to be manhandled back into some 


v 
dragon that unites all of the squabbling characters, a visit’from the High King, 
and so on. However, there are limitations on this sort of approach. Use a plot 
hammer too often, and players will feel hopeless, and that they’re being 
controlled too tightly. Use it too seldom, and characters can run amuck. Good 
uses of the plot hammer include having problem characters fall into Bedlam, 
introducing a powerful outsider who’ll force characters to cease pointless 
internal squabbling, bringing in an overwhelming threat that dictates that 
everyone work together to stop it, or, as a last resort, stopping the game until 
you’ve had time to regroup and your players have had a chance to calm down. 
Also, the downtime will allow you to introduce plot elements via e-mail or 
conversations with players that will serve to prevent recurrences of trouble 
situations. 
Laying Down che Law 
It’s your responsibility to ensure that players are not a hazard to others, 
including people who are not involved in the game. It is mandatory that the 
normal rules of social interaction be strictly adhered to. Most players will 
probably work with you in this regard. However, from time to time, there are 
those who prove disruptive to other players and the environment where the 
game is beingplayed. Many times this disruptionoccurs by accident. However, 
there may be instances when players get out of hand on purpose. If such a 
situation presents itself, it’s not considered bad taste to remove the offender 
from your game. It is, after all, your game and your creation. The integrity of 
your game should be preserved for the enjoyment of other players. The 
integrity of the game should also be upheld in the minds of those who do not 
play or understand Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Resolving ARgumencs 
As Storyteller (and to a lesser degree as a Narrator), you have final word 
in any dispute that may arise between players. It is your responsibility to 
maintain peace between players to ensure the smooth flow of the story and its 
enjoyment by all. Players should be given the opportunity to speak their minds 
on a situation in which they disagree, but things should never be allowed to 
devolve into shouting or other such unpleasantness. It’s a game, after all. 
While it is suggested that you listen to a player’s grievances, remember that 
your decision is final and must be adhered to by all concerned. Once you make 
a call, that’s that - 
the discussion is over. Be firm, or players will always be 
after you to change decisions you’ve made. Be consistent in the way you 
resolve rules conflicts, or people will think you’re not being fair. It’s best to 
combine an understanding ear and a firm hand. Keep your wits about you and 
your players will respect you for it. If a player’s problems prove a disruption to 
the story, they may have to be put on hold and dealt with after the night’s 
session. And remember, no single individual is bigger than the game. If 


your rights to suspend or even to banish that player from the game. 
BReaking che Rules 
The rules are yours to use and abuse as you see fit. Your concept of the way 
The Shining Host should be played may change constantly. Bend or break 
the rules to your liking. The rules serve the story; the story does not serve the 
rules. If you come upon a situation that isn’t covered by the rules, don’t panic 
- 
improvise. Improvising rules involves nothing more than applying com- 
mon sense to a situation. Don’t be afraid of going against the grain in such 
cases. Just do what makes the most sense for your story and your characters, 
and things will work out fine. After all, if it comes down to a question of rules 
versus story, story should win every time. 
SCORLJ 
Ideas 
If you’ve never run a Shining Host story before, your first story ideas can 
be hard to develop. The traditional sword and sorcery plots from fantasy games 
don’t quite capture the bifurcated worldview of changelings, but the sort of 
plots one might use in a Masquerade game simply aren’t light enough for The 
Shining Host. 
Luckily, we’re here to help you out. Here is a quick list of story ideas and 
suggestions tospark your imagination. Come up with astory idea, choose asite 
to locate it, and then study the history of the land to decide how it might be 
changed by the events of your chronicle. Smaller chronicles need to be tightly 
focused, whereas larger ones need complex plots that allow players to interact 
with each other without the aid of a Narrator at every elbow. Plots can even 
be run with all the players as mortals, just learning of the Kithain element of 
reality! Here are a few suggestions to start you thinking: 
A long-lost changeling returns from the Deep Dreaming claiming to be 
the first of a new noble house, and displaying new standards and powers. Is he 
lying? What would the appearance of a new house mean? 
The characters visit a whole town run by Kithain (known as a 
“thorpe”). 
The game recreates a traveling circus, moving its Glamour day by day 
from place to place. 
Unseelie revolutionaries fight to overthrow a cruel Seelie leader. 
Characters on both sides become embroiled in the conflict. 
A powerful treasure, perhaps the sword of the High King, is stolen. 
Now, everyone wants the sword - 
but no one knows who has it, or where. 
A prominent mortal is murdered, and evidence points to a Kithain 
assassin. Who killed him? Why did they kill him? Can the characters root out 
the killer before the investigation drops a weight of killing Banality on the 
area? 


reason, leaving a group of happy-go-lucky, mischievous wilders in charge - 
the mice will play. What havoc will occur, and what happens if the noble 
comes back unexpectedly? 
A powerful Unseelie sorcerer seeks to harness Banality and the undying 
power of vampire blood to transform himself into a truly immortal being. The 
characters not only must stop him, but keep the Kindred from learning of the 
Dreaming’s secrets. 
A knight of the Red Blade, one of the noblest orders in Concordia, has 
been murdered with cold iron, and the rest of the order is looking for answers. 
An ancient dragon comes searching for someone, but attacks all who 
cannot prove their nobility to it by answering three questions. Can the 
characters drive the dragon off, and should they even attempt to do so? 
A Prodigal falls in love with one of the noble characters. Is the love 
true? Will the noble risk his title and station for his love? Can a Kithain ever 
truly love a Prodigal (or even a normal mortal)? 
Can the area survive the effects of hosting the pooka prank festival? 


Calling Upon the Wyrd 
Cantrip Casting 153 
D 
Cast 216 
Damage 
Courts 21 
Cover 175 
176 
Examples of 158 
Ambiance and Mood 208 Challenges 161 
Actual 168 
Adjudication 164 
Chimerical 167 
Initial Bid 162 
Dauntain 30 
Negative Traits 164 
Order of 169 
Using Traits 162 
Dross 83 
Dolorous Blow 179 
Dreaming, The 27 
Chronos 130 
Dream Craft 132 
Changeling: The Dream- 
Enchanted Stroke 183 
Enchanted World 18 
Enchantment 183 
Character 12, 35 
Character Creation 35 
Epiphany 189 
Advantages 76 
Escheat 27 
Arts and Realms 82 
Attributes 67 
Handing Out 118 
Backgrounds 85 
Using 117 
Banality 84 
Chart 35 
F 
Choosing Abilities 76 
Choosing Traits 68 
Dreamers 87 
Example Character 
Influence 88 
Glamour 82 
E~~~~~~~~~ 117 
Attributes 67, 69 
Autumn People 30 
Fair Escape 197 
Frailties 19 
Freeholds 25 
Sheet 123 
G 
Health 100 
Gerald Manley Hopkins 
Houses 44 
reference 28 
Legacies 36 
Systems 176 
Negative Traits 100 
Seeming 47 
Grumps 50 
Spark of Life 101 
Storytelling 218 
Willpower 83 
Healing 167 
Political Connections 
Inspiration 36 
Glamour 23, 82 
Remembrance 87 
Merits and Flaws 102 
Uses of 82 
Gross Overstatement 13 
H 
Health 100, 166 
Houses 44 
Chimera 18 
Creation of 177 
Chimerical Death 178 
Treatment of 182 


I 
Influence Charts 9 1 
Influences 9 1 
XmeLimits 92 
K 
Kith 19, 50 
Boggans 51 
Clurichaun 5 1 
Eshu 53 
Ghille Dhu 54 
Nockers 56 
Pooka 57 
Redcaps 59 
Satyrs 60 
Selkies 61 
Sidhe 63 
Sluagh 64 
Trolls 66 
L 
Legacies 36 
Seelie 38 
Unseelie 41 
Lexicon 31 
M 
Mages 30 
Merits and Flaws 102 
Aptitudes 103 
Awareness 103 
Changeling Ties 104 
Mental 105 
Mortal Society 106 
Personality 114 
Physical 107 
Supernatural 109 
Mind’s Eye Theatre 11 
Mists 179 
Mob Scene 168 
Mood 200 
Mortals 30 
Musing Thresholds 191 
N 
Narrators 13 
Negative Traits 100, 164 
Usea of 100 
Nunnehi 48 
0 
Oaths 185 
Off-Line Gaming 215 
Overbidding 165 
P 
Plot 213, 217 
Prodigals 29 
Props 13, 210 
R 
Rapture 192 
Ravaging 193 
Ravaging Thresholds 
193, 194 
Realms 82, 126, 151 
Actor 151 
Fae 151 
Nature 151 
Prop 152 
Scene 152 
Time 153 
Resolution 2 15 
Resolving Arguments 227 w 
Pacing 225 
Pre-Game Tasks 220 
Rescue Strategies 226 
Trouble 203 
Working with Narrators 
224 
Subplots 217 
Surprise 170 
T 
Testing 162 
Thallain 22 
Theme 200 
Time 161 
Tokens 82 
Traits 68 
Mental 73 
Negative Mental 75 
Negative Physical 70 
Negative Social 73 
Physical 69 
Social 71 
V 
Vampires 29 
Reverie 189 
Rhapsody 195 
Rock-Paper-Scissors 163 
Rules 9 
S 
Scale 215 
Scope 216 
Seasons 28 
Seemings 20, 47 
Setting 200, 207 
Shadow Court 22 
Shields 174 
Simple Tests 166 
Society 25 
Static Challenges 165 
Story Ideas 228 
Storyteller 13 
Storytelling 11, 199 
Interacting with Players 
223 
Weapons 170 
Bidding Traits with 17 1 
Etiquette of 174 
Examples 171 
Werewolves 29 
Wilders 49 
Willpower 83 
Uses of 83 
World of Darkness 14 
History 16 
Wraiths 30 


BackgRounds 
social TRaizs 


A 
m 5 
'T).reRt's still magic in the U]orzld 
Hidden iin plain sight is <I world of Glamour and enchantment. 
The Fair Folk still walk the earth, though they wrap theinselves 
in mortal shells for fex of cold disbelief. Elfin courts still ride 
out under moonlight, dreams of dragons still lurk in sh,dows, 
and the inonster under the bed is very, very real - 
t o  the right 
people. People with faei ie souh People like you. 
you Just: Have m Knoru UlheRe m Look 
Welcoine to the world of -'The 
the dreams ,*re red. Contained in 'Ihe Shhhg Host is everything 
you need to hi ing the magic and iiiystery of C&ang&g 
into a live 
action setting. From chiiner,i to cmtrips, satyi debauchers to sidhe 
nobles, they're all in here. And they're w,iitiing for you. 
. hut now 
DoniDRearn It - 1& the ORearn 
'1 I
, 
WW5009 
15.00US 
5 1 5 0 0  
7 
2 781565 045101 I 
I
