Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Arise, sons and Dauqhters of c 
Some claim the Final Nights, told of in hoary prophecies and dre 
whispers, have finally come to pass. Everywhere, the signs and porte 
are loosed upon the land. And with them, the Sabbat wages its 
assaults upon the Camarilla cities. Are they simply monsters who g 
in the fear and violence of the coming night? Or do their monst 
hide something far deeper and far more unexpected? 
NO Merc , NO surrender, NO FXC 
The Sabbat Gui B 
e reveals the Cainites' most brutal sect in 
glory. Here is the updated information regarding the sect's fort 
Final Nights, the bloody victories and appalling developments. 
new information for creating Sabbat characters and about the 
innermost workings. Here Storytellers may find new material 
war machine against the Antediluvians and how to create stor 
nightly sieges. 
I
-
 
I
I S B N  1 ~ 5 6  5 0 4 -  7 3 2 - X  
W W 5 0 1 8  $ 1 4 . 9 5  U . S .  
5 1  4 9 5  
9 781565 047327 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CREDITS 
Written by: Justin Achilli, Bruce Baugh, Clayton Oliver, Ree Soesbee 
Developed by: ' Cynthia Summers 
Edited by: Rich Ruane 
Previously published material has appeared in: Laws of the Night, 
MET: The Camarilla Guide, The Guide to the Sabbat, 
Art direction by: Aaron Voss 
Art by: Laura Robles 
Front and back cover design by:Aaron Voss 
Layout and typesetting by:Aaron Voss 
Playtesters: Matthew Skipper, Brett Murphy, Richard Stratton 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
ONE: REC 
CHAPTER 
Two: CAINE’S 
CHAPTER 
EWE: 
CHAPTER 
SIX: MI 
CHAPTER 
SEVEN: URBAN 
L E ~ E N D S  
182 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ABANDON 
ALL Hop€, 
YF WHO FNTFR 
HERE 
The Final Nights are strange and terrible times for the Sabbat. They hurl 
themselves at the strongholds of their enemies, the Camarilla, with a ferocity 
that belies the desperation beneath. These are the nights that have been 
whispered of in the prophecies of the Book ofNod. This has been foreseen as 
the end times. And worst of all, their most terrible fears - 
of the hunger of 
the Antediluvians and the horror of Gehenna - 
would seem to be finally 
borne out. 
Racked from within by fractious sect politics and beset from without by 
enemies of all stripes, the Sabbat pits itself in direct opposition to the 
Camarilla. There is no Masquerade here, no cowering from mortals who are fit 
only for service or food, no boot-licking to elders who haven’t earned the 
respect they believe due them. The Sabbat’s children revel in their vampiric 
natures, believing full well that vampires are meant to rule the night as the 
ultimate predators. Even as it battles the Camarilla for territory and the hearts 
of young vampires who chafe under the elders’ talons, the sect glories in being 
the best monster it can be. 
Prophecy and the crumbling strength of the Camarilla would seem to be 
on their side. If these are indeed the Final Nights, and the time of darkness 
approaches, the Sabbat should celebrate, but they instead fight with all the 
strength they can muster. It is precisely because prophecy and fears are at last 
coming to light that the sect fears the approach of the end times, and why it 
calls on its strength to the last vampire. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


WHATTHIS 
BOOK Is (AND ISN’T) 
This book details the innermost workings of the monstrous Sabbat. From 
their rituals to the strange Disciplines their members command, from the 
ghastly revenant families to the workings of the antitribu, here all is revealed. 
What you have in your hands is not meant to be a stand-alone volume. 
There’s a lot in the original Laws of the Night that you’ll need to play Sabbat 
(such as character creation, Disciplines and the basic rules). Other items, such 
as the elder levels of Disciplines such as Auspex or Obfuscate, are found in The 
Camarilla Guide. You may also find the tabletop Guide to the Sabbat handy 
for more information regarding the sect’s history and internal chemistry. 
A ERIFNDLY WARNINC~ 
Repeat after me: ‘‘I am not a vampire. I am not a bloodthirsty creature of 
the night. I do not have supernatural powers. If I ever start to confuse the 
boundaries of the game and real life, I will put down the game and not endanger 
other people.” Repeat this until you believe it. 
Consider this the official “You’re not a vampire - 
behave yourself” 
warning. There may not be an Inquisition, but there are certainly mortals out 
there who will hunt you down if you start believing your own propaganda - 
they’re called teachers, police officers, clergy and parents, and White Wolf 
supports them heartily. The major rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre are more 
important than ever when playing a Sabbat chronicle. It can be exciting and 
more than a little scary to delve into the dark parts of your psyche; the problem 
is when art and life start blurring too much. 
The abyss is definitely looking back at you. Don’t get out of hand. 
WELCOME 
TO THE EAMILY 
Welcome to the Sabbat. Described as an apocalyptic blood cult, a coven 
of death-obsessed leeches, crusaders fighting an endless civil war and a hodge- 
podge of blood-drinking psychotics, the Sabbat is all of this and more. 
For the Sabbat, to be a vampire means being a weapon in the Great Jyhad, 
an unending holy war on the ancient, cannibalistic monsters who passed on 
the Curse of Caine during the Biblical nights. The Antediluvians - 
and their 
mindless servants in the Camarilla - 
seek to bring about the end of the world 
and destroy the race of Cainites. The Sabbat rages against this fate; they have 
better things to do than die at the fangs of their bloodthirsty sires. The world 
belongs to them, not to the ancient evil that sleeps beneath the land. 
The Great Jyhad is a matter of the sect against the world. Although the 
members of the Sword of Caine aren’t above internecine intrigue, blatant 
rivalry or treachery, in the end the Sabbat must come first. Martyrs and zealots, 
the Sabbat’s children hurl themselves fangs-first at their enemies, falling upon 
on their foes in scores and rending them like a pack of wolves. It’s a no-holds- 
barred war, and rulership of the night is the prize. 
In truth, however, the sect is more than this. Though neither mindless 
fiends nor demonic apostates, vampires of the Sabbat do tread dangerously 
close to becoming such monsters. Having forsaken the ways of mortals, Sabbat 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


vampires understand that they are damned, creatures of the Beast. Rather than 
rail against their natures and pine for what they once were, they flaunt their 
monstrosity: They have become more than human, and are yet cursed for 
daring to move beyond the boundaries of the kine. 
Of course, this means the sect is as incestuously self-serving as any other 
group of ‘‘Kindred)) - 
a term of weakness among the Sons and Daughters of 
Caine. In the modem nights, the sect is racked with corruption, festering from 
within, yet denying its own collapse with a passion unmatched by other 
vampires anywhere. 
THE H I ~ H  
PRICE 
OE UNLIEE 
At a casual glance, the Sabbat would seem to be a haven for miscreants, 
thugs and cackling, self-indulgent deviants. Such is not the case. Indeed, 
nightly unlife for the Sabbat is so fraught with hellish peril that those members 
of the sect who are psychotic murderers and rapine blood-gluttons have 
become so to survive the incredible stresses they face. 
The Sabbat suffers no end of internal schisms. Elder members of the sect, 
hundreds of years old and perhaps even present at its formation over half a 
millennium ago, have radically different outlooks from the younger Sons and 
Daughters of Caine. Most young Sabbat have spent fewer than 25 years as 
Cainites. As such, the Sabbat is a fractious entity, divided from within and 
beset from without. The Sabbat does not generally have Cainites who are 
analogous to ancillae - 
the sect is comprised primarily of neonates, who do 
most of the nightly fighting and dirty work, and a handful of potent elders who 
have managed to turn the sect to their own ends by indoctrinating the young 
Cainites and convincing them to serve their whims. This isn’t to say that the 
elders don’t believe in the grand struggle, but rather that they observe it as it 
suits them. Elders of five centuries have too much at stake to risk fighting 
against the Antediluvians personally. Better to hurl a pack of howling 
neonates at their enemies and survive to continue the war on another night. 
Hypocrisy plays a great role in the Sabbat. The sect is simultaneously 
righteous and venal, spiritual and base, patriotic and selfish. A Sabbat Cainite 
may have no qualms about hunting and destroying a Camarilla Kindred for his 
oblivious service to the Ancients - 
but it may have to wait until after she’s 
finished gutting the mortal vessel who accidentally strayed across her path. 
Like a late-era Rome, the Sabbat has a strong, consistent philosophy that 
individual corruption all too often pushes aside. 
THE 
HISTORY 
OE THE SABBAT 
The sect’s history prior to the momentous Cainite event known as the 
Convention of Thorns is shrouded in mystery. Some Sabbat claim legacies of 
monstrosity and predation, wandering the Old World as a death cult. Others 
claim the sect never truly existed prior to the Anarch Revolt, and instead took 
the form of roving packs, not unlike the packs of the modem nights. Still others 
claim that the very name defines the sect’s origin - 
a loose confederation of 
witches and self-avowed monsters claiming servitude to Hell. 
Despite the conflicting theories as to the sect’s origin, one fact remains 
relatively reliable: The Sabbat came into being sometime after the Anarch 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Revolt. When the rebellious neonates of Clans Lasombra and Tzimisce 
destroyed their Antediluvians, the elders knew their iron rule had come to an 
end and that Cainite society would never be the same. 
After innumerable bloody skirmishes, the anarchs gained ground on their 
elders and sires. With the victory of the Tzimisce and Lasombra still fresh in 
many minds, Cainite struggles plagued Europe. Young vampires turned to open 
revolt, and elders met their ends nightly, sometimes taking their childer with 
them. Aided by the mercenary Assamite clan, the anarchs left no stone 
unturned in their war on the hated elders. Although no other clans managed 
to achieve the same success over their Ancients that the Tzimisce and 
Lasombra did, it wasn’t for lack of trying. 
As the bloodshed of the Anarch Revolt reached new heights, a critical 
mistake was made: Mortals discovered that monsters loomed in their midst. 
After a desperate appeal to Rome, humankind entreated the Pope to turn the 
Inquisition against the night-walkers and blood-drinkers that had sought to 
lord it over them for so long. Even more horrifying, the Church agreed, and the 
combined might of the witch-hunters added a new and terrifying dimension to 
the chaotic soup that were those nights. The war ground on, looking more and 
more like a stalemate. 
In the midst of this, certain powerful elder vampires, among them a 
Ventrue named Hardestadt (who had been believed to be the first elder to fall 
to the anarchs), chose to throw their lots together, believing that unity would 
give them the necessary strength. Under their combined might, the tide began 
to turn. Hardestadt and his collective, called the Camarilla, called for all 
“Kindred” to parley. In the English town of Thorns, the anarchs and the 
Camarilla sat down to a written accord, known as the Convention of Thorns. 
which promised to restore order and sanctity to the race of Cainites. 
Not every anarch gave up so easily, however. The treaty offered little to 
remedy the situation that had caused the strife in the first place. Furthermore, 
Clan Assamite suffered the brunt of punishment for the war. Enraged, a war 
party of anarchs and rogue Assamites rampaged through Thorns, leaving the 
town burning behind them. The sect that would become the Sabbat commit- 
ted itself to its immortal course of action that night. 
In the years that followed, the vampires of the newly formed Sabbat took 
their war against the Camarilla. The Inquisition continued to claim victims, 
and Cainites drew lines in the sand to mark their allegiances. The end result, 
though, was a guerrilla bloodbath. Puppet rulers fell, knightly orders crumbled, 
and havens burned like winter hearth-fires. 
With the discovery of the New World, the Sabbat saw a new empire for 
the taking, and the sect flourished while the Camarilla huddled in Europe. 
Soon, though, they faced opposition, as disenfranchised young Camarilla 
vampires arrived, hoping to carve out legacies for themselves away from the 
ironbound holdings of European elders. Before long, the Camarilla-Sabbat war 
had reached the shores of the Americas. 
Not long afterward, the Lasombra and Tzimisce fell to warring amongst 
themselves for the rapidly depleting resources of the New World. The 
continent was huge and underdeveloped, its cities few and far between, and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


rare was the Cainite who wished to attempt surviving in the wilds. Cities 
became commodities while the clans fought each other for the dwindling 
communities of kine that sustained their existence. During the struggle, the 
Camarilla quietly spread through the New World. By the time the Sabbat 
realized that they had been surrounded and, in fact, overtaken, it was too late. 
Sabbat vampires are nothing if not survivors, however, and despite the 
obstacles of the Camarilla’s encroachment, the sect persevered. Establishing 
strongholds in Canada (for which certain Sabbat vampires’ ties to the Native 
Americans proved immensely helpful) and Mexico (where impoverished 
conditions and corrupt governments allowed the society of the undead to 
flourish), the Sabbat effectively blocked in the Camarilla. 
Finally, now painfully aware that their actions had cost them more 
territory, the Sabbat vampires put their differences to rest... for a short time. 
Convening in New York, which the sect had managed to hold against all the 
best efforts of the Camarilla, high-ranking Sabbat reconsidered their commit- 
ment to the sect’s causes. Not content to merely sign a goodwill agreement as 
they had before, Sabbat vampires took a long, hard look at what was important 
to the Sword of Caine. An unheard-of congregation of Sabbat committed to 
document the Code of Milan, a collection of tenets that composed Sabbat 
ideology supposedly since the establishment of the sect. Additionally, the 
assembled vampires submitted a few addenda to bring the code up to date in 
light of recent affairs. 
DOCUMENTS 
OE IMPORT 
Although the Sabbat is predicated upon freedom and the Great Jyhad 
against the Antediluvians, politics inevitably find their way into the affairs of 
the Sword of Caine. Over the course of their existence, several important 
agreements have come to have meaning to the Cainites of the sect. The 
Convention of Thorns, which ended the Anarch Revolt, is seen by many 
Cainites as not only the article that resulted in the formation of the Camarilla, 
but also the Sabbat. The Purchase Pact enforced a previously inconceivable 
unity to the sect after one of its debilitating civil wars. The Code of Milan 
asserted what it meant to be Sabbat, and the responsibilities that the sect 
determined should accompany its freedoms. 
THE CONVENTION 
OE THORNS 
Many years have passed since the start of our current conflict, now called 
the Anarch Movement. Be it known that on this night of 23 October, 1493, 
the Jyhad has ended. The time for self-destruction is over. 
This concordat, bound in the Covenant of Caine by sacred vow, repre- 
sents anunyielding, vigilant truce between the Kindred known unto themselves 
as the Anarchs, the Clan Assamite, and the freestanding Kindred bound under 
the title of Camarilla. Henceforth, the parties shall be recognized by faction as 
the Anarchs, the Assamites, and the Camarilla. 
Each of the parties agrees to the responsibility of maintaining peace. Each 
shall lay its censures on any who breech or oppose this sacred Agreement. 
Accounting will be made of all parties for violations by them to either the letter 
or spirit of this Agreement. This document is binding under the social code of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


all Children of Caine by the accepted Lextalionis of all Cainites as it has passed 
through the ages. All Kindred are entreated to accept and gain solace from this 
peaceful accord. 
Be it known that the Anarchs will enjoin with the Camarilla as an 
accepted part, making it whole. Anarchs are expected to work peacefully to 
achieve their own ends. They must become defenders of all, and they shall 
receive full entitlement to all rights and privileges belonging to all Camarilla 
Kindred. All Anarchs shall be accepted back unto their elders and their 
formerly denounced clans without any fear of reprisal. Only the most vicious 
of atrocities shall not be forgiven. These shall stand written for the justicars to 
hear within one year, after which all allegations are no longer valid. All 
Anarchs shall reclaim all remaining and rightful property confiscated from 
them. In return they must turn over any war gains taken during the conflict by 
giving them to their sires or any recognized clan elder. 
Know also that if the Anarchs are further warred on, this open Jyhad 
invalidates their responsibility to maintain peace with their attacker. They 
may act freely without fear of reprisal from inactive members of the Camarilla. 
Anarchs are guaranteed the freedom to act as they please, short of breaching 
the Masquerade imposed for the protection of all Kindred from the kine. 
It is also noted that any member of any other self-proclaimed sect must 
openly declare this before his elders and renounce this relation. Failure to do 
so will result in the destruction of any deemed guilty. No Kindred may be sent 
knowingly to his death by an elder or sire, unless the security of clan or 
Camarilla outweighs the possible loss of unlife. 
From this night forward, the Assamites shall henceforth no longer commit 
diablerie on members of other clans. The Assamites must commit themselves 
to this acceptance by a mark of assurance placed on them in the form of a 
Thaumaturgical limitation. All members of the Assamites shall become 
unable to drink freely of the vitae of other Kindred from now unto forever. In 
addition, the Assamites shall pay the Brujah elders of Spain two thousand 
pounds of gold, in ransom of the five Assamite elders captured committing 
diablerie. Also, the Assamites may no longer participate in blood hunts. 
Be it also know that the Assamites are guaranteed complete independence 
from Camarilla demands. The Assamite fortress, Alamut, shall be free from 
further assaults. Assamites are also granted, out of respect for their beliefs, the 
freedom to commit diablerie within their own clan without restraint and the 
right to commit diablerie on all Kindred not recognized as holding membership 
within the Camarilla. 
It is rendered that all parties involved and all showing allegiance to any 
of these parties shall be held responsible for all aspects of this Convention 
brought forth here, in the neutral Kingdom of England, outside the hamlet of 
Thorns, near the town of Silchester. May Caine hold truth and peace for us all. 
Let it be know that forthwith, the Sabbat exists as a free entity, though the 
O n  this, the 19th of September, 1803, all Sabbat of good faith and 
TERMS 
OE THE PURCHASE 
PACT 
price of that freedom comes in the form of the sacrifice of certain rights. 
conscience do hereby suspend all grievances with other Sabbat. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Any Sabbat found in open violation of this agreement -e.g., 
any Sabbat 
making open war on another for the purposes of his own betterment at the 
expense of the sect - 
is hereby declared forsaken, and may be hunted for the 
blood in his veins. Such abandonment must be pronounced by a duly 
recognized bishop, archbishop or other elder member of the sect. 
In this we are united. In this we are Sabbat. 
Signed, 
Regent Gorchist 
Witnessed, 
Cardinal Radu Bistri 
Priscus Livia Boleslav Czernzy 
Archbishop Enrique Albertos Marquez 
Bishop Federic Montaigne 
THE 
CODE 
OP MILAN 
By the solemn word of Regent Gorchist, this is the one true Code of Milan, 
revised from the original manuscript this night, December 2 1,1933. Out of the 
ashes of our great war may this peace reign everlasting. 
An oath of allegiance has been sworn by the regent and the consistory in 
the presence of all faction leaders and 50 other witnesses to faithfully follow all 
regulations imposed by this code in leading the Sabbat. This revised Code of 
Milan is agreed on by all Sabbat factions, including those of Cardinals Huroff, 
Bruce de Guy, Agnes and Charles VI; and Archbishops Beatrice, Una, 
Tecumseh, Giangaleazzo, Toth, Aeron, Marsilio, Rebecca, Julian and Salluccio. 
All other factions must pledge themselves in support of this revised Code of 
Milan or claim separation from the Sabbat. 
These are the statutes comprising the Code of Milan: 
I. 
The Sabbat shall remain united in its support of the sect’s regent. If 
necessary, a new regent shall be elected. The regent shall support relief from 
tyranny, granting all Sabbat freedom. 
11. All Sabbat shall do their best to serve their leaders as long as said 
leaders serve the will of the regent. 
111. All Sabbat shall faithfully observe all the uuctoritas rim. 
IV. All Sabbat shall keep their word of honor to one another. 
V. All Sabbat shall treat their peers fairly and equally, upholding the 
strength and unity of the Sabbat. If necessary, they shall provide for the needs 
of their brethren. 
VI. All Sabbat must put the good of the sect and the race of Cainites 
before their own personal needs, despite all costs. 
VII. Those who are not honorable under this code will be considered less 
than equal and therefore unworthy of assistance. 
VIII. As it has always been, so shall it always be. The Lextalionis shall be 
the model for undying justice by which all Sabbat shall abide. 
IX. All Sabbat shall protect one another from the enemies of the sect. 
Personal enemies shall remain a personal responsibility, unless they under- 
mine sect security. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


X. All sect members shall protect Sabbat territory from all other powers. 
XI. The spirit of freedom shall be the fundamental principle of the sect. 
XII. The R i m  of Monomacy shall be used to settle disputes among all 
XIII. All Sabbat shall support the Black Hand. 
Addenda to the Code of Milan 
Observed by all witnessing parties present on this night, December 2 1, 
1933, and hereafter upheld. 
XIV. All Sabbat have the right to monitor the behavior and activities of 
their fellow sect members in order to maintain freedom and security. 
XV.All Sabbat possess the right to call a council of their peers and 
immediate leaders. 
XVI. All Sabbat shall act against sect members who use the powers and 
authority the Sabbat has given them for personal gain at the expense of the 
Sabbat. Action shall be taken only through accepted means, approved by a 
quorum of prisci. 
All Sabbat shall expect and demand freedom from their leaders. 
Sabbat. 
MODERN 
N I ~ H T S  
Some say the Sabbat has matured remarkably in the intervening years. 
Indeed, it has become a force to be reckoned with, claiming or reclaiming cities 
long held by the Camarilla and using sieges and crusades with deadly effi- 
ciency. This singularity of vision seems to have overcome at least a modicum 
of the sect’s disorganization. Additionally, the sect as a whole is considerably 
younger than the Camarilla, able to adopt modern technology with a speed 
that terrifies its stodgy counterpart. Whatever the reason, the sect has scored 
some astounding coups and become a legitimate contender for the Camarilla’s 
eroding power. 
Not surprisingly, the Sabbat exercises a great deal of influence over Third 
World nations and the most squalid cities of the world. There, amid the hives 
of homeless and faceless juicebags, Sabbat vampires feed with impunity and 
build their own private empires. In modernized parts of the world, the Sabbat 
is careful to cover its tracks. While scorning the Masquerade of the Camarilla 
(at least in theory, if not in practice), the Sabbat’s leadership realizes that the 
threat of organized and technologically advanced human resistance is too 
dangerous to provoke. Thus, in cities of Europe and North America, the 
Sabbat takes some pains to cover its tracks, though its methods- intimidation 
and murder - 
are far cruder than the (usually) subtle machinations of the 
Camarilla. With its limited contact in mortal circles, the Sabbat suffers in 
modem cities; for now, the Camarilla’s influence in many human institutions 
remains one of their greatest banes. 
NORTH 
AMERICA 
Canada and the United States are perhaps the most successful staging 
ground for the Sabbat. The sect has recently redoubled its efforts along the East 
Coast of the United States, solidifying its dominance in Miami, Washington 
DC, Baltimore, Philadelphia and Atlantic City. Likewise, Detroit, Mexico 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


City and Montreal have become ever more important jewels in the sect’s 
crown. Concerned Sabbat see these cities as paper tigers, however, as the sect’s 
former supremacy in New York City eroded completely after a successful 
Camarilla coup. Supporters of the war movement hasten to note that the cities 
of Atlanta, Richmond, Boston and Raleigh-Durham have recently fallen or 
are in serious contention. Nightly, the sect tightens its grip on the Midwestern 
states, hoping to crack the Camarilla like a nut between the combined might 
of Mexico and the East Coast territories. 
SOUTH 
AMERICA 
In a continent overrun with feudal, balkanized vampiric domains, the 
Sabbat holds only limited sway. Most of the Cainites of South America support 
private domains backed up by small coteries of influential allies. Although 
major cities are always prime targets for the Sabbat, the economics of South 
American countries do not hold the appeal of North America and Europe, so 
they are often considered secondary targets due to their combined lack of 
financial power and (incorrectly) importance to the Jyhad. In fact, the neutral 
attitudes of South America make many of the cities a perfect middle ground 
for meetings with members of other sects or organizations. When a Camarilla 
or independent vampire needs to make arrangements with the Sabbat, it’s as 
likely as not to happen here, often rubbing elbows with war criminals, 
expatriates and other exiles of the mortal world. Sabbat vampires in South 
America are disorganized and fractious. The cities are largely independent, 
and the given presence of Sabbat in any city is usually limited to a single pack. 
As the home of the elders of the Camarilla and the birthplace of the 
Sabbat, Europe is prime ground for the sect’s more subtle warfare. Here, the 
Sabbat still fights to overthrow the decrepit “Kindred” of latter nights. 
Unfortunately, the presence of many powerful and paranoid elders makes it 
difficult at best to besiege cities, and the Camarilla is quick with retribution 
against any perceived attack. As aresult, the Sabbat has only limited influence 
in Europe, primarily in Spain and Italy where the Lasombra clan still holds its 
traditional sway. 
Many of the Sabbat in Europe are quite old; indeed, some vampires 
claiming to have been involved in the fabled Anarch Revolt still give counsel 
in the Europeannations. As aresult, upward mobility in the sect is limited here. 
Despite the Sabbat’s rallying cries of freedom and equality, young European 
Cainites chafe at finding themselves unable to rise in position because older 
and more cunning vampires already hold the reins of power. Eastern Europe, 
with the Russian territories and the former Ottoman provinces, is almost a 
separate continent as far as vampires are concerned. Here, the hoary Tzimisce 
ply the ancient ways of their clan, some even still existing as feudal overlords 
ruling from crumbling castles. Sabbat vampires of the Old World generally 
look on their compatriots in the Americas with disdain, often considering 
them crude and barbaric. 
€UROPE 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


AERICA 
AND THE MIDDLE 
FAST 
With the fierce rivalry between the Followers of Set and the Serpents of 
the Light, Africa does occupy some of the Sabbat’s attention. However, the 
Setites remain too deeply entrenched in their homeland for the Sabbat to 
confront them effectively. The Middle East, encompassing northern parts of 
Africa and some Far Eastern sections of Europe, is an exception to the Sabbat’s 
otherwise minimal presence in the Dark Continent. As the traditional home 
of the Assamites, countries like Turkey and Saudi Arabia are fortifications of 
strength for the Black Hand. The shifting allegiances of religious factions also 
make fertile ground for recruitment; once the Blood has become involved, it 
is often a simple matter to turn fervent loyalty from a holy mortal cause to an 
unholy immortal one. 
AUSTRALIA 
As a marginally independent territory, the Sabbat finds Australia frustrat- 
ing. The princes of the area either pay lip service to the Camarilla or hold 
completely independent cities. Consequently, the Sabbat has pushed its 
attacks on Australia, as evidenced by rising crime and political unrest. 
Without reinforcements from outside, the cities of Australia may soon fall to 
the Sabbat presence, but many major outposts - 
Sydney and Melbourne in 
particular - 
remain remarkably free of Sabbat influence. 
ASIA 
The Far East remains shrouded in mystery to the Sabbat. The native 
vampires have little or no interest in contact or cooperation, and none seem 
to fear the Antediluvians. Even when using the underground smugglers who 
deign to transport Cainites (albeit at ridiculously high prices), the Sabbat finds 
itself balked by the enigmatic locals and their disdain for the sect’s ruthless 
nature. Because of Asia’s huge mortal population (primarily in China and 
India) and financial markets (Japan and Korea), the Sabbat is quite interested 
in establishing power in this region. Aside from a single agent in Hong Kong 
and a pack in Tokyo, though, there are no active Sabbat in Asia. All attempts 
to gain ground in the region have failed miserably, with agents disappearing or 
dying before achieving any goals. Direct assaults with large packs of cannon 
fodder meet horrible ends as Cathayans seem to melt out of the shadows and 
overwhelm them with powers never seen before. Asia is a deathtrap for the 
Sabbat, and the sect seethes with frustration at these failures. 
THE 
STRUCTURE 
OE THE SWORD 
OE CAINE 
Although it is sometimes difficult to distinguish from the outside, the 
Sabbat observes an organized hierarchy. The sect has leaders and followers, as 
it must to be anything other than an anarchic mob. 
Like any philosophical gathering of vampires, the Sabbat is not ruled so 
much as it is led. Even the most august Cainites of the sect do what they do out 
of devotion to the Great Jyhad. Leadership among the Sword of Caine, 
however, is a capricious thing. At the higher echelons, Sabbat vampires tend 
to lose touch with the young Cainites who make their lofty positions possible. 
At lower levels of the organization, a ductus’ or priest’s decisions sometimes 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


have more meaning than those of a city’s archbishop. In the end, the Sabbat’s 
rabid self-sufficiency damns it as the disorganization endemic to a sect sworn 
to uphold freedom prevents it from maintaining consistency. 
Despite their seemingly fanatical devotion to the sect, members of the 
Sabbat are individuals first and foremost. Sabbat vampires struggle with the 
same problems as the other undead. Hunters, fellow Cainites, the mysterious 
other creatures who stalk the night and even savvy kine who catch on to a 
vampire’s depredations all conspire against the Sabbat as violently as they 
would any other threat. Although they scoff at labeling it thus, the vampires 
of the Sabbat maintain a necessary “Masquerade”; the sect isn’t stupid, and its 
leaders know that they cannot achieve success if the sect falls to its enemies 
before it can muster for the Great Jyhad. 
In response to the need for stability, the Sabbat supports specific titles and 
positions to serve its interests. Any vampire who has managed to acquire one 
likely has the power, in one form or another, to support the claim. The Cainites 
of the Sabbat also remember slights as vividly as any Camarilla harpy or anarch 
dissident - 
intra-sect politics are no less vicious than those of the Camarilla 
even though the Sabbat pretends to be above such petty matters. Cainites at 
various stations almost universally owe some fellow Sabbat favors, nurse 
rivalries with others and manipulate all the resources at their disposal toward 
making things difficult for their foes while gaining (or erasing) debts sworn to 
others. 
The Sabbat respects these offices, by and large. In theory, this organization 
provides a foundation for the sect - 
the hierarchy is supposedly one based on 
merit and achievement. In practice, however, the structure is only as strong as 
its weakest member. Vain elders sometimes demand near fealty from the 
Cainites below them, and young Cainites rankle within the hierarchy of a sect 
that claims to revile such things. The Sabbat may well be its own greatest 
enemy as many of the battles take place in the cold hearts and devious minds 
of the sect’s members. 
THE 
REC~BNT 
The regent of the Sabbat supposedly coordinates the master plan of the 
sect, much like a mortal dictator or corporate president. Supported by a 
consistory of other powerfulvampires, the regent holds little sway over the sect 
as a whole, however. Young Sabbat often make a big show of rejecting this 
hypocritical figure of authority as elder Sabbat flout her rule for their own 
personal gain. In the end, the regent may demand service, fealty and respect, 
but she had best be able to back it up as the Sabbat has no lack of wide-eyed 
megalomaniacs who would not hesitate to usurp the position for themselves. 
THE 
CARDINALS 
Cardinals have the responsibility of handling sect interests over large 
geographical regions. Archbishops report directly to them and are, according 
to the hierarchy, responsible to them. Also, cardinals coordinate the Sabbat 
in their own cities - 
a city in which a cardinal makes his haven sometimes 
does not have an archbishop or bishop. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


T H E  PRISCI 
As advisors, sages and chamberlains to the Sabbat, the prisci make up the 
majority of the consistory, the “cabinet” that assists the regent in matters ofwar 
and policy. The title carries no temporal power; these Sabbat are not enforcers 
or warlords. Rather, the prisci offer their unique insight to other members of 
the sect, particularly the regent, cardinals and archbishops. 
THE 
ARCHBISHOPS 
Archbishops handle the administration of Cainite affairs in individual 
cities, often by wielding this title as preeminent in the city. Most often 
appointed by cardinals, archbishops bear the responsibility for all vampires 
underneath them, and they must see to the support of the city in the Sabbat’s 
best interests. Of course, the Sabbat’s best interests are not necessarily the best 
interests of the mortals of a given city - 
indeed, they’re often quite at odds. 
Thus, the archbishop’s position is one of balance: He must keep the city 
hospitable to the Sabbat and yet prevent it from becoming a wasteland by 
allowing the local Cainites to abuse it at their whim. 
THE BISHOPS 
Not every Sabbat city has an archbishop to oversee the Cainite concern. 
Those that don’t typically host a council of three to five bishops, depending on 
the city’s size. Like the archbishops, bishops maintain Sabbat influence in their 
cities. Likewise, they lead the spiritual growth of the vampires therein. 
THE DUCTI 
As leaders of individual packs, the ducti attend to the operational matters 
of their packmates. The title of ductus is a loose distinction, recognizing the 
most accomplished member of a pack. They work closely with pack priests to 
coordinate attacks, grow sect and pack influence and act as liaisons to the 
bishops and archbishops. 
THE PRIESTS 
Priests are charged with the spiritual growth of their packmates. Many 
priests hail from Clan Tzimisce, but anyone of any clan may become a priest 
with the proper instruction. As the ductus’ second-in-command, the pack 
priest conducts all of the pack’s rim and sometimes creates a few that are 
unique to it. All packs have a priest; some rare large packs even have two. 
Should the ductus be eliminated, the priest becomes the pack leader pro tern, 
until a bishop or archbishop (or in some cases, the pack itself) appoints a new 
leader. 
THE 
TEMPLARS 
Sometimes known as paladins, the templars are bodyguards appointed by 
a bishop or greater Sabbat. Although they have no formal organization, 
gaining the title of templar is a great honor for a Cainite. It conveys the obvious 
favor of a sect leader, makes the individual a symbol of strength in the Sabbat 
and endorses her fighting skills. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TRUE 
SABBAT 
As the most populous group of Sabbat, the True Sabbat are members of the 
sect who have proven themselves to their sires, packs or superiors and earned 
the privilege of continued existence and service to the sect. Once a Cainite has 
received her Creation Rite, she is considered True Sabbat. 
THE CLANS 
AND THE ANTITRIBU 
While the Sabbat may have fewer members than its rival sect, the 
Camarilla, those Cainites hail from a greater variety of clans. In nights past, 
Clans Lasombra and Tzimisce made up the majority of the sect. In the modem 
nights, though, mass Embraces and new groups joining the sect have skewed 
those numbers a bit. While the Lasombra and Tzimisce still maintain some 
numerical superiority, the antitribu or “anti+clans” have certainly come into 
their own. 
These antitribu have turned away from the clans into which they were 
originally Embraced. Most have no love for their parent clans - 
the antitribu 
went their own way, and few harbor any illusions of future reconciliation, 
particularly with Gehenna imminent. In most cases, the reasons for the clan 
schisms have been lost to centuries of ill will, and few Cainites bear such 
resentment as do the antitribu for their progenitors. 
More information on them appears in Chapter Two (with the exception 
of the Tzimisce and Lasombra, who are covered in Laws of the Night). 
EACTIONS OE THE SABBAT 
The Sabbat is hardly a unified entity, as its history, cosmopolitan makeup 
and penchant for personal freedom illustrates. The sect is home to numerous 
splinter groups who have united under the Sabbat’s banner to achieve their 
own ends (which sometimes correspond with those of the sect) or to direct the 
greater body of the sect. In the chaos of the Sabbat, it is not unlikely to find 
members of these factions among the packs, though by no means does every 
member of the Sabbat support a faction - 
most simply support the Sword of 
Caine itself. Nonetheless, these factions claim a great number of members, and 
some have become integral to the existence of the Sabbat itself. 
THE 
BLACK 
HAND 
The Black Hand is best described as a sect within a sect; a unique group 
of vampires distinct from all other Sabbat. The Black Hand (also known simply 
as the Hand or, less frequently, the manus nigrum) is not a wholly independent 
sect, however, as all Hand members are also loyal members of the Sabbat. The 
Black Hand consists of vampires of many different clans, but it draws most of 
its membership from the Assamite and Gangrel antitribu. It also includes many 
militant vampires, for whom clan is often a tertiary concern at best, as they 
pursue the Sabbat’s ideal of freedom. 
Conceived as aspecialmilitia, the Black Hand is, at its simplest, amilitary 
force at the disposal of Sabbat leaders. Like a true army, the Hand specializes 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


in numerous aspects of warfare, from intrigue and intelligence to assassination 
to outright physical combat. The Black Hand seldom remains active for any 
long period of time, instead sending small, focused units or packs to attend to 
the issue at hand. Indeed, very few vampires can even remember a time when 
the whole of the Hand acted simultaneously at all. Sabbat elders seem to prefer 
this arrangement, and some secretly fear that this sect-within-a-sect would 
attempt a coup if kept active for too long. Throughout its history, however, the 
Black Hand has always served the Sabbat with unwavering loyalty. Many 
Sabbat credit the Black Hand with the cohesion of the sect through difficult 
times. Indeed, the Black Hand remained solvent during two Sabbat civil wars, 
enabling the sect to maintain influence in cities that would have otherwise 
fallen to the Camarilla. 
Members of the Black Hand bear a distinguishing mark - 
the faction 
brands its members with a permanent, mystical sigil on the palms of their right 
hands. Once the vampire receives this mark, she has become a true member of 
the Black Hand and must heed the group’s call whenever she receives it. 
Although members may conceal the brand (which spies for the group often do 
to keep from revealing themselves), they may never remove it. Membership in 
the Black Hand lasts until the vampire meets her Final Death. 
THE 
SABBAT 
INQUISITION 
Taking its cue from the mortal Spanish Inquisition, the Sabbat Inquisi- 
tion is a political faction charged with rooting out heretics and infernalists. Of 
course, the faction resembles the mortal Inquisition in other ways as well: If it 
labels someone an infernalist, the accusation is unlikely to be denied, and the 
faction makes a practice of using similarly torturous tactics. As it possesses the 
power to depose bishops, archbishops, pack priests and ducti, the Sabbat 
Inquisition is a political entity as well. It stands on the cusp of becoming a 
political tool, but has yet to do so, largely because its members are devout in 
their duties and respond poorly to attempts at manipulation. 
The Sabbat Inquisition has recently doubled in size, from 15 to 30 
members, largely owing to its success. All members of the Inquisition are 
respected and trusted (and powerful ...) members of the Sabbat. Cells of 
Inquisitors travel to all Sabbat-held territories, presiding over trials and 
deliveringpunishments against accused Sabbat. Despite its success in exposing 
infemalists, however, the Inquisition has acquired a reputation for cruelty, no 
mean feat among those who willingly label themselves monsters. 
The Inquisition has unprecedented power, able to move and accuse as it 
will. Nomadic Inquisitors usually travel in groups of five, accompanied by a pair 
of templars. Although their success leaves the Sabbat better for its interfer- 
ence, the Inquisition has made few friends. Many bishops and archbishops 
resent the Inquisition’s presence, as the Inquisitors tend to disrupt the usual 
affairs of the sect and dig up dirt on all Cainites in a given city. Rumors claiming 
antagonism between the Black Hand and the Inquisition rise and circulate 
with alarming frequency. The Sabbat expressly forbids members of one faction 
from joining the other, and some suspect this rivalry has resulted from the 
Inquisition’s recent successes coupled with growing complaints of the Hand’s 
impotence. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE 
LOYALISTS 
The Loyalist faction claims that it is the legacy of the “true” Sabbat, those 
vampires who shook off the yoke of their elders and seized their freedom for 
themselves. Other Sabbat tend to dismiss Loyalists as anarchists, sociopaths 
and spoiled childer who want the benefits of the Curse of Caine without the 
responsibilities. 
The Loyalists’ philosophy is simple: Each vampire is her own master. The 
freedom to do as one wills belongs to each vampire, whether she wants to 
destroy the Antediluvians or go on a rampage through a suburban mall. In 
practice, few Loyalists stoop to such recklessness as they know local law 
enforcement would hunt them down, most likely at the behest of other 
vampires who actually value their secrecy. 
The night no longer belongs to the Sabbat, Loyalists contend. Sect is 
irrelevant given the modem state of affairs; Sabbat packs are as powerless as 
Camarilla neonates or rabid anarchs because of the apathy and antagonism of 
their elders. As the original anarchs and antitriibu did in the nights of the 
Anarch Revolt, Loyalists do what they do because they believe they must. 
Loyalists accept anyone into their ranks, and they have no codes or secret 
rituals to identify themselves to one another. 
LESSER 
#ACTIONS 
Smaller in power and number, lesser factions exist among the Sabbat to 
help the sect and themselves. These lesser factions come and go, springing up 
almost overnight and then falling out of favor or being wiped out in some 
grandiose but doomed war effort. Some of the longer-standing intra-Sabbat 
factions include the following. 
THE 
STATUS Quo 
As their name suggests, things are good enough for the Status Quo. Made 
up primarily of Lasombra, Tzimisce and key members of the Black Hand, the 
Status Quo accepts the nature of vampires and knows that change is relatively 
impossible. The Great Jyhad continues, for better or worse, and shaking the 
foundations of the Sabbat serves only to distract it from its greater goal. The 
Status Quo does not want to increase the authoritarianism of the sect - 
its 
members aren’t after hoarding power for themselves because it promotes 
rebellion in the lower ranks. At the same time, increasingly unreasonable 
demands from overly vociferous Loyalists and concerned Moderates serve only 
to agitate other members of the sect, and a compromise must be struck. 
MODERATES 
The Moderates oppose what they see as increasing rigidity intruding into 
the sect. Edicts such as the Purchase Pact and the revised Code of Milan limit 
the rights of individual Sabbat for the good of a few. While not as vehement 
as the Loyalists, Moderates nonetheless oppose the encroachment of “rules and 
guidelines” that have no place among such creatures as vampires. The faction 
rests between Loyalist dogma and Status Quo conservatism, acknowledging 
the need for order and structure, but not adherence to arbitrary codes that offer 
no benefit to offset their inconvenience. Moderates generally oppose sieges 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and crusades (though they usually follow orders), and they do not hesitate to 
question those in charge if an order seems foolish or reckless. 
ULTRA-CONSERVATIVES 
Predictably composed of the eldest members of the Sabbat, most of whom 
belong to Clans Lasombra and Tzimisce, the Ultra-Conservatives favor 
centralization and authoritarianism, hoping to turn the Sabbat into a military 
force against the Antediluvians and the Camarilla. The time for freedom is 
over, claim the Ultra-Conservatives. Gehenna looms around the comer, and 
it’s time to stabilize the Sabbat, lest it fail utterly. Ultra-Conservatives favor 
strong leaders and Monomacy, ritually removing weak leaders through duels. 
The Black Hand seems to be slowly leaning toward support of the Ultra- 
conservatives, but it remains characteristically quiet when confronted with 
the issue. 
OLD WORLD TZIMISCE 
Not every Tzimisce supports the Sabbat wholeheartedly. Indeed, when it 
comes to the arcane Tzimisce of the Old World, few support it at all. Of course, 
aligning oneself against the Sabbat is a good way to end up facing down a pack 
of self-important rabble who want to strike at the elders for the good of the 
Sabbat and all that rubbish, so it’s often easier to join the society yet abstain 
from its meetings. Most keep to themselves, maintaining castles on ancestral 
lands like voivodes of old. 
THE ORDER 
OE ST. BLAISE 
In Europe during the 14th century, the Church established an auxiliary of 
14 saints to protect the plagued masses. One of the 14, St. Blaise, was known 
for his ability to heal throat maladies. It became wide practice during this time 
that devotees would have their throats blessed by a pair of crossed candles on 
February third. Cainites active in the Church found it particularly ironic that 
those same blessed throats would provide a sacred meal for vampires. Vampires 
of the Order of St. Blaise lead dangerous unlives, integrating themselves into 
the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church. Through careful manipulation 
of Church resources and “good works” done at the community level, members 
of the order influence aspects of their cities in ways most Sabbat traditionally 
neglect. By establishing herds in soup kitchens and exempting certain build- 
ings from tax status, the Order of St. Blaise expands the Sabbat’s power locally. 
Indeed, most Sabbat cities, rife with murder, rape and skyrocketing crime rates, 
see an increase in Church attendance, brought about by desperate mortals’ 
attempts to find any salvation they can in the World of Darkness. 
CHILDREN 
OE THE DRACON 
A bizarre knightly order of Tzimisce vampires, the Children of the Dracon 
seem to bear more Hellenic features than the Slavic heritage of Clan Tzimisce 
suggests. The Children seem to be a cultural division, almost a bloodline, but 
the distinction is more artificial than a true deviation in the vitae. The exact 
agenda of the Children of the Dracon is unknown, but they seem to be at 
intellectual odds with the rest of the Tzimisce. Perhaps this is due to some past 
transgression, or perhaps it lies in the difference of mortal stock from which the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


vampires were originally drawn. Whatever the case, the Children of the 
Dracon do not antagonize the other Tzimisce so much as they take a consistent 
role of Devil’s Advocate. If the Tzimisce favor a siege, the Children posit the 
values of holding back; if the Fiends support the Inquisition, the Children 
argue against giving any faction too much power. Although this seems 
arbitrary, the Children seem to see themselves as the warders of their brothers. 
Apparently, sometime in the mists of history, a Tzimisce made a decision that 
affected the entirety of his clan (perhaps resulting in the clan’s odd weakness). 
The Children of the Dracon have sworn to make the Tzimisce consider the full 
gravity of their actions ... or perhaps atone for them. 
INPERNALISTS 
Infernalists - 
devil-worshippers, Satanists, followers of the Path of Evil 
Revelations - 
are not truly a faction within the Sabbat. Rather, they are a 
sickness that plagues it. Infernalists have no formal structure as they rarely 
associate with one another. The business of trafficking with demons is 
downright medieval- the infemalist is a lone conjurer, dealing withdevilsfor 
his own forbidden knowledge. The practice of infemalism runs contrary to 
everything the Sabbat believes in. While most infemalists see themselves as 
taking a shortcut to power, the truth is that they are selling themselves into 
demonic servitude. To the Sabbat, such servitude is completely counter to the 
ideas of freedom to which the sect swears. The Inquisition’s leading purpose is 
the tracking of these creatures, and woe to the fool whose infernal master 
deserts him as his foes close in. 
THE PACK 
Vampires are by and large solitary creatures at heart. Sabbat do not 
practice solitude - 
the nights are too dangerous to face completely alone 
without trustworthy comrades. For them, the pack becomes a strange mix of 
gang, family and platoon unit. 
Packs are typically organized with a single ductus to lead the group’s 
nightly activities, a priest to tend to spiritual needs and three to seven 
members. A pack‘s purposes may vary, from spying to computer hacking to 
breaking the Masquerade in Camarilla cities to frontline fighting in the Jyhad. 
The Sabbat may create some packs for such specific purposes of hunting relics 
or bringing down Lupines. 
For a Sabbat vampire, the pack is everything. It is a surrogate family, bound 
together through ties of blood and reinforced through the Vaulderie. When all 
hell’s breaking loose, your pack will be always at your back. This isn’t to say that 
such families aren’t dysfunctional - 
some packs’ dysfunction could fuel talk 
shows for years - 
but there is some degree of mutual sympathy that runs 
through the dynamic, or they would have no reason to stay together. 
There are two types of packs -nomadic 
and established. Nomadic packs 
are just that - 
often roaming the countryside in campers, on motorcycles, or 
stealing their transportation when the mood strikes them. Many are on 
scouting missions while others just prefer the freedom of wandering. Founded 
packs, on the other hand, choose a specific city to maintain a haven in, often 
serving the local bishop and keeping the mortals in line. Whatever they do, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


packs usually set up a communal haven (usually outfitted with a fantastic array 
of traps and escape routes), which has living quarters for eachpackmember and 
communal rooms for running rituals or storing weapons. 
THE 
CREATION 
RITES 
Most Kindred only see the “shovelhead” method of the Creation Rites, 
where a new vampire is thwacked on the back of the head with a shovel, buried 
in a grave and then must dig her way out. Packs only use such means during 
times of Jyhad, when speed is of the essence and the childer are useful as cannon 
fodder. Away from crusades, the Sabbat take as much care in selecting their 
childer and giving the Embrace as any other vampire. However, such new 
vampires must prove themselves before becoming True Sabbat. Without the 
Creation Rites, the new vampire is not a vampire in the eyes of the Sabbat: Her 
pack may feed from her or order her into battle, and she is generally at their 
mercy. 
Rites vary, but a priest always presides (or a higher authority if the initiate 
is an elder’s childe). The sire determines what form the rites should take, for 
it is he who decides if the childe should even receive the rite. Among Brujah 
untitribu or other violent groups, the rites may be similar to gang-style 
initiations. The Kiasyd may turn the childe loose in a strange library and order 
her to find a new piece of lore for her sire. A Toreador antitribu‘s rites could be 
a masterfully executed flaying or blood-sculpture while a Malkavian antihibu 
requires the initiate to cast an augury from the entrails of a still-living woman. 
Failure almost guarantees destruction - 
the childe has embarrassed the sire, 
who is unlikely to want a reminder of such, but success means the vampire 
becomes a True Sabbat, another monster unleashed upon the night. 
A SABBAT 
LEXICON 
The vampires of the Sabbat have evolved their own specialized patois, 
much of which takes into account their holy war on the Antediluvians and the 
attendant rituals and practices that follow it. Particularly old Sabbat vampires 
even recall terms and phrases that have long since passed into history. 
Although many of these terms are in common use among Sabbat vampires, 
some of them take on different meanings colloquially, given the lack of formal 
communication among sect members. Vampires who would “talk the talk” are 
advised to be aware of everything they say and what it means. 
Abbot -A vampire or ghoul charged with the maintenance of a pack‘s 
communal haven. 
Antitrib’bu - 
Literally, “anti-tribe” or “anti-clan.” The antihibu are vam- 
pires who have turned their backs on their “parent” clans and now espouse the 
policies of the Sabbat instead. One notable exception to this rule is the 
Lasombra untitribu, who have abandoned the Sabbat in favor of independent 
or Camarilla unlives. Parent clans hold their antitribu in low regard, especially 
the Lasombra. 
Archbishop - 
A vampire who serves as the leader of a city under the 
Sabbat’s influence. Not every Sabbat-held city claims an archbishop; some 
have councils of bishops. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Auctoritas R i m  - 
A collection of 13 rituals practiced by all vampires of 
the Sabbat, upheld in a manner similar to the Biblical 10 Commandments. 
Bishop - 
A vampire who serves or advises an archbishop, or a vampire 
who maintains Sabbat influence in a city with the aid of others of equal status. 
Those who are in the know liken bishops to the primogen of the Camarilla. 
Black Hand - 
The secret militia of the Sabbat. Some references allude 
to another organization with the same name. The “true” meaning of this term, 
if there is one, is a matter of much uncertainty, even among those who claim 
to be members. 
Blood Feast -A victim or group of victims, bound and suspended upside 
down. Said victims serve as refreshment at Sabbat functions. 
Brave - 
A vampire participating in a war party. 
Cainite -A vampire. Sabbat vampires use this term in places where other 
vampires would use the term Kindred. Sabbat vampires accept and claim 
descent from Caine, while the Camarilla largely claims him to be a myth. 
Cardinal - 
A Sabbat vampire who oversees the influential affairs of a 
large territory. A group of archbishops, who govern the affairs of local cities, 
attends each cardinal. 
Chief - 
The leader of a war party. 
Code of Milan - 
An oft-referenced but rarely seen document developed 
as acode ofconduct for Sabbat vampires. Some Sabbat scoff at it, claiming that 
codifying the sect’s behavior runs counter to everything the Sabbat stands for. 
Column - 
A permanent pack of Black Hand members, usually nomadic. 
Communal Haven - 
A single haven shared by an entire pack. 
Consistory -The body of advisors to the regent, composed of key prisci 
and cardinals. 
Convention of Thorns -The treaty that supposedly ended the Anarch 
Revolt and resulted in the formation of the Sabbat. 
Coven - 
A pack of Sabbat that makes a permanent haven in a city; used 
to differentiate between founded packs and nomadic packs. Most Sabbat cities 
host numerous covens in addition to providing “hospitality” to a seemingly 
endless stream of nomadic packs. 
Creation Rites - 
The special ritual marking a Sabbat vampire as 
becoming a true member of the sect. The Creation Rites differ from the 
Embrace in that anyone can be Embraced, but until he receives the Creation 
Rites, the recruit is not a member of the Sabbat (and thus, not considered a 
vampire.. . ). 
Daughters and Sons (of Caine) -All vampires. A similar term with the 
same meaning is “brothers and sisters.” 
Ductus - 
The leader of a Sabbat pack. This title is a highly subjective 
one, sometimes held by the meanest thug in a pack, sometimes acquired 
through ritual combat or genuine merit. The ductus decides the logistical 
affairs of her pack, though the wise ductus gives careful ear to her packmates’ 
voices. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Esbat - 
A weekly meeting held by a pack, whether nomadic or founded. 
Central to the esbats are the auctorita and ignoblis rime as well as discussions 
of events that affect the pack. 
FestivodeIIoEstinto-The “Festival ofthe Dead,”agrandcelebrationheld 
during the second week of April in Sabbat cities. All covens attend the festival, 
as do any nomadic packs that can make it. 
Fire Dance - 
A ritual and rough celebration in which Sabbat vampires 
prove their loyalty and bravery by jumping through raging fires. Many Sabbat 
war efforts and other events begin with fire dances. 
Founded Pack - 
A coven; a pack of Sabbat vampires that maintains a 
permanent haven in a city. 
Great Jyhad - 
The war for supremacy in the New World, begun in the 
17th century and arguably raging during the modem nights. 
Hand - 
The Black Hand. 
Headhunter - 
A Sabbat vampire who collects the skulls of his fallen foes 
as trophies. Some headhunters collect only vampire skulls while others collect 
Lupine skulls, mortals’ skulls or the skulls of witch-hunters. Sabbat consider 
these trophies great honors, according to the degree of difficulty associated 
with claiming them. 
Horseman- A nomadic Sabbat vampire, thought to have been inspired 
by the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. 
Hulul - 
The figurehead of the Assamite untitrib’bu, rumored to be ritually 
destroyed every 100 years. 
lgnoblis Rim - 
The rituals practiced by individual Sabbat packs to 
reinforce unity, loyalty and the causes of the Sabbat. These rituals vary from 
pack to pack, and the Sabbat considers them less important individually than 
the auctoritas ritae because they are not universally practiced. Some Sabbat 
members observe no ignoblis rim at all. 
Jyhad - 
The eternal conflict with other vampire sects. Sabbat use this 
term more loosely than other vampires because almost all struggle is a holy war 
from the Sabbat point of view. In her mind, a Sabbat takes part in the Jyhad 
any time she fights. 
Kindred - 
Non-Sabbat vampires. Most Sabbat use this term derisively, 
considering Camarilla vampires to be their inferior and laughing at their “big, 
happy family” of vampires who cower from humankind. Many Sabbat also 
apply the term “Kindred” sarcastically to vampires of independent clans, 
whom they perceive as too selfish or foolish to take up the cause against the 
Antediluvians. 
Loyalist - 
A Sabbat vampire who refuses to acknowledge leaders among 
the sect out of loyalty to its original goals. Loyalists believe that to be truly loyal 
to the Sabbat, they must have total freedom. Most Sabbat view Loyalists as 
agitators and dissidents, and their packmates and the elders watch them warily. 
Much of the Sabbat’s terrifying reputation among other vampires may stem 
from the actions of particularly fervent Loyalists. 
Monomacy - 
A ritual duel between vampires of the Sabbat, held under 
formal rules. This duel is a traditional Sabbat means of settling disputes, and 
it often results in the Final Death of one of the participants. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Nomadic Pack - 
A pack that travels constantly in its duties to the 
Sabbat. Nomadic packs maintain no permanent havens, but they sometimes 
keep bolt-holes and emergency havens throughout the regions they travel. 
Nomadic packs may also stop in cities for indeterminate periods of time, but 
they eventually return to the roads. 
Nomads - 
Members of nomadic packs. 
Pack- A group of Sabbat who have sworn the Vaulderie to one another. 
A Sabbat may belong to only one pack at a time - 
usually the one that enacted 
her Creation Rites - 
though she may have ties of blood to other packs from 
her past. 
Paladin - 
A Sabbat vampire who serves another important vampire as 
an assassin or bodyguard. Also known as templars, most Sabbat fear paladins 
for their disciplined martial prowess. The sect forbids paladins to hold 
membership in the Black Hand. 
Palla G r a d  - 
A grand and terrible festival held on All Hallows Eve, 
when all Sabbat vampires in a city gather to celebrate and revere the sect. It 
often takes the appearance of a masquerade ball, and the sect sometimes invites 
humans as guests - 
or refreshments. 
Paths of Enlightenment - 
The belief systems followed by the majority 
of the members of the Sabbat in place of Humanity. Paths of Enlightenment 
are moral codes that serve to anchor the Sabbat vampire against her ravening 
Beast, though some paths encourage “riding” the Beast rather than controlling 
it. The most common paths practiced by the Sabbat include the Path of Caine, 
the Path of Cathari, the Path of Death and the Soul, the Path of the Feral 
Heart, the Path of Honorable Accord, the Path of Lilith and the Path of Power 
and the Inner Voice. Some Sabbat follow the Path of Evil Revelations, though 
these vampires are hunted by the Sabbat Inquisition as heretics and traitors to 
the sect. 
Priest -The 
leader of Sabbat rime in a given pack. The spiritual leader 
of a pack, the priest is (theoretically) below the ductus in “rank,” though this 
is not true of every pack. 
Prior - 
An abbot (vide). 
Priscus - A Sabbat vampire, often quite advanced in age and/or 
generation, who advises the regent and cardinals. Plural pn’sci. 
Recruit -A vampire Embraced against her will, usually in the interests 
of providing cannon fodder for the sect’s conquests. 
Regent - 
The “leader” of the Sabbat, insofar as the sect recognizes one. 
Only one regent exists at a time. 
Sabbat - 1. The vampiric sect that opposes the Camarilla and the 
machinations of the Antediluvians. 
2. A vampire belonging to the sect. Usage: You’ll never meet a tougher 
Sabbat than Kassius. 
3. A group of vampires belonging to the sect. Usage: That last festival 
was a nighmre! We must have had 30 or 40 Sabbat all running around like their 
bishops told them to go berserk. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


True Sabbat - 
A Sabbat who has proven himself to the sect and has 
received the Creation Rites. 
Vaulderie - 
A mingling of the blood of all vampires in a pack, which is 
then consecrated by the pack priest and consumed by all members of the pack. 
Vinculum - 
A “blood tie” that creates an artificial loyalty to another 
member of one’s pack, like a minor blood bond. Vinculi result from partaking 
in the Vaulderie. 
V U L ~ A R  
A R ~ O T  
The Sabbat is a violent, hostile, youthful sect, and the young ones’ 
language reflects as much. Hereafter are some of the (more printable) terms 
Sabbat vampires casually drop. Many of these terms have roots in modern 
slang, but with an added meaning for vampires. Some even transcend the 
boundaries of sect and may be used anywhere. 
Bat - 
An elder vampire of the Sabbat, who often has little in common 
with younger members of the sect. 
Bitch - 
A probationary pack member or a Sabbat of lesser status than the 
speaker. 
Chica - 
A female Sabbat vampire. 
Costello - 
Dismissive term for the Camarilla. Some suspect this term to 
have arisen after a mispronunciation of “Sabbat.” 
Counting Coup - 
Taking the head of a fallen foe as a trophy (see 
Headhunter). This practice is sometimes called “scalping.” 
Crowley - 
A derogatory or dismissive term for followers of the Path of 
Evil Revelations, or vampires who make ostentatious shows of evil for its own 
sake. These individuals are also known as Ozzys or Mansons by some packs. 
Did - 
Killed. Usage: On that last ride through Dallas, we did everyone - 
the highway patrolman, that van full of campers and even a Lupine. It was a mess. 
Dog - 
A Lupine. In certain circles, dog also means an infectious carrier 
of blood-borne diseases (short for plague dog). 
Go Down -A vampire who, usually out of habit, perversity or derange- 
ment, commits sexual acts regardless of his own vampiric impotence. Also 
known by a host of other charming epithets including dick, hndjob, hummer, 
etc., usually custom-tailored to the specifics of the vampire in question’s 
behavior. 
Headache - 
Accidentally killing while feeding. Usage: It was hilarious - 
Melissa gave the bishop’s favorite vessel a headache, and now she’s feeding and 
watering his horses upstate. 
Injun or Indian - 
A member of a nomadic pack. 
Juice - 
Blood. 
Keg- A“member”of a Blood Feast. Some packs refer to these individuals 
as pints or longnecks. 
Pimp -A vampire charged with gathering vices for packmates. The pimp 
may procure drugs, alcohol, prostitutes, children or any other indulgences for 
fellow vampires (or mortals.. . ). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Pipes - 
An exceptional failure or an object of derision. Usage: Gavin 
loves the blood-tattoos Maris did for him, but I think they’re the pipes. 
Poet - 
A member of the Goth subculture, especially one who “dresses 
like a vampire.” Also known as Shelley or Byrons. 
Shovelhead - 
A Sabbat vampire created during a siege or other event 
that necessitated the “quick and dirty” mass Embrace. Also known as a Thwack 
or a Clang (after the sound a shovel to the head makes, presumably). The latter 
are sometimes used as verbs. 
Tongue - 
Sabbat propaganda or Sabbat proselytizer, often spread among 
the anarchs of Camarilla cities. 
V - 
A vampire. 
Vat0 - 
A male Sabbat vampire. 
Witch - 
Irreverent term for a pack priest, best used out of earshot of the 
individual in question. 
OLD EORM 
Despite its war on the elders, the Sabbat claims some members who are 
quite advanced in age themselves. These vampires recall the nights when the 
Sabbat was born and have carried over or adopted phrases as old as they are. 
Beware the vampire who speaks in the tongue of the Sabbat elders, for she is 
surely formidable and wicked beyond belief. 
Angellis Ater - 
The “black angels” of Clan Lasombra, often young 
vampires who embrace the stereotypical and shallow evils of the modem night 
in blatant attempts to become monsters. 
Kamut - 
A nomadic pack of Sabbat formed for a specific purpose, such 
as hunting Lupines, scouting Camarilla cities or exposing heretics. 
Lacheur - 
A young Sabbat, particularly an insolent one. May be used to 
refer to any young vampire in some cases. 
Manus Nigrum - 
A mysterious subsect of the Sabbat, or one entirely 
independent about which very little is known. Younger vampires refer to this 
group, apparently erroneously, as the Black Hand. 
Revenants - 
Individuals who are born as ghouls. Revenants are families 
of ghouls that have existed for so long with the blood of their undead masters 
in their veins that it now passes on to each of their descendants as well. The 
vampires of Clan Tzimisce seem to use revenants most often, and they are often 
held in suspicion by others who know of their natures. 
Shakari - 
The eldest vampires among the Assamite antitdm 
Sword of Caine - 
The Sabbat. 
Voivode - 
The leader of Clan Tzimisce. Some vampires postulate that 
there is no single voivode, and the title is one of inscrutable significance to only 
the Fiends themselves. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Sabbat is a very diverse sect, with representatives from almost every 
major clan within its ranks. Although most Sabbat hail from the ranks of Clans 
Lasombra and Tzimisce (see Laws of the Night), as many as half come from 
the ranks of the antitribu or “anti-clans” that have turned their backs upon 
their progenitors. Additionally, a few strange bloodlines have arisen in the 
sect, with no connection to outside clans or bloodlines. In this way, the sect 
prepares itself for the coming Gehenna and the continual Great Jyhad of the 
Antediluvians by arming themselves with soldiers of many capabilities. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ASSAMITF 
ANTITRIBU 
Since the Sabbat’s formation, the Assamite untitribu have played an 
important role in the sect and have become some of the most feared 
warriors of the Sword of Caine. Assamite untihibu typically place more 
emphasis on following the ideals of their clan than on upholding the sect’s 
purposes, though many of their beliefs coincide. The Angels of Caine 
seek to bring themselves closer to Caine, whom mainstream Assamites 
regard as a cursed and corrupt infidel. For some reason, the two clans seem 
to have guarded respect for each other, for which no one outside can give 
a plausible reason. Assamite untitribu claim superiority over their inde- 
pendent brethren, whom they despise for accepting the Camarilla’s 
punishment during the Treaty ofThorns. Even though the curse has since 
been broken, feelings on the matter have not changed. 
Like their brethren, Sabbat Assamites excel at assassination and 
stealth. Assamite untitribu make up a potent martial force for the sect, 
own prominent members, the hulul, as a gesture of favor to their dark 
father, and many of their practices are similarly grim in nature. 
Roleplaying Hints: You are a sword in the war of vengeance waged 
against the “Kindred,” their masters and anyone foolish enough to get 
in the way. You are not a mindless killer, though - 
wanton murder has 
no place in the war of the righteous. You rarely attempt to “convert” 
others; forcing your principles upon those who do not wish to accept 
them is vain and futile. Caine will recognize his own when he returns. 
Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus 
Advantage: Members of this clan of death-bringers have a legacy 
of success. Most Sabbat Cainites respect these vampires based on the 
simple fact that the Assamite untitribu chose to Embrace them: Only the 
most potent mortals receive such. All Assamite untitribu gain the 
Sabbat Status of Feared. 
Additionally, like members of their parent clan, Sabbat Assamites 
often train in the ways of violence even before receiving the Curse of 
Caine. Assamite untinibu gain either one Melee Ability or one Brawl 
Ability at no additional cost during character creation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Weakness: The Sabbat Assamites have the same weakness as their 
progenitor clan- indeed, they never lost it, for they never succumbed 
to the Tremere’s curse. Members of this clan frequently become 
addicted to the blood of other vampires. When a Sabbat Assamite tastes 
vampiric vitae, she must make a Self-Controlhtinct Test with a four- 
Trait difficulty. If she fails, the taste is not enough, and she takes as 
much blood as she can, maybe even draining the vessel. Even if the 
Cainite succeeds in the test, the hunger should be roleplayed to the best 
of the player’s ability. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BLOOD 
BROTHERS 
Created through vile Tzimisce and Tremere magic in the castles 
and chantries of the Old World, the Blood Brothers are an artificial 
“bloodline” of soldiers and servants. Extensive experimentation in 
blood bonding resulted in a brutal collective of vampires linked by 
communal thought. Although the bloodline is known as the Blood 
Brothers, a few rumors circulate concerning female members, but 
without evidence the talk remains just that. 
Blood Brothers are built around a hive-mind, sharing thoughts and 
experiences vicariously through other members of their “circles.” This 
allows them to workeffectively even at adistance. The bloodline excels 
at security, sabotage and coordinated attacks. The Frankensteins also 
practice an unpleasant Discipline that allows them to take advantage 
of their mental links and even ex 
tihibu, Blood Brothers 
Roleplaying Hints: Do what you are told. When you askquestions, 
they relate to the completion of your responsibilities, not the purpose 
or validity of them. Your master knows best, and your reason for existing 
is to aid him in achieving his greater goals. 
Note: Obviously, with so little room for individual thought and 
characterization, the Blood Brothers do not usually make good choices 
for ongoing player characters. The bloodline is best used by Storytellers 
as a plot device or simple (but very determined.. .) rivals. 
Disciplines: Fortitude, Potence, Sunguinus 
Advantage: Blood Brothers are chosen for their hardiness. Due to 
their hale bodies and mystical origins, Blood Brothers become even 
tougher upon their “Embrace” (see below). During character creation, 
Blood Brother characters receive an additional two endurance-related 
Physical Traits, such as Enduring, Resilient, Stalwart or Tough. 
Weakness: Blood Brother vitae is sterile. Created by mystical 
rituals, they are not Cainites in the literal sense of the word and they 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


may not Embrace mortals (though they may create ghouls). If a Blood 
Brother attempts to sire a childe (why would his master tell him to do 
this?), the mortal simply dies. Note that with the loss of the Tremere 
untinibu, few Cainites know how to create Blood Brothers, and the 
number of circles is shrinking. 
The hive-mind and common creation ritual do have their detri- 
ments. Blood Brothers share each others’ declivities as well as their 
strengths: Any Blood Brother’s Negative Physical or Social Traits may 
be bid against any other member of his circle in challenges. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BRUJAH 
ANTITRIBU 
During the Anarch Revolt, many youn Brujah readily took up 
dalliance with the revolutionary ideology. The Brujah anarchs saw 
this as another of the elders’ betrayals and treacheries against the 
young childer of Caine and now nurse an eternal grudge against those 
elders who joined the Camarilla. Most Sabbat Brujah are very 
supportive of their sect, unlike the fractious and indolent Brujah of 
the Camarilla. Not only do they support the sect with enthusiasm, 
they have an active vision that Sabbat ideology (or propaganda, as 
their rivals suggest) serves to unify. 
the cause. Several clan elders denounced t a e anarchs after a brief 
have lost faith in the Lasombra 
support the Loyalist faction, and a few calm themselves long 
enough to contribute something of worth to the Black Hand or 
Inquisition or become paladins. The Brutes are, quite possibly, the 
future of the sect. 
Role laying Hints: You’re a vampire, dammit, so you may as 
oin to take that from you. Talk and planning have their place, 
tut tie Final Nights are the time for action! You may be undisci- 
plined or utterly calculating, but one thing is true in every case: 
Those who stand idly by never make the change that’s necessary 
to winning the war. 
well act P ike it! The world is yours, and no elder’s puppets are 
Disciplines: Celerity, Potence, Presence 
Advantage: Sabbat Brujah may be vocal firebrands, reasoned 
intellectuals or bare-knuckled hooligans, like their Camarilla kin, but 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


they tend to be less involved with the influential side of things. Instead 
of a bonus Influence Trait, Sabbat Brujah may take a second Ability 
during character creation, free of cost, to reflect the time they spend 
“doing things the hard way.” Brujah may select two Abilities from the 
following group: Politics, Academics, Brawl and Streetwise, or any 
combination. 
Weakness: Brujah untitriibu suffer the same short tempers and 
clan, as their blood carries the same passion 
Brujah suffer one-Trait penalties on tests of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


C~ANC~RFL 
ANTITRIBU 
Like the bestial vampires of legend, the Gangrel antirribu display the 
Sabbat’s animalistic side. Whether the predatory City Gangrel or the 
untamed Country Gangrel, Sabbat Gangrel are tireless hunters whose skill in 
the pursuit of prey knows no peer. Like animals, they are consummate 
stalkers, reveling in the thrill of the hunt and gorging themselves on the 
blood of their victims. 
Gangrel antitribu have two distinct bloodlines, with two very different 
tastes in the modem nights. The Country Gangrel still somewhat resemble 
their parent clan, shunning society and prowling the nights alone. They 
conjure images of the vampires of legend, assuming animal forms and 
untry Gangrel serve the Sabbat as 
stream” Gangrel from 
the Camarilla, the Sabbat has seen many converts to their cause from their 
rival sect. Although the defectors remain tight-lipped about the event that 
drove them away, it seems to have given them a new conviction for the 
Sabbat’s cause. 
Roleplaying Hints: Cainites are as much Beast as they are Man, and you 
embody this fact. Your unlife depends upon your instincts - 
let the 
Lasombra scheme and the Tzimisce indulge their perversities; they have lost 
touch with what it means to be a vampire. Whether you are a feral monster 
or a refined predator, you indulge your more primitive nature to survive. 
Disciplines: Animalism, Fortitude, Protean (Country Gangrel); Celerity, 
Obfuscate, Protean (City Gangrel) 
Advantage: As they embrace their animalistic natures, the Gangrel of 
the Sabbat are knowledgeable of the ways of beasts, so they gain one Animal 
Ken Ability at no extra cost during character creation. 
Gangrel antitribu often feel the same wanderlust as their parent clan. As 
such, they often spend (or have spent) some period of their unlives alone and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


+F 
i 
e 
away from the comforts of permanent havens. They gain one Survival Ability 
during character creation at no extra cost. 
Weakness: After frenzies, the Beast leaves a mark of its passage on the 
Gangrel untitn'bu. When a Gangrel experiences a frenzy, she acquires an 
animalistic feature and a Negative Social Trait - 
Bestial, Feral or Repugnant 
- 
in the aftermath. These Traits may not be removed except by exceptional 
means (such as powerful magic or Vicissitude, though they may be hidden by 
certain powers of Obfuscate). The character may gain no more than five 
Negative Traits in this manner. Indeed, some Sabbat Gangrel barely re- 
semble the human stock from which they came.. . . 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


HARBINC~FRS 
OE SKULLS 
This enigmatic cult of necromancers has only recently joined the Sabbat, which 
they claim to have done solely for the purpose of vengeance. Members of the bloodline 
are almost all of advanced age, and many speak of returning from exile in the realms of 
the Underworld. As they tell the tale, a murderous band of sorcerers hunted them for their 
blood in nights long past, driving them to extinction to serve their own desires for power. 
Other members of the sect describe the Laarenes as aloof and guarded. Some even 
allude to the Harbingers as paranoid, or perhaps tainted by madness after whatever ordeal 
that consumed them for so long. Only a few of these Cainites are known to exist, but they 
have accumulated an inordinate amount of power and voice in the sect for such a short 
period of membership. The Black Hand, the Inquisition and the consistory all have 
members of the Harbingers among them. 
The Harbingers of Skulls wie 
agic as effectively as any Giovanni, 
perhaps more so for their time in t 
Id. The sect regards the Lazarenes’ 
Necromancy as a great benefit, 
that the Camarilla has yet to 
explore. Some speculate this m 
purpose in the Sabbat - 
new 
power in exchange for favors 
The Embrace 
emaciated cadavers, 
which they often he 
hence their name). 
Whether they do this as 
ir rivals is unknown. 
Also, the bloodline has a 
at relies on masks - 
prominent members wear 
mbers have simpler masks. 
d, and yours has chilled for 
centuries. The Sabbat is a too 
tical agenda is secondary, but 
as long as you assist the sect, yo 
n call upon as you need them. 
You don’t care who knows this 
bbat have no illusions regarding 
your mercenary nature. To the 
to you they are weapons to turn 
upon your hated foes. 
Note: Vampires of advanced age comprise this bloodline, and they are often not 
a viable option for player characters. Storytellers should feel free to restrict this 
bloodline to Storyteller characters or elder games. 
Roleplaying Hints: R 
Disciplines: Awpex, Fortltde, Necromancy 
Advantage: The Harbingers of Skulls are no strangers to the realms ofpolitics, and 
are certainly not above using Necromancy to unearth secrets for blackmail material. 
During character creation and at no extra cost, a Harbinger of Skulls may take any 
permutation of three of the following Traits: Sabbat Status, one Influence or a trivial 
boon. For example, a player may choose for his character to possess one Sabbat Status 
Trait and two Church Influence Traits, or two Sabbat Status Traits and one trivial boon. 
Weakness: As the Harbingers of Skulls resembles corpses, they are as visually 
unpleasant as the most twisted Nosferatu. They suffer a similar Weakness: Every 
Harbinger possesses the Negative Social Traits Ghastly x 3 whenever they reveal their 
true forms. These Traits may never be removed by Free Traits or Experience Traits 
(though they may be hidden by Obfwcate). They may never possess Traits relating to 
appearance such as Gorgeous or Seductive. Harbingers may not initiate Social Chal- 
lenges, though they may defend against them normally. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


KIASYD 
An inscrutable line of fey-blooded Cainites, the Kiasyd are small 
in number and seem to have few active relations with the Sabbat, 
his lair to utter some cryptic warning or charge a bishop with an 
inscrutable quest. 
Roleplayin Hints: Unlife is not something to be frivolously 
blessing if it is used to unravel the mysteries of the world. Still, 
ruthlessness has its place, and one should not hesitate to use the 
powers at one’s command. After all, the young Cainites are thirsty, 
and the blood ofelders, Kiasyd or otherwise, is always on their minds. 
Keep them in their place with the odd bit of lore and a healthy dose 
of fearful respect. 
Note: Because of their elder natures and sheer rarity, Kiasyd are 
best used as Storyteller characters. 
Disciplines: Dominate, My therceriu, Obtenebrution 
Advantage: The Kias d often spend their unlives in search of 
secrets, and much of the ‘6 loodline’s concept of prestige balances 
wasted on batt P e or conquest. The curse of immortality can be a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


upon how much a given member knows. To reflect this undying 
thirst for knowledge, Kiasyd gain two Lore Abilities of their choice 
during character creation at no extra cost. This often takes the 
form of Kindred Lore as it is most useful, but a few Kiasyd have 
uncovered the practices of the Lupines or puzzled out the riddles of 
the Wild Ones. 
Weakness: The Weirdlings seem to have some tie to the fae 
- 
cold iron causes them pain and discomfort. Simply being in 
the presence of iron causes the Kiasyd to suffer a one-Trait 
penalty on Self-ControllInstinct tests. Any damage inflicted upon 
a Kiasyd by an iron weapon is considered aggravated. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


MALKAVIAN 
ANTITRIBU 
The violent, dangerous nature of the Sabbat offers no solace for the fractured 
minds of the Malkavians. Indeed, Sabbat Malkavians are often more deranged 
and psychotic than their Camarila counterparts. Still, the old maxim of method 
lying beneath madness often proves true for the Sabbat - 
the seemingly 
incomprehensible actions of the Malkavians confound the sect’s foes, and more 
than one conflict has been won at the hands of a Malkavian tactician. 
Still, chaos is a dangerous element, and it festers in the minds of the 
Malkavianantinih. At varying points lucid and manic, Sabbat Malkavians are 
no more reliable than others of their mad line as insanity takes its toll on them. 
Malkavians of the Sabbat tend to have vicious edges to their insanity, and the 
clan claims a number of serial killers, mass murderers, cannibals and other 
would rather look away than see it plainly. You suffer no such delusion, 
however; the truth has warped you in its own unique way, but you know its 
nature. Or perhaps you don’t - 
perhaps Fate has played the ultimate trick 
upon you and lied to you very successfully. Still, if that’s the case, who would 
know unless they had the strength to observe it themselves? That’s what you 
tell yourself. That’s how you abate the fever in you mind each night: Even if 
you’re completely wrong, you’re still less wrong than the ones who can’t bear 
to learn. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Dementution, Objmcate 
Advantage: Malkavian insanity is the price of insight, or so the clan 
maintains. Whether or not this is true, Sabbat Malkavians experience bursts 
of clarity to which other Cainites seem nigh oblivious. During character 
creation, Malkavian untinibu gain one extra Awareness Ability at no extra cost. 
Sabbat Malkavians share the mysterious connection to the network of 
fractured minds known as the “madness network.” Sometimes their insight is 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the result of their uncommon vision, but it is also the product of the whispered 
voices that travel ceaselessly through the minds of all Malkavians. 
Weakness: Afflicted by the curse of insanity, every Malkavian antitribu 
suffers from some form of derangement, which the player chooses during 
character creation. This derangement may never be removed or permanently 
cured, though Willpower Traits may temporarily overcome it. 
Additionally, the Sabbat breeds unrest and lessens a Malkavian antitriibu's 
control over the Beast (whether through lack of discipline or too much 
indulgence in monstrousness). A Sabbat Malkavian may not spend a Willpower 
Trait to control herself during a frenzy - 
she must ride it through to the end. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


NOSPFRATU 
ANTITRIBU 
Elders of the sect suspect that the Nosferatuantitribu joined the 
Sabbat less out of hatred for their sires than out of something 
lurking beneath the clan’s own veil of secrecy. Nosferatu of the 
Sabbat seem to be on the best terms with their Camarilla counter- 
parts of all the clans of the Sword of Caine, but why? As expected, 
the Nosferatu and their antitribu close ranks when asked about it - 
the problem is theirs alone. 
The Nosferatu antitribu are as hideously deformed as their Camarilla 
counterparts, making their havens in the sewers under their cities, 
the inside as they are on the outside. 
Roleplaying Hints: Sabbat, Camarilla, whatever. That doesn’t 
matter too much. What’s important is knowing what eo le need 
you to know because that puts them in our debt. Unli K R  
e t e other 
because the ancient tales of your clan tell that it has loosed a horde 
of hunters upon you. The more peo le who owe you favors, the 
more people upon whom you can ca P 1 to tell you what they know, 
the more aware you’ll be when the end of the world arrives. And 
just maybe you’ll be able to survive it. 
clans, you fear your Antediluvian rat K er than hating it blindly 
Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Potence 
Advantage: When one is a hideously disfigured monster, one 
either dies quickly or adapts to her environment. The Nosferatu 
antitribu are hale Cainites, tough and determined. Every Sabbat 
Nosferatu gains one free Stealth Ability and one free Survival Ability 
during character creation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Weakness: The other side of wretched ugliness, and the most 
significant, is the toll it takes upon one’s social capabilities. No 
Nosferatu unticribu may ever acquire the Traits Gorgeous, Alluring or 
Seductive unless they use magical means or a Discipline. Additionally, 
Nosferatu unticribu suffer the Negative Social Traits Repugnant x 3 
when they show their visage, and these Traits may never be removed 
without some outstanding circumstance. Sabbat Nosferatu may not 
call for a Social Challenge (except intimidation), though they may 
defend against them normally. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


PANDERS 
Although not truly a clan (no Antediluvian is believed to have 
founded the bloodline), the Panders have made a lace for themselves 
[as no known clan becomes a Pander as do childer Panders Embrace. 
A broad spectrum of Cainites comprise the Panders, most of whom are 
young and rowdy. Haughty Cainites should beware, however; Panders 
are True Sabbat, not just a proving ground for embarrassing childer. 
The Panders came to be reco nized during the late 1950s. 
Im ressed with the efforts of the ra ble leader Joseph Pander, the 
despite their inaus icious origins. Like Caiti 8 - 
which, for all 
ractical purposes, t K ey are - 
any vampire who joins the Sabbat and 
el 2 
ers of the Sabbat rewarded his sect-loyal followers with formal 
in the Final Nights. 
Roleplaying Hints: This is the Sabbat: If you don’t prove you’re 
worth something, then you’re not. Proving yourself can take any 
form - 
maybe you’re a smooth diplomat, maybe you know all the 
right people, or maybe you’re just really good at putting the hurt on 
Cainites who need it, but whatever it is, you do it well. After all, you 
have to - 
if you’re no ood, you’re going to end up as a pile of ashes. 
you’re useful. In a vampire’s world, you have to rely on yourself 
You can’t rely on the e k ders because they only indulge you so lon as 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines: Any. Panders have no specific clan Disciplines, 
choosing and learning Disciplines as per Caitiff (see Laws of the 
Night, p. 63 and 124). 
Advantage: Panders have no innate advantage. 
Weakness: The benefit of having no advantage is that the 
Panders also have no inherent disadvantage - 
the blood of Caine 
is so polluted, weak or subverted in them that they carry none of the 
traditional banes or benefices of the clans. Note that few Panders 
ever achieve an significant degree of Sabbat Status, however. Also, 
lower than Ninth Generation. 
because their b Y ood is so diluted, no Pander may begin the game 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


RAVNOS 
ANTITRIBU 
According to the spotty oral history of the clan, a faction of Ravnos 
Cainites split from their Gypsy heritage after the formation of the 
Sabbat. Sabbat vampires didn’t torment each other with complex 
Hindu dharma riddles or deny that the Beast was a part of them. The 
Sabbat became a haven for these young defectors who became the first 
Ravnos untitriibu. 
Over the years, the Rogues have distanced themselves from the sect, 
helping when it suits them and otherwise generally doing whatever they 
please. Many Sabbat wonder why they claim membership in the sect at 
all. The Ravnos untihibu maintain that it is for their own identity: They 
no longer observe the ways of their original clan and have freed them- 
Roleplaying Hints: You do what you want and if it helps the 
Sabbat, so much the better. That way, they owe you something, or at 
least that’s how you see it. Your sire’s sire may have joined the sect to 
escape the old clan’s games, but you know the score - 
the Sabbat’s just 
like any other group of Cainites, full of liars and bastards looking out for 
their own desires. And since you know that, you have no problems 
upholding those ideals yourself; after all, it’s not like you’re pretending 
you’re better than anyone else. 
Disciplines: Animalism, Chimers?, 
Fortitude 
Advantage: Sabbat Ravnos know the value of learning the ins and 
outs of the low-life. Whether they travel each night or they settle down 
into a comfortable haven, Ravnos untitriibu cultivate the contacts and 
opportunities necessary to keeping their unlives safe. During character 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


creation, a Ravnos untinibu may take a Contacts Trait or Street Influence 
at no additional cost. 
Also, their nomadic tendencies instill in them a keen sense for how 
to survive in less than ideal situations. Sabbat Ravnos also receive an 
additional Survivul or Stealth Ability at no extra cost. 
Weakness: Blood is stronger than politics and the Ravnos still 
suffer the same urges for vice as their parent clan. Each Ravnos untinibu 
has a passion for a “signature crime,” whether theft, murder, con games 
or even the blood of inebriated vessels. Any time the Ravnos untitribu 
faces his vice of choice, he must indulge it unless he succeeds at a three- 
Trait Self-ControllInstinct test. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


SALUBRI 
ANTITRIBU 
The Salubri antihibu have only recently joined the Sabbat, though 
they have established themselves as fervent opponents of the Camarilla, 
whom they blame for the destruction of their clan progenitor. Although 
they care little for the ideals of the Sabbat, they claim membership in the 
sect out of necessity rather than true support. The Sabbat is happy to take 
any allies it can find, and the Salubriuntitribu know how greatly the Sabbat 
hates the Camarilla. 
The Sabbat Salubri make proud boasts regarding their effectiveness, 
claiming that they have eliminated the Cainites responsible for slaying their 
founder. Driven by vengeance, the Salubri untirn’bu operate as furious 
warriors, though their own private grudges easily distract them. Most Sabbat 
torment, ending only 
The Furies are as 
are a bloodline. 
nd more a result 
ttle status in the 
Camarilla, in which the Sabbat is nothing but a convenient ally. Whether 
or not you know the specifics of why the fight is so dire (which not every 
Salubri antitdm does), you know that the cause is justified. The bloodline is 
almost a cult or religion, so fiercely does it believe in its own cause and the 
need for atonement. This fervor serves you well, for it gives you purpose 
when you rise for the night. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Vakren 
Advantage: In studying their past, the Sabbat Salubri acquire some 
knowledge of the world’s supernatural mysteries. During character creation, 
each member of the bloodline gains one free Occult Ability at no extra cost. 
The bloodline places great emphasis on accepting one’s vampiric 
nature. If the player chooses to have his character assume a Path of 
Enlightenment at character creation, he gains one Morality Trait, free of 
charge. This may not take a beginning character above three Morality Traits 
at the beginning of the game, however. 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Weakness: Angry, impassioned creatures, the Salubri antitribu must 
take the blood that sustains them from fallen enemies or otherwise by force. 
Blood that is freely offered to them does not give them any Blood Trait 
benefit - 
they must take their sustenance in the heat of passion. 
Additionally, the Salubri untitribu are few in number, and their spec- 
trum of generations is not very broad. All Salubri untitribu must begin the 
game between 10th and 12th Generation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


SERPENTS 
OE THE LIC~HT 
The Serpents of the Light are a renegade cult of the Followers of 
Set. The Serpents bear little connection to their parent clan: While 
many Setites trace their lineages to Egypt, the Serpents claim they 
originated in the West Indies. Some Cainites propose that the first 
Serpents were orphaned Setites who agreed with the political ideology 
of the Sabbat. 
The formative Serpents sought protection from their hostile fore- 
bears in the ranks of the Sabbat, and the animosity between the 
Serpents of the Light and the Setites grew nightly afterward until the 
Serpents proclaimed total independence from the Followers of Set. 
to torment eac 
their means are v 
Roleplaying Hints: Manipulation by seduction is your tool of 
choice, after which you discern your mark‘s weakness -be it drugs, sex, 
power or whatever - 
and bring your victim under your influence. You 
generally prefer to operate under cover or away from the sight of others, 
extending your influence through minions and dupes without identify- 
ing yourself and drawing attention. You have a “fight fire with fire” 
attitude when it comes to conflict with the Setites and, when you 
encounter it, the Camarilla. 
Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Serpentis 
Advantage: Like their parent clan, the Serpents of the Light 
involve themselves in the underworld and its vice markets. Of course, 
they do this for good reason: Their vitality depends upon it. To reflect 
their connections with the criminal culture and those peripheral to it, 
each Serpent of the Light gains one extra Streetwise Ability at no 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


additional cost during character creation. Also, the Serpent may take 
one Influence at no extra cost from the following list: Political, Street or 
Underworld. 
Weakness: As vampires - 
especially those who hail from a dark 
god of the Egyptian underworld - 
Serpents of the Light are creatures 
of the night, despite their name. They are very sensitive to light, even 
from the dimmest and most artificial source. Exposure to sunlight causes 
them to suffer an additional health level of damage. Other sources of 
bright light (such as spotlights, flares, halogen street lights, etc.) inflict 
a one-Trait penalty for all actions undertaken in the light. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TOREADOR 
ANTITRIBU 
In the early nights of the sect, the Toreador antitribu layed 
an instrumental role in bringing the Sabbat together. &ch of 
what tookplace after the Convention ofThoms did so with the 
uidance of Toreador anarchs who would later lead the sect. 
%h e nascent Toreador antitribu established much of the sect’s 
structure as well as outlining many of the sect’s beliefs. 
The Perverts have adopted roles not too dissimilar from the 
yours to make. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Presence 
Advantage: Because they must move through the ranks of 
society with ease, Toreador antitribu often learn the concepts 
and concerns of the people with whom they meet. Every 
Toreador gains any combination of two Traits from the follow- 
ing: Academics Crafts, Performance or Subterfuge (she may take 
two separate Yraits or the same one twice) at no extra cost. 
Weakness: While art and beauty mesmerize the Toreador 
the Toreador untitribu have come to be fascinated b pain and 
displeasure. Whether their own or that of others, B 
iscomfort 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


veritably hypnotizes the Sabbat Toreador. When confronted 
with a scene of pain or the o portunity to do harm (no matter 
dark passion, or else spend a Mental Trait to free hersel from 
the temptation. This may be as simple as making a callous 
remark or as grave as torture or murder. 
f: 
how inconsequential), the f 
oreador untitrin’bu must indul e the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


VFNTRUF 
ANTITRIBU 
Centuries ago, according to the Ventrue untitribu, members of their 
clan were knights and aristocrats, masters of statecraft and diplomacy. 
After the Anarch Revolt and the formation of the Camarilla came the 
Renaissance, and the Ventrue changed with the times. Rather than 
remain nobles, they pursued financial interests, joining the merchant 
class. They abandoned nobility and the right of kings to rule. 
So say the Ventrue untitribu. The Ventrue anarchs who had 
opposed their elders during the revolt had chafed under the dominance 
of their aged sires. As mortal society evolved, these elders tightened 
their grip on their holdings, preventing younger and more able Ventrue 
from achieving what was rightfully theirs. The Ventrue had given up 
childer. Gehenna may come, but Cainites, as tools of God’s vengeance 
and the Devil’s will, should dominate the Children of Seth. 
Roleplaying Hints: You bear the task of paving the way for the 
childer of Caine to their proper place. After the Antediluvian threat has 
been destroyed, you will help usher in a new era of Cainite supremacy. 
Until then, however, you must fight tirelessly. To accept anything else is 
to take the path of the disgraced Ventrue of the Camarilla, and that’s not 
a failure you’re willing to accept. 
Disciplines: Dominate, Fortitude, Presence 
Advantage: Their passionate dedication to their cause has given 
the Ventrue untitribu a powerful reputation among the Sons and 
Daughters of Caine. At the beginning of the game, Ventrue untitribu 
gain one Sabbat Status Trait from the following list at no additional 
cost: Respected, Righteous, Passionate or Feared. 
Crusaders come from hale stock, with skills necessary for the Great 
Jyhad. Also at no additional cost, a Ventrue untitribu player may take 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


one of the following Abilities for her character during character 
creation: Academics, Finance, Leadership, Melee or Politics. 
Weakness: Like their counterparts in the Camarilla, Sabbat Ventrue 
suffer selective tastes when it comes to the matter of feeding. Ventrue 
may take only blood that meets the exacting requirements of their 
restriction (though they may Embrace as normal). This comes into play 
not only during the course of the game, in which the character may take 
sustenance only from his prey group, but also at the beginning of the 
game - 
Ventrue unticribu begin play with one less Blood Trait than 
other vampires of their generation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The following is a brief description of character creation, adapted from 
Laws of the Night, for Sabbat characters. The lists of Attributes, Abilities and 
Merits and Flaws are by no means complete - 
for more detailed information 
on character creation, see Laws of the Night. 
STEP ONE: INSPIRATION 
Arguably the most important step in character creation is the formation 
of the basic concept. Every vampire was once a normal human, after all, with 
hopes, fears, dreams and ambitions. Once Embraced, the character brings her 
particular views to her new unlife. These strengths and weaknesses shape the 
character’s Traits, capabilities and limitations. The first step in creating a 
character is to come up with a basic idea of the person. Don’t worry about 
details now; think more in terms of broad brushstrokes. Create the person 
before you create the vampire. 
CLAN 
With a base concept in mind, determine your character’s clan. Did he 
arrive by a mass Embrace (which wasn’t too picky about a particular breed)? 
Did the clan select her for certain qualities (a savage outlook on life? her 
ruthless dealings with other people) ?The choice of clan influences acharacter’s 
development heavily. The clan also determines the sorts of Disciplines, 
strengths and weaknesses innate to the character. 
There are few or no Caitiff in the Sabbat. While those born without a clan 
are common (given the rampant siring that occurs during certain rituals and 
times of war), they have banded together as a clan of their own- the Panders. 
If you wish to play a true Caitiff, outside the Pander clan, you will need a very 
good reason to have been excluded from the “family.” 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


NATURE 
AND DEMEANOR 
To define a character’s personality, choose an Archetype. Each Arche- 
type lists an underlying motivation, a reason for a character to behave in 
specific ways. The Archetypes described here are, by no means, the final list 
of personalities; Storytellers can suggest and approve any further number of 
Archetypes. Bear in mind that the more “humane”Natures or Demeanors are 
simply inappropriate: Those without the stomach for the job rarely survive. 
A character’s Nature is her innermost persona, the true basis of her 
motives. By contrast, the Demeanor is the public face, the one a character 
shows to everyone else. On occasion, Nature and Demeanor may be the same. 
In the Sabbat, an individual’s Demeanor is most likely very close to her true 
self - 
the Sabbat has little time for duplicity. Also, your pack will be aware of 
your Nature, even if you attempt to hide it from others. 
Listed below are a number of Sabbat-specific Archetypes. Of course, feel 
free to use Archetypes listed in Laws of the Night or to create your own with 
approval from your Storyteller. 
Capitalist - 
You are the ultimate mercenary, with a keen understanding 
of how to manipulate others. 
Chameleon- You can blend into any situation, able to pass yourself off as 
anything. You have no true loyalties. 
Creep Show - 
You strive to shock and disgust, to intimidate and control 
others. 
Daredevil -You 
love taking risks and will seize any opportunity to do so. 
Dark Pioneer-You 
can’t change the traditions of the past, but you can be 
Dark Poet -You 
want to share the beauty of darkness with the rest of the 
Drunk Uncle - 
When things are going well, you’re everyone’s best friend. 
Enigma -Your 
actions are bizarre, uncontrolled; your erratic behavior is 
Eye of the Storm - 
Despite your calm outward appearance, you surround 
Guru - 
You seek enlightenment and cling to your idealism, trying to 
Recruiter - 
It makes sense to build your side up before trying to tear theirs 
Sadist -You 
exist to inflict pain and suffering. Killing is too easy- they 
Sociopath- All inferior beings should be eradicated. You have no remorse 
Stalker-The chase is all; the capture and feeding is almost anticlimactic. 
Sorority Sister-you dowhatever the “in”crowddoes, and youdo itbetter. 
Torturer - 
Pain isn’t a profession for you - 
it’s a calling. 
the force that drives the future. 
world. 
When they are going poorly, you’re their worst nightmare. 
considered insanity by those you meet. 
yourself with chaos and death. 
convert others. 
down. 
have to know pain. 
or compassion. You are a machine. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


PATHS 
OE ~ ~ N L I C ~ H T E N M E N T  
Every vampire struggles with the Beast Within, the predatory drive of 
hunger that pushes Cainites to acts of fury, desperation and horror. Only by 
clinging to a moral compass can a vampire resist the slide into total depravity. 
Vampires of the Sabbat feel that Humanity is a lesser path, and seek 
alternate means of controlling their Beasts. The Paths of Enlightenment have 
existed for as long as many Sabbat can remember, guiding those who follow 
them away from Wassail. Those who follow these Paths have no Humanity left; 
the Paths espouse utterly alien (albeit wholeheartedly vampiric) beliefs and 
morals. The Sabbat insists on placing its recruits on Paths so that they are more 
suited to leave mortal society behind and accept their new existence. 
At this step in character creation, decide on your Morality. As strange as 
it might sound, many Sabbat neonates (usually the very young) take their early 
years still clinging to their Humanity; they simply haven’t had the time or 
experience to completely cast off all their mortal side, but those who cling for 
too long don’t survive long enough to change. However, Sabbat past their 
neonate years are often on a Path of Enlightenment, guided by their priests or 
mentors. Paths of Enlightenment are not for beginning players; they are utterly 
inhuman codes of behavior that demand intense roleplay. Consult your 
Storyteller if you’re unsure what your character should follow. 
STEP Two: ATTRIBUTES 
Natural capabilities use Attributes for descriptions. You determine your 
character’s natural talents, selecting whether your character is to be physically 
adroit, mentally agile or socially adept. Once you’ve decided on your character’s 
inherent strengths, you should describe exactly the sorts of exceptional character- 
istics she possesses. In your primary area of Attribute development, choose seven 
Traits; in your secondary, choose five; in your tertiary area, select three Traits. 
Details of the various Sabbat Paths are listed in Chapter Four. 
NEW ATTRIBUTES 
Attributes are descriptors of a character’s natural talent and capabilities. 
In the Sabbat, some Attributes are considered a good mark of a sect member, 
while more “humane” ones are considered a liability. 
Physical Attributes are the character’s general health, dexterity, stamina 
and general physical capability. The Sabbat values individuals who are good 
fighters, and strong workers. 
A character’s Social Attributes are a definition of her personality, her 
internal capacity to interact with others and her ability to lead and to follow. 
The Sabbat typically chooses only the most ruthless and aggressive personali- 
ties, bringing hardened killers and other amoral individuals into the sect. 
While the Sabbat does occasionally choose individuals who are beautiful, 
smooth and competent, the sect encourages certain behaviors and morals. 
Mental Traits define the character’s capacity for learning and reasoning. 
The Sabbat typically does not value most types of study, but they do support 
occult education and tactical training. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Laws of the Night gives many examples of Traits that aplayer may choose 
to represent the character’s Mental, Social and Physical Attributes. The Traits 
listed below are intended to add to those and define more Sabbat-specific 
character Traits. Some of the Traits listed in Laws of the Night are recopied 
here, under different areas (Callous, for example, is considered to be a desirable 
Trait in the Sabbat, whereas Empathetic is Negative). Only those Traits listed 
below are considered to have “changed sides,” although as always, your 
Storyteller is the final arbiter of what is appropriate. For the Sabbat chronicle 
purposes, the character receives a Bestial (not Callous) Trait when he frenzies 
and acquires a Negative Trait. 
If you’re going to have a mixed chronicle, then you may not wish to 
expand your system with these optional Traits. It’s not fair to make players try 
to guess at Negative Traits they’ve never seen before. However, if you’re 
running a strictly Sabbat chronicle, then feel free to encourage your players to 
use these more “Sabbat-oriented” Traits. 
p HYSICAL 
Strength-related: Vicious 
Dexterity-related: Fierce 
Stamina-related: Deadly, Savage 
Miscellaneous Physical: Aggressive 
Aggressive: You are familiar with fighting, and eagerly match your opponent 
strike for strike. 
Uses: Combat 
Deadly: An indomitable strength of body, able to continue fighting despite 
damage. 
Uses: Combat. Fortitude tests. Second challenges or challenges after being 
wounded. 
Fierce: Driven by your will to win, swift movements are easy for you. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. 
Savage: You possess brutal intensity and an instinct for slaughter that rivals the 
most ferocious animals. 
Uses: Brute force. Fortitude challenges. Combat 
Vicious: You have a powerful urge to destroy, coupled with the wiry strength 
of a predator. 
Uses: Second or subsequent challenges. Dirty fighting 
NFC~ATIVE 
PHYSICAL 
Frail: You are fragile and easily broken. You always come out of a fight looking 
like you got the worst of it - 
even if you didn’t. 
Slow: The opposite of the Quick and Nimble Traits. You lack muscular 
coordination and are always a half-beat behind the rest. 
Soft: You lack the physical strength to carry out arduous tasks. 
SOCIAL 
Charisma-related: Intense, Threatening 
Manipulation-related: Callous, Cruel, Manipulative 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Callous: You are not easily swayed by the views of others, nor do you care what 
they think. 
Uses: Defending against Presence powers. Testing to perform an inhumane 
act. 
Cruel: With refined viciousness, you have the ability to precisely target the 
weaknesses of others. 
Uses: Presence or intrigue. Challenges used to control or harm others. 
Intense: You have an unnerving presence that draws the attention of others. 
Uses: Commanding the actions of others. Intimidation challenges. Inspiring 
fear. 
Manipulative: You can easily convince others in such a manner that they 
rarely notice your intentions. 
Uses: Dominate and Dementation challenges. Gauging the abilities and mental 
prowess of others. 
Threatening: Your presence actively makes others uncomfortable. 
Uses: Goading or insulting someone. Intimidation. Dread Guze challenges. 
NF~ATIVB 
SOCIAL 
Empathetic: Able to identify and commune with the emotions of 
others. In the Sabbat, the ability to feel strong emotions other than fear or 
hatred is disapproved and treated with scorn. Your “soft” ways earn you the 
ridicule of others. 
Kind: You still retain much of your Humanity, and for that, you are 
treated harshly by the other members of the Sabbat. Your actions disgust 
everyone around you. 
Meek: It is difficult for you to make your presence known, and you are 
often overlooked for honors or advancement. Further, your mild nature makes 
it difficult for you to enter combats; you often hesitate before acting. 
MENTAL 
Perception-related: Analytical 
Intelligence-related: Focused 
Wits-related: Insidious 
Miscellaneous Mental: Depraved, Inhumane 
Analytical: You believe in a strict mental regimen that guides your thoughts. 
Uses: Auspex challenges. Investigation. Noticing clues or anything out of 
place. 
Depraved: Your mind works in strange, unpleasant ways. 
Uses: Resisting Dominate challenges. Making a mental defense. 
Focused: You are fixated on a course of thought, and no distraction can drive 
you from it. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-related attacks. Maintaining concentration 
despite distractions. 
Inhumane: You are capable of acting without emotional shackles. 
Uses: Killing. Performing any action that would be considered brutal or violent 
Insidious: You are a master liar and conniver; few suspect you, and your 
betrayals are devastating. 
@ 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Uses: Infiltration. Disguise. Changing someone’s mind. 
NE~ATIVE 
MENTAL 
Deceitful: Occasional mistruths, minor adjustments to the facts and 
Squeamish: You have difficulty grasping the brutality of the world; 
Unstable: Your mind is constantly teetering on the edge, and anything 
misleading others all seem like second nature to you. 
everything is dirty, foul or uncomfortable. 
could upset the careful balancing act. 
STEP THREE: 
ADVANTA~FS 
No character begins play completely out of the void. A character has 
skills and knowledges, perhaps the ones that landed her the Embrace or ones 
she learned later. Furthermore, vampiric powers, called Disciplines, flow 
from the blood of all Cainites, granting them superhuman capabilities. 
Collectively, these Advantages are learned or developed benefits over and 
above one’s raw potential. 
A Sabbat character may not choose Backgrounds (although these may be 
purchased with Free Traits and with experience) at this time, but does receive 
an additional basic Discipline level. 
CHOOSIN~ 
ABILITIES 
Select five Abilities that represent your character’s education and train- 
ing. Whether learned in mortal days or honed after death, Abilities set your 
character apart by letting her attempt tasks that less skilled compatriots cannot 
understand or complete. You can choose an Ability multiple times, if desired, 
to show greater expertise. Note that your Storyteller may restrict some 
Abilities. Sabbat-specific Abilities are listed on page 60. 
CHOOSIN~ 
DISCIPLINES 
Select four Disciplines. You must select them in the order listed (that is, 
you must take the first Basic level before taking the second Basic level in any 
given Discipline), and you can only take the Basic levels at this time. All four 
of these Disciplines must come from your clan’s Disciplines, but you may take 
more than one level in any. If you are a Pander, you may simply choose any 
three Basic Disciplines desired, but your Storyteller may restrict you to the 
eight most common Disciplines - 
Animalism, Auspex, Celerity, Dominate, 
Fortitude, Obfuscate, Potence, Presence - 
unless you have an exceptional 
reason for learning a more specialized power. 
STEP EOUR: LAST TOUCHES 
At this stage, you should note your character’s total number of Blood Traits, 
Willpower Traits and Path Traits. Note that Paths of Enlightenment still use 
Virtue Traits, which come in three categories: Conscience / Conviction Traits, 
Self-Control / Instinct Traits and Courage Traits. You get seven Traits to split 
among these categories. Each category must range from one to five total Traits. 
For greater detail on each of these Trait categories, see Laws of the Night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


MORALITYTRAITS 
While your Virtue Traits represent your ability to hold off against the 
Beast, your Morality Traits show how closely you adhere to your chosen code 
of ethics. A high rating in your Morality Traits indicates that you set high 
standards for yourself, but you risk losing ground to the Beast even with 
relatively trivial violations of your chosen morals. Low Morality Traits 
indicate that you are close to losing control to the Beast forever. 
Your starting Morality Trait total equals the average of your Conscience / 
Conviction and Self-control / Instinct Traits, rounded up. During character 
creation, you may choose to lose one Morality Trait in exchange for gaining 
two Free Traits. You may do so only once - 
losing a Morality Trait counts as 
taking two Negative Traits. Be wamed though, that doing so is a dangerous 
course; a low Morality Trait total practically guarantees disintegration into 
Wassail, the final frenzy. 
NFC~ATIVE 
TRAITS, 
DERANC~EMENTS 
AND ELAWS 
Some characters have particular weaknesses or shortcomings. Others just 
never developed in some fashion or suffered injuries that set back otherwise 
strong attributes. Negative Traits represent these. Though Negative Traits are 
not required, they can represent a deficiency or injury in your character. 
In addition to Negative Traits, you can choose derangements for your 
character. A derangement represents some sort of mental instability or neurotic 
behavior. Taking a derangement counts as two Negative Traits and thus grants 
you two Free Traits, but you may only take one derangement at character 
creation (or one extra, in the case of Malkavians, who all start with one). 
Representing specific deficiencies or drawbacks aside from inherent weak- 
nesses common to many people, Flaws showcase particular problems. As with 
Negative Traits, Flaws grant additional Traits to the user. Each Flaw is rated in 
terms of its value, ranging from one to seven Traits. The higher the value, the 
more debilitating the Flaw. A character may total up to seven Traits of Flaws. 
EREE TRAITS 
AND MERITS 
Because no two Cainites are alike, each character gets five Free Traits. 
Additional FreeTraitsare eamedfromNegativeTraits, Flawsorderangements 
taken earlier, or by removing Morality Traits. One Negative Trait grants a 
single Free Trait. Aderangement or Morality Trait is worth two Free Traits and 
Flaws have variable values listed individually. For details on how to spend your 
Free Traits, see Laws of the Night. 
Purchasing Merits is one way to spend Free Traits. Merits represent special 
bonuses and capabilities beyond the norm. Each Merit is rated in terms of its 
Trait value. To take a Merit, you must expend Free Traits equal to the Merit’s 
value. You can take no more than seven Traits of Merits, total (though some 
older vampires may have more). 
STEP EIVF: SPARK 
OE LIEE 
Your character is more than a summation of Traits and adjectives. At this 
stage, take the concepts that you’ve emphasized and develop a story for your 
character. Why did your character learn certain things? What circumstances 
t- 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


made her grow and change? Think about the sort of person that you’re playing 
and the motives of the individual. For more specific details, see the suggestions 
given in Laws of the Night. 
SONS 
AND DAUC~HTFRS 
OE CAINF 
Sabbat characters have a few other particulars that must be addressed 
during creation. What is her political leaning? What Path of Enlightenment 
does she follow? Is she involved in the sect’s spiritual side, or is she just this side 
of a rampaging monster? 
There are two types of “people” that become members of the Sabbat: those 
who were considered by their sires to be good additions to the sect and those 
who survived mass Embrace by some fluke. When you start creating your 
Sabbat character, take some time to decide what brought him to his sire’s 
attention. Did he happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, or was 
he watched for several months or even years? Your character’s mortal life can 
be a good place to begin the character creation process, even if a large part of 
it was purged during his Creation Rites - 
it may help you with determining 
if he was brought in with a purpose or as cannon fodder. 
The process of Embrace is meant to winnow the weak from the strong. A 
potential member is Embraced, then “shoveled” (slammed on the back of the 
head with a shovel and buried in a grave which she may have dug herself) and 
then forced to dig herself out with her own hands. If she survives this test, she 
is considered a False Sabbat member. Traditionally, the period during which 
a member of Sabbat is considered “False” is strewn with tests of strength and 
savagery. These tests serve to drive out any humanity that the character retains 
as well as to teach her Sabbat values. Many False Sabbat do not survive this 
time of testing, either destroyed for weakness or caught by an enemy. How did 
your character survive her testing? Is she still False Sabbat, still proving herself? 
Even after becoming Proven, the new True Sabbat must carve a place for 
herself in the local hierarchy. The Sabbat’s pecking order is ruthless, and any 
character unable to stand her ground will be crushed beneath the heel of those 
more powerful or cunning. Did she have a position, only to lose it, or is she 
uninterested in the sect’s ladders of power? Did she suffer when someone else 
fell from grace? 
p OLITICS 
The political stance a member of the Sabbat takes is no less important 
than her Path of Enlightenment or clan. Central to this political debate are the 
dual and opposing roles of the two main Sabbat ideals: freedom and loyalty to 
the sect. The rest are just details. 
The struggle over ideology continues to pull the Sabbat in different 
directions and is perhaps their greatest internal enemy, affecting even how a 
particular Sabbat views status, who she will take orders fromand even if she will 
take orders at all. Thus, knowing what political faction your character belongs 
to can be as central as her Nature in determining how she reacts to a situation. 
Loyalists represent the far left wing within the Sabbat; in a way, they can 
be thought of as the Sabbat’s “anarchs.” Loyalists believe that the only way to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


be loyal to the Sabbat is to follow the original principle of the Anarch 
Movement - 
that all vampires must be free and ultimately responsible for 
their own actions. Orders, rules and regulations that restrict the freedom and 
responsibility of the vampire must be removed. 
The Moderates represent the vast middle ground of the Sabbat; roughly 
three-quarters of the sect is divided between them and the Status Quo. Many 
antitribu belong to the Moderates. Many Moderates have contacts with all of 
the factions and generally have the most flexibility. Neither far left nor far 
right, they believe in balance but tend to favor the side of freedom. 
The Pander Movement represents what the Moderates could become if 
they changed their focus from greater freedom to greater power. Not all 
Panders share this mindset, but other moderates from other clans tread very 
close to their philosophy of convenience over ideals. The Panders focus on 
doing whatever is necessary to gain as much power and authority within the 
Sabbat; if it means supporting the Status Quo one week and allying with the 
Loyalists the next, they’ll do so to save their skin. 
The Status Quo represents the system of leadership and authority that has 
kept the Sabbat together since the last destructive Sabbat civil war. The 
current hierarchy of the Sabbat is a testament to the Status Quo as it is their 
vision made flesh. The Status Quo literally seeks to keep things the way that 
they are and work within their current systems, believing that allowing 
members a looser rein will compromise the secrecy and security of the sect. 
The Ultra-Conservatives represent the far right hand of the equation and 
are the smallest faction in the Sabbat. Leaders that are weak need to be culled, 
and Sabbat that break the Code or disobey critical orders need to be purged 
before the sect falls to the Antediluvians. 
Jumping into political factions during character creation can be confus- 
ing, particularly if you’ve never played in a Sabbat chronicle before. If this is 
the case, consider playing a freshly minted Sabbat (newly Proven or False), and 
let the game’s action guide your choice of politics. 
PATHS 
The Sabbat has the reputation of being bloody and nonhuman, and that 
reputation is deserved. The majority of the vampires in the Sabbat do not follow 
the ethics of the Camarilla, having long ago spumed Humanity in favor of their 
more monstrous selves. The Paths of Enlightenment, like those presented in 
Laws of the Night, are alternate codes of morality, meant to help a vampire 
control his Beast. While moral quandaries still face the vampires of the Sabbat, 
they are of a different nature. Listed below is a list of the most common Paths in 
the Sabbat; more detailed information on these paths can be found in Chapter 
Four. All Paths value Courage, but differ in other Virtues they prize. 
PATH 
OE CAINE 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
Comprised of ancient scholars and mystics, the Path of Caine seeks for the 
keys to the enigma of vampiric existence, believing Caine to be the progenitor 
and paragon of all vampires. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


PATH 
OE CATHARI 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
Cathari vampires believe in the old Albigensian heresy - 
that the forces of 
Light and the forces of Darkness are at continual odds with each other, and in the 
end, only one will triumph. They consider themselves the servants of Darkness and 
spread wickedness, believing that they are aiding Darkness and testing Light. 
PATH 
oe DEATH 
AND THE SOUL 
Virtues: Conviction and Self-Control 
Those on the Path of Death and the Soul are cold, emotionless beings that 
devote their lives to the study of death and its consequences. To understand 
the purpose of existence, they say, one must know what motivates and drives 
the immortal soul. 
PATH 
O E  THE EERAL HEART 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
To hunt, to kill, to be the ultimate predator -these 
are the goals of those 
who follow the Path of the Feral Heart. They believe that vampires are the 
ultimate hunters, and that their purpose in unlife is to accept the predator that 
exists within their hearts. 
PATH 
01; HONORABLE 
ACCORD 
Virtues: Conscience and Self-control 
The Path of Honorable Accord was created to represent the ideals set 
down in the Code of Milan and to give a voice to the laws that govern the 
Sabbat. Its followers are expected to be hospitable to other Sabbat members 
and uphold leaders that work toward the goals of the Sabbat. 
PATH 
O E  POWER 
AND THE INNER 
VOICE 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
Those on this Path see the exercise of power and control as the best reason 
for Cainite unlife. They believe that Cainites have been set above mortals, and 
they must accept their existence as superior beings. In doing so, they strive to 
control their own souls through harsh discipline and ruthless strength. 
PATH 
O E  FVIL 
REVELATIONS 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
Some vampires revel in their evil natures, but the Corruptors go one step 
further - 
they actively sell themselves to the infernal forces and seek others 
for sacrifice. Vampires are already damned, they reason - 
one might as well 
be on the winning side. 
PATH 
O E  LILITH 
Virtues: Conviction and Instinct 
This Path is considered heretical by most Cainites of the Sabbat. These 
vampires follow the doctrines and dictates outlined by Lilith, the Dark Mother 
of Noddist teachings. The Bahari consider themselves children to a greater 
power, and they learn through surviving trial and pain. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ABILITIES 
The Sabbat is an ever-changing arena of war and personal power. 
Members are expected to be knowledgeable in a vast array of subjects, from the 
sect’s history and traditions to battle tactics against the Camarilla’s pawns. 
These are the tricks of the trade, the hard-earned rewards of those who survive 
in the sect. Abilities aid the outcome of actions, give the character knowledge 
and an understanding of the world around her and describe how competent a 
character is in her chosen fields. 
The Abilities listed in the Laws of the Night are all applicable to the 
Sabbat venue; those listed below are additional Sabbat-only Abilities. 
Blindfighting 
Many Sabbat games and Monomacy ritual fights require use of this 
Ability. Blindjightingmeans you are practiced at fightingwithout the aidof your 
eyes. You’ve learned to use your instincts, hearing and innate hunter nature 
instead of sight. You may use this Ability to retest in any Brawl challenge that 
occurs in the dark or while blindfolded. 
Fire Dancing 
You can enter a trancelike state that relieves you from Rotschreck and allows 
you to leap bonfires and burning coals during Fire Dance rituals. You do not get 
nervous around fire if you take the time to sit apart and meditate for five minutes 
before encountering the flames closely. However, unless a fire is specifically built 
as a ritual bonfire, you still suffer the same Rotschreck as anyone else. 
Fortune-telling 
Tea leaves, Tarot cards, runes, I Ching sticks, a swinging pendulum or 
entrails - 
these are the tools you call upon to read the future. Whether or not 
you have the actual psychic chutzpah to do this is up to the Storyteller, but at 
the very least, you can put on a good show and part the gullible from their 
money. Using Fortune-telling requires you to specify at least one divination 
method and may require Social Challenges to pull off a good performance. 
Rituals 
You know the rituals and ritae of the Sabbat and can perform them 
whenever the occasion requires. This Ability is vital to being a pack priest: 
Unless the character performing the ria has this knowledge, the ritue will fail. 
This Ability is not simply the knowledge of such rituals, but is a spiritual, 
almost supernatural ability to perform them. This Ability is typically taught to 
pack priests and other spiritual leaders, and a Sabbat who is not a priest but 
possesses such knowledge may come under scrutiny. 
Torture 
You know how to inflict pain and are efficient at doing so. This Ability 
allows you to retest any Physical Challenge when you are in a torture situation 
- i.e., when you have already caused pain to your opponent and are 
continuing to inflict pain (not damage). Regular combat is not an appropriate 
use of this Ability; this can be used for retesting when inflicting pain on your 
opponent either during an interrogation or when using Disciplines. 
Vamp 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


You can use your seductive means to get any information from anyone. 
Your advances could make a sailor blush, and you know how to tailor them to 
the individual. Remember, however, that you will still need to spend blood in 
order to make yourself appear human to ordinary sight and touch. This Ability 
can be used in appropriate Presence retests, as well as in unique interrogation 
circumstances. Bear in mind that vampires on Paths of Enlightenment may not 
spend blood to make themselves appear more human, and many vampires find 
the idea of such base acts to be no better than animals coupling (benefits aside). 
BACK~ROUNDS 
Sabbat do not receive free Backgrounds at character creation and must 
purchase all Backgrounds. Examples and definitions of character Backgrounds can 
be found in Laws of the Night, although they will have a slightly different slant 
in a Sabbat chronicle. Remember that Backgrounds like Allies, Contacts or 
influence mean interaction with mortals on some level, and most Sabbat consider 
mortals inferior - 
tolerated at best, or no better than food at worst. While it’s not 
inconceivable that a Sabbat vampire might somehow still have ties to the mortal 
world, such ties are best kept hidden - 
after all, who would want it known that 
he actually needs mortals for anything? If you’re going to have them, give some 
thought to how you acquired these Backgrounds and how you keep them up. 
STATUS 
Sabbat status and dynamics are very different from those of the Camarilla. 
The fundamental systems are different, as are the means and uses of Status 
within the Sabbat. Sabbat may use Status to force another sect member to back 
down or bid it in a Social Challenge in place of a normal Social Trait. 
Characters can ignore Status, but only at the price of not being able to use their 
Status for the rest of the session. Status is accrued by actions, accomplishments 
or taking up positions within the sect that carry a certain amount of prestige. 
See more on Status and its uses in Chapter Six. 
DFRAN~FMBNTS 
The derangements listed here seem to be peculiar to the Sabbat; indeed, 
many of the sect’s members suffer some form of instability, whether from the 
trauma of the Embrace or some other event. A Malkavianantitrih may select her 
initial derangement from this list or from the more “common” ones found in 
Laws of the Night. 
Berserk 
You have tremendous difficulty controlling your anger and frustration. 
When confronted with stressful situations, you often lose control, lashing out 
at those unfortunate enough to cross your path, whether friend or foe. The 
bloodlust and violence of the Sabbat suits you well; indeed, the sect seems to 
breed this kind of madness. You must win two Simple Tests to avoid frenzy. 
Blood Addict 
You are addicted to the blood of your pack. It gives you a physical and 
emotional high that can’t be beat. For every period of six hours you go without 
consuming pack vitae, you lose one Physical Trait until you get your fix. When 
you wake, you are down one Physical Trait until you get pack blood. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood Sweats 
When you’re stressed, you get so nervous and agitated that your state of mind 
affects your body. Much like a mortal may become jumpy and break out in cold 
sweats, you become likewise ill at ease. The “sweat” in your case, however, is 
blood that works its way to your skin. This blood is very obvious in your sleeping 
environs, not to mention staining your clothes and making you adisturbing sight 
to vampires and mortals alike. Blood sweats cause you to begin play each night 
an additional point down in your Blood Pool. In addition, the blood is quite 
obvious (your clothes are stained not long after changing, and you “perspire” 
continuously), and you’re often nervous and twitchy. 
Blood Taste 
You hate the taste of blood. Your body craves it, but you think it tastes 
disgusting. You go out of your way to feed on drunks (the alcohol helps kill the 
taste), even hanging out in mortal bars. The Vaulderie is torture; one person’s 
blood is bad enough by itself, but the blood of a whole pack let out to go stale in 
the air like that is really vile. You must win or tie a Static Test each time you 
participate in the Vaulderie to see if you spit out the blood. If you fail the test, you 
must bum a Willpower Trait if you wish to keep the noxious fluid in your mouth. 
Creation Memory 
High stress, especially violence, usually triggers plaguing memories of your 
Creation Rites. Whenever you see a Storyteller, hear a specific word or 
encounter acertain type ofevent, your thoughts will immediately return to the 
time of your creation, and you feel a pressing need to share these memories with 
whoever is around. Characters may play this derangement as anything from a 
near-frenzy to the burning desire to tell anecdotes. You are down one Mental 
Trait whenever you lapse into these memories. 
Gluttony 
Gluttonous vampires have difficulty taking their sustenance in modera- 
tion. Why stop when one is merely sated? Why not drink in the heady vitae 
until there is no more?This derangement is particularly prevalent among elder 
vampires who have indulged their vices for so long that they lack the ability 
to control their hunger. Vampires suffering from this derangement must spend 
a Willpower Trait when they wish to stop feeding. A gluttonous vampire 
automatically frenzies when confronted with the sight, smell or taste of blood 
when hungry (blood pool is at 3 or less), and may be continuously “snacking”, 
despite not needing more (such overeating may lead to many episodes of bloat, 
where an overfull vampire sheds blood tears and has pronounced ruddy skin). 
Obsession 
You are obsessed with someone in your pack. You have a permanent 
Vinculum of 10 for her and can’t shake the desire to be constantly in her 
business and affection. You try to suck up as much of her attention and blood 
as you can to prevent others from getting what you crave. 
Pack Feeding 
You believe you can no longer feed on mortals or vampires other than 
those in your pack and become ill when vitae from other sources passes into 
your system. Your Vinculum ratings are at two higher than whatever the results 
of the night’s Vaulderie. No one is sure if this is a psychological condition or 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


a physical addiction, but it is reality for you. This derangement makes diablerie 
almost impossible, and it is up to the Storyteller whether or not you may spend 
Willpower Traits to attempt diablerie or feed from another source. 
Paranoid of Ancients 
Everyone and everything that is not expressly Sabbat is a tool of the 
Antediluvians and dedicated to your personal destruction. All of your loyal 
comrades are doomed along with you. You are suspicious and wary of anything 
outside the sect and will not infiltrate the Camarilla for fear of being 
subliminally taken over by their ancient masters. You insist that those who 
have made contact outside the sect be purified to be sure they have not been 
overcome by the influences of the Ancients themselves. 
Passion Player 
While you strongly dislike and refuse to take part in torture, you believe that 
killing is your divine duty. Camarillavampires avoid killing because they disrespect 
their Creator’s wishes. They hide behind the Masquerade even when they do kill, 
though it is God’s will for them to reveal themselves as the angels ofdeath that they 
are. Each time you kill, you make sure your victim knows exactly what you are first. 
Phobia 
Something in your past affected you deeply. It may be the sight of a shovel or 
the feeling of cold water around your body, but you have an instinctual trigger that 
causes you to frenzy. If this trigger affects you, you must test as if for Rotschreck. This 
Phobia frenzy, if entered, does not cause any lasting Negative Traits. 
Ritual Freak 
The more rituals your pack performs, the happier you are. You insist on 
Vaulderie at least twice a night, once at rising and once before sleep. You 
encourage others to participate in rituals before every anticipated combat and 
after every unanticipated one. You believe a Sabbat priest should bless 
everyone who ventures into the Camarilla’s realm, whether to fight, cause 
trouble or infiltrate, and purify them upon each return. 
MERITS 
AND ELAWS 
PHYSICAL 
Early Riser (1 Trait Merit) 
No one can explain it, but you seem to have the ability to exist on less rest 
than your fellow packmates do, tending to rise at least one hour before 
everyone else. You always seem to be the first to rise and the last to go to bed, 
even if you’ve been out until dawn. While your packmates may still be groggy, 
you’re awake and aware. You may awaken early, or remain awake late, with no 
need to expend Willpower during the first or last hour of light to stay awake. 
Vulnerability to Silver (2 Trait Flaw) 
To you, silver is as painful and as deadly as the rays of the sun. You suffer 
aggravated wounds from any silver weapons (bullets, knives, etc) and the mere 
touch of silver objects pains you. Further, you are one Trait down when in 
contact with the metal. 
Lazy (3 Trait Flaw) 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


You avoid anything that requires effort on your part. For any actions that 
require preparation, there’s a good chance you didn’t properly prepare. You are 
down one Trait for any spontaneous actions (including combat, unless it is part 
of a planned offensive). 
Infertile Vitae (5 Trait Flaw) 
During your Embrace, something went horribly wrong, causing your blood 
to mutate under the stress of dying and rising again. All those you try to 
Embrace die. No matter what you do, you may not create any childer. You can 
still use your blood in the Vaulderie or for any other vampiric need, including 
making ghouls. Blood Brothers may not take this Flaw. 
SOCIAL 
Sanctity (2 Trait Merit) 
This Merit is sometimes called the halo effect; everyone considers you 
pure and innocent, though not necessarily naive. You have a saintlike quality 
that is hard to pinpoint but cannot be denied. You are trusted, even if you are 
not trustworthy. At the Storyteller’s discretion, you tend to receive lesser 
punishments for wrongdoing, and most Cainites and humans like you. You are 
two Traits up when initiating non-aggressive social challenges. 
Special Responsibility (1 Trait Flaw) 
Shortly after your Embrace, you volunteered for some task in order to gain 
respect and approval from your pack members. Now, you wish you had never 
opened your damn mouth! While no one gives you any special credit for 
performing this duty, you would lose much respect from the pack if you were to stop. 
The Storyteller should work out the nature and details of your duty in advance. 
Ideas can range from lending money to pack members to acting as pack messenger 
or possibly a constant responsibility to gather victims for Blood Feasts. You must 
define your duty before beginning play, and if you refuse to perform your duty at any 
time, you are stripped of one Status per game session until you resume your duty. 
MENTAL 
Introspection (1 Trait Merit) 
You have keen insight into your own psyche, making you concretely aware 
of the motives of all your actions. You also have incredible insight into the 
underlying motives behind the actions of others. You are two Traits up when 
attempting to use the Subterfuge Ability to discover the Negative Traits of 
someone with the same Nature or Demeanor as yours or when attempting to 
perceive that character’s aura. 
Flashbacks (6 Trait Flaw) 
You managed to make it through the Creation Rites, but not wholly 
intact. The most insignificant thing can throw you into a different mood or 
state of mind. Your behavior is extremely unpredictable. Because of your 
precarious emotional state, your Willpower fluctuates. At the beginning of 
eachsession, make a Simple Test with your Storyteller (no Traits risked). If you 
succeed, you may participate in the night’s game as normal. If you fail, 
however, you may only spend a single Willpower during the session. You may 
still use your total number of Willpower for Tests, but may only spend one 
Willpower Trait during the session. You may test again at the beginning of the 
next night to see if you 
e 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


* 
i 
t 
PATHS 
OE FNLI~HTFNMFNT 
The Sabbat view of the Cainite condition rejects all ties to humanity. 
Vampires are dead, won’t ever be alive again and now exist in a realm of 
experience wholly unlike anything mortals know. While this rejection opens 
up many possibilities for Sabbat vampires, it doesn’t free them from the basic 
facts of their own nature. Each Sabbat vampire, just like each Camarilla and 
independent vampire, must keep the Beast in check. Reveling in one’s 
capabilities as a hunter is one thing; losing all capacity for thought forever, 
doomed to feed mindlessly until someone destroys the brute that once was a 
vampire, is another. 
Harsh experience shows the Sabbat that vampires retain the need for 
some code of ethics, principles to guide and limit their behavior. Many junior 
members of the Sabbat and a handful of elders continue to follow the Path of 
Humanity. They’re not very good at it, but it does keep them apace or two back 
from the brink of Wassail. A great many Sabbat neonates perish in a few 
months or years; Sabbat priests often refrain from teaching any Path at all until 
their new recruits show signs of surviving to become something more than 
cannon fodder. Some vampires take immediately to a Path with an instinctive 
drive from the moment of their creation while others never feel the need to 
give up Humanity altogether. 
Progress on any Path of Enlightenment takes deliberate effort. The Paths 
are supposed to be inhuman. Each one exalts an aspect of Cainite nature, 
history or alleged destiny instead of some aspect of human nature. No mortal 
instinct or doctrine really prepares a vampire to follow a Path. By definition, 
following a Path means not acting in a human or humane manner. 
The Paths can make real trouble in a LARP. Storytellers must prepare to 
spend some time watching players and reining in self-indulgent acts of random 
violence and disruption. It’s far more difficult to identify with characters well 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


advanced on a Path than with characters of high Humanity. Specific parts 
of various Paths do connect to elements of human experience, but the overall 
synthesis of each is unique and inhuman. Players and Storytellers who 
cooperate with each other in maintaining an awareness of what the Paths 
mean in practice and thinking about what the events of each scene imply for 
adherents of the various Paths get the reward of an engaging, rich, satisfying 
game despite the reduced intuitive identification. 
At the outset, Storytellers must make it clear that the Paths are not 
license to run wild. Indeed, the upper levels of each Path restrict a character’s 
power of choice far more than Humanity does. A vampire who commits to 
a Path sets aside many emotions, desires and values to pursue a very limited 
set of goals. Paths that include Instinct as one of the Virtues require their 
adherents to enter frenzy, and merely make it possible to maintain limited 
control in some turns. Vampires find, as they advance along their Paths, that 
their choices of goals, of friends and associates, and of every other aspect of 
their existence become highly focused. The Paths close doors of choice at 
every step; characters and players alike should think carefully. 
THE PATH 
O E  CAINF 
Followers of the Path of Caine, or Noddists, focus on Caine as the 
first and perfect vampire. All deficiencies of the Cainite condition stem 
from vampires’ distance from Caine. A Noddist has two duties: to study 
every available scrap of information about Caine and the nature of 
vampires (including the duty to uncover more information) and to apply 
that knowledge to purging human limitations on the way to achieving 
vampiric completion. 
Noddists believe that academic study only takes them so far. It’s 
good to read history, autobiographies and the like, but to really appre- 
ciate another vampire’s experience requires more. Specifically, it requires 
diablerie. A Noddist who drains the essence of another vampires gets the 
victim’s whole essence and sees the world, briefly, through another’s 
eyes, sharing another’s memories and thinking another’s thoughts. 
Noddists never undertake diablerie lightly. It’s a sacred moment on the 
step to unity with Caine’s perfect state; it requires preparation before- 
hand and serious contemplation afterward. 
Cainite occultists created the Path of Caine in the 16th century. 
Ironically, they drew precisely the sort of inspiration from mortal 
affairs - 
in particular, the Enlightenment and its emphasis on reason 
anchored in historical study- 
that their Path rejects. The Camarilla’s 
relentless advocacy of Humanity as the only safe moral code rankled 
the first Noddists. They had to acknowledge that most Paths force 
vampires into behavior that invites mortal reprisal but didn’t want to 
accept the Camarilla’s solution. Thus the Path of Caine includes its 
own version of the Masquerade while allowing (even encouraging) 
what the Camarilla abhors. 
A t  any given time, only a handful of vampires pursue the Path of 
Caine. It’s rigorous and scholarly. Vampires who focus on the (un)life of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the mind seldom flourish in the Sabbat, and very few non-Sabbat 
vampires would accept some of the Path’s key tenets. Noddist scholar- 
ship doesn’t always happen in cloistered laboratories: Noddists lead war 
parties, act as bishops and roam with wandering packs, all in the effort 
to understand Caine’s life as a warrior, leader and wanderer. Modern 
Noddists often say that the Final Nights are a time of active scholarship, 
with passive book study waiting for calmer times to return. 
Vampires on the Path of Caine practice Conviction and Instinct. 
THE FTHICS 
OE THE PATH 
Study Caine’s history and act as much like Caine as you can. 
The Beast is one more part of your nature. Increase your will and instinct 
Take the vitae of unworthy vampires and study the insights their 
Purge whatever remains of your lost Humanity. Develop the potential 
Test your own limits, and test others with suitable challenges. Find out 
so that you can master it just like the rest of yourself. 
sacrifice offers you. Make yourself worthy through wise action. 
in you now. 
what vampires can do so that you know what goals to set for yourself. 
EOLLOWIN~ 
THE PATH 
Noddists tend to be better educated and more reserved than the 
vampires around them, although some Noddists lived without interest 
in scholarly matters and developed their love of learning after the 
Embrace. They study Caine for practical reasons: They want to make the 
best possible use of their condition. Theory only matters when it guides 
action, either suggesting a line of research or guiding the choice between 
alternative courses of action. Assamite antitribu often favor the Path of 
Caine as the equivalent of the Path of Blood without the cowardice. 
Serpents of the Light, Toreador antitribu and Ventrue antitribu make up 
most of the rest of the Path’s followers. They often gravitate to positions 
of spiritual leadership. Their comrades in the Sabbat generally view 
them as haughty and vain. 
Noddists stay out of most Sabbat politics. Power structures don’t 
interest them - 
Caine was above all hierarchy, after all. As priests, 
Noddists make very even-handed instructors, seeing the potential for 
perfection in every vampire along with the need to begin with what- 
ever talents a vampire has right now. All Noddists like to share their 
insights with others so that as many vampires as possible can achieve 
unity with Caine. 
The research aspects of the Path of Caine encourage vampires to 
develop Occult and Lore Abilities of all kinds. Since the Path also 
encourages practical action, Noddists often study Survival, Melee and 
Athletics. Proselytizers find Expression, Subterfuge and Leadership useful. 
Most Noddists frown on the Disciplines that don’t appear in the 
common texts of the Book of Nod, preferring Disciplines that enhance 
innate abilities: Auspex, Celerity, Fortitude, Potence and Presence. Some 
Noddists shun esoteric Disciplines like Thaumaturgy and Serpentis while 
+- 
I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


others study them as interesting sidelights that simply aren’t as important 
as the core Disciplines attributed to Caine himself. 
The First Impulse 
Some vampires, fresh from a shovel party, crawl from their graves filled 
with adetermination to be the perfect vampire, since vampires they must be. 
Other vampires, recruited more selectively, accept the Embrace for its 
promise of power. They want to have it all, everything the Cainite condition 
makes possible. The Sabbat’s spiritual advisors recognize this drive for 
vampiric perfection as an indication that the new recruits might flourish on 
the Path of Caine. 
THE PATH 
OE CATHARI 
Followers of the Path of Cathari, who call themselves Albigensians or 
Gnostics, hold to a mystical tradition which identifies two Gods. The pure 
and good God of Light made everything spiritual while the corrupt and 
evil God of Darkness made everything material. The idea surfaced again 
and again among believers in Classical and medieval times: Zoroastrian- 
ism and Manicheism made the two Gods equal while Gnostic groups 
within Judaism and Christianity declared the God of Darkness doomed to 
ultimate destruction. In the 12th and 13th centuries, the Cathar heresy’s 
version of this dualist view of the world displaced mainstream Christianity 
in southern France. The Albigensian Crusade marked its violent end - 
the Bishop of Citeaux gave the famous advice “Kill them all; God will 
know His own” to the soldiers who then slaughtered every suspected 
heretic. The idea surfaced in future centuries, but never as successfully as 
during the Cathar era. 
Some desperate Cathars accepted local vampires’ offer of shelter or 
escape and were Embraced. As the truth of their new condition sank in, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


those Cathars who didn’t give themselves up to the sun set about system- 
atically defining their place in the world. Vampires are the perfect 
creatures of Darkness, their spirit locked in flesh forever and their 
existence confined to the hours when darkness rules. They therefore took 
up the burden of being the foremost servants of Darkness. They test the 
weaknesses of Light: Anything that they can destroy deserves to perish. 
Since former Cathars created the Path as an actual codified doctrine, it 
bears the name of Cathari. Older vampires who’d already developed 
similar views adopted the practice without necessarily endorsing the 
name, and even in the Final Nights, followers of the Path still argue about 
its most proper title. 
The Path of Cathari directs adherents to engage in every form of vice 
and indulgence.. . but not capriciously. Cathari vampires fight on the 
front lines of the cosmic war. They must tempt every child of the Light, 
then destroy all who prove weak or uncommitted. Private sins don’t 
matter to the Cathari, only the sins that lead others to fall. Some Cathari 
believe that in the last moment of history, the Light will prevail and 
they’ll be destroyed like Darkness itself. They accept this and focus on 
doing their duty in the meantime so that what remains in that final 
moment will stand strong, tested and purified. Other Cathari believe the 
outcome of the cosmic war is in doubt and that if Darkness wins. it 
deserves to. 
Cathari do not kill anyone lightly. An imposed death interrupts the 
process of a soul’s collapse from within, unlike suicide, being shot while 
resisting arrest or any of the deaths that come from a falling mortal’s own 
actions. Cathari practice mastering frenzy to avoid strengthening the 
forces of Light with the ill-timed removal of a new recruit to Darkness. 
Sometimes a follower of this Path decides, after calm reflection, that a 
mortal or Cainite must die to further the overall course of the war. The 
Gnostic then kills deliberately and coolly, trying to derive as little 
pleasure from the process as possible. Like the mortal dualists they once 
were, the Cathari teach that souls reincarnate. They want to make sure 
that people reincarnate badly rather than well, which means letting 
corruption flourish fully. 
Vampires on the Path of Cathari practice Conviction and Instinct. 
THE 
FTHICS 
OP 
THE PATH 
Sin gloriously. Indulge every capacity of your senses, reveling in the 
potential of the material world. The world is corrupt, and it is yours to rule. 
Lead others into temptation. Everyone who succumbs is your lawful 
Prey. 
Embrace the most passionate mortals. Strengthen Darkness with the fire 
of conviction and desire. 
Fate made you what you are. Accept your destiny - 
fulfill it, don’t try 
to flee it. 
Until the final victory of Light or Darkness, all souls reincarnate. 
Mortals return so you can kill them again and again. If you meet Final Death, 
you’ll return as mortal yourself and may not earn your current status again. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


E O L L O W I N ~  
THE PATH 
Cathari take satisfaction in their role as masters of the world. They 
move freely and easily through mortal society. Nothing human beings do 
surprises old Cathari: There are no new sins, only new applications of the 
same failings. Cathari almost all agree that Darkness’ triumph grows 
nearer every night. 
The Path of Cathari calls its practitioners to deal with others. Almost 
all Cathari emphasize Social Attributes and Abilities. Subterfuge and 
Streetwise let Cathari find their next victims and set up the targets’ falls. 
Finance and Bureaucracy help out when Cathari aim for the upper classes. 
A handful of scholarly Cathari - 
almost all of whom either practiced the 
path’s various pre-Albigensian forms or are the childer of such old Cathari 
- 
study the historical and theological context of the Path and rely on 
Academics and Occult. 
Cathari favor the Disciplines that let them corrupt and control 
others. Dominate and Presence are essential. Not many Cathari get the 
opportunity to learn Chimerstry, but those that do treasure it. Animalism’s 
ability to interfere with sentient souls pleases the Cathari; only the most 
profoundly dedicated followers of the Path worry about winning the souls 
of animals to Darkness. 
The First Impulse 
Some people leave the living world gladly. Whether they expressed 
their loathing loudly (perhaps supported with firepower) or lived with 
quiet curses, they hated humanity and everything beneath the sun. People 
like this accept vampirism, eager for the chance to separate themselves 
from the daylight world and bring it all down. They’re natural adherents 
of the Path of Cathari if they’ll accept training about how to transmute 
raw hatred into specific ethical precepts. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE PATH 
O E  DEATH 
AND THE SOUL 
Necronomists - 
followers of the Path of Death and the Soul - 
study 
that part of themselves (and others) which remains aware after vital 
processes stop. Vampiric unlife illuminates normal death and life because 
it is poised in between them, making clear the boundaries and contours 
that normally remain hidden by simple death. After isolating the dis- 
tinctly mortal components of existence, Necronomists can then grasp the 
true form of spirit. 
Necronomists reject both the immortality of ghosts and the endless 
undead existence of vampires. They seek spiritual mastery, not mere 
disengagement, and freedom from all mortal and vampiric limits. Every- 
thing in the universe begins with spirit - 
the truly enlightened soul might 
include everything that is within its existence and rewrite the book of the 
world to suit itself. 
According to Necronomists, the heart anchors the soul in its body. 
Vampire hearts are so vulnerable precisely because vampires shed so much 
of the armor of mortal life. A vampire’s soul withdrew at Embrace from 
most vital functions to concentrate itself in the heart. Small wonder that 
a simple wooden stake can destroy such potent force. The Path of Death 
and the Soul encourages experimentation to overcome this limitation 
along with all others. 
Vampires on the Path of Death and the Soul practice Conviction and 
Self-control. 
THE 
€THICS OE THE PATH 
Death releases the soul. Understand how and why this process works. 
Everything material reflects preexisting spiritual patterns. Discover 
those patterns and learn how the world truly works. 
Do not fear Final Death. Like all others, your soul is immortal and will 
endure in some form you do not yet know. 
Reason and emotion both express the soul’s underlying state beneath all 
expression finite beings understand. Discover each soul’s unique composition 
by studying how it manifests in behavior. 
Everything contains a piece of the truth, however disguised. Pierce every 
veil of myth and ignorance. 
EOLLOWINC~ 
THE PATH 
Tzimisce scholars developed this Path in antiquity; it’s the oldest of 
the common Sabbat Paths by at least a thousand years. It replaces 
conventional morality with a drive that contains both intellectual and 
emotional elements, guiding behavior without endorsing human as- 
sumptions. (After all, still-living beings can scarcely understand existence 
without life.) During the Inquisition and Enlightenment, the Path 
picked up accretions from new scientific and occult theories, undergo- 
ing revision at the same time several other Paths got started. Most of its 
practitioners belong to the Sabbat, but not all. It appeals to a minority 
of studious vampires who reject all sect affiliation as mere distraction 
from the real great work of Cainites. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Necronomists seek to isolate soul manifestations by making them 
pure and intense. Everything must be extreme: all-consuming rage, blind- 
ing pain, overwhelming love and utterly dispassionate reason alike all 
illuminate the soul. Necronomists generally devote themselves to study- 
ing a few manifestations at time, then moving on when they feel they’ve 
mastered that realm of existence. Outsiders regard Necronomists as 
obsessive even by Sabbat standards since a dedicated Necronomist gener- 
ally loses interest in everything but her current topic. When concerned 
with leadership, strategy and the like, Necronomists make excellent 
leaders. The rest of the time they exist on the fringes of Sabbat society; 
Necronomists currently studying pain often serve as torturers, but most 
Necronomist research simply doesn’t matter to the vampires around 
them. 
Unless they’re experimenting on themselves to understand emo- 
tional states better, Necronomists present an icily rational and detached 
demeanor. They know that passion clouds perception, and while they find 
others’ confusion fascinating, they don’t want to confuse themselves. 
Tzimisce (both of the main clan and the Old Clan) generally lead 
Necronomist groups. Most of their followers come from the ranks of 
Malkavian and Toreador antitribu, although the Path appeals to a handful 
of vampires in every clan. Harbingers of Skulls often pursue this Path in 
solitary study. 
Almost all followers of the Path of Death and Soul make Mental 
Attributes primary. They learn as much Occult, Academics, Medicine, 
Investigation and related Abilities as their generational limits allow, 
forsaking other concerns except insofar as some personal mastery might 
help them understand research subjects better. 
Necromancy and Thaumturgy provide the Necronomist’s primary 
tools, while Auspex allows fuller data collection. Vicissitude allows 
Necronomists interested in matters of the physical heart to experiment 
widely; other Necronomists can take it or leave it. Necronomists seldom 
engage in combat, so other vampires don’t grasp why followers of this Path 
like Fortitude. Supernatural endurance, however, lets a Necronomist 
engage in long-term experiments no mortal (or even weak vampire) could 
maintain, and since insight comes from the purity of extremes, 
Necronomists seek out Fortitude early in their studies. 
The First Impulse 
Some people always found death more interesting in life. Life consists 
only of what you see, after all; the great mysteries await beyond death. 
Seekers of insights into the ultimate mysteries often bring themselves to 
the attention of Sabbat observers. If they survive the early shocks of 
actually being part of the world beyond death, the new recruits may find 
in the Path of Death and the Soul what they always sought, unawares. In 
addition, some people attract such attention for sheer unemotional 
detachment from the world. Whether or not they had any interest in such 
matters before death, some of these recruits take to the Path and its 
support for calm study. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE PATH 
OE FVIL REVELATIONS 
The followers of the Path of Evil Revelations, who call themselves 
Corrupters and Slaves, teach that all vampires serve the greater powers 
of evil. Vampires are not their own masters, but agents of Hell itself. The 
vampire’s only choice is to acknowledge and serve his infernal creators 
- 
to resist is to face destruction. The Beast is the demon given to each 
vampire in the Embrace. In the end, when Hell triumphs and the 
infernal lords stride through every realm of existence, vampires who 
obeyed their inner demons will reap rewards. The others ... won’t. 
No Slave knows just how many demons exist, or whether, over time, 
new demons emerge in some mysterious process of creation. Demons 
don’t tell their servants such things. Each Slave learns his particular part 
in the grand schemes of Hell - 
the specific vices he should promote and, 
in some cases, the virtues he should concentrate on undermining. The 
demons set some vampires to traveling wherever the opportunity to 
corrupt in a particular way may arise while other vampires must stay in 
one area and corrupt it in a variety of ways. 
Keep in mind that Corrupters don’t make all this up. Spiritual 
beings of great power and great evil do exist in the World of Darkness. 
Infernalism does allow material beings to contact demons, and a variety 
of rules systematize the process of cutting deals with demons. Demons 
never tell the truth except when it makes a good weapon, so bystanders 
need not assume that the Beast actually is a demon or that Hell’s triumph 
is inevitable. Vampire skeptics face enough surprises already when 
infernal force presents itself to them. 
The Sabbat and Camarilla hate the Path of Evil Revelations with 
equal fervor. Neither sect likes the idea of vampires binding themselves 
to demons or the destruction such creatures bring. Corrupters regard the 
sects as foolish and weak, obstacles for Hell’s willing servants to over- 
come - by subversion and mastery if possible. The Path of Evil 
Revelations claims unique truth. Any moral code founded on rejection 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of vampires’ status as demonic servants is wrong, pure and simple. 
Adherents to other Paths find the Corrupters laughably pretentious, 
dangerously insane or both. 
Vampires on the Path of Evil Revelations practice Conviction and Instinct. 
THE FTHICS 
O P  
THE PATH 
You serve Hell. Demons reward their loyal servants and punish rebels 
and incompetents. 
Persuade other vampires of the truth. When they resist, corrupt them so 
that they unwittingly serve demonic agendas anyway, then explain the rest of 
the story. 
Fight fiercely against all vampires who harbor desires to be good or 
honorable. 
Never speak the truth except to gain something that dishonesty can’t 
get for you. Intrigue with other vampires and demons other than the one you 
serve; success justifies disobedience. 
The Beast is your master and ally. Exploit it always. 
EOLLOWIN~ 
THE PATH 
Infernalism in various forms is as old as the Curse of Caine. The 
current form of the Path reflects, like most Sabbat Paths, the influence of 
mortal thinking during the Inquisition and Renaissance. The idea of Hell 
as a political state in a grand war with Heaven developed only after the 
nation-state appeared as the basis of mortal politics. Likewise, the notion 
of an autonomous evil - 
neither in rebellion against the good nor in 
ultimately harmonious tension with it - shows the influence of an 
increasingly secular philosophy. The dwindling of popular belief in 
demons as personal entities pushed the Path into obscurity, and it 
remains an unpopular choice. 
The Sabbat does its best to keep the Path unpopular. Sabbat Inquisi- 
tors hunt infernalists as diligently as any breathing Inquisitor ever did. 
Unfortunately for anti-infernalist officers, the sect’s fundamental lack of 
concern over human mortal restraints makes Sabbat members easier 
targets than the Humanity-obsessed ranks of the Camarilla. Infernalism 
flourishes most successfully in nomadic packs since it’s easier to maintain 
secrecy over infernalist practices in the short term. 
The escalating terror of the Final Nights makes infernalism more 
popular. Corrupters find ready recruits everywhere they go now that no 
lesser form of support seems likely to survive. When even Antediluvians 
fall, what hope waits for young vampires except the comforts of Hell? 
The Inquisition works overtime without really making a dent in the new 
ranks of infernalists. 
Slaves practice a variety of rituals. Different demons want different 
sorts of offerings: Some care a lot about ceremony, and others don’t. The 
most important sacrifice is of the vampire’s self, his free will, place in the 
community and morality. Everything else is secondary. Human sacrifice 
helps bind the vampire to the demon, so demons encourage it. They also 
encourage other sacrifices and even demand the absence of sacrifices 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


when that might breed more fear of reprisals. Followers of the Path all 
engage in frenetic activity since Hell frowns on idleness and no demonic 
master ever guarantees unconditional support. 
Corrupters don’t create many childer: It’s just inviting competition 
for demonic favors. Instead, they work through their own servants and 
dupes to get things done. Some turn back to mortal society while others 
specialize in corrupting their fellow vampires. Mortal-oriented Corrupt- 
‘ers feed evils great and small. Every sin from petty theft to global 
terrorism can serve Hell’s agenda. As with the Corrupter himself, what 
matters most in mortal pawns is that their souls turn to Hell. The actions 
that follow just make the inner change visible. 
Hell receives all willing lackeys, so there’s no particularly “typi- 
cal” Slave. To do their work well, followers of the Path must be social 
creatures. A vampire who does not spread evil doesn’t matter to Hell, 
after all. Hell demands obedience, and followers of the Path often 
find themselves ordered to suddenly give up things they valued or 
enjoyed and replace them with new objects of desire. Anything that 
might distract the vampire from his master’s concerns must go. Long- 
time followers of the Path tend to become strange, disconnected, 
obsessed creatures. 
Corrupters who prepare themselves thoughtfully develop Occult, 
Subterfuge, Etiquette, Intimidation and Empathy. Those who actively fight 
their masters’ enemies also build up a range of combat Abilities. 
Auspex and Presence are the most popular Disciplines for followers 
of the Path. Many also study Dark Thaumaturgy, a particular form of 
Thaumaturgy known only to their masters. Dementation became popular 
recently as the Malkavian clan showed just how influential the Discipline 
could be when used intelligently. 
The First Impulse 
Every generation of mortals includes some people willing to sell their 
souls. The Sabbat generally doesn’t like such fools any more than the 
Camarilla does, but vampires already on the Path of Evil Revelations do 
recruit among like-minded humans. Most often, however, people who 
never really thought about serving demons in life respond to their first 
experiences as vampires with a chain of logic that leads straight to Hell. 
If they manage to avoid destruction at the hands of vampires who don’t 
approve of infernalism, these recruits gravitate toward packs focused on 
the Path. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE PATH 
OE THE EFRAL HEART 
The followers of the Path of the Feral Heart, or Beasts, define themselves in 
terms of the Beast. As the ultimate predators, vampires stand outside all human 
social constraints. Civilization supports the weak - 
vampires aren’t weak and 
don’t need the support. Vampires should hunt when hungry and rest when tired. 
The Beast is only one part of the vampire’s nature, but it’s the most important 
part. The Beast tells the vampire when to act and when to remain calm. There’s 
nothing wrong with either state, only with doing something at the wrong time. 
The Path doesn’t give any merit to stupidity. As sentient predators, 
vampires must use their intelligence as well as their instincts. Forethought 
sharpens the hunt, letting the vampire prey most efficiently. The Path rejects the 
trappings of civilization, including technology. The Curse gives vampires 
everything they need. Relying on the tools invented by prey makes the predator 
that much more dependent on prey, more like the prey, more prone to failure. 
Vampires hunt and kill and should do just fine without any trappings. 
Vampires on the Path of the Feral Heart practice Conviction and Instinct. 
Survive. You can’t do anything if you don’t exist. 
Strike a balance with your Beast. Temper brutality with cunning, reason 
Everything that exists is in some sense “natural.” Civilization isn’t bad 
Master your fears, including fire. You must be free to choose your course 
Your allegiances should be absolute. You owe total commitment to 
THE FTHICS 
OP THE PATH 
with instinct. 
because it’s unnatural. Civilization is bad because it weakens you. 
of action unfettered by terror. 
yourself and your packmates. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


EOLLOWINC~THE PATH 
The Path of the Feral Heart has existed without much change for thousands 
of years. Gangrel pioneers created it, and it spread to other clans as they found 
themselves facing defeat and exile. Nomadic Sabbat packs often practice it. 
Followers of the Path feel no urge to create a formal organization: They 
share insights and questions when they happen to encounter fellow adherents. 
A minority of Beasts serve the Sabbat as assassins and do very well indeed. The 
Path teaches vampires to kill carefully, in response to need, not caprice. 
Beasts don’t bother with fashion. If they wear clothes at all, they aim for 
functionality. Sturdy protective garb does the job. Nor do they bother with 
camouflage - 
Beast Gangrel let their animal features show. Beasts do pay 
constant attention to their environment. Bystanders notice them glancing 
around, smelling everything and listening for faint sounds. The Path pretty 
well precludes involvement in politics; Beasts hold no high offices in the 
Sabbat although some make good pack priests. 
Country Gangrel outnumber all other followers of the Path. Some City 
Gangrel who style themselves urban predators follow the Path, along with 
small numbers of Ravnos antitriibu, Nosferatu antitriibu and a few in each of the 
other clans. The Lasombra and Tzimisce almost never commit to it, since they 
take civilization very seriously. 
Physical or Mental Attributes come first for Beasts. Every Beast learns 
Survival, Brawl, Dodge and Alertness. Many also study Animal Ken, and some 
become formidable at Empathy thanks to their ability to pick up clues about 
mental states others try to hide. Intimidation often follows naturally from the 
Path‘s emphasis on cooperation with the Beast. 
Followers of this Path find Fortituck and Protean indispensable. Animalism 
is useful to learn from lesser predators and for feeding. Many Beasts develop 
Auspex, Obfuscate and Celerity as well, since all three enhance a vampire’s 
ability to hunt. 
The First Impulse 
Some people turn their backs on civilization in search of an imagined 
better existence in the wild. They may gather in small communes or may live 
altogether solitary lives, trying to purge themselves of the taints created by 
technology and population. Vampires on the Path of the Feral Heart love to 
recruit these sorts of people, offering them the opportunity to exist with far 
fewer shackles than any mortal can hope for. In addition, some people who 
moved happily through life turn to the wilderness after death to separate 
themselves from their lost existence. The Path of the Feral Heart helps them 
maintain internal discipline as they cut ties to sources of external discipline. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE PATH 
OE HONORABLE 
ACCORD 
The followers of the Path of Honorable Accord call themselves Knights 
and focus on the society of vampires as a whole. The Curse makes vampires 
predators with a strong individualistic bias. Unrestrained, they’d destroy each 
other down to the very last Leech. Knights teach that honor - 
the rigorous 
enforcement of standards of nobility in conduct - 
holds the society of 
vampires together. Honor strengthens a vampire’s ability to resist the Beast 
and provides the rules that allow vampires to coexist without having to fall 
back on the human morality they’ve abandoned. 
The Path allows no room for mercy or sentiment. Honor is a matter of 
calculated rational choice. Knights carefully analyze the meaning of the 
commitments they make and the circumstances they face. Either they must act 
a particular way to keep their commitments, or not. If not, they enjoy complete 
freedom to decide how to act on any basis that suits them - 
raw self-interest 
usually dominates. Knights gradually lose track of notions like “friendship.” 
They have allies andregular associates; trust plays no part in the Path. Nor does 
the Path require making any particular commitments, with a few specific 
exceptions. What matters is how Knights keep their word, not which particu- 
lar promises they give. 
Knights make prominent and reliable Sabbat leaders. As long as their 
superiors administer oaths of office carefully, Knights serve with less treachery 
or complicated side issues than almost anyone else in the sect. If their oaths 
require them to fight, Knights fight courageously because cowardice would 
betray the spirit of their commitment. If they swear to teach, Knights teach 
thoroughly and make sure their students learn. The problem comes when 
superiors offer oaths that don’t require the Knights to restrain personal 
ambitions. Knights make great traitors, and rationalize their treachery as 
providing negative examples of just how important careful definition is when 
honor ties the society together. 
Vampires on the Path of Honorable Accord practice Conscience and Self- 
Control. Keep in mind that this Path‘s version of Conscience does not include 
remorse, only concern for one’s integrity. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
I 
I 
THE 
FTHICS 
OE THE PATH 
Honor every commitment you make. Your word defines who you are to 
Never fear, or at least never show it. Duty takes precedence over your 
Show respect to your superiors, loyalty to your equals and appropriate 
Repay your debts in full. 
Support your comrades-at-arms in all endeavors except treachery. 
The Path of Honorable Accord emerged from the medieval world, 
inspired by the same ideas that underlay the older Path of Chivalry without 
accepting human morality in any matter but honor itself. The decline of 
chivalry in mortal society also led to Honorable Accord losing ground to the 
Paths of the Renaissance era. The Sabbat civil wars brought Honorable 
Accord back to general attention. Knights committed themselves to the Code 
of Milan, becoming its first defenders. Many Knights identify themselves by an 
oath as “followers of the Code.” 
The Knights remained prominent throughout the sect schisms of the 19th 
and 20th centuries. They generally remained aloof from factional wars, 
defining their duty to the sect as a whole. In particularly contested regions, 
Knight often brokered cease-fires between rival factions. As pack leaders, they 
allow more experimentation than followers of other Paths: Any action that 
doesn’t jeopardize the commitments of pack members to each other and the 
sect is fine with adherents of the Path of Honorable Accord. 
Knights take a very visible part in ritae and ceremonies. Public reaffirma- 
tion of one’s oaths allows the Knights to shine as the really trustworthy, serious 
members of the group.. . and also provide good opportunities for humiliating 
or punishing the unreliable fools around them. Other Sabbat members find 
Knights useful but scary and sometimes downright ridiculous. Only vampires 
with a suicidal urge actually laugh ut Knights, though. For their part, Knights 
see everyone else as tools or obstacles. That includes mortal society as well as 
Cainite; where mortals may advance a Knight’s oaths, she won’t hesitate to use 
them, destroying them once the job is done. 
Ventrue antitribu and Salubi antitribu dominate this Path. Nosferatu 
untitrin‘bu, Tzimisce uninterested in radical personal transformation and lucid 
Malkavian untitribu also find the Path a good match for their concerns. More 
and more Panders adopt the Path as they find it a good route to respect from 
the vampires around them. A handful of Camarilla elders - 
those who can 
keep their private lives well away from unsympathetic inquirers - 
practice the 
Path, making no effort to teach it, simply holding onto what they remember 
as their mortal ideals from 800 years ago. 
The Path of Honorable Accord requires calm contemplation. A Knight 
must never act rashly. She should first consider her obligations and then 
evaluate the consequences of the options available to her. Hasty Knights 
everyone else. 
personal worries. 
consideration to your lessers. 
EOLLOWIN~ 
THE PATH 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


perish. Deliberate Knights also perish, but only when fightingon behalfoftheir 
commitments and when no lesser sacrifice can do justice to the duty. 
Most Knights learn a wide range of combat Abilities along withkadership 
and Expression. Investigation, Luw and other research-related Abilities help 
Knights commit and act wisely. Knights who take office acquire relevant Lores. 
More Knights learn Fortitude and Presence than any other Disciplines: 
Fortitude for surviving the rigors ofduty, Presence for commanding proper respect. 
Potence helps indischargingmartial duties. Salubriantitriibuon the Path favor the 
martial side of Valeran and sometimes teach it to their fellow Knights. 
The First Impulse 
Some people want to be part of the winning team. They emerge from 
mortality with the knowledge that the Sabbat is the biggest winning team 
there ever was: No corporate acumen or political clout can begin to compete 
with the power of the blood. Having joined the winning team, they want to 
help it win. The Path of Honorable Accord gives structure to their desire. 
Some of these natural adherents were real winners in life, but some lost again 
and again and take their undead existence as a chance to forget all that and get 
it right this time. 
THE PATH 
OE LILITH 
The followers of the Path of Lilith, who sometimes call themselves 
Bahari or Lilins, begin with a heretical view of Cainite history. According 
to the Lilins, the textual fragments that compose the Book of Lilith reveal 
the true story of vampires’ origins. The tale begins not with Caine but with 
Lilith, Adam’s first wife, whom he rejected because she claimed to be his 
equal. Exiled, she wandered the unfinished wilderness of the world. Out 
of her sufferings, greater than any we can imagine now, came a unique 
enlightenment. She built a garden of her own and taught herself to master 
those gifts that God had hoarded for Himself. When Caine received God’s 
curse, Lilith stood ready to take him, comfort him and train him. Caine 
has never acknowledged the extent of his debt; most of his childer show 
the same lack of gratitude. Nonetheless, Lilith’s heirs persist in seeking 
true wisdom for themselves and for the whole world. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Lilins regard everyone, mortal and Cainite alike, as children 
trapped in an immature understanding of the universe. Everyone ad- 
vances to a comfortable point and stops there, afraid of the challenges that 
lie ahead. Lilith taught Caine the way a parent must teach a rebellious 
child, the way her heirs teach themselves and others: Through pain. Only 
discipline forces the child to pay attention and persevere, resisting the 
temptations to turn aside. Adults deceive themselves into believing 
they’ve learned the important lessons. They’re wrong. Compared to the 
vast scope of potential enlightenment, almost no one ever takes more 
than one step along the hard road. The Path of Lilith pushes its adherents 
to go further. 
Pain marks every step. The Lilins seek to challenge their own limits. 
Fire walking, freezing themselves, impaling themselves on thorns and 
blades, starving themselves, feeding on poisoned blood, amputation - 
everything that shocks the body and mind might open a door of percep- 
tion. Flesh imprisons the soul even after life stops, and Cainite have to 
work at least as hard as mortals to escape its limits. Outsiders see the Lilins 
as a bunch of masochists and sadists, but no outsider really understands the 
point. Pain isn’t the end; it’s a means of forcing fresh thought. If other 
means served, the Lilins would use them. In fact, the Lilins do pursue 
esoteric study, meditation and the like, resorting to pain at the point the 
other means fail. 
While the Lilins don’t pursue pain gratuitously, the Path allows no 
room for compassion in any ordinary sense. Enlightenment must come, 
whatever the cost. Let those who wish to remain ignorant remove 
themselves from the Lilins. Above all, Lilins drive themselves and each 
other, but they won’t let others remain ignorant. Everyone needs to 
awaken to their full potential. The Final Nights give the Lilins an extra 
sense of urgency since they see absolutely no hope except the attainment 
of the heights Lilith reached long ago. If the Antediluvians rise and face 
only an ignorant horde, the world will not last. Pain must save the world. 
Some individuals find themselves suddenly hearing a quiet song 
beneath all other sounds. The Hierophants - 
the priests and priestesses 
of the Path - 
call this the ahi hay Lilitu and diligently seek out its 
hearers. The song marks one’s readiness to join the ranks.. . regardless of 
how the listener feels about it now. 
Vampires on the Path of Lilith practice Conviction and Instinct. 
Accept every pain. There is no enlightenment without it. 
Freely give pain to seekers; freely receive pain from seekers. You do not 
Practice what you learn. The world depends on practice, not theory. 
Plant a garden that shows the power of your mastery over creation. 
Seek out those who, unknown to themselves, are now ready to join you. 
THE 
FTHICS 
OP THE PATH 
follow this Path alone. 
Gather with your brothers and sisters to share your progress. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


EOLLOWIN~ 
THE PATH 
The Path of Lilith is older than recorded Cainite history. Conflicting 
legends attribute its formalization to various Methuselahs; most stories agree 
that the key manuscripts came to light in Africa, but no details can be 
confirmed now. The ranks of Lilins have always been small - 
they rise in times 
of great crisis, then shrink again as the uncommitted fall away. (A few very 
clever outside observers look for rising numbers of Lilins as a clue that trouble 
brews somewhere.) The Path prescribes no specificrituals, so every community 
of Lilins develops complex ceremonies of their own. 
The Camarilla ruthlessly persecutes the Lilins; their very presence raises 
unwanted questions about just how dead and buried the past is. The Sabbat 
doesn’t support the Path’s teachings but allows Lilins to remain as long as 
they serve the sect. This policy of tolerance may change as the Path grows 
more popular. 
Lilins trade the knowledge they’ve won. They maintain loose networks of 
occult-minded individuals - 
not just vampires, but mortals, magicians and 
even ghosts sometimes prove useful. The Sabbat does frown on these ex- 
changes, and Lilins who share too much risk harsh punishment. The Lilins 
often develop their own versions of rim, with much more pain involved. It’s 
impossible to catalog fully the range of Bahari practices because they never 
fully discard anything that once proved useful. Enlightenment could strike 
twice in the same way, after all. 
Lilins alternate periods of frenzied activity, when they search endlessly 
for the next change and the next learning experience, with periods of quiet 
withdrawal, when they turn inward and try to collate what they’ve learned 
so far. The Path finds some adherents in every social class and group, and 
offers no barrier based on wealth (or its absence), gender or any other 
external marker. By the time they’re done, Lilins generally retain few if any 
clues as to their original condition. Sustained torture bums away the features 
a vampire began with while deep insights change the vampire’s demeanor. 
Many Lilins, though not all, favor elaborate vestments and props for their 
rituals, and this attention to ceremonial detail is one of the few traits the 
Lilins have in common. 
No clan dominates the Path of Lilith, within the Sabbat or outside it. 
Sabbat followers include Tzimisce and Lasombra and unticn’bu from the 
Malkavian, Nosferatu and Toreador clans. A few Kiasyd practice it, as do 
Harbingers of Skulls who refer to their unseen high priestess Lamia. As noted 
above, some version of the Path also finds mortal and ghostly practitioners. 
More women follow it than men, and women seem to fare better on it, but the 
Path does not exclude men. Individuals make their own way toward the goal 
of completeness, and followers encourage each other even when their specific 
steps diverge greatly. The Path promotes areal, if peculiar, sense of community 
among people who share only the drive to break through all restraints that keep 
them finite and static. 
Torture and Occult form the foundation of the Bahari standard set of 
Abilities. Many things can supplement them; Lores, academic and scientific 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Abilities, Investigation and Medicine are all popular. Linguistics comes in handy 
when Lilins try to trace the work of their predecessors. 
The Path‘s core teachings state that Lilith developed Disciplines within 
herself in response to the pain of evil. Her disciples emulate her with special 
attention to Animalism, Cekrity, Fortitude and Obfuscate. Vicissitude provides 
pain without external tools, and packs of Lilins try to include someone who 
knows it. The handful of Ravnos who follow the Path enjoy tremendous 
popularity as Horrid Reality makes a wonderful teaching tool. 
The First Impulse 
The truth hurts, some people believe. Becoming undead hurt a lot; even 
a physically painless Embrace does involve dying and the trauma that goes with 
it, and the Sabbat seldom Embraces with regard for the personal comfort of 
recruits. Having begun their new existence in pain, they continue to seek 
further truths in pain. Some of these recruits were masochists or sadists in life, 
others dealt with pain no more intimately than the picking of a scab. The Path 
of Lilith draws more followers from those who never cared about pain in life 
than from those who already have experience trying to open their spiritual eyes 
through material suffering. 
THF 
PATH OE P O W F R A N D  THF INNFRVOICF 
The followers of the Path of Power and the Inner Voice, called Unifiers, 
take the rejection of their lost humanity to its extreme. They discard all desire 
for community, all interest in philosophical and theological matters, all 
intellectual and abstract pursuits in favor of one single goal: Power. Vampires, 
they say, exist to rule, and they shall set the example. Some night they’ll rule 
the world. In the meantime, they rule as much as they can. 
Unifiers focus on the tangible world around them. If they ever had a soul, 
it’s gone along with their breath. Human beings and their petty desires don’t 
matter since they all die. Purely personal satisfactions don’t matter, either. 
What counts is the society of vampires, and the role Unifiers play in it. The 
ability to give orders and watch others obey them matters. Unifiers aim to 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


command everything around them- political, economic, social and spiritual 
authority should all be theirs. 
The Path of Power and the Inner Voice requires Unifiers to understand 
everyone. Would-be rulers must know why people obey, what drives them to 
rebel and how different forms of power work. Every aspect of human and 
vampiric nature comes into play, from the foundations of biology and occult 
history to psychology. Unifiers study both the surface mind and the subcon- 
scious, as well as the body they exist in. Particularly diligent followers of the 
Path zealously pursue competing theories of vampiric origins and develop- 
ment in hopes of creating the Cainite counterpart to human medical lore. 
Stupid power-seekers try to apply bigger sticks when obvious brute-force 
solutions fail. Usurpers know that command sometimes works secretly, and 
that very complex forces interact with each other each time subjects obey or 
reject an order. 
Unifiers enjoy a great deal of respect, and even more fear, from other 
Sabbat members. Every successful follower of this Path shows herself both 
willing and able to use every means at her disposal to increase her power. As 
followers, Unifiers seek constantly to displace their superiors. As leaders, 
Unifiers tolerate no failure or dissent. Wherever a significant number of 
Unifiers gather, most of them soon end up either fleeing or dead. The abolition 
of mercy and compassion applies to one’s fellow followers of the Path just as 
much as to anyone else. 
Novices on the Path tend to practice overt forms of rulership, with fear 
and punishment as their tools. More sophisticated Unifiers realize that the 
best control is that which rules out the possibility of rebellion. Willing 
servants do things slaves and prisoners don’t. An effective Unifier corrupts 
his followers until they can conceive of no existence without him. Offer 
them the satisfaction of all their desires and develop desires that only you can 
satisfy, and they’re yours. 
Vampires on the Path of Power and the Inner Voice practice Conviction 
and Instinct. 
THE 
BTHICS 
OP THE PATH 
Success justifies everything. Pursue mastery at all costs. 
Be sparing in rewards. Don’t let subordinates count too strongly on your 
Show respect to leaders who deserve it; replace those who don’t. 
Never show weakness for fear. Appear stronger than you are and grow 
Use every tool at your disposal. 
favor. 
into your image. 
EOLLOWIN~ 
THE PATH 
Nobody knows for sure just how this Path developed. The most common 
story attributes it to Lord Marcus of the Lasombra in the early 16th century. It 
certainly originated or took its current form in the Renaissance, but may have 
roots running back further. Unifiers gave prominent early support to the 
Sabbat; those who survive continue to lead it in the Final Nights. Unifiers 
choose their childer more carefully than many Sabbat members and are 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


responsible for many mysterious disappearances of tyrants, politicians, prison 
camp directors and the like. In recent years the Path has gained many more 
adherents. The prospect of ever-escalating warfare inspires low-ranking Sabbat 
members to try to move up in the ranks so that they can give orders rather than 
take them. 
Unifiers practice no Path-specific rituals and don’t like to spend time 
around each other except when necessary. They do enthusiastically take part 
in war parties and hunts. Every opportunity to show mastery, like the Fire 
Dance, gives Unifiers the chance to humiliate others in public. A humble 
follower of this Path would be a contradiction in terms. Whatever the social 
background of a particular Unifier, confidence to the point of megalomania 
now drives her actions. 
Some Unifiers develop extensive combat mastery; others don’t. All 
Unifiers build Abilities such as Leadership, Intimidation, Politics and Subterfuge. 
Empathy and Meditation assist careful planners. 
Dominate and Presence are the favorite Disciplines for followers of this 
Path. Everything else has its uses, and the Unifiers don’t spurn any Disciplines 
as irrelevant. 
The First Impulse 
Some people want to rule the world and want to rule it without having to 
share it with others. Becoming a vampire shows them how much they didn’t 
know about the real nature of power in the world. That’s a learning experience. 
Now that they know about the night’s society, they want to master it. If they 
manage to avoid destruction for excessive insubordination, recruits of this sort 
take readily to the Path of Power and the Inner Voice -at least, they do if they 
can refrain from arguing too much with their teachers. As with the Path of 
Honorable Accord, some adherents were winners and rulers in life, others just 
the opposite. The impulse to rule doesn’t always go with prior success in 
exercising it. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Between the Lasombra and Tzimisce, the various antitribu and a handful 
of minor bloodlines, the vampires of the Sabbatpractice most of the commonly 
known Disciplines (Animalism, Auspex, Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude, Obfus- 
cate, Potence and Presence). Specific lines also know certain proprietary 
Disciplines that appear in Laws of the Night (Chimermy, Dementation, 
Obtenebration, Protean, Quietus, Serpentis and Vicissitude). However, this is 
hardly the full extent of the powers that various Sabbat members boast. Several 
Sabbat bloodlines claim their own secret permutations of Caine’s curse, and 
elder Lasombra, Tzimisce and Malkavian antitribu wield aspects of their 
respective Disciplines that are unmatched by those of any Camarilla vampire. 
The late, unlamented Tremere antitribu did add a handful of Thaumaturgy 
paths and rituals to the sect’s arsenal, and these are still in the hands and 
grimoires of other blood magicians. The sect’s few necromancers boast their 
own rites, and the mysterious Harbingers of Skulls have demonstrated their 
own mastery of the boundaries of life and death through the art known as the 
Mortuus Path. 
Though many outside the Sabbat regard the sect’s unique powers as the 
foulest arts of the undead, the Sabbat itself is all too aware of abilities that are 
even more blasphemous. Since its inception, traitorous infernalists have 
plagued the sect, vampires who would give over their very souls to demons for 
the promise of temporal power. Many times, this power comes in the form of 
lessons in blood magic, and the Sabbat knows these arts as Dark Thaumaturgy. 
DARK 
THAUMATURC~Y 
Though the Sabbat endorses many paths to power, dealing with demons is 
one that the sect has never approved of. Servitude to an infernal master, to the 
Sabbat’s way of thinking, is no better than servitude to the Antediluvians -in 
some ways worse, as it places the Cainite under an influence that Caine himself 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


never accepted. Nevertheless, individual Sabbat vampires do seek out the quick 
road to personal power that demons provide. One of the most common forms of 
power that demons grant to vampires is a unique form of blood magic, and such 
paths and rituals are collectively known as Dark Thaumaturgy. Most Cainites 
refer to practitioners of this Discipline as infemalists. 
Were a scholar of blood magic to compare the fundamental practices of 
Thaumaturgy to Dark Thaumaturgy, she would find few differences. Both are 
forms of magic that rely on the strength of Caine’s Curse and the individual 
practitioner’s vitae to power their effects. The primary differences lie in the 
philosophy behind the two Disciplines and the source of the requisite knowl- 
edge. Much like a history lesson from a devout neo-Nazi is inescapably colored 
by his perceptions, a blood magic lesson from a demon bears the biases of the 
infernal perspective on magical workings. With time, this taint affects the 
vampire’s perceptions, his worldview, his physical form and even his very soul 
(which, by this point, he merely holds in trust for his demonic master). 
The Sabbat loathes infernalists because their ultimate loyalty is not to the 
sect. Rather, it is to the demon with whom they made their pact for power. 
Though an infernalist’s night-to-night actions may be in accordance with the 
Sabbat’s goals, his master may call upon him at any moment to act on the 
demon’s own agenda, regardless of how it conflicts with the actions and views 
of those around him. To an organization whose very existence is based on the 
principle of mutual loyalty, such betrayal is anathema. The recently expanded 
Sabbat Inquisition exists for the sole purpose ofrooting out and destroying such 
traitors, and it is very, very good at this job. 
Learning individual paths and rituals of Dark Thaumaturgy follows the same 
limitations as for Thumaturgy, including the declaration of a primary path. 
However, the learning process is marginally easier, thanks to demonic tutelage. All 
Dark Thuumamrgy paths cost two Experience Traits for Basic powers, five for 
Intermediate ones, and eight for Advanced ones. All Basic rituals cost two 
Experience Traits, Intermediate rituals cost three and Advanced Rituals cost five. 
Note that Thaumaturgy and Dark Thaumaturgy are incompatible for the purposes 
of sharing rituals and primary path levels - 
a character with an Advanced rating 
in his primary Dark Thauwrgy path but only an Intermediate one in his primary 
path of Thaumaturgy cannot learn Advanced Thuwrgy rituals. 
Players may not take this as one of their Disciplines at character creation. 
Even if you have every intention of coming into the chronicle as an infernalist 
(and where is your Storyteller if you are?), you must still make the bargain to 
start acquiring Dark Thaumaturgy. Furthermore, you may not learn simply by 
spending a couple of Experience Traits and calling it a fait accompli - 
your 
character must petition his dark master each and every time he wishes to 
advance on his path or learn aritual. Doing so otherwise is to trivialize the dark 
pact and the fact that an infernalist is at the beck and call of a demon. 
DARK 
THAUMATUR~ICAL 
PATHS 
Mechanically, Dark Thaumaturgy functions in the same manner as does 
Thaumaturgy (Laws of the Night, p. 176). To use one of the powers of an 
individual path, spend a Blood Trait and make any additional challenges or 
expenditures that the individual path calls for. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE 
PIRFS OE THE INPFRNO 
With this path, you learn mastery over the very fires of Hell (or so you’re 
told). Unlike a practitioner of The Lure ofFlames, who spontaneously generates 
fire, you summon this sickly green flame by opening a tiny one-way portal to 
Hell. This path is extremely unsubtle and impossible to hide, but its eldritch 
flames are as impressive in effect as they are fearsome in appearance. 
Fire from this path is supernatural in origin, and protection from mundane 
flames does not help its victims. Unless a power specifically protects against 
Supernatural aggravated damage (such as Fortitude), it provides no special 
benefits when resisting Fires ofthe Inferno. Body armor does not absorb damage 
from this path, which instead goes straight to the target. These flames may, 
however, be extinguished in the same manner as any other fire (with holy 
water having more than normal effect, at Storyteller discretion). Fires of the 
Inferno uses the Occult Ability for retests. All powers of this path have a 
maximum range of the character’s line of sight. 
BASIC SIRES 
OE THE INPERNO 
Flash Blind 
You may cause a brief flash of intensely bright flame to appear in front of 
a target’s eyes. Though this power functions more as a distraction than an 
attack, it briefly disorients its victim, during which time you may launch an 
additional attack or take advantage of the confusion to escape. 
To Flash Blind a target, make a Mental Challenge against her. If you win, 
she is dazzled and disoriented by the eruption offire and automatically loses all 
ties until the end of the next turn. If she was using Heightened Senses to enhance 
her vision, the sensory overload blinds her for one hour (see the Flaw Blind, p. 
116 of Laws of the Night). 
Flame Lance 
This power allows you to shoot a pencil-thin stream of intense fire. This 
appears as a perfectly straight line of bright green flame reaching from you to 
your target. Many practitioners of Flame Lance invoke this power by pointing 
at their intended target and twisting their wrists, defining the portal through 
which the flame erupts with the circle that their fingertip describes in the air. 
To strike someone with Flame Lance, make a Mental Challenge that the 
target resists with her Physical Traits, If you win, she suffers one level of 
aggravated damage. You may use Flame Lance to ignite flammable inanimate 
targets, though it will not set flame to anything that your target is wearing. 
INTERMEDIATE 
EIRES OE THE INEERNO 
Ring of Fire 
When you use this power, a foot-thick circle of flame erupts in a 10’ radius 
around you. Smoldering lines appear on the ground inside this circle, inscrib- 
ing a pentagram with you at its center. This fire reaches your own height, 
forming a wall of dancing flame through which any potential assailant must 
leap in order to reach you. The fire stays in place regardless of where you move, 
though you have no special immunity to it if you attempt to pass through it. 
Spend a Willpower Trait to ignite a Ring of Fire. The circle erupts instantly, 
and anyone who is standing on its perimeter must win a Static Physical 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Challenge against five Traits or suffer one level of aggravated damage. Befort 
making this challenge, he has the option to declare whether he will move to tht 
outside or inside of the ring after the test is resolved (we assume that no one wil 
want to remain standing directly on the ring’s perimeter, though particularll 
brave or stupid individuals may do so by expending a Willpower Trait). The Rini 
of Fire remains in place for the rest of the scene or until you are knockec 
unconscious, move out of line of sight of it or decide to release it. 
Anyone who attempts to pass through the Ring of Fire must win a Couragt 
Virtue Test against three Traits in order to summon the will to do so and take: 
one level of aggravated damage if he does step through it. You are not immunc 
to damage from the fire, though you suffer no fear of it and may pass througl 
it without the Courage Virtue Test. 
Incinerate 
You may inflict the very wrath of Hell upon an enemy. With a gesture an( 
aglance, you create a three-foot wide circle under a target from which acolum1 
of flame erupts to consume her. This fire reaches the ceiling if you are indoors 
and reaches 30 feet into the air outdoors. 
To Incinerate your target, issue a Mental Challenge that she resists with he 
Physical Traits. If you win, she is unable to dodge before the ground under he 
erupts in fire. The initial blast does two levels of aggravated damage to her an( 
anyone in contact with her. Your primary target is also on fire and takes onc 
additional aggravated health level every turn until she extinguishes the blazi 
or perishes. A victim of this attack may use Dodge for a retest. 
ADVANCED 
EIRES OE THE INEERNO 
Furnaces of Hell 
Your mastery of hellfire has surpassed mere point-targeting. With thi 
power, you may engulf multiple opponents in simultaneous eruptions of fire 
This power’s effects resemble those of Incinerate, but the fires summoned wit1 
F u m e s  of Hell are much more intense. 
To throw open the doors of the F u m e s  of Hell, spend a Willpower Trai 
and make a mass challenge against all your intended targets (you may affect a 
many targets as you have permanent Willpower), testing your Mental Trait 
against their Physical Traits. Anyone you beat in this challenge is subject ti 
the effects of Incinerate, but the initial injury to each primary target is thre 
levels of aggravated damage. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE PATH 
OP PHOBOS 
This path is subtle in most of its manifestations, and its effects are usually 
difficult to recognize as blood magic in action. This is because the Path ofphobos, 
rather than creating horrifying images or inducing artificial emotions, releases 
and magnifies fears that were already lurking within its victims’ minds. While 
this path is not an overtly powerful one, many cunning infernalists prefer it as 
they can use its effects as a source of social and psychological leverage. It is all the 
more powerful because its illusions exist entirely within the victim’s mind, and 
thus Auspex cannot penetrate them as it can the specters of Chimstry. The Path 
of Phobos uses the Intimidation Ability for retests. All powers of this path require 
you to be within line of sight of your victim to apply them though some effects 
may persist after activation regardless of where your victim is. 
The Paeh of Phobos is not without its drawbacks. Continued use of it often 
results in the infernalist sharing her victims’ unearthed fears. You may use Path 
of Phobos twice per night without any danger. However, on the third and every 
subsequent use of a power from this Path, you must succeed in a Static Mental 
Challenge against a number of Traits equal to the number of times that night you 
have used the path. If you fail, you are afflicted with the Flaw Nightmares (Laws 
of the Night, p. 117) for the next week and you lose an additional Blood Trait 
for every night that this lasts. If you fail three such tests in the same night, you 
permanently gain the Flaw Phobia (Laws of the Night, p. 117). The Storyteller 
determines the object of this phobia; it should be related to the fears of one or 
more of the victims on whom you have used Path of Phobos during that night. 
BASIC PATH 
OE PHOBOS 
Induce Fear 
You can induce a mild paranoia in your victim. She feels as if she is being 
watched constantly. Menacing figures hover at the edges of her vision, never 
coming fully into view. 
Make a Static Mental Challenge against your subject’s permanent Mental 
Traits to Induce Fear in your victim. If you succeed, she is affected for the 
remainder of the scene. While under the effects of Induce Fear, she must make 
a Courage Virtue Test against two Traits to take any action that exposes her 
to her unseen stalkers. She is also down one Trait on all tests she makes in 
combat due to the distraction imposed by “having to watch her back.” 
Spook 
The implicit terrors of Induce Fear become explicit with Spook. Your victim 
experiences minor hallucinations that portray an imminent attack that he will 
be powerless to resist. A police officer might see the flash of a gun barrel from the 
window of a burned-out apartment building while a Gangrel elder might hear the 
heavy footfalls of Lupines in war-form just around the comer. Whatever form 
these sensations take, they add up to the overburdening impression that your 
victim must flee at once lest he fall prey to whatever menaces him. 
Issue a Mental Challenge. If you win, your target must leave the area 
immediately. Additionally, a Cainite victim of this power must win a Courage 
Virtue Test against three Traits or enter Rotschreck. The compulsion to avoid 
the area lasts for one hour; the frenzy subsides in five minutes. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


INTERMEDIATE 
PATH 
OE PHOBOS 
Terrorize 
You can now summon illusions of your victim’s worst fears that, to her, are 
indistinguishable from reality. No one else can perceive them, but they are 
immediate threats to her, and so omnipresent that they all but paralyze her. If 
she is afraid of heights, the floor seems to fall away from her; if she fears snakes, 
a hundred cobras slither into the room and surround her. You are not 
automatically aware of what fear you have unearthed with this power though 
you may be able to infer it from your victim’s reactions by winning a Social 
Challenge (retest with Empathy or Subterfuge). 
To Terrorize your victim, bid a number of Mental Traits equal to her 
number of Courage Traits and defeat her in a Mental Challenge. If she loses, 
she must either succeed in a Courage Virtue Test against a four-Trait difficulty 
or spend a Mental Trait to take any action except cowering in fear. Teworize 
lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Fear-Plague 
Through this power, you may draw your subject’s deepest fears out of his mind, 
examine them and hurl them back at him. They then haunt him at every turn, 
stalking his mind and denying him any sort of peace. A criminal might constantly 
hear police cars pulling up; a Pander who believes in occult conspiracy theories may 
see mysterious sigils scrawled on walls wherever he goes. These omens and experi- 
ences are so all-pervading as to seriously affect the victim’s mental equilibrium. 
To inflict Fear-Plague on a target, spend a Willpower Trait and defeat him 
in a Mental Challenge. If you win, he cannot spend Willpower Traits for any 
purpose that does not directly complement his Nature or directly affect him 
immediate chances for survival as he perceives them. These effects last for one 
week. Your victim must be within your line of sight when you activate this 
power though its effects persist regardless of where he is. 
ADVANCED 
PATH 
OE PHOBOS 
Leech of Fear 
The diets of demons are many and varied. Some feed on blood like 
Cainites while others subsist on such diverse substances as the breath of infants 
or the remains of dead murderers. With this power, you may feed on other 
individuals’ fears, drawing sustenance as if they were mortal vitae. 
You may use this power on any given individual once per night. She must 
be within your line of sight, and she must be currently afraid of or intimidated 
by something or someone (though this power will not work if the fear is an 
artificial product of another PathofPhobos power). Spend the usual Blood Trait 
to activate Leech ofFear and make a number of Simple Tests equal to six minus 
your target’s number of Courage Traits. Each such test that you win or tie is one 
Fear Trait that you may add to your Blood Pool. Fear Traits function exactly 
like Blood Traits, except that all unspent Fear Traits disappear at sunrise. 
THE TAKINC~ 
OF THE SPIRIT 
Through this paths will-draining magics, you can strip mental stability, 
self-determination and even the very sense of self fromyour chosen victim. The 
Taking of the Spirit allows you, with time and practice, to reduce even the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


strongest-willed individual to a mindless automaton who only exists to serve 
your will. You must be within line of sight of your target for all of the following 
powers to work. The Taking of the Spirit uses the Subterfuge Ability for retests. 
BASIC  TAKIN^ OE THE SPIRIT 
Mind Leech 
The most basic power of this Path allows you to temporarily drain a small 
portion of a target’s mental stamina. Your victim has no idea what causes the 
sudden listlessness she experiences; she only knows that she feels listless, 
drained, distracted and discouraged. 
Make astatic Mental Challenge against adifficulty of the victim’s Mental 
Traits. If you win, your subject must bid an additional Trait on all Mental 
Challenges for the rest of the scene. You may only successfully use Mind Leech 
on an individual once per scene, though multiple infemalists may all apply it 
to the same target. 
Stigmatize 
You may now probe deeper into your victim’s psyche, impairing her ability 
to relate to other individuals. As with Mind Leech, your subject does not know 
the cause of her mysterious loss of social aptitude - 
she simply feels detached, 
antisocial and unable to relate to other people. 
Make a Static Mental Challenge against adifficulty of the victim’s Mental 
Traits. If you win, your subject must bid an additional Social Trait on all Social 
Challenges for the rest of the scene. You may only successfully use Stigmatize 
on an individual once per scene, though multiple infernalists may all apply it 
to the same target. 
INTERMEDIATE 
 TAKIN^ OE THE SPIRIT 
Drain Resolve 
Your ability to siphon away your victim’s will has progressed to such an 
extent that you may impair her ability to regain self-determination. This 
power’s psychological effects resemble those of deep depression. As in the case 
of the previous powers, Drain Resolve has no obvious source. 
Within five minutes of a successful use of Mind Leech, issue a Mental 
Challenge against the same target. If you win, your victim must spend three 
Willpower Traits, not one, to refresh her Mental Traits. The target should 
roleplay the psychological effects, which last until the next sunrise. 
Sap Will 
With Sap WiU, you may strike at the very heart of your victim’s psyche, stripping 
away her very strength of self. This is not without its dangers as a particularly strong 
mind can turn your attack back upon you. Unlike the lesser powers of Taking of the 
Spirit, Sap Will is obvious to its victim as some sort of mystic attack. 
Issue a Mental Challenge, bidding three Mental Traits. If you win, your 
victim loses a Willpower Trait. You may use Sup Will to drain no more than 
three Willpower Traits per night from any given target. 
ADVANCED 
 TAKIN^ OE THE SPIRIT 
The Gift of Servitude 
Though this path‘s lesser magics have the potential to temporarily weaken 
a victim, Gift of Servitude is the goal to which all students of Taking of the Spirit 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


eventually aspire. Through this feat of magical manipulation, you can bind 
your victim’s will to your own, leaving him little more than an empty shell who 
follows your commands with perfect obedience. 
Gift of Servitude will only work on an individual who has no Mental Traits 
left. Once you have prepared the target, spend a Willpower Trait and issue a 
Social Challenge. If you win, your target is affected as if you have bound him 
to you via the Dominate power Conditioning (Laws of the Night, p. 147). This 
lasts for one week. If you lose the Social Challenge, you may not use Gift of 
Servitude on that target for one full year. 
DARK 
THAUMATURC~ICAL 
RITUALS 
To cast aDurk Thaumaturgy ritual, follow the same procedure as for casting 
a ritual from Thaumaturgy. Make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty 
dependent on the level of the ritual: five Traits for a Basic ritual, seven for 
Intermediate and nine for Advanced. The only exceptions to this are the two 
variable-level rituals below, whose difficulty is equal to two plus the number 
of Willpower Traits that the target demon has. 
BASIC 
DARK 
THAUMATUR~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Call Forth the Host (Variable Level) 
This ritual’s existence is no secret, for folklore has spoken of infernalists’ 
ability to summon demons for untold centuries. It is taught in many forms, and 
the particulars vary widely. However, the one constant is that the ritual 
requires some form of sacrifice. Blood, souls, lives and unique material 
possessions are popular as are desecrated holy relics and items that have been 
used to perform acts of violence. The precise sacrifice depends on the nature 
of the demon in question (and is left to the Storyteller’s discretion). You must 
also know the demon’s True Name in order to summon it. 
A successful casting of this ritual does not guarantee that you have a 
willing or loyal servant. It only indicates that you have brought the demon to 
this plane of existence. To bind the demon to your will, you must defeat it in 
both a Social Challenge (to convince it of your dominance) and a Mental 
Challenge (to impose your terms of service upon it). 
If you lose the Social Challenge, you do not impress the demon with your 
transparent attempts at power and it either leaves or attacks you as it sees fit. 
If you lose the Mental Challenge, the demon returns to Hell rather than accept 
such unfavorable terms. If you are unfortunate enough to lose both challenges, 
the demon drags you back to Hell as it goes - 
make a new character. If you win 
both of these challenges, you must then expend a number of Mental Traits 
equal to the demon’s Willpower Traits (see below) in order to finish binding 
it to your will. You may spend additional Mental Traits at this time to increase 
the length of the demon’s service to you; see below. If you are unable to expend 
the full number of Mental Traits, the result is the same as if you had failed the 
Mental Challenge to impose your terms of service upon the demon. 
If the entire procedure is successful, your demon is your loyal (though not 
blindly loyal) servant for a period equal to 24 hours, minus one hour per Mental 
Trait you had to expend to complete the binding, plus one hour for every 
additional Mental Trait you spent. At the end of this time, the demon vanishes 
in a flash of hellfire, returning to its infernal home. You must be careful to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


phrase your commands very precisely as most demons summoned with this 
ritual are resentful and will only obey the letter of the order unless you placate 
them with very favorable terms of service. “Very favorable” depends on the 
demon in question, and the Storyteller is free to make you research it. 
Bind the Interloper (Variable Level) 
Infemalists are a fractious lot, and the purposes of one may lie against those 
of another. Bind the Interloper allows you to take control of a demon that 
another infemalist has summoned, turning it against its former master. The 
inducements you may use to achieve this end are varied, ranging from blood 
to material items to souls, and the precise forms of the ritual depend on what 
you believe will attract the demon’s attention. You must also know the True 
Name of the demon in question and the name or face of the infemalist whom 
it serves. Finally, your Dark Thaumaturgy must be at an equal or greater level 
than that required to summon the demon in the first place (see below). 
Bind the Interloper requires 15 minutes to cast for every Willpower Trait 
the target demon has. If the casting is successful, you have attracted the 
demon’s attention. You must then defeat its current master in a Mental 
Challenge. If you win, the demon transfers its loyalty to you for the 
remainder of its term of service. If you lose, you lose three Willpower Traits 
and the demon’s master receives a perfect mental picture of your face 
(though no other information concerning your identity unless the demon is 
on good enough terms with him to tell him) and the knowledge that you just 
tried to take his servant away from him. 
Curse of Oedipus 
By invoking the legacy of Oedipus, who tore out his eyes when he became 
aware of his crimes against his own family, you may inflict temporary blindness 
on a victim. You must know the face of your intended target, and you must 
concentrate on this image while inhaling the fumes from a burning stick of 
incense. When the incense is done burning, your victim receives the Flaw: 
Blind (Laws of the Night, p. 1 16) for five hours, minus one hour for every Trait 
of Conscience or Conviction he has (thus, individuals with five Conscience or 
Conviction Traits are immune to the Curse 0fOedipu.s). During this time, the 
victim is overcome by grief for every wrong, real or imagined, that he has 
committed, and he weeps tears of blood (which can be deeply disturbing for 
mortals and a threat to the Masquerade for Cainites). 
Video Nefa 
The forces of Hell are everywhere, or so most infemalists believe. Accord- 
ingly, the sum of all knowledge is open to you if you can find the demon who 
knows what you want to learn. V h o  Nefus allows you to commune with an 
invisible messenger imp who whispers the secrets of the universe in your ear. 
Beware, though: this ritual causes the demons it commands to tell you the truth, 
but they will only tell you as much of that truth as you can force them to reveal. 
To enact Video Nefas, write your question in black ink, using a sharpened 
bone as a stylus. Snap the bone in two, bum the surface that you wrote the 
question on and make five Simple Tests. The number of these Tests that you 
win or tie determines how much information your demon informants reveal to 
you. You may not declare retests for these tests though a generous Storyteller 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


may allow you to perform Mental Tests to analyze the accuracy of the answers 
if you possess Abilities that relate to the subject of the question. 
With one win or tie, you can learn the answer to a “yes or no” question. Two 
gives you a short sentence’s worth of information. If you win or tie three times, 
you receive a short synopsis (three to five sentences). A complete answer, 
perhaps two or three paragraphs’ worth, comes with four wins or ties. If you win 
or tie all five Simple Tests, you learn the complete truth behind the subject of 
your inquiry, perhaps even facts previously unknown to any mortal or Cainite. 
I NTFRMFDIATF DARK 
THAUMATUR~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Felis Negrum 
Rumors of Gangrel infemalists abound because of this ritual, which allows 
you to change yourself or another individual into a black cat. To cast Felis 
Negrum on yourself, you must have three whiskers from a black cat; to transform 
someone else, you will need the skin of a white cat. You must bum this material 
over a one-foot square of glass, then inscribe on the glass, in your own blood, the 
name of the individual you wish to transform (using one Blood Trait). 
If you use this ritual on yourself, its effects last indefinitely, and you can return 
to your natural form whenever you wish. A ghoul or a mortal is transformed for 24 
hours while another vampire is changed for 13 nights, less one night for every 
Morality Trait he has. If you cast this ritual on an unwilling recipient, you must 
defeat him in a Mental Challenge after a successful casting. This metamorphosis 
only changes the subject’s physical form; it doesnot affect clothingorcarried items. 
A character in cat form loses his normal Physical Traits; they are replaced 
with one Trait each of &le, 
Energetic, Nimble and Quick. His normal Social 
Traits remain, though he may have some difficulty applying them under most 
circumstances as he loses the power of speech. His Mental Traits also remain 
as normal. He is an exceptionally durable cat, however, as he retains his usual 
Health Levels, Disciplines and Blood Pool. A transformed vampire is a 
vampiric cat, complete with fangs, a lack of pulse or respiration and bite and 
claw attacks that do one Health Level of aggravated damage. The magic of this 
change renders the subject immune to Dominate and Presence, but Animalism 
affects him as if he were an actual cat. 
Plague’s Secret Domain 
Although many Kindred consider themselves safe from mortal diseases, 
they overlook illnesses of the mind and heart. P h p ’ s  Secret Donain unlocks 
the secrets of these maladies, allowing you to inflict a morbid weariness on 
mortal and vampire alike. Casting this ritual requires you to intone a one-hour 
chant in front of a ritual fire in which you bum the corpse of a freshly killed 
mourning dove. At the end of the hour, you must extinguish the fire with two 
Blood Traits from someone pure of heart (five Humanity Traits), then spend 
any number of temporary or permanent Willpower Traits and defeat your 
intended victim in a Mental Challenge. 
Once you have successfully cast Plague’s Secret Domain, your target falls into 
a crushing depression, which she should roleplay. She is down two Traits on any 
Social or Mental Challenge due to listlessness and apathy, and is down three 
Traits (these penalties are cumulative) on any challenge that may result in her 
death. These effects last for one night for every temporary Willpower Trait you 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


spent and one lunar month for every permanent Willpower Trait you spent. A 
vampire whose depression lasts for one lunar month or more must win a Self- 
Control or Instincts Virtue Test against a difficulty of the number of permanent 
Willpower Traits you spent. If she fails, she enters torpor at the end of the ritual's 
duration. A mortal whose depression lasts a similar length of time must win the 
same Virtue Test or commit suicide when the ritual's duration expires. 
ADVANCED 
DARK THAUMATUR~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Close the Ways 
If your hatred of a given target - 
or at least your ill will- is great enough, 
you can wreak untold havoc upon his fortune. Close the Ways is the path to such 
doom. It is deceptively simple in its execution. To cast it, you must meditate 
naked while kneeling on a stone surface for six hours while 14 black candles 
bum down around you. At the end of this time, you extinguish all 14 candles 
with the palm of your left hand. As each candle flame goes out, speak the birth 
name of your target. You must also expend seven temporary and three 
permanent Traits each in the Social and Mental categories as well as a 
permanent Willpower Trait. If the ritual fails, you still lose the Willpower 
Trait, though not the permanent Attribute Traits. 
Your victim suffers catastrophic bad luck if this ritual succeeds. First, all 
Influence expenditures require one more Trait than normal as strings don't 
pull as easily and pawns are difficult to contact and exert pressure over. Second, 
he treats all ties on Simple Tests as losses. Third and most damaging, he gains 
the Cursed Negative Trait, and anyone who knows of the curse may bid against 
him in any challenge. These effects persist for a number of months equal to the 
number of permanent Willpower Traits you possess after casting the ritual. 
You may remove this ritual's effects should you so choose, as may anyone 
else who knows Close the Ways. This requires a one-hour ceremony conducted 
in a graveyard in which the individual lifting the curse cuts off his own left 
hand (incurring three levels of lethal damage) and expends a permanent 
Willpower Trait. 
Into the Abyss 
Although the wisdom of such a course of action is debatable at best, 
sometimes insanity is the only option. Into the Abyss is insane by most 
standards, even those of infernalists, for this ritual opens a portal to Hell itself. 
Some dark thaumaturges claim that this is the best way to commune with 
demons of great power while others tell stories of ancient treasures (or 
slumbering Methuselahs) contained in the depths of the infernal regions. Still 
others study this ritual as a last hope against the threat of capture. 
To enact Into the Abyss, you must spend 24 hours, midnight to midnight, 
painting the sigils of power on a stone wall with the blood of children and a 
brush made from the hair of a white horse. Staying awake during the day 
requires one Static Mental Challenge for every hour of local daylight, with a 
difficulty of nine Traits minus the vampire's number of Morality Traits (retest 
with Survival). Once you have successfully cast the ritual, the portal opens and 
remains open for a number of hours equal to your permanent Willpower Traits. 
During this time, anyone can enter the portal. No one, including a demon, can 
leave Hell through it without your express permission. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


This ritual is a particularly problematic one in a live-action setting, due 
to the difficulty inherent in simulating Hell and the potential issues that such 
a game raises. Storytellers are advised to use Into the Abyss for dramatic effect, 
not as a garbage disposal for groups of player characters. 
Sup F RI o R I) 
F MFNTATI o N 
Elder Dementation: Lingering Malaise 
While lesser Malkavians are only able to inflict temporary (though 
sometimes very long-lasting) insanity on their victims, your power to twist the 
psyche has progressed to such an extent that you can gift your subjects with 
permanent psychological shifts and dementia. 
You must speak to your victim for at least a minute, describing in vivid and 
precise detail the derangement that you wish to inflict upon her. This may take 
place in the middle of an ordinary conversation if you wish; you do not have to 
explicitly state what you are doing until you make the challenge. When you have 
described the derangement in sufficient detail, spend a Willpower Trait and make 
a Social Challenge. If you win, your target receives one permanent derangement 
of your choice. You may only inflict one derangement per game session on any 
given target, though you may make multiple attempts until you succeed. 
In the interest of fairness, it’s polite to get Storyteller approval for any “non- 
standard” (i.e. “not published in a Mind’s Eye Theatre book”) derangement. 
Elder Dementation: Shattered Mirror 
Although some Dementation powers are subtle, initiating or promoting 
insanity, Shattered Mirror results in immediate and devastating effects. With 
but a glance, you can bestow your own psychological afflictions on another 
victim, spreading your own derangements like a psychological virus. 
To inflict Shattered Mirror, make eye contact with your target, spend a 
Willpower Trait and one or more Mental Traits, and defeat her in a Social 
Challenge. Your victim receives allof your derangements and Mental Flaws for 
one night per Mental Trait you expended. 
Master Dementation: Restructure 
At this level of mastery, you may now rewrite the most fundamental aspects 
of a subject’s mind, changing his very self-image and worldview. Victims of 
Resmture often compare the experience to a religious rebirth or a philosophical 
epiphany and state that their new mindset feels completely natural and they 
don’t really understand why they used to act the way they did. Your target retains 
all his memories but may view his previous actions in a radically different light. 
To Restructure a subject, make eye contact with him, spend a number of 
Mental Traits equal to his total number of permanent Willpower Traits and 
initiate a Social Challenge. If you win, his Nature changes to one of your choice, 
and your subject should roleplay his new mindset appropriately. This effect is 
permanent unless undone by another application of Restructure, though even 
such a restoration is hardly flawless due to the complexity of the effort. 
If you lose the Social Challenge, including all retests, your victim may 
spend a Willpower Trait to initiate a Social Challenge against you. If he wins, 
your Nature changes to his Nature for the next lunar month. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Ascendant Dementation: Personal Scourge 
This fearsome power goes beyond the psychological aspects of madness. 
With Personal Scourge, you may turn a victim’s own mind against him in a 
psychic attack with explicit physical manifestations. In effect, he is tom apart 
by the force of his own will. His body erupts in violent stigmata - 
bruises, 
lacerations, punctures and abrasions appear over the surface of his skin as he 
sprays blood and howls in agony. Observers using Aura Perception see the 
victim’s aura exude spiritual tendrils and lashes even as it swirls into the 
patterns of extreme psychosis. 
To attack a victim with Personal Scourge, you must touch him or make eye 
contact, spend two Willpower Traits, and defeat him in a Social Challenge. 
For each of the next three turns, he makes a number of Simple Tests equal to 
his number of permanent Willpower Traits. Each test he loses is one level of 
lethal damage that he receives. During these three turns, he may take no 
actions other than thrashing, gibbering and howling in agony - 
this includes 
spending blood to heal himself. 
Methuselah Dementation: Lunatic Emption 
Most Malkavians know of this power’s existence, if only as a dim legend 
passed down through the clan. It has seen no confirmed use in the modem era, 
and the only reliable account of its appearance in past nights places a 
Malkavian Methuselah at the final battle of Carthage. Lunatic Eruption is a 
devastating area-wide psychic effect that triggers a massive orgy of destruction. 
Unconfirmedrumors from within the Black Hand state that one of the Seraphs 
knows, or has access to a master of, this power and has used it as a threat against 
the Camarilla in recent nights. 
To activate Lunatic Eruption, spend eight Willpower Traits and make a 
Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of 12 Traits. The entire city (or 
everyone in a radius of 30 miles if you are not in an urban area) falls into 
temporary insanity. Mortals riot, loot, rape and bum. Cainites go berserk or 
enter hunger frenzies, laying waste to all in their path and draining as many 
vessels as they can consume. Other supernatural beings suffer similar effects: 
Werewolves take their war forms and go berserk against any likely target, and 
magicians and fae revel in the sudden influx of wild power they receive. These 
effects persist until the next sunrise. 
A Cainite who’s caught in the “blast radius’’ must make a Self-control/ 
Instincts Virtue Test against a five-Trait difficulty. If she fails, she succumbs to 
the madness and instantly frenzies. Once she recovers from the initial frenzy, 
she is down three Traits on any further attempt to resist any other frenzy trigger 
for the rest of the night. 
This sort of game-wide effect is best used as a background plot device. The 
Storyteller should convene an all-hands meeting (preferably at the beginning of 
the game session) in order to conduct the mass Virtue Test and to ensure that all 
players know what is happening to them and around them. It’s hard to simulate a 
howling mob in live action, so player understanding of offstage events is key. 
MYTHFRCFRIA 
The reclusive Kiasyd care little for the affairs of other Kindred, so reliable 
knowledge of their bastardized faerie powers is difficult to come by. Those few 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sabbat who have dealt with Kiasyd characterize their Discipline, Mythreria, 
as a path of twisted perceptions - 
whether those perceptions be of the Kiasyd 
or of her unfortunate victims. In some ways, My therceriu is similar to Auspex for 
its ability to reveal insights about the world; in others, it resembles Dementution 
in its ability to bring the sturdiest mind crashing down in madness. Few, if any, 
Kiasyd are willing to teach this Discipline to outsiders. They value the power 
that it gives them and fear that, were their abilities too well-known, the 
Sabbat’s regard for their might could turn to mindless hunger. 
Mytherceria users retest with the Awareness Ability. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, the specialized Ability Faerie Lore may augment or replace Awure- 
ness for this purpose. 
BASIC MYTHERCERIA 
Folderol 
The first shroud of reality through which you see is that of untruth. This 
power’s precise manifestation varies with each practitioner. You may weep or 
sweat blood, see the liar’s tongue assume unnatural shapes or colors, or 
experience a crawling sensation on your hands or neck. Regardless of the 
trappings, the result is the same: you know a lie when you hear one. 
When someone makes a statement that you want to assess, make a Static 
Mental Challenge with a difficulty of the subject’s number of Social Traits, plus 
one for every Subterfuge Ability Trait he has. Success indicates that you know 
with absolute certainty whether or not the statement was true. You must be able 
to hear the statement as it is spoken (or read the speaker’s lips if you are deaf), 
and you must make this challenge for each statement that you want to analyze. 
Fae Sight 
Your ability to view multiple levels of reality at once has advanced to the 
point that you can perceive all things fae as they truly are. With a small amount 
of effort, you can also scrutinize an area to determine if faerie magic was 
recently used there or if faerie beings were present. 
The first part of this power is always in effect. No challenge is needed. You 
instantly recognize all fae beings as such. If you are viewing a faerie in a mortal 
body, you see the individual‘s true form with a ghostly superimposed silhouette 
of its “human” appearance. 
To determine if an area held fae creatures or was subjected to fae magic 
within the past three nights, concentrate for a turn and expend a Mental Trait. 
Traces of faerie presence appear to you as faintly glowing footprints, runes or 
scorch marks. Interpretation of these signs may require one or more Static 
Mental Challenges, as determined by the Storyteller, but you can always tell 
whether or not the signs are actually there. 
INTERMEDIATE 
MYTHERCERIA 
Aura Absorption 
This power is virtually identical to the first Intermediate Auspex power, 
Spirit’s Touch, and the same rules should be applied (Laws of the Night, p. 
138). However, when youexamine anobject with Aura Absorption, youdevour 
the psychic traces on it. Anyone who attempts to examine the same object 
with The Spirit’s Touch or Aura Absorption after you have finished with it must 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


win a Static Mental Challenge against your permanent Mental Traits in order 
to glean any impressions. 
Chanjelin Ward 
You may create arcane glyphs that reveal your own altered perceptions to 
others. However, most individuals don’t handle seeing reality the way you see 
it. While not directly threatening, these wards are sufficiently distracting that 
most characters who see them become disoriented, which may lead to other 
unpleasant complications. These wards may guard a single object, affect an 
individual who wears the clothing on which they are inscribed or fill an entire 
room with their effects. 
To inscribe a Chanjelin Ward, spend one turn tracing the ward on the 
target object with your fingertip (if warding an entire room, spend 10 minutes 
tracing the ward on the floor) and make a Static Mental Challenge with a 
difficulty of seven traits. Success means that anyone touching the object or 
entering the room is down two Traits on all Mental Challenges for as long as 
she is in contact with the item or in the room. Additionally, she must win a 
Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of nine Traits or become lost until 
someone leads her to familiar surroundings. 
If the object you are warding is currently worn by another individual, make 
a Mental Challenge against her instead. Success inflicts the above effects on 
her, but no one else is affected by the wards unless they don the afflicted item. 
A Chnjelin Ward lasts for one night. You may extend this at the time of 
creation by spending one Blood Trait per extra night. A victim is only affected 
by one Chanjelin Ward at a time. Any character who has Chanjelin Ward is 
immune to all Chanjelin Wards. 
ADVANCED 
MYTHERCERIA 
Riddle Phantastique 
Your study of “reality” has now progressed to the point that you have an 
innate knowledge of the underpinnings of the universe - 
though, to anyone 
who does not share your altered perceptions, this knowledge is closer to 
madness. You may share your unique insights with any one subject who can 
hear you ask your penetrating philosophical questions (and, of course, under- 
stand the language in which you are speaking). The Riddle Phantastique is so 
arcane that it can drive its victims to madness, even self-inflicted injury, until 
they solve it. Insanity is neither a sure solution nor a certain doom where the 
Riddle Phantastique is concerned. Some deranged minds are capable of unrav- 
eling it with ease while others are driven even farther into incoherence. 
To inflict the Riddle Phantastique, speak to your victim and make a 
challenge that pits your Social Traits against her Mental Traits. If you win, the 
subject falls into a trance state as the complexities of your twisted logic ensnare 
her mind. She may take no actions while so entranced as all her concentration 
is devoted to solving the riddle. 
Once per half-hour, the victim makes a Static Mental Challenge against a 
difficulty of your Mental Traits (retest with Occult, and she gains a number of free 
Occult Ability Traits, usable only for these retests, equal to the number of 
Dementation powers she has). Once she wins three such tests, she solves the riddle 
and breaks the trance. Every time she fails a retest, she tears at herself in spasms of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


raging frustration, inflicting one level of lethal damage upon herself. At any time, 
you may tell her the answer to the Riddle Phuntastique and end the trance. The same 
individual may be the target of Riddle Phuntastique on multiple occasions as you 
have a virtually limitless supply of questions. For roleplaying purposes, you may 
want to have a supply of Zen riddles or advanced calculus problems on hand so that 
you can actually issue your enigma as an in-character statement. 
SUPERIOR 
MYTHERCERIA 
Elder Mytherceria: Steal the Mind 
Though it superficially resembles some forms of telepathy, Steal the Mind is 
a much more invasive power than those of Advanced and Superior Auspex. 
Many Kiasyd believe that their line’s founder developed this ability from the 
memory-altering arts of his faerie brethren. At this level of mastery, your ability 
to perceive various aspects of reality is so advanced that you may plumb the 
depths of a subject’s psyche for any memory he has - 
even those that he has 
repressed or someone else has erased with Dominate. This theft is temporary, for 
a victim’s memories trickle through your fingers over the course of the night, but 
while you have possession of your subject’s mind, he is little more than a husk. 
To steal a victim’s mind, make eye contact with him, spend a Willpower 
Trait, and initiate a Mental Challenge. If you succeed, you have full access to 
all of his memories. He becomes comatose or torporous, depending on whether 
he is mortal or Cainite. You may search his mind for anything that he knows, 
though Static Mental Challenges (with Storyteller assistance) may be neces- 
sary to find suppressed or erased information. You retain the victim’s memories 
for one hour (unless you choose to give them back sooner), and may extend this 
time by spending Willpower Traits at the rate of one per additional hour. If you 
feel benevolent, you may choose to release your victim’s mind at any time. 
While you are in possession of your victim’s mind, you gain a number of 
Knowledgeable Mental Traits equal to one-third the total number of Mental 
Traits he has (rounded down). However, you also receive an equal number of 
Oblivious Negative Mental Traits thanks to the distraction that holding two 
sets of memories in your head incurs. 
Master Mytherceria: Absorb the Mind 
While Steal the Mind allows you to pilfer a subject’s memories, Absorb the 
Mind goes beyond even this impressive theft, allowing you to “borrow” 
portions of your victim’s psyche, taking the fruits of his learning for your own. 
This procedure is less overtly invasive than Steal the Mind, for the subject is still 
able to function, but many of its victims consider it much crueler. 
To absorb a portion of your victim’s mind, make eye contact, spend a 
Willpower Trait and any number of Mental Traits, and initiate a Mental 
Challenge. If you win, you may take a number of Ability Traits from your 
victim equal to the number of Mental Traits you spent to activate Absorb the 
Mind. Your victim loses these Traits as if he had spent them for retests, 
regaining them normally at the next game session. You may spend these stolen 
Traits as if they were your own, but once spent (or at the end of the session, if 
you haven’t spent them by then) they return to their rightful owner. 
Ascendant Mytherceria: The Grandest Trick 
According to Lasombra legend, the Kiasyd share a strong bond with the 
fae folk-strong enough to call upon the faerie blood that taints the bloodline. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Grandest Trick is a bittersweet legacy of this blood, for it allows you to 
temporarily bring the faint traces of faerie heritage to the forefront of your 
blood, overwhelming Caine’s curse for a few precious hours. 
To perform The Gradest Trick, spend 10 Blood Traits and one or more 
Willpower Traits and make a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of 
15 Traits minus your number of Morality Traits. If you succeed, you briefly 
shrug off the Curse of Caine and revert to mortality (including your pre- 
Embrace mortal appearance) at the next sunrise. You retain no vampiric 
qualities while mortal. You have no Blood Pool, and you lose access to all 
Disciplines except the second basic Mytherceria power, FIX Sight. You lose all 
Attribute and Ability Traits in excess of normal human maximums (10 
Attribute Traits per category, a maximum of five Traits in any one Ability, and 
a maximum of six Willpower Traits; you decide which Traits to cross off). You 
do not actually lose all memory of being a vampire, though all of your 
experiences in unlife take on a hazy, dreamlike quality, and you must make a 
Static Mental Challenge against a nine-Trait difficulty to recall any specifics 
of Cainite existence. To outside observers, you appear a normal mortal, though 
your aura appears to be that of a faerie. 
The Gradest Trick lasts for one hour per Willpower Trait you spent when 
you activated the power. When you have one hour of “mortality” left, you 
begin to feel a strange compulsion to seek shelter from sunlight. You are aware 
of your impending return to unlife, even if you are unable to recall any other 
aspect of your personal history. When this power’s duration of effect expires, 
you instantly revert to your normal state of existence, regaining all Traits and 
Disciplines. Your Blood Pool contains 10 Blood Traits when this power wears 
off, regardless of how many you had left when you invoked The Grandest Trick. 
If you are killed while in mortal form, you die and may not be re-Embraced. 
NECROMANCY 
Though the Giovanni clan likes to claim exclusive mastery of necroman- 
tic blood magic, the truth is that Necromancy is something of an open secret. 
While it’s not a subject that a Camarilla occultist teaches for cash, nor does a 
Sabbat priscus know necromantic rites to go with her auctoritas rim, odds are 
that a truly dedicated Cainite scholar can find an instructor for the right price. 
Necromancy may be more common in the Sabbat than in the Camarilla, due 
in part to the interest that practitioners of the Path of Death and the Soul have 
in it. For that matter, Necromancy is largely held to be amore “acceptab1e”form 
of blood magic than Thaumaturgy as the former deals more closely with the 
undead condition. As with Thumturgy, Necromancy is hardly an organized 
field of study in the sect, and lessons are largely a matter of catch as catch can. 
There are a few somewhat cohesive groups within the Sabbat which 
practice Necromancy, though none are large enough to be formal organizations 
of scholars in any sense. Some Tzimisce kolduns are versed in the Ash Path, which 
they use as a means of dealing with another family of spirits. A small but 
widespread network ofNosferatuantitrh.4 and Sabbat-affiliated Samedi collabo- 
rate in using various Sepulchre Path arts for their own ends, most often the 
acquisitionofpriceless information. The Sabbat Inquisition and the Black Hand 
are both believed to use various rituals in their investigations and operations, 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


though this is more rumor than fact. Finally, the recently arrived Harbingers of 
Skulls make use of their own unique permutation on the dark arts. 
THE 
MORTUUS 
PATH 
The Harbingers of Skulls claim to have developed their proprietary 
Mortuus Path during their long sojourn in the Underworld. Of course, whether 
this is true or simply another one of the veils in which the Harbingers wrap 
themselves is a matter of some conjecture. Regardless, the Harbingers do have 
access to powers that no Giovanni has ever demonstrated or admitted to 
knowing. The Mortuus Path deals with the physical processes and manifesta- 
tions of death as they affect the physical form. 
The Harbingers learn the Mortuus Path as their primary Necromancy path. 
Once a Harbinger has attained the first Intermediate level of this path, he may 
begin to study the basic levels of another. Once he reaches the Advanced level 
of the Mortuus Path, he may raise his second path to the Intermediate level and 
begin to study the remaining paths, which he may not raise past the second 
Basic level until he has reached the Advanced stage of his second path. 
Though the Harbingers shouldn’t be player characters, they have taught the 
basics of their art to a very few students, most of whom seem to have been 
selected for no identifiable common quality. As always with blood magic, the 
accessibility of these powers is wholly subject to Storyteller approval. 
BASIC MORTUUS 
PATH 
NECROMANCY 
Reaper’s Shroud 
You may take on the semblance of a corpse or inflict this same transfigu- 
ration on another individual. The victim of this power resembles a cadaver in 
the advanced stages of deterioration - 
skin yellows and stretches, eyeballs 
shrink, and joints become stiff. Though the most obvious application of this 
power is as a temporary curse, some practitioners use it as a means of disguise 
or concealment or simply to terrify unsuspecting mortals. 
If you wish to assume this form yourself, simply spend a Blood Trait. The 
change is instantaneous. If you want to inflict it on another subject, you must 
spend the Blood Trait and defeat him in a challenge of your Mental Traits 
against his Physical Traits. The subject of Reaper’s Shroud gains the Negative 
Physical Traits Decrepit and Lethargic and the Negative Social Trait Repugnant. 
However, she also gains one free retest on any attempt to remain completely 
motionless (including attempts to be stealthy while not moving), and she is up 
three Traits on any challenge in which she attempts to intimidate or to inflict 
fear. The effects of this power last until the next sunrise or sunset, at which time 
they fade. A vampire can remove all these effects by spending two Blood Traits 
to reverse her body’s deterioration. 
Blight 
With Blight, you can push a victim closer to the edge of her grave, spinning 
out the thread of her life by decades in a single moment. Your target suffers all 
the effects of advanced age: wrinkled and weathered skin, arthritic joints, 
fragile bones, poor perception and occasionally even mental impairment. 
To inflict Blight on someone, touch her, spend a Blood Trait and defeat her 
in a challenge of your Mental Traits against her Physical Traits. Until the next 
dusk or dawn, your victim receives the following Negative Traits: Decrepit, Sickly 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and her choice of Delicate, Dull, Forgetful or Obliuious. Additionally, a mortal 
victim of Blight risks cardiac arrest. Every turn that she engages in strenuous 
activity, she must win a Static Physical Challenge with a five-Trait difficulty or 
suffer a heart attack, the effects of which are left to the Storyteller’s discretion. 
INTERMEDIATE 
MORTUUS PATH 
NECROMANCY 
Resume the Coil 
This subtle but potent art allows you to defeat the effects of torpor, raising 
a slumbering Cainite from the sleep of ages. It is one of the few Discipline 
powers that a character can use while in torpor, though most practitioners have 
no particular desire to enter this condition on a regular basis. Resume the Coil 
is by no means a soothing experience to undergo as it awakens its sleeping 
subject’s body with a sudden infusion of the very energies of death itself, much 
like an undead equivalent of cardiac shock paddles. Many recipients of this 
power have reported strange visions or near-Final Death experiences. 
To activate Resume the Coil, spend a Willpower Trait and make a Static 
Mental Challenge against a number of Traits equal to 10 minus your target’s 
number of Morality Traits. If you are attempting to awaken yourself, you must 
spend an additional Willpower Trait. If you are using this power on another 
individual, you must touch him. A vampire who entered torpor due to lack of 
blood awakens with one Blood Trait, and will not enter a hunger frenzy for the 
first hour after he arises. 
True Death 
A power whose benefits are not altogether certain or obvious, True Death 
is just what its name implies. For a brief period of time, you may cast off the 
Curse of Caine - 
but unlike other methods of attaining such a goal, True Death 
renders you both clinically and spiritually dead. Your body becomes an inert 
cadaver, indistinguishable from that of any other dead mortal, and it obeys all 
the laws thereof. Sunlight and True Faith have no particular effect on you, your 
blood is stale and unpalatable, and you exhibit no signs of life or unlife, lacking 
even an aura. However, your soul is trapped in an inanimate husk, and the only 
action you may attempt is awakening from this slumber. 
You may automatically assume this form at any time. Awakening from it, 
however, requires you to expend two Blood Traits. While you are under True 
Death’s effects, you have no access to any Disciplines, even “automatic” ones 
such as Fortitude. You do not, however, consume blood nightly, nor do you enter 
torpor unless you choose to. The only way your body can be externally 
distinguished from that of a deceased mortal is with extended observation over 
a period of years (beyond the scope of most games): You do not decay. However, 
if you have more than 10 Blood Traits in your Blood Pool and an enterprising 
medical examiner cuts you open, the excess erupts from the incision in a high- 
pressure crimson fountain (reducing you to 10 Blood Traits in the process). 
Barring outside interference, you may remain “dead” as long as you like. 
Anyone attempting to drain or drink your blood may take you down to zero 
Blood Traits in your system but may not diablerize you, and the blood they 
remove is considered “generic” mortal blood. However, any damage to your 
uninhabited “corpse” that would kill a vampire with no special Disciplines of 
resilience does, in fact, inflict Final Death upon you. Decapitation is still fatal, 
as is total incineration. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ADVANCED 
MORTUUS 
PATH 
NECROMANCY 
Mercy for Seth 
Plague has always been one of humanity’s greatest fears. With this power, 
you can visit such a fate upon your victims. This is a blood magic-generated effect 
and does not actually produce a virus or bacterium, but instead simulates the 
effects of such plagues with uncanny accuracy. Many Cainite elders who witness 
Mercy for Seth in action are uncomfortably reminded of the various plagues that 
swept through Europe in the 11th through 15th centuries. Symptoms include 
blackened and bloated skin, blood sweat, blood in bodily excretions, suppurating 
lesions, swollen glands, chills, fever and delirium. A mortal victim of this plague 
generally dies within 24 hours while a vampire sinks into torpor. 
To apply Mercy for Seth to a target, you must touch him, spend a Willpower 
Trait and a Blood Trait, and win a challenge of your Mental Traits against his 
Physical Traits. A victim must make one Static Physical Challenge against a 
five-Trait difficulty every hour. If he loses, he takes one level of lethal damage 
(if mortal) or receives one Negative Physical Trait of Sickly (if Cainite). A 
vampire who accumulates a number of Sickly Traits equal to his number of 
Physical Traits sinks into torpor. 
Mercy for Seth’s effects cannot be cured through scientific/medical tech- 
niques, though various magical practices or herbal remedies may have some 
effect at the Storyteller’s discretion. The “plague” leaves its victim on the third 
sunrise after it was inflicted, so a particularly hardy character may be able to 
stave it off long enough to walk away. 
NECROMANTIC 
RITUALS 
These sinister rites use the same system presented in Laws of the Night (p. 
156). They originated with Sabbat practitioners ofNecronumcy, but they are not 
wholly exclusive to the sect. However, these secrets are anything but common, 
even within the Sabbat, and the Storyteller should feel free to treat them as even 
more difficult to acquire than sect-specific Thaumaturgical rituals. 
BASIC NECROMANTIC 
RITUALS 
Eldritch Beacon 
This ritual allows you to create a small token that makes the bearer stand 
out like a bonfire in the lands of the dead. Melt a green candle and mold its wax 
into a half-inch sphere. The bearer of this sphere, aware or otherwise, is down 
one Trait on any attempts to resist the powers of any ghost (Arcanoi, if you are 
using Oblivion). This effect lasts for one hour, plus one hour for every Blood 
Trait you expend when casting the ritual. 
Puppet 
Some Sabbat necromancers use Puppet to facilitate interrogations of the 
dead while others use it to shock the living (or the unliving) into cooperation. 
By smearing herb-laden grave soil across the eyes, lips and forehead of a subject, 
you prepare him for ghostly possession. For the rest of the scene, any wraith that 
attempts to enter the subject’s body and take control of him gains one free retest. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


INTERMEDIATE 
NECROMANTIC 
RITUALS 
Din of the Damned 
This ritual bears some similarities to Call of the Hungry Dead (Laws of the 
Night, p. 157) in that it makes the sounds of the Underworld audible in the 
physical realm. However, Din of the Damned affects an enclosed chamber, not 
an individual. Some necromancers use it to ensure privacy while others simply 
cast it for the psychological effect it has on those who encounter it. 
To ward a room in this manner, draw an unbroken line of crematorium ash 
around its perimeter (you may go over doors and windows to allow entrance). 
Until dawn, any attempt to eavesdrop on events inside the room, be it 
mundane, technologically- enhanced or supernatural, requires a Static Mental 
Challenge against a nine-Trait difficulty. Failure means the listener is partially 
deafened by an unholy cacophony of ghostly screams and howling winds and 
receives the Negative Mental Traits Oblivious x 2 for the rest of the night. 
Peek Past the Shroud 
Ergot is a black mold that grows on unharvested grain in cold, damp 
weather. In its natural form, it is poisonous and can cause hallucinations. This 
ritual allows you to enchant a handful of ergot to create a small amount of a 
substance that allows limited second sight. A successful ritual transforms a 
handful of ergot into three doses of a fine black powder. An individual who 
consumes one dose of this powder gains the benefits of Shroudsight (Basic Ash 
Path Necromncy, Laws of the Night, p. 154) for three hours. If you fail your 
initial Mental Challenge to cast the ritual and subsequently fail a retest, the 
ergot becomes highly poisonous. Any character (even a vampire) who ingests 
the product of such a critically failed ritual takes four levels of lethal damage. 
This cannot be used to create large amounts of toxin (in other words, no, you 
can’t deliberately fail in order to manufacture poison; those who try may find 
themselves with large batches of inert sludge). 
ADVANCED 
NECROMANTIC 
RITUAL 
Chill of Oblivion 
This potent rite allows a necromancer to infuse her body or that of a 
willing subject with the proverbial cold of the grave. This ritual has several 
benefits, though its risks are not inconsiderable. To enact Chill ofoblivion, the 
subject must lie naked on bare earth while a one-foot cube of ice melts on her 
chest (mortal subjects take three levels of bashing damage from the extreme 
cold). This takes an entire night (the ritual causes the ice to melt at a uniform 
speed regardless of the air temperature). Once Chill of Oblivion is completed, 
its effects last for one week. 
An individual affected by Chill of Oblivion converts aggravated damage 
from fire and high temperatures to lethal damage. She may also attempt to 
extinguish any open flame with which she is in contact by spending a 
Willpower Trait and making a Static Mental Challenge against a number of 
Traits determined by the fire’s size: three for a lighter or candle, five for a torch, 
eight for a bonfire, 12 for a room OT 18 for an entire building. The Narrator 
representing the fire may attempt to overbid on this challenge. 
While under Chill ofoblivion, the character’s aura is laced with writhing 
black lines that appear as proof of diablerie to anyone not intimately familiar 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


with this ritual. She also draws in heat from her immediate environment, 
giving her the Flaws Touch of Frost and Eerie Presence. Finally, the taint of the 
Underworld makes her appealing to malevolent spirits and susceptible to their 
arts; all such entities are up three Traits when using their powers on her (Dark 
Arcanoi, if you are using Oblivion). 
SUPERIOR 
OBTENEBRATION 
Elder Obtenebration: The Darkness Within 
Though the casual observer may mistake this power’s manifestation for 
that of ShroudofNight (Laws of the Night, p. 164), your command of the very 
stuff of darkness now reaches far beyond simple summoning. The cloud of 
shadow that you produce with The Darkness Within is an extension of your 
tainted soul, and its touch drains both courage and life from its victims. 
To assault someone with The Darkness Within, spend a Blood Trait and a 
Willpower Trait. A cloud of shadow pours forth from whatever orifice you choose. 
Most Lasornbra expel this shadow from their mouths, though some cut themselves 
and let the darkness leak from the wound or command it to spring forth from other 
areas of their bodies. Whatever the precise source of this shadow, it rushes forward 
to envelop its designated target, covering him in an inch-thick shroud of liquid 
darkness. This power may target anyone within 50 steps of you. 
While enveloped in this shadow, your victim suffers all the effects of 
Shroud of Night. If he has not previously experienced the effects of Shroud of 
Night or The Darkness Within, he must also resist Rotschreck with a two-Trait 
difficulty. Every turn, he must make a Static Physical Challenge against a five 
Traits difficulty; if he fails, the cloud drains one of his Blood Traits. 
You must maintain total concentration to keep your victim ensnared. If 
you sustain an attack, the cloud immediately rushes back to you. However, if 
you voluntarily recall the cloud, you may absorb up to half the Blood Traits 
(rounded up) that it drained from its victim. This is considered the same as 
drinking from the individual in question for purposes of blood bonds and other 
blood-borne effects. 
Elder Obtenebration: Shadowstep 
Your kinship with the shadows is such that you can use one shadow as a 
portal to another by calling on the kinship that all darkness shares with its 
ultimate source. To use Shadoeustep, you must be standing in a naturally occurring 
shadow --not one producedvia Obtenebration. Spend two Blood Traits and make 
a Static Mental Challenge against a seven-Trait difficulty. If you win, you may 
shift your position up to 50 steps, so long as the point at which you end is within 
your line of sight and is also in a natural shadow. You are not considered to have 
moved “through” the intervening space in any sense - 
outside observers see 
your form briefly obscured by a flicker like moonlight through tree branches, with 
a similar effect at the point from which you emerge. Your clothes and personal 
possessions (up to half your body weight) travel with you. If you use Shadowstep 
as a means of Fair Escape, it occurs at the same speed as a normal action, which 
means an individual using Alacrity may be able to stop you. 
You may bring one other person with you as you Shadowstep. This requires 
you to spend a Willpower Trait in addition to the power’s other costs. If your 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


traveling companion is unwilling to move with you, you must defeat her in a 
Physical Challenge; if she wins, neither of you move. 
If you wish to use Shadowstep to escape restraint, you must likewise spend 
a Willpower Trait and win a Physical Challenge against the item or person 
restraining you. If you’re held by another individual, success means you slip out 
of his grasp. If you are chained to a wall, handcuffed to a bed or tied to railroad 
tracks, a Narrator decides how many Physical Traits your bonds have. 
Master Obtenebration: Shadow Twin 
You may breathe a twisted semblance of life into an individual’s shadow, 
causing it to become a dark mannequin. During this dim servant’s short life 
span, it is your loyal servitor, obeying your commands with as much accuracy 
as its necessary limitations allow. 
To animate a shadow, make astatic Mental Challenge against nine Traits 
and expend one or more Blood Traits. If you win, the target’s shadow takes on 
a life of its own for one hour per Blood Trait you spent - 
though it will last 
no longer than the next sunrise, regardless of how much blood you use to create 
it. It has all of its parent’s Physical, Social, Mental and Ability Traits and six 
Health Levels (all Bruised for damage penalty purposes). It may invoke Shadow 
Play at the cost of one Mental Trait. ANarrator should depict the Shadow Twin 
for the duration of the night. 
A Shadow Twin may move no farther than 50 feet from its parent, though 
it may become two-dimensional and slide up walls or under doors. It may 
engage in combat, though it takes half damage from physical attacks and 
double damage from supernatural attacks, fire and sunlight. It is normally 
under your verbal command, though you may release it to its parent’s service 
if you so desire. If a Shadow Twin “dies,” its parent loses one Willpower Trait. 
You may animate a maximum number of Shadow Twins per night up to 
your number of Morality Traits. 
Ascendant Obtenebration: Oubliette 
Unlike the dungeon from which it draws its name, the Oubliette of 
Obtenebration has no opening, and thus it is inescapable unless the jailer wills 
it. It is aprison of pure abysmal shadow, summoned around its victim no matter 
where she stands. To the outside observer, a victim of this power appears to be 
drawn down a two-yard wide pool of darkness that forms under her in a second 
or less, sucks her in, ripples briefly as she passes its surface and then returns to 
imperturbable quiescence. 
To entrap a victim in an Oubliette, spend five Willpower Traits and issue 
aMentalChallenge that your victim resists with her PhysicalTraits. If you win, 
your victim is encased in the Oubliette until you release her or until sunlight 
touches the portion of the Oubliette that remains in the physical realm. You 
may only summon one Oubliette at a time. 
Your victim is transported to a frigid, unlit, unventilated, spherical 
chamber just large enough for her to touch both walls with her outstretched 
arms. If she is mortal, she suffocates in a number of minutes equal to her 
Physical Traits. If she is Cainite, she may use no powers of any Discipline of 
which she does not possess an Ascendant or Methuselah power. She may think 
as much as she likes, however; the calm surroundings and isolation give her two 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-+r 
i 
e 
bonus Traits on any Mental Challenge that she makes during this contempla- 
tion unless she has a phobia that the Oubliette would prey upon. 
Methuselah Obtenebration: Ahriman’s Demesne 
No modem accounts of this power’s use are in evidence, though several 
prominent Sabbat founders claim that Montan0 invoked it during his final 
defense of his sire. Ahriman’s Demesne allows you to summon a great, billowing 
darkness capable of destroying all who stand within it. It is unclear if the cloud 
itself serves your will or if some darkling creatures within are your willing 
legions, but the end result is the same. When the cloud withdraws into you, it 
takes with it the bodies of all those who fell to its wrath, leaving behind their 
possessions - 
the only mortal remains this world will ever see of them again. 
To summon Ahriman’s Demesne, spend any number of Willpower Traits and 
concentrate for three turns. During this time, the cloud billows out from your 
hands and eyes and under your clothing, spreading throughout a radius of 50 
paces like a cold black mist. At the end of the third turn, this entire area is 
considered to be under ShroudofNight. At the beginning of each of the next three 
turns, everyone in the area of effect who you wish to destroy must make a Static 
Physical Challenge against the number of Willpower Traits you spent invoking 
this power. If they lose, they take three Health Levels of aggravated damage. 
At the end of the third turn of damage, the cloud collapses back into you. 
Anyone who died within it, whether the fatal damage came from Ahriman’s 
Demesne or another source, disappears, though their clothes and belongings 
remain. You may not invoke this power again for the rest of the night. 
SANC~UINUS 
The unique Discipline of the Blood Brothers is a product of Tremere 
rituals and Tzimisce applications of Vicissitude that created the bloodline. 
Sanguinus allows a Blood Brother to share various parts of his body with any 
other member of his circle. This Discipline is grotesque, to say the least. Many 
of its powers evoke mindless terror in mortals. Any human who witnesses the 
effects ofOctopodor Coagulated Entity must make a Courage Virtue Test against 
a two-Trait difficulty or flee in nauseated terror. Sanguinus uses Empathy for 
retests as it requires the Blood Brother to have a certain degree of rapport with 
his circlemates in order to function at maximum efficiency. Outsiders attempt- 
ing to acquire the secrets of Sanguinus often find themselves at a disadvantage; 
many of the powers do not function as well without circlemates. 
BASIC 
SAN~UINUS 
Brother’s Blood 
The bond that each circle of Blood Brothers shares gives that circle a 
unique physical, spiritual and mental link. The blood of one is the blood of all. 
You may exploit this link to heal the wounds that your brothers sustain, 
regardless of distance. 
To use Brother’s Blood, spend a Blood Trait as if you were healing one of 
own wounds and declare which member of your circle you are healing. You may 
spend five Blood Traits over the course of several turns to heal a circlemate’s 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


aggravated wound. This Blood Trait expenditure counts against your per turn 
limit, not your target’s. 
Octopod 
Expanding on the lessons of Brother’s Blood, you may now lend limbs or 
external organs toyour circlemates. This power is horrifying to watch, not only 
for the effects on the recipient but for the effects on the donor. Experienced 
Blood Brother circles often leave their weaker members a safe distance outside 
combat, and these individuals quickly come to resemble quadruple amputees 
as they pass their limbs to comrades in need. Octopod takes effect instantly and 
over any distance within line of sight; donated parts simply vanish from the 
donor and appear attached to the recipient. 
To lend a limb, eye or ear to a circlemate, spend a Blood Trait. The loaned 
organ appears at the end of the turn, manifesting wherever the recipient wants 
it to appear. This power imparts no means of additional attack. However, an 
extra ear or eye gives two bonus Traits for resolving perception-based chal- 
lenges for the appropriate sense; an extra arm gives two bonus Traits in close 
combat, and an extra leg gives one bonus Trait for close combat and two bonus 
Traits for any balance-related challenge. You may call the limb back whenever 
you wish. This power may only be used to lend external parts - 
you may not 
give away your brain or your heart. Any supernatural enhancements your limb 
has, such as Feral Cluws or Fleshcrafted hooves, travel with it, as do any 
ornaments or jewelry, but clothing stays with you. 
INTERMEDIATE 
SAN~UINUS 
Gestalt 
Though you normally share a low-level mental bond with your circlemates, 
Gestalt allows you to intensify this bond, giving your circle the equivalent of 
a temporary hive mind. While this power is in effect, you do not actually 
become one, though you share thoughts and your will is strengthened by those 
of your comrades. 
To activate Gestalt, every member of your circle must spend a Blood Trait. 
A member who does not possess Gestalt himself must also succeed in a Static 
Mental Challenge against five Traits to join the link. If one member is unable 
or unwilling to spend the Blood Trait, the power does not take effect, though 
individuals who fail the Mental Challenge do not destroy the entire link, just 
their own connection to it. Gestalt lasts for the rest of the scene, even if you or 
another circle member are killed or rendered unconscious. 
While this power is ineffect, you enjoy several benefits. First and foremost, 
you are all in telepathic communication, requiring no effort and no Trait 
expenditure. Second, any circle member may sacrifice his action for the next 
turn in order to expend an Ability Trait, “giving” it to any other circle member 
who can use it for a retest on a challenge taking place during the current turn. 
Third, any attempt to use any mind-altering Discipline on any circle member 
is resisted by the highest number of the appropriate Trait that any individual 
in the circle possesses, though the individual target must still bid his own Traits 
to resist. For example, if Leon has three Mental Traits and is the target of a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Dominate attempt, he must bid one of his own Mental Traits, but ties and 
overbids resolve against the 14 Mental Traits that Leon’s circlemate Rick has. 
Walk of Caine 
Drawing on your circle’s link at both the sanguine and the spiritual levels, 
you may now increase the potency of your own vitae at the expense of a 
circlemate. Most circles use this power when only one member is embattled, 
donating the strength of their blood to him in order to allow him to perform 
fearsome physical feats or to heal massive wounds in a matter of moments. 
To borrow a Generation Background Trait from a willing circlemate, make 
a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of five Traits. If your target is 
unwilling to give up this Trait, this power fails. If he is willing but does not 
know Walk of Caine himself, he must succeed in the same challenge. Walk of 
Caine lasts for the scene. 
You may only borrow one Generation Trait from any one member of your 
circle, and you may not reduce your own generation past fourth. If you borrow 
a generation from a 13th-generation circlemate, he gains the Flaw: Fourteenth 
Generation until the power wears off. You may not borrow a generation from 
a circlemate who is already 14th generation. Any effects of your circle’s blood 
that last past the end of the scene, including Embraces you perform or diablerie 
that you commit or that is committed upon you, use your normal generation 
rather than your altered one. For example, if you are usually 10th generation 
but reduce your generation to seventh and Embrace a childe, she will be 1 1 th 
generation, not eighth. 
ADVANCED 
SAN~UINUS 
Coagulated Entity 
Stepping beyond mere sharing of blood, flesh and minds, you and your 
circlemates may now combine your very forms into one monstrous conglom- 
eration of writhing muscle and jagged bone. While this makes you a likely 
target for any enemy attacks, you more than likely have the combined strength 
to shrug off most assaults as you shamble over any opposition. This power 
should be overseen by a Narrator as its effects on the surrounding scenery and 
mortals are rather severe. It is recommended that you work out a Coagulated 
Entity’s Traits before play begins. 
Every member of the circle who wishes to join the Coagulated Entity must 
be in physical contact with one another and spend three Blood Traits, taking 
no other action for three turns, though only one participating member must 
know this power in order to initiate the merge. At the end of the third turn, 
the unholy melding is complete. The component character with the lowest 
generation controls the entity’s actions, though its actual generation is equal 
to that of the highest-generation member. 
A Coagulated Entity enjoys the combined Physical Traits and Mental 
Traits of all its members. However, it gains a number of Clumsy Negative 
Physical Traits and Witless Negative Mental Traits each equal to half its total 
number of component characters, rounded up. Normal Social Traits are 
submerged, replaced by a number of Fearsome Social Traits equal to three times 
the number of members. The entity’s Blood Pool holds 10 Blood Traits per 
member, though per turn expenditure is determined by the entity’s generation. 
Its Disciplines are the highest level of any given Discipline that any circle 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


member has attained, so if one member has Advanced Potence, a second has 
Advanced Fortitude and a third has Advanced Auspex, the Coagulated Entity 
has Advanced Auspex, Fortitude and Potence. 
A Coagulated Entity may not be staked as it has too many hearts in 
inaccessible places. It has a normal range of health levels, plus two additional 
Bruised health levels per component vampire past the first. This power’s effects 
last until the end of the scene or until the entity is destroyed. 
THAUMATURC~Y 
Sabbat vampires have never practiced Thaumaturgy widely. The Tremere 
antitribu were hardly numerous, even at the height of their power, and their 
recent disappearance nearly destroyed the sect’s magical capabilities. The sect 
no longer has an organized group willing to provide rituals, instruction, 
research or support. 
This is not to say that the Sabbat has lost all thaumaturgical knowledge 
- 
far from it. Many pack priests and Black Hand members practice the arts of 
blood magic for their general value. Many vampires who follow the Paths of 
Caine and Death and the Soul see Thaumaturgy as one more method of 
furthering their respective goals and studies. Several bloodlines, most notably 
the Tzimisce kolduns and the Serpents of the Light, have made attempts to 
organize and combine their knowledge, though no one group has yet matched 
the degree of proficiency that the Tremere antitribu displayed. 
The following material is a collection of Sabbat-specific Thaumaturgy. 
While some outside of the sect will undoubtedly have learned or stolen these 
practices, such instances are more exceptions than rules. Thus, Storytellers 
should feel perfectly within their rights to deny any non-Sabbat character access 
to these paths and rituals. Most are products of Tremere antidm research that 
took place after the bloodline split from its parent clan, though some are 
adaptations of arts that predate the Sabbat’s inception. Camarilla Tremere are 
familiar with the existence, capabilities and appearances of most of the following 
techniques (Static Mental Challenge to recognize a “competing brand” of 
Thaumaturgy as not from the character’s own sect, difficulty of seven Traits, must 
have Basic Thaumaturgy to recognize paths and a level of ThaumatuTgy equal to 
that of a ritual to recognize it). Anyone who is foolish enough to display such 
powers in Camarilla circles comes under a great deal of unpleasant scrutiny. 
Mechanically, these paths and rituals work in the same manner as “com- 
mon” Thaumaturgy and use the basic rules on page 176 of Laws of the Night. 
THF PATH 
OE MARS 
Unlike the Camarilla Tremere, the Tremere antitribu were never at liberty 
to pursue pure research in blood magic - 
all of their work was applied toward 
their sect’s goals. This path, one of the first developed after the Sabbat’s 
formation, is a directly martial one, which sets it apart from many utilitarian 
paths that happen to have martial applications. It is also a highly personal path 
as its user focuses the effects internally rather than externally, and no two 
students of the Path of Mars approach it with exactly the same attitude. 
Practitioners of this path tend to be adept at close combat and often comple- 
ment it with knowledge of H a d  ofDestruction (Laws of the Night, p. 183). 
Path of Mars uses the Occult Ability for retests. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BASIC PATH 
OP MARS 
War Cry 
The first technique you learn is that of focusing your will to fight. This 
enhances your courage and renders you less susceptible to mind-altering 
effects. However, this artificial strengthening of your will locks your emotions 
away from you while it is in effect, rendering you cold and distant. You activate 
this power with some symbolic gesture or outcry, be it howling a Rebel yell, 
murmuring a quickmeditative chant, donning astripe ofwar paint or inflicting 
superficial cuts on your face and chest. 
For the duration of the scene, your Courage is increased by one Trait, and 
you automatically win all ties on Mental Challenges when resisting hostile 
Discipline effects. However, you are too focused on fighting - 
and winning 
-to consider others’ feelings, and you gain the Negative Social Trait Tactless 
while under War Cry’s influence. 
Strike True 
Once you have learned to harden your will and subvert all weakness, you 
begin to gain the unity of purpose necessary to ignore all obstacles. This 
technique allows you a momentary flash of clarity as you strike an opponent, 
using your magic to enhance your perceptions and reflexes. Some thaumaturges 
invoke this power with a martial artist’s kiai or a fencer’s dramatic flourish, 
though others attack with perfect silence and no wasted motion. 
Invoke this power when making a close combat (bare hands or a melee 
weapon) attack before you make the challenge. You gain one free retest on this 
attack alone. You may not make any other attacks this turn, though you can 
use multiple actions normally (to move or to ready a weapon, for instance). 
INTERMEDIATE 
PATH 
OE MARS 
Wind Dance 
The clarity of vision that you learned to apply to your own attacks with 
Strike True can now be used to discern the strikes that others make against you. 
Though this grants you no supernatural knowledge of attacks that you are not 
aware of, you are much more able to evade those that you can see coming. If 
you have a “signature” invocation that you use to activate War C v ,  you may 
well have a corresponding one for this power as well. 
Once you have activated Wind Dance, you gain two extra Dodge Ability 
Traits for the duration of the scene (which may exceed your generation limits 
on Ability Traits in any one Ability). You may only activate Wind Dance once 
per scene and these Traits disappear if you do not spend them by the end of that 
scene -you 
may not “stack” multiple applications of Wind Dance. 
Fearless Heart 
This technique reaches beyond mere tricks of perception to subtly 
enhance your physical form. Though not as potent as the combat transforma- 
tions of Disciplines such as Vicissitude, the advantage of Fearless Heart is that 
its application is largely undetectable. As with WindDance, many thaumaturges 
who employ this power summon it with more complex variations of the 
invocations they use for War Cry. 
Once you have activated Fearless Heart, you gain the Physical Traits 
Stalwart, Quick and Enduring for the duration of the scene. You may not “stack” 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


multiple applications of Fearless Heart, but you may employ it in conjunction 
with Wind Dance or other Discipline powers that give you additional Traits. 
ADVANCED 
PATH 
OP MARS 
Comrades at Arms 
Rather than bestowing more complex boons, the pinnacle of the Path of 
Mars allows you to share your benedictions with your packmates. You may 
bestow the effects of War Cry, Wind Dance or Fearless Heart upon any willing 
recipient by touching her and spending the usual Blood Trait to activate the 
power in question. You may give any combination of these effects to any 
number of recipients as long as you spend one action and one Blood Trait for 
each power and each character. Roleplay this appropriately, especially if 
your unique “style” for this path‘s lesser powers involves war paint or 
superficial injuries. All limitations for self-application of these powers also 
apply when applying them to others (e.g. no multiple Wind Dance applica- 
tions on the same subject). 
THE PATH 
OE THE EATHER’S VEN~EANCE 
This path originated with the first Noddist Tremere antitribu. According to 
their claims, it is a blood magic method of directly manipulating the curse that 
God placed upon Caine. However, most non-Noddist scholars of the Path of the 
Father’s Vengeance state that it is simply one more application of blood magic, 
albeit with trappings that certainly make it look like a primal tie to the vampiric 
condition and that the path‘s creators were probably inflating their own 
importance. This path‘sstudy is a hot topic ofdebate among Sabbat thaumaturges, 
as some Noddists, Bahari and Unifiers believe that claiming mastery over Caine’s 
curse is dangerously close to heresy - 
or an aspiration to apotheosis. 
Most Sabbat thaumaturges teach Path of the Father’s Vengeance with a 
verbal component. Invocation of any power requires the thaumaturge to speak 
the portion of the Curse (or a related passage from T h  Book of Nod) that she 
is applying. There is no actual innate power in the words (though some 
thaumaturges claim otherwise); rather, they serve as a mnemonic focus to 
steady the caster’s concentration. All powers from this path have a maximum 
range of the distance at which the caster’s voice is audible without mechanical 
assistance. Apply common sense in determining this range - 
don’t penalize 
the character if the player has laryngitis. 
These powers only affect Cainites. They have no effect on Cathayans, 
mortals, ghouls, Lupines or any other beings. Path ofthe Father’s Vengeance uses 
the Occult Ability for retests, though it may use the specialized Ability of 
Vampire Lore if the Storyteller so desires. 
BASIC EATHER’S VFN~EANCF 
Zillah’s Litany 
Your blood, potent as it is now, will bond those who drink it, as you did, once a 
night fur three nights. You will be the master. They will be your thrall, as youare mine. 
According to commonly accepted Cainite prehistory, Zillah was Caine’s 
wife. She was the first vampire besides Caine to undergo the blood bond as Caine 
used the harsh lesson that the Crone taught him to capture Zillah‘s eternal love. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The passages from The Book of Nod that deal with this incident serve as a 
mnemonic device to focus your concentration, allowing you hazy impressions of 
any blood bonds or Vinculi to which your target might be subject. 
To apply Zillah’s Litany, you must speak the passages in question to your 
target. Make a SimpleTest for eachvampire to whom your subject is connected 
by blood bond or Vinculum. On a tie, you gain a hazy impression of the 
individual’s face. If you win, you gain a face and the name by which the subject 
knows that individual, as well as a hazy psychic impression. A Narrator will 
most likely have to arbitrate this power’s effects as your subject may not be 
aware of all her Vinculi. 
The Crone’s Pride 
AndCainecoulddonothingbutstareintoherancienteyes,desireherleathery skin. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Crone is the mythic-historic figure who taught Caine the power of 
the blood bond by subjecting him to it. According to The BookofNod, she was 
a creature of loathsome visage, horrifying to gaze upon and undesirable by even 
the coarsest standards. To apply a similar appearance to your target, you must 
recite a description of the Crone to her and defeat her in a Mental Challenge. 
If you win, she receives the Nosferatu clan disadvantage for the rest of the 
night, including the Negative Social Traits Repugnant x 3. She may not bid the 
Social Traits that are banned for Nosferatu (Alluring, Gorgeous or Seductive), 
nor do they count toward her total Social Traits for ties and overbids. 
INTCRMFDIATC EATHER’S VFNgEANCF 
Feast of Ashes 
You will drinkonly blood. You willeat only ashes. You will bealways as you were 
at death. 
With this power, you may invoke the final curse that God laid upon Caine, 
twisting your subject’s hunger so that blood no longer sustains him. For the 
duration of this power, he gains no sustenance from vitae, but instead must 
consume ash for nourishment. 
Make a Mental Challenge against your target. If you win, expend a 
number of Mental Traits. This is the number of nights during which he gains 
no Blood Traits from drinking blood. Instead, for every handful of ash he 
consumes, he gains one Ashen Blood Trait, which he may only expend to heal 
non-aggravated damage or to satisfy his normal nightly sustenance require- 
ment. This may be any sort of ash: cigarette butts, the leavings of a campfire 
or even the remains of a vampire who has met Final Death. 
Uriel’s Disfavor 
Then, for as long as you walk this earth, you and your children will fear the 
dawn, and the sun’s rays will seek to burn you like fire where ever you hide always. 
Purists argue that this power’s proper name should be “Raphael’s Disfa- 
vor,” as it was that angel, not Uriel, who cursed Caine in such a fashion. 
Nevertheless, the current appellation remains. A victim of this power is 
afflicted with a vastly heightened sensitivity to any sort of light, even artificial 
sources that are normally harmless to most Cainites. 
Make a Mental Challenge against your target. If you win, she gains Uriel’s 
Disfavor for the rest of the scene. You may spend a Willpower Trait after 
winning the challenge to extend this to the rest of the night. While under the 
effect of this power, the subject gains the Negative Mental Trait Oblivious 
when in the presence of any light source brighter than a single candle. Worse 
yet, she sustains one level of aggravated damage for every turn that she is 
directly exposed to any bright light, such as a halogen flashlight, automobile 
high beams or nightclub strobes (Storyteller’s discretion; a good rule of thumb 
is any light that would make you go “ouch!” if you looked directly into it from 
three yards or less). 
ADVANCED 
EATHER’S VEN~EANCE 
Valediction 
Seek not the blood of thine own Elder. Seek not the blood of thy Sire’s Sire. Seek 
not the blood that made thee Kin. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Though many Sabbat consider diablerie a sacrament or a duty, such 
behavior is in direct opposition to one of the few dictates that Caine 
supposedly laid down. The mere threat of Valediction is enough to give pause 
to those who are familiar with it. By invoking Caine’s law against diablerie, you 
can strip all the benefits of that act from your victim. 
You must spend three turns to speak the entire invocation of this power. 
On the third turn, make a Mental Challenge against your victim. If you 
succeed, spend any number of Willpower Traits. For that many nights, the 
subject returns to the generation she possessed at the time of her Embrace. She 
immediately loses access to all Traits that are in excess of her generation 
maximum (Storyteller’s discretion as to which specific Traits the victim loses 
in each category). Her Blood Pool likewise shrinks; if she has more Blood Traits 
in her system than she can currently hold, she is unable to initiate any actions 
until she has finished vomiting up the excess blood at the rate of one Blood 
Trait per turn. If this shift in generation changes her access to high-level 
Disciplines, she is temporarily stripped of those powers. 
THAUMATUR~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Most Sabbat-taught rituals, whether sect-specific or commonly known, 
are couched in some sort of pseudo-religious ceremony. Many require a certain 
amount of paraphernalia and elaborate incantations. Physical components 
also tend to be unsettling to mortal sensibilities; body parts of humans or 
animals are common, as are rare or precious substances and body fluids. 
These rituals use the same systems as those in Laws of the Night (p. 185). 
Blood Rush 
With this ritual, you may experience all of the pleasure of feeding with 
none of the business of the hunt. This is particularly useful in staving off hunger 
pangs or preparing to deal with large quantities of spilt blood. While affected 
by Blood Rush, you gain one free retest to avoid frenzying over hunger or the 
smell or sight of blood. Blood Rush uses the fangs of a predatory animal as a focus, 
and you must carry these for the ritual to work. It lasts until the next sunset. 
Dominoe of Life 
Dominoe of Life allows you to assume one physical characteristic of 
mortality: normal human temperature, an appetite for solid food, automatic 
respiration or a pulse and a normal flesh tone. You may only replicate one of 
these features per casting, though you may “stack” them multiple times. 
Dominoe ofLife requires you to carry a small vial of mortal blood on your person 
(at least 1/4 of a Blood Trait). It lasts until one hour after dawn. 
BASIC THAUMATURC~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Eyes of the Night Hawk 
Through this ritual, you may transfer your perceptions into the body of a 
predatory bird. Until dawn breaks or you end the ritual, you see with the 
raptor’s eyes rather than your own. You may exert no influence over the bird 
other than controlling its flight and its gaze-commanding 
it to attack a target 
or pickup an object is beyond your grasp (though it will follow its own instincts 
if it sees food or a threat). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Except for the behavioral restrictions mentioned above and the means of 
ending the ritual, the effects of Eyes of the Night Hawk simulate those of 
Subsume the Spirit (Laws of the Night, p. 135). Your raptor has the Physical 
Traits Energetic, Quick x 2 and Resilient. You may only use Auspex through it. 
To end the ritual, you must touch the bird. You must also put out its eyes 
within one minute of ending the ritual or suffer blindness for three nights (note 
that such an act may cause a crisis of ethics, depending on your particular 
Morality). Some enterprising thaumaturges ghoul their raptors in order to 
produce reusable subjects who can regenerate their eyes over time. If you do not 
voluntarily end Eyes of the Night Hawk, it expires at sunrise and you face the 
normal consequences of not blinding your avian surveillance device. 
Illuminate Trail of the Prey 
By invoking the spirits of air and earth, you may command them to reveal 
the trail of an individual who you now pursue. Whether she is traveling on foot, 
on a mount or in a vehicle, your eyes perceive the path she took as a series of 
faintly glowing silver footprints. Your quarry is unaware that you are tracking her 
in such a manner unless she has some magical warning mechanism. Her trail will 
end at the first body of water through which she passes (though passing Over it 
has no effect). The ritual's effects only last as long as you are directly on the trail 
-if 
you stop tracking to feed, sleep or make a phone call, the footprints fade. 
To enact this ritual, you must have astarting point from which to work and 
you must know your target's true face. While reciting your invocation of the 
appropriate spirits, you must burn a six-foot length of white satin ribbon 
wrapped around a bone from the leg of a predatory mammal. When the ribbon 
is reduced to ash, the trail appears before you. This is not a foolproof method 
of tracking as the spirits this ritual commands are weak and capricious, but it 
does give you three free retests on attempts to track your quarry (most often 
using the Investigation or Survival Abilities). 
Machine Blitz 
For the most part, Thaumaturgy is hardly technological in nature, but this 
ritual stands as one of the rare exceptions to that rule. Through Machine Blitz, 
you may increase the level of chaos within a mechanical device to the point 
that it breaks down under the weight of its own complexity. This ritual can be 
used to affect any single machine more complex than a rope-and-pulley, 
including both mechanical and electronic devices. 
To inflict Machine Blitz, spend one minute tracing a series of incorrect 
mathematical equations on the surface of the target device. For this, you must 
use a pencil-sized wand made of a bone from a mortal who was killed in a 
mechanical accident. If you successfully cast the ritual, the machine instantly 
stops working through what appears to be a normal system failure. A skilled 
repairman (a number of Repair or appropriate Crafts Ability Traits equal to 
your number of Occult Ability Traits) can restore the target to function with 
a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of your Mental Traits. 
Recure of the Homeland 
This ritual, which many Sabbat believe to be a Tzimisce innovation, 
allows you to create a muddy paste which can assist you in healing even the 
most devastating wounds. To prepare one dose, mix one handful of earth from 
the area of your mortal birth with two of your own Blood Traits. The resulting 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


paste (assuming you succeed in casting the ritual) instantly heals one level of 
aggravated damage when you smear it on the wound (or consume it, in the case 
of internal injuries). You may make any amount of this paste, as long as you 
have sufficient supplies of earth and blood, but you may only use it to heal one 
Health Level per night. Once you cast the ritual, the blood you use becomes 
part of the curative substance and is no longer considered blood for game 
purposes. Only you may benefit from the properties of this paste- to any other 
character, it is simply a glob of reddish mud. 
Widow’s Spite 
By constructing a small ceremonial doll, you may inflict a distracting itch 
or ache on a target. This ritual holds little actual danger for its subject. Many 
Sabbat use it as a practical joke or a message of contempt, though some intrepid 
thaumaturges utilize Widow’s Spite to probe a potential victim’s defenses in 
preparation for a more devastating magical attack. 
You must construct the doll yourself, and it must bear at least a vague 
resemblance to your target (no test required, but roleplaying this construction 
is encouraged). When you cast the ritual, the doll oozes a few drops of blood 
from the location that you want to afflict with the distracting sensation. If the 
ritual succeeds, the target receives the Negative Mental Trait Witless for the 
rest of the night. You may re-use the doll if you so desire, though it falls apart 
after the second time you fail in casting the ritual. 
INTERMEDIATE 
THAUMATUR~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Clinging of the Insect 
Through this ritual, you may imbue yourself with a mystical property of 
adhesion that mimics an insect’s ability to climb vertical surfaces. Spend five 
minutes performing stretching exercises, then place a live spider under your 
tongue. You may then move on walls and ceilings at half your normal walking 
speed. This lasts for the rest of the scene or until the spider dies or leaves its 
place under your tongue. While keeping a live spider pinned under your 
tongue, you are down three Traits on any Social Challenge that requires you 
to speak well. Naturally, you should simulate the spider through Narrator 
notification or candy rather than using a real one. 
Firewalker 
Though no vampire in his right mind ever plans to come in contact with 
open flame, this ritual allows you to prepare yourself for situations where such 
an event might occur. To enact Firewalker, cut off one of your big toes (which 
hurts like hell and inflicts one level of lethal damage) and bum it over a wood 
fire, then smear the resulting ashes on the soles of your feet and the palms of 
your hands. For the next hour, make a Simple Test for each level of aggravated 
damage you take from fire. If you win or tie, that level of damage becomes lethal 
damage. You may cast this ritual on another vampire, in which case you must 
sacrifice one of your beneficiary’s toes. Multiple subjects’ toes may be sacrificed 
simultaneously in the same group ritual, up to a maximum number of subjects 
equal to your number of permanent Mental Traits. A character who is missing 
a big toe gains the Negative Physical Trait Clumsy due to the effect this loss has 
on his balance. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mirror of Second Sight 
Unlike most rituals, whose effects are short-lived, Mirror of Second Sight 
allows you to create a permanently enchanted item. You may imbue any 
circular mirror between four and 18 inches in diameter with the property of 
reflecting an individual’s supernatural nature, if any, superimposed over her 
mundane image. To do this, you must etch the back of the mirror with a series 
of mystic sigils and bathe it in two of your own Blood Traits. 
Once you successfully enchant the mirror, its reflections reveal all 
supernatural creatures for what they are. Vampires appear as skeletal husks of 
their physical selves, werewolves are shown simultaneously as men and beasts, 
ghosts are visible as misty outlines, changelings are masked with their faerie 
faces and mages bear luminescent auras. Mortals still look like mortals, 
however; this mirror will not detect a ghoul or a human who practices lesser 
sorcerous arts. Additionally, this mirror only reveals the “true forms” of 
individuals who are visible to the unaided eye - 
it does nothing to pierce 
Obfuscate or any other supernatural means of concealment save for showing 
images of ghosts who are normally invisible in the physical world. 
ADVANCED 
THAUMATURC~ICAL 
RITUALS 
Paper Flesh 
This fearsome ritual allows you to strip avampire of most of his supernatu- 
ral resilience, leaving him as defenseless as an ordinary mortal. However, you 
must know his mortal birth name, which is much harder to learn of paranoid 
(or senile) elders than it is of innocent neonates. 
Toenact Pupr Fksh, sketch yourtarget’sface onasheetofunblemished white 
paper, using one Blood Trait of your own blood for ink (Static Physical Challenge 
against a difficulty of the subject’s Social Traits, retest with an appropriate Crufts 
Ability). Then write his birth name across the image’s forehead in black ink and 
cut the image’s throat witha silver dagger. For the rest of the night, the subject loses 
any Fortitude he may have had except for Endurance, as well as all of the following 
Physical Traits: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged and Tirekss. 
If your target is a vampire who is of seventh generation or greater, he may 
retain one additional level of Fortitude and two of the affected Physical Traits 
for every generation he is above eighth. For instance, a sixth-generation target 
would retain both Basic Fortitude powers, the first Intermediate Fortitude power 
and four of the affected Physical Traits (assuming he had these powers and 
Traits to begin with). 
VALFRFN 
The Salubri untitriibu claim that Vuleren is one of their former clan’s oldest 
secrets, a Discipline of mystic martial prowess that the non-Sabbat Salubri 
perverted into a weakling’s healing tool. Saulot, they claim, was a holy warrior, 
and they remain true to his heritage by practicing Valeren. 
While this Discipline has some features in common with Obeah, the 
Discipline of the Salubri, it is its own distinct series of lessons, and its practitio- 
ners tend to regard it as one of their foremost weapons for their sacred battles. 
Like Obeah, Vuleren does have a physical manifestation in the form of a third eye, 
which appears on any Vuleren practitioner’s forehead when he learns the first 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Intermediate level of the Discipline. This eye’s exact purpose is unclear. Some 
believe it is a mark of favor or disfavor from various infernal or divine powers, 
while others (including most of the Salubri antihibu) say it gives Vakren’s 
practitioners sight beyond sight. Vakren uses the Awareness Ability for retests. 
BASIC VALEREN 
Sense Vitality 
This power functions exactly as the Obeah power of the same name (Laws 
Anesthetic Touch 
This power functions exactly as the Obeah power of the same name (Laws 
of the Night, p. 158). 
of the Night, p. 159). 
INTERMEDIATE 
VALEREN 
Burning Touch 
In a grim parody of the legends of saints’ healing touches, you may lay 
hands on an individual to inflict excruciating pain. This power does no actual 
damage, but the subject feels as if he is being burned, flayed, impaled, 
eviscerated, dissolved or experiencing whatever other sensation you care to 
inflict. Some Salubri antihibu use Burning Touch as an interrogation tool while 
others simply apply it out of sadism. When you apply Burning Touch, your third 
eye glows with a dim, flickering red-orange light. 
To apply Burning Touch, simply touch your victim and expend a Blood 
Trait. If you apply this power in combat, your victim suffers the penalties for 
being at the Wounded state of health for the rest of the turn. If he is already 
Wounded, he must defeat you in a Mental Challenge or suffer the effects of 
being Incapacitated for the rest of the turn. 
If you use Burning Touch as an interrogation tool, you or your fellow 
interrogators gain one free retest on the next interrogation- or torture-related 
challenge you make against that individual. Recreational applications of this 
power are best left to roleplaying. 
Ending the Watch 
This power allows you to visit euthanasia upon a willing mortal. By simply 
laying your hand over your subject’s heart, you may release her from the trials 
and turmoil of earthly existence. 
To End the Watch, touch your victim and spend a Willpower Trait. The 
mortal must actively want to die; if she has any doubts about this desire, the 
power fails to work. However, if death is truly what she yearns for, her soul 
instantly flees her body. A mortal killed with this power may not be Embraced, 
become a wraith after death or have any form of Necromancy work on her soul 
or body. Medical or mystic examination will reveal the cause of her death to 
be sudden heart failure. Ending the Watch will only kill an ordinary mortal with 
no supernatural qualities - 
it has no effect on werewolves, changelings, 
wizards, ghosts, ghouls, mummies or any other supernatural being. 
ADVANCED 
VALEREN 
Vengeance of Samiel 
By invoking the legacy of your line’s distant progenitor, the legendary holy 
warrior Samiel, you may strike with the devastating precision that he devel- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


oped over centuries of battle. Vengeance of Samiel is an exhausting power to 
invoke, but its effects are unparalleled. Your third eye flares wide open when 
you invoke this power, emitting a hellish red glare, and you may close your 
normal eyes with no penalty to this attack. 
You may only use Vengeance of Samiel when you are making an attack with 
your bare hands or a melee weapon and it is your only action for the turn. Spend 
three Blood Traits to activate this power. You may not use Vengeance of Samiel 
to augment an attack you make with another Discipline (such as combat 
Bonecrafting), though you may still use it with another attack-enhancing 
Discipline power that does not generate the attack in and of itself (such as Feral 
Claws or Prowess). Add your Mental Traits to your Physical Traits for the attack 
challenge, including bidding, tie resolution and overbidding. Your opponent 
may not evade this attack by declaring a retest with the Dodge Ability. If the 
attack succeeds, it inflicts an additional two health levels of the appropriate type 
of damage. If you use Vengeance ofSamid in an attempt to stake an opponent, you 
must win or tie only one Simple Test after the successful attack, as opposed to 
the two that staking usually requires (Laws of the Night, p. 204). 
SUPERIOR 
VALEREN 
Elder Valeren: Blissful Agony 
You may visit agony on an enemy that makes the torture of BurningTouchpale 
in comparison. This searing pain persists even after you remove your hand, and it 
is intense enough to kill weak-willed mortals and drive Cainites into frenzy. 
To inflict Blissful Agony on your victim, touch him, spend a Blood Trait 
and defeat him in a Mental Challenge. For the rest of the scene, your victim 
is considered to be Wounded for purposes of wound penalties. If his condition 
actually reaches Wounded, he is considered Incapacitated. 
If you wish, you may inflict lethal damage on an opponent, though you 
must maintain contact and spend one Blood Trait per health level to exercise 
this option. A Cainite may make one Simple Test per health level you inflict 
in this fashion; if she wins, she negates the damage. This damage heals 
normally for mortals, but vanishes at the next sunset for avampire. If you inflict 
more health levels on a vampire than she has Willpower Traits, she must resist 
Rotschreck against a difficulty of your Mental Traits. 
SUPERIOR 
VICISSITUDE 
Elder Vicissitude: Chiropteran Marauder 
Although this form bears vague resemblance to the more familiar zulo or 
H m ' d F m  (Laws of the Night, p. 189), it is evenmore capable and terrifying. 
Chiropteran Marauder allows you to assume the form of a horrid melding of 
human and bat forms. Your face gnarls into a hideous grimace while your arms 
shift into leathery wings bearing talons. 
To take on this visage, spend three Blood Traits. You gain all the benefits 
of Horrid F m ,  as well as the ability to fly at speeds of up to 25 mph (Celerity 
does not increase this). You can carry aloft a maximum weight equal to that of 
your own body in this altered form, though your flight is rather awkward if you 
do so. You also possess bony claws at the end of your wings that have the same 
effect as Feral Claeos (Laws of the Night, p. 169). You are down two Trait on 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


all perception-related challenges that deal with hearing but gain one bonus 
Trait on any vision-based challenges that deal with wits or perception. This 
form remains in effect for the scene once you invoke it. 
Elder Vicissitude: Blood of Acid 
This power’s effects are exactly what its name suggests. You have perma- 
nently converted your vitae into a powerful organic acid. While this limits your 
potential applications of it, it also serves as a final line of defense against 
diablerie, as well as posing a formidable hazard to anyone who would engage 
you in close combat. 
Each Blood Trait of yours that comes in contact with something other 
than you inflicts two levels of aggravated damage to that item or individual. 
Anyone who actually ingests your vitae receives four levels of aggravated 
damage per Blood Trait she drinks. This makes the creation of progeny or 
ghouls rather difficult and unpleasant, though not completely impossible. 
Every time a penetrating attack injures you in close combat (stake, claws, 
sword, or any gunshot at five feet or less), make a Simple Test. If you win, you 
lose one BloodTrait of your vitae as it sprays toward your attacker. She, in turn, 
must make a Static Physical Challenge against a difficulty of five Traits. If she 
loses, she takes one level of aggravated damage (damage is lessened due to the 
dispersed spray). 
This acid also affects any weapon or object that enters your body. Make 
a Simple Test every time this happens. A wooden object will be corroded to 
uselessness within five minutes if you win or tie while a metal or plastic item 
suffers the same fate on a win. Individuals who stake you are in for an 
unpleasant surprise as the concentration of vitae in your heart dissolves the 
stake in five turns (15 seconds). 
If you assume Bloodform (Laws of the Night, p. 189), your blood only 
dissolves what you wish it to dissolve. Use this effect carefully as you may find 
yourself reacting away to nothingness if you decide to dissolve your way 
through the floor. 
Master Vicissitude: Cocoon 
Many ancient Tzimisce use Cocoon to sleep away the ages in safety and 
comfort. This power allows you to extrude an opaque cocoon from various 
bodily fluids, spinning it around yourself like the chrysalis of a vampiric 
butterfly. The cocoon solidifies within a few minutes and vaguely resembles a 
tough, fibrous coffin. 
To spin your Cocoon, spend three Blood Traits and 10 minutes. It lasts as 
long as you wish, and you may emerge from it at no cost or effort. The cocoon 
blocks sunlight, and is somewhat flame-retardant, negating the first two health 
levels of damage per turn that you would otherwise sustain from fire. Any 
attacker making a physical strike against you must first defeat the cocoon’s 
strength in a Static Physical Challenge against a difficulty of twice your 
number of Physical Traits. While within your Cocoon, you may still use mental 
Disciplines so long as you can meet the requirements (eye contact is right out 
under most circumstances). 
Ascendant Vicissitude: Breath of the Dragon 
Your mastery of your own flesh and blood is such that you can vomit forth 
your vitae even as you convert it to a highly combustible fluid that ignites in a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


hellish flame as it leaves your mouth. You may purse your lips to direct this fire 
against one target or open your mouth wide to spray flaming droplets over an 
area. You are immune to this flame though not to secondary fires that it starts. 
To attack a single target, spend a Blood Trait and defeat him in a Physical 
Challenge. If you win, he sustains three levels of aggravated damage and bursts 
into flame. In the next turn, he suffers an additional two levels of aggravated 
damage, and one more each subsequent turn until he extinguishes the flame or 
perishes. Youmay strikeanindividualat amaximumrangeof 100 feet (30steps). 
If you wish to incinerate an area, spend five Blood Traits. You may center 
the blast on any point in your line of sight that is within 100 feet (30 steps) of 
you. The radius of effect is 20 feet. Everyone within that area receives two levels 
of aggravated damage. All flammable objects within the area are ignited. Any 
victims must succeed in a Static Physical Challenge against a difficulty of five 
Traits to avoid being set afire as well; this does one additional aggravated health 
level per turn, as does remaining within the burning area on subsequent turns. 
Methuselah Vicissitude: Earth’s Vast Haven 
This power hails from the time when the childer of Tzimisce were the 
undisputed masters of Eastern Europe, calling upon the line’s strange bond to 
the earth of their ancestral homeland. It allows you to become one with your 
very domain, spreading your vitae, physical form and consciousness through- 
out all that you survey. You are virtually invulnerable in this form - 
nothing 
short of an explosion powerful enough to leave a mile-wide crater can harm you 
in any meaningful manner, and sunlight on your soil does nothing but 
stimulate plant growth. 
To enter Earth’s Vast Haven, spend six Blood Traits. You sink into the 
ground in a manner that is visually similar to that of EurthMeld. However, your 
form is spread throughout the ground in an approximate three-mile radius to 
a depth of six feet. While in Earth’s Vast Haven, you require no blood for 
sustenance. You may exercise your mental Disciplines on anyone within your 
area of dispersion, as long as you may maintain the other requirements (eye 
contact is impossible, but anyone who is standing on bare earth within your 
area is assumed to be in physical contact with you). You may also initiate direct 
mental contact with anyone within this area at any time, using the rules for 
Telepathy (Laws of the Night, p. 138). You theoretically have complete 
awareness of all that transpires within your area of existence, though in 
practice your mind tends to wander when inhabiting such a vast space. If you 
decide to emerge from Earth’s Vast Haven, you may re-form your normal body 
at any point within the power’s area of effect. 
If nuclear weapons are used on the area in which you reside (the only 
practical means of killing you available to modem technology), you suffer one 
to three levels of aggravated damage per explosion. You may not heal this 
damage until you leave Earth’s Vast Haven. The explosions must be on or under 
the ground in order to harm you - 
even the most powerful air burst won’t 
displace enough earth to do more than annoy you. Obviously, the effects of 
nuclear weapons are difficult enough to simulate in a live-action setting that 
they should remain plot devices. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


RITAF 
The Sabbat has another side, one that contrasts the bloodthirsty faGade 
that the average Cainite of any stripe sees - 
that of its spirituality. The ritae, 
or rites, remind believers of their common goals, reward them for success and 
punish them for failure. Regular performance of the ritae keeps pack members 
in harmony (or something like it) and focused on their goals. 
There’s no sect-wide standard for formality. Storytellers should decide on 
the tone they want for their chronicles and flesh out the ritae accordingly. If 
you want to go for the grand ceremonial feel, appropriate props and music can 
make a big difference. Even a couple of candlesticks, an altar cloth and a tape 
of Gregorian chants go a long way toward evoking the sense of a chapel 
dedicated to dark deeds. 
Sabbat spirituality - 
and no, that’s not a contradiction in terms - 
isn’t 
tied to one single culture. Even the stodgiest cardinals reluctantly admit, the 
truths the Sabbat proclaims don’t require that members practice a medieval 
Black Mass. A Sabbat ceremony might look like a gang hanging out, a 
corporate board meeting or a blood-cult pagan gathering. Beneath it all there’s 
the same set of doctrines. As long as orthodoxy prevails in action, most bishops 
don’t fuss too loudly about how packs celebrate. 
Pomp, circumstance and abused liturgical Latin can convey a mystic 
sense, but there’s a risk of turning into gratuitous blasphemy. Only a monster 
would trample someone’s real religious beliefs for the sake of a game. Keep the 
game and life separate, and watch for danger signs that someone is taking his 
personal intolerances out of one arena and into another. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


PEREORMING 
THE RITES 
If you want priestly competence and power to matter in your chronicle, use 
these optional rules. If you’d rather keep it simple, just use the standard rules 
for tests associated with each rite. Again, these rules are strictly optional. 
When a priest embarks on a rite, he makes a Social Challenge against a 
number of Traits equal to the number of participants. When a bishop or higher- 
ranked priest performs a rite with lower-ranked assistants, each assistant adds 
one Trait to the lead priest’s Social Traits total. If the lead priest ties this test, 
participants receive no bonus or penalty during the rite. If the lead priest 
succeeds, everyone adds one Trait per level of the priest’s Path rating to their 
own Traits for the purposes of tests. This bonus applies to all tests directly 
associated with the ritm - 
during Fire Dancing, for instance, it applies to a 
vampire’s Physical Trait total for jumping the fire but not to trying to establish 
a psychic link to someone four blocks away. 
If the priest fails the test, make two Simple Tests. If the priest wins at least 
one of them, the rite unfolds as usual. Otherwise, all participants suffer a one- 
Trait penalty on all related tests - 
if the priest is spiritually impaired, how can 
he hope to lead his followers appropriately? The priest has the option of 
canceling the rite. This automatically imposes the Negative Status Trait 
Unfaithful, which the priest can remove only by successfully performing two 
auctmitas rim in the future. 
Everyone in the sect practices the auctontas ritae. Each one gives expres- 
sion to an important aspect of the Sabbat’s mission and goals, and their 
universal exercise binds members together. 
THE 
BINDING 
On the night of the winter solstice, Sabbat members gather for a public 
reaffirmation of their oaths to the sect. Just as the Vaulderie unites members 
of a pack, the Binding ties together all the oath-taking vampires in the 
community. 
The ceremony begins with a recitation of the group’s interpretation of the 
Sabbat credo. Each group does this a little differently. Some work it out in 
liturgical form while others present each point in metaphorical language or in 
the form of a parable. Military-style gatherings shout out the credo in call-and- 
response style. Sometimes the recitation takes an hour or occupies just a few 
angry sentences. 
Founded packs host nomadic packs, where possible, although the negotia- 
tions beforehand to allow safe passage seldom go smoothly (very few occasions 
could encourage such mutual restraint). Tradition calls for performing the 
Binding near water - 
a beach, riverbank or waterfall if possible, a fountain if 
there’s nothing else. Water symbolizes the sect’s implacable determination, 
eroding or flooding all opposition just as the Sabbat must in the end triumph 
completely. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Vaulderie and a separate oath to protect the sect’s secrets to Final Death 
almost always follow the Binding. Major Sabbat war efforts also often begin at 
the Binding, exploiting the unity of purpose the ritus creates. 
System: The Vinculum ratings of all participants in the ritus increase by 
one (to a maximum of lo), and remain elevated for the next month. 
THE 
BLOOD BATH 
Sect leaders perform this ritus to confirm a vampire’s appointment to a 
bishopric or higher office. All Sabbat members who can attend the Blood Bath 
do so; avoiding it unnecessarily may strike the new leader as an insult. Each 
participant in the ritus steps forward, kneels to the new leader, expresses praise 
for or confidence in the recipient and offers blood into a common vessel. The 
leading priest acts first, followed by attending sect leaders and then by 
everyone else present. The vampire receiving the new title offers a response of 
praise or advice to each vampire present, emphasizing her wisdom and how she 
benefits the Sabbat. He then bathes in the pool, and all participants drink from 
it. Sometimes the priest consecrates the pool as a Vaulderie, sometimes not. 
Fervent Sabbat supporters often refuse to acknowledge leaders who 
cannot produce evidence of having undergone a proper Blood Bath. 
System: Each participant must contribute at least one Blood Trait. If the 
pool is consecrated as a Vaulderie, follow the Vaulderie system. 
THE 
BLOOD 
EEAST 
The Blood Feast often accompanies other rim; in some cities, the bishops 
celebrate this on its own. This ritus combines an opportunity for formal 
gathering with a stark celebration of vampires’ predatory natures. 
The Blood Feast itself is the vampiric equivalent of a formal dinner. The 
guests dine on the blood of captured men and women suspended over a dining 
table, bound to statues or otherwise immobilized. 
Preparations begin well before the feast. For several nights before the feast, 
a specially constituted hunting party rounds up humans (and, when the 
opportunity arises, vampires outside the Sabbat). It’s an honor to be chosen to 
take part in the hunt, and it takes great self-restraint to deliver the captured 
prey alive and as unharmed as possible. The hunters present their prey along 
with demonstrations of martial prowess and boasts of their exploits to the 
highest-ranking Sabbat member present. She receives each victim and gives 
the vampire who brought the victim a kiss of thanks of the forehead. Vampires 
then secure the prey safely until the night of the Blood Feast. 
On the night of the feast, ghouls or low-ranking vampires arrange the prey 
at the Blood Feast’s location. The nature of the meal makes tardiness a grave 
offense against hospitality; guests arrive early or on time. The presiding official 
dedicates the prey to the glory of the Sabbat and the participants in the ritus. 
She may deliver a Sermon of Caine at this time, depending on how self- 
controlled the participants are in the face of imminent feeding. The presiding 
official gets her pick of the vessels and draws first blood. Once she’s begun, the 
guests set in. 
Tradition calls for a minimum of one vessel per three participants in the 
Blood Feast. Some groups favor more. The ratio depends partly on how tidily 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


or messily the participants feed. Some groups feed directly from the vessels 
while others drain the blood into champagne flutes or other containers. The 
presiding official may mandate a particular method of feeding or allow diverse 
styles as she deems fit. 
The priestly blessing at the beginning of the Blood Feast somehow 
intensifies the vessels’ blood as it leaves their bodies; it gains double normal 
potency. The Sabbat hierarchy appreciates the merits of the Blood Feast but 
censures groups that engage in it too often. Too many kidnappings and gore- 
spattered meeting halls attract mortal attention even in thoroughly cowed 
cities. 
System: The priest’s ceremony at the start of theritus transforms the blood 
ofvictims boundandpresentedfortheBloodFeast. EachBloodTraitofavessel 
so consecrated becomes two Blood Traits as it leaves the vessel’s body. 
Vampires who drink the consecrated blood get the benefit of two Blood Traits 
even though it only occupies one Blood Trait’s worth of capacity in their own 
bodies. Participants in the Blood Feast generally feel unusually energetic; the 
extra blood can take them beyond their normal generational limits for vitae. 
Any doubled Blood Traits unspent at the end of the third night after the Blood 
Feast collapse back into single Blood Traits. 
CREATION 
RITES 
Outsiders assume that the Sabbat’s “shovel party” is the standard way of 
making new Sabbat members. The sect knows otherwise. The process is 
inefficient; a lot of victims don’t make it out. Many of those who do survive 
emerge permanently insane. 
New recruits to the Sabbat don’t join as full members until they’ve proven 
themselves in combat or intrigue. Until they complete the Creation Rites, 
they’re on probation. They can be destroyed at any time for disobedience, 
creating childer of their own or even for getting in the way of their elders. The 
probation lasts at least for several days, often for weeks and goes on for years 
in areas with very strict leadership. A sire may require his childe to display her 
newfound strength and nature by performing in a test of his choosing before he 
considers her ready for the rite. 
A priest administers the Creation Rites. She touches a flaming brand to 
the initiate’s forehead and leads her in an oath of allegiance. The phrasing 
varies; the key points include loyalty to one’s pack leader, to the chain of 
command and to the principles of the Sabbat as they’ve been taught to the 
recruit. Once branded, the initiate becomes a true member of the Sabbat, with 
all the risks and benefits that implies. The priest follows the branding with a 
Vaulderie. 
Sires and packs often add celebrations or other rites of their own. Young 
urban packs perform gang-style initiations while dignified elders present their 
upper-class childer in formal gatherings. In their various forms, such supple- 
mental commemorations both congratulate the new recruit and remind her 
that she is still at the bottom of the pile. 
System: The branding requires the new recruit to succeed in a two-Trait 
Rotschreck test. A recruit who panics gets a second chance, albeit with a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


substantial stigma for cowardice. Failing the test a second time brings imme- 
diate destruction. 
See Laws of the Night, p. 224, for the shovel-party rules. 
Some bishops like to form new packs in a special version of the Creation 
Rites. Each member of the pack-to-be gets drained and buried as if the victim 
of a shovel party, and must dig her way out. With the benefits of vampiric 
strength, a vampire undergoing re-creation must win or tie two out of three 
Simple Tests with the Narrator (rather than having to win two out of three). 
Like a mortal in the same situation, the vampire can spend Physical Traits for 
retests. When (and if) all the members of the pack emerge, their designated 
priest brands himself and the other members of the pack and leads them in a 
Vaulderie. Since there’s always the risk of losing vampires in this process, 
bishops in areas of active conflict or reduced numbers of members frown on the 
practice. 
THE 
EESTIVAL OETHE DEAD 
(EESTIVO DELLO 
FSTINTO) 
The Festival of the Dead occupies the entire second week of March; it’s 
second only to the Grand Ball as an opportunity for participants to celebrate 
their trans-human abilities. All the Sabbat vampires in a city gather, setting 
aside usual disputes for the week of the Festival, and nomadic packs come into 
town to celebrate with their urban brethren. 
The Festival begins as soon as the highest-ranking priest in town declares 
it underway. He gives a single instruction to the assembledparticipants: Revel. 
This i s  the time for vampires to set aside their normal restraints and find out 
just what they can do to themselves, to each other and above all to the mortals 
around them. Each night includes a Blood Feast and a celebration of the 
Vaulderie after the night’s exertions, scheduled as late as possible given the 
need of the participants to settle down for the day. 
In principle, the Festival’s participants should act utterly without regard 
for anyone’s concerns but their own. In practice, the world is still there even 
while vampires celebrate. The Sabbat uses the Festival partly to weed out the 
vampires who cannot distinguish between the freedom to choose their own 
course of action and consequences to their choices. Vampires who bring out 
mortal hunters or other supernatural beings in response to Festival behavior 
deserve what they get, the sect’s teachers say. 
Festival events vary widely. Fire Dancing takes place almost everywhere, 
often coupled with dances pairing vampires with unwilling mortal partners. 
Packs whose members know Necromancy often raise zombies to provide 
accompaniment. In many cities, packs compete to present reenactments of 
passages from the Book of Nod and Sabbat history. Vampires who fancy 
themselves great hunters set out on special hunts, going after specific sorts of 
victims - 
teen mothers, bald priests, married computer programmers or some 
other specialized category of mortal. Vampires with experience in butchery, 
surgery and the like oversee competitions to kill victims with a minimum of 
blood spilled or to remove of as many internal organs as possible while keeping 
the victim alive and conscious. 
Presiding archbishops and bishops watch the various competitions and 
award victors with the right of drawing first blood at the next Blood Feast. In 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


some cases, aparticularly good performance wins the victor apromotion on the 
spot while an appalling failure may lead to demotion or to the loser becoming 
one of the next Blood Feast’s vessels. Elders look with favor on competitions 
to hunt as widely and freely as possible without attracting mortal attention. 
Success in this sort of challenge requires developing and presenting a plausible 
cover story, such as a terrorist attack. The Sabbat hierarchy admires and 
rewards the ability to use mortal institutions without becoming tangled in 
mortal values or concerns like the Camarilla. 
System: Resolve the various competitions as seems appropriate. The 
Festival is as much an occasion for roleplaying as for number-crunching. Note 
that many Festival sports require a fair number of Storyteller mortal characters, 
so plan ahead to have enough Narrator support. 
EIRE DANCE 
Fire is one of the great enemies to vampire, a danger to flee. The Sabbat 
believes in mastering that fear. In times of war, Sabbat vampires use fire as a 
weapon against their enemies. In between battles, they perform the Fire Dance 
to show their triumph over the weaknesses in their souls. 
A priest can call a Fire Dance at any time, whenever she judges the pack 
in need of some morale boosting. Bishops generally celebrate a Fire Dance just 
before a War Party, bringing together all the packs who will fight in the 
upcoming assault. Given the Sabbat’s emphasis on individual freedom, the 
convening priest never forces a vampire to take part in the ritus until she feels 
truly ready for it. Most vampires somehow find the resolve to participate 
anyway; their packmates do not tolerate cowardice, and too many refusals of 
the Fire Dance can get a vampire exiled or destroyed. 
The convening priest lights a bonfire somewhere away from mortal eyes. 
Participants set a rhythm with drumming, chanting or other regular music. 
They circle the fire, working themselves into a trancelike frenzy. They close 
in on the flames until primitive instinct forces them away; some make 
obeisance to the fire as if it is a god they hate but still venerate. As each 
participant feels ready, she jumps through the flames. The more vampires make 
it through, the more they encourage (and challenge) the remaining partici- 
pants to do so. Particularly devoted or entranced vampires jump again and 
again; some perform the most exotic stunts along the way. The n’tus ends when 
every vampire has jumped. 
Sometimes a vampire simply can’t muster the courage to jump. Tolerant 
packs throw him through so as to honor the spirit of the occasion. Less tolerant 
packs slaughter him as an inferior breed or pin him down in the fire to help him 
overcome his weakness. 
System: Once the fire’s started and the revels begin, participating vam- 
pires must make a Courage test against two Traits to approach the fire. (Their 
trance state reduces the normal difficulty.) Actually jumping through the fire 
requires a Static Physical Challenge against five Traits. The Storyteller should 
increase the difficulty of complex maneuvers; if they work, the participant 
gains one or more bonus Social Traits for the rest of the night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
i 
I 
All participants who voluntarily leap through the fire get a bonus Courage 
Trait for the rest of the night and for three nights after that. This bonus can 
exceed the usual Virtue limit of 5. 
Do not, under any circumstances, actually go leaping through bonfires. Use 
your imagination to capture a sense of the experience without the prop of real fire. 
The Sabbat glorifies achievement. Thinking grand thoughts doesn’t mean 
anything without action. Therefore, the ceremonial demonstration of one’s 
physical, mental and social prowess is a religious act. The label “Games of 
Instinct” applies to all competitions in which participants compete against each 
other and the surrounding world in ways that exemplify the Sabbat’s ideas. 
Note that Games of Instinct do not include random carnage for its own sake. 
The Sabbat does not believe in the Masquerade as a goal, but sect leaders aren’t 
stupid and know that there are very firm limits to how far vampires can go 
without bringing down massive reprisals. The Sabbat does not value stupidity 
and won’t reward it, let alone treat it as a matter of spiritual importance. 
The priest presides over each game, blessing the participants and instructing 
them in the terms of this particular game. The practice should resemble the 
ancient Olympic games in which participants demonstrated physical excellence 
as an act of worship. The games are vigorous, enthusiastic and often bloody, but 
never frivolous. Holy joy in one’s superiority is far more than simple bloodthirst. 
System: The specific mechanical aspects of a Game of Instinct depend on 
the nature of the game. All games share a specific feature. The winners of a 
game get a one-Trait bonus to one Ability they used during the game. This 
bonus lasts for two weeks of game time. A vampire can only enjoy this benefit 
for one Ability at a time, no matter how many games she participates in. 
C~AMFS OP INSTINCT 
Some examples of common Games of Instinct: 
Capture the Ductus. This game pits two packs against each other. The 
priest designates territory, generally a few square blocks. Each pack aims to 
present the ductus of the other to the priest; the first pack to do so wins. 
Inflicting Final Death on any participant automatically costs the destroyer’s 
pack the game (plus the rage of the offended pack). The priest has discretion 
in setting boundaries for mortal awareness. Particularly challenging games 
require that no mortal ever know the game’s being played while other times, 
for games of terror, the priest actively condones displays of vampiric power. 
The Rat Race. At the beginning of the game, participants unleash one 
or more humans in a bounded, labyrinthine space -an actual maze, a factory 
district or someplace else with complex terrain. The humans get piles of 
weaponry capable of actually hurting the vampires. Then the vampires go in 
unarmed and hunt the humans. Each vampire who drains a human wins. It’s 
“legit” to cripple or maim competing vampires, but not to torpor or destroy 
them. A more extreme form of this game requires vampiric participants to draw 
straws, with the one who gets the short straw becoming the designated victim. 
The vampiric variety seldom proceeds to Final Death except as a punishment 
(in which the draw of straws is usually rigged). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Rousing theBeast. Eachparticipant must dig up avictimofafailedshovel 
party. The participant must then immobilize and destroy his victim. Keep in 
mind that the victim emerges weak but in frenzy. The process of consecrating 
disinterment as a rim somehow strengthens the victim, who regains one Trait 
per turn until at full strength and suffers half normal wound penalties. 
The Spire. The priest designates some target to climb that human 
beings cannot achieve without elaborate tools, such as the tallest skyscraper in 
the area. The participants must scale it using only their own bare hands and 
feet, their Attributes, Abilities and Disciplines. The first one to the top and 
back down wins. Climbing barehanded up modern buildings (stone, glass and 
metal, etc.) requires a Simple Physical Test every 10 feet or so. The difficulty 
varies, from six Traits for conveniently sized bricks up to 12 or more for sheer 
featureless walls. Using Disciplines stylishly doesn’t guarantee a win, but earns 
the respect of competitors. 
C~RAND BALL (PALLA 
C~RANDC) 
The Grand Ball - 
Palla Grande to Sabbat elders and others who like to 
retain a European flavor to their rim - 
marks the end of the Sabbat’s year. On 
All Hallows Eve, all the vampires in the city gather for a two-part celebration. 
Some archbishops summon all the vampires in their territory to celebrate in 
asingle city; others encourage separate celebrations in eachcity. In either case, 
attendance is not optional. Nomad packs converge on the nearest city holding 
a Grand Ball. The most renowned priest in the city (who may not be the 
highest-ranked) oversees the ritus. 
The night before the Grand Ball, the presiding priest and her assistants 
prepare incense burners. The burners hold an exotic mix of herbs and 
chemicals designed to weaken mortals’ willpower and skepticism and induce 
a mild hallucinogenic state in which acquiescence and belief come easily. As 
she blesses each burner, the priest adds a Blood Trait of her own to start the 
mix’s transformation. 
The first part of the Grand Ball takes place in public, often staged as a 
festival, a rave or some other gathering open to the general populace. The 
Ball’s vampiric hosts generally put on a fancy spread in whatever idiom they 
choose, with the best music, plenty of free food and drink and so on. Almost 
all Grand Balls emphasize costumes, going beyond fancy wardrobe to include 
physical transformation through Vicissitude and the illusions of Obfuscate and 
Chimerstry . Eachvampiric participant in the ritus adds a Blood Trait of his own 
to one (or more) of the incense burners. The air takes on a very slight pink tinge 
and all mortals in the area experience a mild form of the surrender that comes 
with the Embrace. 
The second part of the Grand Ball takes place away from mortal eyes. The 
priest convenes a Blood Feast for the vampires of the area. Daring groups 
snatch their vessels from the nearby crowd or from the unlucky recipients of 
invitations to a “special private gathering” associated with the ball’s public 
face. Sabbat communities who face more serious challenges from hunters or 
whose leaders believe in not creating unnecessary risks round up their victims 
for weeks beforehand. Sabbat vampires, retainers and ghouls who’ve commit- 
ted flagrant offenses also become vessels for the occasion. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


At midnight, individuals chosen by the presiding priest present a reenact- 
ment of an event from Cainite legend or history. In some cities, would-be 
actors compete for the priest’s favor; in others, theatre duty is as much a 
punishment as a reward. Caine’s murder of Abel outstrips all other topics in 
popularity, with the diablerie of the Tzimisce and Lasombra Antediluvians 
close behind. Gehenna scenes attract both favor and controversy, with some 
elders (and devout neonates) arguing that too much attention to future 
troubles undermines morale. Most theatre groups include some element of 
audience participation, seizing prepared targets for use as disposable props. 
After the show, the archbishop or ranking bishop present receives the 
Blood Bath. The recipient reclines in a tub, pool or other large container. 
Attendants bleed out selected victims to fill the pool. Each vampire present 
contributes vitae to a Vaulderie cup, whose contents then join the mortal 
blood. The recipient maintains a steady chanting all the while, and takes in a 
bit of the essence of the other participants. 
At the conclusion of the Blood Bath, the participants join the bath‘s 
recipient in a final pre-dawn dance, generally very noisy and almost always 
ending in a frenzied attack on the unfortunate mortals saved for the consum- 
mation of the rim. In most cases, the participants collapse in the ball’s private 
space and rely on ghouls to take care of guarding them and cleaning up during 
the following day. Over the next several days, vampires and ghouls charged 
with attending to the aftermath use a combination of lethal force, mental 
Disciplines and occasional Embraces to tidy up loose ends. 
System: Grand Ball participants gain the benefits of the Blood Feast and 
Blood Bath as usual. In addition, they completely replenish their Willpower. 
Each participant must contribute at least one Blood Trait to the cloaking 
incense burners, and may contribute more. The recipient of the Blood Bath 
can make a Mental Challenge against any of the other participants; if she 
succeeds, the recipient can use any oracular powers the target possesses, like 
Auspex and some Thaumaturgical Paths, as if they were her own for the night. 
She does not gain fine control, seeingrandom moments of the coming year that 
warrant her attention. The Storyteller should feel free to make the resulting 
images symbolic and allusive, and to allow circumstances to render them null 
and void. 
MONOMACY 
The Sabbat’s internal disagreements don’t always erupt into war, contrary 
to the popular opinion among outsiders. Most conflicts find fairly quick and 
fairly peaceful resolution, through a combination of actual persuasion, use of 
Status and the occasional push with Disciplines. When two individuals can’t 
settle a quarrel, often their authorities, starting with the pack leader and priest, 
can. Sometimes all efforts at mediation fail. Monomacy provides the ultimate 
resolution: Combat to the death. 
Monomacy isn’t just a duel to the death. Through careful authorization of 
Monomacy, the Sabbat applies a limited form of evolutionary selection to its 
ranks. The duels purge individuals who were too physically weak or too 
crippled by bad ideas to make effective use of their abilities. The sect grows 
stronger as the weak and inefficient fall - 
better to lose them in an internal 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


dispute than to suffer them in crises to come. Strong leaders and strong 
followers keep the sect strong as well. 
Monomacy is a genuine rim, not a right anyone can claim on their own. 
The Sabbat denies the opportunity to young, unproven recruits who don’t 
appreciate the gravity ofwhat they’re doing. If everyone could get their leaders’ 
blessings for the sacred duel, in short order most packs would lose all their 
members over trivial matters. The pack priest must formalize any effort at 
Monomacy. The challenger presents her claim to the priest and the target 
simultaneously. The priest decides whether the point of conflict warrants 
Monomacy, and if so, whether the priest will preside himself or appoint a 
substitute. If the priest is himself the challenged party, the ductus presides or 
refers it to another pack‘s priest. 
The defender doesn’t have to accept just because the priest approves. 
Declining involves some loss of status, since bystanders assume cowardice or 
some shameful secret must contribute to the refusal to take part in an 
important ritus. The defender encounters fewer hassles if the challenger is of 
much lower rank. Leaders can brush off even genuinely serious claims as just 
another case of a youngster being uppity. 
When the challenger and defender belong to the same pack, it’s easy to 
pick the right authority to arbitrate: Their pack priest does the job. Matters get 
more complex when the disputing parties belong to different packs. In theory, 
a bishop should hear such cases. In practice, most bishops feel they have better 
things to do with their time and respond unfavorably to all but the most urgent 
or illuminating claims. Rivals often do better to seek out the priest of a third 
pack, preferably but not always one they both know, and ask him to perform 
the ritus. 
The definition of the ritus leaves the setting and method of combat open. 
As long as it satisfies the participants and the overseeing priest, it’s fine. The 
challenger sets the time and place; the defender rules on weapons and other 
details. The defender can ask for the duel to be to first blood rather than Final 
Death. In such a case the loser faces exile. A defender who takes such a wimpy 
course of action loses respect whether he loses the duel or not. More impressive 
restrictions include fighting while blindfolded, fighting surrounded by fire, 
fighting only with out-of-clan Disciplines and the like. The priest declares the 
duel begun and finished. Priests and archbishops can declare a Monomacy null 
and void, but doing so for any reason short of proof of direct cheating by a 
participant invites new Monomacy-worthy challenges against the priest. 
Sometimes Monomacy takes on strange forms. Lasombra elders may 
choose to duel with life-sized chessboard populated by living pieces, moved by 
threat or command. A famous conflict between a Tzimisce and a Ventrue 
untitribu ended in a Monomacy in which each took turns shooting one of the 
other’s ghouls. The Tzimisce won when the last of the Ventrue’s ghouls 
succumbed to his wounds and fell over. 
The winner of the Monomacy gets his pick of the loser’s possessions. This 
doesn’t include diablerie unless the priest approves it as a term of the contest. 
Custom suggests but doesn’t require offering a cut to the presiding priest. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Anything left over goes to the loser’s packmates and any scavengers who can 
stake a claim. 
Monomacy settles all sorts of serious disputes within the sect. Would-be 
ducti, pack priests and bishops bring out their grievances (and generally lose). 
Individuals contesting points of influence take it to a duel if their priest deems 
the issue important to Sabbat activity in the area. Rumor says that the current 
regent took her position after besting her predecessor in a simple no-weapons 
physical battle. 
System: This ritus calls for very little mechanical adjudication. The form 
of the fight itself suggests what sorts of challenges the participants should 
make. The priest’s player should emphasize the seriousness of the occasion 
with proper pomp and circumstance. This isn’t just a rumble, it’s a rumble with 
profound religious significance. Whatever theme and style a pack presents - 
urban gang, enthusiastic cult, disciplined military team or something else - 
should color the proceedings. The priest should feel at liberty to add plausible 
restrictions, perhaps postponing the battle to the next new or full moon or 
requiring the setting to incorporate sacred numbers. 
SERMONS 
OP CAINF 
Caine the historical (or at least mythical) figure matters very much to 
some Sabbat members, not at all to others. Among the vampires who care 
enough to argue theology, some treat Caine as the biggest, oldest and therefore 
worst menace of all, while others find in him the example of true freedom and 
individuality. Vampires who do care about origins and do take Caine as their 
inspiration gather regularly to listen to teachings about him. This ritus renews 
their conviction and provides them with the shared attitudes and ideas to 
resolve disputes. 
In some packs, the priest always delivers the sermon. In others, pack 
members share the duties. Each one in turn recites some favored passage from 
the Book of Nod and offers comments about its relevance to the pack‘s 
situation. Depending on the pack‘s preferences, the speaker may get an 
uninterrupted audience, or the rest of the pack may argue back. After the 
sermon, the priest may perform the Vaulderie. Enthusiastic pack members may 
continue the “discussion” until the approach of dawn. 
Vampiric society has very few written records. The Book of Nod isn’t a 
single text - 
it’s a mass of fragments and an attitude about Cainite origins. 
Sabbat packs argue constantly about the best, truest or oldest phrasing of a 
passage, and about whether a passage belongs in canon at all. Some believers 
argue that the sect must establish a single authoritative reading and make sure 
everyone studies it. Others claim, with just as muchfervor, that the spirit of the 
work transcends any specific text, so competing searches for illumination serve 
the sect’s best interests. Arguments on these points sometimes destroy packs 
and fuel inter-pack wars. 
System: This ritus doesn’t really require any mechanics. If Storytellers 
want, they can ask for Performance tests to see how effectively a speaker 
communicates her point. Regular exposure to the Sermons of Caine might 
raise a participant’s Sabbat Lore, up to a limit of one or two levels less than that 
of the pack priest. This ritus is primarily an occasion for roleplaying. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


VAULDFRIF 
AND VINCULUM 
The Vaulderie defines the Sabbat as a group. Vampires who partake show 
that they are part of the sect; vampires who refuse the cup can never really 
belong. The Blood Bond as Camarilla and independent vampires use it binds 
the subject as the slave of his regnant. It reinforces the static hierarchy of elder 
over childe. The Vaulderie makes the participants equal, uniting them in their 
shared cause. It also introduces a constantly shifting mosaic of relationships as 
the vampire who held another in highest esteem last night has a new target of 
supreme devotion tonight. The bonds don’t erode; they do gain rivals of equal 
or greater intensity. 
Simply mixing vitae isn’t sufficient for the Vaulderie. The presiding priest 
must use a cutting tool and cup dedicated to this specific purpose. Priests 
generally decorate their tools with hieroglyphics and artwork that expresses 
their pack concerns. (Artisans who produce tools that express a pack‘s shared 
sense of self gain high status. The Sabbat never has enough creators to match 
its ranks of corruptors and destroyers.) 
The priest takes her ritual tools, makes a cut in herself and drains out as 
many Blood Traits as she cares to contribute. Once the priest begins the 
ceremony, she passes the cup and tool to each participant in turn, who 
contributes as many Blood Traits as he chooses. 
Contributing only one Blood Trait looks bad - 
do you have something 
to hide? Contributing five or more Blood Traits, except when duty requires, 
looks bad, too - 
are you angling for control? The ductus must contribute at 
least one Blood Trait per participant (down to a minimum of one Blood Trait 
remaining), and generally aims to put in more than anyone else as a show of 
dedication and primacy of place. Trying to put in someone else’s blood, from 
a concealed pouch or other source, doesn’t work. The cup erupts and splashes 
the blood everywhere. Everyone loses the blood they put in. The priest must 
start the ritual again, and the offender probably faces swift destruction. 
The priest takes the filled cup and performs a simple ritual over it that 
merges the blood together. Real magic happens at this point. Even if the priest 
was chosen on the spur of the moment by packmates interested in renewing 
their Vinculum, a priest performing the ritual makes it work while someone 
not chosen as priest could perform the same ritual but get no results. The priest 
offers a brief blessing on each participant as she drinks from the cup. The ritual 
gives back to each participant as many Blood Traits as she put in. 
Every Sabbat member takes the Vaulderie seriously. Even the most feral 
wanderers or rowdy urban punks settle down for this ritual even if they’re never 
serious at any other time. This is what it’s all about. 
The Vaulderie generates the Sabbat’s alternative to the blood bond, the 
Vinculum. Each vampire takes away from the ritual a special bond to some 
other members of the pack (or whatever group performs the ritual). In game 
terms, each participant has a Vinculum rating of 1-10 with each of the other 
participants. The stronger the bond, the more firmly the participants feel 
bound to each other. At the high end, the Vinculum ties individuals together 
even more tightly than the blood bond. Note that Vinculum ratings aren’t 
symmetrical. Andrew can have a Vinculum rating of 6 to Bettina, indicating 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


a very strong attachment to her, while she has only a rating of 1 to him, 
indicating the minimum possible result from sharing the ritual. 
System: The system given here supercedes that in Laws of the Night, p. 
224. 
The player of a vampire taking part in the Vaulderie writes the character’s 
name on an index card to represent one Blood Trait added to the cup. Find a 
container big enough to hold the cards players contribute -a 
typical chalice 
will overflow. Don’t carry the roleplaying of bloodletting to an extreme, and 
whatever you do, don’t really drain any blood for this purpose (or any purpose 
in the game). 
The player of the priest mixes the cards together, generally with some 
ritual. The level of ceremony depends on the group’s preferences. The priest’s 
invocation may be a simple “Grant us the strength to defeat all our enemies 
through unity of purpose” or a full-blown recitation from the Book ofNod about 
Caine’s refusal to bow to God’s threats. Likewise, the blessing can range from 
“Take courage to perform all your duties well” to complete Latin renderings of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


liturgical prayers adapted to the Sabbat’s worldview. Each participant draws 
out one card for each one he put in. If you want to work with religious themes, 
choose your place carefully. Don’t freak the bystanders and people not taking 
part. Save the funky stuff for private spaces. 
The first time a vampire takes part in the Vaulderie, she gets a Vinculum 
rating of 1 toward every other participant, plus one for each Blood Trait she 
drank that belonged to a particular individual. In later performances of the 
Vaulderie, she makes a Static Challenge of her current Vinculum rating 
toward a particular individual against a total of one plus the number of Blood 
Traits she drank that belonged to that individual this time. If she loses the 
challenge, her Vinculum rating toward that individual rises by one. If she ties, 
her Vinculum rating remains the same. If she wins, she can (at her discretion) 
make two Simple Tests. If she wins both, her Vinculum rating toward that 
individual falls by one; otherwise it remains the same. Her Vinculum rating 
toward a fellow participant in this Vaulderie can never fall below 1. The player 
cannot spend Willpower or Traits for retests in these challenges. 
Optionally, you may simplify proceedings. You can have each player test 
for her character’s Vinculum rating toward everyone involved in the ritus by 
a single Static Challenge against the highest total of Blood Traits she drew. 
Keep in mind that this cuts out many layers of inter-personal intrigue that give 
Sabbat games an important part of their flavor. Discuss it with players before 
adopting it. 
Vinculum ratings don’t fade over time. Only a feat of will in the 
celebration of the Vaulderie lets a vampire break some of her ties to others. 
Packs that regularly celebrate the Vaulderie develop very close ties, and the 
Sabbat’s elders retain a network of deep connections to each other. Rumor 
attributes a Vinculum-breaking ritual to Nosferatu untitribu, the Sabbat 
Inquisition or both. Allegedly, the Inquisition uses it to break ties between 
loyal Sabbat members and infemalists, but it is considered rumor at this point. 
A character attempting to destroy another vampire to whom he has any 
Vinculum rating at all must spend two Willpower Traits. Acting less termi- 
nally against the interests of a vampire to whom he has a Vinculum rating of 
three or more requires spending one Willpower Trait, and acting against a 
Vinculum rating of six or more requires two Willpower Traits. The only 
exception is Monomacy performed under the supervision of an approved 
Sabbat official. 
When a character with Vinculum ties to several individuals faces a choice 
between them, she draws on the Vinculum to settle her conflicting impulses. 
She makes an Extended Challenge of her Willpower against each of the 
Vinculum ratings involved (adding two to her Willpower when testing for the 
individual she favors most). Whichever individual wins the most successes in 
the challenge gets her loyalty in that situation. She may also simply go with 
whomever she has the higher Vinculum rating for, especially if the difference 
is two or greater. 
The Vaulderie gradually breaks down blood bonds. A vampire seeking 
release from bondage must put in at least six Blood Traits and reduce himself 
down to one Blood Trait remaining. Taking in six points of Vaulderie- 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


consecrated blood negates the effects of one draught of an individual vampire’s 
blood. Doing this three times, therefore, completely breaks a blood bond (and 
generates very strong Vinculum ratings). 
WAR PARTY 
The War Party puts Sabbat doctrine to practical use. Multiple packs 
compete for the blood of a designated non-Sabbat elder, with the winners 
getting the benefits of diablerie. Hunting elders isn’t easy - 
they generally 
didn’t survive all those centuries by being careless or stupid, after all. In 
addition, while rival packs seldom use outright lethal force against each other, 
they can and do sabotage each other’s efforts with means that stop short of 
destruction. 
A Sabbat member of bishop or higher rank declares a War Party after 
identifying an elder whose removal would benefit the sect. (Almost every non- 
Sabbat elder poses a threat to the sect in some sense.) Preparations usually 
include a Fire Dance, a Sermon of Caine and a Blood Feast or Vaulderie. The 
chief of the War Party - 
usually the highest ranking priest involved, though 
sometimes ducti or bishops lead more politically oriented hunts - 
addresses 
the assembled packs. He asks each ductus one of the few ritual questions that 
actually has a standard phrasing throughout the sect: “DO you come freely to 
war, and do you take up this noble cause, never resting until the blood of our 
enemy is spilled?” Each ductus answers with “We do!” After this expression of 
commitment, the War Party leader identifies the target and presents informa- 
tion that might help the hunt. 
A ductus can decide to withdraw her pack from the challenge. She faces 
ridicule for this, and any packmates who call for Monomacy generally win 
approval on the spot. The packs who remain celebrate the rest of the night and 
embark on the hunt itself after rising from sleep on the following night. 
The War Party makes every tactic legitimate if not automatically wise. 
Hunting packs can inflict whatever collateral damage they deem necessary on 
their way to the target, and when the destructive action shows courage and 
forethought, packs not participating in the War Party often help clean up the 
damage. In the final approach to the target’s haven, competing packs often 
dispense with niceties like doors if they have members with the strength to 
break through barriers. Note that sometimes, brute force is very unwise. A 
well-protected target calls for approaches emphasizing stealth and treachery. 
Some War Parties last for weeks or even months rather than a few violent 
nights. 
Only one member of the winning pack gets the full benefit of the diablerie, 
of course. Sabbat tradition generally recognizes success, and awards the kill to 
the first vampire to get her fangs into the victim. Pack members need not sit 
idly by, however. Tradition also endorses vigorous competition, and it’s not 
uncommon for a hunt to end with only one pack member still mobile enough 
to actually commit the deed. 
The target elder seldom acquiesces calmly to her fate. Entire city blocks 
sometimes collapse in rubble in the ensuing struggle. Depending on their 
personal styles, targeted elders may unleash Master-level Disciplines or potent 
bribes in various coins. Every so often, a winning pack gets a good enough offer 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-4 
to betray the Sabbat and defend the elder, though they usually don’t survive 
long after that. 
The War Party ritus comes to an end when the winning pack presents 
tangible evidence of their kill to the War Party leader. The leader accepts the 
token after examining it for signs of fakery and blesses the victors. All surviving 
packs gather for another round of revels as soon as news of the War Party’s 
resolution spreads. 
System: The individual vampire who actually diablerizes the target gets 
all the usual benefits of diablerie. The members of the winning pack get the 
temporary Status of Martial, which lasts until the next War Party, Grand Ball 
or Festival of the Dead. Particularly prominent targets like Methuselahs win 
permanent Status for the victors. 
WILD HUNT 
The Wild Hunt gives force to the Sabbat’s emphasis on devotion. A 
member who betrays the sect’s secrets risks this ultimate sanction. 
A priest calls the Wild Hunt. Generally the highest-ranking priest in the 
vicinity does so, and she’d better have the support of her superiors before 
accusing another Sabbat member of treachery or face the same punishment 
herself. All loyal sect members in the area must hunt down the traitor and 
anyone, Cainite or mortal, to whom he may have given the information. 
Overzealous vampires who destroy a Wild Hunt target before interrogation 
risk Final Death themselves. The traitor’s contacts are exterminated only after 
examination makes sure that they haven’t spread the leaked information 
further. 
The Wild Hunt seldom takes place in the risky and yet exuberant 
atmosphere of a War Party. Treachery exposes the whole sect to risk. Whatever 
preparatory rites take place, their priests perform them solemnly. Vaulderie is 
essential, and Fire Dancing usually accompanies it. 
The vampire who captures the traitor and his contacts bring their prisoner 
back to some central meeting place for questioning. The ductus and priest, and 
any superiors who wish to take part, recite the traitor’s crimes and use torture 
to extract confirmation. Hot irons, mutilation, Vicissitude and a multitude of 
other means come into play. Once the traitor confirms his sins and the Sabbat 
establishes the spread of his leaked secrets, torture becomes straightforward 
punishment, lasting as long as anyone involved has ideas about how to hurt the 
traitor. Vampiric collaborators also face torture while mortal allies generally 
meet quick, if painful, ends. 
After tormenting the traitor, his former packmates throw his staked body 
onto a consecrated funeral pyre. An attending priest recites the Book ofNod’s 
Chronicle of Caine to remind all involved that victory requires unity and that 
distrust makes unity impossible. Vaulderie follows to reestablish the bonds of 
mutual commitment. 
System: Some regions practice the ignoblis ritus of Contrition, to allow 
traitors to make amends. Storytellers may allow the targets of a Wild Hunt to 
invoke this or not, at Storyteller discretion. For minor offenses, allowing 
contrition with punishment balances severity with the avoidance of hasty 
character death. More serious offenses should bring a more serious penalty: 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Sabbat is not a place where “do as you please” flourishes without 
qualification, and sometimes nothing short of character death makes the point 
clear. Never arrange a character’s death lightly, but don’t hold back when it’s 
truly earned. 
LOW RITES (1gNom1s RITA€) 
The “low rites” vary from pack to pack. Not all packs observe them; many 
packs that do acknowledge them put local variations and emphases on them. 
Storytellers can establish ignoblis ritae for their chronicles, and players should 
feel free to work up new low rites subject to review by their characters’ 
superiors. 
The Sabbat works from the bottom up as well as from the top down. In the 
war against the shadows of the past, innovation is one of the sect’s key weapons. 
Characters should know that their innovations may well meet with favorable 
response. Sect leaders encourage new ways of putting existing principles into 
action, particularly in response to new situations. 
ACCEPTANCE 
Acceptance ritae mark an individual’s induction to a pack, whether at the 
end of auctoritas Creation Rites, adoption of an existing Sabbat member 
separated from his old pack or as a reaffirmation of the pack‘s membership after 
a change of leadership. Each member of the pack acknowledges the newcomer 
with some personal token. Some packs offer vitae while others offer gifts, 
advice, favors or something else useful. There’s no innate magical benefit in 
the Acceptance ritus, just the social bond. Many packs include a short oath in 
which the newcomer acknowledges his debt to the pack and the sect; in turn, 
his new packmates take an oath to treat him as an equal, with the same rewards 
for his successes and punishments for his failures that they all face. 
ALLE~IANCE 
The Allegiance ritus bridges the gap between formal creation of a new 
Sabbat member and her acceptance into a specific pack. The new vampire 
must prove herself familiar with the sect’s ideals and capable of acting 
effectively. While in this transitional period, the vampire occupies a distinctly 
secondary position. She stands at the rear during uuctoritas ria, drinks last at 
the Vaulderie (and generally can’t contribute her own blood) and cannot 
engage in discussion of the Book ofhrod. Most packs administer a secret mark 
of some sort as part of the ritus, identifying the recipient as someone who’s 
begun to win acceptance and not yet completed the process. 
The trial period may last only a few weeks if the vampire proves remark- 
ably capable or may stretch on for years. A vampire who never succeeds in 
impressing a pack enough to warrant Acceptance faces the threat of Final 
Death administered by her disappointed creators. Camarilla defectors spend 
more time under scrutiny and must complete tougher challenges of their new 
loyalty, often including attacks on their former comrades. 
THE 
Asp’s BLESS IN^ 
Sabbat teachings sometimes compare the sect to a snake. This ritus gives 
that metaphor tangible form. The priest raises a snake (almost always of some 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


poisonous species) before the pack and asks Caine’s spirit to guide the snake’s 
eyes and fangs. Each pack member must step forward to kiss the snake. If it bites 
back, the priest denounces the participant for concealed sins. At the end of the 
Asp’s Blessing ritus, examination and Contrition rime follow for all who failed 
the test of purity. 
CONTRITION 
The Contrition ritus is most likely to win promotion to auctoritas status 
soon; very nearly every pack practices it in some form. Sabbat members who’ve 
committed offenses against the sect confess their failings and accept any 
punishment short of Final Death. Minor failures earn no more than a beating 
and assignment to unpleasant duties. Breaches of sect security might win 
dismemberment and the restoration of just enough vitae to let the contrite 
vampire begin healing. 
Packs vary in their willingness to accept repeated performance of the 
Contritionritus, whether for the same offense again and again or for a diversified 
but sustained pattern of clueless conduct. Packs whose leaders show too much 
leniency face condemnation themselves. The sect is, after, all, at war. 
W F L C o M I N q  
The Welcoming ritus is, like Acceptance, a social occasion. Whenever 
two packs meet for a shared task, or a nomad pack enters a city, they have to 
establish some neutral space within which to become acquainted. The mem- 
bers of the packs name themselves and their homes. Vampires who recognize 
others with whom they have grievances promptly say so, and the packs’ ducti 
and priests attempt to mediate the dispute. A short, non-lethal duel often 
follows just to let the disputing parties deal with it. The packs’ leaders establish 
basic protocols governing access to havens and favored feeding grounds. All 
the packmates then reaffirm their loyalty to the Sabbat’s twin emphasis on 
individual liberty and united action. In many areas, the pack leaders exchange 
blood; in areas with a very strong religious emphasis, everyone in the packs may 
immediately share the Vaulderie. 
After the Welcoming Titus, pack leaders feel more comfortable making 
plans for whatever their common purpose may be. 
T H A N K S ~ I V I N ~  
The Thanksgiving ritus practices the giving of thanks in an old-fashioned, 
literal sense. Members of a pack gather and each tells a story about his exploits. 
He begins, (‘1 thank Caine for his favor when I.. . .” Then he recounts a recent 
accomplishment, aiming to show his particularly remarkable strength, cun- 
ning or other desirable characteristic. Exaggeration is routine in almost all 
packs that practice this ritus. Thanksgiving often precedes an esbat or other 
more formal occasion. 
MARTIAL 
Martial rim take many forms, all with the goal of mustering pack 
members’ enthusiasm for and ability to take the endless war to their enemies. 
A Martial ritus generally involves some rhythmic activity to ease participants 
into a trance state. Music, dance and martial arts all enjoy widespread 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


popularity. Traditional (or neo-primitive) groups include body adornment, 
ritual scarification and the like. 
SPILLINS 
OE BLOOD 
The ritus of the Spilling of Blood is one of several that never quite became 
aucton‘tas but is well-known throughout the sect. Vampires feeding together 
make a point of trading sips from their respective vessels with a ritual 
acknowledgement along the lines of “Hot blood that spurted from Abel at his 
time of death, sustain us for the will of the Sabbat.” 
STEALTH 
Packs about to embark on an assignment that requires silence practice the 
Stealth ritus, as do packs that simply wish to test their discipline. Participants 
bite out eachother’s tongues and spit the severed organs into afire. This inflicts 
no lasting damage; the participants each spend a Blood Point to stabilize the 
wound. In some cases the ductus or priest refrains from participating so that he 
can give orders, while in others all pack members join in and communicate 
through hand signals and mental Disciplines. 
SUN DANCE 
This ritus tests the participants’ endurance and courage. The Sun Dance 
ritus always takes place during a full moon. Participants wear frightening 
costumes or body paint, hoping to intimidate others. The participants dance 
from the moment they waken after sunset until sunrise, gyrating around a 
symbolic inscription of a fiery sun. They then attempt to stay wake and in the 
open as long as possible during the new day. A Blood Feast generally follows 
the next night. 
Some packs make provision to rescue participants who become too 
injured to seek shelter, while others don’t. Sect leaders frown on this sort of 
pointless loss of brave members and encourage Sun Dance observers to keep 
bystanders at hand. 
TESTS 
OE P A I N  
All of the various Test of Pain ritae challenge the participants’ ability to 
remain functional in the face of severe pain. Some packs use Tests of Pain as 
part of their competition to choose new leaders; many packs include Tests of 
Pain along with Contrition ritae as punishment. The Trial by Stake is simple 
and widely practiced. The participant to be tested gets staked to a wall by a 
stake through his chest, mounted high enough that his feet don’t touch the 
ground. Depending on the pack, he may remain there until packmates let him 
down just before sunrise, or he may have to tear himself loose and go on to 
perform other tests. The Trial by Fire subjects various parts of a participant’s 
body to flame wielded by the pack priest. The Trial by Gauntlet requires the 
participant to make his way through parallel rows of packmates who beat him, 
sometimes with weapons, sometimes barehanded. 
The range of Tests of Pain is nearly infinite. Pack priests generally develop 
a favored personal repertoire. Use Courage and Self-Control (or Instinct) for 
specific tests when the vampire’s resolve is in doubt. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TRUTH 
REVEALED 
The Truth Revealed ritus hangs on the edge of auctoritas standing; its 
efficacy depends on the ability of the priest administering the ritus. A vampire 
under suspicion of dishonesty writes out a statement with her own blood. The 
priest takes the paper and bums it, usually in a ceremonial censer. If the smoke 
turns black, the statement was false while white smoke indicates truthfulness. 
Even when the priest does nothing special, the ritus produces accurate results 
more often than chance would allow. Sabbat scholars theorize that the 
ceremony taps into the latent mystic powers of the pack united in the search 
for truth. Priests who possess three or more levels of Occult or Rituals may make 
a Mental Challenge against the subject of the inquiry. If the priest succeeds, 
the n’tus always generates the right color of smoke. 
STATUS 
The Sabbat takes Status very seriously indeed. The sect fights wars on all 
fronts, and in time of war, everyone fighting on the same side needs to know 
who gives orders and who carries them out. The war isn’t just political - 
it’s 
religious, involving fundamental questions of right and wrong, who may be 
saved or damned, when the world can or must end and so on. Individuals rise 
through the Sabbat’s ranks on merit, proving themselves physically and 
mentally capable of wielding power. Status Traits honor their past achieve- 
ments and show what others should expect. 
Sabbat members gain Status more readily than most Camarilla members. 
They also lose Status more readily. As noted in Laws of the Night, Revised 
Edition, p. 222, the members of a pack acting in unison can strip a packmate 
of any Status Trait except those associated with matters of fact. See below for 
a summary of common Sabbat Status Traits and the ways Sabbat members 
qualify for them. 
As the descriptions of particular offices emphasize, the Sabbat’s masters 
lead rather than rule. They cannot hand down decrees with impunity; they 
must set the example of courageous action and penetrating insight. The 
religious and political goals of the secret favor pragmatic response. A good 
leader is the one who gets things done. If things don’t get done, or get done 
badly, the leader is leading badly and runs the risk of being deposed. Even the 
eldest master of war and crusade gets little automatic respect. Long lists of past 
honors don’t matter much in the face of tonight’s needs. 
The higher the rank a Sabbat member holds, the more of a proven record 
she must have. Nobody becomes bishop the night after she earns Initiated Status. 
Nobody loses a bishopric overnight in response to a single minor problem or 
allegation from a neonate, either. Deposing a high-ranking officer requires 
verifiable charges. Real failings are easier to prove than fraudulent ones, though 
sometimes trickery does work. The challenges facing the Sabbat from all sides 
generally ensure that every leader does in fact make some mistakes, and rivals 
need only keep a careful tally of the leader’s errors. Rivals also generally strike 
deals with the leader’s enemies or superiors (or both) so that when the current 
leader falls, the right candidate emerges as a plausible replacement. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Camarilla generally sees the Sabbat as a mass of fanatics and 
berserkers only because the true depths of Sabbat sect politics happen where 
outsiders don’t see them. Court and conclave schemes offer no more tangled 
morass of intrigue than the maneuverings around a new bishop’s ascension. 
WHAT STATUS MBANS 
Keep in mind that Status Traits quantify something that’s hazy and 
subjective to characters in the World of Darkness. Status is fluid, personalized 
and subject to change without notice. If you’d prefer to run your chronicle 
without using the mechanics, go right ahead. The reality of Status -superior 
and inferior rank, plus acknowledgement of smart or foolish deeds - 
exists, 
and you can roleplay it out in lots of ways. The rules should serve the chronicle. 
Most particularly, in a sect as open to variation as the Sabbat, you have the 
freedom topresent the world in terms that work for your players and characters. 
STATUS 
EOR SABBAT 
A Sabbat member can have eight Status Traits, plus one per level of Path 
rating. Note that Sabbat Status comes and goes far more rapidly than in the 
Camarilla, see Laws of the Night, p. 222. 
Some Sabbat Status Traits reflect accomplishments that don’t require the 
vampire to hold an office. Important Traits of this sort include: 
Battle-Scarred. The vampire was Wounded or Incapacitated while 
fighting enemies of the Sabbat. 
Blessed, Devoted and Enlightened all mark progress on a Path. A vampire 
with two levels in his Morality earns one of these Traits - 
which one depends 
on the views of his priest and pack about his particular standing. A vampire 
with three Morality Traits is eligible for a second of these Traits, and a vampire 
with four Morality Traits can carry all three. 
Blooded. The vampire killed another vampire in fair combat, and 
observers agree that it was a meaningful challenge (as opposed to a 6th- 
generation Methuselah devouring the 13th-generation childe created last 
night, for instance). 
Enriched. The vampire committed diablerie in accordance with sect 
practice (often because her Path recommends it). 
Initiated. The vampire went through CreationRites and Vaulderie to the 
satisfaction of her new packmates and any higher-ranking vampires overseeing 
the process. 
Undefeated. The vampire has never lost a fair fight or Monomacy. Facing 
overwhelming odds that force flight doesn’t invalidate this Status. 
Storytellers should feel free to define more Status Traits that apply to a 
pack, all the packs in a bishop’s territory or even to the sect as a whole. Just as 
the ignoblis rim supplement the auctoritas rim, “unofficial” Status Traits 
express the concerns of the leaders in a particular region. Make the style of the 
Sabbat in your region matter in Status along with rites and the general tone of 
your chronicle. 
The packmates of a successful leader who steps down in honorable 
circumstances often grant him the Status he held as an officer. It’s a display of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


satisfaction with how he did his work. Superiors generally let these gifts of 
Status stand; removing them shows disapproval almost as directly as a slap in 
the face. 
The Sabbat also defines a number of standard negative Status Traits. (As 
with positive Status Traits, feel free to add more that suit your chronicle.) A 
Sabbat member may possess two of these at any given moment. Recently 
awarded negative Traits displace older ones as far as game mechanics go, 
though Sabbat members retain their memories ofwhat went wrong and can act 
on those memories even without game mechanics prodding them along. A 
vampire can earn the removal of the Trait by twice successfully completing 
whatever task it was he failed at to earn the negative Trait in the first place: 
A failed priest removes Untrustworthy by performing rites correctly twice; a 
Dangerous vampire goes on two hunts without making trouble for packmates 
and so on. 
Dangerous. This Trait goes to vampires who endanger packmates for 
stupid reasons, particularly while on a hunt or otherritus-related mission. Most 
packs only give it to those who do things like shooting packmates or standing 
around to argue with flamethrower-wielding soldiers; strict packs give it simply 
for creating a risky situation. 
Ignorant. The vampire cannot remember some essential tenet of the 
Sabbat as explained to her time and time again. Most often this Trait goes to 
a vampire who says something like “Well, maybe some of the Antediluvians 
are okay.” 
Slow. This Trait goes to any vampire who gets overtaken by humans, 
whether in a pursuit on foot, by vehicles or some more exotic means of travel. 
Untrustworthy. The vampire failed in the performance of some key duty 
of his position. This may go to a priest who “botches” a ritus but may also go 
to some other leader for an explicit violation of his duties. 
Vain (also known as Cocky, Full Of Himself or comparable terms). The 
vampire claims mastery of some field she goes on to fail publicly at, preferably 
in an impressive or even physically dangerous way. This Trait commemorates 
acts of unsuccessful hubris. 
THE PRIVILE~ES 
OE O~EICE 
Higher-ranked officers can exercise the privileges of those beneath them, 
except as noted in each office’s description. Thus archbishops can do everything 
bishops can; cardinals can do everything archbishops can, and regents can do 
everything cardinals can. The Sabbat ranks ducti, priests and abbots equally. 
Templars and prisci occupy special positions somewhat outside the chain of 
command and have only the powers listed in their respective descriptions. 
DUCTUS 
Every Sabbat pack has a ductus, its leader. The importance of the title 
varies from pack to pack. Sometimes the ductus holds real authority, whether 
by fear, charisma or some other means of getting her packmates to do her will. 
In other packs it’s just there because superior officers want someone to blame 
when the pack screws up. A ductus who consistently gets her pack into trouble 
eventually gets destroyed, from above or below. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The ductus calls her packmates to esbat, or pack meeting, in which the 
pack discusses its affairs. Members who’ve earned rewards get them now, and 
members who’ve earned punishments face judgment. The ductus divides up 
responsibilities like haven defense and corpse removal as seems wise to her - 
some ducti reserve jobs for themselves while others spread the load around as 
much as possible. 
The ductus may not be the eldest member of the pack. If she isn’t, she 
needs some other edge, like most ferocious, most skilled in an impressive 
Discipline or best stocked with blackmail information. Most packs go through 
a phase of choosing the most personable or charming member as ductus. A few 
disastrous and wholly avoidable defeats cure the urge. 
When rank becomes absolutely critical, the ductus is considered “more 
equal than” all others in the pack- she has distinguished herself somehow and 
earned responsibility for (and some authority over) the pack, which most ducti 
can bring to bear should a matter of pack policy come into question. The wise 
ductus, of course, listens to her pack, resorting to rank only when others refuse 
to see the strength of her arguments. 
The ductus automatically gains the Status Trait of Feared when taking 
office, and this can never be permanently removed while she remains ductus. 
The ductus appoints and removes the pack‘s priest. 
The ductus can grant or remove permanent Status Traits from pack 
members at a cost of one temporary Status Trait each. Each grant of Status after 
the third permanent Trait costs the ductus one permanent Status Trait of her own. 
It costs nothing at all for the ductus to grant the Status of Initiated to new recruits. 
PACK 
PRIEST 
The priest takes care of his packmates’ souls just as the ductus takes care 
of their bodies. The priest sets the tone for the pack‘s values and priorities. 
What do pack members value most highly? What angers them most? How do 
they deal with losses and setbacks? The priest’s teachings provide the answers. 
The priest must know all the standard rim since the ductus and bishop 
conduct inspections for pack orthodoxy. The priest also has freedom to invent 
new ritae for the pack‘s own use. The popular ones spread, earning favor for the 
priest and the enlightened leaders who let him experiment while unpopular 
ones bring disfavor on the idiot and the fools who let him out of his cage. 
Every pack has at least one priest. Large packs and packs led by ducti who 
really care about the religious side of the Sabbat may have two. If the ductus 
becomes unable to lead, the priest acts as pro tern pack leader until the pack 
chooses a replacement or the bishop appoints a new ductus. Even while the 
ductus leads on other matters, the priest carries a tremendous responsibility. 
He must teach his packmates to resist frenzy and steer them away from 
infernalist temptations. Most priests, though not all, forsake Humanity in 
favor of one of the Paths of Enlightenment. Some priests encourage their 
packmates to adopt the same Path while others encourage any system of 
morality that doesn’t undermine the pack‘s goals. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The priest automatically gains the Status Trait Enlightened when taking 
office, and this can never be permanently removed while the Priest retains his 
position. 
The priest can give or remove the following permanent Status Traits, 
each at a cost of one temporary Status Trait of his own: Blessed, Devoted and 
Enlightened. The priest uses these Traits to mark the rise (and fall) of his 
packmates’ spiritual insight. 
The priest’s performance of the ritae modifies the results available to the 
pack, as discussed on page 140. 
ABBOT 
The office of abbot goes in and out of fashion. In the Final Nights, it’s 
favored mostly by bishops and archbishops who like large packs. In regions that 
appoint individuals to the office, the abbot takes charge of maintaining a 
pack‘s haven and food supply. The abbot must scout out possible locations, deal 
with security threats, find ways to dispose of the bodies and keep the pack rested 
and fit for all their various duties. Converts from the Camarilla describe the 
abbot’s duties as a combination of the work of seneschal and scourge. 
The abbot automatically gains the Status Trait of Loyal when taking 
office, and this can never be permanently removed while she retains her 
position. 
The abbot can ignore one Status held by packmates whose actions 
jeopardize the haven. This only applies to immediate threats, like leading 
police pursuers back to the haven. 
TF iv p LAR/pALAD IN 
Bishops and higher-ranking officers can appoint bodyguards and personal 
agents for tasks that require force and finesse. The Sabbat as a whole maintains 
few standards for the position, not even having a single title for it. Templar and 
paladin refer to the same category of special service. Templars have a variety 
of duties, all related to combat or protection in some fashion. Most look over 
the personal safety of the officer who appointed them. Some monitor pack 
leaders’ performance and intervene to solve problems, then punish the leader 
who screwed up. The Inquisitors employ templars with them as enforcers 
during their travels and trials. 
Templars cannot join the Black Hand. Membership is seen as a conflict 
of interests as the paladins are encouraged to eschew factional agendas. In 
theory, a templar pays attention only to his specific duties at the present time. 
In practice, every templar has other issues in mind as well, and the sect simply 
tries to reduce the unnecessary complications. 
Templars are used extensively by sect leaders, though some may belong to 
packs during periods of inactivity or have been honorably discharged from their 
duties in times when their leaders have no need for bodyguards. Ex-templars 
enjoy widespread respect. Packs in their vicinity compete to recruit vampires 
with a history of such prominent service and to treat them well after recruitment. 
The templar automatically gains the Status Traits of Respected and 
Ominous when taking office, and this can never be permanently removed 
while he retains his position. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The templar can disobey an order from an officer lower-ranked than the 
one who appointed him, as long as it’s disobedience in the line of duty. If the 
templar’s superior refuses to support the templar, then normal Sabbat justice 
takes its course. 
BISHOP 
(ALWAYS OE A S ~ E C I E I C  
CITY) 
The bishop presides over the Sabbat population of a small to mid-sized 
metropolitan region, or an expanse of smaller settlements that doesn’t strike 
Sabbat leadership as big or important enough to warrant an archbishop. Large 
cities without archbishops run under a council of all the bishops in the area. 
Many bishops once served as priests. It’s not a requirement, however - 
skillful ducti also go on to hold bishoprics. Rising to the rank of bishop marks 
a vampire’s entrance into the serious realm of sect politics. New bishops are 
almost always less than two centuries old and generally know only some of the 
matters they must now make decisions about. Priests with profound insights 
into the ritae, for instance, may know nothing about administration and 
security issues while expert warriors may lack any experience in detecting the 
early signs of heresy and infernalism. The council of bishops lets each of the 
new leaders consult with peers and learn through observation. 
Clueless bishops don’t last long. The cardinal of the region oversees the 
bishops’ council, and most cardinals tolerate few serious mistakes. The often 
fractious nature of pack debates means that bishops must constantly intervene 
to forestall disaster while worrying that the wrong action taken or left undone 
could mean their own destruction. A bishop enjoys less maneuvering room in 
which to demand obedience: The bishop must negotiate as well as command. 
A bishop may command as few as two packs, or as many as a dozen. The 
Sabbat tries to keep bishops from getting too overloaded with duties, but the 
ongoing crises sometimes make it necessary. One unlucky attackon a Camarilla 
city can leave a region devoid of leaders above the level of ducti and priests, 
for instance. So can a successful investigation into infernalism (where “suc- 
cess” may involve the conviction and punishment of political enemies who 
weren’t actually dealing with demons). In peaceful times, bishops groom their 
heirs with extensive training and preparation and discussion beforehand with 
archbishops and cardinals about their own plans. In the Final Nights, being 
chosen as bishop more often comes as a complete surprise, with training after 
appointment. 
Bishops answer directly to cardinals, whose justice may have severe 
consequences if an errant bishop refuses to mend his ways. 
The bishop automatically gains the Status Traits of Feared and Proven 
when taking office, and these can never be permanently removed while she 
retains her position. 
The bishop can appoint and remove ducti and priests. 
The bishop can appoint templars. To promote a pack member to templar 
rank, the bishop must spend a temporary Status Trait of her own. 
The bishop may choose to lead ritae in which she participates; she must 
choose an appropriate surrogate when she declines. (Declining too often 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-+ 
i 
e 
suggests cowardice and makes a good start for accumulated charges of derelic- 
tion of duty.) 
The bishop leads the packs under her jurisdiction against the Sabbat’s 
enemies. She can delegate some responsibilities to templars, ducti and chosen 
war leaders, but as with ria, too much refusal or reassignment undermines her 
authority. 
The bishop can strip a Sabbat member of the Status of Initiated in 
response to serious violations of the Sabbat’s governing code. At that point, 
only the individual bonds of Vaulderie protect the outcast from immediate 
destruction. This costs the bishop one temporary Status Trait of her own. 
The bishop can set terms on which roving packs enter her jurisdiction. 
She cannot refuse passage to packs who acknowledge her authority and take 
part in ria; she can restrict their ability to act independently while residing 
in the area. 
ARCHBISHOP 
(ALWAYS OE A S ~ F C I ~ ~ I C  
RFC~ION) 
The archbishop rules over the city, or at least that’s the general idea. The 
cardinal for the region appoints an archbishop to the lead the Sabbat in a city 
the cardinal believes needs a mdre experienced individual in charge or where 
a council of bishops hasn’t done well. 
Archbishops always come from the ranks of bishops. Nobody gains 
responsibility for all the affairs of a city until he’s learned how to handle all 
aspects of Sabbat routine. The new archbishop takes office already solidly 
grounded in Sabbat beliefs and practice. He’s proven himself in battle and 
shown himself capable of attending to his followers’ spiritual needs. He’s 
probably not equally competent in all fields, but he’s at least not so incompe- 
tent that he got punished severely in lower positions. 
The archbishop doesn’t look after the well-being of mortals. Sabbat 
strongholds tend to be blighted, crime-ridden hellholes where nobody notices 
a few more dead bodies. The people of the town live in fear, but are too scared, 
exhausted or depressed to flee. The Sabbat has no tradition of Masquerade: As 
long as Sabbat behavior doesn’t bring down massive mortal retaliation, it’s 
fine. Highly visible displays of vampiric power usually merit punishment - 
not because they’re wicked, but because they’re bad tactics. In the era of mass 
media, the Sabbat has to restrain its more zealous members from behavior that 
wouldn’t have mattered when cities were more isolated. (Some Sabbat 
enthusiasts favor social and technological collapse for precisely this reason.) 
The archbishop sets the tone for his city. 
Most archbishops take office sometime in their second century of unlife, 
and few make it to 300. Competition and the endless war take their toll. A 
handful of archbishops are much older, running back to the Sabbat’s founding 
or even before, and they exercise tremendous authority in the sect regardless 
of their nominal rank. 
Every priest can create ignoblis ritae on her own, and superiors can 
intervene only in cases of extreme doctrinal divergence. The archbishop can 
recommend ignoblis rim that impress him to packs in his jurisdiction and even 
suggest them for elevation to aucton’tas status. In addition, the archbishop takes 
the lead insetting the style of ritual observance for all the packs he leads. Priests 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and bishops act very slowly (if they know what’s good for them) when 
contradicting the archbishop’s preferences for level of formality, aesthetic 
presentation and the like. 
The archbishop is also the spiritual authority of her city. Many archbish- 
ops were pack priests before attaining their positions. Archbishops officiate at 
many of the auctoritas rim of their city’s Cainites, and they often develop 
personal, local or regional ignoblis ritue as well. In the end, the archbishop 
supervises the spiritual, and therefore civic, health of her city. 
The archbishop gains the Status Traits of Feared, Proven and Relentless 
when taking office, and these can never be permanently removed while he 
retains his position. 
The archbishop appoints and removes bishops and lower-ranked 
officers in his jurisdiction. 
The archbishop can create and remove templars; this costs him no 
temporary Status Traits. 
The archbishop can strip a vampire in her jurisdiction of the Status of 
Initiated and grant the Status of Hunted. This costs the archbishop one 
temporary Status Trait of his own when changing the status of a bishop and one 
permanent Status Trait when changing the status of another archbishop or 
superior. Vampires who know that a target is Hunted can use it as a Negative 
Trait while resisting efforts by the outcast to call on Vinculum bonds for aid. 
Casting out an archbishop or cardinal without very good reason leads to the 
offending archbishop’s own destruction. 
The archbishop can temporarily strip priests under his command of one 
or more Status Traits for inappropriate performance of the rime - 
that is, for 
performing them in a style the archbishop doesn’t like. In cases of gross 
deviation, the archbishop may spend a temporary Status Trait to grant the 
Status of Questionable or Unreliable to the priest, and (at the archbishop’s 
discretion) to the ductus and other participants. No Sabbat member may rise 
through the ranks without convincing an archbishop or superior to remove the 
negative mark; it takes heroic displays of merit to earn release unless the 
archbishop himself comes into disgrace, in which case his successor undoes 
most negative grants. 
CARDINAL (ALWAYS O E  A spwmrc RtxjroN) 
What archbishops do for cities, cardinals do for states and whole coun- 
tries. The cardinal coordinates all the archbishops in her jurisdiction, directing 
them as the great war requires. 
Like her subordinates, the cardinal exercises both political and spiritual 
authority. The balance depends on the cardinal‘s own inclinations. Every 
successful cardinal must advance the sect’s goals (or, in areas of particularly 
intense opposition, at least not let the sect’s interests suffer) and see to it that 
healthy religious dispute remains within the bounds of Sabbat orthodoxy. 
Some cardinals emphasize themselves as generals and warriors taking their 
people into heroic battle. Others fancy themselves master tacticians and 
devise cunning plans that their followers carry out. Still others see themselves 
as the guardians of the true Cainite faith, putting up with administrative chores 
as the price of leading the masses toward the ultimate freedom of the soul. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Regardless of her particular style, every cardinal enjoys the mixed fear and 
devotion of her subjects. The vampires she commands must know that she 
punishes failure and rebellion by any means she deems appropriate, up to and 
including Final Death, just as she rewards success and innovation. 
The cardinal bears personal responsibility for the crusades in her region. 
The territory assigned to her includes many cities that the Sabbat does not 
control. She must see to it that they come under the sect’s direction. 
Experienced in the various means ofwarfare, she’s expected to use them all, not 
just the ones she’s personally fond of. A successful crusade usually takes years 
to plan, with reconnaissance (updated constantly), contacts with potential 
allies inside the target zone, as well as contingency plans. The cardinal needs 
to oversee the planning while keeping her (theoretically) devoted followers 
busy enough in the meantime. Inevitably, she must delegate responsibility for 
many aspects of the process, and the failure of her chosen agents generally 
forms the basis of charges for her own removal. 
Most cardinals have been vampires for at least three centuries by the time 
they take office, though there are prominent exceptions. Many cardinals, even 
in the Final Nights, took part in the Anarch Revolt as well as the Sabbat’s 
various civil wars. The successful cardinal has to appease her peers and 
superiors, offering evidence that her unfolding plans make sense and offer a 
reasonable chance of success. Simultaneously, she must rein in her own 
enthusiasm for the sect’s ultimate triumph and keep her followers from 
prematurely ravaging the cities they dominate so thoroughly as to provoke 
mortal response. 
The cardinal’s subjects usually don’t see her often, except during the 
annual ritae and in moments of great crisis when she must take a personal role 
in leadership. Even advocates of individual supremacy need a chain of 
command, and bishops and archbishops handle routine matters. If the cardinal 
gets involved, the situation is by definition unusual and generally unfortunate 
for whoever attracted the cardinal’s attention. 
The cardinal gains the Status Traits of Ominous, Proven and Supen’or 
upon taking office, and these can never be permanently removed while she 
retains her position. 
The cardinal can appoint and remove archbishops (at the cost of one of 
her own temporary Status Traits), templars and lower-ranked officers (at no 
cost to herself). 
The cardinal can remove a vampire’s Initiated Status and impose the 
Status of Hunted without cost to herself. She may also punish priests with the 
removal of one or more Status Traits without cost to herself. 
The cardinal may spend a temporary Status Trait to grant the Status of 
Favored to chosen agents - 
infiltrators, strategists and the like. Anyone who 
punishes or destroys a Favored member of the Sabbat faces automatic Monomacy 
against the cardinal unless there’s an extremely good reason for the action. 
PRISCUS 
The priscus generally has held offices in the past and may in the future, but 
the rank of priscus doesn’t require other position in the Sabbat’s hierarchy. 
Prisci act as advisors to the regent, cardinals and archbishops (and occasionally 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


+c 
i 
t 
to lower-ranked officers). The priscus generally holds a great deal of influence, 
both in the form of favors owed by current officials and in the fundamental coin 
of the sect, respect for individual achievement. 
The priscus sometimes acts independently, with or without the approval 
of the official he’s advising. More often, he provides information and training 
to younger vampires. Above all, the priscus helps the vampire he aids to make 
most effective use of the weaknesses presented by the sect’s enemies of the 
moment. Sometimes the job involves surgical strikes to study military de- 
fenses, sometimes espionage, sometimes ideological warfare to sow confusion 
and plant seeds of thought that the Sabbat can exploit later. Many prisci were 
lords or military strategists before becoming vampires, and their experience 
serves the sect. Often, a crusade’s success or failure depends on vital informa- 
tion, such as what defenses aprince can call upon or which influential vampires 
might sympathize with the Sabbat. This is the priscus’ true purpose: to 
maximize on the flaws of the others through proven strategies. 
The “generation gap” in the Sabbat shows very prominently in members’ 
reaction to prisci. No vampire has ever become a prisci with less than 200 years 
of service to the sect, and most are twice that old. The Sabbat’s elders generally 
feel that prisci are reaping their due reward for long service; younger members 
often think that prisci coast on past glories at the expense of the vampires who 
go out and get things done now. The truth of the matter is that young vampires 
rarely see the prisci in action. Devoted as they are to the regent and her support, 
much of the prisci’s responsibilities keep them out of contact with the foot 
soldiers of the sect. These young Cainites aren’t completely incorrect, however. 
The consistory does resemble an aristocratic “court,” as the vampires who 
comprise it (including somecardinals) play at their own Jyhads. In anutshell, the 
priscus’ role is to ensure the Sabbat’s long-term success through good advice and 
careful planning. Prisci typically maintain the social structure of the Sabbat as 
well - 
a priscus’ patronage is required to become an archbishop, for example, 
and the consistory selects its own members from lesser ranks of the sect. 
The priscus automatically gains the Status Traits of Confirmed, Feared 
and Infamous upon taking office, and these can never be permanently removed 
while he retains his position. 
Only a priscus can appoint or remove another vampire as priscus. This 
costs one of the acting priscus’ own temporary Status Traits and usually 
happens only after all prisci in the area agree. The appointment to priscus rank 
always comes with assignment to a particular Sabbat leader. (The priscus may 
change the affiliation when all parties agree or when the original leader 
perishes or loses office.) 
The priscus can spend a temporary Status Trait to ignore an order given 
by any vampire of lower rank than the one the priscus serves. 
The priscus can use his Status Traits for retests in Mental Challenges 
directly related to the advice he’s giving his leader - 
testing an infiltration 
plan, for instance, or scouting out saboteurs. 
REGENT 
The regent directs the entire sect, drawing on the support of her advisors 
to guide the whole Sabbat toward ultimate victory. In theory, she holds 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


absolute power. In practice, subordinates often distort or just plain “lose” 
orders they refuse to accept, and the regent’s power depends on her personal 
base of support. Ideologically driven young vampires (and a few elders) make 
their rejection of the regent’s authority a point of doctrine: They accept the 
Sabbat’s ideals and feel that no personal leader is compatible with the sect’s 
founding principles. Less thoroughly independent vampires simply don’t trust 
a high and remote commander to understand what their immediate situation 
may require or forbid. 
The regent is necessarily an old vampire, chosen from the ranks of 
cardinals by exhaustive competition, and generally spends much time in 
torpor. The night-to-night governing of the sect depends on how her subordi- 
nates carry out the overall vision she gives them and how much of their own 
goals they mix in. While awake, the regent must spend much of her time 
meeting with sect leaders to hear their reports and lay out the grand strategy 
for coming conflicts. Details come only after multiple layers of filtering, and a 
sensible regent assumes that she doesn’t know everything about what’s going 
on. The routine struggle to preserve her position against rivals also consumes 
a lot of attention, which further requires the scattered limbs of the sect to make 
their own way as best they can. 
The regent’s nightly affairs consist primarily of entertaining sect luminar- 
ies, hearing progress reports, plotting against other vampires (both in the sect 
and out) and deciding which tactical or strategic maneuvers to make. Add to 
this list the incessant cultivation of influences, moving and counter-moving 
to keep one’s enemies at bay, presiding over n’tae and weathering the countless 
intrigues inherent to centuries among the undead. 
The regent gains the Status Traits of Feared, Infamous, Proven and 
Supreme upon taking office, and these can never be permanently lost while she 
retains her position. 
The regent can appoint and remove cardinals at the cost of one of her 
own temporary Status Traits. (In turn, the cardinals acting in unison appoint 
and remove the regent.) She can appoint and remove lesser officials at no cost 
to herself. 
The regent can use her temporary Status Traits for retests in Mental 
Challenges related to her role as sect leader: Detecting plots against her, giving 
instructions and so on. 
TITLES 
What follow are a few of the titles used by the sect, as well as common 
forms of address. While the titles themselves are male, the forms of address 
reflect the bearer’s gender; female forms of address are given in parentheses if 
they differ from the masculine. Players and Storytellers should feel free to 
create their own titles and pack names as well - 
Brother Logan of the Grave 
Revenant Families Ciphers has a certain ring that Logan the Tzimisce from 
Pack Number Three seems to lack. 
REVENANTS 
In the early Middle Ages, a consortium of Tzimisce elders systematically 
infused vitae into the blood of selected families of Eastern European nobility. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Over the course of several generations, the revenant lineages emerged: Human 
beings, mortal men and women, with vastly extended lifespan and innate 
affinities for some vampiric Disciplines. Revenants manufacture a unique 
variation of vitae, sufficient to support their limited abilities even though it’s 
too weak for Cainite purposes. Some theorists believe that magical forces in 
the revenant families’ homeland contribute to maintaining revenant powers; 
arguments on the subject consume many a long night. 
The original experiments produced more than a dozen revenant lineages. 
Some perished during the Inquisition and Anarch revolt. Two merged with 
surviving families through intermarriage and lost any distinct identity. Rumors 
say the Ducheski and Rustovitch lines broke away from the Tzimisce to serve 
other masters. Matching rumors credit Assamites, Setites, Giovanni and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Tremere with creating their own revenant lines. In any event, four revenant 
families serve the Sabbat in the Final Nights. 
The revenant families make Sabbat packs seem humane and psychologi- 
cally balanced by comparison. Incest runs rampant in all of them. So do 
pedophilia, cannibalism and bestiality. Necrophilia and more esoteric vices 
turn up fairly regularly. Revenants who deal with mortal society gravitate 
toward the most extreme political, religious and social views they can find, 
contributing to the monstrous image such groups receive. Many revenants 
follow Paths of Enlightenment rather than Humanity, and they actually start 
off with advantages in this direction. Unlike most vampires, they grow up 
surrounded by the evidence of trans-human forces and powers, and they’re 
sharply aware of how different they are from the mortals around them. A 
revenant may pass for normal more easily than a vampire can simply because 
the revenant has breath and a pulse, but the revenant shouldn’t expect to 
please many people with his perspective on the human condition. 
THE REVENANT 
CONDITION 
In most respects, revenants follow the same rules as other ghouls: assign 
arevenant 6/4/3 Attributes, 5 Abilities, 5 Backgrounds and five freebie points. 
A revenant starts with one Trait in each of the Virtues and divides another five 
points between them. (See “Path,” below, for revenant morality.) Most 
revenant characters are a few decades old. With Storyteller approval, players 
may buy extra age at the cost of one freebie point per full century. While 
revenants naturally acquire many deficiencies of mind, body and spirit, the 
seven-point limit on Flaws and Negative Traits remains in effect for revenant 
characters. Revenants also have the following unique features: 
Vitae. Each revenant produces one Blood Trait of weak vitae per night. 
This is much weaker than Cainite vitae (even that of the thin-blooded). It 
cannot create other ghouls, help in Embracing a drained corpse or create blood 
bonds. It allows the revenant to use his Disciplines, heal injuries and boost 
Attributes temporarily. Each revenant has a Blood Pool of 10 Traits, plus one 
for every full century he’s been alive. Revenants have no generation; they 
cannot Dominate Cainites, cannot diablerize and cannot be diablerized. 
Powers. The revenant family lineage provides each revenant with a set 
of “in-clan” Disciplines and a family weakness comparable to clan weaknesses. 
Each revenant begins with one level in one of the family’s Disciplines and can 
learn more for the “out of clan” costs (4 experience points for basic Disciplines, 
7 for intermediate and 10 for advanced; revenants cannot learn Disciplines 
above the advanced level). A revenant can only learn the first level of each 
Discipline, plus one per full century: a 300-year old revenant can learn the 
second intermediate level of each family Discipline. 
Paths. Each revenant begins with one Trait in a Path (or, occasionally, 
Humanity, if the family allows it). Most revenants progress at about one Trait 
per full century. 
CREATIN~ 
REVENANTS 
The details of revenant family creation vary; no clan does it quite like any 
other. All the various methods draw on common principles, and in terms of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


game mechanics, they all work similarly. Note that these rituals all take a very 
long time to work. They appear in most chronicles as part of the background 
unless the chronicle involves extended downtime. 
Each of the following rituals is an Advanced Thaumaturgical Ritual, 
requiring the usual cost in experience points to learn. Finding a teacher for 
them is generally hard. Very few vampires who know how to create revenant 
families survive in the Final Nights. 
Stimulation of the Male’s Essence 
You work a change in the vitae of a male human who’s been ghouled by 
a member of your clan. The subject male may thereafter mate with a female 
subjected to Stimulation ofthe Female’s Essence (see below). Any offspring of the 
union carry revenant potential. Spend two Blood Traits to enact the ritual, 
plus one per year you maintain the stimulation. 
Stimulation of the Female’s Essence 
You work a change in the vitae of a female human who’s been ghouled by 
a member of your clan. The subject female may thereafter mate with a male 
subjected to Stimulation ofthe Male’s Essence (see above). Any offspring of the 
union carry revenant potential. Spend two Blood Traits to enact the ritual, 
plus one per year you maintain the stimulation. 
The chances of ghouls reproducing are vanishingly small. The participat- 
ing ghouls must win (not tie) a series of three Simple Tests against the 
Storyteller, plus one per generation of the vampire(s) performing the Stimula- 
tion rituals, for a potential fertilization to succeed and come to term. The 
resulting child manifests one Discipline chosen at random from the creating 
clan’s in-clan list, and one chosen at random, generally tuned to some aspect 
of the parents’ psychology. 
Protection of the Revenant Essence 
You reinforce the revenant nature of each child born to properly prepared 
parents, manipulating its vitae to develop more intrinsic sympathy with its 
somewhat vampiric nature. This is an extended process, requiring a full year 
of operation upon and instruction of the child. You must perform the ritual 
before the child reaches puberty, or it reverts to being a normal ghoul. Spend 
two Blood Traits at the consummation of the year-long ritual. Children 
subjected to this ritual retain the two-Discipline limits described above, but 
reproduce more successfully upon mating with their own kind. The partici- 
pants must win (not tie) a series of three Simple Tests against the Storyteller, 
plus a number of tests equal to half your generation. 
Perfection of the Revenant Essence 
This ritual only works on third-generation and later revenants whose 
parents and grandparents were all born as revenants. You perform a final set of 
vitae manipulations that bring the full potential of the revenant into expres- 
sion. Like Protection of the Revenant Essence, this requires a full year with the 
child before it reaches puberty. Spend two Blood Traits at the end of the year. 
If you succeed in the ritual, the child manifests a third Discipline (the first child 
to do so sets the pattern for the family, and all subsequent offspring develop the 
same set of Disciplines) and develops the range of revenant features described 
above. Perfected revenants reproduce fairly easily upon mating with each 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


other; the participants must win or tie three Simple Tests against the Story- 
teller. 
The nature of the rituals vary from clan to clan. Most clans perform 
debased versions of fertility rites when enchanting female ghouls and dark 
oath-swearing rituals involving swords (or impalement) when enchanting 
male ghouls. The Tzimisce sometimes bury children being subjected to 
Protection or Perfection of the Revenant Essence in mounds of corpses for a day 
to infuse a post-mortem spirit and drive out some of the taint of mundane 
existence. 
The process of revenant creation necessarily involves a great deal of 
inbreeding. That’s one reason it takes so long. The vampiric creators must 
constantly weed out the most defective individuals so as to keep the whole 
revenant family from collapsing into disease and madness. The difficulties here 
combine with the naturally low birthrate of potential and actual revenants to 
explain why most efforts at creating revenants end in failure. 
No new ghoul lineages can join a revenant family once the first child 
successfully undergoes Perfection of the Revenant Essence. In the earlier stages, 
fresh ghouls can be brought in through stimulation of their respective essences 
and mated so as to create offspring suitable for Protection of the Revenant 
Essence. Some revenant families, especially the Bratovitches, kidnap and mate 
with outsiders. This doesn’t produce revenant offspring, since the non- 
revenant parent lacks any of the necessary preparatory steps and doing them 
now wouldn’t change anything. It’s just one way to pass the time. They almost 
always destroy the non-revenant offspring in short order, often by feeding such 
children to real members of the family. 
BRATOVITCH 
The Bratovitches are the most rural, not to mention bestial, of the four 
families. They maintain rural estates in very remote countrysides, as far as 
possible from civilization. Within their well-secured boundaries, the 
Bratovitches breed hellhounds and other abnormal creatures with which they 
venture forth to hunt Lupines and the other enemies of the Sabbat. Apart from 
these hunts, Bratovitches generally leave their estates only to act as guides for 
nomadic Sabbat packs and to kidnap brides and studs. 
The family fulfills every stereotype of inbred, homicidal rural monsters 
and adds unique wrinkles of its own. North American Sabbat vampires 
describe Bratovitch enclaves as “like Deliverance, except not so nice” while the 
family’s ancestral holdings in Poland strike visitors as gatherings of cavemen 
with the latest firepower. Bratovitches don’t care what others think about 
them. They like being able to wrestle down every animal they can raise and 
being able to have sex with just about every orifice those wrestled-down 
animals provide. The Sabbat seems to the Bratovitches like a bunch of big 
nasty uncles and aunts - 
neat and impressive but not around that much. 
Most Bratovitches live in rural North America, in mountain valleys and 
long deserted stream channels where their pets have room to graze. The South 
American settlements are mostly new - 
less than a century old - 
and 
growing slowly but steadily. The Polish homestead maintains a fairly constant 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


size, and has largely escaped the social upheavals of the post-Communist era 
since it was never part of the society at large to begin with. 
The family isn’t exclusively composed of hicks, despite being rural. The 
elders include many scholars of vampiric affairs, including some of the 
Tzimisce’s most valuable research assistants on breeding projects. Established 
Bratovitch settlements maintain well-stocked libraries. Bratovitch children 
generally get eccentric and ill-balanced educations, but those who want to 
pursue book lore can develop a first-rate mastery of selected fields. 
No Bratovitches follow Humanity. It just doesn’t work for them. The 
other Paths of Enlightenment all occur with roughly equal frequency, and 
some scholarly minded members of the family preserve Paths that the Sabbat 
generally abandoned long ago. 
Disciplines: Animalism, Potence, Vicissitude 
Weakness: Bratovitches are psychotic and unstable. They take a two- 
Trait penalty in all tests related to resisting frenzy and suffer a one-Trait 
penalty on all social interactions with normal people. 
Hellhounds 
The Bratovitches perform extensive breeding and vitae manipulation of 
dogs to create special war-hounds for the Tzimisce and other members of the 
Sabbat. The art of hellhound creation is a combined Discipline requiring 
mastery of both basic levels of Animalism and Vicissitude, so only Bratovitches 
over 200 can actually create hellhounds from regular dogs. Breeding existing 
hellhounds requires no special Disciplines, just a lot of courage and the ability 
to fix up the inevitable wounds. 
Hellhounds have the following statistics: 10 Physical Traits, no Mental or 
Social Traits, Alacrity and Swiftness (Celerity), Endurance and Mettle (Forti- 
tude) and Prowess and Might (Potence). A hellhound’s bite inflicts two levels 
of aggravated damage, and its claws inflict one level of aggravated damage 
each. A hellhound possesses the equivalent of four levels each of Brawl and 
Dodge for retest purposes. Most hellhounds have the same health levels as 
vampires and 10 Blood Traits, though a few are stronger or weaker. 
Hellhounds come in a variety of breeds, most heavily mixed. Whatever 
their canine ancestry, they look mean now. 
C~RIMALDI 
Before their bargain with the Tzimisce, the Grimaldi family ran merchant 
houses throughout the Italian city-states of the 12th century. They retain their 
flair for business, and are the most “normal” of the remaining revenant families. 
Most of their excesses fall within the general scope of self-indulgent behavior 
on the part of the very, very wealthy. 
Grimaldi children grow up confident that they deserve the best and that 
they’ll get it. They study at the finest schools and play with the most impressive 
toys. As they mature, Grimaldis take on positions of increasing corporate or 
political responsibility. The family knows the dangers of power without 
competence, and family members start their climbs on ladders to power outszde 
family holdings. Once they’ve demonstrated their ability, then they take an 
appropriate place within the systems the family controls. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Grimaldi family retains its connections to Italy; under their own 
name and a dozen other lineages the family’s married into, Grimaldis hold 
offices at city and provincial levels. They sit on the boards of directors for firms 
in many industrial sectors and serve throughout the Roman Catholic hierar- 
chy. There’s no real “center” to the family. Wherever family interests took past 
generations, there’s a current concentration of family influence, from Goa to 
New York. 
This spread of the family serves visible goals as well as a secret agenda 
known only to family elders. The Grimaldi family leaders believe that the 
family survives only because of Tzimisce patronage. Should the Tzimisce ever 
withdraw their protection, forces inside and outside the Sabbat would slaugh- 
ter the family and seize its assets. The elders therefore quietly work on 
contingency plans. Chosen agents negotiate with representatives of the 
Camarilla Ventrue and the Giovanni, discussing the terms under which those 
clans would find the family valuable enough to protect. 
If news of these talks ever became public, the Tzimisce would immediately 
withdraw their patronage and let the slaughter begin, so the elders involved 
keep the matter secret from everyone else. Partly as misdirection, partly simply 
because it makes good sense, they do encourage their heirs to make ties with 
the other Sabbat clans, particularly the newcomers, so as to strengthen bonds 
that might prove useful in future calamities. The negotiating elders also keep 
themselves away from direct contact with Sabbat vampires, to avoid the risk 
of inadvertent revelation. 
Grimaldi traditionally follow the Path of Honorable Accord or the Path 
of Power and the Inner Voice. In every generation, a handful follow the Path 
of Caine as best they can, given their inability to commit diablerie. This 
century, many Grimaldi have chosen to remain on the Path of Humanity, 
much to their elders’ distress. The advocates of the “humane” Grimaldi 
movement explain that in an era of telecommunications, it’s harder to hide 
signs of moral monstrosity. The Paths, the advocates say, reflect the opportu- 
nities and luxuries of a bygone age and are just bad business now. The Tzimisce 
who monitor the family find this development distressing and cultivate 
supporters of less humane strategies in the younger generations. 
Disciplines: Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude 
Weakness: All Grimaldi are blood bound to a Sabbat vampire of bishop 
rank or higher at puberty. The Sabbat started doing this to ensure the family’s 
loyalty in its extensive dealings with mortal society at large. It became a habit, 
a sign of reaching adulthood in the eyes of the family and sect. The Sabbat rarely 
makes use of these blood bonds. The family elders planning for defection 
regretfully regard their heirs bound to Tzimisce officials as acceptable losses: 
Better to sacrifice the individuals blood bound recently enough that they would 
have to obey Tzimisce orders than sacrifice the whole family for their sake. 
OBERTUS 
The Obertuses survive on the basis of knowledge rather than wealth or raw 
power. They deal with the Sabbat at large as little as possible, maintainingregular 
contact only with a handful of Tzimisce scholars. When they become revenants, 
the Obertus family served as librarians and clerics in the northern reaches of the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Byzantine Empire. They congregated in the Tzimisce strongholds in eastern 
Europe for several centuries, then spread to the Americas with the Spanish and 
Portuguese empires. In the FinalNights, most of the family lives in New England 
and Canada’s eastern provinces. The family maintains smaller enclaves in South 
America, particularly in Brazil, and in eastern Europe. 
On all continents, the Obertuses prefer to live in small towns well 
removed from commerce and other distractions. They enjoy the freedom to 
engage in their own pursuits free of distractions, without wishing to be as cut 
off as most Bratovitches. The Obertus family ethos promotes stable, secure, 
comfortable living conditions as the foundation for the exhaustive, perenni- 
ally innovative search for secret knowledge. Obertuses compete with each 
other to understand the unseen things of the world, all the hidden forces that 
shape the world outside mortal perception. Some enclaves train generation 
after generation to study a single subject, like poltergeists or the cryptozoology 
of suburbia; others try to encompass under one roof a wide range of expertise. 
The Tzimisce find little of this knowledge directly useful but appreciate the 
value of basic research. The next tremendously useful weapon in the War of 
Ages could appear in almost any context - 
after all, the Vinculum was once 
just a theoretical exercise in blood magic. 
The Obertus elders have a secret project of their own, more devious and 
independent than the Grimaldi elders’ scheme. The elders believe that 
revenants, and in particular Homo obertus, constitute anew species destined to 
replace Homo sapiens. The first evolutionary steps have been artificial, driven 
by Tzimisce manipulation. The Obertuses must find some way to make the 
revenant transformation happen naturally, or at least without requiring 
vampiric participation. To establish a proper context for this master goal, the 
family elders sponsor covert examination of many variations on the Embrace 
and ghouling. They capture Camarilla and independent Kindred from time to 
time and (more rarely) arrange the disappearance of Sabbat vampires who go 
to ground in Obertus-controlled towns. So far, results are patchy, consisting 
mostly of long lists of ways to make an Embrace or ghouling fail. The elders feel 
hopeful that the key breakthrough may come at any time. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Obfuscate, Vicissitude 
Weakness: The Obertuses were bred for intellectual ability without 
regard for stability, and are prone to psychological disorders. Each Obertus 
suffers at least one derangement of an intellectual nature. Most Obertuses 
suffer from the Obsessive/Compulsive Derangement, but characters may 
develop others with Storyteller approval. 
ZANTOSA 
The Zantosafamily were and remain aristocrats, wealthy lords of the social 
scene. They remain prominent in Eastern Europe and spread, over the 
centuries, across the Atlantic. The family’s leaders never cared much for direct 
power and worried about money only so far as necessary to maintain their 
lifestyle. Lifestyle itself has always been the Zantosa concern. The Zantosas 
exist, they tell each other, to widen the boundaries of human experience until 
one day they’ll have done everything a human being can do. They keep the 
people around them stirred up in pursuit of the new, always seeking some fresh 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sensation not yet made routine and therefore safe. The Zantosas set the 
standards others try to imitate. 
Living on the edge carries certain risks, of course. Some Zantosas lose their 
standing after getting caught in some behind-the-scenes crime like blackmail 
or graft. Some members of the family choose the wrong partners for their 
exploits and face the legal and social hassles that come with accusations of 
pedophilia, necrophilia, sexual assault and other behavior most people haven’t 
yet learned to accept. Many Zantosas become so addicted to a particular habit 
(or drug) that they become boring, locked in asingle routine, no longer capable 
of or interested in innovation. In particularly tragic cases of self-inflicted 
tedium, the family quietly slaughters the offender to impress upon relatives the 
importance of remaining the master of one’s habits rather than their servant. 
Few of the Zantosas’ social partners trust the family, and like all experimenters, 
the family must avoid becoming so obnoxious that they lose the audiences they 
need to complete the great work of experience. 
The Zantosas have dealt with several of the clans from their first generations 
as revenants. The Toreador antinibu tend to like the Zantosas, trading insights 
and taking turns acting as subjects in group activities. The Ventrue antihibu 
regard the Zantosas as particularly decadent jesters who reinforce the antihibu 
interest in preserving old power relationships inside new social forms. More 
recently, the Serpents of the Light and the Zantosas have entered into close 
association, mingling cultural, religious and purely aesthetic explorations. 
It’s been several generations since the presence of Zantosas could make or 
break a party in New York or Prague. Most of the family members now exist in 
fairly small sub-communities, dealing only with a handful of lineages that share 
the Zantosa fascination with extremes. Some Zantosas of the last two genera- 
tions build elaborate false genealogies for themselves and then enter into high 
society as newcomers interested in “picking up the Zantosa legacy where those 
old fellows left off.” The family elders frown on this, fearing that pointless 
deceptions could crumble and do harm to elaborate deceptions that actually 
do advance family concerns. Zantosa children learn from their nannies and 
mentors never to waste an action: If it’s worth doing, it’s worth doing in a way 
that makes an impact on someone. 
The New York branch of the family suffered a severe setback in 1997, one 
that’s had repercussions elsewhere. Two dozen family members, all in good 
standing with the family (that is, practicing the right sorts of perversions and 
degradations), suddenly found themselves denounced by family elders and 
executed. Sabbat inquiries produced the explanation that the elders uncov- 
ered a nest of infernalists. The Zantosas frown on dealing with devils since 
devils tend to want to impose their own aesthetics and interfere with the family 
pursuits. The Sabbat Inquisition apparently found the answer satisfactory 
since no vampiric investigation took place. Similar nests of infernalists turn up 
from time to time in other Zantosa communities; in each case, the Sabbat 
Inquisition pronounces itself satisfied with the Zantosas’ own response. 
Only the family elders know the real story. From the very beginning of the 
family’s revenant experience, the elders have guarded the body of a Tzimisce 
elder in very deep torpor. The body came with the first sizable contingent of 
Zantosas to settle in New York and slept away the centuries there. One night, 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


without any sort of warning or disturbance, the body disappeared. The 
infernalist story is an after-the-fact explanation for mysterious deaths inflicted 
on elders who helped tend the body at some point. Quiet inquiries with the 
Obertus (a painful matter for the Zantosas, who hate to admit the usefulness 
of anyone so boring) and occultists outside the Sabbat produce no clues as to 
the identity of the presumably reawakened vampire. 
Most Zantosas pursue the Path of Cathari; many succeed in maintaining 
very high ratings in it, thanks to the family’s accumulated wisdom in such 
matters. More necrotically inclined individuals pursue the Path of Death and 
the Soul. One rural Zantosa enclave whose members deal regularly with the 
Bratovitches specializes in the Path of the Feral Heart, to the embarrassment 
of their relatives. No Zantosa admits to practicing the Path of Caine, despite 
persistent rumors of Noddists in the family and the demonstrable use of blood 
and vitae for more recreational ends. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Presence, Vicissitude 
Weakness: Nothing in Zantosa family training prepares its members to resist 
interesting temptations. Whenever a Zantosa faces what looks like an interesting 
and intense pleasure, she must make a SelfConrrolor Instinct test, generally against 
a difficulty of three Traits, to avoid wandering off to pursue it instead of what she 
had been working on. Zantosas cannot spend Willpower to resist supernatural 
enticements as long as there’s a pleasurable component involved (bear in mind 
that Zantosa notions of “pleasure” aren’t like most people’s). 
SZLACHTAAND 
VOHZD 
The Tzimisce excel in the creation of highly specialized ghouls. Clan lore 
includes the techniques for creating the slzuchta (guardian ghouls) and the 
vohzd (war ghouls). The Tzimisce make no particular effort to keep their 
techniques secrets; the requirements, including Vicissitude and extensive 
practice, exclude anyone outside the clan. A non-Tzimisce would-be student 
who wants to learn may or may not meet with a favorable response, depending 
on the whim of the Tzimisce elders she meets, but it’s not usually due to a need 
for secrecy. 
The processes for both slzuchta and vohzd creation require the vampire to 
know Bonecraft and to possess at least two levels of the Crafts Ability with a 
focus in Body Crafting. 
PLAYINC~ 
SPECIALIZED 
~ H O U L S  
Neither szlachta nor vohzd make suitable player characters. Specialized 
ghouls undergo a level of distortion and transformation that renders them 
effectively mindless in normal terms - 
they possess even less independent 
consciousness than someone subjected to Conditioning. Specialized ghouls 
should only be Storyteller characters, and when they do appear in your 
chronicle, emphasize their alien nature. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


SZLACHTA 
The slzachta serve as soldiers, bodyguards and sentries. Each szlachta 
emerges from its creator’s laboratory unlike any other, since the process 
requires handwork. Some features are fairly standard despite the variations. 
A typical szlachta has spikes, armored plates or both. The Tzimisce 
creating the ghoul removes all unnecessary fat, or transfers it to areas where 
extra padding might come in handy, such as over vital organs. Most Tzimisce 
replace the ghoul’s entire skin with something tougher while some add on extra 
layers to create whole-body calluses or otherwise increase the ghoul’s capacity 
to resist wounds. Almost all s ~ & ~ h t a  
possess armored sensory organs with 
increased sensitivity, so as to make better observers. 
To reduce the ghoul’s automatic resistance to modification, most Tzimisce 
starve their subjects before setting to work. Some creators outright attack their 
creations-to-be, using injury to further weaken the target body’s defenses. 
Each of the following transformations requires a successful Mental Chal- 
lenge against the target’s current health levels (the creator may use Body 
Crafting for a retest) and a Physical Challenge with Bonecraft. 
Armor. The target gains one health level of all-body armor or two levels 
of armor for one specific part of the body (head, torso, arms, etc.). If the creator 
wins both challenges, the armor adds no Negative Traits; if the creator ties, the 
armor works as usual but the target gains the Negative Trait ofHeavy. After the 
third level of Heavy, the s&chta can carry no more armor. 
Organic Weapons. The target does an extra level of lethal damage with 
each strike in hand-to-hand combat. Depending on the creator’s taste, the 
weapons might be spikes, fangs, exuded poisons or something else. (Note that 
most poisons don’t work against vampires; the creator should plan based on the 
circumstances she expects her creation to face.) If the creator ties either 
challenge, the target gains the Negative Trait of Clumsy; after the third level 
of Clumsy, the target cannot engage in tasks requiring fine manipulation and 
can receive no more weaponry. 
Enhanced Sense. The target gains the equivalent of one level of the 
Acute Sense Merit (see Laws of the Night, p. 112). If the creator ties either 
challenge, the target also gains a 2-Trait penalty on all uses of one of its other 
senses. A creator attempting to compensate for such deficiencies must use this 
process to undo the flaw before attempting to boost the impaired sense. This 
requirement can, given bad luck, turn into an endless spiral of sensory 
degeneration. It’s one of the most common reasons creators destroy otherwise 
satisfactory szlachta. 
Enhanced Speed. The target can take two extra steps during combat 
movement. This change involves lengthening the target’s legs and changing 
the ratio of upper limb to lower limb length as well as modifying leg and hip 
joints. If the creator ties either challenge, the target becomes imbalanced and 
must win or tie a Simple Test to avoid falling over when it comes to rest after 
a period of motion. Each additional level of this complication requires the 
target to win or tie another Simple Test when stopping. After developing the 
need to perform three Simple Tests every time it stands still, the target can 
receive no more speed enhancements. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Programmed Ability. This modification is a combination of preparing 
specialized physical features and mental condition; the creator must know 
Conditioning as well as the basic requirements for creating szlachta. The target 
gains two levels in one ability related to its basic nature, such as a weapon skill 
or Alertness. If the creator ties either challenge, the target also develops the 
Fugue Derangement (see Laws of the Night, p. 213). Each additional level of 
this complication subtracts 1 from the target’s Mental total for the challenge 
to resist the fugue state. After getting a 2-Trait penalty, the target cannot 
receive further ability programming. 
The creator can attempt one modification per night, plus one for each level 
of Body Crafting she possesses beyond the two required to make srlachta at all. 
SZLACHTA 
IN PLAY 
Si&chta remind young vampires of H.R. Geiger paintings come to life. 
Guardian ghouls lack most normal facial features and cannot easily express the 
limited range of emotions they do feel. Creators who turn captured mortals 
into srlachta and send the new ghouls as weapons against the mortals’ allies do 
make sure to leave a few distinctive features visible. People who knew the 
s7Jahtarecognize it upon succeeding in a Static Mental Challenge against four 
Traits. The horror of identifying a former friend or ally under these circum- 
stances requires a 3-Trait Courage test to resist the impulse to flee. 
Unless you happen to have players who are skilled contortionists, it 
takes costuming, props and a measure of imagination to portray szlachta in a 
game session. Dark clothing, presented in low light, helps hide the player’s 
own body contours. Also, never underestimate the effects of careful posture 
- 
look into how stage actors portray characters like the Elephant Man and 
Shakespeare’s Richard 111. 
VOHZD 
Few vampires make vohzd anymore, just as few vampires build castles 
anymore. The titanic war ghouls come from an age when the Tzimisce strode the 
Carpathian landscape as absolute masters, free from fear of mortal hunters or 
even vampiric rivals. In the age of organized vampire hunters, satellite imagery 
and portable anti-tank weaponry, war ghouls create more problems than they 
solve. Since vampires seldom completely abandon any practice once they take 
it up, a handful of creators do continue to make vohzd in the Final Nights. 
Almost all vohzd are team projects. It takes time and effort to reassemble 
components into the final form, and teamwork reduces the risk of components 
going bad, suffering accidental damage or otherwise wasting the creator’s work. 
The construction of a war ghoul begins with at least 15 regular ghouls, 
whether human or animal. The creators force them all to drink each others’ 
blood in a Vaulderie-like ritual. (If you need rules for this, require the creators 
to win Mental Challenges with Intimidation or some Discipline suitable for 
issuing simple commands.) The creators then disassemble their targets with 
Vicissitude, sometimes using Thaumaturgy for assistance. To simulate the effects 
of Vicissitude surgery, keep track of the damage that the creators would 
normally inflict with Fleshcraft and Bonecraft attacks. The target takes no 
actual damage from this manipulation; when it reaches zero health levels, it 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


comes apart in surgically tidy components. These pieces of ghouls generally 
survive in storage for about one night per level of the creator’s Body Crafting 
ability - 
less in adverse conditions, more in places with provision for storing 
organic materials like meat. 
Vivisected ghouls provide one component each for sensory purposes - 
each head yields up just one useful set of sensory organs- along with two useful 
limb components, and a number of “general” components equal to half their 
health levels. General components provide the skeleton, musculature and 
internal organs necessary to make the new amalgamated organism work 
properly. 
“Component” as a term reflects the Tzimisce attitude toward their work. 
When describing these pieces of people and animals in play, reinforce the idea 
that each component is a still-living piece of an organism. It pulses slowly; eyes 
stare blindly; fingers and toes twitch without conscious control. The mystical 
properties of Vicissitude and Body Crufting produce seamless barriers of flesh 
over the points where one body part was severed from another. The resulting 
masses shouldn’t live at all. Storytellers should feel free to require Conscience or 
Courage checks for bystanders to remain calm in the presence of vohzd creation 
in progress. Prop cards don’t do justice to the experience. Very minimal props 
can add a lot, such as cardboard boxes covered with appropriate photographs 
to illustrate the body parts involved. 
Once the creators have their initial set of components, they begin 
reassembling bits. The vohzd automatically develops Potence and Fortitude 
equal to twice the highest level possessed by any of the ghouls providing 
components. Its blood pool also equals twice the largest blood pool of any of 
the component ghouls. Vohzd generally move at half normal human speed 
(one step walking or two steps running per action). 
The creators must decide on a single individual to act as the vohzd’s 
controller. The war ghoul has scarcely any mind to speak of, and responds only 
to commands of three words or less from the controller. Tzimisce war leaders 
generally starve their vohzd before a battle and then point the hungry war 
ghouls at enticing vitae- or blood-rich targets. The vohzd’s mindless, alien 
condition makes it immune to Animalism, Dominate and Presence. 
Each of the following transformations requires the creator to make a 
Physical Challenge with Bonecraft to insert the components correctly. Failure 
renders the component useless; the creator must discard it and try again. 
General framework. Two general components fused together give the 
vohzd one health level. Keep track of the total health levels of the work in 
progress and follow this progression: Healthy, Bruised, Wounded, Incapaci- 
tated, Healthy, Bruised, Wounded. A vohzd with five health levels (from 10 
general components) has Healthy, Healthy, Bruised, Wounded, Incapaci- 
tated. A vohzd with 10 health levels (from 20 components) goes all the way 
through the cycle and starts over again, ending up with Healthy, Healthy, 
Healthy, Bruised, Bruised, Bruised, Wounded, Wounded, Wounded, Inca- 
pacitated. The vohzd must have at least as many components dedicated to 
general framework as it has components allocated to specific purposes. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood Pool. One general component dedicated to the task of holding 
blood increases the vohzd’s blood pool by one. 
Disciplines. Two sensory components taken from ghouls who knew 
Fortitude or Potence provide the brain matter and lingering soul traces to raise 
the vohzd’s level of one of those Disciplines by one. 
Movement. Four limb components increase the vohzd’s walking speed 
by one step per turn, up to a maximum of twice normal human speed. Yes, these 
are multiple legs. 
Arms. Two limb components provide the material for one arm and the 
necessary attachments. This is a standard human-type arm, doing one level of 
bashing damage. Each extra limb component included in this step can add one 
of the following: The ability to inflict Lethal damage, the ability to inflict one 
extra health level of damage or increasing the limb’s reach by three feet. 
Armor. Three general components provide enoughraw material to give 
the vohzd one level of armor, as long as it has 10 or less health levels. Add 
another two general components for every 10 health levels after that. 
Each creator can attempt one modification per night, plus one for each level 
of Body Crafting she possesses beyond the two required to make vohzd at all. 
VOHZD 
IN PLAY 
Vohzd horrify everyone who sees them, and it takes time to get used to 
them. Anyone seeing a vohzd for the first time must make a Courage test against 
five Traits to avoid running in terror. Each time a character succeeds in 
overcoming her fear of the war ghoul, reduce the difficulty of future tests by one 
Trait; when the difficulty falls to zero, the character finally takes such things 
for granted. A point of Willpower allows a retest on these challenges. 
Vohzd often include multiple arms spread more or less evenly around the 
main torso. A vohzd gets one attack to its front, one to its rear, and one to one 
side or the other. Depending on how much of a head its creator gave it, these 
labels may be fairly arbitrary; assume that “front” is the direction the vohzd last 
moved, in the absence of more permanent physiological markers. Each arm 
beyond the second on that side of the vohzd adds two bonus Traits in combat; 
each leg beyond the second adds one bonus trait in close combat. 
Presenting vohzd in your chronicle is very easy to do poorly. A bunch of 
players under a sheet and shuffling around seldom looks horrifying. Expect 
players to need to use their imagination to fill in the gaps, whatever you decide 
to do. A group of players wearing similar dark colors, roped together or moving 
in coordination and given the benefit of backlighting can create a startling 
impression if nobody gets the time to examine them in detail. Mannequin parts 
are unfortunately expensive, but if you have connections to someone in retail 
supply or other suitable source, extra arms and legs waving at the edges of the 
mass can be very startling, particularly if they’re clothed like the people 
holding them. 
Keep in mind that vohzd are big. Their creators store them in barns and 
remote valleys, not closets or phone booths. As far as your game space allows, 
arrange a suitably large area for the vohzd to occupy. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Storytelling a Sabbat chronicle is something that should be approached with 
more preparation than average. Sabbat material is frankly adult, filled with 
shocking themes, disturbing sights and a streak of amorality that can be misun- 
derstood without proper acclamation. This is not the place for the inexperienced 
or immature. 
Because the vampires of the Sabbat are seen as callous, inhuman beasts, they 
are often given minor plots in live-action roleplay, complete with a three-digit 
body count. While such games are occasionally amusing in the same way that, say, 
a shoot ‘em up arcade game is amusing, they are rarely a basis for a long-term 
storyline. The Sabbat can be challenging to portray, but challenges provide some 
of the most rewarding play. In this chapter, we’ll be giving you some ideas and 
suggestions to help you run your own Sabbat chronicles. 
If you are about to venture into the realm of Storytelling for the first time, 
you will certainly find it helpful to read the chapter on Storytelling in Laws of 
the Night if you haven’t already done so. It will give you all the basics about 
bookkeeping, theme, mood, structure and plot, and it will help you make more 
sense of what you’ll be reading here. For those who are already familiar with the 
ins and outs of Storytelling, prepare to take the next step into something a little 
larger. 
THE 
REALLY IMPORTANT 
S ~ ~ f i f i  
It should go without saying that Sabbat chronicles delve into the darkest 
parts of the psyche. This is the place where you start conjuring up some very nasty 
demons, figuratively speaking - 
complete disregard for human life, glorying in 
atrocity and an utter lack of what are considered normal values such as compas- 
sion. Storytellers in Sabbat chronicles take on more than just plots and themes. 
It is vitally important for a Storyteller to always be in touch with her players and 
doubly so with Sabbat material. Is one player getting unnerved by the material, 
another one taking things a little too seriously, or are there Masquerade problems? 
Guess what - 
they’re yours to deal with. 
Players who are getting unnerved by Sabbat material can be fairly easy to spot - 
they have trouble joining in the games or rim, even when their characters are being 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ridiculed, or they seem enthused to be with the game until things start getting hairy. 
Touch base with the player inquestion and ask if things are all righr. Don’t pry or push, 
but make it clear that you’re open to what he has to say. Once you learn what the 
problem is, ask him for suggestions about what he’d like to do about it. Consider other 
things for the player to do- it’s unlikely he wants to chuck the whk game, just parts 
of it. Is he interested in the spirituality and social interaction? Encourage him to hang 
out with the Noddists and priests. Is someone going out of her way to harass him? 
Discipline the errant player. Is someone handling sensitive material, such as religion 
or sex, inappropriately? Lay down the law on treating the game with respect. This is 
supposed to be fun, and when players are uncomfortable about the material, then they 
aren’t having fun. 
On the flip side, there are those who think a Sabbat chronicle is an excuse 
to go completely wild. These are more than just “gun bunnies.” They do 
everything in their power to shock their fellow players, from juvenile gross-outs 
to excessive profanity to profoundly insulting others’ beliefs. Not a few take up 
infemalism for fun and profit and take pleasure in killing other characters. When 
confronted with their behavior, they claim that they’re merely acting in the spirit 
of the chronicle- it’s adult material, they say, and if you can’t stand the heat, you 
better stay out of the kitchen. Such behavior is hardly the hallmarkof the mature 
player. Don’t tolerate this a minute longer than you see it. Such behavior is 
dangerous to your other players and to your chronicle, both from a story point of 
view andfromamoremundaneview.Youdon’twantthese 
jokers tobe whatnon- 
players see of your game. If they can’t treat mature material in a mature fashion, 
don’t hesitate to throw them out. 
Lastly, there are those matters which are sometimes termed “Masquerade” 
problems. This is when the real world and the game world collide, with unpleasant 
results. A case in point occurred at a convention where a Sabbat chronicle was 
being run. Two players, in character at the time, were overheard by a maid 
discussing the vivisection of a hotel worker. The maid was naturally disturbed and 
brought it to the attention of management, who subsequently came looking for 
the convention staff. People don’t treat such things as murder, torture and the like 
lightly, not in these days of domestic terrorism. Be extremely careful where you 
play and where you discuss your game. Sabbat themes and material sound 
frightening to the average listener and can lead to panic when people aren’t 
entirely aware of the situation. 
These aren’t meant to put a damper on your fun; they’re meant as a safety net 
so you can keep having fun without getting hurt. Respect the material and your 
players, and everyone will have a good time. 
SABBAT 
CHRONICLES 
The plots, themes, goals and drives of a Sabbat chronicle are very different 
from those of a Camarilla story. Sabbat ideology demands a more straightforward 
approach to matters - 
at least, on the surface. A Sabbat chronicle is not merely 
a morass of combat in an urban hellhole setting with some “nasty bits” thrown in. 
A Storyteller who approaches it thusly is cheating the players (and herself) of the 
chance to tell some very unique and exciting stories. 
ERESH MEAT 
One of the most rudimentary and yet compelling elements of the Sabbat is 
the theme of brotherhood. All Sabbat characters are expected to be, or to soon 
become, members of a pack. These packs are small cells of individuals, pressed 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


together through circumstance and, occasionally, choice, dedicated to their own 
goals as well as the goals of the sect. Though the Vaulderie and Vinculum provide 
some artificial ties of closeness, there are still squabbles between “brothers and 
sisters,” nodifferently thanamong mortal siblings (with the exception that mortal 
siblings don’t call on supernatural powers to put someone through a wall for 
disagreeing with them). 
When a new character enters the chronicle, some thought must be given 
toward her “pack.” Is she nomadic? Founded? Is she the lone survivor of a recently 
fallen pack? It’s extremely unusual for a Sabbat to be without a pack for more than 
a few weeks. During that time, characters should be antsy and strained. Only 
through the repetitive bond of the Vaulderie are they safe from the overwhelming 
power of the Antediluvians and their blood bond. 
The pack structure allows you a convenient method to integrate new 
characters into the venue. By placing an inexperienced player in an established 
pack, the Storyteller allows the pack to teach its “fledgling,” and the new player 
is instructed by more experienced players. If one member of the pack has a reason 
to be involved in an ongoing plot, the rest of the pack will almost certainly become 
involved - 
willingly or not. 
INTRIgUB 
AlthoughtheSabbat is theoretically bound togetherwithasingleoverwhelming 
blood bond, the actual strength of that bond varies from individual to individual - 
even from month to month. At the moment when a character is relying on the total 
support of their pack, a traitor may break through the c o h e s  of the Vinculum and 
stab the metaphorical knife into the back of those who trusted him. Remember, also, 
that the Sabbat is a place of brotherhood, however enforced, and it can hamstring as 
often as it helps. At the moment when a character’s revenge is about to be complete, 
he could find himself unable to strike. 
A total disregard for mortal life does not mean a disregard for all life. 
Characters should have goals, dictated by their backgrounds, their Paths and, 
more importantly, by the constraints of the sect. As the game develops, look for 
plot points that can create intrigue between characters. Are there two Noddists 
looking for the same, one-of-a-kind occult item? Do you have several members on 
the Path of Power and the Inner Voice striving for position and rank? There’s 
nothing wrong with conflicting goals, so long as one remembers that loyalty to the 
sect should always come first - 
or at least, it should always appear to come first. 
If you seem to be loyal, then you are treated as such. If you appear to be the 
strongest, or the most capable, then your position is more stable. It’s all about 
appearances, from the archbishop trying to look like she’s completely in com- 
mand to the newest Pander recruit who’s trying desperately to show off how tough 
she is. 
The Sabbat is not merely asect offanatics anxiously awaiting thenext excuse 
to start a killing spree. It is a motley of liars, manipulators and powermongers who 
further their personal goals and ambitions in the name of “the good of the sect” 
amidst devout believers and wild-eyed rowdies. Making this key distinction 
changes a Sabbat game from an excuse for mass slaughter to something with much 
more depth. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


SETTING 
Many Sabbat games begin with the description of a horrific setting. No one 
knows how anything got there or why, but it’s assumed that this is how things are done 
in the Sabbat: Y“Yu enter the chamber and see the mutilated bodies of five adults 
hanging from the ceiling. Their blood drains slowly into a large pool below. The 
dripping is the only sound you hear.” While the inhumanity of the Sabbat is a theme 
that should be brought out, the players are going to become more jaded than their 
characters unless some real thought is put into the backdrop. 
Think creatively. Why is this particular scene here? What purpose does it 
serve? What should the characters and players be getting from this?Consider the 
scene described above. If thrown into the middle of the evening to “liven things 
up,” it may go to waste -just 
one more act of mindless brutality to which you 
don’t want your players to become jaded. On the other hand, it can serve your 
story by enhancing some part of it. Perhaps it’s the remains of an interrupted Blood 
Bath (so where is the recipient of the bath?). Better still, perhaps it’s an illustration 
of a particular Sabbat bishop’s cruelty or of some Toreador antitn’bu’s latest work. 
Fromaphysicalstandpoint, a Sabbat game need not mean that allyour games 
take place in grungy alleys or nightclubs of thundering music. The chosen 
gathering place may reflect the bishop’s taste for meditative silence and study, or 
a pack may be hosting the gather and has set the tone of the place by putting out 
trophies of their successes and achievements. Set up lights with red bulbs and lay 
out dark bed sheets to indicate pools of blood when it’s time for a more frightening 
scene, or set up colored cellophane to show where aceremonial bonfire is burning. 
The Sabbat has many opportunities for exciting and involving storylines 
that can be easily inserted into a long-term campaign. Below, you’ll find some 
examples and ideas to get you started. These are by no means the only stories you 
can tell in this venue. Use your creativity, your imagination and the stories that 
your players write as backgrounds for their characters to create and intricate and 
involved setting. Does one of your Brujah antitn’bu have a mortal enemy in the 
Camarilla? What if the Lasombra’s old flame on the other side had become 
attached to that character, but neither party knows? 
There are several themes that are most appropriate for a Sabbat chronicle and 
can be highly useful when planning a story for your assembled characters. Theme 
is the most important part of your story- it is the organizing principal, the thread 
that ties together the errant parts into a unified whole. However, the Sabbat is a 
game about the absence ofhumanity and agroupof individuals who have willingly 
given up their humanity. Alter common themes to accurately reflect the setting. 
Here are a few examples, using the themes mentioned in Laws of the Night, 
with some slight modifications: 
h
e
 
-The Sabbat is usually no place for love, although the heightened blood 
bond of the Vinculum can substitute. Love, even if created by an artificial source, 
can alter actions and create tension. What would we sacrifice for love? When the 
Vinculum becomes too strong, will a pack willingly separate in order to follow the 
commands of their leader? Worse, what if a packmate was guilty of some terrible 
crime against the sect? Would his loyal (and loving) packmates cover up the crime 
or answer for it themselves in order to free him? 
THEMES 
NEW AND OLD 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Hate - 
Hatred runs strong in the Sabbat, particularly when it is thrust 
outward, toward the members of the Camarilla and other threats. How can hate 
be used to drive the character’s motivations? What if two individuals who hated 
one another were forced to Vaulderie and gained a blood bond to one another? 
How will they resist the call of blood in order to fulfill their grudge? 
Betruyal- Whena member of the sect breaks the rules, it is the responsibility 
of the entire Sabbat to hunt her down. Use betrayal themes to bring warring 
factions together and give them a single enemy to dedicate their combined efforts 
against. At what price will acharacter’s betrayal affect those who were once close 
to her? 
Revenge - 
Any creature as long-lived as a vampire is bound to have made 
enemies, both inside and outside of the sect. When those enemies come to take their 
revenge, they will not stop at the individual, but will seek to annihilate those closest 
to her as well. Further, when a pack is formed, the enemies of a single member 
become enemies of the pack, and, as such, can provide asingle goal for the characters 
to attain together. The pack is a strong support for player interaction, particularly 
when your game relies heavily on the theme of revenge. 
Rebellion - 
Rebellion is one of the most dangerous themes in the Sabbat. 
The various political factions can be used to great advantage, forcing characters 
to choose between their loyalty to the sect and their dedication to the ideal of true 
freedom. Unlike the Camarilla, where revolutions are usually bloody affairs, the 
Sabbat must handle them with increasing delicacy and intrigue, especially where 
the Vinculum is concerned. 
Morality -Alternately, 
the theme of morality can be the theme of anti- 
morality, and the price paid for escaping the bonds of humanity. What happens 
when the leadership of a certain area forces characters to accept an alternate Path 
of Enlightenment? What if the chosen Path of the archbishop is Cathari in a 
region predominated by Power and the Inner Voice? Who determines the correct 
Path and to what effect? 
BUILD IN^ A STORY 
All good stories come in stages, from the carefully plotted beginning to the epic 
ending of the tale. Many of these focus heavily on conflict, either interpemnal feuds 
or full-scale wars, and in the Sabbat, such conflicts are often quite violent. Because 
Sabbat chronicles can be violent in nature, players and storytellers alike should be 
prepared to adjust their plotlines for a constantly changing character base. Still, the 
basic plot structure -opening, climax and denouement - 
provides milestones for 
the story that you’re creating, whether the story’s climax comes in the form of a 
valuable clue or the defeat of an enemy’s guardian. 
One good example of a Sabbat storyline, particularly one in which both sides of 
the story can be played, is the siege. Whether a Sabbat force has decided to wrest a city 
from Camarilla (or anarch) control, or the Sabbat is fighting against a Camarilla 
invasion of their territory, the siege plotline offers character development, action, 
intrigue and deception - 
in short, opportunities for stories. 
Overall, establishing the timing and pacing of a single story and the stages of 
a more epic plot are very similar. In fact, when you are dealing with a large-scale 
plot, it is best to think of it in terms of a series of smaller events, to help give 
perspective and make an enormous task a little easier. In the Siege example, the 
Storyteller creates a larger story arc, which the players interact with (and may 
affect) though smaller vignettes and scenes. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Opening 
First, spend time researching your chosen city, whether it is the actual city 
you are running your game in or a separate location. If you and the players are 
familiar with the location, challenges and benefits of a particular setting will 
become important to the plot. Los Angeles, for example, is a much different 
location for a siege than Charleston and will have a much different feel and 
pacing. Spend some time preparing the introduction to your story: Has the local 
cardinal declared war on the Camarilla in this city or are the the character’s 
combined packs proving their worth to the Sabbat by assaulting a known 
Camarilla haven? Are the characters present because of duty or coincidence? A 
briefing on the city’s current Cainite politics and organization, however brief or 
vague, gives the players a starting place for roleplaying. Further, if characters are 
interested in running brief preludes, arrange scouting missions that detail certain 
areas of the city or gather important information they can disseminate at the 
opening game. 
Dunng the latter stages of the opening, the Storyteller should make every effort 
to establish the enemy’s strengths, weaknesses and ties within the city. Once the 
characters know who and what they are fighting, they can begin to understand the 
importance of their actions and generate new ideas to propel the siege forward. 
Scoutingpaaiesbecomeraidingparties, striking against valuable positions withinthe 
city and tearing down Camarilla bastions. Internal debates and arguments within the 
sect become significant power struggles, determining the path of the siege. Two 
courses of action may be equally valid, but who has more political clout to force her 
ideas through? Anddon’t forget that the enemy canstrike back-setbacks 
and losses 
mark this time as much as wins and triumphs. 
C1’ imax 
When the players have done a significant amount of research into the 
difficulties facing them, they are ready to confront them. Such actions deter- 
mine the climax of a story - 
the assault, and the victory (or failure) against 
opposition. This is your story’s high point, the point toward which your players 
have been traveling. In a siege storyline, the initial climax might be the first 
major battle against the Camarilla. Powerful forces, from prisci to the Black 
Hand’s seraphim, may be involved in the battle -even if they choose to engage 
the enemy from behind a deceptive screen. Characters may battle for position, 
using their victories as leverage against weaker opponents, or may use the battles 
against the Camarilla as a convenient excuse to take care of another enemy. 
The battle may be a single tremendous fight or, more likely, a series of waves 
as the Sabbat sends in packs of shock troops to break down the Camarilla’s 
defenses. The siege will need infiltrators to tear apart the Camarilla’s bonds of 
loyalty from the inside even as War Parties gather to destroy the city from the 
outside. Conversions are forced, defenses shattered, allies lost, and the story races 
headlong to the penultimate confrontation with the prince and her strongest 
allies. 
If the opening of the story was sufficiently intriguing, and the characters are 
already involved in the plot, there should be little need for you to guide the climax. 
Player involvement is always stronger than Storyteller character commands, and 
whencharacters are initiating subplots, give them plenty of leash to runon; they’ll 
take care of themselves just fine. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Denouement 
After the climax, the story winds down. Players and characters alike gather 
to count the dead and honor the living. The Sabbat has either won the city or lost 
the siege. Tensions begin to ease, and story pieces begin to come together. It is 
important that both players and characters understand the resolution of the plot; 
they should feel as if they have accomplished something, as if they have somehow 
made an impact on the world around them. Remember to note the parts of your 
plot that your players missed - 
such openings can create all new plots. 
There will certainly be new struggles within the sect to fill positions suddenly 
emptied by war and to claim power within the new hierarchy. Those packs who 
wish to set up permanent residency within the city must claim their territories, 
and there will be heartfelt farewells for those that seek to move on. 
SUB p LOTS 
Propaganda can serve an important purpose in a Sabbat chronicle. One odd 
fact about most players is their ability to solve conflicts (which, after all, are often 
the focus of stories). However, occasionally players can take their drive to bring 
peace a bit too far. The Sabbat is a dangerous place, and promises and political 
concessions are not easy ways to mollify enemies. A good storyteller will keep 
relations between the Sabbat and the Camarilla in constant turmoil, using small 
plot twists to throw the two factions against one another, at least in the 
background. Although war does not have to be a major theme in the plotline, it 
is aconstant thought in the minds of all Sabbat vampires and should be recognized 
as such. The Storyteller should maintain walls of propaganda and misinforma- 
tion, attacking the base philosophies of both sects so that no possibility of 
reconciliation is possible. 
The internal corruption within the Sabbat provides for constant minor 
subplots and conflicts. Corruption eats at the very heart of the sect, dissolving it 
from within as well as without. The Lasombra and Tzimice fight for control, as the 
less populous clans ally and struggle against one another. The rise of the Panders 
has thrown the hearts of the inner courts into turmoil, and the friction between 
jealous leaders can lead to constant power struggles between their domains. 
Although loyalty and freedom are the sect’s catchwords, too often leadership 
becomes the iron fist of rulership, and being considered disloyal is enough to 
ensure one’s destruction. 
Occult ties, particularly through the more unusual bloodlines and back- 
grounds of the sect, also make interesting and unusual subplots. Certainly, the 
Lasombra have been deeply involved in church politics almost from the inception 
of Christianity; their vaults are crammed with the prizes of hundreds of years of 
infiltration, from relics to texts to forgotten lore. The Tzimisce cling to the mystic 
ties of their homeland while the Kiasyd and Harbingers of Skulls probe into the 
mysteries of this world and the next. Though the Sabbat flaunts and brags of its 
superiority, they are well aware that there are mysteries and secrets beyond their 
reckoning. If nothing else, the recent loss of the Tremere untihibu has convinced 
them of that. 
C o NELI CTS 
Sabbat stories, like all good plots, should revolve around conflict. Heroes 
need antagonists, and even villains have enemies. Most stories take the hero out 
of the ordinary world and place her within an alien landscape, trusting on her 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


actions to define her purpose and nature. The World of Darkness provides the 
setting; the Sabbat provides the goals and drive. Still, a character is partially 
defined by her enemies, so we’ve provided a few sketches of ideas and opponents 
that often come into a Sabbat chronicle. Many of these are large story hooks: a war 
with the Camarilla won’t vanish after a single individual is killed - 
even if it is 
the prince, nor will werewolves casually forget that their Kinfolk were murdered 
during Sabbat ria. 
THE 
SABBAT 
AS HEROES 
Difficult as it may be to imagine, the Sabbat are heroes in their environment. 
They believe that their fight lies against an opponent that wishes to destroy the 
world. They see the Camarilla as pawns of a greater power, and, not unlike the 
American colonists, they fight against the might of an established group that 
claims power by no recognized right. With each victory, they free the vampires 
of the Camarilla from the Jyhad by conversion or death. 
While some players prefer to be the villain or anti-hero of the story, many 
players do want to be the heroes. Even in a Sabbat chronicle, players should be 
given opportunities for their characters to behave in a heroic manner, defending 
their comrades, goals and beliefs. One of the ways to accomplish this is by creating 
acity background for your players that gives them a natural enemy: the Camarilla. 
Restoring a city to Sabbat control can involve conversion, battle and other 
exciting adventures, and is a good place to begin a long-term Sabbat chronicle. 
It can be a refreshing change of pace to be on the other side of the fence, knocking 
down the things you were busily building up in another chronicle. 
This is not to imply that you should destroy another game - 
turning players 
against each other in such a manner could create hard feelings. It is more equitable 
to create a completely new story for your Sabbat game, separate from any Camarilla 
games you may have running at the same time. On the other hand, some players 
enjoy the struggle against an unpredictable, living opponent and may be interested 
in dividing their player base among the two sides. In this case, your job as Storyteller 
will be to keep all lines of information and reaction open and ensure that players can 
understandandcopewiththelossofafavoritecharactertotheactionsofapredatory 
member of the other sect. 
SABBAT VFRSUS ANARCH 
The anarchs provide prime recruiting ground for the Sabbat. The Camarilla 
is not unfounded in its fear of Sabbat infiltration though local anarch ranks. But 
more than that, the anarchs can be a devastating wild card in a war between the 
sects, tipping the balance at critical moments. Whether the chronicle takes place 
within an anarch city, or the anarchs are friendly to the sect, a chronicle of this 
sort is certain to have significant upheaval and opportunity for conflict. The 
mindset of most anarchs (dedication to personal freedom) is supported by the 
Sabbat, but most anarchs spit on the Vaulderie as simply a dressed-up blood bond. 
Betrayal of one stripe or another is often a theme in anarch-Sabbat plots. They 
may be easy to infiltrate, but how easy are they to convert? Many anarchs are aware 
of the Sabbat’s brutal and unwanted attempts to convert them and will resist any 
Sabbat presence in their city to their utmost. Also, the Camarilla often uses rumors 
and false Sabbat infiltrators to encourage wars between the anarchs and the Sabbat, 
wars that can only be beneficial to the Camarilla. Finding the real traitor in a nest 
of them can be a dangerous and intriguing race against time. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


SABBAT 
VERSUS CAMARILLA 
For centuries, the forces of the Camarilla have stood in violent opposition to 
the goals of the Sabbat. Where the Sabbat seeks to destroy the Antediluvians, the 
Camarilladismisses them as myths. Where Cainites consider the Beast to be agift 
of Caine that destroys their weakness, the Kindred embrace their humanity. 
There is no room for compromise. Ultimately, the Sabbat has one goal: to destroy 
the Camarilla and to convert or slaughter those who insist on following its tenets. 
The ancient battle against the Camarilla can be fought on a number of 
different fronts. Events can center around street fights, but infiltration and 
conversion attempts can also provide storytelling opportunities. A city in tunnoil 
(from Praxis struggles or clan wars) can appear the perfect wounded target for a 
crusade. It is also possible, and makes for interesting plot twists, if both sects are 
minor powers in a city held by anarchs, werewolves or even hunters. Such a 
situation might force the two sects to find ways to work together in order to defeat 
the more dangerous enemy. How does the alliance hold? What happens after the 
enemy is finally vanquished? 
The Siege 
A subset of the Sabbat/Camarilla plotline, the siege tactic revolves around open 
warfare over some trophy, typically a city or important geographical area. Involving 
thecharactersaslargegroupscanbedifficultwhenyouarerunningalive-actiongame. 
After all, there are typically 20-30 players, and only one of you. While Narrators or 
Storyteller assistants can be helpful fix to this problem, the most important thii you 
can do as a Storyteller is to create a plotline that encourages character interaction and 
shared goals, taking some of the burden off of you. It can’t be stressed enough that your 
players often give you the greatest motivational tools in their own character sheets. 
Read through their histories, find characters who are converts from or had earlier 
brushes with the Camarilla (for good or bad). Perhaps they’re still sensitive to a 
humiliating l a  at their enemy’s hands, or a convert left behind a lover who could be 
leading the defense. 
If the siege is going to be run against a city peopled solely with Storyteller 
characters, then you should take care to create believable antagonists with goals 
and initiative. These characters will become the villains to your players, so make 
them motivated, dangerous and above all real in their own right. A good way to 
give antagonists depth is to locate a personality test and take it while thinking as 
your lead antagonist. These can lend some flashes of insight into character, or give 
small details about how the antagonist might react to certain situations. 
YOUNG VERSUS OLD 
The Sabbat is founded on the idea that the oldest Cainites in the world are 
corrupt, treacherous and use the younger generations as pawns in a great game of 
power that spans continents and nations. Therefore, it is not inconceivable that 
the newer members of the sect feel a certain amount of resentment toward those 
of greater age and power. Diablerie is a common practice; those of lower 
generation may be at risk of losing their immortal lives to feed the ambition of a 
younger vampire. 
Also, the anachronism common among elder members of the sect can be a 
stumbling block to their younger companions, particularly when there is a war to be 
fought. The difference between fighting with guns and swords is monumental, and an 
elder who has become hidebound or unable to adapt will swiftly find himself 
outmaneuvered. The youth know well that the motto is “adapt or die” if they want to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


survive this war, and they will not hesitate to use whatever new weaponFateputs into 
their hands. So who will adapt? Will the elders learn in time that they must change 
to survive? Or will the young find themselves in a headlong race to keep up with the 
latest, only to risk becoming obsolete themselves! 
SABBATVERSUS 
ITSELE 
Possibly the greatest number of Sabbat plots comes from internal sect 
maneuverings. No outside force is needed to spark conflict between the sect’s 
many paths and factions; even less is needed when characters add their own 
personal goals and desires to the mix. The sect is hardly a unified one, despite the 
best efforts of the leadership. It is a cacophony of voices, all screaming to be heard, 
and each one believes the louder it screams, the more likely it will be to achieve 
its goals. 
Clans squabble with each other for a greater share of power and respect. 
Panders get in the middle of whatever they can in an effort to prove themselves 
once and for all. LasombraandVentrueuntiMibuoftencircleeachother, 
twodans 
of kings and not enough thrones for them all. The violent Brujah untihibu press 
for more strikes against their enemies, railing against the cautions of more 
conservative clans. A simple fight for power in a city or between two clans can 
grow radically in scope if one side suddenly chooses to pull out the cards of sect 
unity and brotherhood. 
The various Paths within the Sabbat contain their own plotlines. A 
member of the Sabbat who has started on the Path of Power and the Inner Voice 
will have difficulty coping in a city led by a radically hedonistic Catharist. Other 
Paths, as well, will come into conflict with one another when their goals are at 
odds, whether because of doctrinal disagreements or a sly antagonist. 
NOMADIC 
VERSUS EOUNDED 
The nomadic bands of Sabbat are considered one of the banes of the sect, 
despite their occasional use as scouts, and founded packs often resent their 
presence. During the Sabbat civil wars, nomadic packs were frequently assassi- 
nated, destroyed for their power or influence or used as fodder between warring 
factions. Many of the packs who are currently nomadic are survivors of that era, 
and as such, have not forgotten their treatment at the hands of those they called 
“brother.” 
Nomadic packs are an unbalancing influence on a city and can create strife 
between formerly peaceful factions. They come in, cause trouble and vanish 
effortlessly, leaving the founded packs to clean up their messes. For this very 
reason, nomadic packs are rarely treated with the same respect as founded packs. 
Disrespect breeds resentment, which in turn breeds treachery and deceit - 
after 
all, though the founded packs of a city celebrate the Vaulderie with one another, 
those who are simply traveling through have no such enforced loyalty to the city 
nor to the Sabbat leadership that holds sway there. They are only loyal to 
themselves, and may ignore certain rituals, commands and restrictions placed on 
founded packs. Add a little background conflict to this, and the tension can 
become a powder keg waiting for the match. 
Typically, a single nomadic pack causes little or no difficulty to a city with 
a major founded Sabbat presence. One idea might be to have several nomadic 
packs driven into the city by an outside force and compelled to live within its 
confines, rankling both their wanderlust and the stability of founded packs in the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


city. Nomadic packs are also frequently home to some very unpleasant practices 
(infernalism among them) -how long can the pack keep their secrets when each 
night in the city may bring them closer to discovery? 
THE 
BLACK 
HAND 
As we’ve already mentioned, the Sabbat is a place of great internal conflict. 
Add the members of the Black Hand and the Inquisition, and the already-volatile 
mix grows that much more exciting. The Hand has always been trusted by the Sect 
and once saved the Sabbat from falling to civil war. However, that trust only goes 
so far in the eyes of the archbishops and cardinals who secretly fear the Hand’s 
military might and wonder when loyalty to the sect is superceded by loyalty to the 
Hand. The Hand is only called u p n  in times of great need; once active, they may 
not be willing to relinquish control to a leader they see as “weak.” Yet, if the Hand 
is kept from power, the Seraphim may lose influence and strength in the Sabbat. 
They must maintain a delicate balance of fear and respect and continue to duence 
the sect from their position in the rear of the column. 
The Inquisition’s goals are not quite so subtle. If infernalist taint threatens 
the sect in a city, political niceties fall by the wayside. The seizure of the city and 
the bloody purge that follows can shock even those who call themselves beasts. 
Unlike the Hand, which maintains a working relationship with the political 
leaders of the sect, the Inquisition is comprised of fanatics who will allow nothing 
to come between themselves and their enemy. Their goal is to see the sect 
cleansed of the cancer that rots it from within. However, even such “pure” 
motives can be corrupted -how 
many purges have swept up victims innocent 
of the charge of infernalism but not of the sin of interfering with a powerful bishop? 
When a plotline involves either of these two very powerful factions, the 
Storyteller should be cautious not to overpower the characters and their goals. 
Like a visit from a Camarilla archon, the arrival of one of these mighty beings 
should be suitably momentous and rare. Use them sparingly on stage and let the 
occasion (and the plot it furthers) unfold on a grand scale. 
LOYALTY 
AND FREEDOM 
The conflict between the sect’s two founding principles, freedom and loyalty, 
is a story always waiting to be told. Although the sect does everything it can to 
unify these two beliefs, the road can be a difficult one. Many Sabbat demand total 
freedom, seeing it as the ultimate goal of the sect. They refuse to take orders from 
anyone - 
even the regent - and the Code of Milan simply undermines 
everything they seek to achieve. Understandably, the Loyalists are a significant 
problem to those who seek to keep the Sabbat together under the umbrella of 
authority. If the Sabbat is to survive, the balance between loyalty and freedom 
must be maintained. 
There are many ways to throw the delicate balance of power out ofwhack and 
thus open up new stories. A sudden attack on the city slaughters nearly all of the 
most vocal Loyalists, and the Ultra-Conservatives suddenly advance to power - 
a little too conveniently.. . Do the characters adjust their views to the liking of 
the new administration or is there more here than meets the eye? Or could it be 
that open rebellionon the part ofLoyalists causes turmoil in the sect, allowing the 
Camarilla or other enemies to take advantage of the chaos - 
which enemy 
should be dealt with first? 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


DESCENT 
INTO HELL 
Infernalism is a disease within the Sabbat. The sect finds demons and their 
methods to be repulsive and anathema to all it stands for. Personal freedom does not 
mean selling oneself into slavery. Unfortunately, there are many younger members 
who are power-hungry, discontent with their position at the lowest ranks and eager 
to explore any avenue that offers them a quick route to power. Without Humanity 
to guide them, and often with only a basic understanding of vampiric Morality, 
temptation proves irresistible. If a vampire is found guilty of infernalism, the 
outcome is always the same: execution. The method varies from place to place and 
often relies on the whim of the Inquisitor-General, but the final result will be just 
that - 
final. Meanwhile, the Inquisition hopes the monster didn’t do too much 
damage before they discovered her, but who can really tell where such a creature’s 
influence begins or ends? 
So, what makes someone desperate or greedy enough to throw away sect 
beliefs for demonic offers? Who makes the better target - 
the self-righteous, the 
underdog, the power mad or the ignored? What kind of damage can an infernalist 
do among the packs or the power structure? How far can one infernalist’s legacy 
reach? 
NON-CAINITF 
FNFMIES 
Mortals, Garou, even fae, all abhor the inhumane practices and butchery of 
the Sabbat. There are very few other creatures of the World of Darkness that the 
Sabbat can call friends, or even allies. There are many reasons why these groups 
might cross paths with the Sabbat, but what happens when they do? 
Mortal hunters can cause no end of trouble for the Sabbat, forcing them to 
re-evaluate the belief that they are “superior beings.” The vampires of the Sabbat 
are certain of their superiority to the Children of Seth and go out of their way to 
prove it in their rituals and games. The arrival of a particularly capable group of 
hunters should shake them out of complacency. Perhaps they are skilled outsiders 
who were drawn by some particularly spectacular breach of the Masquerade, or 
maybe they’re the mortal Inquisition who has had the city under observation for 
some time. A more intriguing possibility is to see how the Sabbat try to maintain 
control when the mortals of a sect-controlled city become motivated to clean up 
their town. If the kine are struggling to throw off the yoke, is it possible to force 
them to go back under? 
Garou and Sabbat clash on several fronts. Garou Kinfolk aren’t immune from 
becoming targets when a pack goes scouting for Blood Feast vessels, and the Sabbat 
stink abominably of the Wyrm to even the most casual observer. Both groups are 
used to fighting against the odds, both revere honor and strength, and both adhere 
to the belief that humans are worthless except as breeding stock or food. Some 
whisper that Black Spiral Dancers and Sabbat have joined forces on rare occasions, 
but most Garou discount such tales as campfire stories. 
Even the most heartless Unseelie can find the Sabbat lust for blood and cruelty 
to be too much, despite similar views on individual freedom, and Seelie fae abhor 
everything the Sabbat stand for. When the Sabbat target those they believe “weak,” 
weakness in their eyes could be anything changelings value, such as compassion, joy 
or creativity. Rumors abound of unholy unions between the Shadow Court and the 
Sabbat. Their denizens often share similar views on the weakness of mortals, not to 
mention enjoying the same guilty pleasures, although few are willing to brave the 
gathers where the answers might be found. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


RITAF 
The amtoritas and ignobilis ritae are the rituals and customs that bind the 
Sabbat together. For many vampires, these are the times of their unlives when 
they feel closer to their heritage as vampires and closer to the greater family of 
Cainites that surrounds them. Using the rim is a fine means of setting the stage 
for players and characters. For players, it’s a complete immersion into the Sabbat 
world and values. For characters, it’s a chance to get the blood racing (so to speak) 
and reconnect with their heritage. 
One of the best ways to draw both players and characters into the setting of 
agame is to create interestingrim and encourage every pack to develop their own 
games and rituals. The Sabbat hierarchy encourages spirituality in its members 
and encourages the development of new rim as well. The rim of a particular pack 
highlight the pack‘s qualities that others may admire or scorn. Many players love 
pomp and circumstance, and given time and space, they will create some amazing 
events for your chronicle. 
The Sabbat isn’t a homogeneous mass of vampires all spouting the same 
naughty words from between clenched fangs while posing in the latest rumble- 
worthy garb. The characters given here are all fairly typical: They’d fit in with the 
population of many Sabbat strongholds. They don’t even come close to exhaust- 
ing the range of possibilities. If you use them in your own chronicle, alter sex, 
appearance, behavior and whatever details need to change to suit your stories. Use 
these characters as starting points, not as barriers to your own innovation. 
Note: The Ability levels presented here reflect a “conservative” reading of 
the rules and the assumption that characters can still attempt tasks that require 
Abilities they’ve used up. The characters just don’t get retests anymore. If your 
chronicle imposes more limits or simply includes characters who routinely have 
more Ability levels, adjust the totals for these template characters to match. 
ARCHBISHOP 
Background: You earned your position a few decades ago after long, hard 
service in difficult circumstances. Older than the government of the country you 
dwell in, you’ve followed your region through multiple cycles of revolt and reform. 
Mortal society holds very few surprises for you. The political and social cause of 
perfect individual freedom first drew you to the sect, and you remain more 
interested in the social side of the Sabbat than doctrinal issues. Still, you can 
sustain debate on the fine points of all the major Paths and the theological 
implications of various divergent philosophies; your bishops learn quickly not to 
confuse a subject’s secondary importance to you with ignorance. Soon there will. 
Roleplaying Hints: You’ve proven yourself fit for your job. You hope to prove 
yourself fit for higher rank than this. Since your own success depends on the 
performance of those beneath you, you make sure they’ve got the resources they 
need to do well, the training to use their resources, rewards for doing good work 
and harsh penalties for failure. You can count the vampires you actually trust on 
one hand, but you have stable, mutually profitable relationships with your 
associates, and that counts for something. 
Clan: Lasombra 
Nature: Architect 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Demeanor: Survivor 
Generation: 7th 
Embrace: 1715 
Apparent Age: Middle-aged 
Physical: &le, Energetic x 2, Ferocious, Quick x 2, Tough x 2 
Social: Chuarismtic x 3, Commnding x 3, Dtplomatic, Intimidating x 3, Witty 
Mental: Attentive x 2, Creative, Dedicated x 2, Knowledgeable x 3, Observant x 2, 
Vigilant x 2 
Abilities: Alertness x 2, Brawl x 3, Camarilla Lore x3, Etiquette, Expression x 2, Fire 
Dancingx 2, Intimidation x 3, Investigation x 3, Leadership x 4, Occult x 3, Politics x 
4, Rituals x 4, Subbut Lore x 5, Streetwise, Subterfuge, SuruivuI x 2 
Disciplines: Dominate 4, Fortitude 1, Obtenehation 6, Potence 3, Protean 3 
Backgrounds: Contacts x 5, Herd x 2, Resources x 3 
Virtues: Conviction 4, Znstinct 3, Courage 5 
Path of Enlightenment: Power and the Inner Voice 4 
Willpower: 14 
Status: Battle-Scarred, Blessed, Blooded, Enlightened, Initiated, Ominous, Proven, 
Superior 
BISHOP 
Background: You are first among equals in your city. You’re not the oldest, 
but you proved most adept at using your early fascination with Sabbat spirituality 
to build a network of alliances that left your opponents isolated. Your rapid rise 
through the ranks ended at this level, and until you learn to take the sect’s enemies 
more seriously, you’ll probably go no further. You excel at settling disputes 
between your followers and rousing them to action; you need to learn about 
strategy and develop an understanding of your opposition. 
Roleplaying Hints: The best moment of your life was your last. You rejoice 
in no longer being human and dream of the time when all the kine bow before you 
for your pleasure. Youknow, beyond any shadow of adoubt, that the Sabbat must 
and shall rule the world. To prepare for the glorious triumph, you keep the 
vampires around you united. Different Paths, different styles.. . it’s all fine as long 
as it serves the Sabbat. Nothing matters but the sect. 
Clan: Ventrue antitribu 
Nature: Fanatic 
Demeanor: Visionary 
Generation: 8th 
Embrace: 1794 
Apparent Age: varies 
Physical: Brutal x 2, Dexterous x 2, Nimble x 2, Resilient x 2, Tireless x 2 
Social: Charismatic, Commnding x 2, Empathetic x 2, Expressive, Ingratiating x 2, 
Intimidating x 2, Persuasive x 2; Tactless [N] 
Mental: Astute, Creative x 2, Dedicatedx 2, Ihscerning, Intuitive, Patient x 2, Shrewd 
x 2, Wily 
Abilities: Athletics x 2, Brawl x 2, Empathy x 3, Fire Dancing x 5, Investigation x 2, 
Intimidation x 2, Le&ship 
x 3, Occult x 2, Politics, Rituals x 4, Subbat Lore x 3, 
Subterfuge, Survival 
Disciplines: Dominate 4, Fortitude 3, Presence 5, Vicissitude 2 
t 
\ 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Backgrounds: Contacts x 3, Herd x 1, Resources x 3 
Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-control 4, Courage 4 
Path of Enlightenment: Honorable Accord 5 
Willpower: 10 
Status: Blooded, Devoted, Enlightened, Enriched, Feared, Initiated, Proven 
TFM~LAR 
Background: It takes strength to do the dirty work that makes the sect run. 
You aren’t just physically tough. You have the mental discipline to keep focused 
in the midst of confusion and deception and the force ofwill to intimidate would- 
be opponents into capitulation. You’ve taken bullets for the bishop, stalked 
would-be defectors through sewers and penthouses and perched for nights on end 
in surveillance assignments. The bishop has fewer secrets from you than he might 
imagine. 
Roleplaying Hints: This is your next step up from pack leader, and you’re out 
to do a good job. You don’t care about administration; you care about the sect, and 
you do your part to make it work. Big theoretical questions hold no appeal to you; 
you’re looking at the issues at hand. Do the job and let others get out of your way. 
Clan: Nosferatu antihibu 
Nature: Perfectionist 
Demeanor: Bravo 
Generation: 10th 
Embrace: 1927 
Apparent Age: 30 
Physical: Dexterous x 2, Enduringx 2, Energetic, Ferocious x 2, Quickx 2, Resilient, 
Vigorous x2 
Social: Callous, Commanding x 2, Intimidating x 3 
Mental: Astute, Attentive x 2, Cunning, Disciplined, Patient x 2, Rational, Vigilant, 
Violent 
Abilities: Alertness x 3, Athletics x 2, Brawl x 3, Dodge x 2, Drive, Firearm x 2, 
lntimidation x 3, Investigation x 2, Security, Stealth x 2, Streetwise, Subterfuge x 2, 
Surwival 
Disciplines: Animalism 1, Fortitude 3, Obfuscate 3, Potence 4 
Backgrounds: Cont~~ts 
x 2 
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 5, Courage 5 
Path of Enlightenment Humanity 1 
Willpower: 10 
Status: Battle-Scarred, Blooded, Initiated, Ominous, Respected, Undefeated 
DUCTUS 
Background: You didn’t seek out your position: Your pack pushed it on you 
with the support of the bishop, after a series of disastrous failures wiped out many 
of your pack‘s veterans. You saw yourself as more of a scholar. Much to your 
surprise, you thrived as a leader. Now you just hope you won’t get promoted out 
of this position. You like your pack and guide them through a steady stream of 
successes. Your followers eat well, rest securely, and from time to time, strike a 
blow at one of the sect’s enemies. Not long ago you planned and executed the 
successful assassination of an autarkis elder your pack located passing through 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


town. You decided that intrigue suits you and yours, and you’re trying to persuade 
the bishop to let you undertake some covert operations in the city the archbishop 
has marked for the next crusade. 
Roleplaying Hints: The world chewed you up, swallowed your joys and 
dumped you on the streets. Payback time. The bitches and sons of bitches can 
never suffer too much. You take great pleasure in making mortals hurt in ways that 
they can’t cure and can’t stop. Your second great pleasure is helping others escape 
the bonds of the human condition. Some of them have gone on to pass you in the 
hierarchy, and that’s fine. Let them have sect power; you’re satisfied with your lot. 
Clan: Brujah antitribu 
Nature: Fanatic 
Demeanor: Curmudgeon 
Generation: 9th 
Embrace: 1933 
Apparent Age: 70 
Physical: Enduring x 2, R o h t  x 2, Rugged x 2, Tireless x 2; Lame [N] 
Social: Charming, Commanding x 2, Eloquent x 2, Empathetic x 2, Expressive x 3, 
Intimidating x 2, Persuasive; Condescedng [N] 
Mental: Attentive x 2, Clever, Cunning x 2, Dedicated x 2, Insightful x 3, Wise 
Abilities: Alertness x 2, Animal Ken, Brawl x 2, Dodge x 2, Empathy x 3, Etiquette, 
Expressionx 3, Firearms, Intimidation, Leadershipx 2, Medicine, Occult, Security x 2, 
Survivul x 2 
Disciplines: Celerity 5, Fortitude 2, Potence 2, Presence 4 
Backgrounds: Allies x 3, Contacts x 3 
Virtues: Conviction 4, Instinct 4, Courage 3 
Path of Enlightenment Cathari 4 
Willpower: 9 
Status: Battle-Scarred, Blooded, Enriched, Feared, Initiated, Undefeated 
PRIEST 
Background: When you were alive, you seemed to be just one more working- 
class woman attending your local evangelical church. One night the survivors of 
a pack from a failed crusade sheltered in your basement and discovered that all on 
your own, you’d reinvented most of the trappings of classical infemalism. Beneath 
your calm exterior, you were angry enough at the world to try everything your 
could think of that might summon demons. The survivors consulted briefly and 
offered you the Embrace. You accepted. Now you throw yourself without reserve 
into the spiritual side of the Sabbat. Who cares about politics? You want to see 
humanity crushed and the worthy few, yourself included, elevated to supreme 
power. God Himself can’t hide from you forever. When you find Him, you’ll pull 
Him down and crush him, too. In the meantime, you train yourself and your 
packmates to make fullest use of your blessed nature. 
Roleplaying Hints: They’re all going toget what’s coming to them. You’llsee 
to it. You’re halfway to union with the First Rebel, the man who showed by his 
example how to exist free of subservience and fear. You love your condition and 
wish to help those around you do the same. By yourselfyou werenothing, but these 
wonderful people helped you find your way. In return, you owe them all the 
counsel you can provide. Alarmists say the Final Nights are here. If it’s time for 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the consummation of the war, you’ll make sure your troops go into battle blessed 
and ready. 
Clan: Malkavian untihibu 
Nature: Architect 
Demeanor: Celebrant 
Generation: 8th (originally 1 1 th) 
Embrace: 1940 
Apparent Age: 40 
Physical: Brawny, Brutal, Energetic x 2, Ferocious x 2, Stalwart x 2, Tenacious x 2 
Social: Churismtic x 2, Commwhngx 2, Dignifiedx 2, Eloquent x 3, Ingratiatingx 
2 
Mental: Astute, Attentive, Dedicated x 2, Disciplined x 2, Vigilant x 2, Wise x 2 
Abilities: Alertness, Brawl, Empathy, Etiquette x 2, Fire Dancing x 2, Fiream, 
Hearth Wisdom x 2, Intimidation, Leadership x 2, Medicine, Occult x 2, Rituals x 3, 
Subbut Lore x 2, Surviwd 
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dementation 4, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 1 
Backgrounds: Contacts x 2, Mentor 
Virtues: Conviction 5, Ins tinct 3, Courage 3 
Path of Enlightenment Caine 3 
Willpower: 10 
Status: Battle-Scarred, Blessed, Devoted, Enlightened, Enriched, Initiated 
~ R I M A L D I  EIXFR 
Background: You could settle down, hold one job and get comfortably rich 
if you wanted to. You prefer to move around and deal with fresh situations as they 
come up. This temperamental quirk makes you valuable to your family and to the 
Sabbat. After living in a town for a few years, you usually know everybody who 
matters in a crisis. The vampires, revenants and ghouls you bail out of crises 
seldom see you doing very much, they just notice you on your cell phone or 
stopping in to visit a few offices, and then the crisis goes away. You know how to 
settle fears through a combination of calm words, carefully phrased promises and 
great quantities of money. 
Roleplaying Hints: You get things done. That’s the long and the short of it. 
Your family and the vampires can’t rule the world if everyone’s in jail, on the lam 
or dead, and you’re the guy that keeps them at liberty. Cleaning up messes may 
seem like lower-class janitor work, but you don’t mind: It’s always a fresh chance 
to see how people tick when all their usual props fail. You’d never mention this 
part, but if you ever do decide to settle down, you’ll have a whole lot of favors to 
collect. 
Clan: Grimaldi (revenant family) 
Nature: Caregiver 
Demeanor: Survivor 
Apparent Age: Early middle age 
Physical: &le, 
Brutal x 2, Enduring, Ferocious x 2, Rugged x 2, Tireless 
Social: Charismatic x 2, Charming, Cmmndingx 2, Diplomatic, Elegant, Expressive, 
Maptic 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mental: Astute, Clever, Creative x 2, Determined, Insightful x 2, Knowledgeable, 
Reflective 
Abilities:Alertnessx3, Brawlx 2,CamrillaLorex3,Cmputerx2,Dodgex3,Dnve 
~3,Empathyx3,Etiquettex3,Expressionx2,Financex3,Fireannsx2, 
Intimzdation 
x 3, Investigation x3, Law x 2, Leadership, Medicine, Occult, Politics x 2, Repair, 
Rituals, Sabbut Lore x 4, Security x 2, Stealth x 2, Streetwise x 3, Subterfuge x 3 
Disciplines: Celerity 2, Dominate 2, Fortitude 2 
Backgrounds: Allies x 3, Contacts x 5, Influence: Bureaucracy x 4, Influence: 
Finance x 4, Influence: High Society x 2, Influence: Legal x 4, Influence: Police x 3, 
Influence: Street x 3, Influence: Transportation x 4, Influence: Underevorld x 4, 
Resources x 4 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 
Path of Enlightenment: Honorable Accord 4 
Willpower: 8 
ZANTOSA 
SOCIALITE 
Background: You make it a point to know everyone worth knowing and to 
turn that knowledge to the advantage of the Sabbat. When the time for a major 
rim approaches, you make a few calls and line up a few wealthy people that 
nobody will miss. When a war party needs information on a target’s influence in 
mortal society, you make discreet queries as to who’s showing the little signs of 
unearned favor. You supply mortals with interesting substances in their blood for 
pack parties and know how to line up the latest musical acts for public shows. 
Roleplaying Hints: It’s agrand existence. You get the best of both worlds - 
neither mortal nor vampire can experience as much as you do. You’re in the 
perfect position to make the world what you know it should be, and the best part 
is that others will pay you to help twist their souls. Every favor you do lets you push 
the recipients that much further from the light. 
Clan: Zantosa (revenant family) 
Nature: Monster 
Demeanor: Bon Vivant 
Apparent Age: Late 20s 
Physical: &le, Graceful, Lithe, Quick, Resilient 
Social: Charming, Commanding, Dignified, Diplomatic, Elegant, Magnetic, Persuu- 
sive, Witty 
Mental: Astute, Cunning, Determined, Insightful, Knowledgeable, Vigilant, Wily 
Abilities: Alertness, Athletics x 2, Dnve, Empathy x 3, Expression x 2, Finance x 2, 
Fiream, Intimidation, Investigation, Occult x 2, Perfurmance (singing) x 3, Security, 
Stealth, Submfuge x 3 
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Presence 1, Vicissitude 1 
Backgrounds: Allies x 2, Contacts x 3, Fame x 2, Herd x 2, Influence: High Society 
x 3, Influence: Occult x 3, Influence: Political x 2, Resources x 5 
Virtues: Conviction 3, Instinct 3, Courage 3 
Path of Enlightenment: Cathari 2 
Willpower: 6 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1
