I 
c 
A 
.* . 
c , 
"r- 
*
.
 
. . 


1 .' 
. 
.* 
to the sprawling cities, the signs 
are everywhere - 
the coming of Apocalypse is certainty. Gaia needs 
Her warriors more than ever in these days. But the Garou Nation is 
beset on all sides - 
from the Wyrm's many minions, the Weaver's 
machinations, the slow decimation of the wilderness, and perhaps even 
from within. 
3 
BLAt. dof Wifhowf ci Fyhf? 
Laws of the Wild Revised is the revised nd updated rulebook 
for playing the mighty Garou in live-action. Based on Werewolf: The 
Apocalypse Revised, this book carries the new material and the advanced 
storyline. Everything a player needs to learn the basics of the Werewolf 
setting, create a character and begin playing is contained within. 
; 
4 
f 
c 
Heciu C,ciicik b&le-cuy - Assemble 
fhe F-tmoes? 
I 
1 3 D l Y  I-3252540-3Ul-L 
5 1 9 9 5  
WW 5023 $19.95 U.S. 
PRINTED IN CANADi 
9 781588 465016 


T h e  bonfire sent dancing shadows around the assembled group, 
illuminating and shadowing faces in equal measure. The crowd - 
a mix 
of young, old and every age in between - 
waited in anticipation and 
curiosity. While some did cluster with their own - 
here a knot of people 
in business casual, there a group with Native American features - 
there 
seemed to be no single defining mark. Still, a stranger entering the circle 
would have sensed that he was in the middle of a family reunion. 
Excitement charged the crowd. Tonight, there would be new arriv- 
als, new young warriors ready to take up the fight. This would mark their 
beginning. There had been no youth in far too long, and for many, this 
was truly an occasion to celebrate. 
T h e  ritemaster stood up before the crowd, opened his throat and 
uttered a piercing howl. Through the group came echoes of the same, but 
from the throats of wolves themselves. Tonight, they were greeting a new 
pack, a new band of Gaia’s warriors, who would fight together, sharing a 
common enemy - 
facing their Rite of Passage. 
*** 
“Look, I don’t much care if you hate me, okay?” Pete spat at a raven- 
tressed girl in Doc Martens and black leather. “I’m goddamned used to it 
by now. But the least you could do is pretend to work with us, okay?” 
Marja threw him a disdainful look and lit a cigarette. “Whatever you 
say, mule.” 
Pete’s muscles bunched and shifted under his clothes as he started to 
gain height on Marja. H e  was going to wipe that damned Shadow Lord 
better-than-you smile off those blood-red lips, and he would have, had 
not a slender young woman interposed herself between them, frowning at 
both of them. 
2 


“What is with you two?!” Jackie snapped. “We’re supposed to get 
introduced soon, and all YOU two want to do is riD each other apart! That’s 
going to look real good in front of everyone out there - 
‘Sorry, but it’s 
just me right now, ‘cause the other two are busily killing each other.”’ 
Marja glared at her, much like a carnivore regarding a vegetarian. 
“Back off, Mary Sunshine. I didn’t ask to get stuck in this wuss pack.” 
Jackie did not glare, but neither did she drop her consideration of 
Marja. “Believe me, with your attitude, I wouldn’t have chosen you 
either. But the elders think we should be together. Let’s at least try not 
to kill each other.” 
T h e  combatants stepped apart, after a last glower in each other’s 
direction. Pete returned to homid form, rubbing his crippled left arm self- 
conconsciously. Jackie approached quietly. “Sorry about that,” she 
murmured. 
Pete rounded on her, still seething. “Don’t do me any favors, okay? 
I’ve been at this a lot longer than you, I know how to handle myself.” 
Jackie bit her lip and turned away before she said something she 
would regret later. That much was true, that Pete had been at Garou life 
much longer than her - 
he had been born a metis, while she hadn’t 
known anything about her Garou blood until she had her First Change. 
But what was she supposed to say? Stand by and watch these two tear 
into each other for the umpteenth time? Did they do anything other 
than squabble? 
Jackie considered her two soon-to-be packmates (they wouldn’t be 
official until the elders announced them). Pete had been born metis, 
the evidence of his parents’ sin found in his deformed left arm. He’d 
lived as a Garou all his life, but taking a lot of grief along the way, which 
left him with a chip on his shoulder the size of Ayer’s Rock. Now h e  
reminded her of a beaten animal, believing that every hand came with 
anger, snapping at anyone who tried to approach him. Not that Marja 
didn’t deserve it for her attitude - she’d always seemed to be o n  a 
superiority trip since Jackie had met her, and the discovery of her tribe 
had only made her a bigger pill. She actually believed that she was better 
than Jackie or Pete because she was a Shadow Lord. W i t h  this combo, 
Jackie wasn’t sure she liked their chances. 
T h e  new Philodox offered a silent prayer to Gaia: Give me nothing I 
can’t handle, although she suspected she would shortly find out just how 
much she could handle. 
**x 
Marja took another dragon her cigarette and, with practiced casuality, 
considered the pair of weaklings that a couple of a sadistic elders had 
inflicted on her as a “pack.” Just a rotten luck of the draw that she had 
happened to arrive when she did, that was all. 
3 


~’.mu-/l/&D4Wm- 
Jackie - 
a Child of Gaia who looked like she’d just walked out of 
some modern TV show. Probably even acted like it, too - 
all sweetness 
and kindness, out to prove the world was wrong about werewolves, 
wearing her environmentally conscious T-shirt and Birkenstocks. It 
made her want to gag. And then there was Pete, the mule and a Glass 
Walker to boot. O h ,  please. What else was there to say? And these two 
expected her to go along with this miserable idea? Worst of all, so did 
the elders. 
Grandfather Thunder, what the hell am I supposed to do with these losers? 
she grumbled privately. How am I supposed to earn glory with a mule and a 
tree-hugger? I’m not sure what I did wrong, but let me atone for it so I can get 
past these jokers and on with my life. 
3) 
- 
*** 
Pete backed up against a nearby tree (the better to avoid being 
surprised), unconsciously rubbing his left arm. He caught himself, and 
forced his hand back to his side. It was a bad habit he’d picked up over the 
years - 
drawing attention to the very thing that marked him as metis. 
Being around other people tended to make him nervous, and that brought 
it out of him. Why did he have to be around other people anyway, 
especially this pack idea of the elders? He’d grown up at the caern, always 
knowing he was Garou, and here h e  was being treated like a new cub. 
Better a cub, he mused, than some other things I could say. 
His packmates seemed to be two ends of a spectrum. Jackie was Child 
of Gaia, and certainly had the predilections of her blood - 
trying to be 
the peacemaker, trying to keep him and Marja from killing each other, 
trying not to stare at his crippled arm. Nice enough, he supposed, but she 
had no real clue what she was getting into for the rest of her life. T h e n  
there was Marja- 
Pete felt his Rage starting to bubble inside at the mere 
thought of her. She definitely had the blood in her, too: She had her own 
ideas about how things should run, and as far as she was concerned, she 
was alpha, and he and Jackie could go to hell. Without Jackie’s interven- 
tions, he and she would have been throating each other left and right. 
Add in that both were better looking than the average, and Pete felt 
strangely trapped. 
Well, Mother, here we are. You obviously had something in mind for 
us. Now what? 
*** 
Arianna stepped into the grove, considering the pups. A motley lot 
if ever she’d seen one. Why they hadn’t all ripped into one another yet 
was a mystery to her, and it would be an even bigger one how Gaia would 
keep them in one piece in the weeks to come. Still, if the elders had their 
ideas, one didn’t question it. “Come on, kids,” she beckoned. “It’s time 
for introductions.” 
4 


Jackie pushed her hair out of her face nervously and walked out. 
Pete stepped away from the tree and followed. Marja came after, the 
cigarette still dangling out of her mouth. As she passed Arianna, the 
Black Fury snatched it from the disrespectful pup’s lips and crushed it 
between her fingers. Marja started to protest, then got a fierce look that 
made her reconsider. 
T h e  crowd had been whispering as they entered, many craning their 
heads for a better view of the newest generation. Pete had to clench his 
right fist to keep himself from the old nervous habit. Marja simply tossed 
her head back and kept walking - 
after all, she could hardly have these 
Nervous Nellies thinking they’d actually got her on the ropes. 
T h e  ritemaster called out: “Where is Peter?” 
“Right here, sir,” Peter stepped out. 
“And Jacqueline?” 
Jackie stepped forward, and swallowed hard to pluck up her nerve 
before speaking. “Um, sir? N o  one calls me Jacqueline. I’m just Jackie.” 
There was a soft ripple of laughter, but the ritemaster nodded gravely. 
“Indeed. Names are important, little one. Care for yours well.” 
“And now, Marja ....” H e  paused on the name, and let his eyes 
wander the crowd, deliberately not seeing her. It was provocation to 
irritation, and he knew it, she thought. She strode out, hands defiantly 
on hips, and snapped, “Down here, if you want to see.” 
T h e  laughter of earlier was now replaced with a gasp, but the 
ritemaster did not seem to notice. “Tonight, you are given to Gaia as her 
newest, as pups seeking entrance to the Mother’s garden. Such a prize 
does not come easily, though. There are tests and trials, all to ensure that 
only those worthiest to enter may do so. In completing your Rites of 
Passage, I expect each of you to have an answer for the challenges I put 
before you now.’ 
“Peter - 
you have lived all your life among the Garou. You have 
always known what you were, but have you ever known who you were? 
Not as a metis, not as an Ahroun, not even as a Garou, but as Peter? Your 
task shall be to learn who you are and your place in the Mother’s fight.” 
Pete returned the stare for several moments, then dropped his eyes. 
Challenge accepted. 
His expression softened a little as he considered Jackie. “Jackie - 
you have come to this world as a cub, wide-eyed with innocence regarding 
the world. Your innocence will not protect you for long, and innocence 
must never equal ignorance. You have much to learn if you would become 
one of the Mother’s warriors. Your task shall be to learn of yourself as a 
Garou.” Jackie ventured to meet his glance, blushed, but nodded quietly 
and glanced downward. Challenge accepted. 
5 


“Marja-,” the ritemaster rumbled, staring hard at her. “You arrived 
9 
here unknowing of your heritage and blood, an unknowing replaced with 
knowledge. It has, however, become a source of hubris for you. You 
believe that you are well-aware of yourself -perhaps. 
You know nothing 
of others, however. Your task shall also be to learn, but not of yourself. 
You must learn of others - 
whether they be of other tribes, other breeds, 
other lives. Turn away from yourself and look into others instead.” Marja 
stared back defiantly. T h e  ritemaster growled softly, and something in his 
green eyes seemed to flare. Marja suddenly became acutely aware of the 
many eyes on her, and she dropped her head, more out of embarrassment. 
Like it or not, she had accepted the challenge. 
“So be it. Let all witness that Peter, Marja and Jackie have accepted 
their challenges, and now seek their place in our ranks. Let them be tested 
and tried until they join us as full Garou.” 
A great howl went up from the assembled, and the three stole glances 
at each other. This was definitely the beginning. ... 
6 


7 


Crebits 
Written by: Wruce Wauqh, Heather Grove, Alan 1. Kraoit, Lllen b. Kiley 
Oevelopeb by: Cynthia Summers 
&bite3 by: Richarb Ruane 
Art birection by: Aaron Uoss 
Art by: Laura Robles 
L ayout anb typesetting: Aaron Uoss 
blaytesters: Kathy Abromovich, Christopher J Arnolb, @atrick dallou, 
Wrian C. Clark, Aaron Colgrove, Michael "Lionman" Hackett, James M. 
Henbricks, Llizabeth Hiqqins, O a v i b  Hoelscher, Tricia Hoelscher, 
Christopher Jennings, Tori Mauslein, M y k e  McGovern, Ryan Mulberig, 
O a l e  W. Robbins, LaTrice Simmons, Marc "Spence" Spencer, Wfarisa 
Stanley, Robert Wheeler 
Special Thanks to: 
Chris "Seeb-&other" Hooker, for giving new meaning to "family tree: 
Cony "Like, Carol" berry, for the Corax with the magic mushrooms. 
John "Chomas" Lambert, for first proving that Garou c d b  be cool. 
I n  Memoriam: To T o n y  Oreyer, who left too soon. Gaia qo with you 
always .... 


Chapter One: fntrobuction 
11 
Chapter Cwo: T h e  G i b e s  
36 
CHapter Three: Character Creation 
64 
Chapter Four: Gifts anb Rites 
116 
Chapter Fiue: Rules, Systems 
166 
anb O r a m a  
Chapter Six: T h e  Umbra 
224 
Chapter 5euen: Allies anb Antagonists 260 


Stories Arounb the Fire 
Once upon a time, long before television or computers or even books, people sat 
around the fire and told stories for entertainment. Whether it was a ballad of a hero’s 
latest exploits or a cautionary tale about dealing with the hiddencreatures of the world, 
storytellers were a valued part of the community as teachers and entertainers. And 
tale-telling was hardly apassive art - 
the storyteller relied on his audience for reaction 
to his tale as he spoke. How else would he know if they were enjoying the story, or if 
they were getting bored? 
Time marched on, and technological developments began to change, if not 
interfere with, the storyteller’s art. Books (and the spread of literacy) meant that 
someone could simply read a story whenever he liked instead of hunting down a 
storyteller to tell it. Radio and television remade the storyteller into an impassive 
creature that did not encourage audience participation. Stories were still told, and in 
great quantity, but they were largely sterile, unliving things. 
Now we come to the 1970s, and the era of roleplaying. A group of players sits 
around a table, listening to their leader describe scenes of dank dungeons and dark 
cities, and they choose which path to take next. At one of these sessions, someone gets 
the idea to start standing up, moving and thinking as her character might. Over time, 
more players do the same, creating what will become known as live-action roleplaying 
(or LARP). In fact, this “new” entertainment is a return to the oldest: The leader was 
the Storyteller taking her listeners on a new journey, and the listeners were responding 
in kind, taking on the roles of the characters in the story, telling this new tale to the 
Storyteller, the other player-listeners and themselves. 
What is Minb’s Lye Cheatre? 
This game is probably unlike anything you have played before. In many ways, it’s 
not really a game, because it doesn’t have a lot of the trappings of games - 
such as 
cards, dice or a playing board. It’s also far more concerned with the stories to be told 
along the way than “winning.” It’s more like the make-believe ofchildhood than what 
11 


most people typically think of when they imagine “games.” This book contains all the 
information you’ll need to start playing and telling your own stories. You create the 
action, you choose the path to follow, you decide what risks to accept. We call this style 
of game Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Playing Mind’s Eye Theatre is like being in a movie. You and your friends are the 
characters, but there is no script. There may be a framework or setting that determines 
the parameters of the world around you, but you and the others around you are creating 
the story as you play. The “director” of this movie is the Storyteller, assisted by 
Narrators. The Storyteller creates the stage and the minor characters that the players 
interact with to tell this story. 
Most scenes in Mind’s Eye Theatre are played out in real-time - 
an hour in the 
make-believe world is 60 minutes long, and it takes up 60 minutes in the real world - 
and always in character. Players always remain in character during the game unless 
there is a rules dispute. 
Char act e r s 
When you play Apocalypse (the game for which this book was developed), you 
take on another persona, here a werewolf. Your character can be almost anything - 
from any walk of life, age, creed, race or sex. The only limit is your imagination. When 
you create this character, you decide what she says or does. You decide where she goes 
and what choices she makes. During the game, you speak as your character, unless 
you’re resolving a rules dispute or talking to the Storyteller. Because most of what a 
Mind’s Eye Theatre player perceives depends on the other players, all players must be 
vivid and expressive. 
While the characters may direct the plot through their actions, the plot reacts in 
ways that direct the characters. For example, a character decides she wants to create 
a coffeehouse with space for people to perform, and she invites a well-known local 
group to perform for an evening - 
here, the characters are directing the plot through 
their actions. However, the plot reacts to this direction - 
the Storyteller tells the 
characters that the performance has aroused some suspicious attention. It seems that 
one of the performers reminds one of the characters of a singer who was supposed to 
have died about two years ago. Thus is a story built in Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Creating a character for Apocalypse is easy, and it takes just a few minutes. Only 
a few things become necessary to define the basic capabilities of a character, and when 
they’re done, you can start playing. There’s another phase to creating a character, 
though. A character is, by and large, like aperson, and people aren’t just flat cardboard 
cutouts with a few numbers to represent what they can do. People have pasts, likes and 
dislikes, goals and dreams - 
all the intangible things that make a person into what 
other people see when he walks into a room or talks to them. It’s not much different 
from all the care that an actor or author takes when creating a character. So as you’re 
creating your character, think a little about where she comes from, what she wants out 
ofher existence, what she’ll do to get it, what she loves and hates. Does your character 
love thunderstorms and watch them from the window, or have they frightened her 
ever since she was a small child? Does your character want revenge on the person who 
killed a loved one, and will he bargain with the Devil himself to get it? While certain 
personality quirks and details will emerge as you play, it’s a good idea to have the basics 
in place for the first time you walk into a room and meet the other characters. 
Characters are the heart and soul of the story. Without them, all the efforts of the 
Storyteller would be for nothing, and there would be no stories to tell. 
12 


is 
Che Storyteller 
The Storyteller is the one who creates the world that the players move through. 
She creates a skeletal framework of setting and plot, then turns the characters loose 
to put flesh on its bones. More than that, she acts as an impartial judge when the rules 
are questioned, describes scenes that can't be staged and even plays the parts of 
antagonists or other people with whom the characters interact. The Storyteller is 
usually assisted by Narrators, who play their own characters but are ready to answer 
rules questions when necessary. 
Storytelling is a demanding (and occasionally exhausting) task. A Storyteller 
must oversee the events to be certain that people have a good time, that the rules are 
being followed and that the story is running smoothly. Sometimes she must create plot 
elements on the spur of the moment or adjudicate between several quarreling players. 
In spite of all this responsibility, there is something immensely satisfying about 
watching the players create something remarkable with the plot elements given them. 
It really makes the headache all worthwhile. 
4 
I 
I 
Wereroolf: T h e  Apocalypse anb Lams of the W i l b  
This book is based on the tabletop creation Werewolf: The Apocalypse 
Revised. While it is not necessary to own or know Werewolf to play this 
game, some players may find it helpful for more setting material. There are a 
number of Werewolf-related books with material that can be adapted for live- 
action play. 
This edition of Laws of the Wild has been created to update the rules for 
Werewolf's live-action adaptation, Apocalypse. Those with older editions of 
Laws of the Wild may find some significant differences between the two, and 
it is advised that a Storyteller rule which edition of Laws of the Wild is canon I 
4 
' for the game for the sake of clarity and consistency. 
&leganfly Simple 
This game was designed to be easy to play and easier to start. Character creation 
takes only a few minutes. The basic rules are simple, and they cover most of the 
encounters a new player will enter. Even very new players who have never played 
Mind's Eye Theatre before will find that this game takes little effort to pick up. 
HOW to Use Chis nook 
This book gives you all the basic rules that you'll need to start playing or 
Chapter One: Introduction - 
The introduction to both Mind's Eye Theatre 
Chapter Two: The Tribes - A complete overview of the werewolf tribes 
Chapter Three: Character Creation - 
Everything that you'll need to create a 
Chapter Four: Gifts and Rites - 
Descriptions of the mysterious powers the 
Storytelling Apocalypse. 
and the World of Darkness. 
available for play in the World of Darkness. 
character to start playing. 
spirits teach and the rituals that shape werewolf lives. 
13 


Chapter Five: Rules, Systems and Drama - 
The chapter starts with the basic 
rules you’ll need for play, followed with systems for combat, derangements, health, 
healing and more werewolf-related issues, like howling. 
Chapter Six: The Umbra-this chapter details the spirit world that borders the 
physical reality, and some of the denizens that werewolves may encounter. 
Chapter Seven: Allies and Antagonists - 
Werewolves aren’t the only creatures 
of the night. This chapter provides a basic overview of some of the other denizens of 
the World of Darkness, as well as ways to incorporate them into stories. 
C h e  Rules Chou Shalt never wreak 
These are the most important and immutable rules of MET, the ones that keep 
your game and your players safe from folks who either don’t care that you’re playing 
a game or who take the game way too seriously. Always adhering to these rules will also 
keep your game amenable to law enforcement and other non-player folks. 
n o  Couching. no Stunts. 
That means none whatsoever. It’s far too easy for things to get out hand in the 
heat of the moment. Save the stunts for your imagination. If you can imagine you’re 
a nine-foot-tall hairy monster, then you can sure imagine you’re swinging on a 
chandelier or leaping across rooftops. 
Mo Weapons. 
No matter how careful you are. Whether it’s to prevent some fool from skewering 
himself on your new dagger or to make sure the police don’t think you’re a threat, 
weapons of any sort are forbidden. Even fake or toy weapons, trained attack gerbils or 
laser pens are not allowed. Use item cards instead. 
M O  O r u g s  or a r i n k i n g  
Well, duh. Drinking and drugs do not inspire peak performance, and players who 
are so impaired are a threat to other players and the game. It’s one thing to play a 
characterwho isdrunkor stoned, but another thing entirely to actually come to agame 
under the influence. At best it’s tasteless; at worst it’s illegal. Don’t do it. 
It’s Only a Game 
If a character dies, if a plot falls apart, if a rival gets the upper hand, it’s just agame. 
You and the rest of the players are doing this for fun. Taking things too seriously or 
taking character issues into real life, will only spoil everyone’s enjoyment, including 
yours. Remember, playing a game should be fun: If you’re not having fun, it’s time for 
a reassessment. 
Remember to leave the game behind when the session’s over. “Soft” roleplaying 
(conversing in character without challenges) can be fun, and there’s nothing wrong 
with talking about the game afterward at the local diner. On the other hand, 
demanding weekly tribe meetings or trying to rouse your elder to talk business at three 
in the morning signifies the need for a change in perspective. 
d3e Minbful of Others 
Not everyone around you is playing the game. You want to ensure that your game 
and your players are welcomed. Frightening people and getting the local law enforce- 
14 


ment called on you is not the way to do it. This is especially true if you’re playing in 
a public area, such as a park. It can be a very good idea to alert local merchants and 
police before you play so they’re prepared. If you get curiosity-seekers, try to have some 
business cards on hand and offer to speak with them when you have more time. 
00 
What Works For you 
We at White Wolf often call this proviso “the golden rule.” Your game may have 
special circumstances that require a few extra bells and whistles to the rules, or your 
troupe may find a way to handle something that works better for you. So long as people 
are having fun, go ahead and run with it - 
it’s your game. 
Likewise, if you see something that you want in your game that doesn’t appear with 
an MET system, then sit down and cobble up something that will work for you. If MET 
is all about telling stories, then here’s the part where the Storyteller improvises. 
Have Fun 
Not “Win.” Not “Go out and conquer everyone else.” Just have fun because in 
MET it’s not about how the game ends but what happens along the way. 
On the surface, the World of Darkness is not too much different from our own. 
People are born, grow up, work and die every day. Plants grow, as do skyscrapers. The 
same newspapers are sold on the street corner, and television is the same vast 
wasteland. Below the surface, however, is a much darker element, one that is fed by 
the violence and despair which the monsters need to fuel themselves. It is far less 
simple than throwing a coat of black paint over the veneer of our world. The monsters 
in the World of Darkness are far too real. 
Gothic-Punk is the term used to describe the attitude of the World of Darkness. 
The “Gothic” aspect is that of the sinister, looming shadow that permeates life. 
Buildings here, encrusted with gargoyles, dwarf all below them. Despair is a common 
theme, and any banner that offers hope or power can be certain of many followers. The 
divisions between haves and have-nots are nearly insurmountable gulfs. The world is 
a place ofmystery- the sort that is uncovered in old books and which is best left alone 
for safety’s sake. 
On the other side of the coin is “Punk” - 
what many citizens of the World of 
Darkness have done in order to give their lives meaning. They throw themselves against 
the walls of power in rebellion, often until they forget what they first despised. Crime is 
more prevalent and more violent. Speech is coarser, fashions are bolder, art seeks only 
to shock, and technology ensures that everyone gets it at the click of a button. 
This is the world that the Garou call home. 
The C;arou 
Legends of half-human, half-beast monsters have been around since the begin- 
ning of time. In some lands, the shapechangers were reviled as foul witches and 
murderers while in others the gift of many shapes was considered a mark of great power, 
even holiness. There have been many kinds of shapeshifters - 
from the leopard- 
people of Africa to the fox-fairies of Asia to the berserkers (bear-shirt men) of 
Scandinavia - 
but it is the werewolf that inspires the greatest dread and awe. In the 
wolf, there is a element of the untamed, and the human fear ofNature red in tooth and 
IS 


claw. For all of humankind’s efforts to “tame” the wilderness, the wilderness doesn’t 
want to be tamed and waits for the opportunity when humans wander too far from their 
cozy dens and SUVs. 
As much as humans have hated and feared the wild animals, especially those who 
were stronger than us, we have envied their strengths - 
flight, keen sight, beauty, 
freedom. We have worn masks, animal skins and teeth, hoping to gain some of that 
strength, or incorporated them into rituals in an effort to become more like them. Even 
today, people wear jewelry or clothing depicting animals to express their admiration 
or to draw strength from them. 
In older days, it was said that one must wear a wolf skin or perform unholy rites, 
or drink from the paw print of a wolf to become a werewolf. All you have to do is open 
this book. 
Werewolves in the World of Darkness aren’t much like their movie counterparts. 
Tales of shapeshifting witches or animals that take human shape also have some 
misconceptions. What follows are common myths and misconceptions about the 
werewolves in the world of Apocalypse. 
Werewolves are ravaging beasts in wolf form. False. Werewolves retain their 
full sentience in whatever form they take. Their savagery stems from a supernatural 
anger called Rage. While Rage allows werewolves to perform incredible feats, it also 
can cause them to lose control of themselves and fly into terrible fits of berserk 
violence. A werewolf in this state can think only about ripping something apart with 
his bare talons 
Werewolves change their shape during the full moon. Mostly false. Werewolves 
can change forms whenever they like. However, they do have deep spiritual ties to the 
moon, and a werewolfs Rage increases as the moon waxes. Consequently, when the 
moon is full, a werewolf is brimming with Rage and likely to go berserk at the slightest 
provocation. 
If a werewolf bites someone, that person becomes a werewolf. False. Werewolves 
are born, not made. Most werewolves are born to humans or wolves, and may not know 
of their heritage until they change shape for the first time. 
Werewolves are witches who change shape by dressing in wolf skin. False. 
You’re either born to be a werewolf or you aren’t; being Garou is not something you 
can acquire. While there are magic-users in the World of Darkness and some can 
shapeshift into animals, they are merely becoming animals, not Garou. Likewise, you 
cannot become a werewolf by drinking water from a wolfs paw print, sleeping in a wolf 
den or similar means. 
Only silver can kill a werewolf. Partially true. Werewolves aren’t immortal - 
they can grow old, and they can be killed. They can endure incredible amounts of 
damage that would stop charging elephants, and heal themselves very quickly. Silver 
is another matter - 
its ties to the moon give it a supernatural strength, and wounds 
from it burn Garou worse than fire. Such wounds are slow to heal and might be fatal. 
A silver bullet isn’t the instant kill seen in the movies, but it is a hunter’s best chance 
to take down a werewolf. 
Werewolves in human form have strange features such as pointed ears or 
eyebrows grown together. Almost entirely false. Werewolves look no different from 
humans when in their human form. However, there are werewolves whose parents 
were both werewolves as well, and the breeding resulted in a deformed offspring called 
a metis. Metis deformities are often visible in human form, but they are far more 
debilitating, such as a withered arm, albinism or blindness. 
16 


Werewolves are loners, cut off from social contact by their curse. False. 
Werewolves have the same pack mentality as normal wolves, and they are intensely 
social with each other because their Rage makes it difficult to interact with normal 
humans and wolves for long. To be cast out and walk alone is considered a horrible 
punishment. 
T h e  fleginning of All Things 
In the days when time was young, all that existed was filled with magic. Gaia, the 
great Earth Mother, was deeply moved by the swirling eddies of magic that surrounded 
Her. Taking the stuff of Her own body, she molded and shaped it with the warmth and 
strength of her hands, working the ambient enchantment into the forms of her 
creations. She labored long at her task, but time was new and Gaia was absorbed in the 
act of creation. When She was done, She set down creatures of two legs and of four on 
Her broad stomach, for there was nowhere else for them to stand. The creatures who 
stood on two legs She called Human. The greatest of those on four legs - 
and there 
was a riotous variety of these four-legged creatures - 
She called Wolf. 
Gaiasettledback towatchHercreations.The1ureofmagichadmovedotherbeings 
to the act ofcreation as well. Gaia saw creatures that were not made by Her hand lurking 
among Her creations, hunting them, causing great pain and destruction. She despaired, 
for even though Human and Wolfwere valiant in their owndefense, they were not strong 
enough to stand alone against the monsters that crawled across Her skin and burrowed 
through Her body. Luna, Gaia’s luminous sister Moon, saw her sister’s pain and leaned 
close to murmur into Her ear. Create again, she advised. Make for your children and for 
yourself defenders and caretakers to thwart the dark creatures that crottbk you. 
So Gaia gathered together the finest of Her creations. She reached into Herself 
again, deeper than before, and molded the two-legged creatures with the four-legged, 
binding them together with fragments of Her own heart. When She was done, Her 
chosen defenders stood on the breast of their Mother in whatever form they chose - 
two legs or four. The greatest champions were those formed of Man and Wolf. Luna 
leaned down again to give these her special blessing, giving them gifts born of her 
silvery light as she urged them to protect her sister with their strength and cunning. 
So charged, the heroes who would call themselves the Garou took their rightful 
places at the forefront of Gaia’s creation. 
The Cwo Worlbs of the Garou 
The nature of the world has changed since the earliest days. Where magic was 
once rampant and spirit imbued everything, animate or inanimate, today the material 
world and the world of spirit are held separate, touching together only in exceptional 
places or times. The division between the worlds is known as the Gauntlet, for at its 
worst it is truly a test of a werewolfs spirit to cross. 
The physical world needs no introduction. It is a world of predictable physical 
laws and demonstrable facts. It is a world that can be measured and comprehended 
with intellect, or beaten back and held at bay. Humanity is comfortable in this world 
- 
it is the only world that those living today have ever experienced. The Garou, with 
strength of both mind and limb, are supremely adapted for the material world. 
The Garou are not restricted to the hard world of humanity, however. The spirit 
world is present both above and below, overlaying and underlying the physical world. It 
is called the Umbra, the “shadow world,” since everything that is of significance in the 
material world casts its shadow into the world of spirit. The Umbra is not simply a 
I 
c 
t 
f 
2 


reflection of the physical world. The places, objects and denizens of the spirit world are 
fraught with meaning, but appearances there can be deceiving and the fabric of reality 
is mutable. There is much to be leamed about the true natures of things in the Umbra 
for those with the intuition and wisdom to puzzle through the layers of meaning. While 
the wisest humans may catch glimpses of the spirit world, the dual-natured Garou are 
able to cross between the worlds at will. Many refer to this act as “stepping sideways,” as 
they remain in the same place while the world changes around them. 
Inhabitants of the Spirit Worlb 
Though the denizens of the spirit world are many and varied, not tied to lines of 
descent and natural law like the creatures of the physical world, nevertheless the 
Garou have tried to categorize and classify them. After all, even the sages and mystics 
of the werewolves can use every advantage against the crafty and adaptable spirits. 
The greatest of the spirits are named the Celestines. Gaia, Luna and Helios the 
sun-god are foremost among these. In modem times these spirits are remote and not 
easily invoked - 
imagine the difficulty of a hearing a werewolf s howl over the din of 
all creation. Still, these godlike entities are often worshipped, some receiving the 
veneration of entire septs. 
The Incama rank next in the Garou pantheon. These spirits include the tribal 
totems who patronize the 12 tribes of the Garou Nation, and other spirits of similar 
power, such as representations of powerful natural forces like forest fires or the tides. The 
totem spirits that are bound to individual packs are avatars of the greater Incama spirits. 
The lesser spirits and elementals are classified as Jagglings and Gafflings, in order 
of their power. These spirits may serve the Celestines and Incama, or they may have 
small, defined territories and agendas of their own. Jagglings may display a wily 
intelligence; in contrast, Gafflings at best manage an animal cunning. Still, as natives 
to the Umbra, both can be useful allies or formidable opponents to the Garou. 
Wyld, Weaver, Wyrm: The G i a t  
As grand as all of Gaia’s creation is, it must exist within a framework. Werewolf 
sages posit the existence of three primal cosmic forces far greater than the Celestines, 
forces which provide the basis for all that is. Together, the three suspend the universe 
of the physical and spiritual worlds between them like a fragile vessel of great worth 
on a tripod stand. 
The Wyld is the first force, that of life and energy. The gentle breath and raw 
ferocity of the Wyld run rampant through the empty spaces where there is nothing to 
contain or channel them. Wyld is unshaped possibility, the energy of creation itself. 
The second of these is called the Weaver. The Weaver is the force of organiza- 
tion, wrapping everything that exists in her silken webs, creating order. Without the 
Weaver, the Wyld’s creation would have no permanence or stability. 
The final force is seen as the Wyrm, which exists to bring balance between the 
order of the Weaver and the chaos of the Wyld. The Wyrm is the force of decay and 
age, which breaks down old things to clear the way for new ones. 
This is how things should be, and how things were in the beginning; unfortunately, 
this is not how matters currently stand. At some point in the legendary past, the Weaver 
began to resent interference with her splendid plan. She plotted to trap the Wyrm within 
her strongest webs, restraining it so that it could no longer dismantle what she had so 
carefully built. She succeeded; the Wyrm, in the confines of her silken cocoon, slowly 
went mad. The Wyld spun heedlessly in its endless dance; it either did not notice the 
18 


Wyrm’s plight, or it simply did not care. The insane Wyrm now longs to destroy not only 
that which must be cleared away, but all that exists. The tripod which holds the fragile 
vessel of all creation is dangerously unsteady, and the Wyrm wishes to tip the balance 
and shatter the world altogether. As protectors of Gaia and thankless humanity, the 
Garou must stand between the Wyrm and the Apocalypse it lusts after. 
These three universal powers are not mere philosophy and conjecture. Each of 
them commands a vast array of spirits that inhabit the spirit world alongside -or in 
competition with - 
the spirits of the natural world. Weaver-spirits are orderly and 
industrious, spinning their webs to reinforce what exists and rebuild what has been 
broken. Spirits of the Wyld coruscate with energy, feeding from the disorder of a 
waterfall here or inflaming raw passions there. They are above all capricious as allies 
or as enemies. Servants of the Wyrm embody corruption. Some seem to be formed of 
the essence of pollution and malice, while many others are corrupted and possessed 
spirits who once served others, humans who have fallen into the Wyrm’s clutches - 
or worst of all, fallen Garou. 
Young werewolves are taught of these matters by their elders, and they see the 
devastation that the Wyrm causes all around them. But they also point to the crowded 
cities and the technological machines that swarm out of them to raze the Earth‘s 
remaining wild places - 
and these are creations of the Weaver. In the elders’ own 
story, they argue, doesn’t the Weaver’s ambition and madness cause the Wyrm’s 
insanity? In these days, some Garou argue that the greater enemy is the Weaver, 
pointing to civilization and technology gone out of control in today’s world. Others 
say that the best way to fight the Wyrm is to turn its own tools against it. The argument 
fuels many heated “discussions” between elders and youth. 
Che Impergium 
The Garou were created to guard Gaia’s creation. Understandably, they felt most 
strongly called to protect humanity and wolves - 
their spiritual cousins. The 
werewolves also needed to replenish their numbers, and pairings between werewolves 
created only deformed mules. So the Garou intermarried with humans and mated with 
wolves, and the strongest of their children inherited the abilities of the Garou. 
Eventually, the werewolves’ urge to protect their charges conflicted with their desire 
to keep the best mates for themselves. Each tribe led their Kin into seclusion, forcing 
humanity to band into towns and exiling wolves to remote forests. The towns boiled over 
into cities, and the werewolves took to culling the undesirables from their herds to keep 
humanity’s numbers under control. Where once the Garou were revered as heroes and 
protectors, humanity soon learned to fear them as terrors in the night. This tragedy, known 
as the Impergium, slowly built to a culmination over a period of 3000 years. 
Che War of Gage 
Heady with the power they usurped over humanity and the creatures of the wild, 
the Garou decided that they wished to be acknowledged as the greatest of Gaia’s 
protectors - 
after all, were they not Her favored children? The other werecreatures, 
the Sanga, refused to cede the werewolves the precedence they desired. The tribes of 
the Garou attacked the Sanga, some enraged beyond reason, others wishing to punish 
the Sanga for their insolence. An age of war followed; the tales of that era are full of 
blood and genocide, and although songs of the War ofRage are passed from storyteller 
to student, they are too shameful to be recited around the fire. Some of the Sanga were 
utterly eradicated; all suffered, and learned to despise the werewolves. 
19 


f
+
m
w
d
!
!
/
A
D
u
n
w
D
n
 
As the War ofRage carved its bloody path through the material and spirit worlds, 
the remaining Sanga found a strange ally in humanity. Men and women were pushed 
beyond the limits of endurance by the bloodthirsty behavior of those who were meant 
to be their guardians. They fought back against the marauding werewolves for the first 
time, and their numbers were enough to hold back the Garou onslaught. 
The Garou gathered, confused and dismayed at this turn of events. Some tribes 
argued to punish the wayward humans to bring them back into line. Other tribes 
pushed for peace, unwilling to turn so completely away from their role as humanity’s 
protectors. In the end, a compromise was reached: the werewolves would pull away 
from human society, leaving their former charges to rule themselves. The Garou would 
continue to serve as Gaia’s guardians, working in the wild places away from human 
sight. This agreement was called the Concord, and the wilderness society formed by 
the Garou was called the Western Concordiat. 
T h e  Aftermath o f  W a r  
Three thousand years of terror culminating in a spasm of violence left an 
inevitable mark on the human mind. Even among modem streets lined with sparkling 
skyscrapers, the sight of a werewolf in the imposing Crinos war form is enough to bring 
ancestral memories of fear flooding into the minds of witnesses. Panic usually ensues. 
The dread is so absolute the witnesses will later block out all memory of the incident, 
or ascribe it to a more “logical” cause -wild 
dogs, or terrorists in furry masks. The 
Garou call this effect on humans the Delirium. 
The Delirium is a mixed blessing. While it is a reminder of a bloody past that many 
werewolves would prefer to forget, it is also a useful tool in maintaining the secret 
existence that the Garou pledged to preserve in the Concord. This part of the pact is 
termed the Veil, and any werewolf that endangers the fragile fabric that separates the 
supernatural world of the Garou from human reality had better be ready to answer to 
her elders. In any case, it is dangerous to rely on the Delirium to the exclusion of 
discretion- 
exceptional or stubborn humans may overcome their inborn fears to see 
the truth of the situation, and this is not something that the Garou want. 
In the centuries since the Concord, humanity has continued to grow in numbers 
and to expand into wilderness areas. The wilderness that is left today seems to feel the 
threat to its existence, and has become even more thorny, parched, frigid or simply 
downright hostile in response. The werewolves are squeezed into the areas that 
remain, their own ranks declining as fewer and fewer cubs are born to their Kinfolk. 
Garou and humans are inevitably brought into contact as the world grows smaller. The 
Concord, which was meant to protect the humans from the Garou, now protects the 
Garou from the humans. Secrecy is vital to the war for Gaia. 
(zhe Eost anb the gallen 
Time and history have not been kind to the Garou. Once there were more tribes, 
spread out across the world, each following Gaia’s charge in its own way. All 
shepherded their Kin in their own way, all fought the Wyrm in their own way. 
Unfortunately, such ways often proved their undoing. 
T h e  Oescent of the W h i t e  Howlers 
The White Howlers were a proud and fierce tribe from the harsh lands of 
Scotland, kin to the stem Picts. The mastery of their native lands was not enough for 
the Howlers, though. Inorder toprove their bravery and worth, every Howlerfromcub 
20 


to venerated hero walked the Labyrinth of the Black Spiral to fight the Wvrm on its [S 
own ground and bring back trophies to parade before the other ;ribes. 
The White Howler’s great pride blinded them and brought about their downfall. 
Secure with their tales of glory and trophy halls, they did not see the Wyrm’s forces 
massing for attack. Even worse, some tragic ballads sing of betrayal, ofheroes so warped 
by constant exposure to the balefires of the Labyrinth that they turned on their own 
tribe. Either way, the end result was the same: The White Howlers were overwhelmed 
by the forces of corruption and dragged into the depths of the Labyrinth. Those who 
emerged were a twisted mockery of their former selves - 
their minds were shattered, 
their bodies mutated, bent completely to the Wyrm’s service. The proud White 
Howlers had become the Black Spiral Dancers. 
The White Howlers are forever gone, their Kin and their blood wiped from 
existence. The Black Spirals live in their stead, serving the Wyrm as prized and 
privileged agents. They live and breed in hidden labyrinthine Hives, perverted 
versions of Garou caerns. The Black Spirals prefer to take their Garou prey alive, so 
that they may be broken on the same dark spiral that spawned the tribe and corrupted 
into the service of the Wyrm. 
’ 
-- 
T h e  Mew Worlb ana the Croatan Sacrifice 
For many years, the lands of North America were at peace, unmolested by the 
struggles of Europe or European Garou. These were the lands guarded by the “Pure 
Ones,” the Uktena, Wendigo and Croatan. While the Impergium cut a bloody swath 
through the people of Europe, the Garou tribes of North America chose instead to 
teach the people under their care to live simply and in harmony with nature. There 
was still fighting in the Pure Lands - 
the people warred amongst themselves, and the 
War of Rage spilled over onto North American shores -but by comparison, the Pure 
Ones and their charges led peaceful lives. The baleful attention of the Wyrm was never 
drawn to the shores of the Pure Lands. 
All of this changed when the first European settlers landed. The settlers brought 
with them greed and war of a tenor that the natives ofNorth America had never before 
experienced. The settlement of Roanoke Island, where the British settlers starved 
within their walls, drew the fateful notice of the Wyrm. Full of the perverted desire to 
desecrate the unsullied New World, Eater-of-Souls, one of the three great Wyrm 
avatars, focused the suffering of the settlers ofRoanoke to bring itself into full physical 
manifestation. As the monstrous spirit writhed into existence on Roanoke Island, the 
Croatan tribe made a fateful choice. In honor of their pledge to the Earth Mother, the 
Croatansacrificed themselves todrive Eater-of-Souls back into the Malfeandepths- 
every man, woman and child, full-blooded Garou and half-blooded Kin. The only 
remembrance of their bravery and dedication are the songs of their Uktena and 
Wendigo cousins and the single word “Croatan” carved into a tree at the devastated 
settlement of Roanoke. 
The noble sacrifice of the Croatan was enough to force the Wyrm back, but it was 
not enough to hold back the tides of progress. The settlement of the New World 
continued at a frantic pace. European werewolves accompanied their kin to North 
America, and demanded lands and places at the native caems. When they were not 
pleased with what was offered, they took what they wanted with force and trickery. 
While the Wyrm never again gained a physical foothold, its destructive influence spread 
across the PureLands. TheUktenaand Wendigostillcall theothertribes “Wyrmcomers,” 
for their presence helped to spread the Wyrm’s influence from shore to shore. 


I 
Settling Australia : the Wunyip’s Oemise 
The Garou are proud and do not learn lessons easily. As European settlers, hungry 
for new lands, moved into the territories of Australia, their werewolf kin again came 
into conflict with the native Garou tribe, the Bunyip. The Bunyip were powerful in 
ways that the other tribes could not understand; their intimate contact with the 
vibrant Dreamtime spirit-world of the Australian continent gave them wisdom and 
confidence. Such wisdom came with a price. Rather than fight with their European 
cousins, the Bunyip simply withdrew into the Dreamtime and the harsh interior 
bushlands, leaving the other tribes to squabble among themselves. 
Then, the Wyrm whispered to the heart of a Garou, uttering that the Bunyip were 
to blame for the death of the Garou’s beloved sister. This confused Garou led the other 
tribes on a rampage against the Bunyip in revenge for a crime they did not commit. 
Some tales claim that the Wyrm revealed its mischief when the last Bunyip had been 
slain, thanking the Garou for accomplishing its work. 
Many Garoustillburn withshame torecall thathorrible time ofblindRage. They 
had done the Wyrm’s work well - 
the Bunyip were exterminated. Their Kin, the 
marsupial thylacines (or Tasmanian wolves), were pushed into extinction; even if a 
Bunyip had survived, there would be no Kin to breed with. The loss of the Bunyip 
remains one of the darkest times of Garou history. 
The Worlb ‘Zobay 
The End Times are here, and the Apocalypse draws ever closer. Garou sages map 
out the dire results of prophecy, and mystics test the tenor of the spirit world to the same 
conclusion. Gaia’s werewolves confront a test like no other they have faced before. 
The cities ofhumanity continue to expand. Even though the cities eat up more and 
more of the wild places and spew pollution into the rest to power technological toys and 
fuel the engines of progress, humanity still cannot find room for its poorest. These 
unfortunates are stacked like cordwood in gray and bleak places that have been raped of 
all resources and beauty, forced to watch as those more fortunate consume to excess. The 
Wyrm is here, writhing through the Weaver’s structures of cold steel and jagged glass. 
The last fortresses of the wild -places of pure and cruel beauty like the Amazon 
rainforest, the Alaskan wilderness and the Siberian tundra - 
have been cracked open 
for human exploitation. Contamination is inevitable as black oil flows through 
pipelines, trees are chopped down to make flimsy, substandard housing, and layers of 
earth are peeled away to pluck riches from the ground. 
The threat of the Wyrm is no longer simply giant monsters that can be rent apart 
with tooth and claw. The Wyrm has become quite sinister in its cleverness now, and 
it cloaks its depradations in the impenetrable shields of corporate law through its 
flagship, a mighty conglomeration called Pentex. Though the Garou know their 
enemy’s name, it has more heads than the legendary hydra. For every manufacturer or 
shipping company the werewolves bum down or blow up, another springs up in its 
place. Under the cover of subsidiary firms that produce everything from medicines to 
toys to video games to alchoholic beverages, Pentex sends fingers of corruption into 
an unsuspecting human populace. 
The past year saw a terrible herald to the Apocalypse -a new red star visible to 
those supernatural denizens of the World of Darkness; it is exceptionally bright in the 
Umbral skies. Most Garou are positive it is a sign of things to come and refer to it as 
Antehelion, the Eye of the Wyrm. 
22 


T h e  fgeparture of the 5targazers 
The Garou Nation has lost another tribe, bringing its number to 12. The tribal 
elders of the Stargazers have withdrawn from the Concordiat and returned to their 
homelands in the East, taking many of the young members of the tribe with them. Over 
the years, while the Stargazers worked with the Garou ofthe West to secure caerns and 
protect Kinfolk, their own lands fell to the Wyrm and many of their Kin perished as 
the Western Concordiat’s resources were spent elsewhere. Perhaps finally worn down 
by the losses, the Stargazers have moved to protect what remains of their heritage. 
They have found new allies in the Beast Courts of the enigmatic hengeyokai - 
the 
shapeshifters of the Eastern world, including the Sanga that the Western Garou tried 
to eliminate centuries ago. 
There are whispers that the Stargazers have another reason for leaving. Their 
Eastern cousins espouse a philosophy that equates the changing world to the turning 
of a wheel - 
implying chat the coming Apocalypse is not in fact the End Time, but 
simply the low point of a great cycle. This philosophy is not popular with the Western 
Garou. Some fear such thoughts mean that the Stargazers and the other hengeyokai 
will not fight when the great battle comes. Others cannot stand the idea that the great 
sacrifice they plan to make on the day ofApocalypse may have no meaning if the world 
turns on without them. 
The few remaining Stargazers - 
those who feel obligated to their packmates or 
who have vows to keep within the domains of the Concordiat - 
are treated with 
suspicion and mistrust or threatened outright. No more Stargazer cubs are brought to 
the septs of Western Garou for teaching- they are now reared among the hengeyokai. 
The f itany 
Garou tradition is a living thing - 
scratchings on paper are a recent invention and 
cannot capture the breadth and depth of the history of Gaia’s greatest children. The 
whole body of legends and cautionary tales is passed in oral ttadition from storyteller to 
storyteller, from judge to judge. No one storyteller knows every single tradition of the 
Garou, but there is one body of information that every werewolf knows, and every cub 
is expected to learn- the Litany. In its complete, unabridged form, the Litany contains 
not only the codified laws of the Garou according to the old ways, but poetic examples 
and morality tales illustrating each legal point. While the Fianna still gather in grand 
moots to recite the hours-long saga in its entirety, fewer and fewer young werewolves 
learn the Litany in all its glorious detail. Most are content to make do with the summary 
that is taught to the cubs and recited at moots - 
conveniently, the simplified laws are 
easier to bend than the exhaustive details provided by the full legal epic. 
Ciarou Shall Mot Mate With Garou 
The Law: Werewolves should mate only with humans or wolves. The offspring 
of two Garou, the metis, are born sterile and defective, physically deformed or even 
insane. In the worst cases, the mother dies giving birth to her Crinos form cub. These 
births are obviously cursed, and introducing even the hint of corruption into the 
Garou race is a crime against Gaia. Werewolves may fall in love - 
and they often do 
in the ballads sung by the Galliards - 
but even the clutches of passion are no excuse 
for this transgression 
The Reality: The permissive ways of homid society seem to be having an effect 
on the Garou. More metis are being born now than ever before. While some tribes 
23 
r 


claim to treat metis with respect, in truth they still face a life of hardship and scorn. 
Pragmatic Garou point out that, with the number of cubs born to Kinfolk on the 
decline, the metis might just be needed at the final battle of the Apocalypse. 
Combat the W y r m  Wherever It awells anb Whenever 
It dreebs 
The Law: The Wym and its minions are an obvious threat to humanity and to 
Gaia. Destroying that threat is the Garou’s very reason for existence, The quickest 
route to power and respect among werewolves, and the surest way to stall the coming 
Apocalypse, is to battle against the Wyrm. 
The Reality: The Garou are surrounded by enemies: Wyrmspawn, Weaver 
creations, humanity, even the remnants of the Sanga bent on revenge. And these are 
only the enemies on the outside. Convinced by the overwhelming certainty of 
prophecy that the End Times have begun, many werewolves turn their energies to 
cementing their own positions as best they can or climbing as high as they can before 
the world crumbles around them. 
Respect the Cerritory of Another 
The Law: The traditional Howl of Introduction is required whenever a werewolf 
approaches another’s territory. The holder of the territory may even require additional 
information before granting acceptance; Silver Fangs, for example, insist on establish- 
ing a visitor’sdegree of pure blood. To properly warn potential interlopers, Garou mark 
their territory with scent and scratched sigils. 
The Reality: While cacophonous howling and pissing on trees may work in rural 
areas, anywhere near an urban center such behavior may arouse suspicion. Some 
modem werewolves prefer a cordial phone call or a beeper message. Many others 
ignore introductions altogether and plead ignorance if caught trespassing. 
Accept an Honorable Surrenber 
The Law: Matters of leadership and honor are often settled by single combat. 
While this is a proper way to solve such problems, it is important that the combatants 
not die needless deaths -every warrior is needed. The loser of a duel loses no Renown 
for showing his throat in surrender to end a fight, and the winner is respected for his 
restraint. 
TheReality: The winner is respected for restraint because that restraint is so hard 
to exercise. While it may be natural for wolves to end hostilities with a simple bared 
throat, the Garou are creatures of supernatural rage. Once the fighting begins, 
anything can happen, and it unfortunately often does. Some Garou earn bad 
reputations by “accidentally” missing the surrender cues and ripping out a helpless 
rival’s throat. 
Submission to Chose of Higher Station 
The Law: Every leader must have followers. Rank and Renown ease relations 
within Garou society by outlining everyone’s place, with minimal fighting involved. 
Reasonable requests from higher-ranking Garou are expected to be obeyed. 
The Reality: The most useful authority is earned, not granted. While today’s 
cheeky cubs and cliath may respect their tribal elders, other higher-ranked Garou may 
find it necessary to reinforce their requests with physical force or some other sort of 
persuasion, at least until the young ones learn that their betters are above them for a 
24 


reason. Those werewolves who are unable to back UD their rank on occasion mieht as [s 
- 
well get used to running their own errands. 
‘Zhe Pirst Share of the Kill for the Greatest in Station 
The Law: The alpha feeds first from the kill. In Garou society, this law of the wild 
has expanded to include trophies taken from fallen enemies. Garou of greater renown 
are entitled to demand a greater share of the spoils. 
The Reality: In practice, the “first share” too often becomes “the whole pile.” 
While a pack may grudgingly accept doling out the rewards according to Renown if 
those of higher rank are earning their keep, an alpha who abuses this privilege will 
quickly find herself worn down by challenges from her packmates. 
ye 5hall Mot &at the Flesh of Humans 
TheLaw: During the years of the Impergium, this practice was not unusual. Since 
the agreement of the Concord, the eating of human flesh has been banned as a 
violation of the oath to protect humanity. Even worse, this act of near-cannibalism is 
an invitation to corruption by the Wyrm. 
The Reality: Werewolves are carnivores who occasionally lose control of their 
actions. More than one werewolf has discovered, perhaps to his horror, that fat lazy 
humans tasteparticularlygood. Others, like the RedTalons, make a habit ofdevouring 
humans unlucky enough to be found in their territories. Some also note with anger that 
there is no similar injunction against eating the flesh of wolves, who are as much kin 
as humans. 
Respect for Chose &neath ye: AI! Are of Gaia 
The Law: Out of respect for Gaia, who created the Garou to protect and in 
essence serve Her creation, werewolves are expected to treat every creature with the 
respect due its place in the natural order. Chivalry is a lofty ideal, and appropriate 
behavior worthy of Renown. 
The Reality: Garou of rank often use their own judgment to determine the 
“proper amount ofrespect” due to those beneath them, and that judgment is not always 
kind. While they may make life difficult for the unfortunates below them, a combina- 
tion of wolf instinct and human compassion usually keeps higher-ranked Garou from 
causing actual harm OT death - 
not that this is much consolation to the tormented. 
C h e  Veil Shall Mot 6 e  Lifteb 
The Law and the Reality: The Garou take this tenet of the Litany very seriously. 
Much more is at stake than respect for the ages-old pact of the Concord: in a world full 
of corrupt corporations, religious zealots, vampires and other threats, the Garou must 
walk carefully or bring down the wrath of countless enemies on their own heads. 
a
o
 Mot 5uffer ‘Zhy @eople to ‘ Z e d  C h y  Sickness 
The Law: A dignified death is a private death. This is the way of wild creatures 
who are mortally injured or simply too old. It preserves the resources of the group for 
those who can best benefit from them, rather than wasting them to extend a lost life. 
The Reality: It is difficult to make such a cold step away from life toward death. 
The Children ofGaia speak out openly against this part of the Litany, preferring to care 
for their elders and mortally wounded until they expire. Many other Garou compro- 
mise by returning to human or wolf society to live out their declining years. 
25 


C h e  Leaber M a y  dfe Challengeb at Any T i m e  buring 
d“eace 
The Law: For the good of the pack, a weak alpha must not be allowed to remain 
in control. If no danger immediately threatens, any Garou of sufficient rank may 
challenge the leader for her position. A staredown, duel or gamecraft challenge results, 
and the alpha must cede her authority ifshe loses. Inappropriate or frivolous challenges 
- 
for example, a cub challenging the sept leader - 
may be rebuffed with no loss of 
Renown. 
The Reality: A particularly powerful leader will be impossible to best in a 
challenge - 
those below her will have to learn to live with her decisions. Unscrupu- 
lous alphas may resist challenges, always insisting that dangers lurk around every 
corner. Of course, keeping power in this way makes life more difficult when someone 
else eventually takes over and the paybacks start. 
T h e  Leaber W a y  Hot dfe Challengeb buring Wartime 
The Law: The strength of the Garou is the pack. Pack tactics are necessary to 
bring down the great monsters or hordes of smaller spawn that the werewolves may 
encounter; even one pack member’s lapse in obedience may have dire consequences 
for the rest of his pack. 
The Reality: Garou leaders are just as fallible as any others. A werewolf who 
violates his alpha’s orders with good results may escape punishment for this breach of 
the Litany. If the results are bad, the alpha’s poor tactics won’t help the offender’s case. 
Cases involving magical control or Wyrm possession may also be excused - 
so long 
as they only happen once. 
y e  Shall Cake n o  Action Chat Causes a Caern to f i e  Violateb 
The Law and the Reality: This tenet is even more strictly enforced than the 
protection of the Veil. Caems are sacred sites, and to cause the desecration of such a 
holy place withorwithout intent to harm is acrime worthy ofthe severest punishment. 
The Sept 
There are places where the boundary between the material world and the world 
of spirit is naturally thin. In these rare sites, spiritual energy wells up like a spring, just 
waiting to be tapped. These places are sacred to the Garou, who call them caems. The 
power available from a caem is not only desirable to the werewolves; other creatures, 
from the strange and wanton fae to the corrupt minions of the Wyrm, want the magical 
energy for themselves. The Garou must always be on guard, ready to protect their holy 
sites from exploitation and desecration. 
By tradition, the groups of Garou who gather around caems organize themselves 
as septs. The earliest septs formed around the oldest caems usually found in tribal 
homelands; these septs were composed of one tribe, and many of them remain 
dominated by those ancestral tribes to this day. As werewolves spread around the 
globe, they found new sites of power far from any one tribe’s homeland. The septs that 
formed around these new caems have a far more varied membership, and that trend 
continues today. Such septs always suffer through some tribal maneuvering and 
politicking since the Garou are relatively unused to intertribal coordination. Any 
26 
, 
k 


degree of cooperation is a light in these dark times, however, since the Garou have no 
chance of defeating their multitudinous enemies unless they work together. 
Septs serve many vital purposes besides the paramount protection of caerns. The 
sept acts as a vessel for Garou culture, preserving legends and traditions as elders pass 
on and packs leave never to return. Werewolves rarely grow old gracefully; those who 
have lived long enough to achieve the honor of elder status rarely have the stamina 
or inclination to travel or quest. These elders settle at septs, lending their formidable 
but fading strength to their protection and making their experience and wisdom 
available to those who would learn from them. Packs of young Garou act as the eyes, 
ears and fists of the elders, roving around and among caerns to on simple errands or 
missions of vital importance. 
Septs are also important waypoints for traveling packs and places where these 
travelers can meet with both fellow wanders and locals to share news of their travels. 
With the permission of the sept’s elders and the paying of the proper chiminage, the 
caern’s mystics can create a moon bridge between caerns. These spirit paths are faster 
than traveling through the physical world and safer than traveling unaided through the 
Umbra. A chiminage payment is usually required at the point of arrival as well; in both 
cases, the payment may be as minor as a stirring recounting of the pack‘s journey or as 
significant as a dangerous jaunt into the nearby Umbra to bring back a valuable item. 
Various elders oversee these functions of the septs. The sept leader, who must be 
a personage of great patience and charisma, coordinates the efforts of the other sept 
positions and organizes the local packs. The position of Master of the Rite is awarded to 
the highest-ranking Theurge; he is responsible for the sept’s daily rites, the care of the 
spiritually sensitive center of the caem and the judicious tapping of the caern’s power. 
The Caem Warder organizes the patrols of the bawn - 
the protected perimeter of the 
caem - 
and is responsible for dealing with any intrusions. Traveling Garou may expect 
to find these three positions filled in every sept, but some septs are so large as to require 
additional administration - 
or, perhaps they simply have more cooks who insist on 
stirring the pot. These septs may institute additional positions: the Den Mother or Den 
Father, who oversees the training of the cubs; the Master Storyteller who composes the 
history of the sept; or the City Beta, who oversees the activities of anearby city and those 
Garou who are active within. These are merely examples; there can be a new position 
for any werewolf who can convince her sept leader that she is invaluable. 
- 
Woof 5 
Day-to-day life in a sept may include onerous tasks, such as patrolling the bawn, 
teaching young cubs or propitiating the local spirits. Septs are frequently host to far 
more exciting events -gatherings 
of large numbers of Garou called moots. Moots are 
the soul of the sept, satisfying the Garou’s social nature and rededicating them to their 
common causes and sacred trusts. Werewolves who miss too many moots are treated 
with distrust until they remedy the situation; the sept has no place for those who are 
not willing to pitch in and help in some fashion. 
Every auspice has a role in even the simplest moot. Ahroun guard the gathering 
against creatures drawn to the surge of spiritual energy. Galliards sing the old legends 
and spread the latest news. The rules of protocol and precedence are adjudicated by 
the Philodox. Theurges call upon the power of the caern and welcome great spirits to 
attend the proceedings. Finally, the Ragabash keep the evening running smoothly by 
heckling those who would speak without thought - 
or simply for too long. A well- 
27 


run moot is a crucible of cooperation; a sept that celebrates its moots in fine fashion 
usually acts in concert in other areas as well. 
Renown ana flank 
The recognition of a Garou’s deeds and her standing in society is decided by her 
sept. A werewolf who is anruth - 
who does not claim membership in a particular sept 
- 
must find a sept willing to recognize the worthiness of her actions. Without the 
backing of the sept and the performance of the proper rituals, the spirits of the Umbra 
refuse to acknowledge the young hero’s deeds, and she will not be taught the 
appropriate Gifts or receive the proper welcome at other caems. 
This rigid hierarchy of rank is not imposed by bureaucracy, but by instinct. Like 
a member of a wolf pack, a werewolf is only comfortable when he knows to whom he 
should defer and who he may command. The tradition of rewarding renown for 
notable deeds frees the resources of the sept from constant challenges of the elders’ 
authority, and directs that boundless youthful energy toward constructive tasks. The 
elders conserve their energies for necessary endeavors, and the young are generally 
content to earn their way up. 
In informal situations, the differences in rank between two Garou are usually 
observed by deferential body postures and the sequence of conversation. If the 
difference in rank is great, it is of course prudent to be as polite as possible. This 
involves traditional forms of address, as follows: 
Cubs are the youngest Garou, those who have recently undergone their First 
Change and not yet completed a Rite of Passage. Cubs are expected to defer to 
everyone, but they are also granted a great deal of leeway in their actions - 
after all, 
they have a lot to learn. 
On completing the Rite of Passage, cubs become cliath. They are expected to 
form packs and take a useful role in the community. As inexperienced as they are, some 
packs of cliath realize their worth and take advantage of this time to travel and learn 
at many septs. 
Cliath earn the rank offostern when they have gained sufficient renown to serve 
as credible emissaries between caems. At this point, packs of fostem are expected to 
settle down for at least short periods of time to dedicate their services to a particular 
caern. 
Adren graduate from the rank of fostern when they begin to eam the lesser 
political positions of a caern. These responsibilities usually force them to restrict their 
wandering to a few nearby caerns. 
The athro, a rank ahead of the adren, are the staunch defenders of caerns and the 
political movers and shakers of septs. When athro gather to take on a quest, the 
resulting legends are guaranteed to be epic. 
Athro must live through many such adventures to earn the rank of elder. 
Werewolves of this rank do not need to hold powerful sept or tribe positions to garner 
the respect they have so obviously earned. 
Che f l a k  
The basic unit of Garou society is the pack. Werewolves have an instinctive urge 
to band together that is almost overwhelming; Ronin, those few who have chosen to 
leave Garou society or who have been forced out, are the rare exception to the rule. 
The basic advantage of life in a pack is simple: a coordinated team can succeed at feats 
28 


\- 
that individuals working separately would fail to accomplish. A pack of wolves can \ A 
bring down a one-ton moose - 
an individual wolf would simply earn a crushing hoof- 
blow to the head. A pack of werewolves can infiltrate a corporate compound, disable 
the security force and destroy the evil spirits infesting the machinery- an individual 
werewolf would simply be shot full of lead, or worse. 
Garou packs consist of two to 12 werewolves. It is usually considered auspicious 
- or at least convenient - for each auspice to be represented in the pack‘s 
membership, but this is not always necessary or even possible. Some packs may consist 
entirely of members drawn from one tribe, but this is very rare. As septs become 
increasingly more diverse, the packs that form within their boundaries naturally 
diversify as well. As the end times draw near, this increase in cooperation among the 
12 Tribes is a source for great hope. Pack bonds run deeper than simple friendship; with 
time, the strength of those bonds can help undo the damage of centuries of tribal 
rivalry and stereotyping. 
The strength of a pack‘s bond is drawn from its shared purpose. Unlike a wolf 
pack, which exists solely to provide its members with survival, the members of a Garou 
pack devote themselves to a higher cause or a specific goal. That goal may be short- 
term, such as “Quest into the Umbra to find a Pathstone for the sept.” Or, it may be 
a long-term or even unobtainable goal, such as “Hunt down and destroy all minions 
of the Wyrm.” Either way, the pack‘s goal provides a focus for the werewolves’ ferocity 
and a common ground for agreement, both useful services among the passionate and 
fractious Garou. 
The pack bond is further strengthened by the totem spirit that is bound 
ceremoniously to the group. Many totems are the spirits of natural animals, such as 
Falcon, or of mythic beasts, like Unicorn. Others are anthropomorphic representa- 
tions of powerful forces or concepts, such as Grandfather Thunder or a City Father. 
The dedication of the totem avatar and the pack is mutual: the spirit serves as a 
guardian, an Umbral guide and often grants the pack certain abilities tied to its nature. 
In return, the pack pledges itself to uphold the totem spirit’s goals and priorities - 
packs which fail in this regard will quickly find themselves on the outs with a majority 
of the denizens of the spirit world. 
Acquiring a totem is not a simple matter. In earlier times, elder theurges could 
perform the appropriate ritual call, and a spirit guide would answer. In modem days, 
the spirits are more wary. A new pack may be chosen specifically to suit a given totem: 
for example, gathering only fierce warriors to form a pack dedicated to Fenris. In cases 
where an existing pack chooses a totem to beseech for aid, they may find themselves 
required to prove themselves worthy by performing an Umbral quest or some other 
rigorous trial. 
The leadership of a Garou pack is somewhat fluid. This again contrasts with a 
traditional wolf pack in which the alpha retains leadership until a stronger candidate 
deposes him. The Garou must face a much broader array of challenges than the hunt 
for food and defense of territory; they must puzzle out spirit riddles, slip past spidery 
sentries or hold their own in boastful tale-telling. No one leader can be best suited for 
every trial a Garou pack will face. The wise alpha defers his leadership to the pack 
member best suited to the given situation. Typically, an experienced pack can make 
these transitions of leadership seamlessly - 
every member of the pack knows the 
others’ strengths and weaknesses. Disagreements over leadership occasionally occur, 
of course, especially in newly formed packs. In times of peace, these disagreements are 
resolved in the usual manner - 
staredowns, tests of gamecraft or duels. In the heat of 
29 
i 
I 
i 
f 


conflict, the pack must make the best of the situation and leam for the future or face 
the ire of their elders for breaking the Litany. 
A pack may not last forever. Packs may disband on good terms with the 
accomplishment of their stated goal. In these instances, some or all of the pack 
members may opt to remain together, choosing a new goal and perhaps even a new 
totem. Packs may also fall apart over power struggles or irreconcilable differences - 
these occasions are frowned upon, but certainly not unheard of among the stubborn 
Garou. Individual members may leave the pack-death 
is apart of life for werewolves 
at war - 
and others may join, but as long as the pack‘s goal remains the same, the 
spiritual nature of the pack is relatively unaffected. If the pack dissolves for any of the 
reasons above, its totem spirit is released with great ceremony and thanks. 
Eexicon 
Common @arlance 
These words are in common use among the Garou. 
Anchorhead: Elusive spirit gates between the Near Umbra and the Deep Umbra. 
(See Membrane. ) 
Apocalypse: The prophetic revelation of the end of times. In Garou mythology, 
it has come to mean the final battle with the Wyrm - 
a battle many believe they are 
fated to lose. It is generally accepted that the present time is beginnings of the 
Apocalypse. 
Auspice: The moon phase under which a Garou is born; it often determines her role 
in Garou society and influences her personality and tendencies. The auspices are: 
Ragabash (New Moon; Trickster), Theurge (Crescent Moon; Seer), Philodox (Half 
Moon; Judge), Galliard (GibbousMoon;MoonDancer), Ahroun (FullMoon; Warrior). 
Bane: Wyrmspirits ofmany twisted and evil types. Scrag, Kalus and Psychomachiae 
are among the more common types, but endless mutation is possible. 
Bawn: The boundary area around a caem, which is patrolled and carefully 
monitored against intrusion, even by other Garou. 
Blight: A corrupted area in either the spirit or material world. These tainted 
areas spawn Banes. 
Breed: The ancestry of a Garou, whether homid (human), lupus (wolf) or metis 
(born of two Garou). 
Caern: A sacred place where the magic of the spirit world wells into the physical 
plane. Some serve as centers of Garou septs, while others are in the control of other 
supernatural groups. 
Celestine: The greatest spirits, godlike in their power. Those worshipped include 
Gaia (the Earth), Luna (the Moon) and Helios (the Sun). 
Concolation: The largest Garou moots; the matters discussed at these great 
gathers of tribes concern the entire Nation of Garou. 
Concord, the: The compromise reached by the tribes of the GarouNation which 
ended the Impergium; its traditions are still enforced today. 
Corruption: The Wyrm’s power of destruction twisted into decay and depravity; 
also, the resulting effects of the Wyrm’s actions. In the present age, it commonly refers 
to the pollution and ecological ruin humans inflict upon the environment. 
Crinos: The half-wolf, half-human war form of the Garou. 
30 


Deep Umbra: The Umbral world beyond the protection of the Membrane. The 
further a-Deep Umbra traveler ventures from thhe Gaia Realm, the more tenuous 
“reality” becomes. 
Delirium: The ancestral memories ofhumans, which cause madness and memory 
loss in those who look upon a Garou in Crinos form. 
Domain: A mini-Realm in the Umbra, usually connected to a larger Realm in the 
Deep Umbra. 
Feral: Slang term for lupus. 
Fomori (singular “fornor”): Humans or animals corrupted and mutated by the 
Wyrm; common enemies of the Garou. Some are corrupted unaware, but many 
humans make a choice to become fomori in exchange for power. 
Gaffling: A simple spirit servant of a Jaggling, Incarnaor Celestine. Gafflings are 
rarely sentient . 
Gaia: The Earth and related Realms, both physical and spiritual; the Earth 
Goddess, and the Mother of the Garou. 
Garou: The term werewolves use for themselves. 
Gauntlet: The barrier between the physical world of Earth and the spirit world 
of the Umbra. It is strongest around cities and technology, and weakest around caerns. 
Harano: A state of bitter depression that afflicts werewolves; weeping for that 
which is not yet lost. Garou in the grip of Harano are debilitated and often die if they 
cannot recover their will to live. 
Hispo: The near-wolf form of the Garou. 
Homid: A Garou of human ancestry. Occasionally used disdainfully by ferals 
Impergium: In prehistory, the period of 3000 years during which strict popula- 
Incarna: A class of spirits that ranks below the Celestines in power and includes 
Jaggling: A spirit servant of an Incarna or Celestine. 
Kenning: The empathic calling some Garou perform when howling. 
Kinfolk: Humans or wolves related to the Garou by blood; they are preferred 
Klaive: A fetish dagger or sword, usually of great spiritual potency and nearly 
Litany: The code of laws kept by the Garou, passed down in oral tradition. 
Lupus: A Garou of wolf origin. 
Membrane, the: The barrier between the Near and Deep Umbra. Travel through 
it must be done at an Anchorhead (see above). Alternatively, the Garou can bypass the 
Membrane through the Dream Zone. 
Metis: The sterile and often deformed offspring of two Garou; they are generally 
reviled by Garou society. 
Moon Bridge: A path established between two caerns; it must be renewed with 
spiritual energy during moots and called open with a Rite or Gift when needed for 
travel. 
Moot: Gatherings of the Garou for any variety of social, political or religious 
functions; most take place at caerns. 
Mule: Slang for metis. 
(e.g., “That boy fights like a homid”). 
tion quotas were enforced on all human populations. 
the totems of the 12 Tribes. 
mates and those most likely to birth Garou cubs. 
always made of silver. 
31 


2) 
Near Umbra: The spirit world surrounding the Gaia Realm, just beyond the 
Pack: A small group of Garou bound to each other by ties of friendship and 
Penumbra: “Earth‘s Shadow”; the spirit world directly surrounding the physical 
Protectorate: The territory claimed and patrolled by a pack or sept. 
Reaching: Traveling into the spirit world (see Stepping Sideways). 
Realms: The worlds of consistent reality within the Tellurian. Earth is referred 
Ronin: A Garou who has chosen to leave Garou society or who has been forced 
Sanga: Garou term for shapeshifters other than werewolves; many are presumed 
Sept: The group of Garou who live near and tend an individual caem. 
Stepping sideways: Entering the spirit world (see Reaching). Many elders 
Tellurian: The whole of reality. 
Totem: A spirit ceremonially joined to a tribe or pack, which is representative 
of its inner nature. A tribal totem is an Incama, while a pack totem is an Incama avatar 
(a Jaggling equivalent). 
Triat, the: The Wyld, the Weaver and the Wyrm. The trinity of primal cosmic 
forces. 
Tribe: A larger community of Garou whose members are often bound by similar 
totems and lifestyles. Each tribe has an ancestral homeland and a wealth of tradition. 
Umbra: The spirit world, the “shadow” of the physical world. 
Veil, The: A poetic term for the protection of the Delirium. 
Ways, the: The traditions of the Garou. 
Weaver, the: Manifestation and symbol of order and pattern. Computers, 
science, logic and mathematics are examples of the Weaver’s influence on the material 
plane. 
Wyld, the: Manifestation and symbol of pure change and unshaped potential; 
the chaos of transmutation and elemental force. 
Wyrm, the: Manifestation and symbol ofevil, entropy and decay in Garou belief. 
Vampires are often manifestations of the Wyrm, as are toxic waste and pollution. 
Wyrmhole: A place that has been spiritually defiled by the Wyrm; invariably a 
location of great corruption. 
Penumbra. 
common goals; the basic unit of Garou society. 
world. Many, but not all, terrain features have reflections there. 
to as the Gaia Realm, or simply the Realm. 
out. Life is bleak and harsh for these “lone wolves.” 
extinct. 
consider this term flippant and disrespectful. 
Slang 
Younger Garou frequently use these terms, either out of ignorance, or in a 
Cadaver: A derogatory term for a vampire. 
Flock, The: All of humanity, particularly Kinfolk (see above). 
Gremlin: A malevolent spirit. 
Leech: See Cadaver. 
Run: A ritual hunt or revel that takes place at the conclusion of a moot. 
Sheep: Humans. 
concerted effort to distinguish themselves from their elders. 
/ 
32 


Throat: To best another in ritual combat. Used as a verb (e.g., “I throated his [$ 
sorry butt!”). 
018 Form 
These words hail from the distant past of the Garou and display their Fianna 
origins. They are no longer used frequently. However, all Garou know these terms. 
Adren: A pupil or a student who learns from a mentor. The rank betweenfostern 
and athro (see below). 
Airts: The magical paths within the spirit world (e.g., Spirit Tracks, Moon Paths, 
etc.). 
Aiding: A journey into the spirit world. 
Anamae: “Soul-friend”; most often a bond with a pack totem. 
Anruth: An individual Garou or pack who travels from caern to caem but is 
Athro: Teacher, mentor. The rank between adren and elder. 
Awen: The sacred Muse, the creative impulse. Moon Dancers periodically go on 
spirit quests for her, but she has never been found. 
Brugh: Any sort of mystic place, whether a Garou caern or a Wyrmhole. Often 
a glade or cave located somewhere in the wilderness. 
Charach: A Garou who sleeps with another Garou or has done so in the past. 
Often used as a word of anger. 
Chiminage: A form of “favors done for services rendered.” A werewolf may 
perform a task as chiminage in order to repay a spirit for teaching him a Gift, or to repay 
a sept for allowing him to use their caern. 
Cliath: A young Garou, not yet of any standing rank. This precedes the rank of 
fostern (see below). 
Fostern: A Garou’s pack brothers and sisters; those who are family by choice. 
Also the rank between cliath and adren (see above), populated by Garou who have 
achieved some renown but not yet entered into the political arena. 
Gallain: The Kinfolk of the Garou - 
those humans and wolves who are relations 
and are not prone to Delirium but who are not actual werewolves. 
-ikthya: “Of the Wyrm”; a suffix appended to a name. 
Inceptor: A Garou who guides another through a rite. An inceptor is also called 
a ritemaster. 
Kinain: The relationship among Garou who are related by blood through an 
ancestor. This term of endearment and pride is never used when referring to metis. 
Moon-Calf: Idiot, simpleton. 
Pericarp: The Near Umbra around each Realm. 
Phoebe: An Incama of Luna, representing the Moon. 
Praenomen: The guardian spirit of a pack. 
-rhya: “Greater in station”; a suffix appended to a name. 
Urrah: Garou who live in the city; also, the tainted ones. 
-yuf: “Honored equal”; a suffix appended to a name. 
bound to none of them. 
33 


The man who entered the bawn looked tired, wearing clothes that still 
had a lot of dust in them. His long dark hair was pulled back in a single 
ponytail, his only adornment a disk of green jade on a leather thong. He had 
looks that did not “date” him- he could have been 25 or 55. Jackie and Marja 
considered him, then threw sidelong glances at each other. Marja pursed her 
lips in appraisal, then whispered to Jackie: “That kind would make you forget 
the Litany at two in the morning.” Jackie barely smothered her nervous giggle. 
Pete could only stare in disbelief. Was Soren back? back for good? 
T h e  sept leaders, however, put the lie to that hope. Every time Soren 
attempted to speak with one of them, there would be a contingent of Garou 
blocking his path. He turned to the sept alpha, and found himself facing a wall 
of Crinos and Glabro Garou, none of whom appeared exceptionally friendly. 
His patient expression did not change, and he finally said, “If Koa is behind 
there, I have a message for him.” 
There was a barked command, and the bodyguard reluctantly moved 
aside. The traveler stepped closer to speak in low tones, much to Pete’s 
disgruntlement. He strained his ears for what was happening, only to get 
cuffed by the Den Father for eavesdropping. The crowd continued to thicken 
around Soren, and Pete felt fear flash across his breastbone. 
Message delivered, Soren turned away and started out. Pete couldn’t let 
it go any longer, and reached out to snag the man’s shirt tail. “Soren-rhya.. ..” 
The collective snarl and bristling around the bawn made Jackie yelp a 
little in fright; even Marja seemed a little cowed by the hostility charging the 
air. Soren merely smiled warmly and replied, “Hello, Peter. I see you have 
grown much since I left.” 
“You-you’re coming back, right?” Pete hated to sound like he was 
begging, but it was Soren.. .. 
The traveler glanced around at the expressions of the sept, and shook his 
head quietly. He squeezed Pete’s shoulder warmly. “Gaia go with you, Peter - 
I know you will make me proud.” Without a backward glance at the rest of the 
sept, Soren walked past Pete and out of the caem. Pete could only stare after 
him, feeling something in him walking out behind Soren. 
Later that night, Jackie and Marja found him. Pete was irked about the 
privacy, but decided it wasn’t worth fighting - 
they’d have come looking 
eventually. Jackie asked: “SO who was he?” 
“Soren Seek-Sky, one of the few who ever gave me anything good in this 
place.” 
“And why is he persona non grata?” asked Marja. “You’d think he was 
Spiral.” 
Pete’s voice dropped, and he glanced around him quickly before answer- 
ing. “No, but for most of the sept, he might as well be.” 
The two young women looked at each other briefly, then at Pete. “Which 
is.. . ?” 
“Stargazer.” 


The 12 Tribes of the Garou Nation represent a broad swath of global 
culture; although the Garou are unquestionably not human, they come from 
at least half human stock, and so their society reflects that of the homids that 
swarmover the planet. Each tribe has its own relationship withGaia, the Triat 
and the other spirits of the Umbra, and the 12 together have a complex web 
of political interrelationships. 
A werewolfs tribe is not the sole determiner of her personality, but 
personality and tribe often coincide. 
The section below describes the 12 Tribes of the Western Concordiat, 
their histories, strengths and weaknesses, common attitudes and relationships 
with the other tribes. 
/ 
36 


Aboption 
Garou are not necessarily born into tribes. Each werewolf must be 
adopted by a tribal totem at some point around the time of his Rite of 
Passage. For the vast majority of Garou, this is a swift process in which 
one is inducted into his werewolf parent’s tribe (generally the mother’s 
tribe in the case of metis). But it does not always go so smoothly. The 
Black Furies will not adopt male homid or lupus Garou; the Silver Fangs 
will not accept a Garou of low birth; the Red Talons will not accept a 
Garou born to homids, even should that one be of Talon ancestry (a 
very rare thing!). If a cub is rejected by his natural tribe, he will likely 
be adopted by another (the Bone Gnawers, Fianna and the Children of 
Gaia are not usually picky about a cub’s upbringing). 
A rare cub might reject his “birth tribe” and petition another tribe for 
membership. Again, while this isn’t exactly common, it is not unheard of. 
Perhaps a child is born of Glass Walker lineage but feels the pull of the road 
common to the Silent Striders; conversely, perhaps a young Garou of the 
Uktena finds an affinity to Weaver-things and wishes to join the Glass 
Walkers. If all associated elders are willing, the cub should be free to move 
to the tribe he finds most welcoming. In the case of lost cubs, the cub should 
be steered toward the tribe that most befits his own nature, though tribal 
politics may well play a role here. 
In game terms, such a shift in tribe should occur before the character 
has learned any tribal Gifts. He should only start with Gifts from his 
adopted tribe, not his birth tribe, as he was never accepted by his birth 
tribe’s totem spirit. The character gets no special affinity for his birth 
tribe’s totem spirit or Gifts (at least not in game terms), and should be 
considered in all ways to be a member of his adopted tribe. 
I 
I 
37 


I 
I 
{ 
I 
” d d c k  Furies 
Hailing from ancient Greece and undoubtedly responsible for that land’s 
legendary Amazons and Maenads, the Black Furies tribe consists almost 
entirely of female Garou. The only males that are welcome are metis, and even 
then only those born to the tribe; a male metis of another tribe joining the 
Furies is simply unheard of. 
Many of the other tribes - 
particularly the Get of Fenris and Shadow 
Lords - 
write off the Black Furies as nothing more than “warrior women,” but 
nothing could be farther from the truth. The Black Furies do not see 
themselves as mere warriors: They are a force of nature, acting 
to right wrongs done against women and, through them, 
Gaia. Men who do not understand the proper way of 
things might commit these wrongs, or the Wyrm itself 
might cause them. To the Furies, it makes no differ- 
ence: The souls of these defilers’ victims cry out for 
retribution, and they are retribution’s vehicle. 
The Furies both defend and aggressively seek 
out Wyld sites that might make suitable caems. 
Their own caems are reputed to be treasure 
troves of ancient fetishes and powerful talens, 
but few members of other tribes can get close 
enough to discover the truth of this; many Furies 
are particularly suspicious of the Silver Fangs, 
ords and Get of Fenris for their “curios- 
such rumors. One particular camp of the 
:s, the Freebooters, scours the world for 
that could serve as caems once the sites 
y purified. They succeed only rarely, 
1 success the cause for great celebration. 
End Times, young Black Furies have 
eize territory inside large cities, hoping 
I impact on women’s lives there, in the 
Le Wyrm. Whether they will succeed or 
to be seen, but many tribal elders wam 
amity should their daughters and nieces 
on such a path; they believe the Furies’ 
portant role is not as counselor and 
o the homids, but as avenger. 
’ribal Totem: Pegasus 
Advantage: The Furies can regain one 
i t  Willpower Trait by spending a day at 
ite holy to Gaia, such as a caem or glade. 
”1 
1 
8 


They can continue to regain spent Traits, one per day, until they have reached [is 
their maximum. 
Drawback: The Black Furies are more likely to frenzy when angered by 
men than they are by women (or even by sexless spirits). They must expend 
an additional Willpower Trait to avoid frenzy when angered by men. This 
Drawback does not impact a Fury’s day-to-day interactions with men; it only 
affects them when frenzy is a danger. 
Backgrounds: No restrictions 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Breath of the Wyld, Heightened Senses, Sense 
WYm 
Wolf Form: In Crinos, Hispo and Lupus forms, a Black Fury’s fur is black 
or a very deep gray; some exhibit white, gray or silver highlights. 
Organization: Females dominate the Black Furies’ tribal hierarchy; 
although male metis are permitted to remain in the tribe, they rarely take 
positions of authority. The ruling body of the tribe is known as the Outer 
Calyx, consisting of 13 veteran Black Furies from across the world who 
coordinate tribal activities on a global scale. The Outer Calyx is answerable 
only to the Inner Calyx, five elder Furies rumored to be selected by the Incama 
Artemis herself. 
Habitaerotectorate: Since legendary times, the Furies have acted to 
defend women and to punish those who violate the natural way of things; they 
hold fast to the former part of their protectorate more than the latter in these 
final days. They have a strong affinity for the ancient, wild and sacred places, 
and will defend those to the last, but in modern days have taken up arms in 
the cities to better strike at their foes’ hearts. Their Kin are both male and 
female, but males are more likely to be tasked with building influence in 
mortal society, and some are viewed as little better than breeding stock. 
39 


I 
’ 
6 o n e  Gnawers 
If you asked the member of any other tribe which Garou are furthest from 
Gaia, fingers would unerringly point to the Bone Gnawers, who live in sewers, 
garbage dumps and slums in the greatest cities of the World of Darkness. But 
the Bone Gnawers know the truth. Gaia isn’t just in the virgin timberland or 
at the top of a craggy peak: Gaia is in the city, too. Unlike their cousins, the 
Bone Gnawers fight for Gaia every day. The Wyrm is at its strongest in the 
heart of great cities, and so it is there that Gaia is at Her weakest and in most 
The Bone Gnawers can’t help the material fact of their 
situations. They don’t have decent homes or much money; 
they live on the streets, alongside the homeless, the 
crazies, the muggers and the Wyrm-things. The Gnaw- 
ers are self-reliant, though: They have found their 
own places of power amid the trash, and they can 
create fetishes and talens out of discarded junk. 
Social standing among the Bone Gnawers has 
very little to do with one’s wealth or combat 
prowess and everything to do with one’s abil- 
ity to provide for those in need and combat 
the Wyrm in less obvious fashions. That isn’t 
to say that the Bone Gnawers can’t fight 
en they have to; the tribe’s totem spirit is 
t. A Gnawer Ahroun fights as well as any 
other tribe’s warrior does, and he is entirely 
willing to fight dirty. 
As a group) the Bone Gnawers are on 
moderately good terms with the Glass 
Walkers - 
though they surely do not 
travel in the same circles, each group has 
something the other can use. The Gnawers 
have an ear to the streets at just about all 
times, and the Walkers have nearly un- 
matched material resources. Most Red Talons 
and many Silver Fangs revile the Bone Gnaw- 
ers, wishing that the tribe would just go away. 
Most of the other tribes grudgingly tolerate 
Rat’s adopted children, leaving them to fight 
heir war as they see fit. 
Tribal Totem: Rat 
Advantage: The Bone Gnawers are consum- 
mate survivors and spies. Once per session, they 
may gain an Influence Trait at a rate of one per 
need of defense. 
40 -7 
Y 


I w 
Rank for the purposes of gathering information. These Influences are not 
necessarily people, but reflect the Bone Gnawers’ knack of “knowing where 
to look.” 
Drawback: The Bone Gnawers face considerable scorn from the rest of 
Garou society as they are on the bottom of the totem pole. They face a one- 
Trait penalty in all Social Challenges with other Garou. 
Backgrounds: Lacking respectable upbringing and history, the Bone 
Gnawers are forbidden to select Ancestors, Pure Breed or Resources. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Cooking, Scent of Sweet Honey, Tagalong 
Wolf Form: Bone Gnawers are mangy mutts; their coats usually exhibit 
the marks of their mixed background, showing two or three patterns and 
colors. They are often flea-bitten; small Bone Gnawers may try to pass 
themselves off as (big) stray dogs, but it is hard to conceal their lupine 
heritage. 
Organization: Bone Gnawer society is not particularly organized. Wise 
elders are referred to as “Mother,” “Father,” “Grandmother” or “Grandfa- 
ther,” but there is no Rite or ceremony that accompanies such a title: It 
happens when it happens. One of the best ways to get status among the Bone 
Gnawers is to accumulate useful cast-off items, the sorts of things that others 
might think are junk but that have a great deal of utility left in them. There 
is no global hierarchy among the Bone Gnawers; each must make his own 
way. 
Habitaflrotectorate: The Bone Gnawers live in the poor parts of big 
cities; they see the occasional sacred place there and those innocents they 
find to be their charges. Their caerns can often be found in the least probable 
of settings: in the hearts of vast junkyards, condemned buildings, under- 
ground tunnels or the like. Bone Gnawers can be found patrolling the darkest 
streets of their home city; some have the defense of humans in mind while 
others aim to keep all humans away from their greatest prizes. While most 
werewolves think of the Gnawers as strictly urban, some of the tribe have 
more rural roots, living in the rural South and the Appalachians. Others 
speak of humble origins amid the poor of India and northern Africa or among 
migrant workers and dirt farmers. What the tribe truly shares is a connection 
with the downtrodden and disenfranchised who are found anywhere. 
41 


_:i Chilbren of Gaia 
The Western Concordiat seems unanimous in its hatred for the Weaver 
and Wyrm. The Children of Gaia alone stand against this. They know - 
or 
at least claim to know - 
that war is the creation of the Wyrm and strengthens 
the Wyrm. They desire to make peace, first among the 12 Tribes and then 
between the Garou and humanity. And then, who knows how far such an 
upswelling of good sentiment might go? 
for their attitude, of course; epithets like “hippie” and 
“peacenik” are the least damaging things they run into. 
However, because the members of most tribes know that 
the Children do not really hold grudges against any of 
them and do genuinely wish to improve the rapport 
between the tribes, the others often turn to them to act as 
mediators. The Children of Gaia have the best relations 
with the Uktena and Wendigo of all the so-called 
Wyrmcomer Europeans. 
However, these peace-loving Garou do have their 
breaking points, and their Rage can be frightening after 
being pent up for so long. They also understand that, as 
werewolves, sometimes they just need to “pop claws and 
go to town” for sanity’s sake. What they stress is that 
they look for good targets (like Wyrm-things) to vent 
their Rage on, rather than the wasteful destruction 
of another Garou. 
The Children of Gaia are one of the most 
active tribes within homid society. They work as 
environmental activists, teachers, lobbyists and 
similar roles, trying to educate humanity to the 
danger of their actions. Where possible, they 
take direct action against the worst depreda- 
tions of humanity, but since they are less likely 
than many other Garou to cause the Delirium 
in homids, they are the most useful working 
within homid society. 
The Children are an unusually large 
tribe by Garou standards, and are as diverse as 
they are large. This is mostly because the Chil- 
drenof Gaia and their totem, Unicorn, welcome 
almost any werewolf to join the tribe. Males born 
to the Black Furies, the metis of many tribes, 
“weaklings” born to the Get of Fenris, lost cubs 
The Children suffer the slings and arrows of the other tribes 
7/7-- 


with no knowledge of their tribes - 
all are accepted by Unicorn, and all call 
themselves Children of Gaia. 
Tribal Totem: Unicorn 
Advantage: The Children of Gaia are exceptionally skilled at bringing 
two sides of a conflict together and making them see the ways in which they 
do fundamentally agree. Each Child of Gaia starts with two additional Social 
Traits, which cannot be lost (They may go over their Trait maximums with 
this Advantage). 
Drawback: The Children of Gaia never participated in the Impergium 
to the extent that the other tribes did, and as a result, homids do not suffer the 
Delirium as seriously from the Children as they do from the other tribes. 
Humans are treated as though they had three extra Willpower Traits for the 
purposes of their reaction to the Delirium when faced by one or more Children 
of Gaia. Note that the presence of Children of Gaia does not dampen homids’ 
reactions to the Delirium if other Garou are rampaging in clear sight. 
Backgrounds: No restrictions 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Mercy, Mother’s Touch, Resist Pain 
Wolf Form: Children of Gaia are shaded mostly with gray or brown, with 
a dappling of white. Lupus-form Children do not loom menacingly in the way 
that other tribes do; they instead give off an aura of calm and safety. 
Organization: O n  the local level, the Children of Gaia operate by 
consensus, working together to forge solutions that are equitable to all 
involved (save minions of the Wyrm, who do not, contrary to the japes of 
other tribes, get a vote). At a Children of Gaia sept, the three leaders are the 
Voice of the Goddess (usually a veteran female), who acts as the policy-maker 
for the tribe; the Arm of the Goddess (usually a veteran male), who carries out 
the Voice’s decisions; and the Heart of the Goddess (a metis, or an elder 
beyond childbearing years), who acts as judge. 
Habitat/Protectorate: The Children call no one place home; they travel 
to the places they are needed across the globe. They range from Calcutta to 
California. Their greatest concern is the welfare of humans subject to the 
depredations of the Wyrm; the Children of Gaia believe that they alone 
understand that the Wyrm will always take root in humans unless those 
humans are protected against it. Their Kinfolk tend to be unusually aware of 
social and environmental issues, and come from every nationality. 
43 


”I ’ 
Fianna 
Many onlookers suspect that the blood of the Fair Folk runs in the veins 
of the Fianna tribe; these Garou share an ancestral home with the legendary 
fae in the British Isles, and have the same love of a good song and strong drink 
as those mythical creatures. The Fianna are master storytellers - 
a good 
Fianna yam, whether true or not, will set you back a case of beer and half a 
night, and you’ll wonder where the time went as you stumble to the door. 
The other tribes see the Fianna as merrymakers and drunkards, but that’s 
not quite the whole story. The Fianna are famed for their wild mood swings 
and may spend weeks in a melancholy bordering on Harano before cheering. 
A Fianna’s mood can just as quickly turn to anger; their frenzies are no less 
frightening than those of more openly warlike tribes. Of all the tribes, the 
Fianna are certainly the most sociable, but they also provide most of the 
material for ballads of unrequited or tragic love, especially for humans and 
other Garou. 
Some Fianna in North America and Australia try to get away from the 
stereotype of the drunken Irish brawler or bard, but it is hard to eliminate a 
stereotype that the other tribes seem so 
determined to see within them. New 
World Fianna work as activists within 
homid communities rather than 
holding themselves apart from hu- 
manity. Certainly cities with large 
Irish populations ’ - - 
than others do, k 
most of the 0th 
Nation, truly a 
these days. The 1 
Tiger economic 1 
and the fight for I 
ern Ireland has 1: 
rift in the tribe, 
seek the benefits 
ment and the eldi 
loss of traditions 
Tribal Tote 
Advantage: 
history is one ( 
brawls. As a resu 
of this illustriou 
F’- 
- 
I 


history, they may begin play with two Traits in any combination of the 
following Abilities: Brawl, Expression, Melee, Performance. 
Drawback: Fianna are passionate werewolves and can be dragged quite 
adistance by their own anger, joy or melancholy. As aresult, they lose any ties 
on Willpower Challenges that they face unless they can force a retest or use 
a Gift to otherwise ameliorate this result. 
Backgrounds: No restrictions 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Faerie Light, Persuasion, Resist Toxin 
Wolf Form: When in Lupus, the Fianna are terrifying to unprepared 
homids: They seem to be the dire wolves of old, with shining red or black fur. 
Their howls can rend the heart for their beauty and sadness. 
Organization: At the local level, Fianna septs elect their members to 
“Chairs” of various performing arts: There is a Chair of Poetry, a Chair of Song 
and a Chair of Stories. These Chairs lead moots for the local sept. On a global 
level, a high king or queen, known as the Ar-Righ, leads the Fianna. The 
traditional seat of this office is at Tara in Ireland, though not all Ar-Righ hold 
court there, some preferring their own homelands (be they Sydney or 
Boston). 
Habitaerotectorate: In older times they preferred the moors, forests 
and peat bogs of the “auld sod,” although they have traveled across the globe 
with their Kinfolk. They are most commonly found in the British Isles, the 
United States (especially Appalachia), Canada, New Zealand and Australia. 
They usually settle close to their Kin, whom they protect with great ferocity. 
45 


3 Get of Fenris 
The Get of Fenris are the Fenrir, the chosen children of Fenris Wolf, the 
mightiest warrior spirit in the heavens. They are the fists of Gaia and the 
greatest warriors of the Garou Nation. Anyone who cares to disagree is 
welcome to challenge these proclamations in person. The Get hail from 
northern Europe and Scandinavia; those are harsh lands, not prone to 
forgiving individual frailty, and the Get have absorbed this attitude from their 
surroundings. They want no truck with weaklings of any kind, 
The mythology of the Get revolves around ancient Norse 
legends. They see the coming Apocalypse through the lens of 
Ragnarok, the final battle between the Norse gods and the 
wicked giants; the Get see themselves numbered among the 
Einherjar, the chosen warriors of the gods. The Wyrm itself 
they call Jormungandr, the World Serpent. It is said that a 
true warrior of the Get of Fenris would gladly let himself be 
devoured by Jormungandr if he was sure to get a few 
moments rending and tearing at the beast’s face. 
The tribe’s belief that the weak must be culled saw a 
black mark against the Fenrir in the middle of the 20th 
century as more than a few members of the Get of Fenris 
fell in with the ideals ofNazi Germany. That cancer was 
excised rather painfully as the tribe fell to infighting 
while some of the worst crimes against Gaia of that 
century were taking place, and it took a few years for 
the Get to return to their former stature. The most 
poisonous of Get rhetoric has softened somewhat in 
the intervening years. 
The Get of Fenris see no problem in seizing 
caerns “misheld” by other tribes; if the Get can take 
a caem, obviously it was not well-defended against the 
minions of the Wyrm. The Get see their own stewardship 
of such caerns as the best and most obvious solution to that 
problem. This has put them on bad footing with several 
1 other tribes; the Wendigo and Uktena, in particular, have 
no great love for the Fenrir. A few tribes are too strong to 
assault in such a fashion: The Shadow Lords, Silver Fangs 
and Black Furies can generally hold their own against a Get 
assault. The others watch the Get warily; the Fenrir know 
that they will lead the assault against the Wyrm in the final 
caring only for the strongest Garou. 
battle for Gaia, and now they only wait the signal .... 
Tribal Totem: Fenris Wolf 


Advantage: The youthful training and Rite ofPussage of the Get of Fenris 
are hard enough on a young Garou that they either kill him or make him 
stronger. Those that survive that upbringing gain one extra Healthy health 
level. 
Drawback: The Get of Fenris honor strength in all forms, and they 
despise weakness. This attitude is so ingrained that they will show open 
contempt, even to the point of violence, against those who exhibit a 
particular weakness. Get characters must choose a weakness against which 
they rail, and succeed in a Static Willpower Test to avoid taking action 
against it when faced with it. Some targets of Fenrir rage include: Cowardice, 
Compromise, Lower Animals, Peaceniks, Physical Frailty, Weaver-things. 
Backgrounds: The Get of Fenris may not purchase the Contacts Back- 
ground, and although he may purchase Mentor, the Mentor will only advise, 
never protect; the Get must be able to fight on his own or die. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Razor Claws, Resist Pain, Visage of Fenris 
Wolf Form: The lupine forms of the Get of Fenris resemble the savage 
wolves of the Far North from ancient times. They are gray and muscular, with 
cunning eyes and powerful jaws. Some few have dark patches in their fur, but 
those are often regarded with contempt by the rest of the tribe as lacking in 
pure blood. 
Organization: Each Get of Fenris sept is ruled by a Jarl who is almost 
invariably the mightiest warrior in the sept. Any warrior who wishes to 
challenge him can depose the Jarl, but this challenge must take place in ritual 
combat after a moot, and other Get of Fenris must witness it. This ritual 
requirement is often rendered moot, since many Jarls prefer their challenge 
duels to be to the death. There is little organization to the tribe above the local 
level. 
Habitaflrotectorate: The Get of Fenris typically reside in harsh lands 
where their mettle (and that of their Kinfolk) is constantly tested. This 
preference for tough living does not prevent the Get from forcibly acquiring 
caerns that other tribes are slow to defend. They are concentrated most 
strongly in the Black Forest of Germany, Scandinavia and the north central 
United States. They lash out at any force that threatens their Kinfolk, who 
are generally of Northern European extraction. 
il 
t 
r 
c 
i 


’ 
Glass Walkers 
The Glass Walkers are the most modern and forward-thinking of all the 
tribes of the Garou Nation. They alone truly embrace modern technology and 
turn the Weaver’s tools on the Wyrm’s minions for Gaia’s benefit. They do 
their best to bring their technology and resources to the other tribes so that 
all can benefit from the latest advances, but, as is often the case, the Red 
Talons get frustrated and smash new cell phones, while the Get of Fenris hurl 
laptop computers into nearby lakes. In the end, it seems, most 
of the more primitive tribes are interested in new weapons 
and weapon accessories, and rely on the Glass Walkers to 
use the other stuff on their behalf. This is a role the Glass 
Walkers are all too happy to take; they love toys. The epithet 
“Weaver-thing,” considered an insult when applied by the 
Red Talons, is used in loving jest by Glass Walkers (“Ooh, 
new Weaver-thing! Lemme see....”). Their affinity for 
:hnology is unmatched among the 12 Tribes. 
The Walkers are not obsessed solely with comput- 
ers and high tech; they also embrace business, politics 
and high finance. Only a city’s Leech population 
matches the Dons when it comes to having a finger 
in every pie. The Glass Walkers have contacts in 
many white-collar industries and no small number 
of trade unions and other blue-collar labor. Glass 
Walker business investments often provide the 
operating capital for extended Garou operations, 
and a few warlike septs now find themselves in debt 
to the Glass Walkers for previous raids. Most Walk- 
ers wouldn’t call a debt like this in, but it is good to 
know the marker is there when you need a favor. 
The Glass Walkers do fight the Wyrm. They just 
take the fight to the boardroom and the Internet. 
rheir finest warriors stalk those who exploit urbaniza- 
Lon, and they reclaim urban areas to create patches of 
een in the cities. One of the tribe’s greatest assets is the 
onkeywrenchers,” saboteurs of various talents who 
I their efforts on corrupt companies, especially Pentex 
its subsidiaries. When they’re not duking it out with 
ic corruption, the Glass Walkers are dealing with the 
vampire population; such close quarters ensures the 
it enemies encounter each other, and the Glass Walk- 
)w as many dirty tricks as the Leeches to get things 
I 
Tribal Totem: Cockroach 
48 


Advantage: Glass Walkers have always been well-connected within 
human society. They begin play with a free Influence Trait, and may buy more 
at a cost of one for one (not to exceed the cap). 
Drawback: The Glass Walkers are so tied to the Weaver and her works 
that they cannot regain Gnosis in the deep wilderness. They can only do so 
in cities (and, generally, suburbs). They can regain Gnosis at caerns any- 
where, however, even hundreds of miles from civilization. 
Backgrounds: The Glass Walkers lack ties to their ancient past: They 
cannot choose the Ancestors, Pure Breed or Mentor Backgrounds. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Control Simple Machine, Diagnostics, Trick Shot 
Wolf Form: Having degenerated from ancient lupine majesty, the Glass 
Walkers are smaller and weaker than most other Garou when in wolf form. 
Their fur is often mottled, as befits their mixed heritage. Many Glass Walkers 
shave or dye their Crinos-form fur in accordance with similar modifications 
they make to themselves in homid form. 
Organization: At the local level, city elders known as Lords or Dons rule 
the Walkers. These elders have wide-ranging influence throughout the city, 
rivaled only by local Leeches. As is the case with many tribes, the Glass 
Walkers lack a large-scale organization, but as the world becomes more 
interconnected through an electronic web, Dons are better able to cooperate 
with one another and make certain that a werewolf cannot escape punish- 
ment simply by fleeing to a remote city. 
Habitaflrotectorate: As might be expected from their name, the Glass 
Walkers prefer to live in the wealthiest parts of cities across the world. The 
centers of power - 
political, financial or electronic - 
are their stomping 
grounds. They prefer to stay close to their human contacts, from board rooms 
to underworld society or ritzy clubs to seedy street life. Their Kinfolk are 
equally widespread, mostly connected through electronic means (cell phone, 
e-mail, pager). 
49 


any 
the 
Walk through a city some night, and look up at the sky. Try to find a star, 
I star. You’re lucky if you can see Luna herself up there. Imagine you had 
power to punish the people concealing the pure sky from you. Here is the 
source of the Red Talons’ rage. They can see the pure sky; they live in pure, 
clean, wild lands, but every day some idiot ape bulldozes another hundred 
acres to put up another 200 cookie-cutter suburban homes. The answer is 
obvious to the Red Talons: kill some homids. Yet this is precisely what the 
other 11 tribes refuse to do. 
The Red Talons are the claws of Gaia; they are Her rage at the human race 
given form, or so they believe. The Talons come almost entirely from lupus 
stock; only in the last few decades have they even accepted metis that come 
from Talon-Talon matings. Many Talon metis are still culled at birth or given 
to the Children of Gaia to rear. Given their backgrounds, few Talons are 
comfortable with Weaver-things of any kind. Most see the value in klaives, 
and a few even appreciate the usefulness of agunor telephone, but for the most 
part they communicate via howls and fight with claws and feel that that 
should be enough. Still, the other tribes admit the Talons have long memo- 
ries, and no doubt recall rites and secrets long forgotten by the rest of the 
Garou. 
Talon hatred of humans is legendary, and that hatred has grown by leaps 
and bounds in these nights of Alaskan wolf- 
kills and bulldozed forests; some believe 
, that the humans should be wiped from 
Gaia’s face entirely. Others are more 
restrained, thinking that return- 
ing to the practice of culling 
- 
- 
would be enough. A few hu- 
mans even live peacefully 
near Talon territories, pro- 
vided they respect the land. 
Many Talons enact a 
private 
Impergium 
against humans who 
move into protected 
lands. The deaths are 
often swift, but some 
younger Red Talons 
take more pleasure in 
the killings t h a n  
their elders think 
prudent. Cruelties 
and ritual torture 
that rival t h e  


Black Spiral Dancers are surely the touch of the Wyrm. Some, it is whispered, 
even violate the Litany - 
“Ye Shall Not Eat the Flesh of Humans.” The 
malice of such unnecessary activity surely tempts the Wyrm, and the tribe’s 
elders watch their youthful students more and more carefully in the modern 
nights. 
Tribal Totem: Griffin 
Advantage: As the manifestation of Gaia’s anger, the Red Talons gain 
an additional free Rage Trait at character generation and have a maximum 
Rage one higher than members of other tribes do. (They may go over their 
Trait maximums with this Advantage.) 
Drawback: The Red Talons embrace the Wyld so strongly that they 
cannot regain Gnosis when they are distant from its touch. They can only do 
so in the deep wilderness (generally, where the city is far and the Gauntlet is 
lower than 5). However, they can always regain 
in the heart of the city. 
Backgrounds: Given their affinity fo 
Wolf Form: The Red T 
most comfortable wearing it. 
is seen as a mark o 
some other Gar0 
Talons each have a clear 
The pack‘s omega- most often a Ragabash, 
of abuse, being subservient to everyone else. 
lose at least a few acres every day. Some Talons will set up staging grounds 
closer to homid territory, but they are more likely to strike directly at those 
who intrude on their ever-shrinking lands. Their Kinfolk are wolf packs 
across the world, and every one is precious to them; the loss of a pup is 
certainly worth a few human lives. Some won’t even acknowledge human 
Kinfolk, causing clashes with other tribes. 


The Shadow Lords cultivate an air of menace in the same way that a 
Child of Gaia cultivates her herb garden. Dark, looming, brooding - 
such 
traits personify these Garou of Eastern European descent. The Shadow Lords 
know with precise certainty that they are more qualified to lead the Garou 
Nation than the Silver Fangs; the Fangs’ leadership consists of doddering old 
fools, lost in yesterday’s glory, they say. They hold themselves to be the 
guardians of the Litany, well-versed in the “correct” interpretations of the 
tenets. Above all, they respect power and strength; the weak are worth only 
The Shadow Lords must watch their own flanks at all 
times: In addition to competing with Garou of other tribes 
for position and influence, a Lord dares not show weak- 
ness to another Lord lest she lose face and position 
within the tribe. Cubs revere their elders as dignified, 
cunning and proud, but often do so from fear. Elders 
are known for arrogance as much as ability. Add this 
to a steaming cauldron of political intrigues, 
tribal solidarity, conspiracies and spies, and 
the tribe is more likely to suffer from internal 
conflicts than outside interests. 
The Shadow Lords are adept at manipu- 
lating others to do their bidding; some darkly 
joke that they learned that skill from the 
vampires that stalk the night in the tribe’s 
ancient homeland, the Carpathian and Balkan 
mountain ranges. It is certainly the case that 
the Shadow Lords are more willing to enter 
into dealings with such dark creatures than 
other tribes are. Some Lords end up on the 
wrong sides of such bargains - 
apparently 
some Leeches have a fondness for werewolf 
blood- but others can and do play games with the 
The Shadow Lords revere Grandfather Thunder as 
a spirit only slightly beneath Gaia in importance - 
most Garou believe that the Shadow Lords feel that 
Grandfather Thunder is Gaia’s equal, a sky god to the 
earth goddess. If the Shadow Lords really do consider 
the two to be equal, they keep that fact to themselves. 
By all indications, Mother Gaia is foremost in their 
hearts, but Grandfather Thunder is a capricious pa- 
disdain or a swift death. 


._ 
tron. He does not tolerate weakness, but sends his Stormcrows ahead to warn 
favored Shadow Lords of coming danger. 
Tribal Totem: Grandfather Thunder 
Advantage: A Shadow Lord can socially outmaneuver his opponents 
with blinding skill. By spending one Gnosis Trait, the Lord can temporarily 
gain an amount of Social Traits equal to his Rank. This extra amount can be 
used for a single Social Challenge per session. This Advantage fails against a 
Garou with equal or greater Traits in the Pure Breed Background than the 
character has. 
Drawback: The Shadow Lords are arrogant to extremes, and this is 
reflected in the tribe’s attitude toward failure. A Lord who fails in her assigned 
tasks is scorned and reviled; she loses an additional Renown Trait when she 
fails at a task (or, if that failure would still earn positive Renown, she earns one 
fewer Renown Trait). If she would gain or lose Renown in more than one 
category, she loses it from the category which would have earned her the most 
Renown had she succeeded. 
the strength to crush any opposition and the mystic knowledge to turn even 
the spirits to their will. Shadow Lord leaders are rarely challenged openly; 
only when the leader has shown obvious weakness is he considered to be a 
viable target for deposition. 
Habitaerotectorate: Though the tribe’s true home lies in the Balkan 
and Carpathian mountain ranges, they now range across the Western 
Concordiat. The Lords’ preferred homes lie amid rocky mountains and spooky 
plateaus, with haunted coniferous forests all around. Other than their own 
Kinfolk - 
generally of Eastern European descent - 
and business interests, 
the Shadow Lords do not have a favored group of homids to defend, although 
powerful men like military dictators, crime lords or ruthless businessmen may 
find themselves pursued by female Shadow Lord lovers. Like the Get of Fenris, 
they ruthlessly seize undefended caerns, insisting that the Garou Nation must 
ensure that such holy places are in the hands of those best capable of 
protecting them. 
53 
, 
7/7--- -7 
i/ 
I ! 
k 
f 
2 
i 
I 


Silent S t r i be r s 
7 
The Silent Striders are wanderers, messengers and travelers; more than 
anything else they are enigmas. Though the tribe originally hails from Egypt, 
they no longer reside there, instead wandering the globe. Though it is claimed 
that no Garou can enter the lands of the dead, the scent of the Dark Umbra 
clings to them. And though they rarely do any other Garou wrong, few 
werewolves completely trust the Silent Striders. 
activity, the Silent Striders are welcome visitors at nearly any caem. 
If rumors are to be believed, the Striders even find welcome 
among the fae and wizards of the world, and ghosts are said to 
follow them. When wandering the world, the Striders have 
an uncanny tendency to poke their snouts in where they 
don’t belong and come out with trouble on 
their tails. This may be the reason they are so 
widely distrusted. Most Striders make a li 
acting as couriers or messengers betw 
caerns; they know the hidden byways \ 
enough, and, it is rumored, afew secret Mc 
Bridges to boot. 
With the usual exception of Banes ar 
Black Spiral Dancers, the Striders hol 
their greatest hatred for vampires. Triba 
legend holds that the Striders fought an 
army of vampires led by a dark undead 
godling called Sutekh. Sutekh suppos- 
edly cast a great curse on the tribe that 
drove them from Egypt, scattered them 
to the winds, and worst of all, severed 
their bonds with their ancestors. Since tl- 
many Striders take Egyptian names as a 
their past, and search the Umbra in vain fc 
of their forbears. 
The Silent Striders do have a relatic 
the Restless Dead. The origin of the re12 
unknown, but Striders tend to attract g b  
tion when passing through the Gauntlet 
of the Umbra. Rare is the Silent Strider m 
have at least one wraith tagging along as 
Out of a sense of respect and politeness, t 
will generally avoid mentioning such gho 
of strangers. 
When acting as messengers or bearing tidings of the Wyrm’s 
54 
7/P=---n 
7 


Advantage: Because of where they go and their experiences on the road, 
Silent Striders become very good at listening to their instincts. If a Strider 
walks into a situation he finds suspicious or disturbing, he can ask for a Simple 
Test. If he succeeds, he is plagued with sensations of doom or warning (the 
Storyteller may fill in as the situation demands, but it should never be more 
than an general impression). A situation may only be tested once, and this 
may not be used to backup and redo an action (“Oh, no, I didn’t go in the door, 
after I got the spooky feeling.). Too much use of this Advantage is a sure route 
to paranoia; it only means the Strider is now on alert, but for what remains to 
be seen. 
Drawback: Silent Striders tend to attract the attention of ghosts, due to 
an ancient curse levied upon the tribe. At the Narrator’s discretion, if a Silent 
Strider loses his challenge to step sideways, he may attract the attention of the 
Restless Dead. A ghost will attach itself to him, making his life considerably 
more difficult (see “Wraiths”, p. 264) until such time as the Strider completes 
a task on the ghost’s behalf. This Drawback functions as per the Flaw: 
Haunted. 
Backgrounds: As wanderers cut off from the lands of the dead, the Silent 
Striders are forbidden the Ancestors and Resources Backgrounds. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Sense Wym, Silence, Speed of Thought 
Wolf Form: The Silent Striders have the look of the jackal about them, 
lean and muscular. They have black coats and yellow eyes, appearing as 
though they just sprang from the hieroglyphs on a tomb’s wall. 
Organization: The Silent Striders are loners, without explicit hierarchy 
or titles, but they do occasionally gather ingreat moots. Typically these moots 
take place alongside barren, empty expanses of road, although outsiders 
remain mystified about how the tribe knows where and when to meet. More 
commonly, rather than congregating, the Striders leave one another messages 
on roadsigns or in subway tunnels, using a pictographic scrawl whose meaning 
is generally kept secret. 
Habitaflrotectorate: Whether as individuals or as a tribe, the Silent 
Striders do not have a single homeland. They are wanderers, travelers, born 
to the road. They may stay in one place for an extended time, but for the most 
part they do not congregate for long periods at any particular caerns, save for 
a rumored caem in Casablanca. Their Kinfolk are likewise disparate -Rrom, 
circus troupes, nomadic tribes, truckers or hitchhikers. 
m 


G 
\ 
--A 
/ 
A I  
Silver Fangs 
The Silver Fangs are the traditional rulers of the Garou Nation. Their 
Kinfolk hail from the most highly placed noble families in Europe, northern 
Africa and western Asia, and their regal blood and pure breed are obvious to 
any Garou they encounter. A t  the same time, the Silver Fangs' continued 
reeding among the same noble families has concentrated some 
ental eccentricities within the tribe; in the modern days, few 
Silver Fangs have all of their mental faculties. Some see 
visions of the tribe's heroic past, others lose memories, and 
others have even more dangerous derangements. 
Still, the tribe's noble blood, general coherence and 
--:"-nnia 
of tradition combine to allow them to easily 
mand respect and obedience from most Garou. The 
ver Fangs are wealthy in land, money and magic, and 
nost Silver Fang kings are quick to reward loyal 
service. Silver Fangs rarely step into occupied septs 
and demand control of the caern, but they often 
rise to positions of power within multi-tribal septs 
due to their natural charisma and combat prowess. 
In the modem day, fewer and fewer Garou are 
willing to submit to the Silver Fangs' claim of Gaia- 
blessed right of rulership; it seems obvious to younger 
werewolves that the Silver Fangs may be as much a 
liability to the Western Concordiat as they are born 
leaders. Rumors abound that the Silver Fangs them- 
selves will fight at the head of the forces of the 
Wyrm, when the final drum sounds. Young Silver 
Fangs speak of refreshing the tribe's bloodlines, but 
the elders exhibit shock and horror at the very 
suggestion. 
Tribal Totem: Falcon 
Advantage: The Silver Fangs have claimed 
primacy among the Garou since before recorded 
history. As a result, they may retest any Social 
Challenge once; the second result must stand. 
Drawback: The Silver Fangs have spent so long 
breeding among their own Kinfolk and controlling 
wen their own Kinfolk's breeding that the tribe has 
ecome dangerously inbred. As the fists of Gaia, the 
ings have not become physically weak. Instead, they 
ve developed certain eccentricities. A Silver Fang 
rts play with one of the following derangements: Am- 
nesia, 
Intellectualization, 
Manic-Depression, 


Megalomania, Multiple Personalities, Obsession, Paranoia, Perfection, Regression 
or Vengeful (for a description of these derangements, see p.212). 
Backgrounds: Silver Fangs must spend at least three of their initial 
Background Traits on Pure Breed; after those are purchased, all Backgrounds 
are available to them. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Falcon’s Grasp, Lambent Flame, Sense Wyrm 
Wolf Form: T h e  wolf form of a Silver Fang is suitably majestic, especially 
given the tribe’s strong bloodlines. With mighty jaws and lush tails, they 
command attention as easily in lupus form as in homid or Crinos. Their fur 
is usually silver or white. 
Organization: The Silver Fangs have a rigid hierarchy; seven great noble 
houses cover the Fangs’ territory across the world, and within each Fang sept 
there is a King (the term applies whether the elder is male or female) and 
associated members of his court. The King is the eldest active Ahroun of one 
of the great bloodlines or one who has ennobled himself through legendary 
deeds. The court consists of two members of each of the other auspices in the 
roles of shamans (Theurges), stewards (Philodox), squires (Galliards) and 
seneschals (Ragabash). Members of other auspices fill these other roles more 
often these days as the Fangs’ numbers decrease. A Silver Fang King’s sept is 
divided into two courts, the Lodge of the Sun, whichdeals with business affairs 
and day-to-day operations, and the Lodge of the Moon, which handles 
spiritual affairs and interactions with the Wyld. 
Habitaflrotectorate: The Silver Fangs pay careful attention to the 
scions of nobility, for breeding purposes. Their pickings have gotten slimmer 
over the past 50 years as nobility as a lifestyle has begun to vanish from Europe 
and was never as grand in the rest of the world. The Fangs do have the choicest 
territory to be found in much of Europe and Russia, with majestic views from 
mountain eyries and the like. In the Americas and Australia, things are 
considerably more egalitarian, and the Fangs scrap with the other tribes for 
the nicest digs. T h e  Fangs keep close track of their Kin, and tribal “pedigrees” 
take up several volumes in any library. Money is not a consideration to noble 
blood - 
an exiled Romanian prince reduced to teaching high school in the 
US is worth far more to them than a nouveau riche industrialist descended from 
horse thieves. 


Uktena 
The Uktena tribe is one of the two remaining “Pure Ones” tribes; they, 
the Wendigo and the long-vanished Croatan lived in North America for 
thousands of years until the invasion of the so-called Wyrmcomer tribes of 
Europe some 500 years ago. Despite fierce fighting by the Uktena and 
Wendigo to help their Kinfolk preserve a traditional way of life, the 
Wyrmcomers and their Kinfolk swarmed across the continent like a plague. 
The Wyrmcomers’ Kinfolk, called the Wyrmbringers, slaughtered and con- 
fined the Native Americans over the next few centuries until 
eventually Native Americans were restricted to reservations 
spotted across the United States and Canada. 
There were two possible responses to this great change in 
the population of the continent: fight it to the last, or accept 
it and integrate with the newcomers. The Wendigo chose the 
former road and the Uktena the latter, especially embraci 
those Asians and Africans the whites brought in as slaves. In 
the 21st century, the Uktena is one of the most ethnical1 
diverse tribes in the world; Uktena have Kinfolk from 
Vancouver to Miami, Halifax to Los Angeles and just 
about every place in between. The majority of Uktena 
come from oppressed or lower-class social groups. 
In the ancient days, the Uktena were the sha- 
mans, and they have never lost this talent; indeed, it 
has grown as they and their Kinfolk lost power in the 
physical world. They have good relations with most 
nature spirits, and excel at creating fetishes and talens. 
They ate considered some of the most talented and 
powerful shamans and occultists in the Nation. P- 
Uktena have an insatiable thirst for discovering anci 
secrets, and once discovered, at hiding and holding 01 
them. Some few Uktena, called Bane Tenders, choose 
difficult and possibly corrupting task of monitoring f 
Banes and Wyrm-beasts to make sure they remain bok 
and somnolent. While such knowledge has proved us 
- 
the Uktena are exceptionally skilled at scouting OL 
presence of the Wyrm and other blight - 
it has con 
terrible price. Members of many tribes whisper th 
Uktena have gotten too close to the secrets the Wyrm 
and that they themselves might soon walk the Black 
to join the forces of corruption. 
The Uktena take their name from a Native Amc 
water spirit with the features of a serpent, cougar and 
known for its love of secrets and disguising its appeal 
- 
I 
? 
I 


Advantage: Uktena are so attuned to the hidden ways and spirits that 
they can peek into the Umbra from the real world using the same rules as 
peeking out from the Umbra. 
Drawback: The Uktena have always been harvesters of secrets. An 
Uktena Garou hates to let secrets remain hidden away from her (though she 
is perfectly good at hiding them once she’s gotten them). Once the character 
learns that a secret lies in reach (either an 
erson knows a secret, or the 
character is faced with a m  
le to concentrate until the 
secret is uncovered. 
gather for a Great Cou 
the entire tribe. Since 
Uktena tribe as a whole, t 
the Council consists almo 
tribe to share information. 
ters of importance to 
force actions on the 
rimarily as a place for the 
hose voices carry great weight within 
Uktena. These councils are more 
Great Council, and their compo- 
sition is not dictated from ab 
a possess many caerns on Native 
American soil, but no small proportion of their territory is in lands controlled 
by the United States since the native peoples were forced from it. Since the 
first days of the Wyrmcomers, the Uktena and their Kinfolk have bred with 
the oppressed members of homid society, and the tribe and its human charges 
can now be found from Native American reservations to urban neighbor- 
hoods to the Amazon rainforest and Pacific Islands. 
Habitaflrotectorate: Th 
59 


In the ancient days before the Wyrmbringers and their Garou allies, the 
Wyrmcomers, the Wendigo tribe was one of three that tended to the humans 
and wolves of the Pure Lands. The Uktena tribe was known as Older Brother, 
the shamans; the Croatan was Middle Brother, the leaders and diplomats; and 
the Wendigo was Younger Brother, the warriors. 
After the destruction of the Croatan, the Wendigo remained warriors, 
and they refused to yield in the face of the 
Wyrmbringers’ invasion of the Pure Lands. They 
fought, fell back and fought again over the course of 
more than a century. In the end, the Wendigo were 
gorced to retreat to their most remote caerns and 
wage war from there. Decades passed before the 
Wendigo and the Wyrmcomers met peacefully, 
and tensions still run high between them and 
tribes like the Fianna and Get of Fenris (for 
The Wendigo were, and still are, adeeply 
traditional and spiritual tribe that holds fast 
to many rituals of their native blood and 
Garou heritage. They practice ritual purity 
before hunts, battles or other major un- 
dertakings, and seek aid from the spirits 
for many matters. They continue to seek 
some news about their lost brethren the 
obvious reasons). 
Croatan. 
Some hardline Wendigo believe 
that they can drive the Wyrmbringers 
from the Pure Lands or wash the Wyrm- 
taint from the land with the Wyrmbringers’ 
blood. This extremist view has been gaining in 
popularity as frustrations build in the tribe, and 
some talk of an alliance with like-minded Red 
Talons. Most take the view that defeating the 
Wyrm in all its forms should take precedence over 
:hoosing a particular breed of homid to dominate 
he continent. 
The Wendigo tribe takes its name from its 
item, the winter cannibal spirit ofNorth America. 
7endigo teaches its children the power of the cold, 
cutting wind and stealth abilities, which they use 
to ambush the forces of the Wyrm (and, occa- 
sionally, trespassing Wyrmcomer Garou). 


Tribal Totem: Wendigo 
Advantage and Drawback: T h e  Wendigo are tied to the movement of 
Gaia around the sun, and as such, they have different limitations and 
advantages at different times of the year. They call this the Wheel of Seasons. 
In Spring, as life expands and grows, a Wendigo suffers a one-Trait 
penalty to all Willpower Tests but gains the Physical Trait Energetic. 
In Summer, the season ofwar, she faces aone-Trait penalty to resist frenzy 
but gains the Social Trait Charismatic. 
In Autumn, as the world slows, he faces a one-Trait penalty to the 
difficulty of Static Tests to change form but gains the Mental Trait Reflective. 
In Winter, the Wendigo’s favored season, she gains two extra Stamina- 
related Traits, Tenacious and Rugged, for the purposes of soaking damage but 
must take one of the following Negative Traits: Callous, Dull or Witkss. 
Backgrounds: Wendigo may not purchase Contacts or Resources. 
Beginning Tribal Gifts: Call the Breeze, Camouflage, Resist Pain 
Wolf Form: Wendigo in lupus form resemble enormous gray timber 
wolves; they fade out of sight in winters across northern North America. 
Organization: Afew ChiefsleadeachseptofWendigo-they donot always 
use the title “Chief,” as some prefer their own language’s equivalent - 
and the 
Chief or Chiefs are usually advised by a group of Theurges known as the Lodge 
of Mysteries. A Philodox is usually peacetime Chief, and an Ahroun the Chief 
during time of war. With the End Times so obviously upon them, some Ahrouns 
have begun to exert their authority outside of battle, claiming that the Garou 
Nation now lives in a state of war; the Philodox protest, and it remains to be seen 
which faction will win out. 
Wabitat/Protectorate: The Wendigo, like the Uktena, live among Native 
American tribes in the United States and Canada. Unlike the Uktena, the 
Wendigo have made a point of avoiding the Wyrmbringers and their offspring 
whenever possible. Thus, they are found primarily in the most desolate lands, 
hostile to humans of all stripes, as well as among Native Americans. Like the 
Uktena, the Wendigo are rarely seen in Europe, though rumors persist that the 
tribe has a presence in Siberia. The Wendigo breed exclusively - 
as far as they 
can - 
with Native American Kinfolk. Most are unwilling to sully their 
bloodlines with the taint of white men, even today. The protection of their 
dwindling numbers of Kin ranks of nearly equal importance with the defeat of 
the Wyrm among Wendigo councils. 
61 


The office was ultra-modern, sleek with glass and steel. In a display case 
near the desk sat four shelves full of recording awards. On the wall were 
tastefully framed pictures of a number of leading Goth musicians. Jackie, Pete 
and Marja gazed in puzzlement - 
what was this supposed to prove? 
The man sitting across from them was white. Not merely Caucasian, but 
truly pale skin and white hair. Glassy red eyes gazed back at them from across 
the desk. His clothing - 
a sleek modern charcoal-gray suit with a collarless 
black shirt - 
gave the strange effect of both heightening his deformity and 
complementing it. Jackie and Pete sneaked nervous glances at each other; 
Marja looked like she didn’t care, but she was biting her underlip, and Jackie 
knew she was just as worried. 
“The name is Ken Eldritch,” said the man. “You can call me Marks-the- 
Leeches. They sent you here to learn about fighting for Gaia.” 
Marja stared. “Ken Eldritch? CEO of Witchlight Records?” 
H e  grinned. “Yours truly.” 
“But- but, Witchlight stuff is all about vampires anddark things. It’s not 
about Gaia.. . .” Jackie felt fingers of fear clutching at her. Beside her, Pete was 
tensing, muscles bunching in anticipation of a shift. 
Ken chuckled reassuringly. “Down, kids, it’s not what you think. 
Witchlight attracts the Leeches like moths to a flame. They all come in 
thinking they can walk all over me, or get me to spill info, or even use my 
influence with the high-rollers. What they get is the black spot - 
I mark any 
Leech who comes to me for the hunters.” He sighed in mock dismay. “Tragic 
how the lifestyle burns these folks out so fast, don’t you think?” 
“SO you fight for Gaia by running a Goth record label?” Pete growled. 
“You bring the Leeches to your door?” 
“It’s not just the record label, and believe me, pup, I could do without the 
Leeches,” Ken gave him a hard stare until Pete looked away “With this, I have 
cash handy to bail a packmate out of jail, or I have connections in the industry 
so those who make music about the Mother’s love can reach those who need 
to hear, or I have connections to the pulse in this town so I can hear when 
things are going wrong. 
“The point, cubs, is that everyone fights for Gaia in different ways. I hunt 
Leeches. Walks-Through-Walls plays basketball with the street kids and 
gives them someone to trust so they don’t get snagged by the wrong elements. 
Jory Speaks-With-Truth takes care of the Kinfolk so they don’t go bad on us 
or get smacked around by their furry cousins. Fightingfor Gaia isn’t just about 
the tail you can kick - 
it’s as much about the tail you can save as well. We 
all have a job to do. The question is, what’s yours?” 


Quick Character Creation Process 
Step One: Inspiration - 
Who are you? 
- 
Choose a concept 
- 
Choose a Nature and a Demeanor 
- 
Choose a breed and auspice 
- 
Choose a tribe 
Step Two: Attributes -What 
are your basic capabilities? 
- Prioritize Attributes (seven primary, five secondary and three 
- 
Choose Traits 
Step Three: Advantages - 
What do you know? 
- 
Choose five Abilities 
- 
Choose three Basic Gifts (one each from breed, auspice and tribe) 
- 
Choose five Backgrounds 
-Note 
beginning Renown (by auspice) 
Step Four: Last Touches - 
Fill in the details. 
- 
Assign Rage (determined by auspice) 
- 
Assign Gnosis (determined by breed) 
-Assign Willpower (determined by tribe) 
- 
Choose Negative Traits and Flaws (if any) 
- 
Spend five (or more) Free Traits and choose Merits (if any) 
Step Five: Spark of Life -Narrative 
descriptions 
tertiary) 
64 


t- 
I 
W 
Archetypes 
Alpha, Bravo, Builder, Bureaucrat, Caregiver, Competitor, Confidant, 
Conformist, Conniver, Cub, Curmudgeon, Deviant, Director, Explorer, Fa- 
natic, Follower, Gallant, Hedonist, Jester, Judge, Lone Wolf, Martyr, Predator, 
Rebel, Reluctant Garou, Show-off, Survivor, Traditionalist, Visionary 
W 
I 
Attributes 
I 
I 
Physical Traits: &le, 
Brawny, Brutal, Dexterous, Enduring, Energetic, 
Ferocious, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Stalwart, 
Steady, Tenacious, Tireless, Tough, Vigorous, Wiry 
Social Traits: Alluring, Beguiling, Charismatic, Channing, Commanding, 
Dignified, Diplomatic, Elegant, Eloquent, Empathetic, Expressive, Friendly, Genial, 
Gorgeous, Ingratiating, Intimidating, Magnetic, Persuasive, Seductive, Witty 
Mental Traits: Alert, Attentive, Clever, Creative, Cunning, Dedicated, 
Detennined, Discerning, Disciplined, Insightful, Intuitive, Knowledgeable, Obser- 
vant, Patient, Rational, Reflective, Shrewd, Vigilant, Wily, Wise 
I 
W 
I 
Abilities 
W 
Academics, Animal Ken, Athletics, Awareness, Brawl, Computer, Crafts, 
Dodge, Drive, Empathy, Enigmas, Etiquette, Expression, Finance, Firearms, Hobby] 
ProfessionnllExpert Ability, Intimidation, Investigation, Law, Leadership, Linguistics, 
Medicine, Meditation, Melee, Occult, Perfmawe, Politics, Primal-Urge, Repair, 
Rituals, Science, Scrounge, Security, Streetwise, Subterfuge, Survival 
I 
I 
Wackgrounas 
W 
Allies - 
Human or wolf friends and aides. 
Ancestors - Spiritual connection between Garou and their 
ancestry. 
Contacts - 
Sources of reliable information. 
Fetish - 
A magical item of variable power, with Storyteller 
Influence - 
Sway over the institutions of human society in any number of 
areas: Bureaucracy, Church, Finance, Health, High Society, Industry, Legal, Media, 
Occult, Police, Political, Street, Transportation, Underworld, University. 
Kinfolk - 
Non-shifting human or wolf relatives who do not suffer the 
Delirium. 
Mentor - 
An older or more experienced Garou instructor or patron. 
Pure Breed - 
Measures lineage and pedigree within Garou society. 
Resources - 
Material wealth and access to readily available cash. 
Rites - 
The number and/or level of rites one has learned. 
Totem - 
Totem spirit that instructs and guides one’s character or pack. 
approval. 
65 


I 
Megative G a i t s  
Negative Physical Traits: Clumsy, Cowardly, Demepit, Delicate, Docile, 
Negative Social Traits: Bestial, CaUOus, Condescending, Dull, Feral, 
Negative Mental Traits: Forgetful, GuUibk, Ignorant, Impatient, 
Flabby, Lame, Lethargic, Puny, Sickly 
Ndve, Obnoxious, Repugnant, Shy, Tactless, Untrustworthy 
1 Oblivious, Predictable, Submissive, Violent, Witless 
. 
Arch et y p e s 
Archetypes help to shape the personality of your character, creating the founda- 
tion for the motivations that get you out of bed every morning. Your Nature illustrates 
the inherent tendencies in your personality, who you really are deep down. This is 
usually the sum total of your experiences, so it’s very rare for a Nature to change (and 
should take extraordinary events to do so). Your Demeanor is the face you show the 
world. It’s possible for Nature and Demeanor to be the same (lupus find the idea of 
duplicity quite foolish), but most people are rarely so open, especially in the World of 
Darkness. The Archetypes below aren’t the only ones available; the Storyteller can 
suggest and approve others. 
During game play, your Nature Archetype can serve to give you concrete goals 
and behaviors, meaning you can call for a retest if a frenzy might cause you to violate 
your Nature. But beware - 
someone who knows your Nature can use it against you 
no differently than a Negative Trait. 
Alpha -You 
are a born leader and must sway others to follow your example. 
Autist - 
You have your secrets, and you will keep them at any cost. 
Bravo - 
It’s all about respect, and if you aren’t getting the proper amount of it, 
Builder -You seek to build something of lasting value, to leave a legacy that can 
Bureaucrat - Without the laws there would only be chaos, and that is 
Caregiver - 
You have a soft spot in your heart for anyone weaker than you, and 
Competitor-youmust finishfirst and be the bestofthe best, or you arenothing. 
Confidant - 
You empathize with people, and they trust you with their secrets. 
Conniver - 
W h y  do it yourself when you can get someone else to do it for you? 
Cub -Whether you’re not quite out of childhood, or you just never grew up, you 
want others to help and look after you; if you can’t get it, a little whining never hurt. 
Deviant - 
You don’t conform to society’s views of status quo, and you don’t 
really care if you do. 
Director - 
If it’s not your way it’s the highway; all ways are your ways. 
Explorer - 
The world out there is filled with fascinating places and secrets, and 
Fanatic -Your cause in life is more to you than a calling, it’s an all-consuming 
you aren’t above bullying in order to get it. 
be passed down for generations to come. 
unacceptable. 
you feel the need to protect the innocent and downtrodden. 
you want to see them all. 
obsession. 
66 


Follower - 
Taking charge was never your strong point. You’re Sancho Panza or 
Dr. Watson, someone who waits for another’s direction, and you give it with gusto. 
Gallant - 
You live for the dramatic, and always ingratiate yourself to an 
audience (whoever it happens to be). You love people, and you love their attention 
even more. 
Hedonist -The Apocalypse is inevitable, so you enjoy life to its fullest while you 
still can. 
Jester - 
You seek the humor in all things, both to mask your own pain and to 
encourage others to look beyond theirs. 
Judge - 
Without your shrewd eye looking over things, the world around you 
would disolve into chaos, or so you believe. 
Lone Wolf -You prefer solitude over companionship and tend to stay away from 
large groups; you’re all about looking out for number one. 
Martyr - 
You put out 100% effort of your blood, sweat and tears and expect 
nothing in return. 
Predator - 
The strong survive, the weak fall, and you believe you’re Darwinism 
in action. 
Rebel - 
You’re always bucking the trends and fighting the system. 
Reluctant Garou - 
It was not your choice to be a warrior of Gaia and you long 
for days before your First Change. Your destiny and your wishes are constantly at war 
with each other. 
Show-off -You 
do whatever it takes to impress the people around you, even 
if you must make a fool of yourself, to feel-self-worth. 
Survivor -You 
will survive no matter what the cost, no matter the danger or 
who gets in your way. 
Traditionalist - 
If it was good enough for your ancestors thousands of years ago 
then it’s good enough for you, too. 
Visionary - 
You have a dream for better times, and your faith inspires others. 
#reeb 
The Garou are one of the Changing Breeds, those who are an amalgamation of 
human and animal. To the humans and wolves, however, Garou are half-breeds and 
never truly accepted into their societies. Though the Garou depend on one another 
during daily living, they must turn to their full-blooded human and wolf relatives for 
mating. 
The offspring from a union between two werewolves suffer from various maladies, 
deformities and sterility. Worse yet, these metis are born in Crinos form and unable 
to change for eight years of life, requiring that they be raised away from society. It is 
for these reasons that Garou law prohibits reproduction between two werewolves, with 
a punishment that ostracizes the guilty parties from Garou society as much, if not more, 
than their metis offspring. 
The Garou closely watch over their human and wolf kin with whom they breed, 
and pay even closer attention to their offspring for signs of the recessive gene that 
dictates they have “bred true.” A truly successful birthing between a Garou and human 
or wolf results in another Garou while the more common birth is to a non-changing 
human or wolf, known as Kinfolk. Though either parent has an equal chance to pass 
on recessive shapeshifting gene, the mother determines a Garou’s breed. 
67 


31 
J 
Your breed also determines how close to Gaia you are. Homids are considered to 
have slipped away from her, while lupus have a strong inner connection to the Earth 
Mother and Her works. 
There are three breeds in Garou society to choose: homid (born to humans), 
lupus (born to wolves) and metis (born from the union of two Garou). 
Homid: You were born human. As a teenager you were plagued with vivid 
dreams of the hunting and running as an animal through forests, undergoing your First 
Change as a late teen or early adulthood. You may not have even known that your 
family was Kinfolk (or that you had a Garou parent) until you Changed. 
Nickname: Ape 
Initial Gnosis: 1 
Beginning Gifts: Muster of Fire, Persuasion, Smell of Man 
Metis: You are the offspring of two Garou, the embodiment of all that is impure 
according to the Litany. You spent the first years of your life in Crinos form in a sept, 
ignored and despised by other werewolves. As a metis, you suffer the sin of your parents 
through deformities and sterility, claiming neither human or wolf kin. 
Nickname: Mule (among others) 
Initial Gnosis: 3 
Beginning Gifts: Create Element, Primal Anger, Sense Wyrm 
Lupus: You were born a wolf and raised among wolves in the wild. It was not 
until you were almost full grown (about two years) that you became aware of your true 
werewolf nature. The world of humans and their technology is alien to you, and you 
depend heavily on your well-honed animal instincts. 
Nickname: Feral 
Initial Gnosis: 5 
Beginning Gifts: Hare’s Leap, Heightened Senses, Sense Prey 
Auspices 
Auspice is determined by the moon’s phase on the day you were born. It is asacred 
part of Garou society, how Garou determine who Gaia has chosen to be tricksters, 
warriors and everything in between. 
There are five auspices to choose from: Ragabash, Theurge, Philodox, Galliard 
and Ahroun. Each has its own set of values and limitations, and marks how much Rage 
fills each one. Ahroun, the warriors, have Rage to spare (after all, their job is to fight), 
while the jolly Ragabash have much less Rage (how can you keep others happy if you 
want to rip someone’s head off all the time?). 
Some truly exceptional Garou have rebelled against their auspice, rejecting their 
inherent characteristics for other ones. These are rare individuals; indeed, the 
decision to renounce one’s moon phase relinquishes all benefits reaped since the First 
Change. Garou choosing to follow a different auspice must be educated all over again. 
Such a choice is seen as extreme arrogance by many in the Nation - 
how dare they 
rebel against the role Gaia chose for them? 
The five auspices are: 
Ragabash: New Moon -Well-known 
as tricksters, the cunning Ragabash 
combat the Wyrm with cleverness. 
Nickname: The Trickster 
Initial Rage: 1 
68 


1 
UI e f i s 0 
is figure m e n s 
I 
All metis characters have some sort of disfigurement that brands them for 
life as the bastard union of two Garou. You must choose a disfigurement from the 
list below, or you may opt to create your own (with Storyteller permission). All 
Negative Traits that result from a disfigurement do not count toward Free Traits 
gained during the normal character generation process. 
Albino: No matter what form you take, you have no melanin in your body. 
Your skin is pink and tends to sunburn easily. Your hair is ghost-white, and your 
eyes appear pink or red. Not only do you look strange, but you’re also extremely 
light-sensitive. You must bid two Traits when operating in bright light without 
protective gear. 
Blind: The world of sight is lost to you. Perhaps your eyes don’t work, or 
maybe you have empty sockets where your eyes should be. You automatically fail 
any test involving vision. 
Chitinous Skin: You have a tough, leathery dermis that cracks and sheds 
constantly. As a result, you gain an extra Health Level, but you take theNegative 
Traits: Hairkss and Repugnant. 
Deaf: Something in your ears simply doesn’t work. You automatically lose 
all challenges where hearing is a factor. You are not necessarily mute, but being 
unable to hear yourself, speech and howling don’t come easy. 
Fits of Madness: Every so often, you go a little bit crazy. Choose a 
derangement. In times of extreme stress, make a test with the Storyteller to see 
if you slide into madness. 
Fragile ClawsLoose Teeth: Your natural weaponry is defective. If you 
attempt to bite or claw your target, you inflict bashing damage. Further, make a 
test to see if your claws or teeth break off in the attempt. 
Hairless: You have no hair anywhere on your body in any form. Odd 
enough in homid form, you look positively strange in lupus or Crinos form. You 
take the Negative Traits: Hairless and Repugnant. Furthermore, you must bid an 
extra Trait when initiating challenges during cold weather. 
Homs/Hooves: You have horns sprouting from your forehead - 
curving 
like a ram’s, or short goat’s horns, or stubby deer antlers. You might even have 
a single unicornlike horn. Conversely, you might have hooves like a deer or horse 
instead of feet. Whatever this deformity looks like, you must bid two Traits on 
Social Challenges. In Garou society, horns and hooves are the mark of prey, not 
predator, and using either in a fight may cost you Glory for fighting like prey. 
Hunchback: The name says it all; all you need is a cathedral. You cannot 
take the Physical Traits: Graceful, Lithe or Nimble nor the Social Traits: Alluring, 
Elegant, Gorgeous or Seductioe. In addition, you take the Negative Traits: Clumsy 
and Lame. 
No Sense of Smell: For creatures that depend on scent, this deformity can 
make life very difficult. You automatically fail any test involving your sense of 
smell. If you try to track someone with Primal-Urge, you must bid an extra Trait. 
Weak Immune System: You seem to catch every bug that comes along, and 
are often sick. You have no Bruised health levels; when you start marking 
damage, you begin with Hurt. 
Withered Limb: You have four limbs, but one doesn’t work right, perhaps 
due to atrophied muscles or missing digits. Depending on your form, you incur 
a two-Trait penalty when running or trying to use the limb. 
I 
w 
69 


-1 Auspice Gifts: Blur of the Milky Eye, Open Seal, Scent of Running Water 
Beginning Renown: Three in any combination 
Theurge: Crescent Moon - 
Sensitive and wise, the Seers can speak to spirits 
Nickname: The Seer 
Initial Rage: 2 
Auspice Gifts: Mother’s Touch, Sense Wyrm, Spirit Speech 
Beginning Renown: Three Wisdom 
Philodox: Half Moon - 
The Half Moons are the judges, law enforcers and 
arbitrators among Garou. 
Nickname: The Judge 
Initial Rage: 3 
Auspice Gifts: Resist Pain, Scent of the True Form, Truth of Gaia 
Beginning Renown: Three Honor 
Galliard: Gibbous Moon -The Moon Dancers weave vivid tales of Renown 
and past glories, passing on the knowledge of Garou ancestry through lyrical song and 
dance. 
and are familiar with the spirit-world. 
Nickname: The Moon Dancer 
Initial Rage: 4 
Auspice Gifts: Beast Speech, Call of the Wyld, Mindspeak 
Beginning Renown: Two Glory, one Wisdom 
Ahroun: Full Moon - 
Gaia’s chosen warriors, the Ahroun defend their 
brethren with all of their Rage, ready to die to protect against minions of the Wyrm. 
Nickname: The Warrior 
Initial Rage: 5 
Auspice Gifts: Falling Touch, Inspiration, Razor Claws 
Beginning Renown: Two Glory, one Honor 
Che G i b e s  
Your tribe is your Garou family, representing your heritage and defining some- 
thing about who you are and where you come from. Each tribe has its own set of 
strengths and weaknesses, biases and stereotypes. There are 12 tribes to choose from: 
Black Furies -These female warriors of Gaia are well-known as protectors of 
women and the Wyld’s sacred places. 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: No restrictions 
Beginning Gifts: Breath of the Wyld, Heightened Senses, Sense Wyrm 
Bone Gnawers - 
Scavengers and vagabonds of society, usually found on the 
streets in major cities, the Gnawers are looked down upon by most of their Garou-kin. 
Initial Willpower: 4 
Backgrounds: May not buy Ancestors, Pure Breed or Resources. 
Beginning Gifts: Cooking, Resist Toxin, Tagalong 
Children of Gaia - 
Known as mediators and healers of Garou society, they 
Initial Willpower: 4 
defenders of humanity against their brethren’s Rage. 
70 


Backgrounds: No restrictions 
[$ 
Beginning Gifts: Mercy, Mother’s Touch, Resist Pain 
Fianna - 
These Celtic Garou are celebrated as the bards and warriors of 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: No restrictions, but at least one level of Kinfolk is recommended. 
Beginning Gifts: Faerie Light, Persuasion, Resist Toxin 
Get of Fenris - 
Hailing from the Germanic and Scandinavian lands, the 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: May not buy Contacts. 
Beginning Gifts: Razor Claws, Resist Pain, Snarl of the Predator 
Glass Walkers -No other tribe is as adept with the technologies and devices 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: May not buy Ancestors, Mentor or Pure Breed. 
Beginning Gifts: Control Simpk Machine, Diagnosis, Trick Shot 
Red Talons - 
A tribe that is almost solely comprised of lupus (with a small but 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: May not buy human Allies, Contacts or Resources. All of their 
Beginning Gifts: Beast Speech, Scent of Running Water, Wolf at the Door 
Shadow Lords - 
Cunning and power-hungry, the Shadow Lords are always 
searching for new ways to strip the Silver Fangs of the reins of leadership over the 
Garou tribes. 
Britain, Ireland and Scotland, and love battle and celebration with equal vigor. 
ferocious and bloodthirsty Get are the most warlike of all Garou. 
of modern society, alienating them from the rest of Garou society. 
growing number of metis), they are the most feral of all Garou. 
Kinfolk are wolves. 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: May not buy Allies or Mentor. 
Beginning Gifts: Aura of Confidence, Fatal Flaw, Seizing the Edge 
Silent Striders - 
Solitary by nature, the tribe wanders the world as messengers 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: May not buy Ancestors or Resources. 
Beginning Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Siknce, Speed of Thought 
Silver Fangs - 
Regal and prestigious, they are considered the nobles of the 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: Must spend at least three Traits in Pure Breed. 
Beginning Gifts: Fakon’s Grasp, Lambent Flame, Sense Wyrm 
Uktena - 
Sly and enigmatic, the Uktena are shrouded in a myriad of mysteries 
Initial Willpower: 3 
Backgrounds: No restrictions. 
Beginning Gifts: Sense Magic, Shroud, Spirit Speech 
and tale-tellers. 
Nation, but inbreeding has tainted the tribe with madness. 
and magic. 


Wendigo - 
They are the last of the pure Native American Garou, very 
independent and distrustful of outsiders, including non-native Garou. 
Initial Willpower: 4 
Backgrounds: May not buy Contacts or Resources. 
Beginning Gifts: Call the Breeze, Camouflage, Resist Pain 
Attribute 5 (ai bbi ng Cr ai t 5 )  
Once you have chosen a breed, auspice and tribe, its time to bang out your 
Attributes, the meat and bones of your character. Attributes signify how strong your 
character is, whether she is beautiful or callous, smart or naive. 
The first step is to prioritize the categories - 
Physical, Social and Mental - 
in 
order of relevance to your character. It is best to refer to your character concept when 
prioritizing so that you don’t end up with dense philosopher or a frail warrior. Prioritize 
between your most significant category (primary), above average category (secondary) 
and your average or least significant category (tertiary). For example, a Theurge would 
most likely have her Mental Traits as primary while a Galliard who dances her stories 
would choose Physical Traits as her primary. 
When you enter into a situationwhere something important occurs, you must bid 
Traits applicable to the circumstances. If you are trying to boot someone in the head, 
you can bid the Physical Trait Quick as you use speed to snap your leg. You and your 
opponent can agree to disregard these limits and bid any Physical Trait, regardless of 
applicability. 
When you bid a Trait, you risk losing the Trait during a challenge. Should you 
lose a challenge, you temporarily lose access to that Trait without some means of 
refreshing it back into your pool (your mind goes blank, you trip over your tongue, you 
take an injury). Some situations require that you bid an additional Trait - 
when you 
are considered “Traits down” you are required to bid an additional Trait. 
P h y 5 i ca 1 Cr a i t s 
Strength-related: Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry 
Dexterity-related: Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick 
Stamina-related: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tireless 
Miscellaneous Physical: Agile, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigorous ,Brutal 
Agile: You are flexible and capable of deft movements such as dodging, jumping, 
Uses: Acrobatics. Athletics. Competitive events. Dodging. 
Brawny: Strong, bulky muscle-strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict 
Brutal: You are capable of acting bestial and ruthless. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. 
Dexterous: You possess a natural competency and skill with your hands or body. 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms). Pickpocketing. Punching. 
Enduring: A persistent hardiness against physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this Trait is a good one to risk as a second 
running and turning. 
damage. Power-lifting. All feats of strength. 
or successive bid. 
12 


Energetic: A strong internal drive propels you and, in physical situations, you can [ki 
L 
~~ 
draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal. 
Uses: Combat. 
Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical determination. 
Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. When in frenzy. 
Graceful: Control and balance in the motion and use of the entire body. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance. 
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging and dancing. 
Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile movements. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. 
Quick: Speedy, with a fast reaction time. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking. 
Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly from 
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an attack. 
Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions that 
Rugged: Hardy, tough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and pain 
Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you enter while injured. 
Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition. 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against overwhelming 
Steady: More than simply physically dependable - 
controlled, unfaltering and 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations. 
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will. 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
Tireless: You have the stamina of a marathon runner - 
you are less taxed by 
Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical Chal- 
Tough: An abrasive, aggressive attitude and a reluctance to submit. 
Uses: Whenever you’re wounded. 
Vigorous: Growing with a robust, vital strength. 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you’re on the defensive. 
Wiry: Chorded, muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movements. 
bodily harm. 
could take place over a period of time. 
to continue exertion. 
odds or a superior foe. 
balanced. You have firm mastery over your efforts. 
physical efforts than ordinary people. 
lenge with the same foe or foes. 
Negatioe dDhysical G a i t s  
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are prone to 
stumbling and dropping objects. 
73 


T$-v 
Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving your own neck is all that is impor- 
tant. You might even flee when you have the upper hand, just out of habit. 
Decrepit: You move and act as ifyou are old and infirm. Yourecoverfromphysical 
damage slowly, and unable to apply full muscular strength. Most efforts will make you 
tire easily. 
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are damaged easily by physical harm. 
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits. You lack physical 
persistence, and you tend to submit rather than fighting long battles. 
Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your strength well 
Lame: You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can be as obvious as 
Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or motivation. 
Puny: You are weak and inferior in strength. This Trait could refer to diminutive sue. 
Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds to physical stress as if it were in the 
against resistance. 
a missing leg or as subtle as a dysfunctional arm. 
throes of a debilitating illness. 
Social Kraits 
Charisma-related: Charismatic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Expressive, Genial 
Manipulation-related: Beguiling, commanding, Ingratiating, Persuasive 
Appearance-related: Alluring, Elegant, Gorgeous, Magnetic, Seductive 
Miscellaneous Social: Diplomatic, Empathetic, Friendly, Intimidating, Witty 
Alluring: An attractive and appealing presence that inspires desire in others. 
Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
Beguiling: The skill of deception and illusion. You can twist the perceptions of 
others and lead them to your beckon call. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. 
Charismatic: The talent of inspiration and motivation, the sign of a strong 
Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leadership. 
Charming: Your speech and actions make you attractive and appealing to others. 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This Trait implies 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. 
Dignified: Something about your posture and body carriage appears honorable 
Uses: Defending against Social Challenges. 
Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are dis- 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Elegant: Refined tastefulness. Even though you don’t need money to be elegant, 
Uses: High society or Silver Fang parties. Defending against Social Challenges. 
Eloquent: The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing manner. 
Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. 
leader. 
skill in the control and direction of others. 
and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well. 
pleased with what you say or do. 
you exude an air of richness and high society. 
74 


Empathetic: Able to identify and understand the emotions and moods of people [$ 
with whom you come in contact. 
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. 
Expressive: Able to articulate your thoughts in interesting, meaningful ways. 
Uses: Producing art of any kind. Acting. Performing. Any social situation in 
which you want someone to understand your meaning. 
Friendly: Able to fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short conversation, 
most find it difficult to dislike you. 
Uses: Convincing others. 
Genial: Cordial, kindly, warm and pleasant. You are pleasing to be around. 
Uses: Mingling at parties. Generally used in a second or later Social Challenge 
Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body that is 
Uses: Modeling, posing. 
Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor of people who know you. 
Uses: Dealing with elders in a social situation. Defending against Social Chal- 
Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that causes others to feel timid. 
Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others around. 
Magnetic: People feel drawn to you; those around you are interested in your 
Uses: Seduction. First impressions. 
Persuasive: Able to propose believable, convincing and correct arguments and 
Uses: Persuading or convincing others. 
Seductive: Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and your body 
Uses: Subterfuge, seduction. 
Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily to you, and you are 
Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting someone. 
with someone. 
good-looking to most people you meet. 
lenges. 
This Trait is particularly useful when attempting to cow opponents. 
speech and actions. 
requests. Very useful when someone else is undecided on an issue. 
to get what you want from others. 
perceived as a funny person when you want to be. 
Negatioe Social Gaits 
Bestial: You homid form is noticeably more feral than other humans. Perhaps you 
have oily hair covering your body, wolflike eyes, sharp yellowish teeth or you exude 
a musky body odor. 
Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffering of others. 
Your heart is a frozen stone. 
Condescending: Whether you mean it or not, others perceive in you a contempt 
that is impossible to hide. 
Dull: Those with whom you speak usually find you boring and uninteresting. 
Conversation with you is a chore. You do not present yourself well to others. 
Feral: The animalistic predator in you is evident in your actions. You scratch 
yourself, sniff at people or otherwise behave in a primitive fashion. 
._ 


Naive: You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication or maturity that most carry. 
Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or appearance. 
Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around you. Needless to say, you 
Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant. 
Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others find appropriate to the 
Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be unreliable, whether or not 
make a terrible first impression with strangers. 
social situation. 
you really are. 
Mental G a i t s  
Perception-related: Attentive, Discerning, Insightful, Observant, Vigilant 
Intelligence-related: Cunning, Disciplined, Knowledgeable, Rational, Reflective 
Wits-related: Alert, Clever, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily 
Miscellaneous Mental: Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Patient, Wise 
Alert: Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly when it occurs. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. 
Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. When 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Seeing through Blur ofthe Milky Eye when you 
Clever: Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well on your feet. 
Uses: Using a Mental Challenge against another character. 
Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative, which implies an ability to 
produce unusual solutions to your difficulties. You can create artistic pieces. A 
requirement for any true artist. 
something extraordinary happens, you are usually ready for it. 
don’t expect it. 
Uses: Anything creative. 
Cunning: Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity. 
Uses: Tricking other characters. 
Dedicated: you give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of your causes 
is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed. 
Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. 
Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully committed. 
Uses: Staredowns. Useful in normal Mental Challenges. 
Discerning: Discriminating, able to pick out details, subtleties and idiosyncra- 
Uses: Investigating and tracking. 
Disciplined: Your mind is structured and controlled. This rigidity gives you an 
Uses: Staredowns. Useful in Mental Challenges. 
Insightful: The power of looking at a situation and gaining an understanding of it. 
Uses: Investigation (though not a defense against it). 
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you without con- 
Uses: Spontaneous deduction. 
Nothing can divert your intentions to succeed once you have made up your mind. 
sies. You have clarity of vision. 
edge in battles of will. 
scious reasoning, as if by instinct. 
76 


Knowledgeable: Youknow copious anddetailed information about awide variety [$ 
- 
of topics. This Trait represents “book-learning.’’ 
Uses: Remembering information your character might know. 
Observant Depth of vision, the power to look at something and notice the 
Uses: Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
Patient: Tolerant, persevering and steadfast. You can wait out extended delays 
Uses: Staredowns or other mental battles after another Traits has been bid. 
Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your ability to reduce 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Defending against an 
Reflective: Meditative self-recollection and deep through. The Trait of the 
Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending against most Mental 
Shrewd: Astute and artful, able to keep your wits about you and accomplish 
Uses: Defending against Mental Challenges. 
Vigilant: Watchful. You have the disposition of a guard dog; your attention 
Uses: Defending against investigation. Seeing through Blur of the Milky Eye. 
Wily: Sly and full of guile. Because you are wily, you can trick and deceive easily. 
Uses: Deceiving others characters. Lying under duress. Confusing mental situa- 
Wise: An overall understanding of the workings of the world. 
Uses: Giving advice. Dispensing fortune cookie wisdom. 
important aspects of it. 
with composure. 
concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world. 
aura reading. Not used as an initial bid. 
serious thinker, Reflective enables you to consider all aspects of the conundrum. 
Challenges. 
mental feast with efficiency and finesse. 
misses little. 
More appropriate for mental defense than for attack. 
tions. 
Negative Wental G a i t s  
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things. 
Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled. 
Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know anything. 
Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You want 
everything to go your way - 
immediately. 
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You’d be lucky if you noticed an elephant 
flying through your bedroom. 
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers can 
figure out what you intend to do next. 
Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial; details 
of perception are usually lost on you. 
Submissive: No backbone; you relent and surrender at any cost rather than stand 
up for yourself. 
Violent An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into rages at the slightest 
provocation, and frenzy is always close to the surface. This is a Mental Trait because 
it represents mental instability. 
77 


Witless: Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Foolish and slow to 
act when threatened. 
Rbi f i  ties 
Abilities represent particular bits of knowledge gained over the years of study and 
experience, the tricks of the trade and the wisdom from many, many mistakes. Your 
Abilities represent special training or talent, and as such, they often allow performance 
of tasks that would be otherwise impossible. Even with more mundane situations, 
Abilities allow for a much-improved chance of success. 
When a character performs a risky or uncertain action, Abilities aid the outcome. 
If you attempt a task and fail, you can temporarily expend one of your appropriate Ability 
Traits to gain an immediate retest. You temporarily lose the risked Ability and the initial 
Trait(s) bidforthe task( ifany) because you lost the initial test, but youcanstillovercome 
the challenge. Abilities used like this are recovered at the next game session. 
A character with multiple levels in a given Ability is certainly more experienced 
and proficient than an individual with just oneTrait. Most characters will fall intoone 
of three levels of Ability; greater amounts are very rare, limited to elders and ancestors. 
The total level of Ability in a given field corresponds roughly to the character’s 
professional capabilities: 
Competent (Able to earn a living) 
Professional (Licensed, capable of supervision) 
Journeyman (Bachelor’s degree or instructor) 
Expert (Master’s degree or researcher) 
Master (Doctorate or true innovator) 
Some tasks are simply toodifficult, or they require too muchskill, to be attempted 
by a character without the requisite Abilities. The Storyteller may require the 
possession or use of an Ability Trait to perform a specific task. In this case, characters 
without the Ability, or who have already used all of their levels of the Ability, cannot 
attempt the task at all. 
Lupus Garou will also have a difficult time learning certain Abilities, as their 
animalistic natures are not in tune with the ins and outs of man. For this reason, they 
are restricted from purchasing the following during character creation: Academics, 
Computer, Crafts, Drive, Etiquette, Finance, Firearms, Law, Linguistics, Performance, 
Politics, Repair, Security, Streetwise. 
When an Ability is used against a set scenario or object (such as using Investiga- 
tion to uncover information), the feat usually has a difficulty assigned by the 
Storyteller. In such a Static Challenge, you may be required to risk a Trait for a trivial 
task, or even be asked to bid two or more Traits for a difficult, risky or tedious task. 
Some Abilities can be used against an opponent instead of facilitating a regular 
undertaking. In this case, the Ability is expended to gain a retest in a challenge with 
the opponent. 
Focusing Abilities 
A few Abilities specifically require a concentrated area of study. One cannot simply 
study allcrafts at once, after all. These Abilities arespecifically noted in the descriptions. 
When you take such an Ability, you must choose an area of study, a specific topic that 
you have concentrated on. Each area is considered a separate Ability, so Linguistics: 
Spanish is completely separate from Linguistics: Hebrew, and so on. 
78 


Ability Specializations 
Within a given area of expertise, some practitioners further hone their knowl- 
edge to a razor’s edge. By choosing a specialization in an Ability, you fine-tune your 
skills with a particular facet of that talent. 
Ability specializations are a wholly optional rule. Remember to ask your Story- 
teller before taking a specialization. Sometimes they can add even more color to your 
character; however, keeping track of everyone’s special Abilities can be tedious for 
Storytellers and record-keepers. 
Taking a specialization requires that you spend one Free or Experience Trait on 
an ability that you already possess. Whenever you perform a task with that specializa- 
tion - even if you do not expend the Ability- you gain a one-Trait bonus on resolving 
challenges as long as you have at least one level of the main Ability left to spend. You 
may only have one specialization in any given Ability; you cannot take Brawl: White 
Tiger Kung Fu and Brawl: Krav Maga and expect an amazing combo feat. You also can 
never gain more than one Bonus Trait from specializations, even if more than one 
would be appropriate to a given challenge. Even if you possess Law: Criminal and 
Investigation: Research, you only get the one-Trait bonus on a test for trial preparation, 
despite your multiple specializations. 
A specialization is a concentrated area of expertise or practice. You cannot take, 
for example, take a Melee specialization in “swords,” nor a Medicine specialization of 
“healing.” Appropriate specializations refer to one focus of expertise or to one type of 
knowledge within the Ability, such as Academics: Antiquity. 
You may take a specialization within an area of study. As such, you concentrate 
your research in one particular facet of that sub-specialized Ability. Thus, you could 
have Computer: Hacking with a specialization in Virwes, or Crafts: Blacksmithing with 
the specialization of Farrier. 
Note that the Bonus Trait from a specialization is not bid or used like other Traits. 
You simply are “one Trait up” on challenges within that specialization. 
Aca be m i cs 
You possess higher learning beyond the normal bounds of education. With 
Academics, you can debate the existence of gravity or give Ben Stein a challenge. This 
broad Ability covers all sorts of arts and humanities. Academics allows you to recognize 
historical, artistic and cultural references, pursue studies into those fields, or create a 
critique. Calling on Academics may require a Mental or Social Challenge to determine 
your exact level of competence. 
You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art History, 
Classics,Joumalism, Theology or anything else that could be studied with higher education. 
Animal Ken 
You understand the temperament of animals, allowing you to empathize and 
communicate with them. It’s not like Dr. Doolittle; rather you can deal with them 
more equitably. Though most animals may retain a healthy fear of the Rage lurking 
within you, you know what drives them and how to assuage their fears. 
WithAnimalKen, youcan trainananimal (especially aKinfolk) to perfomspecific 
behaviors, or attempt to deduce an animal’s state of being with a Mental Challenge. If 
you work with an animal for at least a month or so, you may be able to teach it a simple 
trick, up to a limit of one trick for each Mental Trait the animal possess. 
19 


Athletics 
You might have been a jock in high school, or perhaps you are just naturally 
talented, but you are skilled in all manners of athletic endeavors. You can throw a ball, 
catch, sprint, climb, jump and swim and run with the best of them. This is a benefit 
for you, especially for Garou who fight often and require athleticism to keep bouncing 
all over the place. 
Your Athletics Ability is used for retests on most forms of raw physical activity: 
acrobatics, running, climbing, jumping, swimming, throwing, ballet dancing and 
other activities. 
Awareness 
You have a talent for knowing when things are amiss, whether by that strange 
feeling in the pit of your gut or through scrupulous observation. This is particularly 
useful for sensing when other supernatural creatures are about, detecting evidence of 
Wyrm-taint, or just knowing when things are about to get crazy. Awareness requires 
a Mental Challenge to use. 
drawl 
You roughed up the kids at the schoolyard, hard-styled the martial arts students 
and kicked ass in bars fights. You might have some military training, or maybe you just 
grew up with a bunch of rough-and-tumble siblings. Whatever the case, you know how 
to dish out damage with your fists and feet. 
Use the Brawl Ability for retests in combat when you are using your natural 
weapons (teeth, claws or fists). This Ability is also the province of the martial arts, 
although you should specify which art when taking this Ability. 
Computer 
Most Garou are not familiar with new technology and, as a result, tend to shy 
away from all things artificial and silicon, although a few daring souls have move 
through the modem world with ease. With the Computer Ability, you are versed in the 
methods of basic computer operation, programming and accessing other computers. 
You can hack into systems, write complex programs and viruses, and decode 
unfamiliar languages by using Computer with a successful Mental Challenge (difficulty 
determined by the Storyteller). 
Crafts 
You build and construct things. Depending on your specific area of expertise, you 
might know how to remodel a house or sculpt figures out of ice. As such, you must 
specify an area of expertise, a focus, such as Weaving, Carpentry or Sculpting. Crafts also 
covers more labor-intensive technical skills, such as Mechanics and Electronics. 
Making or repairing an item with Crafts is decided by a challenge, with difficulty 
set by the Storyteller based on the type of job (drawing up architectural schematics is 
decisively more difficult than sanding a 2 x 4). 
Crafts also includes body art, such as tattooing, piercing or other applications of 
body alterations. 
80 


Oobge 
You possess enough fighting savvy to avoid physical harm by manipulating your 
body away from directed attacks and, to a lesser degree, gunfire -you 
know when to 
hit the floor or how to dive for cover. You can only use Dodge against any attack that 
you’re consciously aware of: a fight in which you are a participant or a drive-by 
shooting that you happen to see unfold. Dodge is used to retest challenges where you 
attempt to avoid physical harm. 
O r i u e  
You’re at home with either a stick shift or an automatic, rush hour is no concern, 
and you can get the most performance out of a car. In dangerous situations, you can 
evade traffic and even use your vehicle as a weapon. Bear in mind that just because you 
candrive astation wagondoesn’t mean youcandrive asemi withequal ease. AMental 
Challenge may be required to allow you to figure out where everything is in an 
unfamiliar vehicle. 
Drive tests most often involve a Physical Challenge with your reflexes. 
&mpathy 
You are sensitive to the moods and emotions of people around you. When you 
listen to someone, you understand his feelings. You can identify with others and tell 
when people are lying or holding back while talking to you. 
With a Social Challenge and the expenditure of a level of Empathy, you can 
determine if the last thing that someone said was a lie (although Subterfuge can defend 
against this expenditure). Alternately, you can attempt to determine the subject’s 
current Demeanor. 
& n i g m a s 
You are good at solving mysteries and puzzles - 
you can solve word searches in 
a few minutes or play with Zen koans for fun. This Ability measures how well you can 
solve problems, delve into metaphysical questions or collect scattered details into a 
coherent whole. Enigmas is used with Mental Challenges to see if you can figure out 
a problem set before, like solving a maze or answering a riddle. The Storyteller may 
require a number of Traits to be risked, depending on the difficulty of the puzzle. 
&tiquef te 
You know when to bow in the presence of an elder and how to address her in a 
polite manner. You can hold a toast with the best of them, and you keep your cool in 
any social scenario, from high tea to a gang rally. 
The Etiquette Ability can be used with Social Tests to impress or blend in at 
parties. If you make a socialfauxpas, you may expend an Etiquette Ability immediately 
to negate the gaffe - 
your character knew better than to make the mistake. 
&xpression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the Muse strikes, you put pen to 
paper (or fingers to instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion and stirring imagery. 
You can convey message and meaning in your art, from symphonies to poetry, and 
whatever you write is both clear and moving. While it is possible to create a work 
without Expression, it may very well be technically brilliant but emotionally sterile. 
81 


You understand interest, CDs, stock market transactions, currency exchanges 
and GNPs. You can also use your Finance to balance books, run a business of your own, 
follow a money trail, perform an audit or clean up an accounting mess with a Mental 
Challenge (difficulty dependent on the task, as determined by the Storyteller). 
Alternately, you can spend a level of Finance Ability to raise $250 in cash between 
games. Not every use of Finance is so benign - 
money-laundering has to come from 
somewhere. 
9’ 
irearms 
A little time at the gun range goes a long way. You know how to hold, fire and 
clean a gun. You can unjamone, too, and you can tell different models apart. You know 
how to stand to get the best aim, how to handle recoil and how to take care of problems 
in the field. 
If you posses the Firearms Ability, you may use your Mental Traits for gun combat 
instead of using Physical Traits, at no cost. You can expend a level of Firearms for a 
retest in ranged-fire combat. 
UobbylbrofessionallLxpert Ability 
In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have achieved 
some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some work on the side, 
or perhaps you’ve specifically studied a topic. 
Hobby/Professiond/Expert 
Ability is a catch-all category for highly unusual Abili- 
ties like Garou Lore, Undertaking, Demolitions and so on. The Storyteller must 
specifically approve any Ability of this type and will define its capabilities. 
Intimibation 
Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques for terrifying people 
into compliance. This could be anything from physical size, to a toothy grin in your 
Crinos form, to knowing which emotional buttons to push. 
You can use Intimidation when trying to scare someone with a Social Challenge, 
with certain Gifts, or in retests where the Delirium would have an effect. 
Investigation 
You know how to pick up clues and to put together disparate pieces of informa- 
tion. By habit and training, you can set a jumbled mass of data into order, discovering 
identities, motives and patterns in an otherwise chaotic scene. You can use Investiga- 
tion with a Mental Challenge when trying to puzzle out meaning to a random scene. 
Law 
Nobody is above the law, except those who know how to use it to their own 
advantage. You’re one of the latter. Perhaps you uphold the law, or maybe you twist 
it to your own ends. Your knowledge of Law allows you to understand legal processes, 
courts and lawyers and to use them effectively. 
Use the Law Ability in court situations or with Social Challenges involving legal 
matters. Because the legal body is so vast, your Storyteller may require you to select a 
particular area of study (Criminal, Entertainment, etc.). Alternately, you may choose 
make a specialized study of the Litany or other Garou law. 
82 


Leabership 
When you speak, people listen. A good speaking voice and self-confidence lend 
a powerful presence to a leader. The Leadership Ability represents your ability to 
motivate people and to get them to follow your guidance. Even among those who do 
not know or respect you, you can demand attention. 
You can use Leadership with a Social Challenge to try to get a minor favor or task 
from a character. 
Linguistics 
You’ve studied a language - 
or languages - 
other than your native tongue. 
Whether you frequent the global community, or it is necessary for other studies, you 
can speak, write and read other languages. 
You must choose one language for each level of Linguistics you possess. Thus, you 
could have Linguistics: Cantonese and Linguistics: German. Alternately, you can focus 
on the underlying study of Linguistics itself, granting some understanding of the 
principles behind the structure of language. Languages need not be spoken; American 
Sign Language or Egyptian hieroglyphics would also be considered fields for study. 
Those who wish to converse in another language (but cannot actually do so) should 
hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb, making an L-shape to indicate to 
other players that the characters are not speaking English. Those who wish to listen 
to the conversation must also possess the language. 
Mebicine 
You know how the human (and, to a lesser extent, Garou) body functions. You 
can speed the recovery of an injured mortal, or you can use your knowledge to inflict 
injury. Many Garou learn just enough to heal their Kinfolk and their pack members. 
You can use the Medicine Ability to speed a mortal’s healing by one level: A 
Wounded mortal would heal as if Bruised, for instance. Medicine may be used for other 
sorts of research and lab work with a Mental Challenge. As Medicine represents such 
a vast field, you Storyteller may require you to specify what you know (Pharmaceuticals, 
Internal Medicine, General Practice). 
Webif at ion 
This represents your Ability to center your emotions and your energies, relaxing 
and controlling mind and body. Garou with Meditation can focus their energies of the 
Sacred Mother and regain any lost Gnosis Traits by meditating for 10 minutes out of 
game; after 10 minutes, the Garou may convert one Mental or Meditation Trait to a 
Gnosis Trait. You needn’t bend into a pretzellike position to successfully meditate; 
Meditation techniques can be highly personal so long as they allow you to concentrate. 
Melee 
Ifyou’vegot something in your hands, you’re adeadlyfighter. Be it aklaive, astick 
or a pair of silver spoons, you can use it to damaging effect. Expend Meke for retests 
in hand-to-hand combat when you are using a close combat weapon like a knife or 
sword. Certain weapons function best when wielded by a character with Melee. 
83 


The hidden world teems with mysterious secrets. By unlocking universal keys and 
studying the basics of spirituality, you can learn the shadowy paths of the cosmos. Your 
Occult Ability serves as a general knowledge of the supernatural, alerting you to the 
existence of many varied sorts of inhuman creatures and paranormal events. 
Some Gifts rely on the Occult Ability. Occult also grants some basic (and often 
erroneous) knowledge of the various denizens of the supernatural world; for more 
detailed information, study Expert Ability: Lore in a particular subject of interest. 
@e r f a  r ma nce 
You are a true virtuoso. Whateveryour chosen medium, you have a gift for artistic 
endeavors. Whether playing an instrument, singing, dancing or acting, your skills 
allow you to entertain and even earn money. 
Your Performance Ability can be used to earn a modest income, just like other 
artistic trade skills. You must also choose a specific art form when you take Performance, 
such as playing an instrument, singing, acting or dramatic readings. Note that 
Performance is generally anything done before an audience while Expression most often 
focuses on literary works, and Crafts concentrates on the creation of physical objects 
(such as paintings or sculptures). 
@o li t ics 
Through observation, intrigue and a bit of spin doctoring, you’ve learned how to 
handle appearances, what a speech really means and where the deal-making is going 
on. In short, it’s Politics as usual. 
The Politics Ability is useful primarily in dealing with mortal society or Influence. 
You may be able to manipulate the outcome of local political actions, with the proper 
Influence and some well-placed Social Challenges; Politics is also used to discern 
hidden motives and broker deals. Knowledge of Politics includes, by extension, an 
understanding of the bureaucratic levels of power. You know how to cut through red 
tape or obstruct others with it. By determining who’s important in a given strata, you 
can usually avoid wasting time and simply go straight to the person with the power to 
do what you want. 
The reverse can hold true if you take Politics, but specialize in Garou or Sept. By 
this, you might be able to figure out who’s the real power at a sept (which may not be 
the alpha) or when someone might be jockeying for greater control. 
@rimal-Urge 
As primal creatures, Garou have a long history of fighting bravely and ferociously 
as proud warriors in service to Gaia. Primal-Urge represents the close tie you have to 
this ancestry, not only as a wolf but also as a half-wolf. As such, you may spend a Primal- 
Urge Trait to instantly shift between forms instead of a Rage Trait or assist you in 
passing through the Gauntlet. 
Homid characters may not begin play with this Ability, except with the 
Storyteller’s permission. 
Repair 
I 
You possess a working understanding of what makes things tick. With time, tools 
and parts, you can fix or modify most of the trappings of modern society. This 
84 


knowledge also allows you to excel at sabotage. The Repair Ability is widespread 
among inventors, mechanics and handymen. Using this Ability usually calls for a 
Mental Challenge, the difficulty of which depends on such factors as the item’s 
complexity, tools and parts available, extent of damage and time spent on the repairs. 
Rituals 
Rites are immensely important to the Garou. With this Ability, you know 
something about the traditions, ceremonies and other sacred mysteries. With enough 
time and study, you may even know something about the rites of tribes other than your 
own, or even a fragment or two about the ceremonies of the Sanga. This knowledge 
is necessary to learn rituals - 
your rating must be euqal to or greater than the level of 
the rite you wish to learn (1-2 for Basic, 3-4 for Intermediate, 5 for Advanced). You 
can expend a level of Rituals for a retest when performing a ritual or rite. 
Science 
The modern Information Age sees the explosion of all manner of studies. 
Categorizing and breaking down the world into many different forms, the methods of 
logic and reason gives sentient beings the means to understand the universe, or at least 
parts of it. Education in Science covers techniques of inquiry, modem studies and a 
broad range of underpinning work in diverse range of fields. 
Science requires an area of particular study: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Metal- 
lurgy, Electrical Engineering and Botany are all possibilities though such a list is far from 
comprehensive. Combining a Science with different fields may give a wide variety of 
results. For example, Science: Metallurg)r with Academics may give results regarding 
historical research and theory while the same Science with Occult may center on 
ancient alchemy. Actually constructing objects theorized with Science may require the 
Crafts Ability. 
Using a particular branch of Science usually requires a Mental Challenge of some 
sort to determine the success of research or the viability of theoretical work. 
Security 
Whatever side of the law you’ve worked on has granted you experience in 
Security techniques. You know about police operations and guard work and how to 
disrupt such operations. Locks, traps, security systems and alarms are all within your 
purview. With a little time, you can put together Security measures for a location; you 
can also defeat such measures. 
Use the Security Ability with Mental Traits to set up a secure area or network, or 
to formulate a plan for breaching such a network. Security is also used to disarm traps, 
alarms and other devices and defeat locks. At the discretion of a Narrator, you may be 
required to use a Physical Trait related to Dexterity when attempting to bypass a 
physical lock or alarm. 
Scrounge 
You’re exceptionally good at finding stuff. From a crucial part for an 1890s 
gramophone, invitations to the most exclusive gallery opening in town or a true Philly 
cheesesteak outside of Philadephia, you’re a wiz at knowing where to go, who to talk 
to and how to get what you need. Granted, the things you get are rarely brand new, 
or exactly right, and do take time and favors to acquire. Still such an Ability is useful 
when your finances are less than sparkling or theft is out of the question. 
85 


+ 7 a - / l / k m m u w D m  
Scrounge is typically used in conjunction with Mental Traits (although the 
Storyteller may occasionally require a Social Challenge for haggling) and can be useful 
when looking for particular items or searching a place that is in shambles. 
Stealth 
By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and quietly, you 
can evade notice or sneak past people. You know how best to take advantage of 
surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities for unnoticed 
movement are not lost on you as you understand the uses of timing and diversion. 
With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past the notice 
of guards and searchers (who contest your Ability with their Mental Traits and 
InvestigationAbility).YoualsouseStealth toaugment GiftssuchasBluroftheMilky Eye. 
St reef wise 
Word on the street is known to you. Even if you don’t have any particular friends 
or contacts in the area, you know about the different communities and gangs that hang 
out in town. You recognize tagging and other territorial markings, and you know some 
of the signs, colors and clothes that denote the homeless, gangbangers, prostitutes, 
criminals and social workers. 
Using the Streetwise Ability, with your Mental Traits, lets you recognize the 
influence of various gangs or street communities. You also know about criminal 
organizations and activities, and you could perform a little larceny yourself. An 
appropriate Social Challenge can help smooth dealings with a hostile gang (though 
you may need Etiquette to make a really good impression). 
Subterfuge 
There are many ways to talk about something, and an equal number of ways to 
uncover the truth, Even in idle conversation, people use little white lies, slip hints 
about their true motives, try to guide the course of discussion and give away their 
secrets indirectly. The art of Subterfuge is the art of reading these tricks and using them 
effortlessly. 
When someone confronts you with one of your lies, you can use the Subterfuge 
Ability in your own defense (if someone uses the Empathy Ability, for instance). By 
guiding a conversation, you can also unearth someone’s Negative Traits; if you manage 
to steer conversation to a particular topic in play, you can expend a Subterfuge Ability 
and make a Social Challenge to determine one of the subject’s Negative Traits related 
to the topic. Because it deals with deceit, Subterfuge is useful when retesting against 
attempts to trick and deceive you. 
Survival 
It’s a jungle out there beyond the streets and cities, and if you don’t know how to 
find the necessities, death is assured. Survival represents a knowledge of terrain, how 
to find shelter, where to find water, techniques in hunting, identifying edible and 
poisonous plants and so on. No matter how bad things look, you know enough to cover 
the basics until you can reach civilization. 
Hunting and avoiding danger in the wilderness usually relies on a Physical 
Challenge, With Survival, you can substitute your Mental Traits if you so desire. 
Specialties in Survival can relate to skills like Tracking, Hunting, Trapping or to types 
of environment (Arctic, Desert, Forest). 
86 


Your character’s Backgrounds help to flesh out ties with mortal agencies, role in 
Garou society and beneficial resources available. Each Background is used differently. 
In general, having multiple Traits in a given Background allows for better or more 
common use of that benefit. Some Backgrounds directly affect your character’s 
creation and development; others are called into play later during the game. 
Allies 
A few friends, either kept from the days before your Change or possibly all 
through your lifetime, help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few calls and 
cut a few deals to get assistance in a wide range of activities. Your Storyteller will 
probably require you to define how you keep your Allies and their relations to you. 
Each Allies Trait possessed represents one person that you can call on for aid. 
Unlike Influence, your Allies have special talents that make them better than the 
average person on the street. Though your Allies may not be aware of your werewolf 
nature, they can be quite useful if directed properly. 
In general, your Allies do no show up in play. Instead, you can use them for certain 
services between game sessions by notifying your Storyteller. 
An Ally can be directed to follow up on research or activities that you have 
started. If you undertook a specific task previously, like tailing someone, researching 
a project or building a device, your Allies can continue the work, doing so with one 
Ability Trait’s worth of expertise. As long as they work on the project, your Allies Trait 
for the individual is tied up. 
If you need a particularly competent Ally, you can expend multiple Traits to 
gain access to amortal with multiple levels ofan Ability or Influence. Each Allies Trait 
that you spend after the first gives an extra level of expertise to your allies. They may 
use this expertise on your behalf, though rarely with your own skill, and they only help 
as long as you tie up your Allies Traits in this manner. 
Be wary of calling on your Allies too often. An Ally may call on you for mutual aid 
or refuse to help if pressed into dangerous or illegal activities. 
Ance sf or s 
Your past is connected to Garou of great renown, warriors of valor and honor or 
perhaps healers of exceptional skill. Their superior skills are always in the back of your 
mind, and each Trait you possess strengthens the link you share with these ancestors. 
The Ancestors Background grants you the ability to spend a Trait and tap into this 
ancestral wisdom and experience, substituting a level of an Ability that you do not 
already possess. The Storyteller should call for a challenge, and on a win or tie, you can 
successfully substitute an Ancestors Trait for a Trait in an unknown Ability. 
Contacts 
With the right Contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts of useful 
information. Although having an “ear to the wall” doesn’t necessarily provide you 
with loyal servants, it does mean that you know whom to ask when looking for the 
movers and shakers behind the scenes. 
In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and 
information. When you call on your contacts, you make a few phone calls, check with 
likely snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and information as if 
87 


L
m
m
-
d
/
/
4
L
w
w
D
w
d
&
 
possessed of a certain amount of Influence. Doing so lets you find out exactly what’s 
going on in the city within a particular area. You can get information of a level equal 
to however many contacts you use. Ifyou useContactsx3 on Industry, for instance, you 
get information as if digging up dirt with Industry x 3 Influence. The advantage of the 
Contacts Background is that contacts can be switched from place to place each game, 
getting information in different areas at your demand. 
Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require you to 
spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of a Storyteller. On 
occasion, accidents can cause contacts in one area to dry up, such as astrike that affects 
your Industry contacts or a particularly unlucky astronomical conjunction that sends 
your Occult contacts running for the hills. Your contacts will not generally function 
as aides or lackeys - 
that is the purview of the Allies and Retainers Backgrounds. 
W i s h  
Many cultures have their own customs and traditions for passing on family 
heirlooms, from tests of loyalty to primogeniture, distributing all sorts of objects and 
titlesof land, mementos or cold hard cash. The Garou share these similar customs, with 
a Fetish valued as the most prized of all possessions to be passed down from generation 
to generation. A Fetish is an object of mystical properties; it could be anything from 
a box that stores Gnosis to a weapon of deadly potential. Fetishes are usually the 
creations of long-dead werewolves from a time when Gaia’s raw power was not so 
blemished by the taint of the Wyrm. 
Each level of this Background increases the power of the Fetish passed down to 
your character. Characters may request a specific fetish during character creation, 
however it is the Storyteller who has the final distribution decisions. It is recom- 
mended that characters not start the game with a fetish as it must be earned through 
game play (and Renown), nor are klavies allowable fetishes to be bought with this 
Background during character creation. See “Klaive” rules on page 255. 
Kinfolk 
You have close ties to one or more Kinfolk, and they will aid you to the best of 
their ability. Kinfolk are humans and wolves who lack the gene necessary to become 
true Garou; however they are still immune to the Delirium and are prime candidates 
as reproductive partners. 
Though no more supernaturally effective than a run-of-the-mill mortal, Kinfolk 
are an invaluable network of hospitality and information. You should work with your 
Storyteller to determine the capabilities of these Kinfolk; a Kinfolk may be skillful but 
unmotivated, or loyal but inept. No Kinfolk is perfect, however they all can be a great 
help. 
A Kinfolk can be assigned to watch over a particular location. Generally, if 
someone attempts to break into your house, the Kinfolk there will attempt to stop the 
intruder. 
A Kinfolk can be used to manage your assets and perform tasks. Kinfolk tied up 
in this fashion allow you to manage more Influence than normal; they add to the 
number of Attribute Traits that you possess for purposes of counting your total 
Influences. Each Kinfolk directed in this fashion adds one to your maximum Influence 
Traits. IfKinfolk are later lost or killed, the excess InfluenceTraits are lost, starting with 
the highest levels of Influence held. 
88 


Mentor 
An older or more experienced Garou looks after you and comes to your aid 
occasionally. Whatever the case, you can get assistance from your Mentor, though his 
favor may be fickle. 
When you call on your Mentor, you risk a certain number of Traits to achieve a 
given effect. A lowly one-Trait Mentor probably knows only little more than you, 
while a five-Trait Mentor may well have luminous standing with your region and a wide 
range of potent powers. Regardless, taking up your Mentor’s valuable time is costly. You 
must engage in a Simple Test when you call on your Mentor. If you succeed, your 
Mentor deigns to aid you. If you tie, your Mentor grants you assistance, but then require 
something in return. If you fail, your Mentor demands the favor first before helping. In 
any case, your Mentor can be called on only once in any given game session, and only 
if you have an appropriate way to contact him or her. 
The level of aid that your Mentor can give depends on the number of Traits in this 
Background (and Storyteller approval, of course): 
For one Trait, your Mentor is privy to a single piece of specialized information 
at a level above your won. If you have Gurou Lore x 2, for instance, your Mentor can 
be called on to gift you with one piece of information from Gurou Lore x 3. 
For two Traits, you can borrow one level of Contacts, Influence or Resources 
from your Mentor for the duration of the game. If your mentor is very powerful (four 
or five Traits), you can borrow two levels. 
Two Traits allow your Mentor to instruct you in a Basic Gift. 
For three Traits, your Mentor can instruct you in an Intermediate Gift. 
Also at a cost of three Traits, your Mentor can train you in the ways of a special 
Hobby/Professional/E~ert Ability that is outside your normal ken, such as Wruith Lore. 
For four Traits, your Mentor can train you in an Advanced Gift. 
For five Traits, your Mentor can train you in the phenomenal powers of the 
elders if your deeds and Renown are worthy enough to merit such secrets. 
Since Mentors can prove unbalancing by providing too many different powers 
over the course of a long game, the Storyteller may lower your total Mentor Traits as 
you call on this knowledge. This decrease represents the fact that as your character 
learns the Mentor’s secrets, the Mentor has less left to teach. 
@ure fi‘reeb 
Just as there was a division between nobility and peasantry, so is there a recognized 
separation between the descendents of the greatest and lowliest of Gaia’s warriors. It is 
your pedigree as much as it is a measure of your noble lineage. Garou may claim to 
descend from the wisest, most courageous warriors of valor and mettle, but it’s all talk if 
their lineage is not as distinguishable as the nose on your face, as is the case with Pure 
Breed. EachTrait in Pure Breed adds to one Social Trait for tests against other Garou. Bear 
in mind that such a lofty line means you have some mighty big shoes to fill. 
qesources 
You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some solid 
resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, these 
resources are always readily available, and they come to your automatically due to your 
investments, jobs and holdings. 
89 
\ 


Your number of Resources Traits determines the amount of money and capital 
that you can secure. By expending temporary Resources Traits (which return at the 
next game session), you can draw on your regular income, as shown in the accompa- 
nying table. If you expend permanent Resources, you can divest yourself of holdings, 
allowing access to 10 times the amount shown on the table. However, the Storyteller 
always adjudicates the limits of what you can buy. Truly powerful uses of Resources are 
best left to downtimes and moderation between game sessions. 
I 
Resource Allocation 
No Traits: 
One Trait 
Two Traits: 
Three Traits: 
Four Traits: 
Poverty. Income $200. Get roommates. Bus pass. 
Small savings and holdings; income $500. Have 
apartment, cheap means of transportation 
Modest savings and holdings; income $1,000. Have 
condo and motorcycle or modest car. 
Significant savings and holdings; income $3,000.0wn 
house, car. 
Large savings and holdings. Income $10,000. Own large 
house or some small properties, two vehicles, some 
luxuries and unusual items. 
Rich. Income $30,000. Own estate and grounds, 
multiple small properties, several vehicles, arts and 
treasures, luxury items. 
Five Traits: 
W 
I 
Rites 
Rites are a fundamental part of Garou society, a very simple way to connect with 
the mystical powers of Gaia. Each Trait denotes how many rites you know at the 
beginning of the game. With three Traits in Rites, you have knowledge of a level-three 
rite, or a level-one and level-two rites or even three level-one rites. 
Rites can be learned through the teachings of a mentor with a specific rite. 
Though it is not unheard of for a Garou elder to teach a student a very powerful rite 
(as Rank is not a necessary factor of rite progression), it would necessitate a very in- 
depth explanation. 
Cotem 
Whereas other Backgrounds only encompass the personal capabilities of your 
character, Totem pertains to you and your pack, as all of the members pool your Traits 
to purchase a specific totem spirit. 
All totem spirits have a Background Cost rating that your pack must pool 
together in order to ally with it. Regardless of how many points the initial totem costs, 
all beginning totems have a base eight points to divide among Rage, Willpower and 
Gnosis, as well as starting with the Charms of Airt Sense and Reform. 
Standards and practices dictate that totems will bestow their powers to one pack 
member at a time, reserving the capacity of passing this power on to another pack 
member at the Garou’s discretion, assuming they don’t keep it for themselves. After 
the initial cost of a totem has been pooled and spent by the pack members, further 
Background points spent on it increases its strength and abilities, listed below: 
90 


cost 
Power 
One 
One 
One 
One 
Two 
Two 
Three 
Four 
Five 
Per three points to spend on Willpower, Rage, and/or Gnosis 
Totem can speak to the pack without the benefit of the Gift: Spirit 
Speech. 
Totem can always find the pack members. 
Totem is nearly always with the pack members. 
Totem is respected by other spirits. 
Per Charm possessed. 
Per extra pack member who can use a totem’s power in the same 
turn. 
Totem is mystically connected to all pack members, allowing 
communication among them even at great distances (at 
Storyteller’s discretion). 
Totem is feared by agents of the Wyrm (which could mean that 
they run away or that they do their best to kill the pack) 
As optional Traits to help flesh out your character, Merits and Flaws aid in specifying 
certain benefits and hindrances that add dimensions not readily covered by Attributes, 
Abilities and Backgrounds. All Merits and Flaws are organized into specific categories: 
Physical, Socia1,MentalandSupematural. Inorder to purchase Merits youmust spendFree 
Traits; taking a Flaw, conversely, adds burden to your beast but offers extra Traits to spend 
elsewhere. You may take as many as seven Traits each in Merits and Flaws. 
Some Flaws have been designated as appropriate for metis characters to take as 
their metis disfigurement. If you choose to do this, you gain none of the Free Traits the 
Flaw would normally provide. 
Normally you may only purchase Merits and Flaws during character creation, 
however, with an appropriate explanation, you may purchase a new Merit (with 
Experience at double the cost) to overcome an existing Flaw (again, with Experience 
at double the cost). 
Physicul Merits an8 9!um 
@ab Caste (2 G a i t  Merit) 
You are gamey to the palate and revolting on the taste buds; plainly put, you taste 
nasty. Your sweat is oily, though not foul-smelling, and causes victims successfully 
biting you to spend a Willpower Trait or retch uncontrollably for a scene. Since you 
taste bad to everyone, very few lupus or wolves will lick you. 
Fair Clabro (2 Trait Merit) 
Your Glabro form can pass for Homid, although a somewhat large and bulky one, 
and therefore you do not suffer the Negative Social penalty while in this form. 
Lack of Scent (2 Crait Merit) 
Your body produces no defining scent, making it near impossible for you to be 
tracked solely by smell. Anyone attempting to track you in this manner suffers a two- 
Trait penalty to these tests. 
91 


I- )-d!!/- 
Huge Size (4 Trait Merit) 
You are abnormally large, possibly over seven feet tall and weighing over 300 
pounds. You gain an extra Bruised health level. 
Nletamorph (6 Trait Merit) 
Shifting between forms is second nature to the point that you can do it in your 
sleep. Not only are you not required to make a test to change forms, you do not need 
to spend a Rage Trait to instantly shift to a specific form. If knocked unconcious, you 
may make a Simple Test to shift to whatever form you like, instead of your breed form. 
Animal MUS& (I Trait Fflaw) 
No matter how often you bathe, you can never seem to get rid of the animal funk 
that wafts off your body. You are two Traits down in social situations where your smell 
is obvious (at parties, indoors, etc.). Wolves aren’t bothered by the smell. 
Strict Carnioare (1 Trait Flaw) 
“Vegetarian” is a just a foreign term for “lazy hunter”; if it’s not meat, it’s not in 
your diet. You gain no nourishment from vegetables of any kind and subsist solely on 
meat. 
&ab Sight (1 or 3 G a i t  Flaw) 
You don’t see very well for some reason. Large objects are still visible, albeit fuzzy, 
and smaller things are too out of focus for you to clearly identify. You are two Traits 
down on all challenges where careful eyesight is needed. This Flaw is worth one Trait 
if your vision is correctable with glasses or contacts and three Traits if your vision is 
uncorrec table. 
aisfigureb (2 Trait Flaw) 
Either a birth defect or an injury during your lifetime has left you with a scarred 
face. You’re easy to spot or remember. Work with the Storyteller to create an 
appropriate disfigurement. You are down two Traits in any Social Challenges save for 
Intimidation and may never take Social Traits relating to a pleasing appearance 
(Alluring, Gorgeous, Seductive). Metis may take this Flaw as their metis disfigurement. 
One &ye (2 ‘trait Flaw) 
Whether you were born with the defect or injured somehow, you have only one 
functional eye, the other being either missing entirely or adead-white orb. You are two 
Traits down on all challenges involving depth perception, including ranged combat. 
Depending on the nature of your handicap, you may choose to wear an eye patch, or 
you may simply have one blind eye. 
Lame (3 Trait Flaw) 
For some reason, your legs don’t work effectively. This may have been from a 
disease, an injury before your Change or a battle scar. You suffer a two-Trait penalty 
on all movement, no matter what your form. Metis characters may take this Flaw as 
their metis disfigurement. 
92 


Monstrous (3 G a i t  Flaw) 
You’re regularly mistaken for a horror movie extra as you are hideous and 
physically displeasing. As a result, you may not initiate any Social Challenges other 
than those concerning Intimidation, and you may not take any Appearance-related 
Social Traits, such as Alluring or Gorgeous. 
One A r m  (3 G a i t  Fflaw) 
You lost an arm to an accident, a battle scar or even a birth defect. You have 
become used to using your remaining hand for most tasks, so you suffer no penalty for 
an “off” hand. However, you suffer a two-Trait penalty to tasks when two hands would 
be needed. Metis characters may take this Flaw as their metis deformity. 
Permanent Wounb (3 Trait Flaw) 
Perhaps you suffered a deep battle scar, or were severely injured in your homid or 
lupus form and have never quite healed the damage. As a result, you are permanently 
down one Healthy and Bruised health level. 
a e a f  (4 Trait Flaw) 
You are completely deaf - 
you cannot hear sound at all. You can feel the 
vibrations of very loud noises, but nothing more. You automatically fail any challenge 
involving hearing, and you are automatically surprised by anyone approaching you 
from out of your line of sight. As you cannot hear yourself, your howls or speech are 
likely to sound strange to others. 
Mute (4 G a i t  Flaw) 
You cannot speak (or howl) at all, and must either sign or write out your thoughts 
in order to express yourself. Without Linguistics, you might not be able to use sign 
language. This is a very difficult Flaw to play and should be discussed with the 
Storyteller before jumping in. 
W o l f  years (5 G a i t  Flaw) 
You have the lifespan of a wolf, rather than a Garou- 
12 to 20 years at most. The 
aging effects begin at eight years (for a lupus) or within five years after First Change 
(for a homid). 
Whnb (6 Trait Flaw) 
You are robbed of the blessing of vision. You lose all ties where sight is involved 
(such as manual dexterity) and automatically lose all challenges where sight is 
required. 
Mental Merits anb 9laws 
Lobe of Honor ( I  G a i t  Merit) 
A specific code of honor or chivalry guides your actions, separate from your pack 
or sept rules. This code is very personal, shaped by your experiences. You should work 
with your Storyteller tocreate an appropriate code (one withhindrancesand restricted 
activities along with beliefs and passions). You gain a free retest in Mental and Social 
93 


challenges against supernatural persuasion (Mind magic, Dominate, etc.) that would 
force you to violate your code. 
Concentration ( I  G a i t  Merit) 
You shut out all noises and interruptions that would hinder most other people. 
You take no penalty for sudden distractions. 
nerserker (2 Trait Merit) 
You are in total control of your Rage. You may enter frenzy at will, during which 
time you do not suffer any wound penalties; however, you must still make frenzy tests 
when the need arises. 
Calm Heart (3 G a i t  Merit) 
You are naturally calm, and find it easier to resist your Rage. You are one Trait 
up to resist frenzy, no matter how the incident is provoked. 
Iron Will (5 G a i t  Merit) 
You are a rock of stubborn resolve. Very little can sway you once your mind is 
made up. You may resist mind-altering effects (vampiric Dominate, or mind attacks by 
other superntural creatures) by spending a Willpower Trait. This Merit has no effect 
on powers that affect the emotions (such as Presence). 
Mightmares (1 G a i t  Flaw) 
Twisted dreams plague you in your sleep, bleeding over into your daily life. 
Perhaps you watched your pack slaughtered by Banes, or just the incredible stresses of 
being a werewolf make you nightmare-prone. For one reason or another these 
nightmares cause you such unrest that you aren’t sleeping at night and cannot get these 
images out of your head during the waking hours of the daytime. Make a test every 
game session. If you fail, you are down two Traits on every challenge due to exhaustion 
and distraction. 
Phobia ( 1  or 3 G a i t  Flaw) 
You suffer from an irrational fear of an object, creature or circumstance - 
heights, snakes, crowds, confined spaces are a few ideas - 
and do everything in your 
power to avoid it. Your packmates may view you as weak and unfit to lead. When 
confronted with the object of your fear, you are two Traits down to resist frenzy. With 
a one-Trait Flaw, you must make a Willpower Challenge to approach the object in 
question; if you lose, you flee until it is no longer in sight. With the three-Trait Flaw, 
you test for frenzy; should you lose, you fall into fox frenzy until the object is removed 
or you’re put down in some way. 
Soft-Heartea (1 G a i t  Flaw) 
You cannot stand to watch the suffering of others - 
the idea of causing it is 
unthinkable. Perhaps you’re truly compassionate (which some Garou might consider 
a hinderance), or you just dislike the intensity of the situation. If you must watch 
suffering, you must bid an extra Trait in all challenges until the scene has passed. 
94 


pack Mentality (2 T r a i t  Flaw) 
Your identity is intrisically tied in with your pack. You live and die by the words 
of Vince Lombardi: “There is no ‘I’ in “team.” You are so tied to your pack that you have 
trouble making decisions without them. You gain a bonus Trait in challenges where 
two or more of your packmates are actively involved, but you take a one-Trait penalty 
on all challenges when you are alone. In stressful situations, you may even need to 
spend Willpower to act on your own. 
Amnesia (2 T r a i t  9 l a w )  
Your past is a blank slate - 
you recall nothing of your past friends, family or foes. 
Of course, such things have a way ofcoming back to haunt you. Create your character 
normally, but why you have such a set of skills or Attributes is up to the Storyteller. 
You may also choose to take five Traits of unspecified Flaws, letting the Storyteller fill 
in the details later. 
Lunacy (2 T r a i t  Flaw) 
Though all Garou are more susceptible to frenzy during one phase of the moon, 
you have almost no control over your Rage during this moon phase. You are two Traits 
down to avoid frenzy under your auspice moon phase. 
Short Fuse (2 T r a i t  Flaw) 
If Rage is considered the touch of the Wyrm, then the Destroyer has his hand a 
little deeper in your spirit. You lose all ties when making frenzy tests, no matter what 
the circumstances. This Flaw is a dangerous one - 
a Garou who cannot control his 
Rage may well be put down like a mad dog. 
Hatreb (3 G a i t  9laro) 
There is someone or something that you just can’t stand. In fact, nothing would 
make you happier than to see this object rubbed out of existence. The mere mention 
of this thing during conversation makes your hackles rise. When in the presence of the 
object of your hatred, you must spend a Willpower Trait or immediately enter frenzy 
until either you have destroyed this object or it is out of your sight. 
‘territorial 13 ‘trait Flaw) 
You have an area that marks your “turf.” You don’t like leaving, and you sure don’t 
like having strangers tramping on it. When uninvited guests (those without your 
permission to enter) enter your territory, you must test for frenzy; losing means you’ll 
chase whatever is left of them out of your space. 
Social Merits ana Haws 
Favor ( I  or 3 T r a i t  M e r i t )  
An elder owes you a debt of gratitude for a deed you performed at one time or 
another. Garou society is very strict about repaying debts, for making good on debts 
is always good for Renown. OneTrait indicates that you are owed a minor boon, where 
three Traits indicate a major boon. Work with the Storyteller to come up with the 
specific details of the boon). 
95 


Y 
Human Tribal Status (2 or 4 Trait Merit) 
You maintain an active part in the human community you came from, even 
attaining a position of some standing, such as council elder or healer. At two Traits, 
you might act as shamanic healer for your Kinfolk or perhaps you’re the go-between 
for them and the Garou while four Traits means you hold a seat on a tribal council or 
perhaps act as spokesman for your group to the human community at large. You must 
come from either a Native American or distinctly ethnic community to take this 
Merit. Lupus and metis characters may not take this Merit. 
&nemy (1 to 5 G a i t  Flaw) 
There is someone or something out to get you. The value of this Flaw depends on 
the power of your enemy. An enemy with an equal level of power to yours is worth one 
Trait, where a pack of Black Spiral Dancers or a coterie of vampires would be worth 
five Traits. Work with your Storyteller to determine who your enemy is and how you 
became enemies in the first place. 
mark Secret ( 1  Trait  flaw) 
Some incident in your past haunts you and you strive to cover it up - 
maybe you 
murdered an elder, or you had extensive dealings with a vampire. Whatever it is, 
knowledge of this could get you branded as a pariah in the Garou Nation. You can 
cover it for now, but someday, the piper will need paying. 
Shy (1 Trait Flaw) 
You suffer a social stigma, and you just dislike the limelight. You do whatever you 
can do not be the focus of attention. When you are at the center of attention, you must 
bid an extra Trait to initiate challenges. 
Persistent Parents (2 Trait Flaw) 
When you became a Garou, you likely disappeared from your old life. Your 
parents refuse to let your memory lie and started searching for you. Perhaps they’ve 
even hired private detectives to hunt for you. For some reason, you simply can’t come 
clean with your parents - 
perhaps your mother is employed by Pentex, or they have 
strange religious beliefs that would mandate killing you to “save” you. 
Hunteb (3 G a i t  Flaw) 
A very powerful hunter is tracking you, believing you’re a rabid animal who’s a 
threat to all humanity. He has the skills and resources enough to make your life 
“interesting” (and to snuff it out, if you aren’tcareful), and will keep you watching over 
your shoulder. Your friends, family, allies and associates are also in peril should this 
hunter decide to turn an eye their way. Worse, your hunter is immune to the Delirium. 
Keep one eye on the exits .... 
W a r 3  (3 G a i t  Flaw) 
You are devoted to the protection of a human. Perhaps she’s Kinfolk, or one of the 
few friends you’ve hung onto since your Change. You may describe your Ward, but the 
Storyteller will actually create her. Such people are often targeted by your enemies, or 
just get caught up in the action too well. If she is Kinfolk, you must have a particularly 
special relationship with her (spouse, lover, child, longtime friend, sibling, etc.). 
’ 
96 


Inept (5 Trait Flaw) 
[g 
You are incompetent and unskilled. Until you buy off this Flaw, you may not buy 
your Abilities or Influences above one Trait. 
Supernatural Merits ana Flaws 
Ancestral Mentor (1 Trait Merit) 
A friend or relative from your past, perhaps a friend of an ancestor, guides you on 
your path. The Storyteller decides the exact powers. If it really exerts itself, it can 
materialize in the real world, however it usually contents itself to providing advice and 
company. 
True Love (1 Trait Merit) 
Even with all of the pain and suffering you see on a daily basis, you have found 
a true love that gives you strength topersevere. When the need arises you gain an extra 
Willpower Trait, known as a True Love Trait once per session. (These Traits are not 
cumulative and cannot be saved for use at a later date). However, your True Love may 
well need rescuing or help from time to time. 
Medium (2 Trait Merit) 
You do, in fact, hear dead people from across the Shroud. Ghosts follow you 
wherever you go and you can feel their presence at all times. So long as you are willing 
to barter with them, these Restless Dead will communicate with you for favors and 
information. 
Moon-Bound (2 Trait Merit) 
You share a special tie to your auspice and benefit even more than usual when it 
is in its moon phase. When your moon is in the waxing phase, you receive a bonusTrait 
to all ties, though you are down one Trait during its waning phase (either determined 
by the Storyteller or the real world moon). 
Luck (3 Trait Merit) 
Maybe Gaia has someone looking after you; maybe you’re just that dam lucky. 
Whatever it is, you can make one retest per session on a failed challenge by bidding 
the Trait Lucky. The results of the second challenge always stand. 
Natural Channel (3 G a i t  Merit) 
For some reason, you find it easier to step sideways. You gain one free retest per 
session on stepping sideways. Further, spirits react more favorably to you because 
you’re so attuned to the Umbra. It doesn’t mean you can get away with murder, but the 
spirits are less likely to jump you the minute you step into the Umbra and more inclined 
to listen to you. 
Supernatural Companion (3 Trait Merit) 
You have a friend who’s not like the other kids - 
he happens to be a vampire, 
a wraith, achangelingorsomeother supernaturalcreature. Youcancallonhimfor aid, 
just as he will call on you (you are friends, right?). However, neither your sept nor his 
91 


, 
>’ elders will appreciate this if you’re found out (and slumming with a Leech is very bad 
news), and you can expect punishment if you’re caught. The Storyteller will create 
your friend. 
Resistant to Wyrm &manations (6 Trait Merit) 
Gaia grants you a hardiness against contaminations from the Wyrm. You get a 
free retest in challenges where Wyrm-taint is involved. This Merit also protects you 
from balefire, radiation and possession by Banes. It is very likely that you will be thrust 
to the frontlines, and otherwise expected to use your Gift “for the good of Gaia.” Don’t 
let the Bane bugs bite. 
Silver Tolerance (7 Trait Merit) 
Gaia has blessed you with the immunity to the inherent bane of Garou existence. 
Although the damage from silver weapons is still aggravated, you may test and, on a 
win or tie, have the ability to soak it with your regenerative facilities. Also, it takes a 
pair of silver items carried to cause you to lose one Gnosis. 
True Faith (7 Trait Merit) 
You have a deep-seated faith and love for Gaia, God, Allah, the Buddha or 
whatever you consider the Almighty. You begin the game with one Trait of Faith 
(whichrangesfrom 1-lO).YourFaithmay also have supernaturaleffects (at Storyteller 
discretion), which vary from person to person, although you may use it to repel 
vampires by declaring, “In the name of. ..” and brandishing a holy symbol, making a 
Social Challenge against the vampire’s Willpower. With success, the vampire must 
flee, and even if you lose, the vampire cannot approach closer than 10 feet unless he 
overbids you in a contest of Willpower. 
True Faith is a rarity in this day and age; obviously you should have a very good 
explanation for this. No one may start the game with more than one Trait of Faith, and 
the Storyteller will award more Faith based on appropriate actions. For more about 
Faith, see Laws of the Hunt. 
aanneb Transformation (1 to 6 Trait Flaw) 
Something prevents you from changing, except to your breed form. You must 
spend a Willpower Trait and make a Willpower Challenge to force the change when 
the restricting circumstance is near. For one Trait, it might be soothing music; at two 
Traits, in the presence of wolfsbane. Four Traits might be when silver is present, or for 
five Traits, you cannot shift during the day. Work with your Storyteller to determine 
the circumstance and its worth. 
Curse8 (1 to 5 Trait Flaw) 
You are afflicted by a powerful curse. The number of Traits determines the 
strength and tenacity of the curse. A one-Trait curse might cause you to bump into 
large objects like tables and chairs; a three-Trait curse could cause your guns to jam in 
the middle of a firefight; a five-Trait curse can be powerful enough to one day prove 
your undoing. The exact effects, as well as ways to overcome it, are up to the 
Storyteller. 
98 


Forceb Transformation ( 1  t o  4 Trait Flaw) 
Something causes you to shift forms involuntarily. You must spend a Willpower 
Trait in order to prevent this unwanted transformation. Work with your Storyteller 
to decide the number of Traits and specific trigger for this transformation. One Trait 
may cause you to shift from homid to Glabro form when you are sexually aroused; three 
Traits might force you to shift from lupus to Hispo form when you are sensing for the 
Wyrm; five Traits might cause you to shift from any form to a form other than Crinos 
when you enter frenzy. The forced transformation should always be inconveniencing 
at the very least. 
M a r k  of the @rebator (2 Trait Flaw) 
Your nature marks you among animals. Herbivores shy from you, and other 
predatorsviewyouasapotentialthreat. Youmay neverpurchase the Ability AnimalKen. 
Sign of the Wolf (2 Trait Flaw) 
Your Homid form bears a number of the traditional hallmarks of a werewolf. Your 
eyebrows grow together, you have hair in your palms, your second and third fingers are the 
same length, and you may even display a pentagram in your palm during your auspice phase 
of the moon. To those hunters who are alert to such things, you stand out like a neon sign. 
Haunteb (3 G u i t  Fflaru) 
A malicious ghost, possibly a felled foe or an enemy of an ancestor has decided 
to torment you from beyond the grave. Though it is usually limited to ghostly 
manifestations, chilling death screams and the occasional shove, it does its best to 
make your life difficult. The Storyteller should create the ghost. 
daierceb Veil (3 Trait Flaw) 
For some reason, your Crinos form doesn’t trigger the Delirium in normal 
humans. This can be extremely dangerous, as werewolf-hunters are unlikely to be 
startled by you and might even use it to track you. 
D a r k  Fate (5 Trait Flaw) 
Your life will end very badly, and your fate is sealed. Worse yet, you have dreams 
and premonitions ofyour futuredemiseor eternal torment. The Storyteller determines 
a particular fate, which will inevitably strike you down. Furthermore, in any game 
session the Storyteller deems appropriate, you may receive a vision of your impending 
suffering. You must spend a Willpower Trait to shake off the experience, or else be one 
Trait down on all challenges from the rest of the session. This Flaw should only be 
taken with Storyteller permission, as it is difficult to play. 
Taint of Corruption (7 Trait Flaw) 
Youeither had arun-inwithminions of the Wyrm or are acorrupt soul, but either 
way you stink of the Wyrm. You register as a Wyrm-creature when someone invokes 
the Gift: Sense Wyrm and are never trusted around cubs or Kinfolk. You can hear the 
Corruptor’s honeyed words in your dreams, beckoning you to join with it. This Flaw 
can be very debilitating as you start the game at a major disadvantage. Your only hope 
mightbeyourpack (ifit willstillstand by you). Seeking torid yourselfofthecorruption 
would be a major undertaking, but one that would inspire some of the greatest tales. 
99 


I n fl uence 
Society builds institutions. As cities are raised, they form gatherings of expertise 
that are manipulated by people in their midst. If you have Influence, you can sway the 
direction of some areas of mundane society. Your Influence can be used to strike 
indirectly at your foes while protecting your own assets, or to gain information and 
special resources. 
Influence comes in many different areas. You must allocate Traits separately to 
each Influence; thus, if you have Legal x 4, you could still have Police x 3 independently 
but you would have to spend the Traits for each. 
You cannot manage more influence than the sum of your permanent Physical, 
Social and Mental Traits combined. This limit counts against all of your total 
Influence -your 
combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, there is only so 
much you can do in a day. 
When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary Influence Traits. The tables 
for Influence areas detail the sort of things you can do with a specific number ofTraits. 
Performing an action requires a number of Traits equal to the level of the action; you 
must use three Traits to perform an action listed at the third level of the Influence 
chart, for instance. Thus, with high levels of Influence, you can perform many small 
actions, or a few significant ones. 
Certain levels of Influence gift you with items, money or aides. Unlike the 
Resources Background, money and equipment garnered with Influence does not come 
automatically each month. If you want a steady income from Influence, you must 
direct your Influence in that direction continually, and this income does not come 
with any associated trappings of wealth (you’d have to buy a house and car separately, 
for instance). Aides garnered with Influence generally help only for one specific task, 
and they usually only have one level of Ability in their area of skill - 
for more 
competent and readily available help, take the Allies Background. 
Most cities have only a set amount of Influence in various areas. For instance, San 
Diego has a great deal of Transportation Influence because it is a hub of travel while 
New York City would have a lot of Finance and High Society Influence. A Rust-Belt city 
where manufacturing and heavy industry has all but disappeared would have little to 
no Indwtq Influence. 
Storytellers should map out the total amount of each type of Influence to be had 
in the city. Once all of the Influence of a given type is used up, the only way to get more 
is to use Influence to grow that area of society (making new projects or sponsoring 
investment), to destroy someone else’s Influence and thus free up those resources or 
to acquire an adversary’s Influence in an area. Also, each city may have different 
reflections on the Influences listed here. A city with a thriving independent film 
community is going to have a different picture of Media or High Society than a city 
where the arts are being literally starved out due to budget cuts. 
Each area of Influence has its own description. Elder Garou, especially those of 
the Bone Gnawer and Glass Walker tribes, may possess truly far-reaching Influence, 
giving them the power to exert control beyond the levels included here. 
d u  r eaucr acy 
You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing with 
social programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and regulations 
or twist bureaucratic regimentation to your advantage. Bureaucracy is useful in 
IO0 


3 
operating or shutting down businesses, faking or acquiring permits and identification 
papers and manipulating public utilities and facilities. Government clerks at the city 
and county level, utility workers, road crews, surveyors and other civil servants are 
potential contacts or allies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license 
Disconnect a single small residence’s utilities 
Close a small road or park 
Get public aide ($250) 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card 
Close a public school for a single day 
Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Initiate a phone tap 
Fake land deeds 
Initiate a department-wide investigation 
Start, stop or alter a city-wide program or policy 
Shut down a big business on a violation 
Rezone areas 
Obliterate records of a person on a city or county level 
Church 
Though the modem church has arguably less control over temporal society than 
it did in the Middle Ages, its policies still exert considerable influence over the 
direction of politics and communities. Knowing the appropriate people allows insight 
into many mainstream religions, such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, 
Shinto or Buddhism (fringe or alternative groups, such as Scientology, are considered 
Occult). When you exercise Church Influence, you can change religious policy, affect 
the assignment or clergy and access a variety of lore and resources. Contacts and allies 
affected by Church Influence would include ministers, priests, bishops, Church- 
sponsored witch-hunters, holy orders and various attendees and assistants. 
cost 
Effect 
3 
Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local area 
Pass as a member of the clergy 
Peruse general church records (baptism, marriage, burial, etc.) 
Identify higher church members 
Track regular church members 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church 
Find the average church-associated hunter 
Dip into the collection plate ($250) 
Access private information and archives of a church 
Discredit or suspend high-level church members 
Manipulate regional branches of the church 
Organize major protests 
Access ancient church lore and knowledge 


Manipulating markets, stock reports and investments are a hobby of many 
people, especially those who use their knowledge to keep hidden wealth. Though your 
actual available money is a function of your Resources, you can use Finance to start or 
smother businesses, crush or support banking institutions and alter credit records. 
Clearly, such power over money is not to be trifled with - 
fortunes are made and 
destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, stockbrokers, bank tellers, yes-men, 
financiers and loan agents are found among such work. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about major transactions and financial events 
Raise capital ($1,000) 
Learn about general economic trends 
Learn real motivations for many financial actions of others 
5 
Health 
Trace an unsecured small account 
Raise capital to purchase a small business (single, small store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a single large 
store or service) 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some credit rating 
alterations) 
Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect of city-wide banking (shut off ATMs, arrange 
a bank “holiday”) 
Ruin a large business 
Purchase a major company 
It might seem odd that Garou, who can heal all but the most catastrophic injuries 
in a few hours, would need Health Influence, but for repairing the Veil or to help human 
Kinfolk this resource can be invaluable. You might also acquire a couple of veterinar- 
ians to assist with lupus Garou or Kinfolk. Most medical research and development 
falls under the purview of Health Influence. Coroners, doctors, lab workers, therapists, 
pharmacists and specialists are just a few of the folks found in this field. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Access to a person’s health records 
Fake vaccination records and the like 
Use public functions of health centers at your leisure 
Access some medical research records 
Have a minor lab work done 
Get a copy of a coroner’s report 
Instigate minor quarantines 
3 
Corrupt results of tests or inspections 
Alter medical records 
4 
Completely rewrite medical records 
Abuse grants for personal use ($250) 
Have minor medical research performed on a subject 
2 
102 


Institute 1arge.scale quarantines 
[$ 
Shut down businesses for “health code violations” 
Have special research projects performed 
Have people institutionalized or released 
5 
High Society 
The glitterati at the top of society move in circles of wealth and elegance. Though 
many Garou do not find such positions appealing, there is the rare exception that 
indulges in the passions of the famous and wealthy. Access to famous actors, celebrities 
and the elite rich grants a certain sway over fashion trends. A modicum of High Society 
Influence turns a werewolf into a debonair darling of the most exclusive social circles. 
Among these circles, one finds dilettantes, artists of almost any stripe, old-money 
families, models, rocks stars, sports figures and jetsetters. 
cost 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Effect 
Learn what is trendy 
Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows 
Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before they are made 
public 
Track most celebrities and luminaries 
Be a local voice in the entertainment field 
“Borrow” idle cash from rich friends ($1000) 
Crush promising careers 
Hobnob well above your station 
Minor celebrity status 
Get a brief appearance on a talk show that’s not about to be 
cancelled 
Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh gathering 
fnbustry 
The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. 
Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, churning out 
the staples of everyday living. Control over Industry Influence sways the formation of 
unions, the movements of work projects, locations for factories and the product of 
manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, engineers, construction workers, 
manual laborers and all manner of blue-collar workers exist among these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Have minor projects performed 
Learn about industrial projects and movements 
Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash ($500) 
Arrange small accidents or sabotage 
Appropriate machinery for a short time 
Close down a small plant 
Revitalize a small plant 
3 
Organize minor strikes 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
103 


This Influence, like many others, is not directly related to a Garou’s daily life, 
unless you are a Glass Walker or Bone Gnawer. Even the smallest bit of legalese can 
keep a werewolf out of trouble in mortal society, though, and there’s no arguing Legal’s 
benefits for repairing the Veil. Of course, a bit of Legal Influence is also excellent for 
harassing an enemy’s assets, too. Such Influence ranges from law schools and firms, to 
lawyers, judges, DAs, clerks and public defenders. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charge 
Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and trusts, court dates) 
Access public or court funds ($250) 
Get representation in most court cases 
Tie up court cases 
Have most legal charges dropped 
Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations 
Have deportation proceedings held against someone 
3 
4 
Issue subpoenas 
5 
Mebia 
Directing media attention away from werewolf activities, save for those that 
would preserve forests and other natural habitats, is a key component of the Veil. 
Putting specific emphasis on certain events can place an enemy in an uncomfortable 
spotlight or discredit a rival. With Media, you can crush or alter news stories, control 
the operations of news stations and reporters and sway public opinion, with DJs, 
editors of all varieties, reporters, camera operators, photographers and broadcasters at 
your disposal. At Storyteller discretion, Media may also allow access to the more 
technical areas of television, radio or movies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about breaking stories early 
Submit small articles (within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports 
Get hold of investigative reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports 
Get project funding and waste it ($250) 
Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
Kill small local articles or reports completely 
Occult 
The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and 
unusual factions. Obviously, a Garou is aware that there are strange things out there 
by dint of his very existence (after all, if werewolves exist...), but hard knowledge of 
such things is a function of Abilities. By using Occult Influence, you can dig up 
104 


information to improve your knowledge, get inside the occult community and find rare 
components for rituals. Cult leaders, alternative religious groups, charlatans, occult- 
ists, New Agers and a few more dangerous elements can be found here. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Contact a make use of common occult groups and their practices 
Know some of the more visible occult figures 
2 
3 
Know and contact some of the more obscure occult figures 
Access resources for most rituals and rites 
Know the general vicinity of certain supernatural entities and 
(possibly) contact them 
Access vital or rare material components 
Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($250) 
Access occult tomes and writings 
Research a Basic rite 
4 
Research an Intermediate rite 
5 
Unearth Advanced rites 
Police 
“To protect and serve” is the motto of the police, but these days, Garou and 
mortals alike may have cause to wonder who is being protected and served. That said, 
Police Influence can be very handy to assist with the Veil, to protect one’s holdings or 
to raid the assets of another. After all, attitude won’t save the Glass Walker whose 
townhouse is the target of a police raid. Police of all ranks, detectives, clerical staff, 
dispatchers, prison guards, special divisions (such as SWAT or homicide) and local 
highway patrol make up these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn police procedures 
Hear police information and rumors 
Avoid traffic tickets 
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) 
Get “inside information” 
Get copies of an investigation report 
2 
Have license plates checked 
5 
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone 
Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband 
Have some serious charges dropped 
Start an investigation 
Get money, either from the evidence room or as an appropriation 
Institute major investigations 
Arrange setups 
Instigate bureau investigations 
Have officers fired 
($1000) 
10s 


L-’ 
I 
Garou don’t do well in deals with bloodsucking leeches; they tend not to work 
with vampires, either. Altering party platforms, controlling local elections, changing 
appointed offices and calling in favors all falls under the purview of Political Influence. 
Well-timed blackmail, bribery, spin doctoring or any sundry tricks are stock in trade 
on both sides of this fence. Some of the likely contacts and allies include pollsters, 
lobbyists, activists, party members, spin doctors and politicians from rural zoning 
committees to the mayors of major cities or Congressional representatives. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Minor lobbying 
Identify real platforms of politicians and parties 
Be “in the know” 
Gamer inside information on process, laws and the like 
Use a slush fund or fundraiser ($1000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, renovations, small 
construction) 
Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office 
Enact encompassing legislation 
2 
Meet small-time politicians 
3 
4 
Enact minor legislation 
5 
Street 
Ignored and often spat on by their “betters,” those in the dark alleys and slums 
have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who might come 
calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections on the underside 
of the city to find the homeless, gang members of all sorts, street buskers, petty 
criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums or barrios and fringe elements of so-called 
“deviant” cultures. 
cost 
Effect 
Open an ear for the word on the street 
Identify most gangs and know their turfs and habits 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of the city 
Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life 
Access small-time contraband 
Get insight into other areas of Influence 
3 
4 
5 
Arrange some services from street people or gangs 
Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons 
Mobilize groups of homeless 
Panhandle or hold a “collection” ($250) 
Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG 
Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations 
Control a single medium-sized gang 
Arrange impressive protests by street people 
106 


Transportation 
Most Garou have very little need for any sort of transportation other than their 
own two feet or four paws. However, when traveling across metropolises and other 
highly populated areas where Leeches have control, Transportation can mean the 
difference between a major skirmish and riding through town unmolested. Getting 
access to special supplies and services can also take measure of Transportation. Most all 
of these things can be controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, harbors, railroads, 
airports, taxis, border guards, pilots and untold hundreds. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know what goes where, when and why 
Travel locally, quickly and freely 
Track an unwary target if he uses public transportation 
Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from mundane 
threats (robbery, terrorism, hunters, etc.) 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel 
Avoid most supernaturaldangers when traveling (such as Leeches) 
Shut down one form of transportation (bus lines, ships, planes, 
trains, etc.) temporarily 
Route money your way ($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel 
Smuggle with impunity 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Unberworlb 
The world of crime offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle leaders. 
Guns, money, drugs and vice -such 
delicious pastimes can be led by anyone talented 
or simply vicious enough to take them. Underworld Influence lets you call on such 
favors for all manner of illegal dealings, and the Mafia, La Cosa Nostra, and drug 
dealers, bookies, Yakuza, tongs, hit men, fences and criminal gangs fill its ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, petty 
gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen cars 
Hire muscle to rough someone up 
3 
4 
5 
University 
Fence stolen loot 
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG 
Arrange a minor “hit” 
Meet someone in “the Family” 
Make white-collar crime connections 
Arrange gangland assassinations 
Hire a demolition man or firebug 
Supply local drug needs 
Institutions of learning and research are the purview of the University Influence. 
Access to the halls of learning can help you with any number of resources, from ancient 


languages to research assistance to many impressionable young minds. School boards, 
students from kindergarten through college, graduate students, professors, teachers, 
deans, Greek orders and a variety of staff fill the ivy-covered halls. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know layout and policy of local schools 
Have access to low-level university resources 
Get records up to the high school level 
Know a contract or two with useful knowledge or Abilities 
2 
3 
Have minor access to facilities 
Fake high school records 
Obtain college records 
Call in faculty favors 
Cancel a class 
Fix grades 
Discredit a student 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
Organize student protests and rallies 
Discredit faculty members 
All Garou have Rage, an inner beast that is slave to everything from the moon 
phases to annoying individuals. It encompasses the inherent feral cunning and ferocity 
that compels werewolves, as well as savage bloodlust and mindless carnage. Rage is 
both a blessing and a curse, as it aides Garou in shifting to their warrior forms and 
bestows other supernatural gifts while retaining its banelike existence that throws 
them into fits of wild and oftentimes uncontrollable emotion. 
RageTraitsdonothave adjectives. RathereachTraitsimplyrepresents the amount 
of rage within a werewolf. You have both permanent Rage - 
the total number of Rage 
you possess - 
and temporary Rage Traits, which you gain and lose throughout a story. 
Rage Traits can be represented with cards. When a character gains Rage Traits 
by moon phase or other acceptable means, ask a Narrator or Storyteller for a card. 
Likewise when Rage Traits are spent, give the card to a Narrator or Storyteller. 
Your beginning Rage Trait total is determined by your auspice. The only way to 
increase this total is by purchasing them with Free Traits or gaining them temporarily 
when you are in an especially infuriating situation. 
Rage replenishes when the moon phase is in your auspice, which not only refills 
completely but also often has adverse effects (see below). Rage Traits must be spent 
at the beginning of a turn in the declaration stage. 
You can expend Rage Traits for a variety of functions: 
You can spend Rage to gain extra actions in a turn; however, you cannot spend 
more Rage Traits in a turn than half of your Physical Traits. 
Spend one Rage Trait to change instantly to any form you desire, without the 
standard test to shift forms. 
When you fall below the Incapacitated health level, you may opt to spend a 
Rage Trait and make a Rage Challenge with the Storyteller. If you succeed, you regain 
health levels up to Wounded. This effect may only be attempted once in a scene. 


Returning from near death doesn’t come cheap, though. Every time you attempt 
- 
to cheat death in this manner, you suffer a battle scar (see page 191). 
Regaining q a g e  
As noted earlier, there are many ways in which you can gain Rage. The means 
often illustrate how Rage is both curse and blessing. 
The first time you see the moon at night, the Beast inside stirs and Rage floods 
back into you. Under a new moon, you get back one Trait; under a crescent moon, two 
Traits; under a half moon, three Traits; and under a full moon you gain four Traits. But 
if the moon phase corresponds with your auspice, you regain all of your Rage Traits. 
This phenomenon occurs only with the first sighting of the moon each night. 
When you lose a test in a particularly stressful situation, such as during life-or- 
death situations, the Storyteller may allow you to gain a Rage Trait to reflect your 
building frustration and near-frenzied state. 
The Storyteller may award you a Rage Trait when you fall into a humiliating 
situation, such as an inferior opponent knocking you down. 
Should you spend your last Rage Trait, you automatically revert back to your 
breed form as your inner beast has temporarily lost its fire and ability to take your 
warrior form. This is known as “losing the wolf,” and you may not change forms until 
you regain at least one Trait of Rage. 
Gnosis 
Gnosis represents the spiritual connection between Gaia and Her Garou chil- 
dren. It grants them entry to the spirit realm of the Umbra, opens them to the spirits 
in nature and helps fuel their powerful Gifts. 
Gnosis Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have permanent 
Gnosis - your normal limit of Gnosis Traits - and temporary Gnosis, your 
expendable Traits. Without Gnosis, you would be cut off from Gaia’s spiritual wisdoms 
and caresses -you 
could not travel into the Umbra or access many Gifts and rites. At 
the other extreme, with too many Gnosis Traits, you sometimes find the worlds 
blurring and may have trouble distinguishing one side of the Gauntlet from the other. 
Just as Rage Traits are spent to affect physical activity, Gnosis is used to affect 
more spiritual matters. 
You cannot spend Rage and Gnosis Traits in the same turn, except when 
certain Gifts mandate for them to be spent as part of a requisite for the power. These 
two forces are very powerful on their own and would overwhelm a Garou’s spirit and 
body with the clash. For example, a werewolf cannot spend Rage for multiple actions 
and activate a fetish in the same turn. 
Each silver object or irem containing silver that you carry on your person 
reduces your effective Gnosis rating by one Trait per silver item carried. This effect is 
temporary and will dissipate one day after the silver items are discarded, where you will 
regain any lost Gnosis Traits 
Many of the Gifts call for a varying number of Gnosis Trait expenditures. 
Gnosis is used to attune or activate a Garou’s fetish. 
Instead of winning a challenge to step sideways, you may choose to circumvent 
this requirement and spend a GnosisTrait. Now you may step sideways into theumbra 
automatically without any possibility of failure. 
109 


Regaining (inosis 
y 
You can regain Gnosis in one of a number of ways: 
Spend 10 minutes out of game in meditation, reflecting the time you take to 
renew your connections to Gaia (which doesn’t mean sitting under a tree and picking 
your teeth). Then you may spend one of your Meditation Ability Traits or Mental Traits 
to recover one Gnosis Trait. You must already possess the Meditation Ability in order 
to perform this feat. 
You may participate in the Sacred Hunt, one of the most frequently performed 
activities at Garou moots. It is a ritual performed for the good of the people and the 
caem, in which an Engling spirit is the chosen prey, summoned and then hunted down. 
This ritual can be undertaken in either the Umbra or on Earth. After the prey has been 
caught and “killed,” all werewolves who take part in the hunt give thanks to the spirit 
for the gift of its life. Upon a successful hunt, all participating Garou completely 
replenish their Gnosis pools. 
There are certain Rites and Fetish powers that can lend temporary Gnosis to 
your pool. 
Willpower 
Willpower Traits measure the strength of your character’s resolve and sense of 
self. By exerting your Willpower, you can withstand otherwise untenable conditions 
or renew your commitment to a course of action. 
Willpower Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have permanent 
Willpower (your normal limit of Willpower Traits) and temporary Willpower, (your 
expendable Traits). Your tribe determines your starting permanent and temporary 
Willpower. When you expend temporary Willpower Traits or raise your permanent 
Willpower, you regain temporary Traits at a rate of one per game session (though your 
Storyteller may vary this pace to suit the needs of her game or simplify book-keeping). 
Expending a Willpower Trait allows for one of any number of effects, generally 
to keep self-determination and to empower difficult or complex actions. Using 
Willpower is almost always a reflective action and does not count as your tum. 
A Willpower Trait can be spent to refresh all of your lost Traits in one Attribute 
category - 
Physical, Social or Mental. You may do so once per category per game 
session. 
Expenditure of a Willpower Trait allows you to gain a retest when defending 
against a Mental or Social Challenge. Trait loss works as normal for such retests. 
Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for which you 
lack an appropriate Ability. Thus, you can make a test even if you would normally 
require a specific Ability that you don’t have or have used up. 
You can spend a Willpower Trait to try to control yourself briefly while in 
frenzy. You are able to act normally for one turn when you spend a Willpower in this 
fashion, though you otherwise keep all the other stipulations of frenzy - 
ignoring 
wound penalties and so on. You do not actually regain control so much as you fight 
mightily to direct yourselffor a few moments in the face of overwhelming rage or terror; 
roleplay your actions appropriately. 
You can expend a Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to and 
including Incapacitated, for the duration of a full turn. 
Certain Gifts require the use of Willpower. 
110 


At Storyteller discretion, you may temporarily suppress a derangement by 
expending a Willpower Trait. 
Sample Character Creation 
Cliff is tired of tabletop games and decides to try a local live-action venue. He 
settles on an Apocalypse chronicle and e-mails the Storytellers with his character 
ideas. At the next coffeehouse, Cliff sitsdown with one ofthe Storytellers, Wendi, and 
makes a character. 
Step One: Concept 
Cliff starts by thinking about what sort of person his Garou is, wanting a strong, 
wiry warrior of Gaia but one who is knowledgeable enough to know when to pick a 
fight and when to back down. The character is less interested in the politics and 
technology of mortal society and more concerned with adequately defending his pack. 
Taking this a step further, Cliff decides that his character is a quiet Native American 
man from Ohio raised on a Cree tribal reservation - 
a silent yet solid warrior of Gaia 
dedicated to battling the Wyrm in all of its twisted and visceral forms. 
Because the character is ofNative American stock, Cliff can choose to be one of 
the tribes of Pure Ones, either the crafty Uktena or the fierce Wendigo. Cliff decides 
to move away from the more popular timber wolves and settles for the Uktena. He 
chooses Alpha for his Nature because he plans to try to earn a position of leadership 
in the future and selects Traditionalist for his Demeanor to reflect his desire to staunch 
any change in Garou society that might result in Wyrm corruption. 
Cliff opts for a Homid breed, as the character was born into mortal society rather 
thana wolf in the wild. The Ahroun auspice seems appropriate for afuture warrior, one 
that is strong in battle yet solid in mind as well (something that Wendi looks forward 
to seeing Cliff roleplay, possibly breaking with traditional stereotypes). Lastly, Cliff 
names hischaracter: Thomas JonahSampson, more usuallycal1edT.J. Wendifinds the 
overall concept to be solid and approves it. 
Stage Two: Attributes 
Now Wendi explains to Cliff that he has to prioritize T.J.’s Attribute categories 
in order to determine his strengths and weaknesses. Cliff chooses Physical as T.J.’s 
Primary Trait category, Social as his secondary and Mental as tertiary. Cliff reasons 
that T.J. has been working manual labor and practicing native arts of war (Physical), 
that he is quite handsome and a charismatic soul (Social), but lacks the wisdom and 
worldliness that a true leader requires (Mental). 
Having prioritized the categories, Cliff must allocate individual Traits for each 
Attribute category, beginning with seven Physical Traits. He chooses Brawny, Brutal, 
Dexterous, Quick, Quick, Stalwart and Tough. That makes T.J. a very able brawler when 
the need arises - 
a prime requisite for a future alpha. Next is Social, with five Traits, 
and Cliff picks Charismatic, Empathetic, Gorgeous, Intimidating and Magnetic, reflecting 
his friendly disposition and keen magnetism. Lastly comes Mental, with only three 
Traits. Cliff takes Alert, Determined and Knowledgeable - 
T.J. has the basic trappings 
of a leader, but needs more mental fortitude and worldliness that will come with his 
experiences as Garou. 
111 


T+mm?-///- 
Step Three: Abvantages 
1, 
Now that Cliff has T.J.’s Attributes all banged out, Wendi points him to the 
section on Abilities. Cliff notices many that he would like to take, but sticks with the 
most fitting to T.J.’s background: Brawl and Melee. Then he takes another Melee and 
Occult representing his above-average skill with hand-to-hand weapons and his 
mystical knowledge within his Cree heritage. He finishes with Athletics, to reflect that 
he was doing more through his youth than playing video games. Though his choices 
are not as diverse as Cliff would like for T.J., Wendi points out that this reflects his lack 
of worldliness that will come with experience and age. 
Gifts arenext; this isaplace that Cliff points out to Wendi thatT.1. is veryfocused 
on warrior powers. As a homid Ahroun Uktena, T.J. begins the game with three Basic 
Gifts. After looking over the choices available to him, Cliff selects one level from each 
of his breed, auspice and tribe: Master of Fire (Homid), Razor Claws (Ahroun) and 
Shroud (Uktena). He reasons that these choices are a legacy of his warrior upbringing, 
reflecting his narrow scope of education and need for greater experiences to round out 
his life. 
Wendi notes that Cliff has five levels of Backgrounds to spend on T.J. Cliff takes 
extra time to think on this part - 
Cliff decides that T.J. is the son of a chief and the 
descendent of chiefs. To reflect this, he takes one level ofAncestors, one level of Fetish 
and three levels of Pure Breed. Wendi pauses things and asks about the story behind 
the level of Fetish. Cliff tells her that the fetish is a weapon that was passed down from 
his ancestors to his grandfather, his father and recently to him. Wendi explains that 
weapon fetishes are very rare and not available to new characters. Cliff has three 
options - 
choose another fetish, choose another Background or choose to sock the 
point away to be put toward a weapon later on. Cliff decides he wants the instant 
gratification, and chooses a different Fetish - 
this is a medicine bag that belonged to 
a several-greats grandfather (who was also Garou), and contains several small things, 
like a shard of an iron pot, a cowrie shell and a small string of wampum. Wendi 
approves this, and makes a note to herself that she will sit down with the other 
Storytellers to determine what exactly the bag can do. 
Now Cliff needs to note T.J.’s Renown. Wendi suggests that Cliff might find it 
more interesting to come in as a cub, learning about Garou society along with T.J., 
since he’s new to live-action roleplaying and Apocalypse. Cliff agrees, deciding that 
T.J. had his First Change around 20, which is a little older than usual for most Garou. 
T.J.’s beginning Renown will be awarded to him when he completes his Rite of 
Passage. 
Step Four: Finishing Couches 
Cliff must now record T.J.’s starting Gnosis, Rage and Willpower. Looking at the 
breed section on page 67 and sees that homid Garou begin the game with one Gnosis 
Trait. He then skips over to the auspice section and notes that the Ahroun begin the 
game with five Rage Traits. Finally he flips to the page with his tribe and sees that 
Uktena begin the game with a Willpower of three Traits. 
Cliff now has the option to choose Flaws and Negative Traits for his character. 
He decides that T.J. is Impatient and Condescending- no matter how fast things come 
to him, T.J. wants it five minutes ago, and his pride in his native heritage occasionally 
translates into a distinct dislike of whites or Wyrmcomer Garou (Wendi approves, 
gleefully thinking about the interesting roleplaying that’s sure to follow that). 
Nothing else seems to suit T.J. in this area, so Cliff moves on to Flaws next, selecting 
112 


Strict Carnivore (salads just don’t cut it for T.J.) and Nighmres. Wendi asks Cliff about 
- 
the nature of T.J.’s Nightmares, and Cliff explains that when T.J. was a little boy he 
witnessed the slaughter of his father’s pack. Elaborating further, Cliff tells of how T.J’s 
desire to lead stems from this incident - 
T.J. wants the resources that being an alpha 
can bring to better aid his quest to destroy the killers. Wendi thinks that the Flaw: 
Vengeful might be a good choice with that story, and Cliff agrees, gaining five extra 
Traits altogether. Now he has a total of 12 Free Traits in all to spend anywhere on his 
character (five Free Traits plus two Negative Traits and five Flaw Traits). 
First, Cliff adds three more Mental Traits, and picks Attentive, Cunning and 
Intuitive, moving up his total to six Traits; T.J. is not so fast to fight without a quick 
analysis ofhis opponent and surrounding. T.J. is also more likely to rise as a leader now 
that he is a bit more thoughtful. Then Cliff decides to take the Merit: Ancestral Mentor 
for three points, specifying it as T.J.’s great-grandfather (Wendi tells Cliff that he will 
need to work with one of the Storytellers in creating the specific powers and 
knowledges of his Mentor). Finally, Cliff decides that T.J. would attempt to be more 
well-rounded (all in the name of making a better leader), so Cliff raises T.J.’s Gnosis 
and Willpower by two Traits each, leaving him with no more Free Traits to spend 
(three points ofTraits, three points for his Merit, four points for two Gnosis Traits and 
two points for Willpower Traits). 
Wendi checks over the character sheet and affirms the correct amount of points 
Cliff has spent, as well as confirming that everything needing explanation has been 
done. Cliff is now ready to assume the role of T.J. Sampson. 
Though Cliff has completed the skeletonofhis character- Attributes, Abilities, 
Gifts, etc. - 
T.J. is by no means finished. Cliff has to test the waters of the game to 
get afeelfor whereT.J. fits socially and physically. D0esT.J. actually havewhat it takes 
to play the part of leader, or does his strength lie in upholding previously dictated rules 
by other leaders? His past is obviously important (after Cliff said that T.J. had 
witnessed his father’s murder), but how did it shape T.J. himself? Is revenge a 
prominent issue in his life? Does it rule his emotions, or is it the catalyst to his battle 
against the Wyrm? What clothes does T.J. wear? Does he have an accent? How does 
he handle social interaction, such as shaking hands or making eye contact? When he 
walks, does he tend slouch, or does he stand up straight? 
These are all questions that Cliff will have to answer before and during his time 
as T.J. Cliff understands that T.J. still needs more character development, but also sees 
that he has done as much as he can do; game play will help him discover more about 
the personality of T.J. He is all ready to go, and soon T.J. Sampson will experience the 
red-in-tooth-and-claw fight ongoing in a world plagued by the coming Apocalypse. 
113 


Pete slept. And dreamed.. . . 
He smiled to see the bright shores ahead of him. True, there weren’t any 
cities yet, but that would come later. For now, it would feel good just to get 
off the damn boat and walk on solid ground. He boarded the longboat headed 
into shore, watching the green trees and white sand grow from mere stripes of 
color on the horizon to broad swathes. He could smell green growing things 
on the wind -what 
a change and relief after weeks and weeks of saltwater! 
He stripped off his jerkin and wandered up and down the shore, drinking 
in the sight of the new land. Truly he was fortunate to walk on such land so 
obviously blessed by the Mother. And the woods spoke of even greater 
treasures and scents. With a backward glance at his companions (who were 
likewise pacing on the beach), he stepped off the sand and into the forest. 
He hadn’t gone far when he heard splashing off to the right. He changed 
course to investigate - 
some new animal? As he came upon the clearing, he 
immediately corrected his thinking. No, definitely not animal - 
it was a 
group of slender girls splashing near a forest pool, all copper-skinned and dark- 
haired like nothing he had ever seen, and all certainly beautiful. He smiled; 
yes, Gaia had definitely blessed him. 
One girl noticed him, and shrieked, alerting her companions. Four 
scrambled out of the pool, screaming, but one stood stock-still, staring into his 
eyes, completely unafraid. Without thinking, he pushed through the brush to 
get closer and squatted down at the edge of the pool. She considered him 
warily, and he tried to smile reassuringly. “I won’t hurt you,” he said, raising 
his hands. “My name is Peter.” 
He wasn’t sure how long he was there with her, but suddenly the clearing 
was filled with more of her people, carrying bows and spears. Behind him, his 
companions were crashing through the brush. T h e  two groups were speaking 
to each other, then shouting. He didn’t know what was starting the hostil- 
ity - 
all he could see was her lovely eyes, which were still fastened on his. 
Suddenly, one of the sailors fired his pistol. A warrior fell dead. And 
things went utterly to hell. He tried to shield the young woman from the 
madness, standing in front of her and trying to scream at the top of his lungs 
for the fighting to stop. He saw Crinos forms on both sides, all equally 
determined to tear each other apart. The shooting continued, and then, she 
was slumping against him, blood streaming from five musket-ball wounds. He 
caught her before she could go under, and rounded on the leader. There was 
an explosion of grey smoke in his face- 
Pete struggled awake, gasping, still feeling the pain of the musket ball 
tearing through his flesh. A Past Life then? Had he once been a warrior who 
had hesitated to go Crinos when he might have saved someone? Had he once 
failed to protect Gaia’s children from their siblings? 
He stayed awake for a long time after, thinking.. .. 


Gifts 
The inhabitants of the spirit world share their secrets with werewolves and other 
shapechangers. In accordance with pacts struck long ago, the spirits teach Gifts, 
magical abilities of many sorts, to the Garou. Tribe, breed and auspice all influence a 
spirit’s willingness to teach a particular Gift to a Garou; every community within the 
Garou Nation has its own secrets and connections. 
There’s a story behind each Gift: A spirit bound itself to a pact to teach that Gift 
to Garou who meet a particular qualification. Storytellers and players should keep this 
in mind when characters use Gifts in play. See “Systems,” below, for ways the vital 
history of Gifts can matter in the course of a game. 
Gifts do not come automatically or mechanically. Living spirits teach them, and 
when a Garou fails particularly impressively in his fundamental duties, the spirits can 
revoke their Gifts. The Gifts come to allow Garou to accomplish their assigned roles 
and tasks more thoroughly, not to do whatever seems like fun. 
Gifts are divided into three levels. Basic Gifts are available to cubs from the 
moment of their First Change, while Advanced Gifts are granted to those Garou who 
have done great deeds. A new Garou begins with one Basic Gift each from the lists for 
her breed, auspice and tribe. The player can spend freebie points to acquire more 
starting Gifts during character creation and can buy others after play begins with 
experience points. 
Learning Gifts 
The quickest and most reliable way for a Garou to learn a Gift is through dealing 
with spirits. Either the Garou petitions a suitable spirit himself, or he requests an elder 
to do so on his behalf. No spirit teaches a Gift to a werewolf who hasn’t earned the 
proper rank, and only spirits allied with the Garou willingly teach Gifts at all. 
The usual way to learn a Gifr is to travel to a caem with a power level equal to 
or greater than that of the Gift the Garou wishes to learn: level 1 or 2 for Basic Gifts, 
level 3 or 4 for Intermediate Gifts, level 5 for Advanced Gifts. The traveling Garou 
116 


then petitions the spirit directly. The act of summoning a spirit to a powerful caem i\ 
shows proper respect and inclines the spirit to honor the request. 
Unfortunately, the world is sadly lacking in powerful caems as the Apocalrpse 
approaches, so it’s often necessary to seek compromises. The next best course of action 
is for the Gift-seeking Garou to ask a powerful Theurge to petition the spirit on the 
seeker’s behalf. The Theurge’s rank and expertise in rites can offset some of the penalty 
from using a weak caem. 
A Garou may choose to enter the Umbra and seek out a spirit teacher directly. 
This is generally a bad idea. Inexperienced Garou can easily offend a spirit, and doing 
that in the spirit’s home realm leads to reprisals that may insure the Garou never gets 
home. Even a well-behaved Garou arouses spirits’ suspicion by making a request 
without proper support and ritual. 
Storytellers and players alike should keep in mind that spirits aren’t vending 
machines for Gifts. Every spirit has its ownpersonality, history, concerns and agenda. 
Garou who spend time cultivating the spirit’s company may win an ally as well as a 
source of Gifts, and spirits do sometimes return (without advance notice) to see how 
Garou use their Gifts. Werewolves who fulfill the general mission of the Garou and the 
more specific callings of their auspice, breed and tribe earn favor and may have an 
easier time dealing with pleased spirits in the future. Roleplaying the experience 
around the challenges to learn Gifts can strengthen a chronicle and help guide it away 
from clicht. 
Garou can teach Gifts to each other. This is inefficient, and when spirits find out 
that Garou have been doing it, some sort of atonement must almost always follow to 
restore spiritual harmony. Whena spirit teaches aGift, it merges withtheGarou’ssou1, 
and, in a period ranging from an hour (for Basic Gifts) up to asingle night (for the most 
complex Advanced Gifts), the spirit shows the Garou what to do and how it feels when 
the Gift works properly. When one Garou teaches another, on the other hand, it takes 
at least a full lunar month and often more. Practice requires a great deal of experimen- 
tation and often painful failure: learning Silver Claws, for instance, can render a Garou 
nearly incapacitated throughout the learning period. Garou teach Gifts this way 
because they must, thanks to the shortage of elders as well as of powerful caems. A 
Garou teaching a Gift to another Garou must be of the same Rank or above (or only 
one level less, if they’re packmates). 
Unless otherwise stated, Gifts may retest with the Occult Ability. 
T h e  Consequences 
Once he leamsaGift, aGaroudoesnotforget it.Onceaspirit teachesaGift, that 
spirit cannot remove it: It’s now part of the Garou’s own nature, an innate ability to 
call upon like the reflexes for walking. Garou who use their Gifts in disregard for the 
Litany and fundamental tenets of Garou society face social sanction (see “Renown”, 
p. 176), even as their Gifts continue to work. In the gravest extreme, Incamae and 
Celestines can block a Garou’s access to the Gifts their spirit broods teach. This is 
usually a temporary matter, Lasting until theGarou atones; blocking Giftspermanently 
is far more shameful than a mere death sentence. Most Garou live their lives without 
ever seeing a great spirit’s sanction imposed, though tales circulate about the 
unfortunates who suffer the consequences. The vast majority of packs and septs 
intervene to discipline or expel their rebellious members long before one of the kings 
of the spirit world can take offense. 
117 


Social sanctions can punish careless or inappropriate use of Gifts. For instance, 
Sense Wym doesn’t tell Garou that the targets are active minions of the Wyrm, only 
that they’ve been touched by the Wyrm at some point, perhaps through tainted food 
or a contaminated workplace. A Garou who uses Sense Wym to justify rampant 
slaughter and destruction is eventually going to lose Renown for foolish waste of effort 
and for failing to protect innocents: He’s forgotten that the Gift is a way to gather clues, 
not a license for carnage. Likewise with other Gifts, which Garou might attempt to 
justify with appealing to just one of the taboos that define Garou norm. There’s seldom 
just one relevant principle, and Gaia gave Her warriors judgment as well as strength. 
Storytellers and players alike should feel free to ask “Was this agood idea?“ as well 
as to reward innovation and ingenuity. Garou who use their Gifts intelligently as well 
as courageously should earn favor for it. 
fireeb Gifts 
Homib 
Wasic Gifts 
Jam Technology: This Gift allows you to disable technological devices. 
“Technology” in this case extends to all tools, though it’s harder to break simple tools. 
Spend one Gnosis Trait and make a Static Social Challenge, the number of Traits 
depending on the nature of the device. 
Traits 
Complexity of Device 
4 
Computers, complex electronics 
6 
Telephones, simple electronics 
8 
Cars, complex menchanical devices 
9 
Guns, straightforward machines 
10 
Knives, levers, simple tools 
If the challenge succeeds, all devices of the target complexity and higher within 
50 feet cease to work for one turn, plus an additional turn for each Mental Trait the 
Garou spends. Affected devices remain unchanged but inert, and resume working 
when the jamming wears off. 
Master of Fire: Taming fire helped separate humanity from beasts. This Gift 
lets you call on the ancient pact with fire-spirits, persuading them to withhold their 
hunger when you touch them. Spend one Gnosis Trait. Fire damage now heals as if it 
were bashing damage. The effect lasts for the rest of the scene, or for one hour. 
Persuasion: Your words carry unusual meaning and credibility in whatever way 
reaches each listener. Make a Static Social Challenge against six Traits (retest with 
Subterfuge). If the challenge succeeds, you gain one bonus Trait on all Social 
Challenges for the rest of the scene, or for one hour. You may gain additional bonus 
Traits at the cost ofone point of Gnosis each, spent at the time of the initial challenge. 
In addition to the game-mechanical effect, your words are more influential than usual 
on the roleplaying level, and Storytellers should work with players to make the use of 
Persuasion clear in play. 
Smell of Man: Wild creatures know that death follows the smell of humanity. 
This Gift lets you strengthen that smell, making wild animals fearful and domestic 
animals submissive. This Gift requires no Gnosis or challenge, only the decision to 
118 


turn the Gift on or off. When it's active, all wild animals (other than supernatural E 
creatures in animal form) suffer a one-Trait penalty to all challenges while within 20 
feet of you and flee when possible. Domesticated animals refuse to harm you, regardless 
of commands to the contrary unless you actually harm them in some way. 
Staredown: Your eyes gain a subtle but powerful quality that makes humans 
and animals flee and freezes other werewolves where they stand. Make a Social 
Challenge against the target. If it succeeds, a human or animal target flees for one turn, 
plus one additional turn per Mental Trait you spend. (The target may spend a 
Willpower Trait to avoid flight for one tum.) Garou targets do not flee, but cannot 
attack while you continue to stare them down. If you are attacked, Garou targets regain 
their freedom of movement. If the target is attacked, the effects of the Gift are 
dispelled. You can use this Gift on one target per turn. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Cocoon: With this Gift, you can draw a magical cocoon out of thin air, a thick, 
opaque, sarcophaguslike layer that immobilizes you but protects you from fire, 
starvation, gas, high pressure, cold and other environmental hazards. Spend one 
Gnosis to create the cocoon. This takes one turn. Once inside it, you ignore all attacks 
which fail to inflict levels of bashing or lethal damage equal to your Stamina-related 
Physical Traits. The first attack to inflict this much damage dissolves the cocoon. 
Otherwise it lasts for one scene or for one hour. You can spend one Gnosis Trait to 
renew the cocoon for another scene or hour, and can spend this Trait at any time before 
the cocoon dissolves. 
Disquiet: ThisGift allows you to perturb the target's soul, creating inexplicable 
depression and an urge to withdraw. The subject cannot draw effectively on active 
emotions or maintain concentration. Make a Social Challenge against the target. If 
the challenge succeeds, your target cannot regain Rage for the duration of the scene 
(or for one hour) and suffers a one-Trait penalty on any extended challenge. 
Reshape Object: You can transform once-living material (but not the 
substance of undead beings) into objects: trees into shelter, antlers into spears, animal 
hides into armor, flowers into perfume and so on. The resulting items resemble their 
sources: the spear shaft is made of antler, the armor retains skin textures, etc. Spend 
one Gnosis and make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Repair). The difficulty 
depends on the degree of transformation: making a broken tree branch into a spear 
requires a test against five Traits, while making a single plank into a raft that can carry 
three Garou requires a test against eight Traits, and making a blade ofgrass into a lean- 
to that can resist hurricane winds requires a test against 10 Traits or even more. Spend 
a second Gnosis Trait to allow a created weapon to inflict aggravated damage. 
Objects stay reshaped for only five minutes. Spend one Mental Trait to increase 
this to 10 minutes, two Mental Traits to increase it to one hour, three Mental Traits 
to increase it to the rest of the session or four Mental Traits to make it permanent. 
Spirit Ward: You can create an invisible pictogram to shield againstspirits. The 
resulting symbol unnerves spirits other than pack totems and caem spirits and travels 
with you. Send one Gnosis and make a Static Social Challenge against seven Traits. 
On success, spirits within 100 feet of you (other than pack totems and caem spirits) 
suffer a one-Trait penalty to all challenges, plus an additional one-Trait penalty for 
each Social Trait you spend. The Spirit Ward lasts for one scene or one hour. 


Aboanceb Gifts 
Assimilation: You can blend smoothly into any culture, no matter how strange 
or unfamiliar it seems. Assimilation doesn’t hide racial differences, but allows you to act 
and speak like a native and understand the local language. Make a Static Social 
Challenge. The difficulty varies based on how alien the culture is: infiltrating another 
sept requires only five Traits, while passing as a member of a Black Spiral Hive on 
another continent requires nine Traits. If the challenge succeeds, you suffer no social 
penalties while interacting with members of the target culture. Assimilation lasts for 
one scene, plus one day per Willpower Trait spent when activating the Gift. 
Part the Veil: This Gift lets you protect a human being from the effects of the 
Delirium. The human can then interact with Garou without suddenly breaking into 
flight or denial. If the target suffers the Delirium at alaterdate, muchofwhathappened 
while Part the Veil was in effect will become lost, just like other Delirium-obscured 
memories. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Empathy). If 
you win, the target is protected from the Delirium for one scene or one hour. 
wetis 
Wasic Gifts 
Burrow: With this Gift, you can burrow through the earth, creating a tunnel 
just large enough for you to go through. Others can follow, if they’re small enough to 
fit into the hole. You must be in Crinos, Hispo or Lupus form to use this Gift, since it 
requires digging claws. (Metis without claws or fragile claws can still use this Gift, 
relying on their extra-strong fingers.) The tunnel isn’t structurally sound and crumbles 
over time. Make a Physical Challenge against a difficult depending on the substance 
to be burrowed through: four Traits for loose mud, up to nine Traits for solid rock. 
Strong metals and reinforced structures don’t yield at all. You can burrow at one yard 
per turn, plus one yard per turn per Physical Trait spent, and need not make another 
challenge unless the composition of the material to burrow through changes. 
Create Element: You can create asmall amount offire, air, earth or water. (One 
Gift covers all four elements.) You cannot create specialized forms, like precious 
metals or lethal gases, but can replenish the air in a sealed room, make a rock to throw 
at someone, light afire withoutmatchesorfillabathtubwithoutfaucetorpipes. 
Spend 
one Gnosis and make a Gnosis Challenge. If successful, you create up to 10 pounds 
of the desired element per current Gnosis Trait, up to a maximum weight of 100 
pounds. The element can appear anywhere you can see within 60 feet and remains 
until used up. Flames created with this Gift inflict one level of lethal damage per 
Gnosis Trait, up to a maximum of three health levels. 
Curse of Hatred: Metis are expected to endure all sorts of abuse for the privilege 
of existing, and this can breed resentment and bitterness. With this Gift, you vent the 
hatred in your heart, demoralizing your opponents. Spend one Gnosis and make a 
Social Challenge. If successful, your opponent loses two Willpower Traits and two 
Rage Traits. This Gift can be used on any particular opponent once per scene. 
Primal Anger: You have learned to focus the anger metis suffer and use it to 
increase your Rage. Metis rarely teach this Gift to non-metis, as few ever experience 
enough shame and suffering. For each health level you sacrifice, you gain two Rage 
Traits, even if this takes you above your permanent Rage score. Such anger eats at its 
user, though- the damage heals as if it were aggravated. Primal Anger can be used once 
per scene. 
120 


Sense Wyrm: You can perceive nearbv manifestations of the Wvrm. The Gift [$ 
acts directly on your consciousness through a mystical sense, but Garou using it often 
describe it in terms of other senses, like “This place stinks of the Wyrm.” Garou must 
remember that the Wyrm’s taint often clings to innocent victims, such as those who 
eat tainted food or work in Wyrm-controlled factories. Make a Mental Challenge with 
a difficulty depending on the concentration and strength of the Wyrm’s influence. 
Test against six Traits to sense a fomor in the next room, but detecting the lingering 
residue of a Bane that left an hour ago requires testing against eight Traits. Vampires 
with three or fewer Humanity Traits always smell of the Wyrm; vampires on a Path of 
Enlightenment stink of the Wyrm no matter what their rating. 
Intermebiute Gifts 
Eyes of the Cat: Your eyes grow lambent green and can see clearly even in 
complete darkness. This Gift requires no Gnosis or challenges to use; simply declare 
when it’s active. WhenEyesofthe Cat is ineffect, yousuffernopenaltiesfromdarkness. 
Gift of the Porcupine: With this Gift, your fur becomes long, bristly and sharp, 
like porcupine quills. You must be in Crinos, Hispo or Lupus form to use this Gift. 
Spend one Gnosis; your fur immediately sharpens. Anyone you tackle, grapple or 
immobilize suffers a level of aggravated damage. Anyone who strikes you with bare 
flesh suffers damage as if he’d struck himself. The Gift lasts for one scene, or until you 
will your fur to return to normal. 
Mental Speech: You can speak directly into another person’s mind, even at a 
great distance. You must know the target personally (though you do not have to like 
the target) or have something that belongs to the target, such as a lock of hair. Spend 
one Willpower Trait and make a Social Challenge. If successful, you can communicate 
with a target at a distance of up to 10 miles per current Gnosis Trait the Mental Speech 
user possesses. Mental Speech does not allow for mind reading, but you can use social 
Abilities such as Intimidation. The Gift remains active for one scene. 
Wither Limb: You direct your hostility at a target’s arm or leg and make it twist, 
desiccate and wither. Only creatures with regenerative powers can escape permanent 
harm from this Gift. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Willpower Challenge 
against a total of your target’s Physical Traits. If you succeed, the victim suffers a two- 
Trait penalty to all Dexterity-related challenges; if her leg was targeted, she can move 
at only half normal speed. Regenerative powers take effect after one scene; otherwise 
this Gift creates permanent effects. 
A b o u n d  Gifts 
Madness: This Gift imposes the madness against which all metis struggle onto 
others. Its effects vary from one target to the next: Madness finds whatever weaknesses 
lurk within and draws them out. Spend one Gnosis and make an Social Challenge. The 
target suffers debilitating insanity for one day. You can change the intensity of the 
madness at any time, granting moments of lucidity and then yanking them away with 
fresh psychosis. The victim always suffers at least a one-Trait penalty to tasks requiring 
concentration, and, at the Storyteller’s discretion, can simply lose the ability to sustain 
a chain of thought for more than one turn at all. The memories and psychological 
trauma of the madness remain in effect even after the Gift expires. 
Totem Gift: You draw on your unusually strong ties within Garou society to 
plead directly with your tribal totem and gain some of its power. The results depend 
on the totem. Rat might send swarms of rats to attack an enemy, while Grandfather 
’ 
I 
i 
i 


Thunder might defend you with thunder and lightning. Miraculous manifestations are 
common, and the only real limit is the totem’s inclinations. Spend one Gnosis and 
make a Static Social Challenge against sevenTraits. Further expenditures increase the 
effects, from a minor manifestation to a veritable tide of elemental fury. 
Lupus 
aasic Gifts 
Heightened Senses: Your senses all become preternaturally sharp. In Homid 
or Glabro form, you can see, hear and smell as acutely as a wild wolf, while in wolf- 
related forms you’re all but precognitively alert. Note that this Gift doesn’t allow for 
selective intensification: Routine city noises can overload and cripple a wolf-form 
Garou withHeightened Senses. Spend one Gnosis. In Homid and Glabro form, you gain 
a two-Trait bonus to all perception-related challenges, and you may make Mental 
Challenges to perform feats normally impossible to human beings, like tracking by 
scent. In Crinos, Hispo and Lupus forms, you gain a three-Trait bonus to perception- 
related challenges and one-Trait bonus in Priml-Urge challenges. Heightened Senses 
lasts for the rest of the scene or for one hour. A sudden surge of sensory information 
(a discharging skunk, car alarm, flashbulb, etc.) overloads the sense in question, 
leaving you stunned for two rounds and possibly losing the overloaded sense for an 
hour (at Storyteller discretion). 
Hare’s Leap: You can leap incredible distances. The Bunyip knew it as Leap 
of the Kangaroo; reconcilation-minded Garou call this Gift by that name in honor of 
their fallen cousins.This Gift requires no Gnosis. Make a Physical Challenge. If 
successful, you double your normal jumping distance for your next leap. 
Scent of Sight: You can completely compensate for visual impairment through 
scent, including navigation in total darkness and making attacks against invisible 
creatures. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge) to trace a scent. 
Weird and unpleasant scents require five to seven Traits, while subtle and faint ones 
require up to 10 Traits. A blood-soaked invisible monster requires only five Traits; 
finding your way through clean steel corridors in darkness requires at least nine Traits. 
Make fresh challenges only when the scent changes or events might become distract- 
ing, like following it through water or into a fight in a reeking alley. 
Sense Prey: This Gift lets you find enough prey to feed a pack. Traditionally 
it came into use most often during hard winters. In urban environments, it generally 
guides Garou to parks, sewers, animal shelters and zoos. Sense Prey identifies large 
numbers of prey within 50 miles when you’re in the wild, or within the limits of a city 
and its suburbs. Human beings do not register as prey, though rumor credits the Red 
Talons with a variation on Sense Prey which does identify humans. Make a Static 
Mental Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge) against seven Traits in wilderness, nine 
Traits in urban environments. Success reveals the location of enough prey to feed a 
large pack. If multiple concentrations of prey would all serve, the Gift points to the 
nearest gathering (not necessarily the easiest or safest). 
Sense the Unnatural: You can detect unnatural presences and their general 
strengths and types. Sense the Unnatural reveals magic, spirits, the Wyrm, wraiths, 
vampires and other creatures, but doesn’t distinguish between something unnatural 
and someone merely touched by it (a haunting, a ghoul). Make a Mental Challenge 
(retest with Enigmas). Success provides a vague impression susceptible to various 
interpretations. That smell of old blood might be a vampire, or a cannibalistic spirit 
122 


or something else. Spend one additional Mental Trait for a clear but general 
impression-”something long dead but still moving on this side of the Gauntlet” - 
or two Mental Traits for a specific signature impression. Once you know that a vampire 
smells this particular way, for instance, spending two Mental Traits on future uses of 
Sense ofthe Unnatural will always make it clear that some new peril is another vampire. 
The Storyteller may require a second Static Mental Challenge (retest with 
Occult), against six Traits, to interpret an unfamiliar impression. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Beast Life: You can communicate with wild animals and give them orders. 
Domesticated animals will speak with you, but must be persuaded rather than ordered 
since they’re now part of the human order. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social 
Challenge (retest with Animal Ken). If successful, you can speak with all animals. You 
can also call animals of a single type within 10 miles, and those who can reach you 
without too much trouble or delay will do so. Spend an additional Mental Trait for 
each increase in 10 miles of the calling radius. Wild animals become friendly to you, 
willing to follow all reasonable requests and many unreasonable ones. (Ordering an 
animal tosacrifice itselfmust be followed with homage to itsspirit, or you risk angering 
Gaia.) The Gift lasts for one scene, plus an additional scene for each Gnosis Trait you 
choose to spend. 
Catfeet: You gain catlike agility, including immunity to damage from falls of 
less than a hundred feet (you always land just right) and perfect balance on all slopes. 
This Gift is innate and always active. The Garou gain a two-Trait bonus to all 
challenges involving body slams and efforts at grappling, and to challenges involving 
balance and equilibrium. 
Gnaw: Your jaws become strong enough to chew through just about anything, 
given time. Spend one Willpower and make a Static Physical Challenge, difficulty 
based on the toughness of the target material. Wood is only three Traits’ worth of 
difficulty while steel cables require testing against six Traits and titanium doors require 
nine Traits or even more. In addition, you inflict an additional level of lethal damage 
when biting in combat. The Gift lasts for the rest of the scene or for one hour. 
9 Name the Spirit: You have learned the Umbral ways and can sense the type 
and general power of nearby spirits. Spend one Willpower and make a Mental 
Challenge. If successful, you learn the type and approximate Rage, Gnosis and 
Willpower of a particular spirit within 50 feet (on either side of the Gauntlet). Further 
expenditure does not grant more knowledge; you learn enough to get started on 
research or have a general idea what you’re encountering. 
Elemental Gift: You can call upon elemental forces - 
not just the natural 
world brought to animation, but primal spirits of tremendous power. Spend one Gnosis 
and make a Social Challenge. Ifsuccessful, you call an elemental capable ofcommand- 
ing one of the four elements in any of their forms, occupying a space about 20 feet on 
a side, plus another 20 feet for each Social Trait you spend. The elemental remains for 
one scene or until it’s destroyed or dismissed. What happens once the elemental is 
called is another matter. 
Song of the Great Beast: You may only use this Gift in deep wilderness, 
howling the Song ofthe Great Beast to summon one of the creatures of long ago to your 
aid. Great Beasts include the willawau (giant owl), Yeti, sabertooth tiger, Megalodon 
123 


shark and mammoth. You can attempt to call any Great Beast you can imagine, and 
rumors persist of dinosaurs in remote jungles and other equally exotic creatures 
elsewhere in the world’s secret places. The Great Beast will listen to you but is not 
obligated to cooperate, and giving orders to such creatures is very unwise. Spend one 
Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge). If successful, the Great 
Beast comes out of the Umbra; spending more Social Traits increases the odds of its 
answering a request favorably. The Storyteller can set the Great Beast’s Traits to suit 
the situation, but they should be impressive - 
this is a creature of legend after all. 
Auspice Gifts 
Ragabas h 
fiasic Gifts 
Blissful Ignorance: With this Gift, you can become nearly invisible to all 
senses, spirits and monitoring devices by remaining still. Make a Physical Challenge. 
If successful, you blend into the landscape as long as you remain still. Cross your arms 
across your chest to show when this Gift is in use. The Gift lasts as long as the Garou 
can remain still. Talking, moving, attacking someone or the like will break the effect. 
Blur of the Milky Eye: You become a shimmering blur, able to pass unnoticed 
among others. Once someone else sees through the deception, you become visible to 
that observer until something distracts him and allows you to escape. Make a Social 
Challenge. If successful, you become a blur; the sharp-eyed see you as a hazy shape. 
Others can notice you only if you visibly disturb the environment in some way, and 
must win a Mental Challenge against you to do so. The Gift lasts for the rest of the 
scene or for one hour. While blurred, you may move at half your walking pace and 
speak in a whisper. You should cross your arms over your chest, and others should 
ignore your passage unless your character interacts with the environment in some way 
that leaves noticeable effects (talking out loud, running, dropping a vase, attacking). 
Open Seal: You can open almost every kind of closed and locked device. Make 
a Static Gnosis Challenge with a difficulty of the local Gauntlet rating to open a closed 
or locked barrier. 
Scent of Running Water: You can almost completely mask your scent. This 
Gift becomes active whenever you indicate. While it’s active, all challengers trying to 
track you by scent suffer a two-Trait penalty. 
Sense of the Prey: You gain an innate awareness of any prey about which you 
know something and can move toward it as fast as you can travel. This Gift operates 
124 


in the Utnbra as well as in the material world. This Gift works automatically if the 
target isn’t trying to hide. If it is, make a Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas); if 
the target is a spirit, pit your Mental total against the spirit’s Gnosis. 
Taking the Forgotten: You can take something from a target who then forgets 
about ever having owned it. Make a Mental Challenge; the Garou can retest with 
Stealth, the target with Streetwise. Bonded fetishes may stir memories of their own 
accord, though (the victim may make a Mental Challenge, Storyteller discretion, to 
“remember” that he had an item like this, but not how it went missing or by whom). 
fntetmebiate Gifts 
Gremlins: You can make a technological device malfunction just by touching 
it. The Gift actually disrupts the spiritual energy inside the device, possibly even 
frightening the spirit into leaving the device permanently and thereby dooming it to 
permanent breakdown. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Intimidation) with 
the difficulty based on the type of device. 
Traits 
Complexity of Device 
4 
Computers, complex electronics 
6 
Telephones, electrical items 
8 
Cars, machines 
10 
Knives, simple tools 
If successful, the device stops working for the rest of the scene. Spend one 
additional Social Trait to make the failure last for the rest of the session, two to make 
it permanent. At the Storyteller’s discretion, good roleplaying may add to your Social 
total or count as one (or even both) of the additional Traits. 
Luna’s Blessing: While the moon is visible in the night sky, silver does not 
inflict aggravated damage on you. During the full moon, silver may even turn against 
those who would use it to hurt you. This Gift is active whenever you indicate. While 
it’s in effect, as long as the moon is clearly visible in phase above the horizon (stepping 
into a building, bad weather or moonrise/moonset negates this Gift), you can 
regenerate damage from silver as if it were bashing or lethal damage (bashing if the 
weapon is blunt, lethal if it’s edged). Note that this Gift is not active during the new 
moon. During the full moon, any attacker who makes an unsuccessful attack against 
you must then make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the attacker takes normal damage 
from his silver weapon. 
Open Moon Bridge: You can create a moon bridge, with or without the 
cooperation of a caern totem. Spend one Gnosis to activate this Gift. See the Rite of 
the Opened Bridge (p. 154) for details; a moon bridge created with this Gift can stretch 
up to one thousand miles. 
Whelp Body: You can curse a foe’s body to render it weak or palsied. Using this 
Gift is tantamount to a declaration of permanent war, as far as the vast majority of 
Garou are concerned. Spend one Gnosis and make a Gnosis Challenge against the 
target. Success (not a tie) lets you permanently remove one of your target’s Physical 
Traits. You may only remove six Physical Traits in this way (by spending additional 
Gnosis during the challenge). The target can regain them by spending experience 
points as usual. This Gift works only once ever against a particular target. 
Abuanceb Gifts 
Thieving Talons of the Magpie: With this Gift, you can appropriate the 
powers of others. This Gift extends to Garou Gifts, spirit Charms, vampiric Disci- 
125 
1, s .. 


plines, mage Spheres and the like. Make a Mental Challenge against the target. If 
successful, you can use one specified power for one turn per Gnosis Trait you spend. 
During this time, the target cannot use the same power. Use your current Gnosis total 
inplaceofany Trait thatGaroudon’t normally possess, like BloodTraits, Glamourand 
so on. You must know something about the power in question - 
enough to specify 
which one you’re taking - 
and must physically be able to accomplish the actions it 
requires, like looking at someone. 
Thousand Forms: Trickster is a shapeshifter; so are the Ragabash, who bring 
his archetype into present experience. You can adopt any form at least as large as a 
small bird and no bigger than a bison. You gain all the standard powers of that animal 
(such as gills, flight, poison glands, etc.). You can’t take on the form of Wyrm-beasts, 
but can evoke mythical creatures. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Mental 
Challenge (retest with Animal Ken). The difficulty increases as the desired animal 
form becomes more remote from your own form: Test against five Traits for an ape, 
panther or other animal about as big as the Garou, sevenTraits for an alligator or other 
reptile somewhat larger than the Garou, nine Traits for a frog or other very small 
creature or against 10 for any mythical creature. 
Theurge 
Wasic Gifts 
CommandSpirit:Youcangivesimpleorders to spirits and expect them toobey, 
at least partially. Command Spirit cannot draw spirits from a distance, only command 
the ones on hand. Spend one Willpower and make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Leadership) against the spirit’s Gnosis. Each command after the first requires another 
Willpower Trait. You cannot command spirits to leave areas to which they’re bound; 
that requires the Theurge Intermediate Gift: Exorcism. 
Mother’s Touch: You can heal any wound in a living creature, even aggravated 
wounds, by laying hands on the afflicted area. You cannot use Mother’s Touch to heal 
yourself, spirits or the undead with this Gift. Spend one Gnosis to heal one health level 
of damage (make a Mental Challenge to heal non-Garou). Spend a second Gnosis 
Trait andmake aMentalChallenge (retest withMedicine) to heal battle scars, but only 
if you apply Mother’s Touch in the same scene in which the scars were inflicted. 
Name the Spirit: As the Lupus Gift. 
Sense Wyrm: As the Metis Gift. 
Sight From Beyond: You receive visions of impending danger or portentous 
events. These visions come without warning and always present the subject in 
metaphorical terms; a powerful vampire might appear as a bloody skeleton, while an 
impending battle might be represented by carrioncrows or shouted commands. Where 
possible, roleplaying is the best way to resolve interpretation of the signs Sight From 
Beyond provides, but Storytellers may allow a Mental Challenge (retest with Occult) 
to interpret particular elements of an omen. 
Spirit Speech: You can communicate with spirits in their “language.” Of 
course, the ability to address a spirit does not mean the spirit must answer or even stay 
in the area. This Gift works automatically and intuitively. You can understand spirits 
and speak to them in ways they understand. Reaching very alien spirits can be difficult; 
communicating with Banes can be downright painful. 
126 


Intermebiate Gifts 
Exorcism: You can force spirits to leave objects and places, regardless of 
whether the spirits were there voluntarily or bound. Make a Static Social Challenge 
(retest with Intimidation) against the spirit’s Willpower to displace a spirit that can 
choose to leave but does not wish to. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with 
Subterfuge) against eight Traits to displace a spirit that has been bound into place; 
Exorcism requires more successes on this challenge than the binder won while tying the 
spirit there. Exorcism can “cure” fomori, but the host generally dies once the Bane is 
ejected unless a powerful healer can preserve the host’s life through the Exorcism. 
Grasp the Beyond: You may carry things into and out of the Umbra without 
dedicating them to yourself. (See the Rite of Talisman Dedication, p. 157.) This Gift 
even allows you to take humans and animals, willing or otherwise. Garou often use 
Grasp the Beyond to bring loyal Kinfolk on Umbral quests and to heal injured Kinfolk 
in mystic glens. You must grasp the person or object to carry it (make a Physical 
Challenge to grapple an unwilling target). Spend one Willpower for small items 
(pocket watch, knife, etc.), two for larger items like backpacks and bows, or three for 
big items like people. Make the usual challenge to step sideways. If you succeed, you 
and your carried object both enter or depart the Umbra. Unwilling targets may make 
a Willpower Challenge to resist and only cross the Gauntlet if the Garou wins this 
challenge as well. 
Once in the Umbra, carried people must rely on the Garou or an area like a caem 
with very low Gauntlet rating (3 or less) to escape if they don’t possess the ability to 
step sideways themselves. People left in the Umbra indefinitely gradually turn entirely 
to spirit matter. 
Pulse of the Invisible: Spirits fill the world, but most Garou do not see them 
most of the time. This Gift lets you see the spirits whether in the Umbra or in the 
material world and interact with Umbral spirits at will. Most spirits aren’t doing 
anything very interesting, but sometimes things change dramatically, and Pulse of the 
Invisible lets you know when a change or complication arises. You can see into the 
Umbra without a challenge whenever your permanent Gnosis equals or exceeds the 
local Gauntlet rating. When the Gauntlet is stronger, make a Static Mental Challenge 
against the Gauntlet rating. The effect lasts for the rest of the scene or until you go 
somewhere with a higher Gauntlet rating. 
Spirit Drain: You may siphon power from a spirit to feed your own resolve. 
Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against the spirit’s Gnosis. On a success, you drain two 
Power points from the spirit, granting a temporary Willpower Trait. You may use this 
Gift as frequently as you like, but any Willpower exceeding the maximum for your 
Rank is lost at the end of the scene. 
Feral Lobotomy: You can reduce an opponent’s mind to animallike complex- 
ity, effectively destroying the target’s ability to reason. Spend two or more Gnosis and 
make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Empathy) against Traits equal to the 
target’s Willpower + 3. You can destroy one Mental Trait per success, at a cost of two 
Gnosis each. The target becomes more and more animalistic with each lost Trait; he 
can only be dropped to one Mental Trait. 
The Malleable Spirit: You can change a spirit’s form and purpose. Make a 
Static Gnosis Challenge against a difficulty depending on the intended change, while 
127 


the spirit makes a Static Gnosis Challenge against your Gnosis. Changing the spirit’s 
Willpower, Rage or Gnosis requires a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits, with 
one success required per Trait added or removed. Changing the spirit’s disposition 
(friendly, neutral or hostile) requires a Gnosis Challenge against eight Traits, with 
success allowing you to specify the spirit’s new disposition. Changing the spirit’s basic 
type (Naturae, Elemental, Bane, etc.) requires a Gnosis Challenge against 10 Traits. 
Many spirits are not crazy about being monkeyed with and will fight such change. 
d7 hi 1 o box 
Wasic Gifts 
Call to Duty: You can summon and command any spirit you know by name. 
This Gift allows for one command, after which the spirit is free to leave; it does not 
teach the names of spirits. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Leadership) 
against the spirit’s Willpower. If successful, you can summon a local spirit and give a 
single command. Spend two Gnosis to summon all spirits within one mile to aid or 
protect you, even without knowing their names. Name the Spin’t can provide spirit 
names as can personal acquaintance through other means. 
King of the Beasts: You can command the loyalty of a specific animal, which 
will follow your commands willingly and unconditionally. The target must be within 
100 feet. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Animal Ken) against three Traits 
for a sibling animal (such as a wolf littermate), six Traits for an animal you feed and 
care for, eight Traits for an unfamiliar animal or 10 Traits for a hostile one. This Gift 
can only affect one animal at a time and does not draw animals to your vicinity. 
Resist Pain: You can continue to act without suffering impairment from 
wounds. The wounds themselves must be treated and healed later; Resist Pain only 
blocks some of their effects. Spend one Willpower. No wound penalties apply for the 
rest of the scene or for one hour. 
Scent of the True Form: With this power, you can tell what a person’s true 
nature is through scent and other cues that manifest like scents. You can automatically 
recognize other werewolves. To detect other sorts of creatures, make a Static Mental 
Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge) against six Traits for most sorts of creatures, 
against eight Traits for vampires, faeries and other shapeshifters, or against 10 Traits 
for fomoti and mages. 
Strength of Purpose: You draw strength from your underlying conviction 
about your place in pack, tribe and world. Make a Static Physical Challenge (retest 
with Rituals) against seven Traits. For every success, regain one Willpower Trait, up 
to your maximum. You may use this Gift once per scene. 
Truth of Gaia: You can tell when others are speaking the truth or lying. Make 
a Mental Challenge. If successful, you can determine whether the target is deliberately 
lying. (The key word is deliberately - 
the target may speak falsehood but be telling the 
truth as she understands it, complete with misinformation or altered memories.) 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Roll Over: You can compel a target to submit to you by exerting your presence 
and force of will. You can make humans fall to their knees, wolves roll on their backs 
and so on. Make a Willpower Challenge. If successful, the victim can take no action 
other than submission unless indirect danger. This Gift lasts for one scene or one hour. 
128 


Scent of Beyond: Youcanfocusyoursensesonadistantsvot-atanvdistance. @ 
in fact, or even in the Umbra as long as you’re familiar with it. fou see it as if standing 
in the middle of the chosen area. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with 
Enigmas) against eight Traits or the local Gauntlet rating, whichever is higher. The 
change of viewpoint lasts for the rest of the scene or until you choose to stop observing 
the target. While using Scent of Beyond, you are unaware of your immediate environ- 
ment. 
Weak Arm: You can observe an opponent’s fighting style and evaluate 
strengths and weaknesses based on subtle clues others would miss. Concentrate for one 
full turn and make a Mental Challenge (retest with Brawl). Success gives you a one- 
Trait bonus on your next attack against that target, plus an additional bonus Trait for 
each Mental Trait spent on Weak Arm. Weak Arm can only be used once per scene 
against any individual target, and the benefits last only until the end of the scene. 
Wisdom of the Ancient Ways: All werewolves retain some innate connection 
to their ancestors, accessible through meditation. This Gift lets the Garou bring old 
memories to the surface and recall ancient lore. Meditate for at least one full turn and 
make a Static Gnosis Challenge against nine Traits (- 1 for each level of Ancestors the 
Garou possesses). If successful, the Garou gets a general impression of the information 
she seeks. spend one Mental Trait to make it clear though broad, two to make it 
detailed and specific. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Geas: You can impose a Geas, a sacred binding oath, upon the target. A Gem 
cannot override basic instincts such as self-preservation, but you may otherwise 
command one or more individuals as you see fit. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static 
Social Challenge (retest with Leadenhip) against the target’s Willpower. To Gem a 
group, such as a pack or family, make the test against whoever has the highest 
Willpower. The compulsion lasts until the assigned task is completed, or the target 
falls to Incapacitated in pursuit of the quest. No victim can suffer from more than one 
Gem at a time, and the first one laid always takes precedence. 
Wall of Granite: Philodox have unusually strong relationships with earth 
elementals. While in contact with earth or rock, you can invoke a wall to protect 
yourself, which will move with you to protect you from all angles. Spend one Gnosis. 
The wall emerges automatically, and is three yards high, two yards long and one yard 
thick. Itcanabsorb 10 levelsofbashingandlethaldamage andhas 15 healthlevels that 
must be penetrated to break through it at any point. The wall lastsforone sceneoruntil 
released by the Garou. 
G alli ar b 
~ a s i c  
Gifts 
Beast Speech: You can communicate with any sort of animal, from fish to 
mammals. Beat Speech does not change animals’ natures or reactions and does not 
make the Garou seem like any less formidable a predator. Make a Social Challenge 
(retest with Animal Ken). Each separate encounter or type of animal requires its own 
challenge - 
for example, a successful challenge to speak with a rattlesnake would 
allow you to speak with all venomous snakes, but you need another successful 
challenge to talk with a stag. 
129 


Call of the Wyld: Your natural aptitude for communicating with howls 
y 
becomes greatly magnified. A Call of the Wyld can stir other Garou to fresh energy, 
even those beyond the normal range ofhearing. Galliards regularly use this Gift at the 
beginning of revels and other pack and sept activities and to call for aid in trouble. 
Make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the remarkable call goes out. A single success 
carries it to all Garou within twice normal hearing range. Spending an additional 
Physical Trait provides the following bonus - 
those Garou who hear the call gain a 
one-Trait bonus to the next challenge they take part in as members of the pack or sept 
(that is, to group efforts, not individual ones). Spend two additional Physical Traits 
to impose a one-Trait penalty on all combat-related challenges that the hearing 
Garou’s opponents engage in for the rest of that scene. 
Call of the Wyrm: This extremely dangerous Gift draws Wyrm-creatures to 
you. Galliards traditionally surround this Gift with a great deal of cautionary advice 
and watch those who know it for signs of corruption. It’s most often used to bait 
ambushes and flush prey from hiding. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with 
Performance) against the Wyrm-creature’s Willpower. If successful, you can implant 
an overwhelming urge in the Wyrm-creature’s mind. Spend an additional Social Trait 
to hide the otherwise obviously external source of the impulse and make the creature 
regard the urge as its own idea. 
Distractions: You can supernaturally distract your target with a mix of yips, 
yelps and howls. Make a Social Challenge (retest with Performance). If you succeed, 
the victim suffers a one-Trait penalty on all challenges next turn, plus an additional 
one-Trait penalty for each Social Trait you spend. 
Dreamspeak: You can enter another’s dream and change its course. You do not 
have to be anywhere nearby, but must know or have seen the dreamer. Make a Mental 
Challenge (retest with Empathy) to gain control over the victim’s dream. No damage 
the victim suffers in the dream carries over into waking reality, but disorientation 
imposes a one-Trait penalty on the victim’s challenges for one turn per Gnosis Trait 
you possess (if you are inflicted a disorienting or unpleasant dream). If the dreamer 
awakens while you are still in the dream, you will be immediately thrown out of the 
dream world and lose one Gnosis Trait. 
Mindspeak: You can link the minds of targeted individuals into a sort of shared 
waking dream. They perceive the shared dream overlaid on mundane reality, and can 
communicate freely with each other while it lasts, at the cost of some impairment of 
their ability to deal with their respective immediate physical surroundings. Spend one 
Willpower Trait per sentient being to link in Mindspenk. Make a Social Challenge 
against each unwilling participant. Participants can speak freely once linked, and can 
use Social Abilities against each other. They suffer a two-Trait penalty on all 
challenges dealing with their own surroundings. Mindspeak ends when all participants 
choose to end it, or when you fail a challenge against an unwilling target. Participants 
must be within line of sight of each other when the Gift goes into effect, but can move 
any distance thereafter. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Bridge Walker: You can create minor moon bridges for your own exclusive use. 
It takes one percent of the usual time to travel along one of these bridges, allowing 
(among other things) for you to disappear in front of a foe and reappear behind it. 
Lunes do not protect these bridges, and they do sometimes attract spirit creatures’ 
interests. Such creatures may even follow you into the physical world. Spend one 
Gnosis to create the bridge. It lasts for only one passage unless you also spend a 
130 


permanent Gnosis Trait while creating the bridge, in which case it lasts until the next 
full moon. The bridge can extend up to one mile per Gnosis Trait the Garou possesses 
at the time of creation. 
Eyes of the Cobra: With a strangely compelling look, you can draw a victim 
to your side. Make a Social Challenge (retest with Enigmas). If you win, the victim 
begins moving toward you; spend an additional Mental Trait to make the victim move 
as rapidly as possible without risking actual injury. The victim regains power of choice 
within arm’s reach of you. 
Shadows by the Firelight: You invoke shadows and dreams to create stories in 
which others take part.. . willingly or not. Shadows surround the participants as they 
act out the roles you assign, and dreamlike sensations fill in sensory gaps. Galliards 
often use this Gift at moots while teaching stories from Garou history and legend. It 
can also serve as a weapon, however, commanding the targets into fixed behavior. 
There is no challenge required to use this Gift on willing subjects. To force unwilling 
targets into a story, make a Social Challenge (retest with Perfmnce) against each 
victim. The story begins when the requisite number ofvictims are all compelled to act. 
Each must act precisely as one of the characters in the story you tell. This Gift lasts for 
one turn per Gnosis Trait you spend. 
Song of Rage: You sing a song that unleashes the Beast in others, driving 
werewolves, vampires and other supernatural creatures into frenzy and inspiring 
berserker rages in human beings. Make a Social Challenge (retest with Lendership). 
The victim flies into a violent rage for one turn (or frenzies if he is susceptible to 
frenzy), plus one for each additional Social Trait spent. This Gift affects one victim 
at a time; you may use it once per turn. 
Abvanceb Gifts 
Fabric of the Mind: The greatest Galliards can bring the products of their 
imagination to life, drawing out creatures and objects from their dreams. Make a Static 
Mental Challenge (retest with Performance) against eight Traits. With a success, each 
Trait successfully risked provides one Trait which you can assign as you like to a single 
imagined object or creature. The Traits can go into one object or several and have any 
characteristics you can imagine and describe. Once created, the objects require one 
Gnosis Trait per scene per object to remain in the material world if they’re relatively 
inactive, one Gnosis Trait per turn per object if they’re involved in fights and other 
strenuous activities. Creatures brought out thusly are sentient, but not entirely 
independent; they react naturally, but perform by your volition. 
If you fail the challenge before accumulating the desired Traits, make two Simple 
Tests. If you fail both, the object emerges immediately, independent of your control 
and often not exactly what you wanted. It lasts until destroyed, banished or otherwise 
removed. 
Head Games: This Gift puts a target’s emotions under your control. You can 
change love to hate and back again, twist the objects of desire and do almost anything 
else you please to your victim. Keep in mind that over-indulging in destructive 
impulses may, over time, corrupt your soul. Make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Empathy) against the target. Success allows you to manipulate the target’s emotions in 
any way you desire. The Gift lasts for the rest of the scene, or for one hour. Creating 
lastingemotions isdifficult: The effectsofHeadGames wearoff inensuing scenes unless 
events reinforce them. You can, for instance, make the target fall in love with 
someone, but the passion will fade unless the target has reasons to find that person 


attractive without manipulation and without some sign of favorable response from the 
object of desire. On the other hand, an irrational fear of a particular mode of attack 
or kind of creature can easily become lasting if the target suffers damage from the object 
of fear while Head Games is in effect. 
Ahroun 
fiasic Gifts 
Falling Touch: You can knock over your target with the lightest touch. Make 
a Physical Challenge (retest with Medicine). If successful, the target falls down. Using 
this Gift counts as an action; using Falling Touch and striking to inflict damage are 
separate actions. The target must sit on the ground for the next four actions (or 15 
seconds if not in combat). He may not initiate Physical Challenges, but may defend 
himself as normal. 
Inspiration: You can shares your confidence, resolve and righteous anger with 
your comrades. Spend one Gnosis. Each comrade (excepting the Gift-user) within 
arm’s reach receives an automatic success on a single Willpower Challenge that scene, 
or one additional Willpower Trait to spend. 
Razor Claws: You can sharpen your claws by raking them over stone or other 
hard surfaces. Spend one Rage and take one full turn to sharpen your claws. For the 
rest of the scene, your claw attacks inflict an additional level of damage. 
Sense Silver: Ahroun learn to evaluate all potential threats. This Gift lets you 
detect nearby silver weapons through subconscious cues. Make a Mental Challenge 
(retest with Primal-Urge). If successful, you can tell that silver weapons are nearby; 
spend an additional Mental Trait to learn their precise locations. 
Spirit of the Fray: You can strike like lightning, preempting even the fastest 
opponents. This Gift is always in effect. You are considered to have 10 (yes, 10) 
additional Traits for initial challenges, and can spend a Gnosis Trait for an additional 
10 for a single challenge. Remember that Garou can’t spend Rage and Gnosis in the 
same turn, so buying the initiative edge this way means that you can’t spend Rage for 
extra actions. 
True Fear: You can scare your chosen target into fearful quiescence. Make a 
contest of your PhysicalTraits (retest with Intimidation) against the target’s Willpower. 
If you are successful, the target cannot attack for one turn, plus one turn for each 
Mental Trait you spend. The target can defend against attacks and otherwise act 
normally (or as normally as possible when gripped with terror). 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Clenched Jaw: You can bite down with such force that you can’t be pried loose 
until you choose to let go. If you are killed, your teeth remained clenched. Make a 
successful bite attack before using this Gift. Spend one Rage Trait. On succeeding 
turns, make a biting attack with a two-Trait bonus to keep inflicting bite damage. The 
victim can make a Physical Challenge to break free (suffering an additional level of 
lethal damage if it works), but you can add half your Willpower Traits to your total for 
the challenge. 
Heart of Fury: With this power, you erect mental and spiritual barriers against 
the flow of anger within, restraining yourself by suppressing the rage for the time being. 
You must vent it later, of course, before it erupts in frenzy. Make a Static Willpower 
Challenge against your permanent Rage Trait total. You receive a one-Trait bonus per 
132 


success to efforts at resisting frenzy that scene. At the end of the scene, spend one 
Willpower Trait or make a frenzy check at normal difficulty. 
Silver Claws: You can transform your own claws into silver. Make a Static 
Gnosis Challenge against seven Traits. If successful, your claws become silver for the 
rest of the scene or until you decide to return them to normal. While silver, your claws 
do aggravated damage to all targets. When you make a successful strike on your target, 
you inflict an extra level of aggravated damage to any creature susceptible to silver. 
The transformation is agonizingly painful, giving you an automatic Rage Trait each 
turn and imposing a one-Trait penalty on non-combat challenges. When your Rage 
total exceeds Willpower, you must test for frenzy. 
Stoking Fury’s Furnace: This Gift allows Ahroun to channel their rage in very 
precisely controlled ways. You automatically regain one Rage Trait in any turn that 
you suffer damage, and do not have to test for frenzy from that specific stimulus (though 
other stimuli may impose challenges as usual). You can spend one Rage Trait per turn 
without losing temporary Rage. If you spend two or more Traits in one turn, they’re 
marked off as usual. 
Rboanceb Gifts 
Kiss of Helios: You draw on the sun’s power to become immune to fire damage, 
and can set any part of your body on fire and keep it burning for extended periods. 
Spend one Gnosis. For the rest of the scene, you take no damage from natural fire, up 
to and including molten lava. Artificial sources of fire like napalm and gas fires inflict 
half their usual damage (round up), and it’s treated as bashing damage. You can inflict 
two additional levels of aggravated damage if you attack with blazing fists, claws or 
fangs. 
Strength of Will: You can inspire yourself and your comrades to remarkable 
heights of courage - 
no task is too daunting. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest 
with Leadership) against eight Traits, and spend Gnosis. Each Gnosis Trait spent gives 
all of the Garou’s allies within 100 feet an extra Willpower Trait. These bonus Traits 
last for the rest of the scene and are spent as usual. Strength of Will can raise Willpower 
totals over their Rank maximum, and even over 10. This Gift may only be used once 
per scene by any individual Garou, and allies can receive its benefits from only one 
Garou at a time. 
Tribal Gifts 
Most of these Gifts are taught by spirits who serve or are associated with a tribe’s 
totem. Learning Gifts from another tribe requiresgoodrelations with a member ofthat 
tribe, usually a packmate, who can summon the appropriate spirit. The Garou who 
wants to learn the other tribe’s Gift must assure the spirit that she will put it to good 
use and that she will not use it against any members of the spirit’s patron tribe. 
nhck Furies 
Basic Gifts 
. 
Breath of the Wyld: You can instill a Wyld-born sense of vitality in others, 
providing proof by example of what life can be but so often isn’t. You must touch the 
target’s skin (Physical Challenge if necessary) while outdoors in some reasonably 
natural setting (a park will do in cities). Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against five 
133 


I 
_i? Traits for Garou, six Traits for humans. Success grants the target a one-Trait bonus on 
all Mental and Rage Challenges for the rest of the scene. The target also feels 
invigorated and clear-headed; minor confusion slips away. 
Curse of Aeolus: You can call up an unnatural fog to obscure opponents’ vision 
and intimidate them. You can see through the fog, but all others suffer impairment. 
Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against a number of Traits, dependent on frequency 
of fog in the area: four Traits on the seashore, six Traits in most locations, nine Traits 
in the desert. This power does not function in places where fog could not naturally 
occur (such as indoors). You suffer no visual impairment; all others can use only half 
their normal Trait total (rounded up) in perception-related challenges. Everyone 
except you and your packmates also suffer a one-Trait penalty on Willpower Chal- 
lenges as the fog seems unnerving and menacing. The Gift lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Heightened Senses: As the Lupus Gift. 
Sense of the Prey: As the Ragabash Gift. 
Sense Wyrm: As the Metis Gift. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Body Wrack: You can create crippling pain in a target, just by pointing at him. 
Spend one Gnosis and make a Physical Challenge (retest with Medicine). On success, 
the victim is racked with fiery agonies. The victim suffers a one-Trait penalty on all 
challenges due to the pain, plus an additional one Trait for each Mental Trait you 
spend. The pain lasts for the rest of the scene, or for one hour. 
Coup de Grace: You identify your target’s most vulnerable spot and prepare a 
special attack upon it. Spend one Willpower and make a Mental Challenge (retest 
with Brawl). If successful, you inflict double damage with your next attack if it 
succeeds. (If the next attack fails, the benefits of Coup de Grace are lost.) 
Visceral Agony: Your claws become barbed talons which drip black venom. 
They inflict no extra physical damage, but deal out horrendous, crippling pain. Spend 
one Rage before attacking. Wound penalties the target suffers during the next attack 
are doubled - 
the target is at a four-Trait penalty when Wounded, and so on. The 
target only suffers the normal wound penalties if in frenzy or otherwise capable of 
resisting or ignoring pain. 
Wasp Talons: You can discharge your claws from your hands like darts. (You 
cannot make any more claw attacks with a hand you’ve used until the claws 
regenerate.) Spend one Rage and make a Physical Challenge (retest with Brawl). 
Figure the difficulty penalties as ifyou were using agun. Damage is normal claw damage 
for the character (this excludes any other claw-enhancing Gifts like Silver Claws). It 
takes one full turn to regenerate claws once fired off. 
Abuanceb Giff s 
Thousand Forms: As the Ragabash Gift. Furies who adopt mythical beast form 
generally honor Pegasus and assume her form. 
Wyld Warp: This Gift summons Wyld-spirits.. . that you cannot control. It’s 
a desperate tactic, since they run or fly in an unpredictable destructive fury. Wyld- 
spirits have been known to dismember enemies, grant the summoner and her 
packmates increased physical strength or Rage, instantly heal the Fury and her 
packmates of all damage to allow a sustained fight, or destroy all Weaver-tools in the 
area. Whatever they do, it will be beneficial in some sense. Spend one Gnosis and one 
Rage. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas) against the local 
134 


Gauntlet rating. Success summons avariable number of Wvldings, who behave as the 1 6 
- .  
Storyteller sees fit. The Wyldings will do something that helps - 
it’s just unlikely to 
be what you most want or expect. 
&one Gnawers 
63asic Gifts 
Blissful Ignorance: As the Ragabash Gift. 
Cooking: With only a small pot (a coffee can or bigger) and a ladle or spoon, 
you can stir together any rubbish you can find with water and produce a nourishing 
mush. It’s pasty and bland, but very filling. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest 
with Survival), against a difficulty depending on the ingredients: six Traits for inedible 
but harmless materials, up to 10 Traits for virulent toxins. 
Odious Aroma: You can magnify your body odor to a debilitating degree. 
Spend one Gnosis. All beings with a sense of smell suffer a two-Trait penalty to all 
challenges while within 20 feet of you, thanks to the stench. This Gift lasts for the rest 
of the scene. 
Resist Toxin: The Bone Gnawers’ usual diet, rich in dangerous substances, 
provides the basis for developing a truly amazing resistance to poisons of all sorts. Make 
a PhysicalChallenge (retest with Survival). Success neutralizes most poisons and gives 
you a three-Trait bonus on challenges to cope with Wyrm-enhanced poisons. 
Tagalong: This Gift makes you seem appealing, or at least acceptable to the 
totem guarding a pack or caem, for a short while. While it’s in effect, you are treated 
just like any other member of the pack when it’s time for the totem’s blessings, pack 
maneuvers and the like. A caern totem will allow you to perform the Rite ofthe Opened 
Caern without fear of retribution. You must know the totem’s name and must prostrate 
yourself before the caem center or pack leader, wriggling forward on your stomach like 
a begging dog (you need not actually do this). Make a Static Social Challenge (retest 
with Subterfuge) against the totem’s Gnosis. Success gives you the benefits described 
above for one day, and the totem will disapprove of any Garou who mistreats you 
without cause. Overuse of this Gift can cause bad will, though occasional, careful and 
respectful usage won’t. 
Intermcbiate Gifts 
Attunement: You can communicate with the spirits of a city or town and leam 
useful things from them: The population of the city (in general terms), Garou and 
other supernatural beings’ enclaves, secret tunnels and the like. This Gift only works 
in urban areas. Spend one Gnosis and make a Mental Challenge (retest with 
Streetwise). Success provides you with general information. Spend one additional 
Mental Trait for precise answers to one or two questions, and two additional Mental 
Traits for detailed information on a whole category of questions like “supernatural 
enclaves,” “derelict buildings” and so on. 
Friend in Need: Garou of other tribes are slow to accept Bone Gnawers as 
equals. When they do, Bone Gnawers can repay that trust in remarkable manner. You 
can choose to sacrifice everything for the sake of a packmate or tribemate. Spend one 
Willpower and make a Willpower Challenge. If successful, you can transfer one of the 
following - 
health levels, Rage, Willpower or one Gift -fromyourself 
to a comrade. 
Friend in Need does not allow for transferring Gifts of higher ranks than the recipient 
could know, nor for the transfer of Abilities or Attributes. The transfer lastsfor the rest 


of the scene, or until the recipient chooses to terminate the transfer. While Friend in 
Need is in effect, you cannot use the transferred Traits. If the recipient dies before 
they’re returned, you lose them permanently (although you may buy them back with 
Experience Traits). Health levels lost in this way return as aggravated damage. 
Infest: You can summon vermin to invade any structure up to the size of a large 
building. Whatever creatures are at hand come, be they insects, slugs, rodents, snakes, 
carrion birds or other unpleasant creatures. The creatures summoned do not attack 
people, but behave according to their nature, which generally means looking for dark 
places to hide within the targeted structure. Spend Gnosis to achieve the desired effect, 
and make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Animal Ken) against seven Traits. A 
single Trait gathers a few creatures to make a nuisance, while five Traits fill the building 
with enough vermin to make it uninhabitable for a prolonged period of time. 
Reshape Object: As the Homid Gift. 
Riot: You summon malevolent spirits to goad a city’s people into violent 
rioting. The spirits make hatreds and fears of all sorts seem justified, distorting 
perceptions and blocking communication that could defuse the escalating tension. 
Spend Gnosis enough to achieve the desired effect, and make a Static Mental 
Challenge (retest with Subterfuge) against eight Traits. One Gnosis Trait provides 
enough spirits to infest a building, two to infect a block, three to rouse aneighborhood, 
four to arouse several neighborhoods or a district, five to affect the whole city. The 
spirits begin by concentrating on a target group you specify, but they don’t work 
together or stay directed. The spirits leave at the end of the scene; after that, normal 
human psychology takes its course. 
Survivor: This Gift brings the Bone Gnawer knack for survival to its purest 
expression, providing (temporary) freedom from the need for food, water, sleep, 
protection from the climate or temperature extremes and the like. You develop a 
temporary immunity to natural poisons and diseases, and even Wyrm-toxins work at 
only halftheir normal strength. Spend one Gnosis and make a Physicalchallenge (retest 
with Survival). Success grants the effects described above; the effects last for one day. By 
spending a second Gnosis, you can gain three Stamina-related Traits and suffer no 
wound penalties, but the Gift will expire early after 10 rounds of combat. When the Gift 
wears off, you must sleep for at least eight hours, and you’ll awaken ravenously hungry. 
Chilbren of Gaia 
6 a s i c  Gifts 
Calm: You can calm others’ anger. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social 
Challenge (retest with Empathy). Success removes one of the target’s Rage Traits, plus 
one for each Mental Trait you spend. Creatures who can frenzy but do not possess Rage, 
like vampires or fomori, come out of frenzy. 
Luna’s Armor: You may call on Luna for protection in battle, even (to some 
degree) against silver weapons. Spend one Gnosis. You must concentrate for one full 
turn and make a Physical Challenge (retest with Survival). Success gives you one extra 
Healthy health level for the rest of the scene, plus one for each Mental Trait spent. 
These bonus levels can absorb damage from silver, but only these can. These levels last 
until wounds are suffered or until the end of the session. You may only carry as much 
armor as you have in Rank. 
136 


--ll/ A 6 - u - u - d d g 3  
Mercy: This Gift allows the Children of Gaia to fight with their natural 
weaponry and Rage, but to subdue rather than kill opponents. Mercy often comes into 
play in duels and when a high-Rage Garou seeks prisoners or subjects rather than 
corpses. (Note that this Gift can enhance Intimidation and other social efforts, as it 
looks very strange: Claws and fangs tear open wounds, which then immediately close 
up most of the way and turn into bruises. It’s obvious to all observers that something 
unnatural is going on.) Spend one Gnosis. For the rest of the scene, all damage that 
you inflict with your own body is considered bashing damage. Opponents who’d 
otherwise die simply fall unconscious and may heal at normal bashing damage rates. 
Mother’s Touch: As the Theurge Gift. 
Resist Pain: As the Philodox Gift. 
lntermebiate ~ i f t s  
Beast Life: As the Lupus Gift; Children of Gaia do not use this Gift to lure 
animals to harm except to save the heart of a caern from imminent danger. 
Dazzle: You can flood a target’s mind with the glory and love ofGaia, rendering 
her stunned and harmless for a while. Make a Social Challenge. Add two Traits to your 
total when using Dazzle against normal humans or one Trait when using it against 
Gaian Garou. Subtract one from your total when attempting to Dazzk unemotional 
or highly alien creatures, including vampires. Success makes the target sit down and 
quietly contemplate Gaia’s wonders for the rest of the scene. The target can return to 
normal awareness if attacked. Dazzle can only affect aparticular target once per scene. 
Spirit Friend: A Child of Gaia’s presence is more reassuring than the aura given 
off by most Garou, and spirits can sense the difference. Spirit Friend eases your 
interaction with spirits. Make a Social Challenge (retest with Empathy). Success gives 
the Garou a one-Trait bonus on all challenges involving spirits for the rest of the scene, 
plus an additional Trait per Mental Trait spent. 
Strike the Air: You become unable to strike an opponent, but also immune to 
being struck yourself, weaving and dodging and wearing out opponents in fruitless 
attacks. Spend one Willpower and make a Mental Challenge (retest with Dodge) 
against a target. If successful, you automatically dodge all attacks your opponent 
makes. The Gift is immediately canceled if you attack your opponent, even if someone 
else attacks on your behalf. Strike the Air can befuddle multiple opponents, but it 
requires a separate Willpower Trait and challenge for each one. 
Abvanceb Gifts 
Halo of the Sun: Blazing sunlight surrounds a Child of Gaia using this Gift, 
making many Wyrm-creatures flee and enhancing the Garou’s might against the rest. 
Spend one Gnosis. Blinding light surrounds you, and all direct attacks suffer a three- 
Trait penalty due to the visual overload. You inflict two extra levels of damage in 
brawling attacks, and all brawling damage is considered aggravated. Vampires within 
20 feet take aggravated damage as if exposed to direct pure sunlight. This Gift lasts for 
the rest of the scene. 
The Living Wood: You call on forest spirits to come to your aid, animating trees 
to restrain or fight foes. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Survival). Success animates one tree. The trees move with your own Dexterity-related 
Physical Traits and fight with your Physical Traits (and possibly more, up to as many 
as 15 total for particularly massive trees). Any other Traits are at the discretion of the 
Storyteller. 


flusic Gifts 
Faerie Light: You can conjure a small, floating sphere of light bright enough 
to illuminate a three-foot area. Make a Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas). 
Success lets you create a light anywhere within line of sight and move it at up to 10 
feet per turn. It lasts for one turn per Mental Trait you possess or until the end of the 
scene if you spend a Gnosis Trait. 
Glib Tongue: You can make listeners hear whatever they wish to hear, 
regardless of what you actually say. Glib Tongue cannot arouse support for specific 
intellectual propositions or courses of action, but is excellent for making a first 
impression, dodging a lie and the like. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge 
(retestwithExpression).TheGift lastsfor one turn per SocialTrait you possess, or until 
the end of the scene if you spend a Gnosis Trait. 
Howl of the Banshee: You emit a howl that inspires terror-stricken flight in 
others. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge against your target. Those who 
fail the challenge must flee for one turn per Social Trait you possess. The Gift does not 
distinguish between friend and foe. Your allies get a two-Trait bonus on this challenge 
but risk being overcome as well. 
Persuasion: As the Homid Gift. 
Resist Toxin: As the Bone Gnawer Gift. 
fntermebiate Gifts 
Balor’s Gaze: The name of this Gift reflects one of the Fianna’s ancient 
enemies; the Gift makes your eyes blaze livid red and inflicts pain on those you gaze 
at. Spend one Rage and one Gnosis. Make a Static Social Challenge against eight 
Traits. If successful, any target whom you gaze on must make a Willpower Challenge 
to avoid crippling pain. While tormented, he suffers the penalties as if Crippled (-5 
Traits on all challenges), regardless ofhis actual health levels. Targets who are already 
Crippled are considered Incapacitated. The effects of Balm’s Gaze wear off at the end 
of the scene. You may only affect one target at a time with this Gift. 
Faerie Kin: You can call on ancient pacts between the Fianna and the fae, 
summoning them to help (albeit not without questions or their own concerns) with 
a distinctive cry. Learning this Gift almost always involves a quest of some sort. Spend 
one or more Gnosis Traits and make a Social Challenge. Each success calls forth a fae 
of some sort. One Gnosis Trait produces a very weak creature; more Traits raise the 
capabilities of the creatures. If you fail the initial challenge, make two Simple Tests. 
If both fail, fae still come, but now they’re hostile. 
Phantasm: You create an unmoving illusion with cues for all senses. Such an 
illusion might be a wall, a statue or a garden. While the illusion will smell right and 
feel solid, it cannot be made to move naturally (a field of grain that is not bending 
under a strong wind can make some people very suspicious). Spend one Gnosis Trait 
for each 10-foot area to be covered by the illusion and make a Static Mental Challenge 
(retest with Expression) against six Traits. Anyone who doubts the illusion must make 
a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Awareness) against the creator’s Mental Trait 
total to see through it. 
Reshape Object: As the Homid Gift. 
138 
% 
i 


Aboanceb Gifts 
Call the Hunt: You can only use this Gift once per month and only in dire need. 
It summons forth the Great Huntsman of Celtic myth to harry and slay a great evil 
designated by the Fianna. This Gift requires a full hour be spent in chanting prior to 
use. Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge. If successful, the Huntsman 
appears with one hound, plus an additional hound for each Rage or Gnosis Trait you 
spend. If the evil is not worthy of the Huntsman’s attention, the summoner does not 
join the hunt, or you lose the challenge, the Huntsman hunts you instead. 
The Huntsman is a powerful Jaggling in the service of Stag, appearing as a tall, 
antlered man with 10 Willpower, 10 Rage, 5 Gnosis, 40 Essence, and the Charms 
Armor, Materialize and Tracking. His hounds are Gafflings, usually numbering nine, 
with coal-black coats and eyes of green fire. They can easily keep pace with a Garou 
in lupus form. They have 6 Willpower, 7 Rage, 2 Gnosis, 18 Essence, and the Charms 
Materialize and Tracking. 
Gift of the Spriggan: With this Gift, you can change your size, up to three times 
normal or down to the size of a small puppy. Spend one Gnosis and make a Physical 
Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge). The effects last for one hour or until you choose 
to cancel them. You gain three Strength-related Physical Traits (up to a maximum of 
10 extra Traits) per 100% increase in size. You retain your normal Traits while shrunk, 
but get a one-Trait bonus on stealth-related challenges per 25% reduction in size. 
Get of Fenris 
Wasic Gifts 
Halt the Coward’s Flight: You can slow a fleeing foe (though not a charging 
one), making it easier to catch. Spend one turn in concentration and make a Social 
Challenge (retest with Intimidation). If successful, the target’s speed is halved for the 
rest of the scene. 
Razor Claws: As the Ahroun Gift. 
Resist Pain: As the Philodox Gift. 
Snarl of the Predator: You emit a feral snarl to terrify opponents. Spend one 
full turn in preparation and make a Social Challenge (retest with Intimidation) against 
one or more targets. Those who fail suffer a one-Trait penalty on all challenges next 
turn, plus an additional Trait for each Mental Trait you spend. 
Visage of Fenris: You loom larger and more formidable than usual, command- 
ing respect from peers and fear from foes. Make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Intimidation) against one or more targets in the vicinity. To affect Garou ofhigher rank, 
spend one Mental Trait per Rank of difference: A Rank 1 Garou must win the Social 
Challenge and spend four Mental Traits to affect a Rank 5 Garou. Allies and peers see 
you as impressive and noble, and suffer a one-Trait penalty on Social Challenges 
against you. Enemies see you as particularly formidable, and suffer a one-Trait penalty 
on attacking challenges. The Gift lasts for the rest of the scene. 
fntermebiate Gifts 
Hero’s Stand: You draw on Gaia’s strength, fiiing yourself where you stand. 
You cannot retreat or move from the spot while Gaia’s power supports you. Make a 
Static Willpower Challenge against eight Traits. Success gives you two bonus Traits 
139 


_1/ on all Physical Challenges. You may not be surprised, and all attacks are considered 
frontal. You may not move until all foes have been defeated or fled. 
Might of Thor: You increase your strength tremendously, the better to slay your 
foes. Spend one Gnosis and one Rage and make a Static Willpower Challenge against 
eight Traits. Success doubles your Strength-related Physical Traits for one turn, plus 
an additional turn per Social Trait you spend. Afterward, you become substantially 
weakened: Halve your Physical Traits and Willpower until you rest for at least one 
hour. 
Scream of Gaia: You cry out in a scream infused with Rage and echoes ofGaia's 
pain; it batters foes and can even knock them down. Spend one Gnosis and make a 
Rage Challenge. Everyone within 50 feet is knocked down and suffers one level of 
bashing damage, plus another for each Social Trait you spend. This manifests as a 
distinct shockwave that rips through the area. 
Venom Blood: You transform your blood into a black, acidic bile that poisons 
all who come in contact with it. Spend one Rage and make a Physical Challenge 
(retest with Medicine). For the rest of the scene, anyone who comes in contact with 
your blood suffers a level of aggravated damage. 
Abuanccb Gifts 
Fenris' Bite: This Gift magnifies your bite, making it strong enough to mangle 
or even sever limbs. Spend one Rage and make a Physical Challenge (retest with 
Medicine). If it succeeds, your next bite attack on that target will (if the bite attack 
succeeds) mangle and disable a limb, inflicting an extra level of aggravated damage on 
top of any other damage the bite deals out. The limb is useless until the target can 
regenerate the damage; if the target is human or some other sort of being that lacks 
regenerative abilities, she becomes permanently disabled. After inflicting bite dam- 
age, make two Simple Tests. If the attacker wins both, the bite severs the limb 
completely. If the bite attack fails, the benefits of this Gift aren't held over for some 
future attack. 
Horde of Valhalla: You may use this Gift only if you are in good standing with 
your tribal totem and in great need of help, as it calls directly on Fenris to send great 
wolves. Spend one or more Rage and/or Gnosis Traits and make a Static Social 
Challenge (retest with Animal Ken) against six Traits. If successful, one great wolf, 
equivalent to the wolves of the Great Hunt, appears from the Umbra per Rage or 
Gnosis Trait spent. The wolves remain for the rest of the scene. They have 6 
Willpower, 7 Rage, 2 Gnosis, 18 Essence, and the Charms Materialize and Tracking. 
Glass Walkers 
nasic Gifts 
Control Simple Machine: You can command the spirits within simple devices 
and order levers to flip, doors to bolt or unbolt, pulleys to roll and so on. Spend one 
Willpower and make a Social Challenge (retest with Repair). You gain control of one 
device until the end of the scene. 
Cybersenses: You can exchange your normal senses with the sensory capabili- 
ties of a nearby machine, replacing normal hearing with radar, ordinary sight with 
ultraviolet sight or magnetic field sensing and the like. Spend one Gnosis Trait per 
sense affected, and thereafter make challenges using the new senses as Mental 
Challenges, retesting with Science. The effects last for the rest of the scene. 
140 


Diagnostics: You can tell what’s wrong with a machine just by looking at it, and 
can enlist the machine-spirit’s help infixing it. Make a Mental Challenge (retest with 
Crafts) to determine the problem. Spend one Gnosis to persuade the device’s spirit to 
help fix the problem. Most spirits are willing to do this, since they don’t want to inhabit 
junk, but not all automatically like Garou. (At the Storyteller’s discretion, this 
exchange can be roleplayed out.) Once persuaded, the spirit’s help halves the time to 
fix the device, and you receive a one-Trait bonus on the challenge to fix the device, 
plus an additional bonus Trait for each Social Trait spent. 
Power Surge: You persuade electricity#spirits to cease their usual activities, 
causing a blackout. Spend Gnosis according to the desired effect and make a Social 
Challenge (retest with Science). One success suffices to black out a single room; two 
can black out a home or floor of an office building; three can black out an entire block 
of residences or even the largest skyscraper; four can black out several blocks; five can 
black out an entire neighborhood. 
Trick Shot: This Gift used to be obscure, but has become increasingly popular 
in modern times. You can perform brilliant feats of marksmanship, such as shooting 
a weapon out of an opponent’s hand and firing down the barrel of an enemy’s gun. Trick 
Shot cannot directly harm an opponent, though it can really mess up a gun, and only 
works on rifles and pistols. Add your permanent Glory rating to your Trait total when 
performing particularly exuberant shooting tricks. It can inflict indirect damage on 
opponents, by (for instance) shooting the rope that holds achandelierover an enemy’s 
head, but will not work for any shot that aims to put a bullet into a living target. The 
effect is permanent. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Attunement: As the Bone Gnawer Gift. 
Control Complex Machine: This Gift builds on the principles ofControl Simple 
Machine, but applies to much more sophisticated devices, including electronic 
equipment. Spend one Willpower and make a Static Social Challenge (retest with 
Science) against a number of Traits depending on the device’s complexity. Most 
computers have a difficulty of eight Traits; the Storyteller can modify this up or down 
for special cases. This Gift lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Doppelganger: You take on the exact likeness of another person, wolf or Garou. 
Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Performance). This Gift 
doesn’t duplicate Traits, Abilities or Gifts, but does include voice, posture and scent. 
The effects last one day, plus an additional day for each Mental Trait spent. 
Elemental Favor: You persuade, beg, threaten or cajole an urban elemental 
into destroying its earthly shell. A glass sheet might explode at foes, a door refuse to 
open even if unlocked, a car’s brakes suddenly melt or fail, and so on. Make a Static 
Social Challenge (retest with Subterfuge) against the spirit’s Gnosis. The Storyteller 
and player must work out the precise effects; most severe damage will be indirect. 
Abuanceb Gifts 
Chaos Mechanics: Glass Walkers respect both the Wyld and the Weaver, and 
this Gift most fruitfully combines the power of the two. It infuses you with the power 
to overcome normal limits the Changing Breeds confront, drawing on primal energy 
and mystical form simultaneously. You may spend Rage and Gnosis in the same turn 
without penalty. Among other things, this means that you can use Rage actions to 
activate fetishes and use Gifts requiring Gnosis all in the same turn, as long as the Gifts 
’ 
141 


don’t require a full turn or more to become active. In addition, you can take Rage- 
fueled actions in the same turn as stepping sideways, provided the Umbral crossing 
isn’t delayed and you succeed in the necessary challenges. This Gift is always in effect. 
Summon Net-Spider: You can summon a Net-Spider, a very potent Weaver 
spirit, and use it to gain control over any computer. The Spider can modify or destroy 
all data in the system and extensively manipulate its physical features: turning power 
on and off, overloading circuits and so on. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Social 
Challenge (retest with Computer) against eight Traits. If successful, the Net-Spider 
appears and heeds your commands. Halve the difficulty of all computer-related 
challenges, in addition to whatever deviltry you and Net-Spider cook up. The Net- 
Spider remains for the rest of the scene. The Net-Spider has 5 Willpower, 4 Rage, 6 
Gnosis, 12 Essence. 
Re8 Talons 
fiusic Gifts 
Beast Speech: As the Galliard Gift. 
Beastmind: You can suppress the higher mental functions of your victim, 
reducing the target to an animallike condition. Make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Empathy). If successful, the victim can only obey base instincts for one turn. 
Scent of Running Water: As the Ragabash Gift. 
Sense of the Prey: As the Ragabash Gift. 
Wolf at the Door: It’s not always necessary or even desirable to slaughter all 
human opponents. This Gift enhances your ability to inculcate fear of the wild, making 
humans loath to enter or interfere with nature. You must make eye contact with the 
target (but can be in any form while doing so). Make a Social Challenge (retest with 
Primal-Urge). If you’re successful, the victim is cowed for one full day, plus an additional 
day per Mental Trait you spend. During this time, the victim must make a Static 
Willpower Challenge against the Garou’s Gnosis or Social Traits, whichever total is 
higher, to leave home and may not go near anything resembling a forest without 
spending a Willpower Trait. All the time the victim is away from home, he feels shaky 
and fearful, suffering a two-Trait penalty to all Mental and Social Challenges. This Gift 
works on Kinfolk, mages, ghouls and other supernaturally enhanced mortals, but they 
get a two-Trait bonus on the initial challenge. This Gift does not function on Garou. 
Intermebiute Gifts 
Elemental Favor: As the Glass Walker Gift, except that the Red Talons’ 
version is taught by natural elementals and affects one of the four classic elements - 
earth, air, fire or water. 
Trackless Waste: This Gift enables you to make sure humans get lost and stay 
that way. Compasses malfunction, maps mislead and landmarks appear to move 
unpredictably. You must know the territory to use this Gift. Spend one Gnosis and 
make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge) against six Traits. If 
successful, the Gift “scrambles” an area two miles in radius, plus an additional two 
miles for each Mental Trait you spend. The Gift functions on werewolves as well as 
humans, but Garou can overcome their confusion with a Mental Challenge (retest 
with Primal-Urge) against the Garou who used Trackkss Waste. (Do this as a Static 
Challenge if the Gift-user isn’t on the scene.) Trackless Waste’s 
effects last for four 
hours. 
, 
142 


Gorge: Wild wolves eat as much as possible when food is available, storing it [% 
for times when meals are scarce. This Gift-allows you to do the same thing on the 
spiritual level, building up Rage, Gnosis or Willpower for times of need. Upon learning 
this Gift, choose one Trait - 
Rage, Gnosis or Willpower - 
to store. Thereafter, you 
can accumulate three more Traits in that characteristic than your permanent rating. 
Extra Traits are spent as usual, and Traits over the character’s maximum do not count 
in challenges. You must learn this Gift multiple times to store multiple characteristics, 
and may use this on a particular Trait only once (you may not Gorge three times on 
Rage and have nine extra Rage Traits). 
Quicksand: You can turn nearby ground into a sticky entangling mass. Spend 
one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge). Success changes 
a spot of ground 10 feet in radius into a quicksandlike morass; you can increase the 
radius by 10 feet for each Mental Trait spent. Anyone but its creator moves through 
Quicksand at half walking speed, suffers a one-Trait penalty on all combat challenges 
and cannot execute any combat maneuvers requiring special movement. Quicksand 
lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Curse of Lycaon: You can strike at human targets and turn them into wolves 
or force Garou into lupus form. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Gnosis Challenge 
against the target’s Willpower. Success lets you force a werewolf into lupus form for one 
day or transform a human being into a wolf, body and mind, permanently. 
Gaia’s Vengeance: You call to the spirits of the surrounding forest to attack 
intruders. They all respond as best they can: Rocks roll down, vines lash, water sucks 
victims under, and so on. Spend one Gnosis and one Rage, and make a Static Social 
Challenge (retest with Primal-Urge) against the local Gauntlet rating. Work out the 
effects with your Storyteller, keeping in mind the limits of the spirits and their material 
shells in the area. 
Shabow Eorbs 
6asic Gifts 
Aura of Confidence: You present yourself confidently and with a manner that 
suggests the obviousness of your superiority, repelling efforts to find flaws in your 
thoughts, read your aura or otherwise intrude on your mind. This Gift doesn’t prevent 
supernatural efforts (such as the Discipline Auspex), though it may hamper them (at 
the Storyteller’s discretion). Make a Social Challenge (retest with Subterfuge). If 
successful, you automatically win all ties on normal Mental and Social Challenges 
intended to probe your mind, examine your aura, etc. The effects lasts for one scene 
or one hour. 
Clap of Thunder: You can slam your hands together to create a stunning 
thunderclap. Spend one Gnosis and strike your hands together. Everyone within 10 
feet must succeed in a Willpower Challenge to avoid being stunned by the tremendous 
sound and incapable of acting for one turn. Those with supernaturally attuned hearing 
may even be temporarily struck deaf. You must be in Homid, Glabro or Crinos form 
to use this Gift. 
Fatal Flaw: You can intuit a target’s most exploitable weakness, gaining an 
advantage incombat. You must concentrate on studying the target for a full turn. Make 
143 
i 


a Mental Challenge (retest with Empathy). If successful, you inflict an extra level of 
damage on the target for the rest of the current fight. Spend two additional Mental 
Traits for knowledge of some additional weakness (which does not provide a damage 
bonus), or four additional Traits for a fairly complete inventory of the target’s combat 
weaknesses. 
Luna’s Armor: As the Children of Gaia Gift. 
Seizing the Edge: Shadow Lords don’t believe in even contests; where there is 
no winner, everyone loses. This Gift draws on that conviction to give you an extra 
edge. Spend one Gnosis. For the rest of the scene, you have a number of Traits based 
on your Rank that you may add to your total for the purposes of comparing on ties. 
These Traits may be switched between the three Attributes (Physical, Social, 
Mental), but may not split up. There must be a direct confrontation to use this Gift 
(such as a combat or a staredown). Static Challenges to activate Gifts or to use 
Abilities do not benefit from this. 
fntermebiate Gifts 
Direct the Storm: Frenzy in one packmate endangers the whole pack. With 
this Gift, you can partially direct a frenzied packmate, putting the loss of self-control 
to use. Spend one Gnosis and make a Willpower Challenge. If successful, you can 
designate a target for the frenzied packmate to attack. This Gift does work on Garou 
suffering from Thrall of the Wyrm. If your initial challenge fails, make a Static Rage 
Challenge against seven Traits. Losing this challenge means you lapse into frenzy. 
Open Wounds: You can curse the next wound you inflict so that it bleeds 
profusely. Spend one Gnosis and make a Physical Challenge (retest withMedicine). If 
your next attack inflicts any damage, the wound continues to bleed, the target 
suffering one level of lethal damage the following turn, plus another on successive 
turns, at a rate of one extra turn per Mental Trait you spend. When you stop inflicting 
damage, the target may start healing the wounds. 
Paralyzing Stare: You glare at a target, and something in your eyes rouses buried 
fears within her, freezing her in place. You must concentrate on the target for one turn. 
Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Intimidation). Success 
freezes the target in place for one turn, plus one turn for each Mental Trait you spend. 
The target must be able to see your eyes and facial expression. Attacking the target 
dispels the Gift’s effects. 
Strength of the Dominator: With this Gift, you siphon off a target’s anger to 
feed your own. Make a Static Social Challenge (retest with Intimidation) against six 
Traits. With success, the victim loses three Rage Traits over the next three turns. You 
gain those Traits at the same rate and can spend them as usual. This Gift can only affect 
a particular target once per scene. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Obedience: You take on a supernatural presence to become the ultimate alpha. 
Others feel compelled to follow your orders. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static 
Social Challenge (retest WithLeadership) against eight Traits. Anyone in the vicinity 
must make a Willpower Challenge to avoid the compulsion to obey. Spend Gnosis to 
determine the degree of obedience. One Trait allows you to give orders that others 
wouldn’t normally mind following (even if they wouldn’t choose to do those things 
now). Three Traits requires others to treat you as their alpha and fight for you. Five 
Traits, and you can lead others into the Abyss or other virtually suicidal actions. 
144 


Shadow Pack: You can summon up shadow-duplicates of yourself in battle. [s 
These shadow-wolves resemble you and share some of your characteristics. Make a 
Static Gnosis Challenge against eight Traits and spend one or more Gnosis Traits. 
Each Trait summons one shadow-duplicate, which has your Attributes and Abilities 
but may not use Gnosis, Willpower or any of your Gifts. Each shadow-duplicate has 
just one health level so that most major damage destroys it. Surviving duplicates fade 
away at the end of the scene. 
Silent Stribers 
aasic Gifts 
Blissful Ignorance: As the Ragabash Gift. 
Messenger’s Fortitude: You can run at full speed for up to three days without 
requiringfood, water or rest. When you reach your destination, you have 10 minutes 
to complete your business before you keel over and must sleep. Spend one Gnosis. 
Doing anything but running cancels the Gift, and you must sleep for as long as you’ve 
been running. Spend an additional Gnosis Trait to let another individual share in the 
Gift. 
Sense Wyrm: As the Metis Gift. 
Silence: You can move with the silence that has made the Striders famous. 
Make a Physical Challenge (retest with Stealth). All others trying to hear you suffer a 
one-Trait penalty, plus an additional one-Trait penalty per Mental Trait you spend. 
This Gift lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Speed of Thought: You can double your running speed. Spend one Gnosis; the 
effects are automatic and last for the rest of the scene. 
fntermebiate (jifts 
Adaptation: You become temporarily immune to harm from poison, disease 
and naturally occurring environmental extremes - 
pressure, temperature, atmo- 
spheric conditions, etc. This Gift doesn’t protect against hazardous situations like 
falling or Wyrm emanations, only against circumstances that prevail throughout the 
area. Spend one Gnosis and make a Physical Challenge (retest with Survival). Success 
allows you to Adapt for one hour. 
Attunement: As the Bone Gnawer Gift, except that you must decide it 
whether it functions in the city or the wilderness when you learn it. The wilderness 
version uses a Mental Challenge, retesting with Suwiwal. 
Great Leap: You can make amazing jumps. Spend one Willpower and make a 
Physical Challenge (retest with Athletics). Success lets you jump 100 feet (vertically 
or horizontally), plus an additional 100 feet per Mental Trait spent. 
Speed Beyond Thought: You can run at 10 times normal land speed, for up to 
eight hours, as long as you continue to concentrate exclusively on running. When you 
stop, you must immediately eat or face frenzy from hunger. Spend one Gnosis and make 
a Physical Challenge (retest with Athletics) to activate the Gift. 
Gate of the Moon: You can create a specialized Moon Bridge to take you 
directly to where you want to go, without perceptible delay, as long as there’s at least 
a sliver of moon visible. Spend one Gnosis Trait for every hundred miles you wish to 
?45 


travel. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas) against five Traits for 
less than a hundred miles, six Traits for up to 250 miles, seven Traits for up to 500 miles, 
eight Traits for up to 1000 miles or nine Traits for longer distances. You arrive and 
spend one turn disoriented from travel, unless you spend an additional Mental Trait. 
If the challenge fails, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, you materialize miles away 
in any direction.. . including straight up. 
Reach the Umbra: You can step in and out of the Umbra at will, needing 
neither a reflective surface nor even conscious effort. No challenge is required to enter 
or leave the Umbra, and you rarely risk getting stuck along the way. You receive a two- 
Trait bonus on all challenges to enter or leave Umbral realms. You still cannot spend 
Rage in the same turn that you step sideways. 
Siloer Fangs 
Oasic Gifts 
Empathy: Leadership requires understanding and the ability to make followers 
feel that their concerns matter as well as the ability to command. You can examine 
your subjects’ expectations of you that you might live up to them. Spend one Gnosis 
and make a Mental Challenge (retest with Empathy) against the pack or other group 
of followers (See the rules regarding mob scenes, pg. 192). If you win the challenge, 
you understand the group’s desires in a broad sense: attack or mediation, harsh 
punishment or clemency, etc. Spend one Mental Trait for a more detailed sense and 
a second Mental Trait to understand desires that haven’t been articulated. Note that 
this doesn’t point to the wisest or most rational decision, only to the most popular one. 
Falcon’s Grasp: You can keep a literal grip on power - 
your hands or jaws 
tighten in a death+grip almost impossible to escape. Spend one Rage to affect hands 
or jaws, two Rage to affect both. For the rest of the scene, you receive a three-Trait 
bonus on all challenges involving the affected parts in grappling and biting. This Gift 
does not inflict extra damage. 
Lambent Flame: You body flickers with silver illumination. Spend one 
Willpower Trait to ignite the light, which illuminates the area within 100 feet of you. 
Hand-to-hand attacks suffer a one-Trait penalty (getting close tends to muddle vision) 
while ranged attacks get a one-Trait bonus. The light inflicts no damage. Lambent 
Fhme lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Luna’s Armor: As the Children of Gaia Gift. 
Sense Wyrm: As the Metis Gift. 
fntermebiate Gifts 
Silver Claws: As the Ahroun Gift. 
Mastery: You can command other Garou to do your bidding - 
even Black 
Spiral Dancers. Makea SocialChallenge (retestwithLeackrshig). Ifsuccessful, youcan 
give one non-suicidal command, plus an additional command for each Mental Trait 
spent. The target must obey each command in turn for one turn, plus an additional turn 
for Mental Trait spent. That is, if you spend two Mental Traits, you can give three 
commands, and the target must follow each one for a minimum of three turns apiece. 
If you spend no Mental Traits, you can give one command, and the target must follow 
it for one turn. 
146 


Mindblock: You maintain constant mental defenses at peak levels. You receive 
a minimum three-Trait bonus on all efforts to mentally attack or control your mind 
(such as mind reading, mental illusions, possessions) -you 
defend with 10 Traits or 
your normal Mental Trait total + 3, whichever is higher. Mindblock is always in effect. 
It does not extend to powers that affect emotions. 
Wrath of Gaia: You display the full terrible glory that is your birthright as one 
of Gaia’s chosen warriors. You can cow minions of the Wyrm into helpless flight. 
Spend one Gnosis and make a Social Challenge (retest with Intimidation). If you are 
successful, all Wyrm-minions within line of sight must make a Willpower Challenge 
to remain, then make a second Willpower Challenge to attack you. Wrath of Gaia 
remains manifest for the rest of the scene. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Luna’s Avenger: Your whole body, whatever form it’s currently in, becomes 
living silver. Concentrate for one full turn and spend one Gnosis. The transformation 
is automatic. While silver, you are immune to the effects of silver weapons; all damage 
you inflict is aggravated to other Garou and several Changing Breeds. When you make 
a successful strike, make a Simple Test; success means you inflict a second level of 
aggravated damage.You gain the Physical Traits Rugged x 2 and one additional health 
level while the Gift lasts. Lua’s Avenger remains in effect for the rest of the scene. 
Paws of the Newborn Cub: By snarling and glaring at an opponent, you can 
cow it into losing the use of its supernatural powers, leaving behind only mundane 
Abilities and Attributes. Spend one Gnosis and make a contest of the your Gnosis 
against the target’s Willpower. If successful, you can strip the target ofallspecial powers 
- 
shapeshifting, Gifts, Disciplines, etc. - 
for one turn. 
Uktena 
Wasic Gifts 
Sense Magic: You candiscem the magical emanations of Garou Gifts, vampiric 
powers, human magic and the like. Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with 
Enigmas) against the mental total of the magic’s creator. You enjoy a one-Trait bonus 
for familiar magic and highly obvious effects, and a two-Trait bonus on Garou Gifts. 
Very unfamiliar magic imposes a one-Trait penalty, or even more at the Storyteller’s 
discretion for particularly alien manifestations. You can only recognize broad catego- 
ries, including whether you’ve encountered this sort of thing before: “Gaian” and 
“blood magic” are about as precise as this Gift allows. The Gift covers all magic within 
10 feet of you, plus an additional 10 feet per Mental Trait spent. 
Shroud: You create a field of inky blackness which only your own eyes can 
pierce. Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Gnosis Challenge, the difficulty 
depending on the time of day: three Traits at night or in twilight, six Traits indoors, 
nine Traits outside in bright sunlight. Success blacks out a 10-foot-square area, plus 
another 10-foot square area per Mental Trait spent. The area can be anywhere within 
your line ofsight. The metis Gift Eyes ofthe Cat can see through the resulting darkness, 
which lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Spirit of the Bird: Few Garou attack from above, which is precisely why the 
Uktena developed this Gift. It allows you to hover, fly and float. Spend one Gnosis. 
147 


ii------ 
You can fly at up to 20 mph, and hover or float as you desire. You suffer a one-Trait 
penalty on all combat maneuvers. This Gift remains active for one hour. 
Spirit of the Fish: You can breathe underwater, and can swim as fast as you can 
run in Hispo form. Spend one Gnosis and make a Physical Challenge (retest with 
Animal Ken). The effects last for one hour, plus an additional hour per Mental Trait 
spent. 
y 
Spirit Speech: As the Theurge Gift. 
Inter mebiate Gifts 
Banish Totem: By speaking words of forbiddance, you can cut off a pack from 
contact with or aid from its totem. The resulting spiritual void also interferes with pack 
maneuvers and other joint actions. You must concentrate on the totem and the ties 
to break for one full turn and must know which totem the pack follows. Spend one 
Gnosis and one Willpower, and make a Static Gnosis Challenge against the pack's 
combined Totem scores (maximum of 10 Traits). If you succeed, the pack loses all 
Traits associated with its totem and cannot use pack tactics and the like. The Gift lasts 
until the end of the scene or until you are knocked out or killed. 
Call Elemental: You can summon forth one of the four classic elementals 
(earth, air, fire or water). You must learn the Gift separately for each type of elemental. 
Spend one Gnosis and make a Static Gnosis Challenge against the local Gauntlet 
rating to summon the elemental. Make a Social Challenge against the elemental's 
Gnosis to persuade it to look favorably on you. The elemental vanishes at the end of 
the scene, in either case. 
Hand of the Earth Lords: You draw on the land's innate power to move a single 
object weighing up to a thousand pounds by force ofwill alone. An air elemental and 
an earth elemental must work together to teach this Gift. Spend one Gnosis and make 
a Physical Challenge. You must concentrate on the object at all times while the Gift 
is active, and can move the object at up to 20 mph (breaking concentration means 
dropping the object, which can be disastrous). The Gift remains active for one turn, 
plus an additional turn per Mental Trait spent. 
Invisibility: You vanish completely from sight. You must concentrate on 
staying invisible, moving no faster than half your normal walking speed and doing 
nothing to attract attention to yourself (such as attacking). Spend one Gnosis and 
make a Static Mental Challenge against four Traits if already concealed, six Traits if 
on open ground, or nine Traits if in plain sight of hostile observers. Anyone looking 
for you must win at a Mental Challenge while you enjoy a three-Trait bonus for the 
purpose. Remove this bonus if you do something that clearly draws attention: entering 
combat, slamming doors, etc. lnvisibility lasts for the rest of the scene. Cross your arms 
over your chest to indicate that you are not visible to others. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Fabric of the Mind: As the Galliard Gift. 
Fetish Doll: Sympathetic magic is as old as civilization, if not older, and the 
Uktena use it whenever they feel the end justifies this potentially abhorrent means. 
With this Gift, you construct a specially made doll with a piece of the victim (lock of 
hair, nail clippings) or something belonging to the victim (piece of clothing, jewelry), 
and then use the doll to inflict harm on the target from a distance. It takes one week 
to construct and enchant the doll once you have a piece of the victim or some 
important possession. Make a Mental Challenge (retest with Crafts) to complete the 
' 
148 


making. Once it’s complete, make a Static Mental Challenge against the victim’s 
Willpower while mutilating or damaging the doll. Success indicates the victim suffers 
a level ofaggravated damage (soakable as per any ability the victim has to do so). Spend 
additional Mental Traits to inflict additional damage. The doll is destroyed and 
rendered useless once it transfers 10 levels of damage. If any challenge to inflict harm 
fails, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the doll is immediately destroyed. 
Wenbigo 
Wasic Gifts 
Call the Breeze: You can call up a chilling wind of up to 20 mph that you can 
direct at will. It freezes unprepared targets and disperses or redirects clouds of gas or 
vapor, swarms of insects and the like. You simply whistle to call the breeze. Unprepared 
targets suffer a one-Trait penalty to perception challenges and challenges involving 
rapid motion. The breeze lasts for the rest of the scene. 
Camouflage: You blend in with your surroundings, becoming very difficult to 
see. Spend two turns concentrating to camouflage yourself. You receive a three-Trait 
bonus on all challenges by others attempting to find you. This Gift always works in 
northern wilderness; how much it helps in other environments depends upon the 
presence of useful features like chill winds or evergreen trees and upon Wendigo’s 
sense of how deserving you are. Camouflage lasts as long as you wish. 
Cutting Wind: This conjures up a more chilling wind than Call the Breeze, one 
that can be used as a weapon. To use this Gift, spend a Willpower; the wind comes 
automatically. Make a Physical Challenge to set the wind’s direction. Anyone struck 
by it suffers a two-Trait penalty to all challenges the first turn they’re in the blast and 
aone-trait penalty the second turn. The wind can push targets off ledges, into pits and 
otherwise knock them over. The wind’s range is 20 yards and is treated as if it were a 
firearm. It lasts for one turn, plus one turn per Mental Trait you spend. 
Resist Pain: As the Philodox Gift. 
Speak with Wind Spirits: You can call up wind-spirits for advice and guidance 
and ask them a single question, which must concern the immediate area. (You can ask 
about more distant matters, but wind-spirits don’t have long attention spans.) You can 
automatically speak with wind-spirits while in the Umbra; calling them in the physical 
world requires spending one Gnosis. In either case, make a Social Challenge (retest 
with Expression). Success lets you obtain a generally correct answer, albeit a very 
general one. Spend one additional Mental Trait to clear things up a bit, or two Mental 
Traits to get a precise and focused answer. 
lntermebiate Gifts 
Bloody Feast: Great Wendigo is a cannibalistic spirit and teaches his children 
how to gain strength from enemies’ flesh and blood. You must bite and taste blood 
(inflict at least one health level of damage). The target must be something that bleeds; 
toxic blood or no blood at all makes this Gift useless. Make a contest of your Gnosis 
against the target’s Physical Traits. If successful, you gains one extra Tough or Ferocious 
Physical Trait for every two health levels ofdamage the bite inflicts, up to a maximum 
of five bonus Traits. The bonus lasts for one turn, plus one turn per Mental Trait you 
spend. Flesh and blood can be addictive, and you must test for frenzy the turn after 
activating Bloody Feast. Depending on the target, certain uses of this Gift may violate 
the Litany. Obviously, remember the Rules of Safety and don’t get carried away. 
I49 


I 
Call the Cannibal Spirit: By dancing under the night sky, you can summon an 
avatar of Wendigo and direct it to hunt one of your enemies. You must possess a piece 
of the target whose heart you want Wendigo to devour. Spend three full turns in a 
summoning dance. Spend one Rage and one Gnosis, then make a Static Social 
Challenge against eight Traits. Success summons a Wendigo-spirit, who pursues the 
target until it can engage in combat. If the summoning fails, make two Simple Tests. 
If both fail, the Wendigo-spirit turns on you, as it will if somehow prevented from 
attacking the target. 
Mighty Wendigo appears as a blue humanoid with claws and fangs, blazing eyes 
and black stumps for feet. It can run through the sky at 50 mph to find its prey. It has 
7 Willpower, 10 Rage, 5 Gnosis, 32 Essence, and the Charms Blast (Ice), Create Wind, 
Freeze, Matelialize, Tracking. 
Chill of Early Frost: You call down mystic chill from Great Wendigo, freezing 
the area and everyone in it. Spend one Gnosis and make a Mental Challenge against 
four Traits for an area already in deep winter, six Traits for most climates, or nine Traits 
for an area in hot summer. Success reduces the temperature to somewhat below 
freezing, or down 20 degrees if it’s already below freezing, in an area five miles in radius. 
Everyone without a natural coat offur takes a two-Trait penalty to all challenges. Pipes 
burst, roads freeze, and other suitable consequences decided by the Storyteller take 
effect. The Gift lasts for one hour, plus one hour per additional Mental Trait spent. 
Wisdom of the Ancient Ways: As the Philodox Gift. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Heart of Ice: With this Gift, you can call down Wendigo’s curse on your 
enemies. By whispering your victim’s name to the wind, you direct Wendigo’s 
attention to him, and his internal organs begin to freeze. Spend one Gnosis and make 
a Static Mental Challenge against your target’s Willpower. With success, you inflict 
a single level of aggravated damage. With each succeeding test, you can continue to 
inflict further levels of damage (one per turn), literally freezing your victim to death. 
If you lose a test, no more damage may be inflicted on the target for the rest of the scene. 
Invoke the Spirits of the Storm: You can summon almost any arctic weather 
you want: tornado, fog, blizzard, thunderstorm, etc. Spend one Gnosis and make a 
Static Willpower Challenge against a variable number of traits, from four Traits for 
minor changes (light wind to stiff breeze, high clouds to overcast) up to nine Traits or 
even more for radical changes (blizzard to calm clear skies). The storm covers an area 
10 miles in radius with success. If you call up thunderstorms, spend a Gnosis each time 
you wish to launch lightning bolts against your enemies: PhysicalChallenge to hit, 10 
levels of aggravated. 
Rites 
Rites are just what they sound like: rituals that Garou perform individually or in 
a group. Rites remind Garou of their heritage and commemorate important activities 
in the present moment. They bind the often-fractious members of the Garou Nation 
together in common cause, at least for a while. Rites also unite Garou with the spirit 
world, drawing on the terms established long ago in the great Pact, when the spirits 
swore to give the Garou power in exchange for the Garou’s loyalty and service. 
Rites also provide ways for Garou to identify and build up individual strengths; 
while the principles of the rites remain constant, there’s room for innovation and 
refinement in presentation along with the occasional discovery of a new rite. Each 
150 


\ ‘4 
tribe does the rites a bit differentlv: so does each sent. and each elder within it. \k 
,. 
A
I
 
Storytellers should reward players who play out the details of how their characters 
practice the rites as these occasions are important anddeserve attention in achronicle. 
Rites are both religious and magical events, and they serve both social and 
mystical purposes. Most rites work equally well on either side of the Gauntlet. Garou 
tradition groups the rites for teaching purposes, presenting cubs with categories which 
(hopefully) make sense and help tie together related concepts, including accord, 
caem, death, mystic, punishment, renown, seasonal and minor rites. Werewolves can 
learn any rite as long as their Rank allows it and as long as they find a teacher. 
Traditions about auspice make some rites more expected than others (see below), but 
even so there’s a great deal of flexibility. In happier times, elders were finicky about 
what they taught to whom. Now, with many younger Garou ignoring rites altogether, 
many elders are almost pathetically grateful for students (though of course they seldom 
admit it). 
derforming u Rite 
Ritemasters lead Garou in the rites. These are often grand ceremonies involving 
extensive preparation and socializing; almost all rites require at least three participants 
apart from those specifically designed for individuals. Tradition-minded septs frown 
on performing rites away from the caem and group. The rite takes a minimum of 10 
minutes for Basic Rites, 30 minutes for Intermediate Rites and one hour for Advanced 
Rites. Minor rates take two to five minutes. In almost all cases, the celebrants must use 
trinkets or special materials, and rites always require concentration and skill. 
The ritemaster bears responsibility for seeing that everyone does their part in the 
rite. The specific challenges appear in the description for each rite. In general, every 
five participants beyond the minimum required give the ritemaster a +1 Trait bonus 
on relevant challenges. 
Learning u R i t e  
A werewolf who wants to learn a rite must approach an elder who already knows 
it and negotiate the terms of instruction. This almost always includes payment in the 
form of talens (at least one per level of the Gift) and may also include other services 
- 
fresh meat for three months, completing a quest, answering a specific question 
about a rival sept, etc. Roleplaying out the details is good, but feel free to fall back on 
a Social Challenge. If the elder wins, success is some other specific object or deed the 
student must provide; if the student wins, the elder is favorably inclined and requires 
nothing more. 
Learning a rite takes time. The student must have at least one level of Rituals 
Ability for Basic Rites, two for Intermediate Rites or three for Advanced Rites. He 
must also spend at least three days studying a minor rite, one week for a Basic Rite, 
three weeks for an Intermediate Rite or five weeks for an Advanced Rite. 
Characters can begin play knowing rites with the Rites Background. Once they 
enter play, only roleplaying and time let them learn more; experience points won’t buy 
rites. Characters can try to enact rites they’ve participated in but which they don’t 
know - 
all challenges suffer a three-Trait penalty and twice whatever Gnosis 
expenditure is required. Elders often see the effort as impertinent even when it works. 


c 
Attempting an unlearned rite in an elder’s presence may cost the Garou Honor or 
Wisdom; failing it certainly will. 
Not all Garou have the same aptitude for the Great Rites. Theurges and Philodox 
most often excel at them, and their mentors usually groom them for the task. Garou 
of other auspices must show great promise at performing the minor rites and as 
participants to get the same attention; they’re most likely to learn the rites that 
enhance their auspice duties and celebrate the sorts of victories they most often 
achieve. Individual packs without a big sept spread the duties around more since 
specialization is the luxury of the many. 
Rites Chart 
Type 
Challenge 
Difficulty 
Accord 
Social 
7 Traits 
Caern 
Gnosis 
7 Traits 
Death 
Social 
8 Traits, minus Rank 
Mystic 
Social 
7 Traits 
Punishment 
7 Traits 
Renown 
Social 
7 Traits 
Seasonal 
Social 
8 Traits, minus caern level 
Minor 
none 
none 
Always retest with Rituals. 
Rites of Accorb 
These rites restore Garou or a place to harmony and balance with Gaia. They 
purify and renew their subjects in a symbolic rebirth. 
The ritemaster must possess a talen, fetish or some piece of Gaia never touched 
either by minions of the Wyrm or by human hands. Make a Static Social Challenge 
against seven Traits unless otherwise stated. 
Wasic Rites 
Rite of Cleansing: This rite purifies a person, place or object so that it can be 
used without fear of Wyrm-taint. The most common form of the rite requires the 
ritemaster to inscribe a circle on the earth around the target, walking counterclock- 
wise while holding a smoldering branch or torch, then to use a branch (preferably 
willow or birch) dipped in pure water or snow to sprinkle the target. The other 
participants produce eerie howls to intimidate and frighten away the tainting force. 
This rite works best at dawn but can be performed at any time. This rite can affect more 
than one target at a time, at a cost of one Gnosis Trait for each target beyond the first. 
The difficulty varies based on the level of taint, from four Traits for minor contami- 
nation from weak Wyrm servants up to nine Traits or more for extensive warping in 
the hands of powerful minions. Reduce the difficulty total by one Trait when 
performing the rite at dawn. This rite doesn’t heal wounds and other damage, and does 
not remove the soul-deep corruption common to fomori, vampires, Black Spiral 
Dancers and the like. 
152 


Rite of Contrition: This is an apology to offended spirits or Garou to defuse 
tensions before battle erupts. The transgressor drops to his belly and slidesforward; the 
ritemaster may also do the same, or simply whine and lick his paws or hands. More 
knowledgeable performance (with higher levels of Rituals knowledge) allow lesser 
gestures of repentance like a bowed head to suffice. The offending Garou must give a 
smallgift to his target or asmallartifact ofsome aspect ofthespirit toanoffendedspirit. 
The difficulty is the current Rage of the target. Success counts as a gracious apology. 
Spend one or more Social Traits to strengthen the effects: One Social Trait heals any 
single breach of the peace short of major Litany violations, two Social Traits cover 
most short-term conflicts, and three Social Traits cover long-standing grievances. 
Werewolves who refuse to accept the Rite ofContrition suffer social sanction as custom 
and the spirits regard it as very important. 
Rite of Renunciation: Garou seldom feel the need for this rite, but it’s very 
important on the occasions when it matters at all. With this rite, a Garou gives up her 
auspice and joins another. It must be performed during the phase of the moon she 
wants to adopt. The usual form of this rite calls for pouring water from a silver basin 
exposed to moonlight over the supplicant, symbolically washing away the old life. See 
“Renunciation,” p. 184, for more details about the social consequences. 
Caern Rites 
Wasic Rites 
Moot Rite: A moot cannot begin until this rite isdone. It refills the caem with 
Gnosis, while the Master of the Howl leads participants in an extended unified howl. 
The nature of the howl expresses the concerns of the tribe and sept, identifying it to 
anyone listening. This rite must be performed at least once a month to keep a caem 
consecrated. During the course of the moot, participants must sacrifice a combined 
total of at least five Gnosis Traits to keep the caem charged. 
Rite of the Opened Caern: Caems are sacred places, each dedicated to a 
particular totem and maintained to serve a specific purpose of some sort, such as 
Wisdom, Strength, etc. Knowledgeable Garou can “open” the caem, tapping its power 
to assist them in some specific task. It’s never undertaken lightly, or shouldn’t be: 
Caems do not idly give up their power, and the energy itselfcan be difficult to control. 
Each caem sets its own conditions for the ritemaster. An Enigmas caem may require 
the ritemaster to walk a maze and solve a riddle the totem poses, while a caern of Rage 
may require the ritemaster to shift into Crinos form and make and then destroy a 
symbol of each enemy who’s slain a sept member in the last year (or last hundred years). 
Whatever the required actions, they must show the ritemaster to be competent at the 
caem’s purpose. 
See “Caems” for more details. 
Jnfermebiate Rites 
The Badger’s Burrow: Caem guardians gradually become intimately united 
with their bawn, closely enough to sense everythinggoing on within its boundaries. 
In this rite, the ritemaster peers intently into a bowl of water, pool of ink or other 
suitable reflective surface while pouring a small amount of witch hazel, urine or other 
strongly scented astringent onto theground. Participating Garou encircle the ritemaster 
and growl softly. Some younger Garou enhance the experience with psychotropic 
153 


drugs. Make a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty depending on the size of the 
area to be examined: five Traits for a small room, six Traits for a ballroom, seven Traits 
for a house, eight Traits for an acre of land, nine Traits for a small forest. Success lets 
the ritemaster or Caem Warder ask three questions about the area and receive an 
intuitive sense of the answer. 
Rite of the Opened Bridge: Moon bridges connect caems through the Umbra. 
This rite creates one. The ritemaster must perform it once a year for each connection 
the caem wishes to maintain ties with, always during a moot and enacted simulta- 
neously from both sides. The ritemaster can also perform it in other circumstances, 
when truly warranted. The rite requires amoonstoneor pathstone, Umbralstones that 
resemble flat pearls with a wolfs paw print on one side. Theft of moonstones is a 
blasphemous act that justifies inter-sept warfare. 
At the rite’s climax, the caem totems reach out to each other and the moon 
bridge opens. The Garou of the two septs mingle for a wild revel. The moon bridge 
reduces travel time to 1/1OOOth the usual requirements, so even very distant caems can 
remain united. 
Make a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas) against eight Traits, 
minus the level of the ritemaster’s own caem. If the ritemaster’s pack totem is also the 
caern totem, she receives a three-Trait bonus on the challenge. If the rite was tried and 
failed last year, add one to the difficulty total. Once established, the moon bridge can 
be activated with the Rite of the Opened Cam and the Ragabash Gift: Open Moon 
Bndge. If the rite fails, it can’t be tried again until one lunar year later. 
If the challenge fails, the ritemaster must make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the 
pathstone in the caem is scorched by mishandled energies. This often leads to a Rite 
of Ostracism for the ritemaster. 
Rite of the Shrouded Glen: This rite tums an area within the Umbra invisible, 
so that observers elsewhere in the spirit world can’t see it. The rite requires a minimum 
of five participants, who must fast for at least three days to purify themselves. Make a 
Static Social Challenge against the caern’s Gauntlet rating plus four Traits. All 
participants can contribute Gnosis to this rite, and must gather 10 or more Gnosis 
Traits to make the effect permanent. Otherwise, the Umbral Glen remains hidden for 
one hour, plus one per Gnosis Trait spent. When Garou try to hide an area larger than 
the caem itself, the required Gnosis total increases by two Traits for each one-mile 
increase in radius. 
Aboanceb q i f e s  
Rite of Caern Building: This rite creates a caem, binding the spirit world and 
the material world together at a carefully prepared point. Wyrm creatures always come 
when this rite is performed, so it requires defenders and guards as well as participants. 
A powerful Theurge usually leads the rite; whole packs have been known to die in 
agony when an inexperienced ritemaster makes a mistake. 
The participants choose the physical focus for the heart of the caem and cleanse 
it of all taint. They also undergo a Rite ofcleansing to purify themselves. The ritemaster 
performs many minor rituals and meditations before undertaking caem construction. 
The sept posts sentries (often player characters), since Wyrm servants nearly inevita- 
bly try to disrupt the rite; this duty requires demonstrated prowess, to keep the area safe 
while the ritemaster is helpless in an extended chant drawing a spirit into the caem. 
The rite must be performed between sunset and sunrise during the waxing of the moon 
(except for Black Spiral caems, created during the waning moon). 
154 


mw--///-dq63 
‘(3, 
In principle, ritemasters could seek out a particular kind of spirit, but custom calls 
for allowing Gaia to make Her will known and accepting whatever spirit comes. 
Make an Extended Social Challenge against eight Traits, minus one for every five 
Garou participating and spending Gnosis beyond the 13 necessary participants. It 
takes 40 successes to create the caem, and the ritemaster can accumulate a maximum 
of one success per perinanent Gnosis Trait each hour. Yes, this makes success difficult: 
This is not a rite to undertake frivolously or with inexperienced leadership. If the rite 
fails, all participants take five levels of lethal damage and suffer distinct teardrop- 
shaped scars. (These scars are a mark of bravery, for noble effort on Gaia’s behalf, and 
are often called “tears of Gaia.”) 
Once the ritemaster accumulates the necessary successes, participants must 
contribute a total of at least 100 Gnosis Traits. If they fail to reach that total, all 
involved - 
starting with those closest to the ritemaster - 
begin suffering aggravated 
wounds, each of which counts as three more Gnosis Traits toward the total. The 
Storyteller overseeing the rite should speak privately with each participating player 
rather than having them call out Gnosis spent, topreserve the element ofuncertainty. 
If in the course of an hour the ritemaster fails to accumulate any successes, make two 
Simple Tests. If both fail, all involved suffer seven levels of lethal damage. Garou 
reduced below Incapacitated suffer severe battle scars. 
The minimum 40 successes create a Level One Caem. The Gauntlet in this area 
is 4, and spirits withincangrant powers equivalent to BasicGifts. Every five additional 
successes raise the caem level by one. At Level Three the Gauntlet rating is 3 and 
spirits can grant powers equivalent to Intermediate Gifts. At Level Five the Gauntlet 
rating is 2 and spirits can grant powers equivalent to Advanced Gifts. The rite ends 
with the ritemaster sacrificing one permanent Gnosis Trait per level of caem power. 
If a player character assumes the role of ritemaster and leads the rite successfully, 
she eams three Glory, five Honor and seven Wisdom. Other participants eam five 
Glory and three Honor: This is a legendary task, deserving suitable reward. 
Rites of a e a t h  
Everything living dies. These rites honor the departed and reaffirm their 
connections to the living and the cycle of life, death and rebirth. Garou immerse 
themselves in these rites to help release their grief and fear. 
The ritemaster must make a Static Social Challenge with a difficulty of eight 
Traits, minus one per Rank of the Garou being honored. 
dfusic Rites 
Gathering for the Departed: This rite, usually led either by a Galliard or a 
packmate of a recently deceased werewolf, honors the life of the departed and 
acknowledges the grief of those who remain. It various in practice wildly from tribe to 
tribe. An Appalachian Fianna pack may have a boisterous tale-telling competition, 
while a contemplative Uktena pack might observe a solemn period of meditation and 
crafting small mandalas embodying aspects of the commemorated Garou. Every form 
that allows the participants to moum is appropriate. The Storyteller may allow the 
ritemaster to make a Static Social Challenge against eight Traits for a bonus on future 
efforts to contact the deceased via the Ancestors Background. Let the quality of 
roleplaying influence the details. 


Rite of the Winter Wolf: Garou perform this rite upon deciding they’re too 
wounded or too old to fight alongside their tribe. The celebrant announces his intent 
to undergo the rite and sits at the center of a circle of his pack- and septmates. The 
Galliards sing chants and hymns about the celebrant’s accomplishments and invoke 
the spirits’ protection for glory as the celebrant’s soul passes on to the next life. The 
celebrant thenwalks (with all the dignity he can muster) through the ranks of the tribe 
to some secluded place where he will die, usually with the aid of a silver klaive. The 
observers howl a dirge as the celebrant leaves. The suicide is immediately followed by 
a Gatheringfur the Departed. This rite is always performed at night with a minimum of 
three Garou besides the celebrant. The suicide weapon must be silver. 
l.tlystic flit es 
These rites bring the Garou into direct contact with the Umbra and the spirits. 
Make a Static Mentalchallenge (retest with Rituals) against sevenTraits, unless 
Most of these rites are performed alone. 
otherwise noted. 
flusic Rites 
Baptism of Fire: Most tribes attempt to track down their Kinfolk‘s children 
within a month of birth and test the children for the potential to undergo the Change. 
Garou children are baptized in the light of their auspice moon, beside aritual fire, with 
ashes and a few drops of Garou blood. A Kin-Fetch, a lesser tribal spirit, kisses the 
infant as the baptizing Garou holds it up and howls Gaia’s greeting. The spirit kiss 
inscribes a spiritual mark in the form of the tribal pictograph; this mark is visible only 
to spirit senses and cannot be removed. When circumstances allow, the participating 
Kin-Fetch watches over the child to let the tribe know where it is and when it’s in 
danger. Unfortunately, such weak spirits are both vulnerable and prone to distraction, 
so that the tribe often loses track of its future members. Make a Static Social Challenge 
against six Traits. Success completes the ritual; additional Mental Traits spent add to 
the Kin-Fetch‘s Gnosis for future challenges relating to its mission to watch the child. 
Rite of Binding: This rite ties a spirit in servitude to a Garou. The Garou can 
bind nearly any spirit they encounter, but tradition favors binding only when really 
necessary, as too much binding strains the Garou’s relationship with the spirit world. 
Spirits trapped in this rite can be bound to temporary service or into a talen, or indeed 
into any object, place or person. Only spirits friendly to the Garou’s totem submit 
voluntarily to binding. This rite only works when a spirit is nearby, and is usually 
performed in the Umbra. Spend one or more Gnosis Traits (one is required); each 
Trait spent lowers the spirit’s Gnosis by one for the ensuing challenge. Make a 
challenge of the Garou’s Willpower versus the spirit’s adjusted Gnosis. Success binds 
the spirit for one week, plus another week per Mental Trait the Garou spends. Basic 
success suffices to create a talen, which lasts until used. 
Rite of the Questing Stone: This rite lets the werewolf find a person or object, 
as long as she knows its name. Having apiece of the target in hand makes it easier. The 
rite itself is a form of dowsing: The Garou suspends a stone or needle from a thread 
while concentrating on the target. Glass Walkers and other modern-minded Garou 
use a map and compass with the same results. Make the standard challenge. Reduce 
the difficulty by one Trait if the Garou has apiece of the target (clothing, jewelry, etc.). 
156 


The rite gives the Garou a sense of the object’s general location but not its exact 
position. 
Rite of Talisman Dedication: This rite lets a Garou bind objects to his body, 
remaining with him through changes of form and crossings of the Gauntlet. Most 
talismans are mundane objects the Garou deems useful; spiritual objects such as 
fetishes and talens don’t need separate dedication. Werewolves usually perform this 
rite under their auspice moon, and each auspice has its own traditions about how to 
do it. Spend one Gnosis per object dedicated, and the Garou cannot have more 
dedicated objects than Gnosis Traits. Some particularly large objects - 
an appliance, 
say- may count as more than one object for this purpose, while closely related objects 
like asetofclothes may count as one object altogether. A container and its ingredients 
may count as one object, depending on how conceptually linked they are. Storytellers 
and players must work out how each object accommodates shifts of form: by stretching, 
by shifting around, by sinking painlessly into the Garou’s body, or by some other 
suitably interesting means. Objects which sink into the Garou’s body are visible as 
tattoos, and others can spend a Willpower Trait to attempt to pick them off. 
Rite of Becoming: Garou must perform this rite at an Anchorhead domain. It 
allows the celebrant to travel safely into the Deep Umbra. It relies heavily on 
symbology of continuity and connection; the most common version calls for the 
celebrant to braid together three of his own hairs, three pieces ofcopper wire and three 
tendrils of ivy or another vine. Sometimes silk threads replace the hair or wire. The 
Garou makes the braid, ties around his wrist and howls out three words of power. 
Various tribes modify or extend the rite: The Uktena drink apotion to help loosen the 
soul from the Tellurian, the Black Furies perform this rite and travel the Deep Umbra 
in threesomes, and so on. The Garou takes one level of aggravated damage and must 
immediately return to the Near Umbra if the braid is destroyed. 
Rite of Spirit Awakening: This rite rouses a sleeping or inactive spirit. The 
ritemaster plays a rhythm on a musical instrument (usually a drum) while the other 
participants circle around and growl a counterpoint. The rite arouses the spirit within 
a mundane object and makes it appear in the Umbra; when performed on plants the 
rite is often known as “sanctification” and rouses the plant-spirit enough to act as a 
talen for a single use. Different plants naturally have different abilities, and each sept 
maintains its own herbal lore. The ritemaster must play or sing a song, but musical 
talent doesn’t affect the outcome, just the act of performance. Make a Static Social 
Challenge against the spirit’s Rage. This rite doesn’t grant control over the spirit, and 
a Storyteller should decide whether the spirit is friendly or hostile; supportingrites and 
gestures can make a big difference. This rite doesn’t work on sentient beings, who are 
already as awakened as they’re going to get. 
Rite of Summoning: Summoning spirits in the material world is always 
complex, usually demanding and frequently risky. In the Umbra it’s much easier. This 
rite compels spirits to seek out the Garou summoning them and imposes a modicum 
of control. Powerful spirits regard themselves as coming out of curiosity, but come all 
the same. The ritemaster makes a Static Gnosis Challenge against the local Gauntlet 
rating to pierce the Gauntlet even though she’s not already in the Umbra, (A 
ritemaster who is in the Umbra, of course, doesn’t have to do this.) Make a second 
Static Social Challenge against four Traits to summon a Gaffling, five Traits for a 
Jaggling, seven Traits for a totem avatar, nine Traits for an Incarna, or 10 Traits for a 
Celestine avatar. Each hour spent in summoning reduces the target difficulty by one, 
down to a minimum of three Traits. At the Storyteller’s discretion, past favorable and 
unfamiliar encounters with a particular spirit may reduce or increase the difficulty. 
157 


Success summons the spirit to arrive sometime in the next several hours, who 
arrives with some initial hostility and must be placated (roleplay this out wherever 
possible). Spend one extra Social Trait to make the spirit arrive quickly, two 
extraTtraits to make it come quickly with a neutral to friendly attitude or three extra 
traits to make it come quickly and favorably inclined to the summoner. 
Infermcbiute Rites 
Rite of the Fetish: This rite permanently binds a spirit into an object. In 
preparation, the celebrant must clean the potential fetish by placing it under running 
water, burying it in pure earth and then exposing it to constant breezes or suspending 
it above flame for three nights in a row. Then she forces or persuades the spirit into the 
prepared object. Some tribes (like the Fianna) favor flattery, others (like the Bone 
Gnawers and Silent Striders) bribery in the form of spent Gnosis, still others (like the 
Red Talons and Shadow Lords) intimidation. Make a Static Social Challenge against 
lOTraits, minus two for eachpemnent GnosisTrait spent. Extensive preparation and 
efforts to win the spirit’s favor may also reduce the difficulty at the Storyteller’s 
discretion. Using force requires the Garou to attack the spirit and reduce it to OEssence 
Traits before binding it, and the fetish doesn’t work until the spirit regains its Essence. 
If the binding challenge fails, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the spirit is 
immediately released and will be very hostile unless the Garou was very thorough 
indeed about efforts to win its favor. 
Rite of the Totem: This rite creates a pack through the union of a group of 
Garou with a guardian spirit. The werewolves who wish to become a pack must coat 
their eyes with a mixture of saliva and some substance holy to Gaia, such as mugwort 
or tobacco, and step stideways into the Umbra. Once in the spirit world, the ritemaster 
leads the participants in a hunt for the totem. The signs the totem leaves vary based 
on the spirit and its assessment of the pack, but worthy Garou always do find it in the 
end. They must then earn its favor, often through performing a quest (though having 
just completed a Rite of Passage takes care of that requirement). Characters must 
purchase the Totem Background and then practice this rite. The standard challenge 
applies. 
Punishment Rites 
Despite their protestations, Garou aren’t perfect. Sometimes persuasion and 
private means of discipline fail, and it’s necessary for the tribe or sept to publicly 
sanction one of its members. These rites enforce Garou justice, setting an example for 
others and reinforcing the primacy of the group over the individual. These rites take 
place only after other efforts at correction fail. 
The ritemaster makes a Social Challenge against the malefactor. Failure in the 
punishment rite is widely taken as Gaia’s sign that the punishers overestimate the 
target’s guilt. At the Storyteller’s discretion, punishment rites automatically fail 
against a truly innocent target and earn Renown loss for the punishers. 
Rite of Ostracism: This is the common punishment for lesser crimes, casting 
out the target from tribe and sept, sometimes even from his pack. Other Garou treat 
him as a non-entity, ignoring him where possible and driving him away when 
necessary. In life-or-death situations, other Garou may help out, but in minimal 
degree, and it’s not required. At the rite, the Garou forma circle around the target, and 
158 


each participant says twice (once to Gaia, once to her brethren) the name of the [fl 
offender and “Of all Gaia’s children, I have no such brother/sister.” The speaker then 
turns counterclockwise to face away from the circle. When all have spoken, they move 
off singly into the night. Ostracism normally lasts from one phase of the moon to the 
next, but tribal leaders can proclaim as long a period of banishment as they deem 
necessary. Ostracism costs the target one Glory, five Honor and one Wisdom. 
Stone of Scorn: The Stone of Scorn is a rock imbued with a malicious spirit of 
shame, sorrow or some other suitable emotion. Well-established septs maintain a 
permanent Stone of Scum, but most make one as it’s needed. The ritemaster passes the 
stone from one participant to the next, forcing the scorned target to watch as each 
participant carves or paints a symbol of shame (derision, mockery, etc.) onto it while 
telling an embarrassing tale about the target. Galliards sometimes win Renown for 
particularly effective recitations. The rite can take all night, depending on how 
enthusiastic or involved participants get. The punishment formally ends at dawn.. . 
but of course the stories remain in listeners’ minds and can come up again. The 
standard challenge applies. The punished Garou loses eight Honor and two Wisdom 
until performing a noteworthy honorable deed. Storytellers should make sure that this 
doesn’t turn into a de facto permanent loss - 
the Garou isn’t required to go slay Eater- 
of-Souls, just to do something that serves the GarouNation and demonstrates courage 
or cunning used well. 
Voice of the Jackal: This rite is for occasions when a werewolfs actions have 
shamed her sept or tribe as well as herself. The ritemaster blows a handful of dust or 
ashes on the offender and says, “Because thy (cowardice, gluttony, selfishness, etc.) has 
proven thee to be of jackal blood, let thy voice proclaim thy true breed!” The target’s 
voice changes into an annoyingly shrill and piercing nasal whine until the ritemaster 
repeals the punishment. Jackal-hounds, as victims of this rite are known, suffer a two- 
Trait penalty in all Social Challenges and gain the Negative Traits Obnoxiow x 2. 
They also lose two Glory and five Honor. The ritemaster can repeal the punishment 
at any time, though the Renown loss remains. Some jackal-hounds hasten the end of 
their punishment by undertaking quests of great benefit. 
fntermebiate Rites 
The Hunt: This rite calls the sept or tribe out against a Garou who’s committed 
a capital crime like unjustified murder and yet retains some vestige of honor. The 
participants mark their bodies with paint or clay symbols that identify them as a 
Hunting Pack. Being chosen for the Hunt is an honor, and all other Garou yield to 
them. The ritemaster, or Master of the Hunt, leads the chase, and the rite ends with 
the death of the criminal. There’s no quarter given, though the death itself is 
considered a form of atonement making the criminal eligible for burial and mourning 
with honor. It’s possible to play this out with normal systems. Alternatively, make a 
Static Social Challenge against the target’s Rank plus four Traits. Failure means the 
condemned fought well and gains posthumous Glory. 
Satire Rite: This rite expresses shame and derision like the Stone ofScurn, but 
in a more serious way. Participating Philodox and Galliards create special song, dance 
or dramatic event specifically to ridicule an offending Garou. They perform the work 
in front of the assembled sept, with the target visible to all. Garou emphasis on oral 
history insures that the charges and presentation will be remembered; choice bits from 
the satire will surface in conversation for years to come. Most satires do not circulate 
outside the sept, but particularly incisive or entertaining passages may spread widely. 
159 
L 


Make a Static Social Challenge against the offender’s current Rank + four Traits. If 
successful, the offender loses one Rank level and is reduced in Renown to the 
beginning amounts for the next lowest Rank. He can thereafter regain Renown and 
Rank as normal, but will be under scrutiny. If the satire fails, the Garou loses no Rank; 
the ritemaster must make two Simple Tests, and if both fail, the ritemaster becomes 
the butt of scorn and loses five Wisdom. 
The Rending of the Veil: This rite targets a human who’s gravely offended the 
Garou, either by acting against the Garou directly or by inflicting severe and hard-to- 
repair damage on Gaia and Her children. The rite removes the Veil for one night, 
during which the Garou hunt the target. The ritemaster leaves a small bag of burning 
dung and herbs near the sleeping victim; when she awakes, the Veil is burned away. 
The hunt may or may not end in her death, though the shock of seeing what’s behind 
the Veil (specifically, nine-foot-tall predators who make it clear they hate her) usually 
inflicts lasting mental disability. This rite is not a breach of the Litany if it’s discussed 
in moot and lesser measures are tried first. The ritemaster must place the prepared bag 
within 10 feet of where the victim sleeps. It smolders during the rite itself; the 
ritemaster doesn’t need to be near it once it’s placed. Make the standard challenge. 
Failure leaves the Veil intact, and the ritemaster must make two Simple Tests. If both 
fail, the ritemaster falls under the Delirium for the night. 
A b o u n d  Rites 
Gaia’s Vengeful Teeth: This rite punishes only the greatest of traitors who 
actively choose to support the Garou Nation’s enemies, including hostile manifesta- 
tions of the Wyrm, Weaver or Wyld, and whose treachery causes much death and 
destruction. Five or more participants drag the traitor to a rocky, dry spot of ground. 
The ritemaster stabs her own hand with a sharpened twig or stone and recites the 
traitor’s sins while smearing her blood over his eyes, ears and forehead. Once the 
recitation is complete, everything of Gaia the traitor touches turns to razor-edged 
silver for just as long as it’s touching his flesh. Crinos hunters then chase the traitor 
to his death. The offender’s name is removed from all histories and thereafter used only 
as a curse. The traitor cannot step sideways while any of the ritemaster’s blood remains 
on him. Nobody survives this rite. 
Rites of Renown 
These rites commemorate individual accomplishments and a Garou’s passage to 
Make a Static Social Challenge against six Traits, unless otherwise noted. 
a new station within Garou society. 
dusic Rites 
Rite of Accomplishment: This rite takes place when a Garou is eligible to 
challenge for new Rank. It honors her deeds and trials getting to this point. An elder 
calls the honored Garou forward and lists all the subject’s accomplishments that 
contribute to her achievement. Anyone else who wishes to add something may then 
do so. The elder concludes the rite by proclaiming the subject’s worthiness. 
The difficulty is only four Traits unless someone wishes to dispute the point, in 
which case it rises to six. Disputes seldom take place in public, as the challenger risks 
humiliation as well. The challenger stands to heckle the ritemaster and the subject 
who must make a Rage Challenge to avoid frenzies. Frenzy is proof of not yet being 
160 


ready. If the subject remains cool and the rite concludes successfullv, nobodv else can 
,. 
challenge her worthiness for the next three moon phases. 
Failure on the rite challenge is considered evidence ofsome failing in the subject; 
the ritemaster usually receives some portent of a concealed flaw. Storytellers should 
work with players to smoothly integrate this unexpected information. 
Rite of Passage: This rite follows a cub’s First Change and awareness of being 
Garou. A werewolf who hasn’t completed a Rite of Passage isn’t an adult or deserving 
of much respect; however old he is physically, he’s still considered a juvenile. The rite 
itself involves a quest for the participating cubs to prove their courage, honor and 
wisdom. The mission may be one of war, stealth, healing or any sort of activity that 
requires them to use the full range of their abilities. Cubs are almost always assigned 
to work together on the quest as the ability to operate as a whole is a key part of Garou 
nature that few modem societies teach their children. Some Theurges send spirits to 
watch the cubs and report back on their doings. 
If the cubs succeed in the quest, the ritemaster performs a final blessing, marking 
them with a painted or tattooed pictogram showing them to be full Garou. Failure 
requires a period spent in the disgraced cub status before participants can try again. 
Garou can leam their first tribal Gifts upon completing this rite. 
Rite of Wounding: This rite honors a Garou’s first battle wound (which can 
happen on the Rite of Passage quest; if so, this rite immediately follows the conclusion 
of the Rite ofPatsage). Each tribe marks the moment differently, from the Get of Fenris 
tradition of drinking and fighting all night to the Children of Gaia custom of blessing 
the shed blood as a source of fertility for the world after the great battles are done. Only 
the wounded character and the ritemaster must be present, though the subject’s pack 
and sept usually are there as well. The wounded character receives two Glory if the 
standard challenge succeeds. 
Seasonal Rites 
Creatures of nature as well as society, the Garou mark the cycle of the year. The 
details depend on the tribe and sept. Some celebrate each full moon and other events, 
others commemorate only the solstices and equinoxes. The depth and variety of 
seasonal rites speaks volumes about how a particular Garou community views its place 
in the world and tradition. Particularly spirit-minded (or perhaps deranged) Garou 
insist that without this rites, Gaia would cease to bless the Garou and perhaps even 
stop changing the seasons. 
At least five Garou must participate in each of these rites, and it must take place 
at the appropriate time of year. The ritemaster makes a Static Physical Challenge 
against eight Traits, minus the caern’s level if the rite takes place at a caem, down to 
a minimum of three Traits. 
&ask Rites 
Rite of the Winter Wind: This rite is for the longest night of the year, to honor 
Helios and encourage him to start lengthening the days again. Every sept does it 
differently, almost always involving a howl around a bonfire. Beyond that, trappings 
vary wildly, from torchlight chases through the woods to the sacrifice of gold and 
crystal artifacts. In any event, the rite ends with a final howl at dawn. 
Rite of Reawakening: This rite is for the spring equinox. The ritemaster begins 
at sundown with a quest into the Umbra for all the participants. Sometimes it’s 


symbolic, but in times of danger, it involves dealing with real problems. Tradition calls 
for facing seven trials, which between them cover the whole range of Garou abilities, 
but every tribe and many septs has its own version ofwhat the seven trials are. At least 
one of the trials calls for each participant to give up some object of personal 
importance, a funerary gift to the old year and an openness to what the new cycle of 
growth will bring. 
T h e  Great Hunt: This rite is for the summer solstice. The short hours of night 
remove monsters’ hiding places, and the Garou take advantage of it with a sacred hunt. 
The ritemaster calls the assembled together at midnight and asks Gaia to show them 
a creature or creatures worthy of the Great Hunt. Each participant sheds some blood 
into a bowl for painting on the surrounding spaces and each other with pictograms 
favoring martial prowess. At dawn Gaia sends a sign or vision proclaiming the target, 
and the hunt begins. The target is usually a Wyrm-creature, but not always; Gaia can 
point to a Weaver or Wyld minion or even an enemy among the ranks of the Garou. 
The hunt must conclude the following midnight with the target’s blood spilled as a 
sacrifice to Gaia. Failing to complete the hunt is a very bad omen for the year to come. 
Characters involved in a successful hunt gain the Glory suitable for the target. If 
the hunt is unsuccessful, participants lose two Glory each, and all rites the sept 
members perform suffer a one-Trait difficulty penalty until the next Midsummer. 
The Long Vigil: This rite is for the autumn equinox, marking the transition 
from day-dominated struggle to night-dominated conflicts. The rite begins at sunset 
with the participants gathered around a bonfire. The sept members spend the day 
before decorating the caern with this year’s war trophies. As the sun sets, they chant 
their thanks to Helios for his blessing, pray for his safety in winter and praise Luna for 
her coming aid. The Galliards recite tales of the most glorious battles and how they 
glorify Luna, pointing to each trophy in turn to call attention to the valor that brought 
it there. Particularly honored members of other auspices sometimes tell their own tales 
as well. The tale-telling lasts until dawn; the rite ends with one final invocation of 
Luna by the ritemaster, after which the participants hurl as many trophies as possible 
into the bonfire as a sacrifice. 
Minor Rites 
Every act has a sacred dimension, the Garou know. These rituals keep the sacred 
in the midst of daily living. This list just scratches the surface, and Storytellers should 
work with players to develop more that suit the characters’ personal natures, totems, 
experiences, auspices, breeds, tribes and other aspects. 
Minor rites cost half as much as others: one level of the Rites Background allows 
purchase of two minor rites. They take half the usual time to enact, two to five minutes. 
Storytellers should reward players who roleplay them out as a reminder of their 
characters’ practices, but even keeping them woven into the narrative without 
detailed roleplaying is a good idea and should also be rewarded. 
Bone Rhythms: This rite honors a Garou’s totem spirit. Each spirit has its own 
associated rhythm; the Garou taps out the right one with special drumsticks. Tradition 
calls for these to be made of bone, but any material will do, and some Garou compete 
to find innovative but pleasing new alternatives. A Garou who performs this rite three 
times a day at least three days in a row gets a one-Trait bonus to use on any one 
challenge in the spirit realms. Once it’s spent, the Garou must spend another three 
days to gain another. 
162 


Breath of Gaia: The werewolf breathes deeply in clean air 13 times while [g 
meditating on his love of Gaia. A Garou who performs this rite at least once per day 
for one full cycle of the moon gets a two-Trait bonus on any one healing or detection 
challenge. 
Greet the Moon: The Garou howls out an elaborate greeting to Luna as she 
rises, expressing a sentiment appropriate to the phase of the moon, the season of year 
and any other concerns that seem relevant. Performing this rite each night at moonrise 
for a full phase of the moon grants a one-Trait bonus on all social interactions with 
Garou of that auspice the next night the moon reaches that phase. 
Greet the Sun: This rite is most common among Children of Gaia, Uktena and 
Wendigo, but not wildly popular among any tribe. It’s similar to Greet the Moon except 
performed at sunrise. Performing this rite nine days in a row gives a one-Trait bonus 
on all efforts to sense Wyrm-creatures and Wyrm-taint, as long as you continue to 
perform the rite every day. If you miss a day, you must start over. 
Hunting Prayer: The Garou pauses before a hunt to praise Gaia and all natural 
creatures, and chooses some item to hold his prayers. The Garou must then take that 
item with him while hunting and, if he loses it, choose a new one and start over. 
Performing this rite before every hunt for three turnings of the moon gives a one-Trait 
bonus on all tracking challenges as long as the Garou continues to say his prayers. 
Prayer for the Prey: The Garou steps into the Umbra immediately after 
making a kill, thanking the prey’s spirit for giving its life. Performing this rite for every 
beast of Gaia (not including minions of the Triat) the character slays for one full 
turning of the moon gives a one-Trait bonus on all challenges involving nature-spirits. 
This benefit lasts until the character makes a kill without taking time to offer thanks. 
163 


Marja pressed herself up against the wall as tight as she could, feeling her 
sweat soak into her shirt. O n  the other side, muttering and sniffing for her, 
were five creatures she’d seen only in nightmares - 
nightmares of the past, 
where she’d died under a mound of the black-furred, deformed monstrosities. 
Their search was effectively barring her escape, as they were taking up the 
alley and the only exit from the place. Last time she’d encountered them, 
they’d killed her, and she had been a Garou of considerable strength; now she 
was a cub who was still having trouble changing. She dug her fingers into the 
brick against her back, fighting the tears of fright that were starting to rise. No, 
she was a Garou now, and that meant she would not cry like a frightened little 
girl, no matter how bad the circumstances. Why had she been so stupid as to 
sneak out of the caern?! 
Something tapped her left ankle. She barely had time to clap a hand over 
her mouth - 
a scream would have brought the Spirals running. She forced 
herself to lookdown, and saw a scruffy bum looking up at her from the mounds 
of newspaper and a cardboard box. His dark eyes sparkled like maracasite amid 
his bushy white beard and hair. Around his neck was a long chain of lug nuts, 
punctuated with bottle caps. He put a finger to his lips, then beckoned her to 
come down to his level. She slowly sank, sliding against the wall, until he 
could pull her inside. He watched the Spirals with a hard gaze, never blinking, 
never turning from them. After 10 long minutes, the Spirals moved out. 
Her boxmate relaxed and glared at her. “Mother must like you a lot, ‘cause 
I can’t think of any other reason for you to be alive now,” he growled. “Whatta 
you doin’ outside the caern?” 
“I was just- 
I thought-‘‘ 
Marja couldn’t finish her sentence, still 
shaking. Then it occurred to her that he’d asked about the caern. “Wait a 
minute, who are you?” 
“The one who jus’ saved your little hide. Or just Uncle Gives-a-Rat’s-Ass 
to you,” the bum shook his shaggy head. “Now let’s get your scared Little tail 
back to the caern. If you’re lucky, maybe -just maybe -yo’ Den Father will 
figure that a scare like whatchoo just got will be punishment enough. O n  the 
other hand, maybe he won’t.’’ He grinned at her, showing a mouthful of 
unusually white teeth and shifted to lupus form, which looked like a mix of 
Rottweiler and terrier. “Let’s go, sugar.” 


Rules are an integral part of any game; they define what characters can and 
cannot do. Only when confrontation does occur are rules necessary to govern those 
situations. Still, the primary focus of this game is to tell a good story. 
Challenges 
There comes a time when two or more players come into conflicts that cannot 
be resolved through roleplaying alone. The system detailed in this chapter allows for 
the resolution of conflicts efficiently and quickly. This sort of face-off is called a 
challenge, and it makes for a very simple system of conflict resolution. In most cases, 
a Narrator does not even need to be present when a challenge is played. 
Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins; in fact, 
roleplaying becomes more important than ever if players intend to enjoy a confron- 
tation and avoid disputes. Experienced players can integrate a challenge into their 
roleplaying so seamlessly that outsiders don’t even know that anything unusual is 
going on. At the players’ option, special hand signals can be used to indicate when 
certain Traits and powers are being employed. 
In order for this system to work, players need to work together. They have to 
educate each other on the rules and agree on what Traits can be used in a challenge. 
Compromise and cooperation are the bywords of the game. Arguments over whether 
or not a particular Trait bid is appropriate wreck both the momentum and the mood 
of a game. 
Using G a i t s  
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first understand 
what defines a character’s capabilities. A character is created by choosing a number 
of adjectives that describe and define that person as an individual. These adjectives 
are called Traits, and they are described fully in Chapter Two. These Traits are used 
to declare challenges against other characters or against static forces represented by a 
Narrator. 
166 


Initial dia 
A challenge begins with a player “bidding” one of her Traits against her 
opponent. At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the challenge 
are - 
like attacking with claws or using a Gift. The defender must then decide how 
she will respond. She can either relent immediately or bid one of her own Traits in 
response. 
When players bid Traits against one another, they may only use Traits that could 
sensibly be used in that situation. This restriction means that a player can usually use 
only those Traits from the same category as her opponent’s Traits. Most challenges are 
categorized as Physical, Social or Mental, and all Traits used in a challenge must be 
from the same category. Experienced players may offer each other more creative 
leeway, but only by mutual agreement. 
If the defender relents, she loses the challenge automatically. For example, if she 
were being attacked, she would suffer a wound. If she matches the challenger’s bid, the 
two immediately go to a test. Those Traits bid are put at risk, as the loser of the test 
not only loses the challenge, but the Trait she bid as well for the rest of the evening. 
Testing 
Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they engage in a test 
immediately. The test itself is not what you may think - 
the outcome is random, but 
no cards or dice are used. The two players face off against one another by playing Rock- 
Paper-Scissors. 
If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the duration of the session 
(usually the rest of the evening). Essentially, you have lost some confidence in your 
own capabilities and can’t call on them for a while. You can no longer use that Trait 
effectively, at least until you regain confidence in your Traits. 
The test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over and the 
winner is declared. The test produces one of two possible outcomespither one player 
is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the number of Traits that they 
currently have available in the category used (Physical, Social or Mental). The player 
with the least number of Traits loses the test and therefore loses the challenge. Note 
that the number of Traits you’ve lost in previous challenges, or lost for any other 
reason, reduces the maximum number of Traits you can bid in ties. You may lie about 
the number of Traits you possess, but only by declaring fewer Traits than you actually 
have - 
you may never say that you have more Traits than you actually do. Doing so 
allows you to keep the actual number of Traits you possess a secret, although doing so 
may be risky. The challenger is always the first to declare his number of Traits. If both 
players declare the same number of Traits, then the challenge is a draw, and both 
players lose the Traits they bid. 
qock-o+.xper-Scissors 
What we mean by Rock-Paper-Scissors is the following: You and another person 
face off, and, on the count of three, you show one of three hand gestures. “Rock” is a 
basic fist. “Paper” is just a flat hand. “Scissors” is represented by sticking out two fingers. 
You then compare the two gestures to determine the winner. Rock crushes Scissors. 
Scissors cuts Paper. Paper covers Rock. Identical signs indicate a tie 
167 


4 
I 
c 
Abjubicafian 
If you have question or argument about the rules or the conditions of a challenge, 
find a Narrator to make a judgment. Try to remain in character while you look for a 
Narrator. Any interruption in the progress of the story should be avoided if at all 
possible, so work problems out with other players if you can. If you do not know the 
correct application of a certain rule, it’s usually better to wing it rather than interrupt 
the flow of the game. 
It should be noted that a challenger who fails on a Social or Mental Challenge 
must wait at least five real-time minutes (and not spend them arguing over the results 
of the previous challenge -you 
can’t argue with a Narrator for 458, then drop your 
argument and say, “Oh, look, time’s up.. .”) before repeating the failed challenge. This 
rule includes supernatural powers that use Mental or Social Challenges unless the 
descriptions specify otherwise. This stricture does not include trials that are failed but 
then redeemed through retests or overbids. 
C o m p 1 i cat i o n s 
There are a number of ways in which a challenge can be made more complicated. 
The basic rules are enough to resolve most disputes, but the following rules add a few 
bells and whistles. 
Megatioe Craifs 
Many characters have Negative Traits, Traits that can be used against a 
character by his opponent. During the initial bid of any challenge, after you have 
each bid one Trait, you can call out a Negative Trait that you believe your opponent 
possesses. If he does indeed possess the Negative Trait, your opponent is forced to 
bid an additional Trait although you still risk only one Trait. If he does not possess 
that Negative Trait, you must risk an additional Trait. You may call out as many 
Negative Traits as you wish during the initial bid phase of a challenge, as long as you 
can pay the price for being wrong. 
If your opponent does not have additional Traits to bid, then your Trait is not at 
risk during the challenge. Additionally if you guess more than one Negative Trait that 
your opponent cannot match, you gain that many additional Traits in the case of a tie 
or an overbid (see p. 169). The same works in reverse, favoring your opponent if you 
do not have additional Traits remaining to match incorrect Negative Trait guesses. It 
is considered very cheap to list off which Negative Traits a player might possess if you 
have no valid reason to suspect as much in-game. 
It can be risky to bid Negative Traits, but if you’re sure about what you’re doing, 
you canraise the stakes for your opponent, possibly even to the point where she relents 
rather than risking additional Traits. 
168 


Over bibbing 
Overbidding is the system by which powerful characters may prevail in a 
challenge, even if they lose the initial test. An elder with 16 Physical Traits should 
be able to crush an uppity cub who has only three. This system is designed to make 
that possible. 
Once a test has been made, the loser has the option of calling for an overbid. In 
order to call an overbid, you must risk a new Trait; the original one has already been 
lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the number of applicable Traits they 
possess in the appropriate category, starting with the player who called for the overbid. 
If you have double the number of Traits as your opponent in that category, you may 
attempt another test. As with a tie, you may state a number of Traits less than the 
actual number you have and keep your true power secret. Overbidding can be 
dangerous unless you are confident in your estimation of your opponent’s abilities. 
Static Challenges 
Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge against a Narrator rather than 
against another player. For example, a hacker may use a Static Mental Challenge with 
the Computer Ability to break into another computer system. In such circumstances, 
you bid a Trait that would be appropriate, then perform a test against the Narrator. Before 
the test is made, the Narrator decides on the difficulty of the task which you are 
attempting-this 
is the number of Traits you are bidding against, which is used to 
compare in the event of a tie. The test proceeds exactly as it would if you were testing 
against another character. Of course, you may attempt to overbid in a Static Challenge, 
but beware because the Narrator can overbid as well. The number of Traits attached to 
the challenge should represent the difficulty and danger inherent in the challenge. 
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books, doors or even 
magical items. These notes indicate the type of challenges that must be won for 
something to occur (such as deciphering a tome or picking a lock). 
Simple Tests 
Simple Tests are used to determine if you can do something successfully when 
there is no real opposition. Most Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, 
though some may. 
When a Simple Test is called, a test (Rock-Paper-Scissors) is performed against 
a Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds on a win or a tie, although in some cases, 
it may be necessary for the player to win for him to receive any benefit from the 
challenge. 
Retests 
CertainTraits allow acharacter toretest. Aretest allows acharacter to ignore the 
results of the first test and test again for a new result. Retests are most commonly gained 
through Abilities, but other Traits may also provide them; such Traits are noted in 
their descriptions. Generally, expending one level of an appropriate Ability allows for 
one retest. 
Multiple retests are possible on a single challenge, but each retest must come from 
a different source. A character may retest a challenge once using a level of Brawl and 
then retest again through the Merit Lucky, but he may not gain multiple retests with 
the Brawl Ability on the same challenge. 
I 
169 


fl~-kI///-.IuIy 
J’ 
Retests may be canceled (“blocked”) by a character who is capable of matching 
the conditions of the retest. Thus, if a player uses Firearms to retest when firing a gun, 
the opponent may expend a level of Dodge to block the retest and force the attacker 
to accept the results of the original test. 
Relenting 
At any time before the actual test is performed, a player may choose to acquiesce 
and admit defeat. Characters who relent lose the challenge automatically but not any 
Traits even if they bid one before relenting. They also help the game flow along more 
smoothly than extended Rock-Paper-Scissors matches do. 
&onus G a i t s  
Certain weapons and special powers grant a character bonus Traits during a 
challenge. You may add these extraTraits toward a character’s total whendetermining 
a tie involving that weapon or special Ability. 
Orber of Challenges 
Since multiple challenges will inevitably occur simultaneously during any given 
fight, occasionally the Narrator needs some means of determining who acts first and 
who acts last. Each person involved in a given game turn checks the current number 
of Traits appropriate to the action he wishes to attempt. A character punching 
someone would use Physical Traits to determine speed, while a character using a Gift 
would probably use Mental Traits. If an action does not require any sort of Trait 
challenge, it occurs last in the turn. As with overbidding, you may declare fewer Traits 
than you possess if you wish. Characters with equal numbers of Traits are assumed to 
go “simultaneously,” though for resolution purposes the Narrator may simply choose 
one to act first. 
Sometimes a character with a high number ofTraits will attack a character with 
fewer Traits, who willdecide tostrike back. In this case, the characterwith fewer Traits 
resolves his action in the same test as the faster character, but in doing so, he loses the 
ability to take any aggressive action for the turn - 
he uses up his one action with the 
counterattack. 
This rule can occasionally cause as much confusion as it’s trying to solve, and the 
Narrator may choose to apply this only when there is a debate or other critical need 
to establish who’s going first. 
T i m e  
Time in Mind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real life. It moves forward 
inexorably, relentlessly. For the most part, everything is played out in real time, and 
players are expected to stay in character unless they have a rules question. 
It is assumed that a player is always “in character” during the course of a story. A 
player should never drop character when interacting with other players. Doing so ruins 
the atmosphere for everyone involved. Challenges may be talked through, but a player 
is always considered to be active in the game. If a player needs to take a break, he should 
inform a Narrator. That player should not interact with any of the other players while 
out of character. 
The only other exception to the “in-character rule” is when a Narrator calls for 
a “timeout.” This call may be necessary to resolve a dispute or to change the scene if 
170 


the story calls for it. When iTimeout!i is called, all players within hearing distance 
must stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator calls out, “Resume” or “Lay on!” 
Timeouts should be kept to a minimum, since they interrupt the flow of the story. 
Chronicles, Stories, Sessions ana Scenes 
Mind’s Eye Theatre time breaks down into five major allotments: chronicles, 
stories, sessions, scenes and turns. A chronicle is defined as a series of smaller stories 
that are all connected somehow and which may take months or even years to 
complete. Each complete plotline within the chronicle is called a story. A session is 
just that: one actual night of play, although Storytellers may define a session as one 
night of game time if the action was left in media res at the end of the previous game. 
(Since many characters regain spent Traits in between sessions, this distinction can 
be important.) A scene is the amount of time it takes to resolve the action in one 
location; once the characters shift locations, the scene has ended. If a session will be 
taking place entirely at one location, a scene can then be defined as roughly one hour. 
Curns 
To keep everything straight when players start throwing challenges around or 
attempting complex actions, the time is right to start using turns. Turns are considered 
to last about four seconds, although this measure may vary from challenge to challenge 
at the Storyteller’s discretion. In any given turn, a character may take one action. 
Some actions may take multiple turns to complete, such as hacking a sophisticated 
computer system. Other actions, like speaking a short sentence, do not use up a 
character’s turn at all. Once everyone involved in a turn has taken an action, the turn 
ends and another turn begins. 
In some instances a character may be interrupted before he can take his action, 
or be forced to respond to events developing around him. In such instances, a character 
may always defend himself although doing so uses up his available action for the turn. 
If a power affects a character for 15 seconds, it is assumed to be in effect for four 
turns when turn-based time is in effect. In normal roleplaying, such powers work for 
their allotted amount of time. 
morontime 
Many aspects of a character’s life are critical to her continued existence, but they 
do not make for dramatic roleplaying, or they are too intricate to take time during 
sessions to perform. Storytellers are encouraged to use “downtime” between sessions 
to allow characters to keep up caern duties, learn Gifts and see to other facets of their 
existence. Other actions and interactions may take place during this time, with 
Storyteller supervision. As long as players don’t use abuse downtime privileges, the 
time between sessions can be a rewarding roleplaying experience in itself. 
&xpeuience anb Maturation 
Characterschange over time. People grow up, age and sometimes learn from their 
experiences. With practice and training, characters can improve existing abilities and 
develop new aptitudes. Experience Traits quantify how much a character learns and 
how much effort development of different sorts of features requires. 
Narrators award experience for (at least) three reasons. Simply by surviving 
another session, characters acquire some experience automatically. They can learn 
171 


/-- $--/!-/-d& 
from what’s happened to them. Narrators may give extra experience for particularly 
good roleplaying to players who really bring their characters to life and portray 
strengths and weaknesses in a vivid manner. In addition, Narrators may give extra 
experience to a few players for leadership efforts: both in-character and out-of- 
character work at getting players motivated and characters behaving appropriately. 
Awarding experience is an art, not a science. Beyond the minimum for all 
participants, each chronicle will have its own approach. The less often a troupe meets, 
for instance, the larger the award for each session should be. If the total per character 
for a month exceeds about 10 Traits on a regular basis, characters who begin as just- 
Changed cubs will reach Rank 4-5 within a year or two. On the other hand, characters 
who get no more than one or two Traits in any month are unlikely to ever make 
significant progress of any sort. Neither extreme is bad - 
it depends on what the 
players and Storytellers want the chronicle to be. Storytellers should do some 
experiments for themselves, taking characters built to their chronicle’s standards and 
seeing what they can buy month by month with different levels of award and decide 
what suits them. 
It’s important that players feel they get treated fairly when experience is awarded. 
Storytellers should in fact be fair when making awards, not piling extras on their 
friends just for being their friends nor withholding awards from players who’ve done 
well even if they’re not the Storyteller’s favorite people. Some chronicles make time 
after a session for players to nominate each other for bonus awards, with one or more 
extra Traits going to the players nominated most often. This is a good way to provide 
recognition for good play that the Storytellers happened not to see, but it too can 
become a mere popularity contest if not balanced by other criteria. 
Automatic award: Give one Experience Trait to each player who showed up 
and participated. 
Roleplaying award: Give one or more Experience Traits to players who put 
forth exceptional effort in roleplaying. 
Leadership award: Give one or more Experience Traits to players who 
contributed significantly to getting the characters started and keeping them moving, 
helping along the story. 
Other awards: Give one or more Experience Traits to players who helped the 
troupe and chronicle in other ways. 
Some chronicles provide Experience Traits and/or bonus Traits during character 
creation for players who help out in out-of-game ways, like arranging a good site and 
handling record-keeping. Like everything, how well this works depends on the people 
involved. Motivating players to get involved and helping those who make the game 
possible to explore fresh opportunities is a good thing; concentrating all the powerful 
characters in the hands of those who happen to be available for administrative chores 
may not be. Storytellers should feel free to experiment, and if they find a particular 
approach not working, to change it. Chronicles benefit both from consistency even 
when it might be a bit inconvenient and from changing a policy when it really does 
seem to be more problem than solution. 
172 


rn 
New Attribute Trait One Experience per Attribute. Characters 
cannot buy more Traits in a category than their Rank or chronicle standards 
allow. 
New Ability Trait One Experience per Ability for the first five levels 
in an Ability and two Experience per level thereafter. 
New Background Trait: One Experience per Background per level. 
This should require roleplaying out the changes in circumstances that justify 
the change in mechanical rating. 
New Gift: Three Experience for Basic Gifts, six for Intermediate Gifts 
and nine for Advanced Gifts. (Note: Characters must earn enough Renown 
and be of the appropriate Rank to learn a Gift.) Remember to add an additional 
point to the cost to learn a Gift outside a character’s breed, auspice or tribe. 
New Rite or Ritual: Two Experience for Basic, four Experience for 
Intermediate and six Experience for Advanced Rites. (Note: Rites and rituals 
only cost Experience if they are not readily available to a character during game 
play. In that case, they only require time.) 
New Gnosis, Rage or Willpower Trait: Three Experience for each 
Gnosis, Rage or Willpower Trait. Remember Rank limits. 
New Merit Double the listed cost of the Merit, with Storyteller or 
Narrator approval. This purchase should not occur instantaneously; rather it 
should be worked into a character’s on-going story. Storytellers and Narrators 
should consider the unbalancing effects of buying new Merits during a 
chronicle. 
Buy off Negative Trait: Two Experience for each Trait removed, and 
roleplaying the change in behavior and circumstances. 
Buy off Flaw: Double the cost ofthe Flaw, with Storyteller approval and 
worked into a character’s ongoing story. 
rn 
rn 
The Many Porms 
Every Garou is born with the ability to shift into any of five different forms. Each 
form exists for a particular set ofpurposes, and Garou don’t change between them “just 
because.” (On the other hand, some of the forms are excellent for appreciating the 
world in fresh ways and for a variety of celebrations of Gaia’s handiwork.) 
The five forms are: 
Homid (the human): This is the form in which human beings exist all their 
lives. 
Glabro (the near-man): The Glabro form is bipedal and roughly humanlike, 
but six inches or more taller than usual, and up to twice as massive as Homid. Teeth 
and nails stop short ofbecoming noticeably superior combat equipment, but are clearly 
not human, while the Glabro’s brow slopes and hair sprouts in profusion. 
I 
I 


Crinos (the wolf-man): Everything about Crinos form is optimized for combat. 
y 
The Crinos form stands at least nine feet tall, covered with dense fur, teeth and nails 
elongated into formidable weapons, vulnerable features like genitalia withdrawn and 
senses enhanced. 
Hispo (the near-wolf): Hispo is to true wolf form as Glabro is to Homid. The 
Hispo form is like a prehistoric dire wolf, more massive and threatening than modem 
wolves but built on a similar frame. 
Lupus (the wolf): This is the form in which wolves exist all their lives. 
A Garou must shift through each form in order. Starting from Homid, for 
instance, a Garou must go to Glabro, then to Crinos, then to Hispo and finally to Lupus 
if he wants to become a wolf. Each shift requires a Static Physical Challenge (retest 
with Primal-Urge), with difficulty depending on the form. 
Customizing 9forms 
I 
I 
Storytellers may sometimes allow players to designate non-standard traits 
for their characters’ forms. For example, a particularly lean and wolf-seeming 
Glabro form might give the character Wiry instead of Brawny, and Feral x 2 
instead of Feral and Repugnant once each. Substitutions should always take place 
within a particular category - 
one Strength-related trait for another, and so on. 
Storytellers aren’t obligated to do this, and it’s always a matter for discussion and 
negotiation. 
The following entries cover the details of each form. Shift difficulty is the number 
of traits to test against when trying to shift to that form, while the traits listed in Trait 
Adjustments are added to the character’s normal traits once the shift is over. 
Homib: (zhe Human 
Trait Adjustments: None 
Shift Difficulty: Six Traits 
Description: This is norm 
regenerative powers and are a1 
of lupus and metis breeds possess 
form; homid Garou aren’t. 
Glabro: T h e  Mear-).tian 
Trait Adjustments: Brawny, Robust, Tough, Tireless; Bestial, Feral, Repugnant 
Shift Difficulty: 7 Traits 
Description: Glabro form weighs up to 200% of the Homid form, with the gain 
entirely in muscle, and stands six inches taller. Werewolves in Glabro form can use 
Garou speech freely and human languages with a distinct guttural rasp. It’s not a good 
form to spend time in around human beings on a long-term basis since it’s both crude 
and very memorable. 
There’s no specific sign for Glabro, but players can indicate it with broad, wide- 
ranging gestures and mannerisms. Storytellers should encourage roleplaying out the 
speech limitations. 


Crinos: The Wolf-Man 
Trait Adjustments: Brawny x 2, Ferocious, Quick, Rugged, Tirekss x 2, Tough; 
Bestial x 2, Feral x 2, Repugnant x 2; no Manipulation-related and Appearance-related 
Traits (see p. 74) 
Shift Difficulty: Six Traits 
Description: Crinos form is for fighting. Period. When Gaia appointed the Garou 
Her warriors, this is what She had in mind. It’s the natural form of metis breed Garou; 
homid and lupus Garou are allergic to silver and can regenerate while in Crinos, but 
metis cannot. Bite and claw attacks inflict aggravated damage. 
The Crinos form is half again as tall as Glabro, and weighs 100-200% more. The 
head has a wolflike maw; claws and fangs are fully extended and highly menacing. The 
arms stretch to apelike proportions. The Crinos form can move equally well on two legs 
or four, and gains a tail to help with balance. While in Crinos form, a Garou can speak 
the Garou language without hindrance, and can communicate in a crude way with 
wolves. The form allows for no more than one or two human words at a time, generally 
key terms like “Attack!” The Garou must spend a Willpower Trait to deliver a 
complete sentence or concept. 
Note that the Manipulation and Appearance penalties don’t apply to dealings 
with other Garou. 
Crinos form is usually obvious from roleplaying. In case there’s any question, 
players should raise both hands over their heads as if about to strike. 
Hispo: The Hear-Wolf 
Trait Adjustments: Brawny, Enduring, Ferocious, Lithe, Quick, Rugged, Tirekss, 
Shift Difficulty: Seven Traits 
Description: The Hispo form is the wolf of nightmares, with massive jaws (even 
bigger than in Crinos form) and limbs that allow for bipedal movement even though 
going on four legs is more comfortable. Hispo bites inflict an extra level of damage. 
Hispo form weighs almost as much as Crinos, but is lower, much more suited for 
running. The Garou gains a one-Trait bonus to all Perception-related challenges 
while in Hispo form. On the other hand, the Hispo form has no hands and can only 
hold objects by biting them and hanging on with his teeth. 
Hispo form Garou can speak freely with Garou and wolves, but must spend a 
Willpower Trait for every couple of syllables directed at human listeners. 
Players should indicate Hispo form with forward-leaning posture. Many chronicles 
use a particular color of ribbon or other obvious tag to indicate the form, and as long 
as it doesn’t lead to extended pauses of play each time characters change form, this 
works well. 
Tough; Bestial x 2, Feral; no Manipulation-related Traits 


I 
Y 
Lupus: T h e  Wolf 
Trait Adjustments: Lithe, Quick, Rugged, Tireless, Tough; Bestial x 2, Feral x 2; no 
Shift Difficulty: Six Traits 
Description: This is the form of true wolves, instinct-driven, lean and formi- 
issipates, the jaws and claws retract so that only 
pus Garou in Lupus form inflict lethal damage; 
e in Lupus form.) The 
rm and gains two-Trait bonus to all 
enerate in Lupus form; lupus 
ith the individual Garou 
arms like animal paws. 
ious tag to indicate the 
form, and as long as it doesn’t lead to extended pauses of play each time characters 
change form, this works well. 
Manipulation-related Traits 
dable. Half or more oft 
Lupus form can run 
showing her heritage. 
Players should indicate Lu 
@enown 
Werewolves are social creatures. Both humans and wolves gather in commu- 
nities where they share with their comrades and compete both within the community 
for standing and together against other communities. The tribe, the sept and the 
pack all anchor the individual werewolf against the forces that drag her away from 
her duties. The community calms anger when it’s inappropriate, inspires rage when 
the time is right, teaches lore, advises, rescuesfromdistress and passes on the legacies 
of the past. In a way, nothing really ihappensi to werewolves until the community 
acknowledges it. 
Werewolves don’t just want to defeat Gaia’s enemies: They want to be honored 
for doing so. In their various ways, all werewolves want the fame their deeds should 
earn and fear dishonor more than honorable death. Renown Traits quantify this quest 
for honor. Characters don’t talk about Renown Traits, of course, but they do 
acknowledge the concept of Ranks earned through good deeds and lost in disgrace. 
Characters accumulate Temporary Renown Traits for various accomplishments, and 
eventually these become permanent Renown Traits. Experience can’t buy Renown - 
characters must earn it in play. 
Storytellers award Temporary Renown in one of three categories: Glory, Honor 
or Wisdom. Players can’t decide to move Traits from one category to another: Wisdom 
Traits can’t become Honor Traits, and so on. Storytellers can also remove Renown for 
inappropriate actions, and really severe violations of the Litany may earn punishment 
duties and even loss of Rank. 
Players and Storytellers alike should keep track of memorable deeds (good and 
bad) during play. After play, Storytellers compare notes and give awards. Some troupes 
hand out Renown after each session, others only whena story comes to completion and 
the troupe can play out a moot to confirm the awards. Storytellers very familiar with 
the system can hand out awards in the course of play, but don’t rush to do this until 
everyone involved feels comfortable with it. It’s far more disruptive to have to reverse 
adecisionmade in error than to wait a bit and make the right decision in the first place. 
176 


Each auspice has its own criteria for Rank advancement. The Garou Nation isn’t 
entirely stupid and does respect accomplishments outside the primary concerns of 
one’s auspice. An Ahroun who learns ancient lore and human history and skills of 
mediation may well be a better battlefield commander in the long run, but above all 
his duty is to lead and fight, and other matters are incidental except insofar as they help 
him do the job his position under the moon assigns him. 
All awards are Temporary Renown. Once a character accumulates 10 points in 
one of the three categories, she can seek to convert them into permanent Renown. 
Take the guidelines given here as just that: guidelines. If a troupe wants to emphasize 
the struggle against the most heinous enemies, play up Glory awards, while emphasiz- 
ing the spiritual side of the Garou should involve giving extra awards for wise behavior. 
Some actions call for Renown in more than one category. Awards of 8-10 Renown 
should be reserved for the greatest of deeds, the stuff of once-in-a-generation stories, 
while losses of more than five Traits should likewise reflect truly heinous failures. 
Storytellers and players should keep in mind two principles when assigning 
Renown for combat feats. 
Rank the threat as a whole. Killing four Black Spiral Dancers warrants 7 Glory, 
for defeating a very powerful Wyrm threat, rather than 20, for defeating four individual 
strong Wyrm threats. 
All participants get full Renown. If the pack works together in defeating a 
Nexus Crawler, they all get the Renown as if they’d struck the death blow themselves. 
In Garou society, the pack is an entity greater than the sum of its members. Individual 
achievements are good for bragging rights, but don’t affect Renown. 
I 
Sample Renown Awarbs 
Glory 
Sample Behavior 
Award 
*Proving bravery in non-lethal circumstances; 
.Surviving an Incapacitating wound; defeating a 
.Defeating an average threat; surviving a hostile 
*Defeating a strong threat; dying in a caern’s 
1 
2 
3 
5 
7 
-1 
-3 
-5 
participating in a just challenge 
minor threat 
Umbral Realm 
defense (posthumous) 
.Defeating a very powerful threat; sacrificing oneself 
to save a caern and its defenders 
*Refusing a sept position; suffering Fox frenzy 
*Not preventing the Wyrm overrunning a caern 
*Conscious cowardice leading to another Garou’s 
- 
death 


, 
Honor 
Sample Behavior 
*Helping guard a caem; performing regular duties 
and sept chores for a month 
Performing a moot or punishment rite; participating 
in a just challenge; protecting a helpless human 
*Mediating a dispute fairly and impartially; 
protecting the Veil through effective cover-up actions 
Being truthful in grave danger; dying in a caem’s 
defense (posthumous); protecting a helpless wolf 
*Enduring torture to protect fellow Garou; sacrificing 
oneself to save a caem and its defenders 
*Speaking without permission at a moot; not 
protecting a helpless human; maligning another tribe 
(without strong mitigating circumstances) 
*Refusing a sept position; failing to perform regular 
duties and caem chores for a month 
Participating in an unjust challenge; abandoning a 
post while on watch 
*Harming or rending the Veil; not protecting a 
helpless wolf or Garou 
Award 
1 
2 
3 
5 
7 
-1 
-2 
-3 
-5 
Wisbom 
Sample Behavior 
*Learning a new rite; creating a talen; healing a 
Garou outside one’s pack unselfishly 
*Giving good advice; discovering a fetish after 
following mystic signs and advice; summoning an 
Incama avatar 
*Proving with evidence that an area or object is of 
the Wyrm; successfully completing a spirit quest; 
defeating a spirit or someone else in a riddle contest 
*Giving a true prophetic warning; ending a threat 
without any Garou coming to serious harm 
*Discovering a lost ancient caem; discovering or 
creating a new Gift 
*Refusing a sept position; suffering a frenzy; missing 
a moot rite 
*Having poor relations with local Kinfolk; attacking 
a much more powerful force without aid 
Accidentally breaking a powerful and necessary 
Award 
1 
2 
3 
5 
7 
-1 
-3 
-5 
fetish 
I 
178 


Permanent Renown 
Once a character has 10 or more points of Temporary Renown in a category, she 
can attempt to convert the accumulation into a Permanent Renown Trait. If the effort 
works, she gains one more permanent Trait and her temporary Trait total returns to 
zero. 
The usual method to gain permanent Renown is to persuade a Garou outside 
one’s own pack and of equal or higher Rank to perform the Rite ofAccomplishment (see 
p. 160). If no available Garou who meets the criteria chooses to help, the seeker of 
Renown can challenge an elder (see “Advancing in Rank,” p. 180) once she has 
enough Temporary Renown. If she succeeds, she gains a point of permanent Renown 
and loses her Temporary Renown in that category; if she fails, she simply loses the 
Temporary Renown. This is risky, and elders can punish its abuse as a Litany violation 
in times of crisis, but it’s an option for characters who don’t get along well with most 
other Garou. 
In a few special cases, no sensible Garou will challenge a claim to increased 
Renown. This doesn’t happen often; most Garou never get to take advantage of the 
principle, and very, very few get to do so more than once. But some feats do warrant 
an increase in permanent Renown without rite or challenge, when all the higher- 
ranking Garou in the area acclaim a deed as sufficiently worthy. 
Losing Renown 
Garou do not inflict lasting shame lightly. Nonetheless, sufficiently foolish, 
destructive or wicked deeds bring acknowledgement just as heroic ones do. Minor 
transgressions warrant minor losses ofTemporary Renown- which a Garou can avoid 
altogether by persuading elders of mitigating circumstances - 
and punishment in the 
form of assigned duties, tests, ordeals and quests. The effort to restore a packmate’s lost 
Renown can provide stories for the whole pack, if Storytellers and players want to. 
A character who has fewer Temporary Renown Traits in a category than the 
penalty assigned loses a permanent Renown Trait, which is converted into 10 
temporary Traits to help cover the deficit. 
Scanbal 
Actingfoolishly or making heinous mistakes draws the attention of the Ragabash, 
who may bring up the matter during Renownawards. The Ragabash may then attempt 
to negate the award by speaking scandalously about the recipient, pointing out his less- 
than-stellar acts (especially if they were performed to acquire the very Renown the 
target is being awarded). The scandal must have an element of truth in it, and must 
be agreed to by the Ragabash elder of the sept (so the accusing Ragabash must have 
some proof). It is up to the Galliards to confirm the scandal and agree that the Renown 
should be lost. Only one Renown award may be affected per scandal 
Special Consiberations 
Storytellers should keep characters’ breed, auspice and tribe in mind when 
awarding or taking away Renown. Ahroun in Fox frenzy face worse scorn than 
Ragabash because it’s particularly humiliating to allegedly brave warriors. Philodox 
caught in acts of petty theft face particularly harsh sanction because they’re supposed 
to be moral exemplars. Conversely, Ragabash who face overwhelming odds and defend 


~
-
a
d
i
~
/
1 
% I  
J a caern at great cost are likely to win extra Renown for doing what all Garou should, 
in theory, do but which isn’t part of their particular nature. 
As with all awards of Renown, the extent to which characters earn greater or 
lesser bonuses helps set a chronicle’s tone. Storytellers should be slow to impose too 
many penalties or too few rewards, though, if they want players to keep taking risks and 
challenges. 
Optional Rule: Tribal Reputation 
The Storytellers of some chronicles may wish to play up tribal stereotypes, so that 
“everyone knows” the Get of Fenris tend to be supremacist, bigoted and uncoopera- 
tive, but incredibly heroic defenders of all Garou when the big fight comes, while 
Children of Gaia are wise and often insightful even if a bit too wimpy, and so on. The 
Storytellers may then award extra Renown for acting in ways that reinforce the tribal 
image. They may also award extra for behavior that upholds universal Garou principles 
and honors the spirit of the tribe while not conforming to stereotypes. Players will do 
what the Storytellers reward, so consider consequences. Modifications like this 
shouldn’t be worth more than a couple of Renown Traits per story in any event. 
A character is eligible to advance in Rank when he has the number of Permanent 
Renown Traits indicated on the chart below. Note that having the Traits is only the 
beginning. The character must then challenge a werewolf at the rank the character 
aspires to or at a higher rank. The elder chooses the nature of the contest - 
there are 
several traditional ones, but the elder is free to innovate and improvise. Having the 
necessary Renown entitles the character to make a challenge, rather than guarantee- 
ing Rank right away. 
Cub : Rank Zero 
Laws of the Wild, Revised Edition, assumes that most characters begin play with 
some experience of Garou life. Cubs don’t have any. They’ve just gone through their 
First Change and have just begun to deal with the complex new world they’ve entered. 
Cubs enjoy a few advantages: They can’t be challenged without loss of honor on the 
challenger’s part, though they are subject to routine pack, sept and tribal discipline, 
and most older Garou come to a cub’s aid in time of danger. On the other hand, cubs 
can only learn breed and tribe Gifts; auspice Gifts come once a cub undergoes a Rite 
of Passage. Many septs designate a Garou as Den Mother or Den Father with the 
responsibility to watch over the cubs and teach them what they must know to survive 
as full-fledged members of Garou society. 
Gifts Available: None at character creation; may learn breed and tribe Gifts 
Maximum Traits per Category: 10 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis and Rage: 3 
Requirements: None 
Duties: Learn as much as you can about Garou society and your place in it. 
Cliath : 
Rank One 
This is the Rank most players will begin at. The character creation rules assume 
Cliath status. Cliath have completed their Rite of Passage and are accepted as a full- 
fledged (though still young) member of the Garou Nation. They cannot hold sept 
180 


I 
rn 
Rank 
1 (Cliath) 
2 (Fostern) 
3 (Adren) 
4 (Athro) 
5 (Elder) 
Rank 
1 (Cliath) 
2 (Fostern) 
3 (Adren) 
4 (Athro) 
5 (Elder) 
Rank 
1 (Cliath) 
2 (Fostern) 
3 (Adren) 
4 (Athro) 
5 (Elder) 
Rank 
1 (Cliath) 
2 (Fostern) 
3 (Adren) 
4 (Athro) 
5 (Elder) 
Rank 
1 (Cliath) 
2 (Fostern) 
3 (Adren) 
4 (Athro) 
5 (Elder) 
Glory 
0 
1 
2 
4 
4 
Glory 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Glory 
2 
4 
4 
7 
9 
Glory 
2 
4 
6 
9 
10 
qenown Chart 
gagabash 
Any Combination of Traits 
3 
7 
13 
19 
25 
Cheurge 
Honor 
0 
0 
1 
2 
9 
@hilobox 
Honor 
4 
6 
8 
10 
Galliarb 
Honor 
0 
0 
2 
5 
Ahroun 
Honor 
1 
2 
3 
5 
9 
Wisdom 
3 
5 
7 
9 
10 
Wisdom 
0 
1 
2 
4 
9 
Wisdom 
1 
2 
4 
6 
9 
Wisdom 
0 
1 
1 
2 
4 
I 
rn 
181 


office or lead outside their pack, and they are constantly watched. Now they must 
submit to Garou justice, and there’s little margin for clowning around or taunting their 
elders. Gaia’s warriors do not tolerate insubordination in the ranks do not find 
pranking of superiors and veterans amusing, and do harshly penalize young Garou who 
fail to grasp the basic realities of their condition. Cliath are expected to explore their 
new abilities and demonstrate their strengths individually and in cooperation with 
their allies. 
Gifts Available: Basic 
Maximum Traits per Category: 11 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis and Rage: 5 
Requirements: In addition to Renown requirements, Cliath must learn three 
initial Gifts and swear loyalty to their sept or tribe. This usually takes place at a 
ceremony immediately after the Rite of Passage. 
Duties: Serve your sept regularly. This may involve minor jobs such as assisting 
the Keeper of the Land, patrol and guard duty or helping elders prepare for complicated 
rites. You are expected to do the duties assigned to you and to do them well. You are 
not expected to find it all fun, but you may learn something and may sometimes get 
the opportunity to earn Renown. 
Privileges: Cliath can petition for justice, challenge for higher Rank when they 
have sufficient Renown and can usually enter the caem. Elders allow Cliath some 
measure of independence and just plain screwing up, but being young and inexperi- 
enced isn’t license for abuse. Storytellers should feel free to rein in characters whose 
players seem to regard the Litany and social hierarchy as optional. 
Postern: Rank ~
w
o
 
Most Garou who hold positions at the sept level have achieved Fostem rank. 
They’ve made some mark on the world and gotten the Renown to prove it, and they’ve 
survived dangers that destroyed their less successful peers. Fostem are considered 
mature in Garou Society. They are expected to attend moots, fulfill the roles assigned 
to their auspice and to master the ways of their breed and tribe. 
Gifts Available: Basic 
Rites Available: Basic 
Maximum Traits per Category: 12 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis, and Rage: 6 
Requirements: See Renown chart 
Duties: Serve your sept. In addition to the basic duties you’ve performed before, 
you now bear greater responsibility for its safety and success. You will sometimes 
command younger Garou, and their actions will reflect back on your ability. 
Privileges: Fostem can learn Basic Rites as well as petitioning for justice and 
challenging for Rank when appropriate. They can usually gain access to the caem, and 
can request moon bridges for serious tasks. (Frivolous requests eventually earn loss of 
Wisdom.) The term “fostern” also refers to pack brothers and sisters, and within the 
pack Rank distinctions are less important, though they never become trivial. 
Abren: Rank Three 
Adren are part of the elite within Garou society. Most Garou don’t make it this 
far, whether it’s because of dying along the way or because of never managing to earn 
the necessary Renown. Adren lead the Garou Nation in routine matters. 
182 


Gifts Available: Basic, Intermediate 
Rites Available: Basic 
Maximum Traits per Category: 14 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis and Rage: 7 
Requirements: In addition to Renown requirements, Adren must be in training 
for one of the sept’s positions. They must challenge and defeat a fellow Adren in a 
contest given elder approval. (This doesn’t affect the victor’s Renown, though a 
particularly humiliating defeat may cost the loser some Glory.) The challenge may be 
physical, mental, social or something else altogether. 
Duties: Serve the elder who trains you; this will take most of your time. You may 
take on lesser sept offices like Keeper of the Land, Gatekeeper, Guardian and Den 
Mother, and performing them well shows your fitness and dedication. Train Fostern 
and Cliath so that someday they might do as well as you, or even better. Remember 
that while your responsibilities are sometimes great, your authority is often limited, 
and you will need to use ingenuity as well as force to do your duty. 
Privileges: Fostern and Cliath must address Adren with terms of respect, or the 
Adren can demand justice (and receive it). Adren who know the Rite of Binding can 
create talens for themselves and others. They’re known beyond their own sept, 
generally within their own tribe. They can demand that the sept provide living space 
(even if just communal quarters), though the demand often seems petty or even 
unwise. 
Note: Most Adren are in line for sept positions. They’re under scrutiny. Ragabash 
can earn Renown for exposing their failings and vices, Theurges for exposing their 
follies, and so on. Adren are expected to set good examples. 
Athro: Rank Pour 
Athro are known widely in the Garou Nation. Not many Adren survive and 
prosper enough to make to this Rank, and all who achieve it have earned respect and 
authority. Other Garou come to them for advice and respect the answers they get. 
Gifts Available: Basic, Intermediate 
Rites Available: Basic, Intermediate 
Maximum Traits per Category: 16 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis and Rage: 8 
Requirements: In addition to Renown requirements, Athro should fill one of the 
elder positions in a sept: elder of an auspice, elder of a tribe, elder of a breed, sept leader, 
Warder, Master of the Rite or Master of the Challenge. Some duties overlap, and an 
Athro may hold more than one of these positions. Athro can only advance to elder 
rank by challenging the current holder of one of these positions or by waiting for a 
vacancy to open. 
Duties: Lead your pack, your sept or both. Be ready to receive guiding visions, to 
organize and lead quests and missions. You must face danger to set the example for 
others, and must not court dishonor by commanding others to take risks you’re not 
prepared to face yourself. 
Privileges: Only a sept’s council of elders can judge Athro; all challenges and 
complaints go through them. Athro get their pick of juicy assignments, and are 
considered teachers by all younger Garou. 
183 


c 
Elders are at the peak of their ability as Garou. They stand forth as paragons of 
Gifts Available: Basic, Intermediate, Advanced 
Rites Available: Basic, Intermediate, Advanced 
Maximum Traits per Category: 18 
Maximum Willpower, Gnosis and Rage: 10 
Requirements: In addition to Renown requirements, elders must hold at least 
one of the sept’s elder positions: elder of an auspice, elder of a tribe, elder of a breed, 
sept leader, Warder, Master of the Rite or Master of the Challenge. Elders can be elder 
of a tribe, auspice or breed and also sept leader, Master of the Rite or Master of the 
Challenge. 
Duties: As auspice, tribe or breed elder, you are ultimately responsible for the 
well-being of all Garou of that type within your sept. They need you to instruct them, 
lead them, represent their interests when conflicts arise.. . and also to discipline them 
when they fail. You can veto Renown nominations, and should take this responsibility 
seriously. As elder of a tribe, you can adopt new members and expel existing ones who 
commit sufficiently heinous deeds. As elder of a breed, you are expected to deal with 
the non-Garou population of that sort in the surrounding area. 
Privileges: Only a council of elders can judge elders. Elders are largely free to do 
as they wish as long as they discharge their duties. 
Storyteller Note: Elders should always be very much in the minority. In small 
chronicles, think carefully before allowing many players to advance their characters 
to elder ranks. 
their respective communities, receiving respect and obedience from all others. 
Genu ncia t ion 
Occasionally a Garou rejects the auspice she was born under in favor of another. 
Most Garou see this as an insult to Gaia and the Garou Nation, though sometimes a 
perceptive elder recognizes that a Garou’s inner fate happens not to correspond to the 
outward manifestation ofmoon phase. The Rite ofRenunciation (seep. 153) allows the 
Garou to give up her current auspice and station to claim another. She must adopt a 
new name, and give up all but three permanent Renown Traits, thereby starting over 
at Rank 1. She doesn’t lose the Gifts she knows, but cannot learn any more from the 
list for the old auspice; at the end of the Rite of Renunciation she may ask a spirit to 
teach her the first Gift suitable to her new auspice. 
As far as the Garou Nation is concerned, the Garou is now a new individual. It’s 
bad manners for old acquaintances or even loved ones outside the pack to speak to her 
with familiarity - 
everything begins again for her. 
Renunciation is sometimes assigned as punishment for crimes that don’t quite 
warrant death. It’s also sometimes a way of coping with grief, when a Garou wishes to 
continue living but can’t deal with a series of horrible losses and feels a new identity 
would help isolate the old pain. Sometimes an internal sense of failure motivates the 
flight to a new identity. Sometimes the Garou simply realizes that what she does best 
isn’t what her auspice does best. 
184 


States of m i n b  ana Soul 
Frenzy 
Sometimes Garou live up perfectly to the folklore image of werewolves as 
snarling uncontrollable beasts. Every Garou carries Rage in his heart, and sometimes 
it erupts to overwhelm the Garou’s judgment and perceptions. Anytime a character 
makes a Rage challenge, follow it with a Frenzy Challenge, a Static Willpower 
Challenge against the character’s permanent Rage total. If Willpower wins, the 
character retains control; otherwise the character enters frenzy and can only abort 
the frenzy by spending a Willpower Trait and forfeiting any remaining actions for 
the rest of the turn. 
Garou with fewer than four permanent Rage Traits frenzy only in really extreme 
circumstances. When current Rage exceeds permanent Rage, use the current total 
instead. 
There are two types of frenzy. The character enters whichever best suits the 
situation at hand. 
Berserk frenzy reduces the Garou to seeing the world in blood-drenched 
monochrome, aware of motion but not of details and driven to make everything 
moving bleed until it stops. Berserk Garou shift into Crinos or Hispo (at the player’s 
choice) and attack.. . something. Garou with permanent Gnosis higher than perma- 
nent Rage do not attack packmates except in the Thrall of the Wyrm (see below), 
though they do attack everything else moving in the area. Garou with less permanent 
Gnosis than permanent Rage don’t make an exception for packmates. A Berserk 
Garou can spend one Willpower Trait for a modicum of control - 
the Storyteller 
directs the character to one of the actually hostile targets nearby. 
Berserk Garou retain no memory of what happens in frenzy and usually collapse 
from exhaustion when it ends. 
Fox frenzy reduces the Garou to pure terror and a drive to flee. Fox-frenzying 
Garou shift to Lupus form and run as fast as possible away from the threat that induced 
frenzy. They attack anything that gets in their way, but only to make it get out of the 
way. They seek out some safe hiding place and stay there until the frenzy passes. 
Both forms of frenzy prohibit the use of special maneuvers and pack tactics. The 
character can bite, claw or run, and that’s all. The character canspend for extraactions 
but cannot engage in complex actions, use Gifts, step sideways and so on. Frenzying 
Garou ignore all wound penalties until the frenzy passes. 
Frenzy ends with the triggering situation. Once it passes, make a Static Willpower 
Challenge against permanent Rage to recover. Repeat this challenge each turn until 
its succeeds. 
Many situations sometimes motivate Garou to tap into their Rage for assistance 
in battle and related challenges. Common triggers include embarrassment and 
humiliation, strong emotions, extreme hunger, confinement and helplessness, en- 
emies’ taunts, the threat of large quantities of silver and being wounded or seeing a 
packmate wounded. Storytellers may sometimes require a Rage Challenge even 
without the player’s desire for it, and Garou can decide to spend Rage on their own 
initiative. 


The difficulty of a Rage challenge depends on the phase of the moon: 
Moon Phase 
Difficulty 
New 
8 Traits 
Crescent 
7 Traits 
Half 
6 Traits 
Gibbous 
5 Traits 
Full 
4 Traits 
Subtract one Trait if the current phase is the character's auspice moon, or if the 
character is in Crinos. (Apply only one of these modifiers; they're not cumulative.) 
y 
T h e  Thrall of the Wyrm 
When a character enters frenzy, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the Garou 
has gone beyond the bounds of useful Rage and into spiritual territory occupied by the 
Wyrm. Willpower cannot bring the Garou out of this state, and normal frenzy 
conditions gain horrific complications. 
Homid Garou become infected by the Eater-of-Souls, which drives them to acts 
of cannibalism on humans, wolves and other Garou. Whenever a homid Garou in 
Thrall kills or incapacitates a target, make a Static Mental Challenge against seven 
Traits to avoid the compulsion to spend the next turn feeding on the body. 
Metis Garou come under the attention of the Defiler Wyrm, which drives them 
to attacks ofpsycho-sexual perversion. A metis who kills or incapacitates a target while 
in Thrall must make a Static Mental Challenge against seven Traits to avoid the 
compulsion to spend the next turn defiling the helpless body. 
Lupus Garou are sought out by the Beast-of-War, which amplifies their natural 
predatory instincts to insane heights. A Garou who kills or incapacitates a foe while 
in Thrall must make a Static Mental Challenge against seven Traits to avoid the 
compulsion to keep attacking until the target is dismembered and strewn around. 
The Thrall terrifies Garou. Normal frenzy serves as a defense mechanism, a 
survival trait given the hostile world the Garou confront. Wyrm-frenzy corrupts that 
sanctuary and forces Garou to examine the Wyrm within themselves, something very 
few want to do. Some Garou go so far as to commit suicide after Wyrm-frenzy rather 
than deal with its consequences. 
The Curse 
Humans and animals alike can subconsciously sense the predatory nature of 
Garou even when the Garou aren't attacking and are simply proceeding calmly in their 
breed forms. Any human being with current Willpower less than the Garou's Rage 
seeks to avoid contact with the Garou, whether it's just crossing the street to avoid that 
looming weirdo or breaking into panicked flight. Wolves respond the same way to 
Garou in lupus forms. Garou call this phenomenon the Curse, since it makes normal 
relationships with many humans and wolves impossible. Garou can seldom maintain 
families among humans or wolves. Only among other werewolves do Garouget to relax 
and express the whole range ofemotions they feel.. . and court violations of the Litany. 
186 


The melirium 
The custom called the Veil dictates that the Garou must never reveal themselves 
to humanity. Their existence is to remain secret, for both sacred and practical reasons. 
Humans tend to hunt what they fear, and they have a great deal of reason to fear the 
Garou. 
The Impergium has left a permanent impression upon humanity. Just as most 
humans instinctively fear snakes or spiders, they also fear the werewolves who have 
hunted and preyed upon them for thousands of years. Since Garou in Crinos tend to 
be far more dangerous than any snake or spider, they trigger a much more extreme 
reaction, called the Delirium. 
The Delirium acts as both curse and blessing. It fuzzes over people’s memories, 
causing them to rationalize what they saw. This means that they’re more likely to 
believe that they saw their neighbor trying on a Halloween costume than they are to 
believe that they saw a werewolf. It also means that they may act completely 
irrationally, perhaps endangering themselves and the Garou. They may run off to the 
police screaming about the escaped wolf or bear that needs to be hunted down. If the 
Garou is someone they knew, they certainly will never ever feel quite so comfortable 
around him again, even if they do rationalize what they saw. 
People who are exposed repeatedly to the Delirium will likely develop permanent 
derangements. 
Storytellers may allow characters with Occult to make a Static Mental Challenge 
against nine Traits to move up one level on the reaction. Characters from cultures 
which suffered the Impergium to a lesser degree, like Native Americans and Australian 
Aborigines, may also move up a level. Photographs and other after-the-fact data don’t 
trigger fear reactions, though they do motivate rationalization and dismissal. Kinfolk 
are immune to the Delirium regardless of Willpower. 
States of the 6 o b y  
Jnjury 
The health level lets players and Storytellers keep track of damage characters 
suffer, regardless of whether it came from accidents, mortal weapons or supernatural 
powers. Every character has seven health levels. When a character takes a wound, a 
health level is marked off. The last level marked off indicates the character’s current 
health, and what penalty (if any) the character suffers on all challenges until wounds 
get healed. As healing takes place, wounds get erased until the character resumes full 
health. 
Characters can suffer three types of damage: 
Bashing damage comes from blunt attacks at relatively low speeds -punches, 
Lethal damage comes from more deadly attacks, capable of rupturing the body 
Aggravated damage comes from great power, mundane or supernatural - 
fire, 
kicks, clubs, etc. 
and spilling blood - 
knives, bullets, car collisions, etc. 
acid, sustained chainsaw blows, werewolf claws and teeth, etc. 
181 
\s 
\- 


I 
I 
aelirium Chart 
YU 
Willpower 
Yo of the Human 
Forget? 
Reaction of 
1 
10% 
Yes 
Catatonic Fear: 
This poor unfortunate seems to have a very close link to his ancestral 
memories. He rolls up into a ball and prays that everything will go away. He 
will suppress the memory of the entire experience, remembering nothing. 
2 
20% 
Yes 
Panic: 
This individual runs as far away as possible, even running through glass 
windows and over cliffs in her terror. All she will remember later is the intense 
feeling of terror, and the certainty that something threatened her. 
3 
18% 
Yes 
Disbelief: 
The person insists that the Garou isn’t real. He attributes the wolf-man to stress, 
a trick of the light, drugs, drinking, flashbacks, insanit, or any number of things. 
4 
15% 
Yes 
Berserk: 
This person reacts with blind, frenzied fear. She feels that she must act in some 
way, whether that action is to run away, destroy things (breaking windows, 
shooting holes in the floor), or even attack the Garou. All she remembers later 
is the sight of something big, hairy, and perhaps imonstrous.? 
5 
13% 
Yes 
Terror: 
This reaction is not as intense as Panic, but similar in nature. The person still 
moves away from the Garou as quickly as possible, but he remembers to lock 
doors, get into his car and drive away, etc. Later he remembers seeing 
something hairy, big and mean. 
6 
10% 
Yes 
Conciliatory: 
This person will do or say almost anything to avoid getting hurt, even though 
she is on the verge of collapse from fear. She may remember physical details of 
the Garou, such as fur color or height. 
7 
7% 
No, but rationalizes 
Controlled Fear: 
Perhaps this person is a war veteran or worked as a cop for some number of 
years. He may be terrified, but he keeps a cool exterior. Later he remembers 
most details of the situation and knows that what he saw wasn’t natural. 
8 
5 ?‘o 
No, but rationalizes 
Curiosity: 
Instead of fear, this individual displays curiosity. Perhaps she’s a researcher or 
just a nut. Maybe she thinks the Garou is a person suffering from a disease that 
causes excessive body hair or Bigfoot himself. She may try to study the Garou 
from a distance or sell his story to the tabloids. Later she’s likely to rationalize 
the story away. 
9 
1.5% 
No 
Bloodlust: 
Rather than curiosity, this person reacts with anger. He runs for his gun rather 
than a camera or notebook. Perhaps one of his distant ancestors killed a Garou 
once. Later he remembers the encounter quite well, although he might 
rationalize the Garou as a particularly large or mutated animal. 
10 
0.5% 
No 
No Reaction/Blase 
This person displays no unusual reaction at all, whether from shock or just a 
strong constitution. If spoken to she responds as she would to a normal person. 
Later she remembers everything in perfect detail. 
Population 
Observer 
I 
188 


\ TM 
Each character in Laws of the Wild has seven health levels, unless specificallv LS 
noted otherwise: Healthy, Healthy, Bruised, Bruised, Bruised, Wounded, Wounded, 
Incapacitated and Dead. 
Healthy: The character may have minor nicks and abrasions but can function 
without impairment. Whatever limitations the character may suffer from damage are 
purely in the realm of roleplaying - 
fatigue, scruffed-up appearance and the like. 
Bruised: The character has taken noticeable injury and suffers a one-Trait 
penalty on all tied challenges. 
Wounded: The character has significant injuries in one or more locations 
(open wounds, broken bones) and must risk an additional Trait to initiate any 
challenge. The character’s opponent automatically wins on ties and powers that allow 
the character to win on ties instead let him resolve the tie normally. (The character 
can overbid as usual.) 
Incapacitated: The character is on the brink of death. She is unconscious for 
at least one turn, and must thereafter make a Static Physical Challenge (retest with 
Primal-Urge) against four Traits + 1 for each level of damage she’s suffering from at the 
moment to wake up. A critically injured werewolf can try to draw on her Rage to 
remain active. This requires a Rage Challenge against eight Traits. If successful, the 
characters heals one health level, and automatically begins the next turn in a berserk 
frenzy. Characters can try this only once per scene; if they get critically injured again, 
they’re stuck with the consequences. 
A character who suffers one or more levels of lethal damage while Incapacitated 
reverts to breed form and collapses. Any further damage of any kind will kill her. 
Otherwise she regains one health level eight hours until able to regain consciousness 
and shift to a form which regenerates fully. An Incapacitated character who suffers one 
or more levels of aggravated damage dies. 
Dead: Dead is dead. 
Garou regenerate one level of bashing or lethal damage every turn. Homid and 
lupus Garou regenerate about one health level a day in their natural form while in 
critical condition if they rest. Trying to move around and do anything active slows the 
pace of healing to normal human rates (see below). Metis Garou regenerate at the 
rapid rate in every form. No Garou of any breed can regenerate aggravated damage: It 
always heals at the rate of one level per day of full rest. Homid Garou can heal from 
aggravated damage only in forms other than Homid, and Lupus Garou can do so only 
in forms other than Lupus. 
Sources o f  Injury 
Falling 
Falling characters one level of bashing damage for every 10 feet of vertical 
distance. Characters who fall more than 100 feet hit terminal velocity, and suffer 10 
health levels of lethal damage no matter how far they plummet after that. 
Fire 
Fire damage is always aggravated. Torches and small fires touching just part of the 
body inflict one level ofdamage each turn while bonfires and flames covering half the 
body inflict two levels per turn and infernos and flames covering the whole body inflict 
three levels per turn. Garou can attempt to soak this damage, but must make a Static 
Physical Challenge to do so - 
against three Traits for candles and other sources of first 
degree bums, five Traits for torches and other sources of second degree bums, seven 
189 


3 
Traits for Bunsen burners and other sources of third-degree bums, nine Traits for 
chemical fires or 10 Traits for molten metal. Success removes one level of damage from 
the fire that turn. 
Disease 
Garou heal more rapidly than humans do, so diseases affect them but not as 
severely. A disease inflicts a set level of health levels over time and then runs its course; 
surviving is a matter of healing in time to prevent incapacitation and death. Garou 
never get minor ailments like colds and flu, and even serious diseases seldom do lasting 
harm thanks to the power of regeneration - 
though they can still serve as carriers. 
Only diseases of supernatural origin can seriously and permanently affect Garou. 
Poison 
Poisons also have little effect on Garou. Garou who want to get drunk, stoned or 
otherwise chemically altered must do so in Homid form, with its lesser native 
resistance, or use the Rite of Spirit Awakening to rouse the drug’s spirit. Supernatural 
toxins do full damage, and the most potent are considered aggravated damage. 
Suffocation and Drowning 
Garou can hold their breath for a while, but then start drowning or choking just 
like people do. One Stamina-related Trait (see p. 72) lets the Garou hold his breath 
for 30 seconds, two for one minute, three for two minutes, four for four minutes, five 
for eight minutes, six for 15 minutes, seven for 20 minutes, and eight or more for 30 
minutes. After the time limit expires, he can spend one or more Willpower Traits. 
Each Trait spent gives him a safe time of 30 seconds (if he has three or fewer Stamina- 
related traits) or one minute (if he has four or more). 
Trying to hold one’s breath and do something strenuous uses up oxygen much 
more quickly: a character can fight while holding his breath only for one turn per 
Stamina-related Trait. 
Once the safe time expires, the character takes one level of lethal damage per 
turn. He can’t regenerate this until he can breathe again. When he reaches Incapaci- 
tated, he reverts to breed form and will die in a number of turns equal to his Physical 
Traits. 
Radiation and Toxic Waste 
Unless something supernatural is complicating the issue, treat radiation and 
Silver 
Silver is the metal of the moon, and Garou are uniquely vulnerable to the favored 
metalofthecelestine whogives themsomuch. It’snot easy tomakeeffectiveweapons 
out of silver, but skilled blacksmiths and gunsmiths do manage. A Garou suffers one 
level of aggravated damage every turn she’s in contact with silver, except for homid 
and lupus Garou in their respective breed forms. Garou can only soak damage from 
silver weapons in Homid form. 
Garou can carry silver, but it costs them Gnosis thanks to physical allergy and the 
spiritual “buzz” of the nearby threat. Lost Gnosis returns after aday away from all silver. 
For every five silver objects the members of a pack carry, all packmates lose a Gnosis 
Trait. Carrying a great many silver objects, particularly bullets, may also cost the pack 
Honor or Wisdom. A klaive costs the packmates a Gnosis Trait per day, and a grand 
klaive costs them two Gnosis each per day. 
toxic waste like fire and extreme heat, but taking twice as long to heal. 
190 


Garou take pride in displaying the consequences of honorable combat. Gaia 
made them to fight, and defeating superior forces at cost to oneself is a great way to win 
Renown. Garou heal most damage, but some severe wounds leave behind reminders 
of themselves on a lasting basis. Wounds inflicted by Garou leave battle scars as do the 
wounds made by Triat minions hostile to the Garou. Other damage may or may not, 
at Storyteller discretion. 
The list here is not exhaustive, and troupes should feel free to work up fresh types 
to suit their chronicles. Healing the battle scar costs the character the Renown that 
came with the scar. 
Superficial scars - 
Large, ugly masses of scars that remain hairless in all forms. 
(Some people find such things powerfully sexy.) They may reduce Appearance-related 
Traits in extreme cases. One temporary Glory. 
Deep scars - 
Similar to superficial scars, but affecting muscles as well; they 
ache when the humidity changes. One temporary Glory. 
Improper bone setting - 
A bone broke and didn’t heal right, leaving behind 
a slight limp or other problem. Two or more levels of lethal damage to that area in one 
turn break the bone again, inflicting an additional level of lethal damage. One 
temporary Glory. 
Cosmetic damage - 
Anything visible and not covered by other entries: 
missing ears, harelip, exposed skull and the like. It looks grotesque to humans and 
impressive to Garou. The Garou suffers a one-Trait penalty on Social Challenges 
involving human beings unless the damage is covered for the duration of the 
interaction. Two temporary Glory. 
Broken jaw - 
Similar to improper bone setting; the character’s jaw was 
shattered and is now out of alignment, creating slurred speech. Storytellers can reduce 
experience and/or Renown awards for players who don’t roleplay this out. The 
character suffers a two-Trait penalty to communication-related challenges while 
using human speech. One temporary Glory. 
Missing eye - 
One of the character’s eyes was gouged. Increase the difficulty 
of challenges involving depth perception, including the use of missile and thrown 
weapons, by three Traits, and of Perception-related challenges by two Traits. Two 
temporary Glory. 
Gelded -The character’s reproductive system was damaged enough to make 
offspring out of the question. Gelded male characters aren’t necessarily impotent, but 
suffer a two-Trait penalty on seduction and Animal Attraction-related challenges. 
One temporary Glory. 
Collapsed lung - 
One of the character’s lungs was punctured in battle, and 
it’s hard to breathe while exerting a lot of effort. The character suffers a one-Trait 
penalty on Stamina-related challenges, and an additional one Trait for every five turns 
of sustained exertion; she can hold her breath only half as long as other Garou. One 
temporary Glory. 
Missing fingers -The character has lost at least three fingers on one hand. 
Challenges involving use of that hand suffer a three-Trait increase to their difficulty, 
and claw damage from the hand is halved (round down). Two temporary Glory. 
Maimed limb - 
One of the character’s limbs is now damaged badly enough to 
be useless. If it’s a leg, the character moves at half normal speed in all forms; if it’s an 
191 


arm, the character moves at three-quarters speed in Hispo and Lupus forms. The limb 
can’t be used at all. Three temporary Glory. 
Spinal damage - 
The character’s spine was fractured, and now he has trouble 
keeping his balance. He loses one Dexterity-related trait permanently (at least until 
the damage is healed), suffers a two-Trait penalty in initiative challenges and must 
spend a Willpower Trait to participate in any challenge involving balance, precision 
or remaining still. Two temporary Glory. 
Brain damage - 
Severe damage to the head or prolonged lack of oxygen has 
reduced the character’s mental faculties. She loses one Mental Trait permanently (at 
least until the damage is healed), and loses two Traits from among Gnosis, Willpower 
and knowledge-related abilities at the Storyteller’s discretion. The character is likely 
partially amnesiac. Two temporary Glory. 
Aging 
Not many Garou suffer natural deaths. Their innate regenerative ability could let 
them live to 120 or more in good health, but their nature as warriors gets in the way. 
Those who begin to suffer loss of effectiveness thanks to aging generally honor the 
Litany and choose to die then, rather than lingering on into uselessness. Note that 
ieffectivei is a variable target, and some Garouno longer able to rush into battle remain 
useful for a long time as advisors and ritemasters. Over time, aging erodes Mental and 
Physical Trait totals and makes it harder to regain Rage. Storytellers can set the pace 
of this decay to suit the needs of their chronicles if it ever becomes an issue. 
Combat 
Garou fight. Gaia made them Her warriors, and they’re good at it. Violence isn’t 
the only way to pursue the war against Gaia’s enemies, of course. As human strategists 
have noted for thousands of years, persuading your enemy to join you is best of all, 
persuading the enemy not to fight is next best, and after that, defeating the enemy with 
no more force than necessary is good. Some of the creatures which serve the Wyrm - 
and the Weaver and the Wyld, who are just as insane and just as dangerous in their 
own ways -cannot 
be reasoned with or stopped by anything short of destruction. In 
other cases, the Garou enjoy more options, and Gaia expects Her creations to make 
use of the full range of the potential she’s given them. 
This section covers what happens when violence is the answer. 
Mass Combat 
It’s a fact of life that sooner or later a large group of characters will decide to mix 
it up. Group challenges can seem intimidating even to experienced Narrators and 
Storytellers; these rules are meant to streamline the process and make such situations 
easier to resolve, rather than devolving into endless matches of Rock-Paper-Scissors. 
First of all, find who is challenging whom. The easiest way is to count to three and 
have everyone point to the person they wish to target that turn. If no one is being 
challenged by more than one person, then challenges are carried out normally. 
If one character is challenged by several targets, or tries to challenge multiple 
opponents at once, resolve it in the following manner. First deal with groups in the 
order of largest to smallest, just for ease of play. Each attacker must bid an appropriate 
192 


Trait as normal for the challenge required; logistics put a limit of up to five characters [si 
L 
attacking another character at once. 
Next, the defender character must bid enough Traits to counter every opponent 
in the group; if he does not have enough Traits, he must relent to the rest of his 
opponents (although he may choose which ones he relents to). Resolve such relented 
challenges first - 
it is very possible the defender may fall before the rest of the group 
can act! 
Finally, the defender and any remaining attackers engage in one simultaneous 
test. The defender then compares his sign to each of the attacker’s signs, applying the 
appropriate results. Thus, if the defending character throws Scissors and his attackers 
throw Rock, Scissors, Paper and Paper, the defender is considered to have lost to the 
first challenger, tied the second (resolved like any other tie) and beaten the last two. 
The defenders and attackers lose Traits bid in any given loss. If the defender in the 
previous example had bid one Trait against every attacker, he would have lost one 
Trait to the first attacker, and an additional Trait if he had lost the tie as well. 
Once the tests have been made, they are resolved in the standard order of actions 
and initiative. It is possible for a defender to lose Traits to the first attackers and then 
lose a tie to an attacker later in the same mob challenge. That’s OK - 
the first 
attackers “softened up” the defender. However, unless the defender has a special power 
which allows him to take multiple actions, he may only attempt to injure one of his 
attackers, and it must be one who lost a challenge. If none of the attackers lose, the 
defender simply suffers the results of their actions. 
When the defender in a mob challenge uses Abilities or other powers to gain 
retests, each attacker’s challenge is treated as a separate test. Thus, a defender would 
need five Melee Traits in order to retest against five attackers in a melee combat. 
Wea pa n s 
For obvious reasons, no real weapons are ever allowed in Mind’s Eye Theatre 
games. Even nonfunctional props are forbidden if they can be mistaken for weapons. 
This system does not use props of any kind, nor are players required (or allowed) to 
strike one another. Instead, characters should use weapon cards, which display the 
Traits and pertinent details of a particular weapon. 
A weapon gives its wielder extra Traits for combat or other appropriate chal- 
lenges. Sometimes this advantage is offset by a disadvantage in terms of a Negative 
Trait. Each weapon has one to six extra Traits that may be used in any challenge in 
which the weapon is employed. These Traits cannot be used as an initial bid. Instead, 
they add to the user’s total when she is comparing Traits. In addition, some weapons 
have special abilities that may be used, such as causing extra levels of damage or 
affecting more than one target. 
Statistics for weapons are written on cards and carried along with your character 
card. Weapon cards specify the capacities of each weapon and allow other players to 
see that you actually possess a weapon. When you have a weapon card in your hand, 
you are considered to be holding the weapon. 
Some weapons have Negative Traits that can be used by the wielder’s opponent 
in precisely the same way as regularNegativeTraits. The Weapon’sNegativeTraitscan 
only be used against the wielder of that weapon. Negative Traits for a weapon must be 
appropriate to the situation. For instance, if you are firing a pistol and your opponent 
wants to use the gun’s Negative Trait Loud against you, that Negative Trait could be 
ignored if you have a silencer on the gun. 
’ 
193 


Concealability 
Each weapon has a concealability rating. If the weapon is not concealable, or if 
you do not have the proper amount of clothing or cover to conceal it, you must have 
that card ondisplay at all times. You cannot, for example, pull a broadsword out of your 
pocket. Instead, you must carry that card in hand at all times or, optionally, you could 
pin the card to your shirt, indicating that the sword is slung over your shoulder. 
Availability 
Serious firearms and archaic melee weapons can take some time to locate. 
Firearms also require permits to obtain, which involves undergoing background 
checks or waiting-periods in some areas. A character can turn to more “colodul” 
channels in order to procure equipment, but the black market often means shady 
dealings and vastly inflated prices. Weapons that have Influence values listed under 
Availability indicate the level and type of Influence required in order to procure the 
weapon through illicit channels. Finally, ofcourse, there’s cost: A character must have 
some access to funds (Finance, Resources, Influence) to procure exotic melee weapons 
and nearly all firearms. 
Once a character has a weapon, that doesn’t mean he can keep it forever. Too 
oftencharacters runabout firing shotguns and large automatic weapons without facing 
the massive police manhunts that such battles invariably provoke. Take care that 
characters with powerful weapons understand the equally powerful repercussions that 
come from their use. These consequences not only preserve game balance but enforce 
a sense of realism and keep the game from turning into Rambo with fur. 
Special Weapon Capabilities 
Some weapons have special abilities, allowing an attacker to inflict extradamage, 
ignore certain types of protection or strike multiple opponents. (Such powers are 
noted under the weapon descriptions.) 
Armor-Piercing 
Special rounds, generally Teflon-coated, are able to pierce armor with ease. 
Although they do not inflict extra damage, armor-piercing rounds ignore any defenses 
from armor. Such rounds are typically tricky to acquire, though, and legal inquiries 
often follow their use. 
Destroy Shield 
Although rare in this day and age, tribes whoprefer older weapons still use shields. 
A weapon capable of destroying a shield penetrates it automatically and renders it 
useless after a certain number of blows, no matter what the size or strength of the shield 
may be. 
Fully Automatic 
A firearm with this ability is capable of emptying dozens of rounds into a single 
target at close range. This attack inflicts an extra health level ofdamage automatically 
due to sheer volume of fire; however, after emptying the clip from fully automatic fire, 
the character must spend one action reloading the weapon before it may be fired again. 
High-Caliber 
Firearms of particularly high caliber can cause crippling wounds with only a few 
shots. When a high-caliber weapon hits a target, the attacker should make a Simple 
Test immediately. A win indicates that the target suffers an additional health level of 
damage from the shot. 
194 


Incendiary 
[$ 
Burning weapons cause aggravated wounds to just about anything. Some, like 
flame-throwers or Molotov cocktails, burn the target with streams or explosions of fire 
while others such as incendiary rounds (ihot loads?) bum the target with superheated 
ammunition. 
Mass-Trauma 
Certain weapons are so powerful they inflict massive damage on a target, literally 
tearing away portions of flesh. Such weapons score an extra health level of damage 
when used appropriately. 
Speed 
Fast weapons can be used to “pre-empt” an opponent’s attack, allowing the 
attacker with the speedier weapon to strike and resolve his challenge first. A character 
must have the Melee Ability to use this special ability, and he must be attacking or 
otherwise actively using (parrying, disarming) the weapon in order to gain this benefit. 
Fast weapons only gain a preemptive strike against opponents in hand-to-hand or 
melee combat. 
Since many attacks are handled simultaneously for ease of play (both players 
testing at once and the winner scoring a hit), this ability is not always very useful. 
However, if the Storyteller opts to allow each attacker to test individually (attacking 
striking defender, then defender counter-striking), this ability puts characters with 
fast weapons on the offensive. 
Spray 
The weapon can strike several targets at once, as noted under the weapon’s 
specific parameters. The shooter makes one test against all the targets simultaneously. 
Each target who fails the test suffers the weapon’s damage while each target who 
succeeds avoids the weapon’s damage. The shooter risks only the Traits required to test 
against each member of the group and loses only those Traits if any defender wins the 
test. 
aidbin 9 Weapon ‘zr ai t s 
During a normal hand-to-hand fight, characters bid Physical Traits against their 
opponents’ Physical Traits. However, if a character is using firearms, he may use 
Mental Traits instead. If his opponent is also using a firearm, she bids Mental Traits 
as well. If the opponent is not using a firearm and is merely trying to dodge, then the 
attacker uses Mental Traits to attack while the defender uses Physical Traits to dodge. 
This instance is one of the few in which Traits associated with different Attributes may 
be used against one another. 
Weapon &xamples 
Melee Weapons 
KnifeDagger - 
These easily concealed weapons are very common, lightning 
fast in the hands of a skilled user and can also be used as ranged weapons if a character 
uses the Athletics Ability properly. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Pocket 


Damage: One health level 
J 
I 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed: In close combat against any weapon that has theNegative 
Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the knife-fighter gains the option to pre-empt the 
opponent’s attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Melee Ability. 
Club/Ax - 
These two common weapon types can be anything from chair legs 
to mighty war axes to billy clubs; one bludgeons while the other cuts, but the essential 
function is the same. 
Bonus Traits: Club: 2, Ax: 3 
Negative Traits: Clumsy 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
Damage: Club - 
One health level; Ax - 
Two health levels 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Ax: Destroy Shield. Axes render shields useless after three blows. 
Longbow - 
These huge, powerful bows make mincemeat of regular armor, and 
many Garou (especially the Black Furies or Native American tribes) are trained in the 
arts of archery. Modem compound bows are smaller and use pulley systems to generate 
powerful pull; these bows do not have the Negative Trait Clumsy, but give the user only 
five Bonus Traits. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: No way. 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any. 
Special Ability: Amor-Piercing: Longbows ignore armor. Destroy Shield: One shot 
from a longbow renders a shield useless. 
Pistol - 
This designation covers nearly any sort of small- and medium-caliber 
handgun commonly encountered, from zip guns and holdout pieces to 9mms and 
standard police-issue sidearms. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, Street 3 or Underworld 2 otherwise. 
Heavy Pistol - 
This designation covers the monsters of the handgun range, 
from the Desert Eagle to a .454 Cassull. These tremendous guns use high-caliber 
ammunition to punch large holes in their targets. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, 
Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Heavy Pistols allow a Simple Test on a successful 
Rifle - 
Favored by many hunters and snipers. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
hit. Success indicates the target takes an extra level of damage. 
196 


Negative Traits: Loud 
[$ 
Concealability: None. 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Rifles may be loaded with high-caliber ammuni- 
tion. Note that the character must specifically acquire such ammunition to gain this 
benefit - 
it is not included automatically when using a rifle. 
Shotgun -This powerful weapon fires a spray of pellets, making targets easy to 
hit. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spray: A shotgun may affect up to three targets if they are 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 20 feet from the person 
firing the shotgun. This effect can be gained only if the shotgun is loaded with pellets, 
not slugs. Mass-Trauma: A shotgun can cause an extra health level of damage to a 
single target standing within five feet. 
Submachine Gun - 
These weapons are very powerful, and they fire a large 
number of bullets very quickly, making them the favorite weapons of many gangs, 
where accuracy isn’t as important as hitting a large number of targets at the same time. 
The law requires these guns be sold as non-automatic weapons, with only single-shot 
capability, but a use of the Repair Ability can convert them to fully automatic fire. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered and non-automatic. Police 4, Street 4 or Under- 
world 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spray: A submachine gun may affect up to five targets if they’re 
standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet from the person 
firing the gun. Fully Automatic: A submachine gun inflicts an additional health level 
of damage if the entire clip is emptied into a target standing no more than five feet 
away. 
See the forms description (p. 173) for natural weapons available to the Garou, 
and the description of klaives and other fetish weapons (p. 255) for the most precious 
and traditional weapons Garou favor. 
Fighting with ranged weapons allows combatants to stand some distance apart; 
participants can therefore “dive for cover.” When resolving each ranged combat 
challenge, each combatant can present one Trait of cover to add to his total number 
of Traits. These cover Traits may not be used for bidding, but they do add to a player’s 
total if Traits are compared. This cover can take the form of whatever obstacles are 
around and within reach (don’t actually dive for them). A Narrator might be required 
to describe what cover is around unless the combatants can agree on what cover is 
available. 
If cover is extensive, it may be worth more than one Trait. The number of Traits 
available for cover is left for challengers to agree on, or for aNarrator to decree. Hiding 
197 


J behind a boulder, for example, might be worth two Traits, while hiding behind a wood 
fence might only count as one. If one combatant goes completely under cover (he 
cannot be seen at all and is thoroughly protected), he is considered impossible to hit. 
The attacker must change position to get a clear shot. 
Surprise 
If a player does not respond within three seconds of the declaration of a Physical 
Challenge, the character is considered to have been surprised - 
not fully prepared for 
what’s coming. Sometimes a player is busy with another activity or is playing a 
character who just isn’t paying attention. Any player who sneaks around whispering 
challenges to get the element of surprise is cheating, plain and simple. 
Surprise simply means that the outcome of the first challenge in a fight can only 
harm the surprised defender, not the challenger. For instance, if a player did not 
respond in time to an attack, but still won the challenge, the challenger would not be 
injured. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test, she may call for a second 
challenge by risking another Trait. After this second challenge, regular challenge rules 
resume. Overbidding is permitted for both challenger and challenged in surprise 
situations. 
C uerns 
Caems are places of magic - 
sacred groves, ihauntedi lots and fog-shrouded 
islands. The obvious ones lean more toward the sacred grove and haunted lot end of 
things; some might refer to them as places where ley lines meet. They are locations 
where the earth‘s own energy runs strong and may be accessed by those who know how. 
But caems can show up almost anywhere. It is true that they are more plentiful in the 
wilds, but some of them have survived the spread of urbanization. 
Garou protect caerns with their lives. There are packs who do nothing but watch 
over temples and shrines endowed with mystical energy. In return, caems offer many 
benefits to the Garou who watch over them. They attract spirits, usually of a specific 
kind. They enable Garou to travel between them, even if the distances to be traveled 
are vast. They may evoke great mystical energies of one type or another. 
Caems hold a very important place in Garou culture. Garou worship at caems, 
hold their moots and meetings at caems and eventually bury their fallen at caerns. If 
they spend too much time away from caerns, they may sicken (mentally or physically) 
or even, after a long time, die. 
Garou usually dedicate a caem to a specific spirit, normally the totem of the tribe 
but sometimes another spirit. A caem might be dedicated to a spirit that came with 
the caem and decided on its own to watch over it. 
Garou aren’t the only ones interested in caems, unfortunately. Mages sometimes 
drain caems of their energy, which the mages call “Quintessence.” Minions of the 
Wyrm may destroy caem or occupy and corrupt them. 
The prevalence of caems depends entirely on what you want to do with them. A 
story about hopelessness and despair might have 50 caems left in the entire world. A 
story about heroism and hope might have 500 left. Not all caems are held by Garou; 
some of the other changing breeds guard caems as well, as does, unfortunately, the 
Wyrm. 
Caems tend to require a fair amount of attention, so you may not wish to deeply 
involve your players with the maintenance of a caem. However, caerns also allow for 
198 


--Jl/-d&g;a 
marvelous roleplaying possibilities, particularly when paired with gathers and moots. 
Few things establish the mood of agame like a sept moot held at a caem. 
Types of Caerns 
The purpose of a caem has a large effect on the Garou who use it and on your 
game. Thus, you should choose the purpose of a caem ahead of time. Some types of 
Caern Chart 
I 
Caern Level 
Gauntlet 
Moon Bridge 
Distances* 
1 
4 
1000 miles 
2 
4 
2000 miles 
3 
3 
3000 miles 
4 
3 
6000 miles 
5 
2 
10,000 miles 
*The distance that can be traveled via moon bridge is determined by the 
rating of the caem traveled from. Moon bridges allow travel only up to 
1000 miles if opened from a location that is not a caem. You may wish to 
severely limit the use of moon bridges - 
a game can be very difficult to 
conduct if different packs are in different parts of the world. 
rn 
rn 
caems are more common than others, and you may create caems of a type not listed 
here. The descriptions attempt to give some idea of the traditional location for such 
typesof caerns, but feel free to go beyond this. There’s noreasonwhy a caemofHealing 
couldn’t be found in a city park, or a caem of Gnosis in a back-street chapel. 
At any caem the Garou may encounter nature spirits of various types, as well as 
ancestor-spirits. Also, the Garou may open a moon bridge (see Rite of the Opened 
Bridge) from any caem. 
When thepowerofacaemis IistedasaffectingaTrait, Abilityor effect, thenonly 
one level is gained (see Rite of the Opened C a m ) .  When it lists multiple possibilities 
for what it affects, it will only affect one of those (either randomly, or at Storyteller’s 
discretion, or, if allowed by the Storyteller, at the Master of the Rite’s discretion). 
Whenacaern’sdescription mentions spirits that tend to be found there, these are only 
the spirits most likely to show up; other spirits may and frequently do put in 
appearances. 
T h e  Common Caerns 
AcaemofEnigmas is likely to present somesort ofdifficulty thatrequiressolving. 
It might reside on a hidden island or past some puzzle that must be solved by the Garou 
who wishes to approach it for the first time. Its power grants help with the Enigmas 
Ability. The spirits found there most often would be illusion and shadow. A 
chameleon-spirit would not be unusual, nor would a Chimerling. A caem of Enigmas 
should not require apuzzle to be solved every time a Garou wishes to approach it unless 
you want to restrict access to the caem in game. 
A caern of Gnosis is a place of spiritual power, and it would most likely take the 
form of a itraditionali caem. In other words, it would be found on shrouded moors, in 
deep, dark forests or protected within ancient, crumbling temples. Its power grants 
help with Gnosis Traits. The spirits most often found there are Englings and wraiths. 
199 


\ 
A caern of Healing is a highly prized caem, particularly for Garou who often 
engage in battle with the Wyrm. Its power grants health levels. The spirits usually 
found there include spirits ofpeace and calm, and water elementals. Caems of Healing 
can most often be found in forest glades or places where water flows. 
A caem ofLeadership grants help withkadership and Intimidation, and frequently 
plays host tospiritsofwar, Bird-spirits and Ancestor-spirits. Suchcaernsmay be found 
in locations of strategic importance in the battle against the Wyrm. 
AcaemofRagegrantsRageTraits, and hostsspiritsofWar, PainandGlory.Rage 
caems would most often be found on sites where ancient battles were fought, 
particularly if valiant Ahrouns gave their lives there. 
Caerns of Stamina grant damage resistance. Protection-spirits and Guardian- 
spirits stand by caerns of Stamina. These caems typically stand in places that hold 
historical importance to the Garou and that require protection against the Wyrm. 
Caems of Strength grant Physical Traits and attract spirits of War. These caerns 
seem to appear in places that will later be the sites of a battle between the Garou and 
the forces of the Wyrm. No one knows how this happens. If a pack finds a caern of 
Strength, they know they’re in for a rough ride. 
Urban caems grant help with the Streetwise Ability, and attract City elementals. 
They usually occupy deserted lots with reputations of being haunted; this reputation 
tends to protect the caern from further development or close investigation by mortals. 
Caerns of Visions grant oracular visions to those Garou who serve them. 
Typically, Bird-spirits flock to these caerns. Such caerns usually exist near bodies of 
still water or in high places, and their visions tend to be cryptic and sometimes 
contradictory. (In game terms, the future is not set in stone. Do your best to figure out 
what sort of vision the caern would grant, but do not feel obligated to always be clear 
or entirely correct.) 
A caem of Will grants Willpower and attracts War- and Honor-spirits. These 
caerns are usually found just outside of cities, where great will is required to fight the 
encroachment of urbanization. 
A caem of Wisdom grants help with Rituals and Expression Abilities, and often 
hosts Owl- and Wisdom-spirits. These caerns are usually found in the tribal lands of 
Africa and the Americas. 
A Wyld caerngrants abilities at random; the Storyteller may wish to choose from 
the previous list ofcaems for ideas. Wyld caerns will never grant the same ability twice 
within the same lunar cycle, and they attract Wyldlings. Usually these caems grant 
Abilities that may be used to aid the cause of the Wyld, but as the Wyld hates to be 
predictable, this isn’t always so. 
Che Unusual Caerns 
Caems of Courage tend to show up in the most unexpected places, from the 
deepest wilderness to a city’s heart. This caern grants help with the Intimidation Ability 
and attracts Protection-spirits. Wherever a caem of Courage is found, Garou can be 
certain that courage will be needed, although perhaps not of the obvious kind. 
Caerns of Love embody the emotional ties that give people strength and weaken 
them at the same time. They grant help with the Empathy Ability or with Willpower 
and play host to spirits of Calm or even to Lunes. The Children of Gaia value these 
caerns highly. 


Caems of Justice are particularly rare, as unjust actions taken nearby easily foul [% 
them up. Such a caem may add to the Law Ability and may attract spirits of Justice or 
Owl- spirits. 
Caems of Sacrifice usually arise where Garou (or sometimes even humans) 
sacrificed themselves on the battlefield in order to save others. The maintenance of 
such caerns is particularly difficult as it requires small but meaningful sacrifices. The 
opening of a caem of Sacrifice allows Garou to share their health levels with each 
other, taking on each other’s injuries. It attracts Earth elementals and, in cases where 
the founding sacrifice was particularly great, perhaps even a Unicorn-spirit. 
Caems ofunity have almost entirely disappeared from the earth as the Changing 
Breedssquabble constantly. Such acaemwould add toMentalTraitsand attract spirits 
of Honor and Ant- or Bee-spirits. 
Caerns of Craftsmanship tend to show up in urban areas and affect the Crafts or 
Repair Abilities. They attract Electricity or Glass elementals, or, in very rare instances, 
Atomic- spirits. For obvious reasons, Glass Walkers are particularly fond of these 
caems. 
Caems of Memory are not quite as rare as caerns of Unity, but there aren’t many 
of them. Such a caem might grant Ancestors, even to tribes or breeds normally denied 
Ancestors. Caerns of Memory either show up in very ancient places where things have 
not changed in a very long time or in libraries or computer data storage. The former 
tend to attract Owl-spirits, and the latter attract Glass or Electricity elementals and 
Pattern Spiders. The Mokok protect one of these caems. 
Caerns of Stealth hide themselves quite well: In the more unusual, a location the 
better - 
so few Garou know of their existence. Even powerful caems of Stealth hide 
their energies and must be found purely by chance. Opening such a caem adds to 
Stealth and Subterfuge Abilities, and thus these caems are prized by Shadow Lords and 
Silent Striders. These caems attract spirits of Shadow, Illusion and Enigmas, as well 
as Chameleon-spirits and Air elementals. 
Keep in mind that these are not the only types of caerns in existence. You might 
create a caern of Humor, Fertility, Curiosity or almost any strong and valued concept. 
Simply choose appropriate Traits and Abilities to affect, and pick spirits that seem to 
make sense. 
If you want to create a corrupted caern, one that is protected by a Black Spiral 
Dancer hive, simply choose a very different sort of value. Betrayal, cruelty, brutality 
and disharmony are some possibilities. Some may simply take a dark twist on their 
original concept -suchcaem concepts as Stealth, Memory, Strength and Rage could 
easily be perverted. These caerns constantly attract Banes. 
T h e  Parts of a Caern 
Every caern is different, and strongly influenced by the type of caern and the 
totem spirit that resides there. However, certain terms are generally applied to the 
parts of a caem, and so you may find them useful. 
The bawn of a caern is its outer perimeter, which is not necessarily regularly 
shaped. A Garou can sense when she crosses a bawn as can some spiritually aware non- 
Garou. 
Most septs try to keep an area of quiet reflection where their dead may lie 
undisturbed near the caern. This place serves multiple purposes. It is a way of honoring 
the dead and shows the living how they will be honored if they die in service to their 
201 


caem. It encourages the Garou to act bravely, in theory. Some graves are obvious to 
y 
anyone who enters the caem, others only to Garou - 
they might consist simply of a 
glyph on a stone or tree trunk. Caems consisting primarily of lupus Garou are less likely 
to keep such areas. When a caem site makes burial of the dead impossible (in other 
words, most urban caems), then a shrine may suffice. 
Larger caems try to include living space for the sept inside of the bawn. Kinfolk 
may live just outside the bawn in order to slow down those who might seek to gain 
entry. When there is no room for living space, Garou try to live as close to the caem 
as possible and may take tums “camping out” at the caem. Ranking pack members 
obviously get more living space than others, although privacy isn’t necessarily 
guaranteed, particularly in caems with many lupus Garou. 
Many caems keep shrines to various spirits. A shrine to the totem spirit would be 
appropriate, although Garou with personal ties to particular spirits may also keep 
shrines to them. If the sept consists of a single tribe they may also keep a shrine to the 
tribe totem. These are places to contact, pray to or appeal to various spirits. 
The assembly area is vital to many parts of sept life. Moots occur in the assembly 
area, as do challenges, councils and any number of other social events. When a caem 
does not have enough room for everyone in the assembly area, moots and large 
gatherings may be held in the Umbra. 
The spiritual heart of the caem will not necessarily be found at its center. The 
Gauntlet is nonexistent at the heart, and any shifter, including those not normally 
able to step sideways, may enter and leave the Umbra at the heart of a caem. The most 
powerful rituals are conducted in the heart of the caem, and even normal mortals will 
feel something odd there. 
The thinning of the Gauntlet at a caem results in a much more accurate 
reflection of the real world in the Umbra. Even modem buildings and new features can 
be seen and felt in the spirit realm, although they may not look entirely the same as 
their real-world twins. On holy nights in the most powerful caems, shifters may even 
slip sideways accidentally. 
Sept m u t i e s  ana Offices 
Some sept offices may take up a large amount of time for the Garou fulfilling 
them, so you may not wish to bring this into your game. If you do, it’s certainly a way 
to give players plenty to do. Most sept office duties come up at moots, which are usually 
held at least once a month - 
many packs, for instance, hold moots at the full moon. 
Most office-holders other than Guardians are not constantly necessary, and so they 
may be allowed away from the caem- these offices may be more appropriate for player 
characters. In smaller septs, single Garou may hold multiple offkes. 
Guardians, obviously, watch over the caem. This can quickly become boring for 
a group of player characters, as most caems are not constantly under attack. Certainly 
a stint as caem Guardians, however, could make for an interesting set of stories. At 
some caems with multiple packs of Garou, this duty may rotate through the packs, 
allowing you to play with stories of protecting the caern while also bringing in outside 
adventures. 
~e s s er Off ices 
For those posts that involve moots, you may see the section on moots, below, for 
more details. 
202 


The Caller of the Wyld invokes the sept’s totems during a moot. In smaller septs, 
the Master of the Rite may take on this duty in addition to her own. 
The Master of the Howl leads the howls, songs, and chants with which a sept 
begins a moot. It is his duty to see that the right mood is set. He also introduces the 
various parts of a moot. 
The Talesinger sings tales ofglory and heroic efforts at each moot. The Talesinger 
is almost always a Galliard, and it is a high honor for a Galliard to achieve this post. 
The Truthcatcher mediates disputes and judges crimes not just at moots, but also 
between times. She carries much weight and responsibility and has less freedom to 
leave the sept than some other office-holders. 
The Wyrm Foe leads the Revel at the end of each moot. Between moots he 
coordinates the caern’s packs and plans strikes against its enemies. The Wyrm Foe is 
expected to be a well-seasoned warrior. 
- 
C; r eater Offices 
The Gatekeeper maintains and opens moon bridges; she must know the Rite of 
the Opened Cuern and the Rite of the Opened Bridge. She spends most of her time at the 
caem. Because of this, she may have an assistant (or even a pack of younger Garou in 
larger caems) to run errands and go on missions for her. 
The Keeper of the Land maintains the caem’s general appearance. More than 
simple yard work, this often involves negotiation with a caern’s spirits. The hard part 
is making all of the spirits happy without offending any of them. 
The Master of the Challenge oversees all challenges for Rank or office, ensuring 
that all Garou are treated fairly. 
The Master of the Rite oversees all rites performed at the caern’s heart, and this 
is the highest post that a Theurge may aspire to. No rites that the Master of the Rite 
does not know may be held at the caem’s heart, so he should know a lot ofrites! While 
other Theurges who wish to hold Rites at the caem’s heart may in theory teach them 
to the Master of the Rite, this only works if the Master of the Rite may cast high-level 
Rites. 
The caem Warder coordinates the defensive efforts of the entire bawn. She 
decides who is allowed into the various parts of the caern and she chooses the 
Guardians. She is one of the most important Garou at the caem. 
The Council of Elders leads the caem and is responsible for the welfare of all 
within its borders. Only Garou of impeccable character and great deeds should reach 
this position. In smaller septs, the elders will also hold most of the greater sept offices. 
See Guardians of the Caerns for more information on life at caerns. 
nloots 
Moots are meetings, gatherings of Garou and much more. They combine social, 
religious and political functions. They honor heroes, address law and justice, resolve 
grievances and challenges and provide a chance for the sept to decide matters of 
import. Beyond even that, moots recharge the very spiritual energy of a caem. They 
help to keep the caern close to the Umbra and strengthen Garou ties with the spirits 
of the caem. 
Garou are social creatures, and the moot reinforces that. It reminds them ofwhat 
they’re fighting for. It provides a necessary link to the waning Garou culture and gives 
203 


them a little bit of fun in a gloomy world. Even soldiers need a break now and then. 
They must speak to one another, honor their pasts and decide on future actions. Garou 
who avoid moots are viewed with agreat deal of suspicion. They deny the social nature 
of the Garou, refuse to help determine the path that the sept will follow and deny 
Mother Earth and the spirits their due. 
Most often, specific Garou hold specific moot-related offices (some of which are 
described under the caerns section, above) over and over again. However, a Garou 
who performs a notable deed may find herself holding an office at the next moot in 
recognition for her achievement. 
Garou attendance at moots has declined in recent years, unfortunately. Some 
Garou have forgotten just how important moots are and see them as nothing more 
than monthly meetings that waste valuable time. They become caught up in war and 
forget that without history, traditions and the spiritual energy that is renewed during 
moots, war loses its point. Because of this, some offices of the moot go vacant and fall 
into disuse or require a single Garou to perform multiple roles. Some claim that entire 
sections of the moot and their corresponding offices have been forgotten. 
Sept Moot Structure 
The most common type of moot is the sept moot, usually held once a month at 
the full moon. Any Garou may attend, although outsiders are viewed with suspicion. 
Below you will find a general moot structure. Each tribe and sept has its own way 
of doing things however, so alter the guidelines as you see fit. 
Storyteller’s Note: You may wish to hold your moots outdoors on private 
property, especially if the moon will be full and bright. This isn’t always possible, 
however, so you may instead create an indoor moot area. Try to decorate the area 
appropriately, to get across the ritualistic feel of a moot. 
Organize the people in charge of each part of the moot ahead of time. If this is the 
first moot this group ofplayers has performed together, you may wish to rehearse before 
the actual moot. Most important is that you keep the moot moving, keep the energy 
going. If you skip something or do something incorrectly, just keep going - 
it won’t 
be a disaster. The more you stop to redo sections, the more you break the mood. 
Ultimately, of course, do whatever results in your having more fun. 
The 9001 
Most septs appoint a Fool for any moot. His job is to make fun of the Lltany and 
Garou traditions, and to dispute the word of Garou who speak. What he does and says 
is (in theory) never held against him afterward. The idea is that someone should be 
able to say all the things that pecking order, custom and respect normally disallow. It 
can help greatly to have someone who can fearlessly point out when the Garou are 
being stupid. After all, rank and position sometimes mean that necessary things go 
unsaid - 
this is when they get said. The Fool’s assertions also give the sept a chance 
to refute his words, to prove their worthiness. It gives them a chance to show their 
understanding of their heritage, to argue for the Litany and their own actions. It 
encourages each member of the sept to question and reaffirm his loyalty to sept, tribe, 
tradition and duty. 
After the moot, the Fool’s words are meant to be forgotten and forgiven. Ofcourse 
not all Garou forget and forgive so easily, so the Fool usually employs some restraint 
in his words, speaking when his words may do good. Some Garou fear the office of Fool 
and the resentment of their peers that often comes with it. Most Garou simply learn 
204 


not to take the Fool seriouslv, which unfortunatelv means that his words don’t do as \ s 
much good as they should. 
The Master of the Rite appoints the Fool for a moot. The Fool is usually, but not 
always, a Ragabash. Sometimes Theurges hold the position as well, as their insight is 
valued. Some septs find that a Theurge’s words cut a little too deep, however, and so 
choose someone who will speak more lightly. Some septs have conveniently allowed 
the post of the Fool to fall into disuse while at others (particularly Bone Gnawer septs) 
his words may be echoed by other sept members, rather than strongly refuted. 
Che Opening Howl 
All moots start with the howl, led by the Master of the Howl and the rest of the 
Galliards, and the air fills with unearthly cries. The howl reflects the makeup of each 
sept, as well as its recent activities and attitudes. Elements of activities, status and 
attitude come in during the final moments of the howl. If the sept had a recent victory 
in combat, the final strains might have a martial theme to them, usually still reflective 
of the tribal heritage of the sept. If the sept has met to determine the fate of a Garou 
who has turned to the Wyrm, the howl would take on a much more menacing air. 
Recently, at septs that include more than one or two lupus Garou, there has been 
included a second howl, a mournful song sung by one throat. It is meant to remind 
everyone of the dwindling number of wolf kin and echoes the fact that these are the 
Last Times. A lupus may take offense if the Mournful Howl is not sung. 
During the Opening Howl the Fool is expected to question each assertion made 
by the howl while the rest of the sept refutes his claims. 
Obviously at urban caems howling may present a problem. Perhaps the caem is 
located inapart oftownwhere people would rathershut theirwindows and their minds 
than do anything. Perhaps the area of the caem has such a reputation for being 
haunted that no one would go near no matter what they heard. If they’re lucky, the 
caem may be inside thick walls, and they can get away with all sorts of noise. On the 
other hand, maybe a moot’s howling would result in someone calling Animal Control 
or even the police; wolf howls can be heard for miles. Most septs know what they can 
get away with in their areas. 
The ~ n n e r  Sky 
This part of the moot starts in silence. The Theurge who holds the post of Caller 
of the Wyld steps forward and, sometimes with four other helpers, addresses the five 
directions (North, South, East, West and Within), asking for their aid in the moot. 
The Caller also calls up the totem or totems of the caern and the tribe, asking for their 
presence as well. Ifthere are other spirits strongly associated with the caem, then those 
may be called on as well. Umbral spirits are the source of the caem’s power and 
strength; thus, the Inner Sky must be performed in order to keep the caem healthy. 
At some caems Garou take the part of the totems of the sept, dressing in masks 
and costumes to reflect the nature of the totem. These performers are usually referred 
to as the Shining Ones. For the duration of the moot they represent the totem and must 
be treated withdeference and respect. At some caems, the Shining Ones are givengifts 
to represent their status for the night as the caem’s totems. 
The Inner Sky is the method by which the Garou renew their ties of respect with 
their totem and the other spirits around them. If they neglect this for nine months, the 
power of the caem drops by one. After another nine months of being neglected, it 
drops by another one, and so on, until the caem goes dormant when it reaches zero 
’ 
20s 


power. A Rite of Spirit Awakening must be performed by the Rite Master in order to 
reawaken the caern or to recharge lost points. If the caern has simply been weakened, 
then one temporary Gnosis Trait must be spent per point lost. If the caern has gone 
dormant, then one permanent Gnosis must be spent for each power level of the caern. 
Calling the Winbs 
The Inner Sky renews the connection between the Garou and the 
spirits they work with. Below is a sample “script.” Change it or replace it as 
you choose: 
Caller of the Wyld: We have gathered in this sacred place of Gaia, 
having called our brothers and sisters of Gaia, and we now call our brothers 
and sisters of Luna. 
(She faces East, or her first assistant faces East if she is using four 
helpers) 
East: East Wind! Bringer of the dawn of clear air! You who showed us 
the mirror side, the other side of the Velvet Curtain, come to us! We thank 
you for your clear thought and bright light! 
(She turns to her right, to the South, or her second assistant faces 
South) 
South: South Wind! Bringer of the eternal fire! You who gave us the 
fire of rage within, that we strike swiftly against our enemies, come to us! 
We thank you for your fiery anger and your protection! 
(She turns to her right, to the West, or her third assistant faces West) 
West: West wind! Bringer of the rain! You who gave us the Changing 
Ways, come to us! We thank you for the many shapes you’ve shared with 
us! 
North) 
brought us the Gifts and the Sacred Ways, come to us! We thank you for 
your wisdom and your strength! 
or summer, or with her hands pointing palms down, her eyes to the ground 
in fall or winter) 
within us! You who hold our Mother’s power, come to us all! We thank you 
for your spirit and your peace! 
(She turns to her right, to the North, or her fourth assistant faces 
North: North Wind! Bringer of cold from the mountains! You who 
(She stands with her hands above her, her eyes to the sky in the spring 
Caller of the Wyld: Inner wind! Bringer of blessings from Gaia from 
w 
Cracking the &one 
As the moon rises toward its zenith in the sky, the Master of the Howl lets out a 
high keening howl that ends in a jagged, shattering note, thus signaling Cracking the 
Bone. This is the business portion of the moot, presided over by the Philodox who fills 
the position of Truthcatcher. 
This is the time when the Garou make their grievances known or call for 
challenges. They may petition for judgement on some matter, propose or questionsept 
policy and address personal conduct. It is the duty of the Truthcatcher to ferret out the 
truth of each matter and render a judgement. He also recognizes those who would 
206 


speak and gives them permission to do so. Among more structured septs, speaking out [is 
L 
of turn can result in a loss of Honor. Some septs pass around a italking stick? to remind 
the Garou of who currently has the right to speak. Usually order is roughly determined 
by rank: Higher-ranking Garou speak first, and lower-ranking Garou speak later. Some 
more tolerant tribes (such as the Bone Gnawers or Children of Gaia) may allow 
younger or lower-ranked members to speak out of turn without loss of Honor. In 
theory, everyone is allowed to speak. In practice, since the Garou are more likely to 
be impatient to move on to stories and songs in the later stages, elder and higher- 
ranked Garou are likely to get the better hearing. 
Requests for arbitration in disputes may be made at this time. Accusations of 
Litany violations may be made; requests for approval or advice are also welcomed. All 
parts of Cracking the Bone are public, and anyone in the sept is allowed to listen. 
The Truthcatcher may interrupt anyone at any time, demanding clarification or 
asking questions. While he may solicit the opinions or knowledge of the other Garou 
present, his word on any issue is final. Judgement and punishment (if any) may not be 
appealed. For this reason, many Garou go out of their way not to alienate or annoy the 
sept’s Truthcatcher. 
Stories an3 Songs 
The Master of the Howl next declares the beginning of the Time of Tales, and 
the Talesinger rises, leading the Garou in a howl that runs the entire range of the wolfs 
scale. Then the she leads the sept in stories of past and present Garou adventures. In 
tales of past adventures, the sept is reminded of what it means to be Garou. In tales of 
present adventures, they are honored for their own deeds. 
Few Garou will skip out on this part of the moot, as it is the major way to gain 
Renown by being included in the Talesinger’s songs. In some septs any Garou may 
petition to tell a tale - 
some Garou believe that only one who was involved can 
properly tell a tale. In others this is considered boastful and uncouth, and Garou must 
petition other Garou (preferably Galliards) to tell their tale for them. 
Next the Talesinger calls out for any who would oppose the seeker of Renown. 
To object at this point is a grave insult as it implies outright that the Garou who seeks 
Renown is a liar. It is an insult that must be borne, however, and the challenger may 
tell his own version of the tale. Then the Talesinger asks for a judgement from the 
assembled Garou. First, those who support the claimant raise their voices. Next, those 
who support the challenger raise their voices. From this the Talesinger decides 
whether to award Renown or not. 
As many appeals as the Talesinger is willing to grant are heard; if there are many, 
some may be put off to the next moot. Note: This is the roleplaying part of the Renown 
system; characters must receive the approval of sept elders and others in order to gain 
Renown. However, the Storyteller may of course use his discretion, particularly if the 
entire sept feels that a character deserves a little extra Renown. 
This portion of the moot varies widely from sept to sept, and in particular from 
tribe to tribe. Shadow Lords and Silver Fangs are more likely to tell heavy-handed 
ballads and parables that hold the Garou as superior to all humans. They then go on 
to portray the tribe as guide and mentor to other tribes. These tribes usually only allow 
the Talesinger herself to tell the tales. 
Uktena and Wendigo tell their tales more in a Native American tradition. The 
greatest warriors take on the roles of both victor and vanquished and dance the tale 
as well as sing it. A chorus of other Garou supports the story with howls and natural 
201 


percussion. This part of the moot may become so charged with energy that the entire 
sept dances and howls around the Talesinger at the tale’s climax. 
C h e  Revel 
Some septs choose the Wyrm Foe (see section on caems) ahead of time. Others 
choose her at the beginning of the revel. The Master of the Howl allows his gaze to pass 
over the Garou until he locks eyes with the Wyrm Foe. This Garou rises and closes with 
the Master of the Howl and attempts to stare him down as they circle. When the Wyrm 
Foe has been chosen in advance, this is merely for show. Otherwise, the Garou must 
win the staredown in order to become the Wyrm Foe. If she fails, another is chosen. 
The Garou then erupt in howls and yelps; the Wyrm Foe must quiet them with 
a howl that rises above the noise and demands submission. The rest of the sept joins 
in the howl, and the Wyrm Foe changes to Lupus, followed by the rest of the sept. 
Then the Revel truly begins. The energy and passions of the Garou speed toward 
their zenith. Mock battles erupt throughout the sept, as well as displays of strength and 
prowess, wild dances and ritual hunts. Some Garou shift to Crinos as the excitement 
grows. Once the level of excitement has grown too high, the Wyrm Foe leads the sept 
on a run near the caern to clear the area of all enemies. 
The passion released in the Revel manifests as raw Gnosis that is released into the 
caem itself. All Garou present must spend at least one temporary Gnosis Trait, and a 
total of two for each level of the caem must be reached. There are no mechanics-based 
repercussions for not holding the revel, but it does help to keep the local spirits happy, 
in particular the caem’s totem. 
Not all Garou retain control of themselves during a Revel; it is not unknown for 
Garou to frenzy during this time. The Get of Fenris are renowned for acts of savagery 
during the run. Urban Bone Gnawer and Glass Walker revels have spawned rumors 
of gang warfare or serial killers. Revels are so strenuous that weaker elders have been 
known to fall dead. The most staunch Garou continue until dawn (most collapse long 
before this), and gain Renown for their fervor and stamina. 
Urban caems have developed a practice of reserving the Revel for special 
occasions rather than performing it every month. They also try to find other ways to 
release the energies of the Garou at the end of the night. Fianna have been known to 
go on pub crawls, and Glass Walkers play long and furious rounds of shoot-’em-up 
computer games. Uktena may hold hours-long drumming circles. Tribes such as the 
Get ofFenris andRedTalons are shocked by this sort ofbehavior and have been known 
to blame it for the sad state of many urban caems. 
After the Moot 
Although exhausted, the Garou feel contented and newly unified at the end of 
a moot. Regularly performed moots sustain both caem and sept, strengthening ties to 
eachother, to the Umbra and to totem spirits. The sept and the caem have asymbiotic 
relationship, and moots help them to sustain each other. 
Cypes o\ Moots 
If you wish to hold a different kind of moot, by all means do so. You should not 
feel limited by those suggested here. 
Hearings may be convened at any time, but most often occur after a pack retums 
from a great adventure. Stories are told, plans are discussed, and Renown may be 
208 


awarded. Not everyone in a sept IS required to attend a hearing, but they may if they 
wish. 
Sept moots are the monthly meetings of a sept. Anyone may attend, even 
outsiders, although outsiders tend to be viewed with suspicion. 
Grand moots usually involve an entire tribe and are only convened to discuss 
matters of great importance. All werewolves of the tribe are expected to attend; others 
may attend at special invitation only. 
Concolations are the largest of all moots. All werewolves in ageographic area are 
required to attend. They are extremely rare, and only called to discuss critical matters. 
Cr i ba 1 ttf oo t s 
Tribal moots may involve the entire tribe (agrand moot) or all members of a tribe 
within a geographic region. Lesser tribal moots involve a single sept or pack if they’re 
all of the same tribe, or simply all those members of a tribe within a particular sept. 
Elders believe that these gatherings help to reinforce a tribe’s political power. 
The Black Furies gather in isolated, sacred tribal holdings. They hold choral 
chants, sacred hunts and old rites. As tribal lands fall, they have started holding 
gatherings in the cities. As this runs totally counter to what the other tribes know of 
them, most dismiss these gatherings (when they find out about them) as unimportant. 
The Bone Gnawers rarely hold formal moots- 
instead, they carry on incredible 
binges. They stock up on booze and cheap food and get totally smashed. “Orkins” are 
drunken mobs of Bone Gnawers that dredge up the courage to mess with nasty urban 
spirits. 
The Children of Gaia’s moots tend to be comparatively peaceful and quiet. They 
may gather to discuss political activism and environmental issues. Kinfolk (and even 
a few humans) may be invited. Some moots include meditation, beautiful singing and 
quiet contemplation. However, some members of the tribe have gained a fondness for 
hallucinogenic drugs, wild musical revels and even orgiastic group sex. 
The Fianna are known for two different styles of moot. During the Celtic holidays 
(set at each solstice and equinox), they sing great epics and honor their bardic history. 
At other times they throw wild parties, sharing in song, dance and drink. Occasionally 
they invite potential allies from other tribes to share. 
The Get of Fenris engage in howling, drinking, eating and contests of endurance 
and martial prowess. Some have said that their moots resemble large brawls, including 
ceremonial burning and scarification and epic sagas. Younger members of the tribe 
have been known to drink themselves sick, slamdance and beat each other up. 
The Glass Walkers run the gamut from simple meetings to full-blown corporate 
retreats in offices and warehouses. Some septs go so far as to have agendas, minutes and 
rules of order. Younger tribe members may be dismissed early to party, drink and dance. 
A few septs may hold their moots via computer, but this is very rare. 
The Red Talons cut off communication with other Garou and return to their 
roots as wolves. They hunt and run with their wolf Kin. Unknown to other tribes, 
human sacrifice may be practiced, and human internal organs may be eaten. Obvi- 
ously, these moots are held with great secrecy. 
The Shadow Lords hold somber affairs of great pomp and circumstance, usually 
on mountaintops. Thundering drums and Gregorian chants sound out the accom- 
plishments of the tribe; sometimes a human may be sacrificed to Grandfather 
Thunder. 
209 


AT-- 
The Silent Striders rarely hold tribal moots, but they may gather with other 
travelers to tell stories of their travels. Because of this, it is quite common for Kinfolk, 
other supematurals or even normal humans to be present at these gatherings. Some 
of these gatherings are held in the Umbra. As hikes and races may be held, they rarely 
stay in one place for long. 
The Uktena require absolute secrecy with regard to their tribal moots. They 
conduct rites and summon great spirits. Mysticism is celebrated, as are their cultural 
traditions. 
The Wendigo concentrate even more than the Uktena on their heritage, and 
their gatherings preserve many Native American traditions. Vision quests, peyote, 
sacred tobacco, fire dances and ritual combat are all possible aspects of Wendigo 
moots. Unlike the Uktena, the Wendigo don’t mind being observed by other Garou. 
They believe that the more people see their rites, the less likely those rites are to 
disappear entirely. 
Other Gathers 
Moots and other gathers are particularly useful to live-action roleplaying. They 
may set the mood for a game in a way that few other events or plots can. They bring 
home to the players the ritualistic nature and deep cultural traditions of Garou society 
in a way that no background reading will ever match. You may wish to hold a gather 
early on in your game to establish this mood. 
Gathers can happen at pretty much any time; the Garou have traditions and 
rituals for almost everything. They do not, however, have to happen all the time. 
While they are useful for setting mood and for framing dramatic events, they should 
not be allowed to take over the game. If you feel it necessary to plan elaborate rituals 
for every event, they may lose much of their mystery and magic for the players. They 
may also get in the way of the plots you have planned. Use gathers now and then to 
frame important events, to establish mood and to remind the players of just what it is 
their characters are fighting for, but don’t feel bound to hold a gather for every event 
that might possibly call for one. 
Almost any major event may call for a gather, anything that the sept feels it 
necessary to hold a discussion about. So might ritually important times - 
solstices, 
equinoxes, full moons, the anniversary of a great hero’s death. Use your imagination. 
Below are some ofthe possibilities. You may hold to the above example of the structure 
of a sept moot as much or as little as you please. Remember that each sept and tribe 
has its own way of doing things. 
Moon Circles 
In theory, each auspice elder in a sept holds a gathering once during her phase of 
the moon each month. The Ragabash might play jokes on one another, play games, 
go on scouting missions, discuss some brewing trouble or tell stories of the pranks they 
pulled on other Garou. Theurges might discuss local spiritual happenings, teach each 
other rites or occult lore, cast divinations or tell prophecies. The Philodox discuss 
various points of the Litany and the politics of the caem, as well as any trouble brewing 
between various sept members. The Galliards might hold a bardic circle - 
each 
Galliard contributing a story, song or poem of some sort. They might also teach each 
other new techniques of song, story or instrument. Ahroun tend to stage contests, 
informal challenges and tests of strength and endurance. 
210 


In practice, not all septs find time for this, and not all septs have enough of any \- 
given auspice to feel that this is worthwhile. Each auspice elder tries to hold a Moon 
Circle at least once every few months, however. It helps to remind the Garou of their 
connection to Luna. 
pack Courney 
A tourney is one part party, one part contest and one part festival. Some tribes 
or auspices might emphasize one part over another. For instance, the Ahroun care 
more about the contest part. The Bone Gnawers care more about the party aspect. 
Packs stick together as teams and compete for status, fetishes and talens. Most 
tourneys are held after particularly important victories against the Wyrm, or as a salute 
to an honored visitor. Particularly clever sept elders might use a tourney in order to get 
a task accomplished by disguising it as a contest. 
A great feast is prepared for the tourney. Most tribes prepare fresh game, but the 
Bone Gnawers prefer fast food, and the Glass Walkers might have their tourneys 
catered if they don’t live near a forest. Mead, cider, wine and pure spring water are 
served; some tribes add beer to this list, preferably home-brewed. 
Tourneys are good ways to earn Renown without particularly endangering one’s 
self. Unfortunately tourneys have become more and more rare, as they are thought 
wasteful in these Last Days. Still, even the Shadow Lords see the morale value in the 
occasional tourney. 
Turning the Sun 
In order to “turn” the sun, many Garou honor four special holidays at the solstices 
and equinoxes of each year. In the spring, the Garou hold a wild bacchanal to which 
many Kinfolk and wolf-friends may be invited (and at which many children tend to 
be conceived). Even somber tribes such as the Shadow Lords tend to kickup their heels 
in the interests of increasing their numbers. 
In the summer, many Garou dress in their finest clothing to honor Gaia, and 
many Baptisms of Fire are performed. Some tribes such as the Red Talons have taken 
ifinest clothing? to meanlupus form-after all, how better to honor Gaia than towear 
your animal skin? At this time, fetishes are also blessed and hidden in the earth in 
Gaia’s honor. 
In the fall, the quieting land is honored, as well as the dead of the past year. The 
Silver Fangs and Shadow Lords in particular make a real gather of this, singing epics 
and ballads in honor of fallen heroes both old and new. 
The Garou believe that the Wyrm’s power grows during the winter until the 
solstice, when Gaia gains in strength and power again. Thus the winter solstice is 
celebrated with a great bonfire. Many Garou take on their new Ranks at this gather. 
Many of the fetishes that were blessed at the summer solstice are recovered from the 
earth and presented as gifts to the cubs of the sept. 
Tribal Gathers 
The various tribes at a sept may hold gathers now and then, called by the tribe’s 
elder. Generally they take the chance to discuss tribal business. The elder often uses 
the opportunity to reinforce tribal customs through ritual and song, particularly in 
septs that include members of more than one tribe. These moots also provide the elder 
with a chance to guide a Garou’s path toward higher Ranks, and they allow the elder 
211 


I’ 
I 
q-- 
the chance to spread news among the members of a tribe, so Garou rarely fail to attend. 
Tribal gathers tend to be less formal than sept moots. 
Che Council of &hers 
Once in a while the elders of the sept all meet together to discuss problems that 
pertain to the sept. They only emerge when they are all in agreement, so this gather 
can take all night or, in some cases, days. As at some sept moots, a talking stick or some 
similar symbol is passed around to keep order; none may speak until holding the 
symbol. 
Oerangements 
Derangements - 
severe emotional or mental problems - 
show up for a number 
of reasons. Black Spiral Dancers and their Kinfolk may possess derangements as may 
metis Garou or Silver Fangs. Also, some traumas may scar anyone’s psyche perma- 
nently. The Garou spend their time battling some of the most terrible, vile forces ever 
seen - 
they’ll certainly encounter their fair share of atrocities. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, a Garou who has suffered terribly or seen too much may become tempo- 
rarily or permanently insane. 
Madness is not amusing, nor is it arbitrary. Madness is a disturbing, frightening 
thing that makes perfect sense to the madman- he believes his behavior to be entirely 
reasonable. When the deranged person has the potential to become a towering half- 
human with claws and teeth that inflict aggravated damage, she becomes even more 
frightening. Imagine that your packmate of 15 years could kill you in a fit of paranoia. 
If one of the guardians of your caem develops a serious problem with apathy, he could 
allow enemies to enter the heart of the caem before anyone realized there was a 
problem. A Garou with delusions of grandeur might try to attack a Black Spiral pit 
himself, believing that he could actually take them all on. When he comes back as a 
Black Spiral Dancer himself, no one will be laughing. 
Madness is just as frightening and unsettling to the disturbed. The Garou with 
depression will likely blame events or people in her life for the way she feels, and thus 
will believe that those around her make her miserable. As for paranoia, think of how 
you felt when afriend or loved one did something mean to you. Then imagine that all 
the people around you are always trying to hurt you, pull you down or betray you - 
that’s the way someone with paranoia feels, and it isn’t fun. 
All derangements carry triggers, events that cause the derangement to come to 
the foreground. This trigger usually depends on the original source of the derange- 
ment, but may be as simple as “intense stress.” Once triggered, derangements remain 
in effect for the rest of the scene. The character’s Traits, attitudes and behavior must 
be modified in any way described under the derangement. Characters may resist a 
derangement for one scene by expending a Willpower Trait; if the trigger is still present 
at the end of that time, the character must spend another Willpower Trait or take on 
the effects of the derangement for the next scene. When the character comes under 
particularly intense mental stress, Narrators may require that additional Willpower 
Traits be spent or that a Static Willpower Challenge be made. Players should never 
forget the MET Rules of Safety when acting out a derangement. 
The Storyteller may, at her discretion, allow derangements to be cured eventu- 
ally, through time, Willpower, hard work and thoughtful roleplaying. Such a cure 
should not come easily. 
212 


Below you will find some suggested derangements; you may make up others as you 
see fit. 
Apathy: You’ve seen too much, and nothing fazes you any more - 
neither the 
atrocities of your enemies nor the suffering of your packmates. Consider your 
WillpowerTraits halved (roundeddown, minimumone), and youmaynotspendRage 
or enter frenzy. 
Bipolar: You range from wild mania to deep depression, excessive energy to sheer 
immobility, racing thoughts to numbness (see “Depression” and “Mania”). Pick one 
at the beginning of the spell, usually based on the trigger, and stick with it until you 
return to normal. 
Delusions of Grandeur: You have been somehow “chosen” to lead your people 
to greatness. Only you can make sure that things will turn out all right. Any stress at 
all causes you to test to resist frenzy. Any time you fail at something in front of others 
when in this state, you test to resist frenzy. 
Depression: Everything is spiraling down into the maw of the Wyrm, and there’s 
no use fighting it. You feel an intense sadness and depression, and become certain that 
everything will turn out badly. Because of this, you’re unlikely to try your hardest at 
whatever you are doing, thus fulfilling your own prophecy. For the duration of the 
scene, you are considered to be down two Attribute Traits for all challenges. 
Hallucinations: You see, hear, smell and perhaps even touch and taste things that 
aren’t there. Perhaps you still receive visitations from a loved one who died or from an 
enemy who tormented you. You must succeed at a Static Willpower Challenge inorder 
to see past your hallucinations enough to participate in any major activities going on. 
Insecurity: You never know where you stand with people, and this worries you 
to no end. Unless your packmates and septmates display obvious respect or affection, 
you worry that they dislike or don’t trust you. Even if they do show respect or affection, 
you may believe that they’re faking it. 
Mania: You display an inexhaustive energy. You stay up late into the night, 
sometimes in order to do entirely unnecessary things. You speak very quickly and make 
leaps of logic, but expect those around you to keep up. You become agitated and 
sometimes angry when those around you don’t display the same energy, and you burn 
yourself out very easily. You have trouble focusing on one task for any length of time. 
Moon-Mad: At random times you may behave as though you are a different, 
random auspice than your own. As Garou society takes auspice quite seriously, you 
may be seen as disrespectful. 
Multiple Personalities: You have more than one personality occupying your 
head. These personalities may be aware of each other and fighting for dominance or 
entirely unaware of each other, willing to rationalize away those hours they don’t 
remember. They may believe themselves to be of different auspices, even different 
tribes. Most cases of multiple personality fall into two categories: aspects of the base 
personality magnified many times or up to three distinct separate personalities 
occupying the same space. 
Obsessio&ompulsion: 
You fixate on an item, event, person, concept, or set of 
actions. You may be obsessed with personal cleanliness (you constantly wash your 
hands) or the destruction of anything that was ever remotely tainted by the Wyrm. 
Any time there is a chance to follow your obsession or follow the actions required by 
your compulsion, you must make astatic Willpower Challenge in order to do anything 
else. If you are forcibly prevented from following your obsession, you frenzy automati- 
cally. 
213 


Paranoia: Something or someone is out to get you, and its servants and allies are 
everywhere. Any action or event that could be seen as proving your paranoia provokes 
a test to frenzy. While paranoid, you are one Trait down on all Social Challenges. 
Phagomania: You hunger all the time and will eat almost anything edible that is 
set in front of you. You might crave something out of the ordinary and possibly even 
forbidden, such as human flesh. Anyone afflicted with this derangement is believed 
to have been tainted by the Eater-of-Souls. In order to resist this urge, you must pass 
a Static Willpower Challenge. 
Schizophrenia: Your psyche has been fractured by constant, unresolvable inner 
conflicts, and your behavior has been significantly affected by this. You might suffer 
from delusions or hallucinations (including the stereotypical voices in the head). 
When you talk, your words sound fine to you, but they might make no sense to those 
around you. Sometimes you go catatonic, or your emotions become grossly muted. You 
have a great deal of trouble interacting with the world around you. These symptoms 
are not random, however - 
they have a pattern and are organized around some inner 
or outer trauma. When this derangement flares up, you are two Traits down on 
Willpower tests. Any stress causes you to test for frenzy. 
Harano 
Harano is poorly understood by Garou. It is a deep and abiding depression that 
sometimes takes hold of them. To a certain extent, instances of depression would be 
entirely understandable among the Garou. After all, they constantly fight terrible 
battles at impossible odds against a foe that fights dirty and has more numbers than 
anyone thinks possible. Who wouldn’t occasionally wonder whether it was all 
worthwhile? Who wouldn’t wonder whether they were being sent to their deaths for 
no reason at all, in a completely vain attempt to do something that cannot be done? 
Suddenly the Rage of the Garou makes more sense. Without it, they might never get 
past the impossibility of their cause. They might not be able to get out of bed in the 
morning, let alone go out to lose more packmates in the battle against the Wyrm. 
Harano, however, is more than just a one-time depression. It is a constant and 
abiding condition that most Garou, once afflicted, never recover from. No one 
understands it. It strikes without warning, coming as quickly as a Black Spiral Dancer 
attack and often is more effective. It leaves heroic warriors paralyzed with fear and 
darkness, wondering if all of the things they’ve done were really worth it, whether 
there was any point to it all. 
Garou in Harano feel remorse for their brutal actions, of this life and all past ones. 
They suffer from nightmares of past atrocities. Their faith in their task is shaken to the 
core. A Garou in Harano starts to see himself as humans might: as a monster, doling 
out brutality and horror in the name of a cause that has no chance at success and maybe 
doesn’t even deserve success. Garou deal in death and destruction for the entirety of 
their short lives, and sometimes Harano is the price they must pay for this. 
Harano often strikes with old age, for those few Garou who live long enough. 
Harano might also strike after a particularly traumatic event, like the deaths of one’s 
packmates or a catastrophic personal failure of far-reaching import. It is up to the 
Storyteller as to whether an event is traumatic enough to warrant the approach of 
Harano. If so the Garou must make a Mental Challenge against 10 Traits. If she fails, 
she slips into Harano. 
214 


Some Garou may throw off the yoke of Harano, either temporarily or perma- (S 
nently. In any given scene, the Garou suffering from Harano must succeed at a 
Willpower Test against seven Traits or succumb to her malaise. If this happens she 
must succeed at a Simple Test in order to act at all, no matter what the situation. 
Otherwise she simply curls into a ball and fails to deal. She also is down three Traits 
on all Mental and Social Challenges, loses all ties and is down one Trait in any 
challenges involving sight, smell or hearing due to his intense self-absorprion. 
The Garou may spend a Willpower Trait in order to gain a temporary reprieve 
from this condition. This lifts most of the bad effects of Harano for as many hours as 
the character has permanent Willpower Traits, but she still feels edgy and sad. 
Whenever a character who suffers fromHarano achieves some sort of significant 
success, she may make a Willpower Test against 10 Traits. If she fails, he remains 
victim to Harano. If she succeeds, she pushes back the despair and gains one 
permanent Willpower Trait from pulling her way out of the ordeal. However, she 
always stands a chance of falling back into Harano. Each new moon, she must make 
a Willpower Test against five Traits or fall back into Harano, and this time if she 
manages to recover, she will not gain a Willpower Trait for it. Once a Garou falls 
victim to Harano, she will likely battle with the disease on and off for the rest of her 
life. 
Now ling 
Garou are wolf as well as human, and wolves communicate without human words, 
primarily with howls and body language. Because howls are the only way that wolves 
can communicate over distance, they contain a great deal of information in a few 
sounds. Much of the Garou language can be communicated through howls. Galliards 
at the very least should be familiar with the common howls; others should know a few 
of them as well. Any Garou with a little experience will know the Howl of Introduc- 
tion. 
Howls convey strong, emotional concepts and the details that go with those 
concepts. They may actually convey sensory impressions in a rudimentary way. 
Homids often find howling frustrating, as they do not have quite the control and 
versatility of language that they’re used to. It requires a rather different way of 
thinking. It takes a great deal of skill to convey small details or complex ideas, or to 
pervert the meaning of a howl. 
Howls vary from one pack to another, one tribe to another, and one geographic 
area to another. Some version of the major howls can be found in most areas, however, 
and most of them are recognizable to other Garou. A skilled Galliard may be able to 
recognize a Garou’s tribe or homeland by the way he executes the common howls. 
One Garou begins a howl, but others often join in. The Garou deliberately 
disdain harmony for cacophony, which makes the packsound larger than it is and thus 
intimidates enemies. 
As human voices aren’t particularly well-made for howls, it is perfectly accept- 
able to call out the name of the howl you are performing instead of actually howling. 
“Howling” is actually something of a misnomer. The cries listed below incorpo- 
rate various types ofwolf-vocalizations. The five basic sounds that wolves make are the 
21 5 


bark, the howl, the whimper (also called the whine), the growl (also called the snarl) 
and the squeak. The howl is the most expressive of these, and so may be used in the 
most different ways. 
Barking is usually a more guttural sound than the barking of most dogs, but wolves 
sometimes make a barking sound as well. Barking normally indicates the concept of 
the chase or some type of excitement. It may also be used as an alarm call or a challenge 
to intruders. 
Whining usually sounds soft and plaintive when made by a wolf, but the Garou 
have found various sharp and discordant ways in which to use this particular 
vocalization. In particular, the Black Spiral Dancers have made disturbing use of the 
wolfs whine. Some humans have called whining “talking” because it can be very 
expressive. 
The low growl of the wolf is, obviously, an aggressive sound and usually reflects 
an aggressive attitude or idea when incorporated into a howl. 
The squeak is a very soft sound, difficult to hear except at close range. It is only 
used in social situations. 
Howling is the most common wolf-sound. It is a continuous sound that lasts 
anywhere from 11 seconds to half a second. The pitch may remain constant or vary 
smoothly. It may also change direction four or five times during the howl. The wolf 
may use her tongue and cheeks to shape notes. A single wolfs howling session will 
usually last a half-minute to a minute and will consist of several howls. When an entire 
pack howls together (they join inone at a time), it lasts about a minute and a half. After 
a howling session a pack of wolves will usually wait 15 minutes or so before howling 
again, often more than half an hour. 
Cypes of Howls 
The Anthem of War: This cry musters septmates to battle, and is usually called 
out by the Ahroun leading the charge. It may be used to rally troops whose morale 
wanes. Skilled Ahroun may use this howl to convey anything from the location of the 
enemy to their numbers. They may also use it to call for reinforcements. Information 
about their own side is not included on the chance that the enemy may understand the 
howl. This howl is loud and strong; if others join in, they sound as discordant as possible 
in order to frighten their enemies. 
The Call for Succor: This is a call for aid in time of danger. Many Garou refuse 
to use it out of embarrassment (particularly because it sounds like the whine and 
squeak of a lost puppy). It may convey brief impressions of what the danger is. 
The Call to Hunt: This low howl alerts the pack to the presence and position of 
prey. It is a long, deep, low sound designed not to spook prey, followed by several short, 
guttural barks. 
The Chant of Challenge: This starts like a Howl of Introduction. However, 
instead of detailing the howler’s breed, tribe and auspice, it details (in as bad a light 
as possible) the enemy’s deeds, ancestry and bad habits. Some, particularly the Fianna, 
have elevated this howl to a satirical art form. This howl also conveys the reason for 
the challenge that is taking place. This howl is actually a series of growls with 
discordant whines worked in. 
The Curse of Ignominy: This is a horrible, discordant whining sound that grates 
on the ears of all who hear it until they join in. It is used to insult those who violate 
the Litany, including a long, detailed, mocking listing of the villain’s shortcomings 
216 


and failures. The one who committed the sin is forced to listen to this chanting howl [% 
in all its painful detail. 
The Cry of Elation: In battle, young warriors may attempt ridiculous feats of 
courage. This howl basically means, “Look at me!” or (in satirical translation) “Watch 
me do something really dumb!” This howl consists of a series of short, sharp barks. 
Howl of Introduction: The Litany requires that Garou respect the territory of 
others. Thus, any Garou entering another’s territory utters this howl, which details a 
Garou’s breed, tribe, auspice and name. Some Garou include parts of their lineage. It 
may also include some impression of why the visitor is worthy of attention or what his 
mission is. This is a surprisingly non-threatening sound, incorporating the high- 
pitched howl and short, low barks. 
Dirge for the Fallen: This somber, low-pitched, mournful howl acts as a requiem 
for the honored dead. The status of the dead Garou determines the length of the howl. 
A listener well-versed enough in howls may be able to determine which participants 
feel most hurt by the Garou’s death, and may pick up brief impressions of the hero’s 
deeds. 
Snarl of Precedence: This is the howl used by Garou to claim an opponent for 
one-on-one combat, often used during battle. Packs use this snarl to coordinate their 
tactics. A higher-ranking Garou does not have to recognize this howl from lesser- 
ranked Garou, and may “steal” the kill if he wishes. However, most recognize and 
respect this snarl. The Snarl of Precedence sounds like a vicious growl and is well- 
designed to frighten enemies. 
Song of Mockery: A Ragabash may take another howl and twist it into a mockery 
of its former self, incorporating discordant whines, used to insult and infuriate. If done 
well, the victim may be taunted into losing his composure or even attacking. 
Symphony of the Abyss: The Black Spiral Dancers use this reverberating, 
maddening whine and snarl to terrify their prey. Those who listen too closely to this 
howl may hear the fate in store for them. 
Wail of Foreboding: This is a general high howl of distress that warns of the 
approach of danger. While the Anthem of War warns of an attack, the Wail of 
Foreboding warns of natural disasters, odd spiritual phenomena or anything else 
bizarre and unusual. A practiced Galliard may be able to give cryptic impressions of 
what the danger may be. 
Warning of the Wyrm’s Approach: This sharply pitched call, consisting of a 
series of barks and growls, announces the presence of minions of the Wyrm. All who 
hear the howl see and feel the foulness that the howler experiences. 
dcting Like a Wolf 
Most live-action roleplayers are human and have very little idea about how 
wolves get things done. These notes are provided for players of lupus Garou or wolf- 
kin so that they may bring a taste of the wild to a game. Various aspects of wolf behavior 
will be discussed and how they might relate to your game, Garou in general and the 
roleplaying experience. 
Keep in mind that some aspects of wolf behavior are harsh and, when seen in 
terms of modern human social behavior, quite objectionable. Make sure your players 
are comfortable with them before bringing them into your game. Only allow the more 
extreme instances if you trust your players to handle them sensitively and well. 
Otherwise you may tone them down if you wish or simply disallow them. 
217 


3’ 
J Wo If-Uu man Re la ti on s 
Behavior: In general, wolves are quiet and shy, particularly around humans; they 
will flee from humans in the wild. While wolf cubs easily form social relations with 
others, including humans, in their first three months, after that they become very 
resistant to socialization. The socialization of an adult wolf may take six careful months 
of work- or more. No one is entirely certain of why this is. One theory states that most 
wolves spend their first three months with their own pack. During this time it’s good 
for them to easily form bonds with others. After that, when they explore the world with 
their pack and occasionally meet other wolves, the easy formation of social bonds 
would be detrimental, even dangerous. 
Oddly, cubs do not tend to form lasting bonds with those they meet, even though 
they have an easier time adjusting to people. While adult wolves take longer to adjust 
to people, they form lasting bonds - 
when you’ve befriended a wolf, odds are you’ve 
made a friend for life. The best way to make friends with a wolf is to spend time with 
it from childhood into adulthood, so that it becomes adjusted easily to the person’s 
presence and then forms a lasting bond. The Garou are well-aware of this (most of 
them), and make use of it when possible. 
In roleplaying terms: An adult wolf or lupus Garou, particularly one who did not 
meet any humans inits first three months, should beverydiffkult tomake friends with. 
She would view others with suspicion and some amount of fear. Physical proximity to 
strangers might make her physically ill if she hasn’t really dealt with humans before. 
Because of this, Garou do their best to acclimatize their lupus Kin to human presence 
while they’re young. 
Wolves an8 Physical Actiuity 
Behavior: A wolf may become so exhausted after a night’s hunt that she won’t 
even acknowledge the presence of an intruder in her den for the next few hours. 
Because of this, most septs have learned to put homid Garou on watch after long hunts 
or fierce battles. Wolves have a tendency to throw their all into physical activities, 
particularly those that satisfy base needs such as food and protection. This makes lupus 
Garou very dangerous foes as they will fight long past the point of exhaustion. 
In roleplaying terms: Wolves and lupus Garou throw everything they have into 
a fight. At the Storyteller’s discretion, lupus Garou and wolves may have an extra 
Willpower to spend during combat or hunts. Once the fight or hunt is over, the wolf 
will not be able to do anything but return home and sleep for the next four hours - 
even combat will not awaken him. An actual wound will awaken him, but he will be 
down two Physical Traits for the duration of the combat. This is an optional rule, and 
the Storyteller may prefer to leave this element of wolf personality strictly to 
roleplay ing. 
Oominance 
Behavior: There is a strict pecking order in wolf packs. It is linear - 
wolf A is 
dominant to B; B is dominant to C, and so on. Usually there are two lines in each pack, 
one male and one female. The alpha male tends to be dominant to the alpha female, 
except after the alpha female has given birth, when she is dominant to the alpha male 
for a short time. 
218 


In roleplaying terms: Wolves and lupus Garou believe in a strict order of rank \s 
even more so than other Garou do, and theirs is more gender-specific. This is 
something you’ll need to think about very carefully. You may decide that you can get 
a good story out of a lupus Garou who just doesn’t understand that a homid female of 
supposedly equal rank is not actually subordinate to him. However, some male players 
may take this as an opportunity to lord it over women and the women will, for very 
good reason, resent this. 
Behavior: Usually wolf packs form around a mated pair of wolves, the alpha male 
and alpha female. While either wolf may occasionally mate with a different wolf, their 
position at the top of the pecking order remains. If a wolf leaves the pack, however, 
for whatever reason, when she returns she will be at the bottom of the pecking order 
rather than at her old position, even if she had been the alpha. 
In roleplaying terms: The dominance and rank order of lupus packs is more pack- 
specific than in standard Garou society. A homid Garou might be very surprised to 
return to his old pack (made up of mostly lupus Garou) and find out that he’s 
subordinate to Garou of lower rank. Luckily, he may achieve his status again in the 
same way as always - 
by defeating those above him in challenges or in other ways 
proving himself to be their superior. 
Behavior: There are four basic types of wolves in a wolfpack. First, the alpha pair. 
Second, mature wolves who rank subordinate to the alpha pair. Third, “outcasts,” who 
rank very low and must stay near the fringes of the pack. Fourth, juvenile wolves, who 
don’t officially join the pack until they reach age two. 
The pecking order establishes two things: privilege and leadership. Higher- 
ranked wolves may take the best pickings of prey, for example. Higher-ranked wolves 
also make decisions for the pack. There is an exception to the privilege rule, however 
- 
any wolf is considered to “own” any item within one foot of its mouth; obviously 
this usually refers to food. 
In roleplaying terms: Anything that a Garou does not have on his person is 
considered to be fair game for a higher-ranked Garou to take. Homid Garou may take 
strong exception to this point of view. The whole reasoning behind this “rule” is that 
possessions are considered to belong to the pack as a whole. The higher-ranked Garou 
get best pickings because it is believed that they may put things to better use than 
lower-ranked Garou would. A player should not use this as an excuse to randomly take 
items she desires from other characters. 
Behavior: A wolf pack is run as a cross between an autocracy and a democracy. 
While the alpha male technically makes all of the decisions, he is expected to take the 
needs of the other wolves into account. For example, if he notices that the other 
members of the packare tired and can’t keep up, he won’t push them to keep traveling. 
In roleplaying terms: The alpha male is considered to have final say on any 
matter. However, he is expected to be fair and to have the best interests of the pack 
in mind. If he breaks this unspoken rule too often, he may find his pack doesn’t listen 
to him. 
Behavior: When a pack is stable (i.e., the membership does not change and does 
not undergo particularly hard times), the dominance order is likely to be stable. The 
more shake-ups there are, the more challenges there will be, and the more aggressively 
dominant the high-ranking wolves will be. 
In roleplaying terms: Characters should not be jockeying for positions of 
dominance during times of peace, when the composition of the pack is stable. Such 
challenges and shows of strength should be common, however, during times ofstruggle 
and changing pack composition. 
219 


T h e  Lowest Member of the @uck 
Behavior: The lowest member of the pack can be very low indeed, forced to 
follow as much as a mile behind the rest of the pack. He is chased away from kills, and 
there may be no food left by the time he gets to feed. In times of peace, when the wolves 
have no release for their aggression, they may take it out on this unfortunate wolf. In 
rare instances they may kill this wolf. 
In roleplaying terms: The lowest-ranked member of the pack will not be treated 
well by any lupus Garou. He will be pushed around, denied food from a kill and forced 
to walk separate from the pack in some instances (particularly in larger packs). He will 
probably be the butt of any jokes or pranks initiated by a lupus Ragabash. Before you 
decide whether to pay attention to this aspect of wolf behavior, talk to the player of 
the lowest-ranked member of the pack and find out whether he's willing to deal with 
roleplaying this. 
aoby Language 
Behavior: Dominance and submission are both displayed in body language. If a 
dominant wolf approaches one of a lower station, the lower-ranking wolf displays 
submissive behavior. 
Dominant behavior may include growling with teeth showing, confident stance, 
a fixed stare, wrinkled forehead, standing tall. Of course it also includes various bits of 
body language that humans can't replicate, but almost any confident body language 
will do. Emotionally speaking, the dominant wolf will display self-confidence and 
occasionally aggression toward to the subordinate wolf. 
Submissive behavior may include closed mouth, a crouched posture, lowered 
head and a smooth forehead with slitted eyes. When the subordinate wolf is very 
subordinate (such as the lowest-ranked wolfwith respect to the alpha), he may roll on 
his back and expose his throat. Emotionally speaking, the subordinate wolf will display 
friendliness and tolerance toward the higher-ranking wolf. The more subordinate the 
wolf, the more pronounced the behavior. 
In roleplaying terms: A little physical expression of rank can certainly make life 
interesting, especially as it may be misinterpreted by homid Garou. In simple terms, 
high-ranking wolves display confidence and sometimes even aggression. Low-ranking 
wolves display a shrinking stance, friendliness and a giving over of control. In a stable 
pack, the displays are likely to be simple self-confidence issues. In an unstable pack, 
aggression is more likely. The strength ofdisplay of dominance or submission is related 
to the difference in station between the two wolves, more than simply which is of 
higher or lower rank. 
Cer r it or iatism 
Behavior: Wolves tend to be hostile to intruders of their own species. If a pack 
finds a lone wolfor a duo in an area they consider their territory, they will likely chase 
it away. If they catch it, even if it displays submissive behavior, they will likely attack 
it, and perhaps even kill it. Most outside wolves survive such attacks only by breaking 
away and fleeing. 
Every once in a while, though - 
and no one is quite sure why - 
a pack might 
take a lone wolf in and make it a part of the pack. 
In roleplaying terms: One of the first things homid Garou learn to cure lupus 
Garou of is the tendency to attack others of their kind who are not of their pack. Lupus 
220 


/4 
Garou take some time to adjust to septs that include more than one pack, and even \ 
once adjusted can often be rude anddismissive toward Garou of other packs. Lone 
packs of all-lupus Garou may sometimes kill lone Garou who have strayed into their 
territory, or at least chase them away. 
Lupus Garou don’t like Garou or wolves who stray into an area they consider their 
territory. Lupus Garou who live in multi-pack septs have at least learned not to act on 
this dislike, although they may still feel it. This may result in rude or hostile behavior 
on the part of the lupus toward members of other packs. Some lupus come to consider 
the entire sept honorary members of their pack, and simply react this way against 
outsiders to the sept. This antagonism may be one way to encourage pack politics in 
your game. 
221 


Jackie stomped into the clearing, fuming with rage. Today had not been 
one of the better days - 
that Fianna Ragabash kept trying to goad her 
into losing her temper, and the one time Pete and Marja were actually 
united in something was telling her to shut up. What good was being a 
peacemaker if all everyone did was tell you to shut up, go away or “It’s a 
Garou thing, you wouldn’t understand”? She threw herself down on a 
fallen log. Let someone else play fix-up for a while! 
She had been so mad she hadn’t been paying attention to anything, until 
something tapped her foot, and she looked up. There was a young woman 
sitting across the clearing from her, smiling pleasantly, her eyes as brilliant 
as stars. She wore a faded cotton tunic and patterned skirt, long hair 
spilling down her back. “Rough day?’ she asked. 
Jackie thought she’d start spewing obscenity if she said anything, so she 
merely grumped noisily. The young woman sighed but did not comment. 
She crossed the clearing to sit next to Jackie, and for a long while, they 
simply stared up at the night sky. “Beautiful, isn’t it? No matter how long 
I’m here, I’ll never cease to be amazed by Gaia’s wonders.” She gave Jackie 
a sidelong glance. “Seems a pretty good reward to me for a day’s work.” 
There was something comforting in her voice, something Jackie hadn’t 
heard since coming to the caern. Her anger melted away; she felt tears 
prickling her eyes, and scrubbed at them. ‘‘I try to do my best, but how am 
I supposed to be a Philodox when I can’t even get my packmates to stop 
scrapping? How does anyone keep this up when you can’t even get little 
things done?” 
Her companion slipped an arm around her. “That’s the question we all 
face at some point. Even I had it, trying to mediate a peace between us and 
the Red Talons. In the end, though, it was something unexpected - 
a 
litter of pups in need, and never mind whose they were, they were children 
in need. It comes down to a matter of every little bit counts, no matter 
where it happened or when or why. If there is one person whose suffering 
can be alleviated, is that not enough? Doesn’t the Mother see every 
fledgling who falls from the nest, and anyone who helps him back in?” 
Jackie nodded. It felt so good to be sitting out here, talking with.. . with.. . ? 
There was a howl in the distance. The young woman stood up. “I have to 
get back. I’ll see you again, Jackie.” She started off into the darkness. 
“Wait! Who are you?” called Jackie as the girl disappeared into the night. 
A n  answer floated back: “Kelly - 
Kelly Still Waters., ..” 


(Zhrough the Curtain of Shabow 
Physical reality isn’t all that exists. Beyond the boundaries of the universe, just 
a step away, there’s a vast realm of spirit. Garou often call it the Umbra; other names 
include the spirit world, the Velvet Shadow and many more. Within it are Realms, 
little (or big) worlds of their own, reflecting every hope and fear that someone 
unleashed in a fit of passionate conviction and many other ideas never thought on 
Earth. The spirit world sustains material reality: Creation’s energy flows from spirit 
into matter, and when matter is finished, its essence returns to spirit. Events in the 
spirit world influence the material world and vice versa. 
A barrier separates the two worlds, a conceptual Gauntlet which keeps raw 
matter apart from raw spirit. Just as the Garou are creatures of two material families - 
human and animal - 
so they’re creatures of two worlds, made to walk among the 
spirits as well as on solid ground. Normal people and animals can’t sense the Gauntlet, 
let alone what’s on the other side, and the Garou ability to move through is responsible 
for much of the mystique about vanishing monsters. 
The Spirit Keeper 
This section presents a lot of information. Not only is it a lot for one 
Storyteller to keep track of but having Garou running around on both sides of 
the Gauntlet can run a Storyteller ragged in short order. Most chronicles 
designate one person as the Spirit Keeper, a Narrator who works specifically to 
create and play spirits Garou may encounter, adjudicate challenges relating to 
the Umbra, know what the Umbra is like in any given area of the chronicle and 
so on. The Spirit Keeper may create entire storylines or may work in a support 
role, depending on the needs of the chronicle. The Spirit Keeper’s word should 
be final with regard to spirit matters. 
224 
c 
f 
2 


The Worlb ana Its Parts 
Garou sages use different terms to refer to everything-that-exists and to particular 
parts of it. Most often, the word “Tellurian” applies to the entire universe, good and bad 
alike. “Gaia” is the fullness of Earth, its spiritual manifestations as well as material ones. 
A traveler who goes far enough in the Tellurian will eventually find everything, 
imagined and otherwise. Gaia floats in the middle, as far as Garou are concerned. 
Above, beyond the heavens, are Realms inhabited by pure ideas and concepts. 
Werewolves seldom deal with those places or their inhabitants; Gaia made them to 
act, not to cogitate. Down below, beneath mere darkness, are realms of the dead and 
the worse-than-dead. Some of the creatures of the depths invade the realms of the 
living, and then the Garou send them back to the depths with all due speed. More 
often, the dead and Neverbom pursue passions that have nothing at all to do with life. 
T h e  Cree anb the Chree 
There is a center to the universe. Human mystics who’ve caught glimpses of it 
call it the axis m u d ,  the World Tree and many other terms. Garou generally speak 
of the World Tree, anchored below the darkness and rising above the light, holding 
all worlds and realms among its branches. 
Three great forces wrap around the center: the Wyld, the Weaver and the Wyrm, 
collectively called the Triat. The Wyld creates substance (material and spiritual) out 
of nothing, the Weaver gives it duration and stability, and the Wyrm unravels it so 
that its essence can be recycled as fresh creation. At least that’s the way it’s supposed 
to work, and long ago it did. But long before any recorded history, the Triat all went 
insane. Stories vary as to which broke first; each tribe has a different idea about the 
catastrophe. The Wyld creates without purpose, spewing out things in an endless 
spasm, without vision or sense of completion. The Weaver tries to freeze everything 
just as it is, without any room for new life or the proper passing of what’s completed. 
The Wyrm devotes itself to corruption and destruction: not just to peaceful and 
appropriate conclusions but to pain and misery on the way to annihilation. Most 
Garou have long held the Wyrm to be their great enemy and the Wyld to be their 
strongest ally. Gradually they’ve realized that none of the elements within the Triat 
is good for them or for Gaia. Gaia loves Her children; nothing within the Triat does. 
(Not all tribes agree, and arguments as to which Triatic forces are most and least 
dangerous flare at every major gathering.) 
The madness in the heart of things echoes throughout creation. Spirits and animals 
fail to understand each other, creatures with independent wills pursue worthwhile ends 
(like creation and destruction) to extremism, and everywhere things suffer needlessly. 
In a world like this, the Garou have much to do, and they’ve been as much part of the 
problem as part of the solution in the past, failing to understand the many forms that 
“war” against the world’s enemies can take, or exalting one set of favored subjects for 
defense over others, and so on. It has brought the world to a very dark time. 
C h e  &arth anb the Gauntlet 
Although there’s much more than material beings see, matter is as real and 
important as spirit. The realm of the material senses is precious. Garou senses let them 
appreciate it in ways that few other living creatures can, both in its glories of health 
and vitality and in its pain of corruption and degradation. Their struggle isn’t just 
theoretical. 
225 
/’ 
I i 
i 


Y 
The spirit worlds touch the Earth at every point, but not directly. A barrier 
between spirit and matter, called the Gauntlet, stands between this world and the 
next. Where the Gauntlet is particularly weak, anyone can “step sideways” from one 
world into the other. Such a space exists in the heart of every major caem, and a few 
natural gateways still remain in remote comers of the world where isolation has 
preserved some echo of the original natural balance. 
The Gauntlet is one of the great works of the Weaver. By separating the worlds, 
the Gauntlet promotes stasis. Ironically, progress in civilization builds the Gauntlet 
stronger than almost anything else. This strikes many young Garou as a paradox, but 
it isn’t: As the march of civilization closes off belief in and contact with the spirit world, 
it locks humanity and the surrounding material world into a particular channel. 
Eventually people can only endlessly recombine and rearrange a limited set of ideas 
and tools. Fixed cycles are as hostile to creation and destruction as stillness. 
The Glass Walkers most actively champion the view that civilization itself is 
neutral, capable of tremendous good as well as great evil, and point to the myriad ways 
in which more technically advanced societies coexist better with nature than less 
advanced ones. The Red Talons argue that all civilization is by its very nature 
corrupting. The other tribes hold views in between these extremes. 
The Gauntlet has varying degrees of thickness depending on where the spirit 
world is touching Earth. In places where the natural world (the Wyld) holds sway or 
where belief in the spirits is more prevalent , the barrier thins, allowing for greater 
interaction between the worlds. Where the Weaver’s webs are particularly thick, or 
belief in the spirits is ridiculed and denied, the Gauntlet grows commensurately 
thicker; Garou find it difficult to hear spirits or interact with them where the Gauntlet 
is exceptionally high. 
Type of Area 
Gauntlet Level 
The greatest caems 
2 Traits 
Powerful caems 
3 Traits 
Typical active caems 
4 Traits 
Deep wilderness 
5 Traits 
Rural countryside 
6 Traits 
Most of the world 
7 Traits 
Decaying inner cities 
8 Traits 
Spirit-denying labs, classrooms, etc. 
9 Traits 
Note that not all science, industry and the like are equally Gauntlet-reinforcing. 
An ecologist who comes to a fresh appreciation of the role of apparently insignificant 
organisms in sustaining a whole environment may make it easier for people to accept 
some part of true nature of the world and allow the spirits more room in which to move 
- 
so can a manufacturer of homes with recycling and self-powering systems that let 
people live in the wilds without polluting them, a doctor who cures the illnesses that 
drive people into bitterness and despair or a capitalist who funds micro-banks and local 
enterprise to let the people of a formerly colonized nation regain practical indepen- 
dence. The Gauntlet grows or falls on the basis of intent, not simply on whether 
sophisticated devices are present. 
226 


Caerns 
Each caem has a power level, rated on a scale from 1 to 5. The higher the rating, 
the more potent the spirits associated with the caem. Many difficult interactions with 
the spirit world become easier around a well-maintained powerful caem. 
Caern Level 
Gauntlet 
Moon Bridge Distance 
(based on caem of ori- 
gin, not destination) 
1 
4 Traits 
1,000 miles 
2 
4 Traits 
2,000 miles 
3 
3 Traits 
3,000 miles 
4 
3 Traits 
6,000 miles 
5 
2 Traits 
10,000 miles 
Caern Type 
Power 
Spirits Encountered 
All 
Open Moon Bridge 
(if caems at both ends have completed Rite of the Opened Bridge, p. 154) 
Enigmas 
Enigmas Ability 
Illusion, Shadow, 
Chameleon-spirit 
Gnosis 
Gnosis Traits 
Engling, Ghost 
Healing 
Health levels 
Peace, Calm, Water 
elemental 
Leadership 
Leadership or Intimidation Ability 
War, Bird-spirit 
Rage 
Rage Traits 
War, Pain 
Stamina 
Soak levels 
Protection, Guardian, 
Strength 
Strength-related Traits 
War 
Urban 
Streetwise ability 
City elemental 
Vision 
Oracular visions 
Bird-spirit 
Will 
Willpower Traits 
War, Ancestor-spirit 
Wisdom 
Rituals or Expression Ability 
Owl-spirit, Ancestor. 
Wyld 
Anything 
Wyldling 
Notes: The Rite ofcaern Openingprovides a bonus of one Trait per level ofcaem 
power for a particular attribute, based on the caem type. Spirits of many sorts gather 
around all caems, but some spirits preferentially seek out particular sorts of caems. 
This is not an exclusive list; Storytellers and players can work out other sorts of 
caems to suit the needs of a particular chronicle. 
Turtle-spirit 
spirit 
(zhe Penumbra 
Just on the other side of the Gauntlet lies the realm that Garou called the 
Penumbra. Its name tells an important truth about it: The Penumbra is Earth's 
reflection within the spirit world. Where Earth is healthy, the Penumbra prospers with 
exuberant diversity of spirits and where the Earth sickens and dies, the Penumbra does 
as well. Anything - 
organic or artificial - 
that lasts a long time on Earth gains a 
counterpart in the Penumbra so that ancient trees and buildings alike have their 
spiritual counterparts. 
227 


The Penumbra isn’t just the passive mirror for Earth, however. Wyld-spirits move 
through prosperous natural areas, and their actions strengthen the creative force on 
Earth. Weaver-spirits weave spiritual webs in the cities and blighted wild lands, and 
those webs reinforce the drive to stasis. Wynn-spirits move wherever they are 
unopposed, spreading corruption and death across the Gauntlet. Destroying the 
spiritual counterpart of something material weakens it on Earth while blessing and 
protecting it in the Penumbra may help its material form endure. 
There are few living things moving in the Penumbra apart from native spirits. 
Animals and people almost never manifest in the spirit world and when they do it’s 
generally as a hazy blur scarcely aware of what’s going on. Magicians can cross the 
Gauntlet, but they almost always go on to realms that don’t concern the Garou, and 
ghosts, dead people who’ve drawn the Second Breath and other such creatures from 
Umbral depths likewise move to and from places outside Garou awareness. 
The Penumbra includes countless Domains, small zones which border both the 
physical world and the Near Umbra. They draw energy out of deeper portions of the 
Umbra so as to manifest close to Gaia. Common Domains include: 
Blights - 
Mixed WeaverrJVyrm areas which appear as polluted, web-ridden 
cityscapes. 
Chimares - 
Individualized Domains built on dreams and nightmares open to 
every creature that can dream. Like dreams, they can range from euphoric and 
wondrous to unimagined horrors. 
Epiphs - 
Each Epiph embodies an abstract idea or concept, from “low” to 
“seven” to “green.” Garou find them confusing at best, though some individuals claim 
that meditating in an Epiph provides potent insights. 
Glens - 
Gaian and Wyld energies remain strong in these domains, where 
sentient trees and talking animals inhabit incredibly fertile little environments - 
not 
just forests but archetypal pictures of health for every climate from tundra to desert. 
Hellholes -These 
Domains correspond to the most heavily polluted parts of 
the world, such as toxic waste dumps and the congested hearts of the world’s biggest, 
smoggiest cities. Banes infest Hellholes, and Wyrm-creatures use Hellholes as chan- 
nels into the material world. 
Trods - 
Places where faeries come (or used to) acquire a distinct atmosphere 
of their own. Trods are the Domains where faeries congregated frequently before the 
Weaver’s encroachment drove them from the world and where a few still gather. 
Webs - In these Domains, the Weaver influence is triumphant. They 
correspond to areas where technology and soul-destroying impulses are both strong, 
and Pattern Spiders and Net-Spiders feast on the results. 
Wyldings - 
In these increasingly rare Domains, the Wyld dominates. Nothing 
is stable or constant, and while they’re seldom actively hostile, Wyldlings can be 
tremendously dangerous. 
The sun doesn’t shine in the Umbra though there can be an ambient glow in areas 
where the Gauntlet is weak. There is a distinct cycle of true night and mere twilight 
gloom, andnight in the Umbra is when many Garoufeel most truly alive and complete. 
Spirits surround them, the moon shines with an intensity found nowhere on Earth 
except in deepest wilderness and the midst of great oceans, and everything is very 
intensely itself. Weaver-spirits exhausted from their day’s labor are easier prey; Wyrm- 
creatures are often in their Blights, manipulating the minds of sleeping human hosts. 
It’s a good time for Gaia’s warriors to do what they do best. 
228 


Stepping Sibeways 
Crossing the Gauntlet is like passing through a cold waterfall, only more so. For 
a moment the Garou isn’t anywhere at all, chilled by the void and mind detached from 
body. Then self and universe return. Many people occasionally sense the spirit world 
waiting just out of reach. Garou feel that calling more often and more strongly, and 
after they undergo First Change, they gain an intuitive grasp ofhow to get through the 
barrier. 
Crossing the Gauntlet requires a Static Gnosis Challenge against the local 
Gauntlet rating. If the Garou 
to make the transition. The G 
about 30 seconds or two to ma 
ps - 
but botching a 
may not spend Rage in the 
same turn nor step sidew 
ntagonists break mirrors and the 
like to make it more difficult for werewolves to escape. 
If all characters are on one side of the Gauntlet or the other, there’s no need to 
worry about indicating which side it is: they all know, or should. If some characters are 
in the Umbra and some not, each player of an Umbral character should put her right 
arm across her chest. This indicates that she’s not visible or otherwise noticeable - 
in fact, she’s not actually there and likely herself unaware of what’s going on - 
to 
characters on Earth. 
The Hear Umbra 
Moon bridges lead out of the Penumbra and into the Near Umbra. Here things 
have their own patterns and arrangements independent of close ties to Earth. The 
Realms orbit Gaia as the moon orbits the Earth, through an endless swirling haze. 
Totems and countless other spirits inhabit the Realms, pursuing dreams and plans that 
often make little or no sense to creatures accustomed to terrestrial logic. Some love the 
Garou, some fear them, others hate them. Everything in imagination is here, 
somewhere, in this mass of chaotic patterns. 
The 13 Near Realms dominate the Near Umbra. Each Near Realm is a pocket of 
tremendous spiritual power held together within a protective membrane; once inside, 
everything feels as solid as matter. Different “natural” laws apply to each, reflecting the 
Realm’s nature and inhabitants. Around them swing the Domains, sub-Realms and 
Zones. The Domains include tribal homelands, among many other features. Every 
Near Realm and some of the more powerful lesser realms arises from the collision 
229 


between raw power from one or another of the Triatic forces with some part of the 
constant outward flux of spiritual passion from the Gaia Realm. Some realms strongly 
reflect the Triatic power that energizes them while others more closely resemble the 
terrestrial impulses which give them form. 
The Near Realms include: 
The Abyss -The Abyss is a literal pit, a chasm large enough to swallow the 
Grand Canyon and never notice. Acts of extreme destruction make the fabric of the 
spirit world break apart, and the Abyss is the biggest such rift. Monstrous creatures 
dwell on the brink, worshipping the power of destruction and doing their part to keep 
a steady stream of things (and people) flowing into it. Once something disappears into 
the Abyss, it’s never seen again. Some Garou describe the Abyss as a cancer in the 
Umbra, and folklore says the mouth of the Wyrm lies an infinite depth below. Even 
Incamae avoid this Realm. 
Aetherial Realm -This Realm is “above” everything else in the Near Umbra, 
closest to the heavenly light that stretches between Gauntlet and Deep Umbra. The 
Planetary Incamae live here, as do many powerful spirits of air and stars. All moon 
bridges travel through the Aetherial Realm, though most travelers move so fast they 
don’t have time to see the sights. This is also where Anthelios, the new red star, shines 
most brightly. 
Atrocity Realm - 
Every intentionally inflicted pain strengthens this realm. 
Banes breed in pits Scrags guard and refine their powers on spirits caught in endless 
reenactments of warfare, genocide, rape, slaughter, child abuse and every other pain 
one sentient being inflicts on another. Garou commonly point to the Atrocity Realm 
to justify their violence against humanity, and generally refrain from calling attention 
to the suffering their kind creates, which is also reflected here. 
Battleground - 
This is the Realm of War. Spirit warriors fight reenactments 
of every battle from the Impergium to this year’s border wars. Signposts show the way, 
and the battles are arranged in consecutive rings around the Plain of the Apocalypse, 
which awaits, empty, for the last battle. The difficul ty of all frenzy challenges is reduced 
by two Traits here, and Garou automatically gain a Rage Trait each tum they’re in 
combat. Garou sometimes come here to study their enemies’ Umbral manifestations, 
to learn about great battles of the past or just to unleash their Rage where it won’t harm 
Gaia. 
CyberRealm -This Realm embodies technology gone amok. Half the realm 
is a super-city of glass, concrete, steel and plastic, the other half a subterranean realm. 
The inhabitants must constantly fight against machines which develop malevolent 
wills of their own. Glass Walkers in particular find it fascinating, albeit dangerous, and 
explore it in search of new weapons to use against the Wyrm. 
Erebus -This Realm lies “below” everything else in the Near Umbra, and is 
considered the Purgatory for Garou. A lake of molten silver fills its heart, where Garou 
bum constantly, regenerating just enough to suffer more aggravated damage. A three- 
headed wolf creature prevents them from leaving, and the handful who’ve managed 
to escape (or eamed release) seldom talk about it. Opinions differ as to whether it’s a 
torment crafted by the Wyrm or some other foe, a means of purification gone wrong 
or something else. 
Flux - 
Untrammeled Wyld energy created this Realm. Garou say that the 
ragingpowerofcreation unfettered by stability or destruction sustains Gaia in the face 
of Her enemies, even though it can cast forth monsters of its own as formidable as any 
Wyrm-spawn. Everything is possible here: time shifts, the collapse or distortion of 
230 


space, the failure of causality and memory and identity. Werewolves who learn to [s 
maintain a sense ofselfhere can wield godlike power.. . until further changes take the 
power away. Nothing can be bound or controlled here for very long. 
Legendary Realm - 
Stories can come to life just like other sorts of ideas. This 
realm incorporates the greatest legends of every Garou tribe into a single composite 
fantasy-land, where every hero and villain exists simultaneously. Garou come here to 
learn wisdom in the territory that corresponds to their tribe’s ancestral homeland. 
Malfeas -Just 
as the Flux is where the Wyld manifests most strongly in the 
Near Umbra, this is the Wyrm’s home close to the Gauntlet. No Garou goes here 
willingly: This is where their greatest enemies breed, and the spirits that govern it 
would greatly reward any Bane who captured a werewolf intruder. The Black Spiral 
whichdefines the Black Spiral Dancers is here, and prisoners are often forced to dance 
it, often after excruciating tortures. 
Pangaea - 
Earth didn’t begin with humanity or the Garou. This Realm 
collects the spiritual energy let loose by the ages of long ago; here spirits in the forms 
ofdinosaurs, archaic trees and other vanished life flourish. Every species that ever lived 
has its place here, along with the Incama dragon known as the Elder Serpent. Wyrm- 
creatures make constant, peculiarly intense efforts to see this Realm destroyed, and 
many Garou suspect that somewhere in it is a secret that could preserve the world 
through Apocalypse. All Garou in Pangaea receive one Gnosis Trait at dawn and get 
one automatic success on all challenges involving PrimaLUrge. 
Scar - 
The flood of ideas and experiences that inaugurated the Industrial 
RevoltuioncreatedScar. This Realmembodieseverything that’s worst about industry: 
pollution, slums, decay, waste. Scar factories produce potent Wyrm fetishes, and the 
Gauntlet is nine Traits thick throughout the Realm. Garou point to Scar as justifica- 
tion for their hatred of industrial regimes (ignoring the fact that Scar is a highly 
selective reflection). 
Summer Country - 
If this Realm still exists, it’s difficult to find, and some 
Garou insist it never existed as anything but a story. (Of course, in the Umbra stories 
have a life of their own.. . .) If it’s out there still, Summer Country embodies the 
peaceful state of Gaia before the Triat’s madness. Everything is in harmony on the 
crescent-shaped island that rises from a perfect blue sea. All wounds and suffering are 
healed here, all curses fall away. No Garou ever gets here by choice; Gaia grants the 
right of visiting to a chosen few who begin to comprehend Her glory. 
Wolfhome - 
At first glimpse, this Realm looks just like the material world. It 
isn’t. Garou who enter it are transformed into lupus form and denied access to Gifts, 
rites and fetishes. Human and monstrous hunters pursue them with everything from 
gunmen in helicopters to complex snares, and only regeneration and Rage can keep 
Garou alive. “Guests” leave only after they understand the wolfs place in the world 
as experienced this way, with the trauma of the wolf experience magnified and 
illuminated. 
The Dream Zone doesn’t play by the same rules as most of the rest of the Umbra. 
It weaves across the Near and Deep Umbra, borders moving in accordance with no 
easily discernable principle. The Chimares don’t begin to compare with the Dream 
Zone; so close to the Gauntlet, they have an internal discipline that the Dream Zone 
just doesn’t. Spirit travelers can, instead of moving out past the Gauntlet and into the 
Near Umbra, go inward, through their own dreams to emerge at the border ofNear and 
Deep Umbra. This is sometimes very useful, but it’s always dangerous - 
everything 
people dream is real somewhere in the Dream Zone, and it may arrive or depart at any 
moment. 
231 


, 
‘j 
In the deDths of the Near Umbra, where the Deep Umbra rises to meet it, the 
Vistas offer a different sort of experience. Spirit travelers can’t enter the Vistas, but 
they can look in for glimpses of abstract concepts - 
death, chaos, stasis, joy, etc. - 
in whatever expression makes sense to the viewer. Some mystics say the Vistas are the 
closed doors to the Heavens. 
Finally, at the very outermost edge of the Near Umbra (insofar as spatial terms 
make sense), there’s the Membrane which holds the Near Umbra separate from the 
Deep Umbra. The Membrane is even less permeable than the Gauntlet, and Garou 
who wish to enter the Deep Umbra must go to one of the Anchorhead Realms fused 
into the Membrane itself. Some Stargazers (and mystics of other tribes) say that the 
Gauntlet and the Membrane are just the first two of seven layers of Weaver-power that 
encases the spirit world, and that the Dream Zone runs to them all. Few travelers are 
in a position to experiment and say for sure. 
T h e  D e e p  Umbra 
Beyond the Membrane there’s an even more infinite realm, if that concept makes 
any sense. Existence as mortal creatures know it breaks down in favor of the 
independent flourishing of abstract concepts, alien environments and experiences 
that no mortal mind can comprehend. The Triat live here, and Luna orbits through 
here, offering one of the few points of comfort and stability available to Garou. 
The fleriphery 
The Gauntlet stretches and “leaks,” letting some spiritual energy through so that 
extremes of abundance or deprivation don’t rip it apart. The resulting trickles of spirit 
don’t do the Garou much good, but they can make a real difference to human beings 
seeking the spiritual. The Periphery is where the Deep Umbra draws closest to the 
material world, and individuals who attune themselves to the flow of spirit through the 
Gauntlet can leave their physical selves behind to enter the larger universe. 
Within the Periphery, there are uncounted small realms of experience for every 
emotionand passionandstateofmind. Aperson whoentersand leavessafelycancamy 
away great inspiration. Unfortunately, not everyone makes the trip safely. Drugs that 
open the doors of perception can open them too wide, refuse to shut or swing open and 
closed erratically. The ascetic denial or epicurean indulgence that sets a spiritual trip 
in motion may harm the body while its soul is gone, and subconscious desires about 
what a traveler denied or pursued to get started may contaminate the experience 
(subtly or blatantly). A passion pursued to the point of enlightenment may then run 
on further on its own initiative into realms of degradation and suffering. A vision of 
holy truth may become garbled in memory and act as the rationale for acts of great 
horror. The Periphery is not a tame place. 
People who spend time with werewolves are more likely to touch the Periphery. 
Garou sages argue about why this should be, but the fact remains even if the people 
never learn abut the werewolves’ true natures. 
T h e  O a r k  Umbra 
Death is as essential to the universe as life, and there are spirits associated with 
death just like anything else. Garou know little about the Darkumbra, partly because 
they don’t spend much time there. When Garou die, their souls linger as ancestor- 
spirits or are reborn in other bodies. They worry about dyingpoorly and its consequences 
for their souls, but not about death itself. Human beings, on the other hand, die and 
232 


pass out of the world forever. Their souls must struggle to resist Oblivion and a 
corruption inside themselves that can turn them into ravening monsters as fearsome 
as any Wyrm-spawn. Human ghosts seldom get the chance to redress old wrongs or 
finish uncompleted business, and the fear of death and eternity weighs heavily inside 
most people, whether they realize it or not. Most Garou believe that human beings’ 
own fears built the Dark Umbra, though some say that it’s as ancient as the rest of the 
universe and in its way even necessary. The vast majority of Garou are content to stay 
well away, whatever the truth of origins may be. 
I 
Oisconnecfian 
I 
Garou who spend too much time on just one side of the Gauntlet - 
either in the material world or in the Umbra - 
risk detachment and madness 
or Harano. A Garou who spends more than a month in the Umbra takes on 
spiritlike qualities, becoming ephemeral, having difficulty remembering life 
on Earth, losing the desire to return and eventually vanishing. If forced to 
return, she’ll likely go berserk and become deranged, if not locked in 
perpetual frenzy. Garou who stay too long on Earth gradually lose their ability 
to regain Gnosis, use Gifts or do anything else that draws on the spirit world. 
They become bitter, bleak and argumentative and often develop addictions to 
compensate for the absence of spirit within. The difficulty of all spirit-related 
challenges rises by one Trait for every six months a Garou spends without 
entering the Umbra. 
I 
I 
Crawling in the Umbra 
Entering the Umbra only takes a moment. Traveling in it can take quite a while. 
Space and time are variable in the Umbra, and often the conceptual distance between 
ideas matters more than what maps or clocks say. A werewolf traveling to the 
Battleground Realm, for instance, will find whatever path she’s on gradually taking on 
elements of Battleground: the sound of combat, ashes and smoke in the air, bones and 
rusted weapons appearing and so on. 
Paths are essential in the Umbra. An individual Garou’s will just isn’t strong 
enough to reliably set a direction for her movement, not without some help. Garou 
who leave the paths available to them very easily become lost forever, caught in the 
swirl of ideas, realms and inhabitants who may not have anything good in mind for the 
traveler. 
Moon Paths - 
Garou travel via moon paths, one of many gifts from Luna. A 
moon path appears as a shaft of moonlight in the Penumbra, and a Garou who steps 
on it finds himself moving with it through the swirl of spirits. Moon-spirits known as 
Lunes guard moon paths, and they don’t always agree with their mistress that Garou 
should be using the paths. During the full moon, the Lunes may try to lure Garou off, 
particularly by taunting or menacing travelers from just beyond a path‘s edge. During 
the crescent moon, moon paths often twist to pass by and through spirits which reflect 
travelers’ subconscious desires or some inward sense of doubt about a conscious goal, 
and it may take substantial skill in unraveling enigmas to avoid succumbing to the 
temptations. Moon paths remain during the new moon, but Lunes don’t guard them 
at that time, and foul spirits of all kinds swarm them so that any Garou using a moon 
path during the new moon must prepare for a great many conflicts. 
233 


Spirit Tracks- Airts or spirit tracks are paths blazed by spirits moving through 
the Umbra. They’re not nearly as reliable as moon paths and go wherever some spirit 
thought was worth going, but they’re much more desirable than random wandering. 
If Banes or other forces destroy the spirits who created an airt, the airt also disappears, 
leaving anyone on it at a dead end or, worse yet, shunted surreptitiously onto a path 
leading to the destroyer. Umbral winds erase many airts, so travelers can’t count on a 
particular route remaining in place very long. 
Gates - 
Caerns can bind themselves to each other, and so can other places. 
Some ancient sites ofpower are linked by channels spirits created long ago. The Black 
Portal, for instance, is an iron gateway in the Penumbra of the Greek highlands. 
Anyone stepping through it moves instantly to the heart of Erebus. The secret of gate 
creation was lost long ago, though corrupting spirits can string along modern seekers 
with promises of teaching it. Since the supply of gates is essentially finite, discovering 
an unknown gate can win much Renown for its finders. 
Webs - 
Weaver-spirits’ webs bind much of the Umbra together. This isn’t 
innately bad. Without the Weaver, nothing would last long enough to have an 
identity. It’s bad only when it chokes off new creation and prevents appropriate 
destruction. Some Garou now use the webs as alternative roads, taking on Pattern 
Spiders and other obstacles along the way. Traditional lore says nothing of this 
approach and it’s not widely recommended, but Garou who gain new insights into how 
to do it safely can win Renown. 
Wyrm Tunnels - 
The Wyrm’s servants also have their routes to almost 
everywhere, which manifest as tunnels hewn out of rocklike substances rather than 
paths in mist and air. Banes fill these tunnels, and Black Spiral Dancers use them to 
move across the Gauntlet on their missions of doom. Occasionally a brave pack 
ventures into a Wyrm tunnel. In every case so far, sometime later their pack- and 
septmates gave up hoping for their return and observed the mourning rites, and the 
explorers were never seen again alive or dead. The Wyrm tunnels are simply not 
suitable for Garou. 
be ekin 9 
Garou can try to look through the Gauntlet to observe Earth from the Umbra, or 
vice versa. This requires a Static Gnosis Challenge against the Gauntlet rating + three 
Traits, maximum of 10. (Gifts like Pulse of the Invisible make this easier.) The peek 
doesn’t provide a detailed view - 
it’s monochromatic, fine details like newsprint are 
blurred, and sounds are muffled. Smells come through without interruption. A 
peeking Garoucanspendone Mental Trait toresolve fine details, or two Mental Traits 
to bring the whole scene into vivid clarity as if she were standing there on the other 
side of the Gauntlet. 
While peeking, a Garou can’t sense what’s going on her side ofthe Gauntlet until 
she starts losing health levels. She won’t hear others speaking to her and cannot resist 
others’ attacks as long as they don’t actually remove health levels. 
Spirits cannot peek, but they can observe changes across the Gauntlet in their 
own ways. Some simply know relevant things intuitively, some study changes on their 
side of the Gauntlet, some remain perpetually aware of events on both sides of the 
Gauntlet - 
caern spirits are among these. 
, 
234 


Spirits 
There’s a spirit for every thought and emotion, every person, place and thing, and 
for a great many things that don’t exist in the material world at all. Some spirits hew 
closely to Earth while others stay far away, and some may not even know about it. 
Spirits don’t have free will or personalities in the way humans and Garou do. While 
each spirit has some ability to respond to its circumstances, it cannot act against the 
impulse that gives it form, nor can it disobey the commands of more powerful spirits. 
As far as the Garou know, the most powerful spirit is Gaia, with the Triat below 
Her. (Certain very experienced Umbral travelers say that the Tellurian holds more 
than one Realm equivalent to the Gaia Realm, with its own layers and complexities. 
It’s hard for anyone else to know how much of such claims might be true and how much 
might be the confusion that afflicts everyone who stays in the Deep Umbra too long.) 
The godlike Celestines hold their courts with less power than the Triat, and the 
Incama serve the various Celestines. The Jagglings and Gafflings act on behalf of the 
Incarnae, like knights and vassals of the spiritual kingdoms. 
The Garou face the same problem that all people who believe in a fundamentally 
good Creator do: How can a good Gaia allow the madness of the Triat and all the 
suffering that comes with it? There are no universally satisfying answers. Certainly 
death is a part of the cycle that includes creation, and certainly free will is important 
for some kinds of living beings, important enough to respect even when they misuse 
it. But still, debate about what it all means rages on, in between battles to avoid 
Apocalypse and the whole thing becoming moot. 
Motoriety 
Spirits remember the Garou they encounter, and they talk to each other. Garou 
who show marked disrespect, extreme carelessness and the like develop a bad 
reputation, measured in levels of Notoriety. Each Notoriety Trait imposes a one-Trait 
penalty on challenges to summon spirits, and may act as a penalty in Social Challenges 
against spirits as well except for Intimidation challenges, in which eachNotoriety Trait 
provides a one-Trait bonus 
There’s no hard and fast rule for when to assign or remove a Notoriety Trait. Any 
act that makes a well-informed Spirit Keeper gasp in horror and want to drag the 
character (or player) aside for a remedial lecture is a good candidate for rewarding with 
Notoriety. Summoning spirits without need, failing to observe proper rites of respect, 
altering spirits against their will for no particularly important reason and forcing a 
spirit to act strongly contrary to its nature can all eam Notoriety. Acts of great 
reverence, courageous defense, intelligent assistance and the like each remove a 
Notoriety Trait, although a spirit that is easily offended is less easily placated. 
Obviously context counts in this, which means that players and Storytellers need 
to approach the matter flexibly rather than with mechanistic rigidity. Very few spirits 
care about Banes being mistreated, nor do most Wyrm, Weaver or Wyld minions care 
what other spirits think about GaTou’s behavior. Sometimes difficult circumstances 
warrant not penalizing otherwise bad behavior, while when things go very well, spirits 
are more attentive to slights and less forgiving of minor irritations. 
235 


I 
Oans 
y 
Each totem spirit (see below) imposes a Ban or behavioral restriction on its 
followers. Other spirits may require a Ban as part of an exchange. Garou might, for 
instance, have to agree to accept a Ban against a form of bad behavior as the price of 
removingNotoriety,ormightneed toacceptadutyto actacertainwayin keepingwith 
a spirit’s nature in exchange for access to its information. Garou may also volunteer 
to accept a Ban as a token of their sincerity and dedication, and this almost always 
inclines spirits to listen more favorably. 
A Garou who breaks a Ban automatically gains two Notoriety Traits and gains 
back any Notoriety that might have been released by accepting the Ban in the first 
place. No spirit will trust the offender for weeks, at least. Particularly flagrant 
violations may cost the Garou Honor or Wisdom Renown; the spirits will certainly 
inform the offender’s packmates and septmates, who will then decide whether further 
action is warranted. 
See the list of totem spirits for representative Bans. Other common minor Bans 
include never or always wearing a particular color, never or always eating a particular 
meat or other food, never entering a door of a particular color, never or always sleeping 
indirect moonlight, and so on. Common major Bans include performing asacrifice on 
each instance of a certain occasion (comparable to the Rite of the Prey), agreeing to a 
demanding quest or journey, adopting a new name (and forsaking one’s current 
identity) and freeing one or more captive spirits. 
C h e  Hierarchy of Spirits 
The Triat 
The Triat embody forces that no single word can sum up. They are creation, 
growth and destruction, but also potential, materialization and unraveling, and chaos, 
order and balance. The great tragedy of the Triat is precisely that they no longer fulfill 
so much of their own natures. 
The Wyld -All 
creation begins with the Wyld, pure potential unlimited by 
any boundary or definition. The Wyld itself endures, but without the Weaver’s 
intercession none of its creations endure. Left to its own devices, the Wyld endlessly 
spawns new things and pays no attention as they dissolve back into unformed 
substance. In the Deep Umbra, the Wyld is perhaps the most powerful member of the 
Triat. Close to Earth, the increasingly defined nature of existence weakens it, and 
within the Gauntlet it’s by far the weakest Triatic force. 
Garou tradition venerates the Wyld as the changers’ greatest ally in the fight to 
preserve the world. Its Realms are filled with spirits, many of whom do help the Garou 
as best they can. The Wyld itself never answers the Garou or acknowledges their 
presences, and Wyld minions can make the greatest servants of the Weaver and Wyrm 
tremble for sheer menace. Creation does not distinguish between good and bad. 
The Weaver - 
Everything that endures owes its existence to the Weaver. 
Growth only means something when there’s continuity of existence, and the Weaver 
makes that continuity possible. In the time ofbalance, the Weaver would take the raw 
creations of the Wyld and set them into a form that gave them substance and 
permanence. When it was time for things to change and end, the Wyrm would prune 
them away and the Weaver would let them go. Depending on who tells the story, the 
Weaver attempted to impose a single pattern on all of existence at once, paralyzing the 
236 


Wyld and driving the Wyrm into a frenzied effort to compensate that ended in [s 
madness. Some say the Weaver set out to make a single causality triumphant, snaring 
the Wyrm to remove the challenge of any other notion of balance and driving the 
Wyrm mad with the pain of confinement; or the Wyrm took the initiative in driving 
the Weaver to madness. 
Most Garou agree that the Weaver was the first Triatic force to become self- 
aware, and that may be part of the problem. Whatever the case, the Weaver now seeks 
stagnation rather than maturation, and immobility rather than prosperous growth and 
development. If its forces prevail, the universe will lie immobile forever. 
The Wyrm- Originally the Wyrm brought balance to the universe, removing 
things whose time had past and encouraging growth by careful pruning. It maintained 
the harmony of forces, allowing neither Weaver nor Wyld to run amok. Then the 
Wyrm looked too long into the Weaver’s webs, and its personality shattered into three 
parts. The Beast-of- War is the Wyrm of Destruction, devoted purely and simply to the 
end of everything. The Easter-of-Souls, the Wyrm of Consumption, aims to incorpo- 
rate everything within itself, uniting the passions of greed, gluttony and envy. The 
Defiler Wyrm, the Wyrm of Violation, doesn’t seek to destroy but to degrade, forcing 
each thing to become what it most hates. If the Wyrm prevails, everything will be like 
the Wyrm Realms of the Umbra, until at last everything in them ceases to exist at all. 
C h e  Celestines 
The Celestines are the spirits behind the major celestial bodies. The most 
powerful are Luna, spirit of the Moon, and Helios, spirit of the Sun. The Celestine of 
Earth doesn’t manifest all of Gaia’s glory: She’s associated specifically with the planet 
Earth. The Celestines all spend most of their time engaged in their own designs, and 
few spirits of lower than Incarna rank ever disturb them. The Celestines do sometimes 
send avatars - 
comprehensible beings which make a fraction of their creator’s power 
manifest - 
to interact with werewolves and other changing breeds. Each Celestine 
can have more than one avatar active at a time, and even these limited forms seem 
essentially omnipotent and omniscient to any being born on Earth. 
lncarnae 
The Incarnae are the advisors, soldiers, errand-runners and consorts of the 
Celestines. Some occupy their own Realms, but most live with the Celestines they 
serve and do not claim power separate from their lords. Each Incama presides over a 
specific sphere of influence, like War, Despair, Hope or Australia. Many Incarnae 
hope to achieve Celestine status themselves someday, gaining personal power as their 
sphere of influence becomes more important to the worlds. 
Totem spirits are (generally) lower-powered Incamae who take on the duty of 
guiding a pack, sept or tribe. Like the Celestines, totem Incarnae create avatars 
comparable to Jagglings in form and powers. While Incarnae are at least comprehen- 
sible, unlike the Celestines, they’re still vastly more powerful than any Garou will ever 
be, and an encounter with an Incarna in its native form and habitat is awe-inspiring. 
Yagglings 
The Jagglings occupy the broad territory between spirits of very specific places 
and objects and spirits of wide-ranging concepts. Their ranks include monsters such 
as Vortices, Nexus Crawlers and Pattern Spiders. Some Jagglings teachGifts, andsome 
(like Englings) can grant Gnosis or other benefits to entire septs at a time. Most 
237 


I 
Jagglings serve one of the Incarnae; a few, mostly very powerful, Jagglings serve 
Celestines directly. Jagglings are createdout of the substance of their masters and have 
loyalty built into their very natures, but some are given free will to better discharge 
their duties. 
G u f f 1 in g s 
Gafflings serve Jagglings, and seldom enjoy real sentience. They exist to dis- 
charge particular tasks; many come into existence, perform a chore and then dissolve. 
Even the ones who last lack the capacity for independent action, growth or change. 
Their masters remain intimately linked to them, so that whatever a Gaffling experi- 
ences, the Jaggling (or perhaps Incarna) behind it knows. A few Gafflings enjoy 
intelligence; all the ones that do seem to be the creations ofhigh powers for mysterious 
ends. 
Spirit Traits 
Spirits don’t have the range of Attributes that physical beings do. Everything 
they undertake relies on Willpower, Rage or Gnosis. Many possess Charms, distinct 
abilities like Gifts. Instead of health levels, each spirit has an Essence rating, which 
damage reduces. Each type of trait behaves somewhat differently for spirits than for 
creatures of matter. 
Willpower - 
Willpower provides coordination and self-control, and makes 
possible the equivalent of physical actions like moving and attacking. Willpower also 
lets a spirit reduce incoming damage. Most actions a spirit takes involve a Static 
Willpower Challenge of varying difficulty: three Traits for easy actions, five Traits for 
simple ones, six Traits for normal undertakings, eight Traits for difficult actions and 
10 Traits for efforts that are almost guaranteed to fail. Challenges that would be 
physical for Garou are based on Willpower for spirits. 
Rage - 
Rage gives spirits the will to live and enables them to inflict harm on 
others. Once a spirit wins a Willpower Challenge to hit a target, Rage determines the 
damage done. In addition, a Garou or other creature attacking a spirit pits his relevant 
Traits against the spirit’s Rage. The Storyteller may modify this difficulty for spirits 
who are particularly good or bad at combat. 
Gnosis -Spirits 
use Gnosis for Mental and Social Challenges. High Gnosis 
also often helps Charms work more effectively. 
Essence - 
The initial Essence rating for a spirit is the sum of its Willpower, 
Rage and Gnosis. Any damage that Willpower does not reduce removes Essence 
Traits. When a spirit reaches zero Essence, it “dies” and dissolves into the Umbra 
unless bound into a fetish or otherwise exploited. Spirits who slip away enter Slumber 
and gradually regain lost Essence before reemerging. 
A spirit in Slumber floats in some secluded location in deep sleep, and its 
consciousness may go to some Umbral dream world. A Slumbering spirit can easily be 
bound through a rite that it could resist while awake. Spirits in fetishes automatically 
enter Slumber and remain that way until release. 
Spirits fly or float at (20 + Willpower) yards per turn in the Umbra. Note that 
distances don’t add up smoothly and become less smooth the further from the material 
world one goes. Storytellers have a largely free hand in setting distances to whatever’s 
dramatically interesting. Only in the Penumbra do distances correspond to their 
material equivalents. 
238 


Spirits communicate through feelings and thoughts shared directly between LS 
minds, but the symbols that make up their communication aren’t always easy to 
understand. The Gift of Spirit Speech is necessary to insure mutual comprehension. 
Spirits allied with the Garou can choose to speak their allies’ language, and many other 
spirits also know terrestrial languages. They may or may not choose to use their 
knowledge; persuasion always helps. 
Spiritsofgreatpower, like tribal totems, Incarnae andcelestines, have more than 
enough Traits to deal with whatever challenges characters can present. The Story- 
teller is quite justified in simply declaring ‘‘I win” if a player chooses to force a 
challenge. Mortals win against godlike spirits only when the spirits choose to allow it. 
Charms 
Charms work much like Gifts. Non-combat Charms generally last for one hour 
or for the rest of the scene, and most combat Charms last for one turn. Garou tradition 
says there’s a Gift for every Charm, and spirits do sometimes teach Charmlike Gifts in 
exchange for special services. 
The list here is a starting point. Storytellers can create new Charms to suit the 
needs of their chronicles. Just keep new Charms comparable in power and difficulty 
to the ones given here so that overall balance is maintained. Keep in mind that a single 
Gift can manifest in many different ways. A hedge-spirit’s Blast might be a shower of 
thorns, while an electricity-spirit’s Blast would more likely be a lightning bolt. Be sure 
to describe what characters actually experience rather than just reading off statistics, 
and everyone will have a more enjoyable time. 
Common Charms 
Almost all spirits have these Charms - 
any spirit that lacks one or more is 
unusual and distinctly disadvantaged, perhaps under punishment from its patron. 
Airt Sense: The spirit senses the directions of the spirit world, which are called 
“airts.” This power lets the spirit find and make spirit tracks, and the spirit can make 
a Gnosis Challenge to find a particular person or place in the Umbra. (If this challenge 
fails, make two Simple Tests. If both those fail, the spirit homes in, usually disastrously, 
on something very much unwanted.) 
Materialize: The spirit can take on physical form in the material world if its 
Gnosis total is equal to or greater than the local Gauntlet rating. The spirit appears as 
it does in the Umbra, just solid. Use Gnosis for Social and Mental Challenges, 
Willpower for Physical Challenges. Spirits appear with seven health levels (unless 
they’re much larger or much smaller than human-sized), and a spirit who “dies” in the 
material world returns to the Umbra to enter Slumber. 
Realm Sense: The spirit has an intuitive awareness of what happens in its 
native domain, both in the Umbra and on Earth. It takes a Static Gnosis Challenge 
against the Gauntlet rating to investigate some specific perception. Nature spirits and 
spirits equivalent to those for Umbral realms all have this gift; some free-floating spirits 
or ones created for tasks like messenger duty may well lack it. 
Reform: The spirit can dissolve its form and reassemble itself elsewhere in the 
Umbra. Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits (modified up or down for 
welcoming or hostile target realms). The effort takes one full turn whether or not it 
succeeds. 
Specialty Charms 
These are examples of the range of Charms available to spirits. 
239 


Armor: The spirit spends one Essence Trait to soak half its current Gnosis total 
g 
(round up) in all combat challenges for the rest of the scene. 
Blast: The spirit unleashes its Rage on targets at a distance. Manifestations of 
Blast are almost infinitely varied, from fiery jets to shards of glass. Spend one Essence 
to automatically inflict half its Rage total (round up) in levels of aggravated damage. 
Cleanse the Blight: Like the Rite of Cleansing, this Gift removes spiritual 
corruption. Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against a variable number of Traits 
depending on the depth of the corruption: three Traits for minor taint, up to six Traits 
for reasonably entrenched evils, nine Traits or more for lasting, widespread corruption. 
Most spirits can only use this Charm in limited circumstances, such as only in woods 
or only in summer. 
Control Electrical System: Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against three to 
nine Traits, depending on the target system’s complexity, to gain control over an 
electrical device. Once in charge, the spirit can do anything that the normal operator 
could. 
Create Fire: Make a Static Gnosis Challenge to ignite a fire, with the difficulty 
dependingon the desired size: three Traits for a candle, six Traits for a typical campfire 
or fireplace, up to nine Traits for a serious conflagration. The fire quickly bums out if 
it lacks a regular fuel source. 
Create Wind: Make a Static Gnosis Challenge to make the wind blow, against 
a single Trait for a momentary gust of wind or 10 Traits for a full-blown tornado. 
Flood: Spend one Essence to raise all the waters in the spirit’s vicinity to their 
flood level. Weak spirits can affect water within a few dozen paces while stronger ones 
can command floods everywhere within their line of sight. 
Freeze: Spend one or more Rage Traits. Everyone in the area suffers one level 
of aggravated damage from sudden cold per Rage Trait the spirit spends. Other 
complications of sudden freezing are left to Storyteller’s discussion. Some fire-spirits 
can produce comparable bursts of heat. 
Healing: Make an Extended Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits for 
bashing or lethal damage, or eight Traits for aggravated damage. The spirit can heal 
up to its Gnosis total in health levels. This Charm can help any one target once per 
scene. 
Open Moon Bridge: The spirit can create a moon bridge up to 1000 miles long, 
and there need not be a caern at the destination. 
Peek: The spirit can look at will into the material world from anywhere in the 
Penumbra. Nomadic spirits most often possess this Charm. 
Shapeshift: The spirit can take on any desired form, though not that form’s 
powers. If it tries to imitate a specific individual, observers who know the target can 
make a Mental Challenge to see through the disguise. 
Shatter Glass: Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits to break all 
glass in the vicinity, the extent of damage rising with the spirit’s Rage total. At 
Storyteller discretion the glass may inflict secondary damage. 
Short Out: Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits to make a target 
electrical system short out. This is a less elegant or flexible version of Control Electrical 
System. 
Swift Flight: The spirit flies at triple speed, up to a maximum of 60 + 
(Willpower x 3 )  yards per turn. 
Tracking: Spend one Essence to track prey wherever it goes, for the rest of the 
scene. 
240 


Umbraquake: The spirit makes the Umbra tremble. Evenrone in the area takes [s 
bashing damage equal to half the spirit’s Rage total, rounded up. 
keep it there for one turn per current Gnosis. 
Updraft: Spend one Willpower to lift a human-sized creature in the air and 
Bane Charms 
These are examples of the Charms the Wyrm gives its servants. Most werewolves 
and other servants of Gaia cannot learn these Charms.. . and would be expected to 
refuse even if it were possible. 
Blighted Touch: The spirit touches a target to pass along the Wyrm’s Blight. 
Make a Willpower Challenge. If the spirit wins, the target is dominated by her negative 
characteristics for the rest of the session - 
any Negative Traits are magnified and 
multiplied at least once, and more times at Storyteller discretion. 
Corruption: Make a challenge of the spirit’s Gnosis against the target’s 
Willpower to implant a single evil suggestion that the target will attempt to act on 
before the end of the session. This Gift can work across the Gauntlet. 
Incite Frenzy: Make a challenge of the spirit’s Rage against the target’s 
Willpower to force a Garou into frenzy. Normal frenzy rules apply thereafter. 
Possession: The spirit (usually a Bane) takes control of a living being or 
inanimate object. Make an Extended Static Gnosis Challenge against the target’s 
Willpower. One success allows the possession to happen in six hours; two successes in 
three hours; three successes in one hour; four successes in 15 minutes; five successes 
in five minutes; and six or more successes instantaneously. During this time the spirit 
usually settles in a Blight or other dark and isolated portion of the Umbra to 
concentrate, and it can take no other action. Spirit combat and any other strenuous 
activity breaks the link, forcing the spirit to start over. 
Weaver Charms 
The Weaver grants these Charms to its servants, who can use Airt Sense to 
navigate the Pattern Web. 
Calcify: Make an Extended Challenge of the spirit’s Willpower against the 
target’s Rage. Each success by the spirit removes one of the target’s Physical Traits or 
Essence Traits, binding it into the Pattern Web. A target at zero Essence or Physical 
Traits is immobilized until released by packmates, Wyld energy or something else 
capable of damaging the Web. Traits return once the target is free. 
Solidify Reality: The spirit spins the Pattern Web, reinforcing the Weaver’s 
laws on the Umbra. Make an Extended Willpower Challenge against six Traits. Each 
success adds one health level or Essence Trait to the target. The benefits last for about 
a day, and any given target can only receive the benefits of this Charm once - 
they 
must wear off before any spirit can use Solidify Reality again on that target. Pattern 
Spiders often use this Charm on each other while preparing for combat. 
Spirit Static: The spirit can raise the local Gauntlet rating by one with an act 
of will. Spirits working in conjunction with each other can raise the Gauntlet rating 
by a maximum of three Traits this way. The spirit must stay in the area and concentrate 
on this Charm, suffering a two-Trait penalty in all other challenges while doing so. 
Wyld Charms 
Break Reality: The spirit disrupts a substance’s reality and modifies its Umbral 
form. Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits. One success lets the spirit 
make relatively minor changes such as making a liquid into a gas, making an 
electrically conductive substance nonconducting, or making something normally fire- 
241 
L 


$1- resistant very flammable. Spend an additional Gnosis Trait for more major changes 
like creating a door in a wall, shrinking or growing an object or making an inanimate 
object come alive. If the challenge fails, the spirit loses one Essence and must make two 
Simple Tests. If both fail, the spirit also loses one Gnosis. 
Disorient: The spirit can rearrange landmarks and directions in its vicinity. 
Make a Static Gnosis Challenge against six Traits or the local Gauntlet rating, 
whichever is higher. 
Sample Spirits 
duilbing Spirits 
If none of the following spirits with worked-out statistics suit the needs of a 
Trait Cost 
Power 
1 
1 
Per point of Essence. 
1 
Per Ability trait. 
2 
Per Charm known. 
2 
Storytellers may assign suitable Negative Traits (Mental and Social ones) to help 
chronicle, Storytellers (particularly Spirit Keepers) can make new ones. 
Per two Traits to divide among Willpower, Rage and 
Gnosis. 
Spirit has one Renown Trait among other spirits. 
offset the cost of desired features. 
A Garou pack is something more than just a bunch of Garou who hang out 
together. The rite that binds them together also binds them to a totem spirit who 
oversees their actions, provides inspiration and instruction and keeps them focused on 
their duties. The totem often refers to its pack as its “children” and takes its parental 
responsibilities quite seriously. 
Most totem spirits are Incarnae - 
most of them animal spirits, but the ranks of 
common totems also include mythological beasts, elemental forces and other sorts of 
spirit- who create Jaggling representatives known as “totem avatars” to attend to the 
packs which honor them. Most Incamae have “broods”of lesser spirits who serve them 
in various ways, and a pack on good terms with its totem often gets along better than 
average with the Incarna’s brood. A pack dedicated to Rat, for instance, may find it 
easier to deal with Raccoon-spirits, Trash-spirits and the like, while a pack dedicated 
to Falcon may deal more readily with Bird-spirits of all sorts. Bonuses for related 
challenges are up to Storyteller discretion, based on the pack‘s roleplayed relations. A 
pack on strained terms with its totem, on the other hand, likewise tends to have 
difficulties with its totem’s brood. 
Most totemsfall intooneoffourcategories: Respect, War, Wisdom andcunning. 
The first three are loosely associated with Renown categories. The fourth is less 
popular, though still important. 
The following list of totems isn’t exhaustive. It includes many common totems, 
and provides a basis on which Storytellers can build when making more. Note that 
while some totems are affiliated with tribes, simply being amember of the tribe doesn’t 
make a Garou eligible for the benefits of affiliation. It requires specific packdedication 
242 


to get the bonuses. Tribe members can and do encounter their totemic spirits in the 
Rite of Passage and at other key moments such as learning tribal Gifts, however. 
aackgrouna Cost ana Traits 
Players of characters in a pack pool the total they’ve invested in the Totem 
Background to “buy” the totem spirit. Bonuses and penalties apply immediately unless 
otherwise stated. 
The bonus Traits a totem supplies are renewed each turn, and are available to one 
pack member at a time. The one who currently has the power can choose to hand it 
off to another at any given time. Bonus Traits can make it possible for a Garou to know 
something she otherwise lacks any experience in, as well as enhancing her existing 
abilities. Renown awards are temporary Renown and given once, when the pack is 
accepted by the totem, unless otherwise stated. 
By spending additional experience Traits and roleplaying out the process, a pack 
can learn more Gifts from its totem. As the totem comes to know, trust and respect the 
pack, instruction follows. 
Every totem also imposes restrictions or Bans on its followers. Garou who violate 
the Ban lose all benefits from the totem - 
extra Traits, unlearned Gifts, etc. -until 
they perform aRite of Conwition. Garou who persistently violate the totem’s wishes and 
commands may lose it altogether. 
Totems of Respect 
These spirits embody virtue and honor, and Garou look them for advice in 
leadership and diplomacy. 
Falcon 
Background Cost: 5 Traits 
Falcon is a noble spirit, looking deeply into the Garou heart and rewarding virtue 
and honor where he finds them. He unites the Silver Fangs in a shared vision of 
excellence in duty, and his tribe’s lapses do not reflect poorly on him in most Garou’s 
eyes. 
Traits: Leadership x 3, and also four Willpower Traits per session. Each pack 
member gains two Honor Traits. 
Ban: Dishonor is worse than death, and Falcon’s followers cannot allow them- 
selves to lose permanent Honor. They must put right the wrong if possible, and if not 
perform a Rite ofconwition and then hurl themselves against some powerful minion of 
the Wyrm. A righteous death may remove the stain. 
Granbfathcr Qhunber 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Grandfather Thunder is more feared than respected. His patience and subtlety set 
the example for his Shadow Lord children. He seldom sends one of his own avatars to 
packs that serve him; his Stormcrows usually act on his behalf. 
Traits: Etiquette x 3, and also five Willpower Traits per session. All pack members 
may also invoke Thunder and gain Intimidation x 2. Each pack member gains one 
Honor. Shadow Lords find the pack interesting and watch its progress. 
Ban: Thunder’s Children should not tell the ttuth to anyone except those they 
respect, which in practical terms means anyone they can’t dominate. 
243 


Background Cost: 4 Traits 
Pegasus is concerned with sacred places above all else, and gives its Black Fury 
children gifts to let them move to sacred places in danger and defend them. Pegasus 
will not accept a pack with any Get of Fenris members. 
Traits: Animal Ken x 3, and also three Willpower Traits pet session. Each pack 
member gains two Honor. Black Furies are well-disposed to the pack. 
Ban: Pegasus’ children must aid females of all species, particularly young ones. 
Stag 
Background Cost: 6 Traits 
Great Stag is an ancient spirit embodying masculinity, virility and the wild power 
of nature. He includes both light and dark, dividing the world between the wild and 
the tame, the living and the dead, rather than between good and evil, and his Gifts 
aren’t always comfortable to those with a strong ethical sense. Sometimes his avatar 
appears to guide or aid lost Garou - 
he teaches responsibility to the whole world, 
including humanity, as well as leading the Wild Hunt. 
Traits: Tireless (for long-distance running), Survivalx 3 and also three Willpower 
Traits per session. Each member gains three Honor. Fianna will be well-disposed to the 
pack, and fae spirits and changelings favorably inclined. 
Ban: Children of Stag must always show respect for prey, including the Prayerfor 
the Prey, and must always aid the fae. (This latter Ban is seldom an issue in the modem 
day, but Stag remembers his commitments.) 
Cotems of War 
These are spirits of battle, tactics and Rage. Ancestral warriors and predator 
spirits commonly serve as war totems. Note that while warriors are the chief followers 
of war totems, the calling of war includes scouts, sages, healers and the like as well as 
warriors. War packs earn less respect than some others for their overly focused nature, 
but it’s a time of war and there’s Renown to be won on the battlefield. 
dear 
Background Cost: 5 Traits 
Bear is wise in peace and fierce in war, renowned as a master of healing who also 
knows when to attack. Few Garou favor him as a totem; his true children, the Gurahl 
werebears, do not love the Garou and do not welcome competitors for their father’s 
attention. 
Traits: Medicine x 3. Each member gains Brawny permanently, and may use the 
Gift: Mother’s Touch once per day. Pack members can also hibemate up to three 
months at a time without food or water. 
Garou who serve Bear earn a measure of respect from the Gurahl and tribal 
peoples who worship Bear, but pay for it in losing five Honor each, since other Garou 
generally don’t trust Bear. Further, each future Honor award is one less than it would 
otherwise be. 
Ban: Bear asks nothing of his children beyond their usual duties, knowing they 
are burdened enough. 
244 


Background Cost: 5 Traits 
Hunters fear Boar, and for good reasons. He’s too angry to pass up a fight, too fierce 
to concede defeat and too stubborn to die quietly. Combative young packs of all tribes, 
especially the Get of Fenris and Fianna, choose Boar. 
Traits: Brawl x 2. Each member gains Robust permanently. 
Ban: Children of Boar must never hunt or eat boars. 
Fenris 
Background Cost: 5 Traits 
The all-devouring god of wolves was a totem long before the Norse began to spin 
tales of the Fenrir, but their hymns and stories captured his essence so well that they’ve 
become nearly universal among Fenris’ children. He is powerful, bloodthirsty and 
completely devoted to combat without mercy. He especially favors the Get of Fenris, 
but is willing to accept other packs who reject giving or receiving quarter and who 
frequently blood themselves with the life essence of their foes. 
Traits: Each member can choose one of Ferocious, Quick or Resilient, and receive 
it on a permanent basis. Each member gets two Glory. Get of Fenris respect non-Get 
followers of Fenris more than most members of other tribes, and like to test them by 
inviting them to participate in wild hunts and battles. 
Ban: Fenris’ children must never pass up the opportunity for a worthy fight. 
Griffin 
Background Cost: 4 Traits 
Griffin mourns extinct species, and carries a special rage against the human 
beings responsible for so many extinctions. His Red Talon children share this anger, 
and his Gifts make them better instruments of revenge. Note that to Griffin there’s 
precious little difference between the European land developer who wipes out species 
for housing tracts and the aborigine who kills species with slash-and-burn agriculture 
or over-hunting, no matter how much the targeted humans might try to make 
distinctions. 
Traits: Akrmess x 3. In addition, pack members can communicate with birds of 
prey without requiring a Gift. Each pack member gains two Glory. Red Talons respect 
Griffin’s followers. 
Ban: Griffin’s children may not associate with humans. Griffin almost never 
accepts homid Garou as his children. 
q a t  
Background Cost: 5 Traits 
Rat is fast and quiet, the master of hit-and-run warfare and the neutralization of 
the enemy’s strength. He fights to weaken, then destroy. 
Traits: Five Willpower Traits per session. All pack members get a one-Trait 
bonus on biting and stealth challenges. Bone Gnawers respect Rats children and aid 
them when it’s not life-threatening, and Ratkin are more tolerant or at least less 
intolerant of Rat-serving packs than they are of most Garou. 
Ban: Rat’s children must never kill vermin. 
24s 


Wenbigo 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Wendigo descends from the north, wrapped in ice and roaring like the wind. He 
teaches his children the relentless fury of the storm and the power that comes in the 
utter frozen desolation of passion. 
Trait: Each pack member gains five Rage Traits per story, regardless of Rage 
rating. Each pack member also gains two Glory. The Wendigo tribe respect non-tribe 
members who serve Wendigo, though the tribe remains distrustful until the outsiders 
prove themselves worthy. 
Ban: Wendigo’s children must always aid native peoples in need. 
Totems of Wisbom 
These spirits keep the secrets for time of need. Garou ally with them to learn how 
to uncover hidden truths and rare Gifts. Straightforward Garou regard Wisdom totems 
suspiciously, while Garou with a more nuanced view understand that the search for the 
unknown must accompany the destruction of known enemies. 
Chimera 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Chimera is an enigma. She ofMany Faces is the master example for the Stargazers 
tribe, who earn her special favor for their willingness to pierce through layers of illusion 
and confusion to find inner wisdom. 
Traits: Enigmas x 3, and Chimera’s children gain the Mental Trait Insightful 
permanently. Each pack member can disguise himself or something else while in the 
Umbra by making a Static Gnosis Challenge against seven Traits. Each pack member 
gets a two-Trait bonus to challenges involving riddles, dream interpretations and 
other applications of Enigma. Each pack member also gains two Wisdom. Stargazers 
notice the affiliation, but seldom let it sway their judgment. 
Ban: Chimera requires only that her children must seek enlightenment. 
Cockroach 
Background Cost: 6 Traits 
Cockroach is perhaps the definitive totem of the modern age. (Glass Walkers say 
there’s no “perhaps” about it.) It is hardy, quick and persistent, and its kin are 
everywhere in the city. 
Traits: Each packmate gains a two-Trait bonus on challenges involving comput- 
ers, electricity and science, and a three- Trait bonus on challenges to activate Gifts 
affecting technology. Pack members can also make a Static Gnosis Challenge against 
the local Gauntlet rating to enter the Umbra and view data stored in digital media or 
being transmitted electronically. 
Ban: Cockroach’s children must take pains not to kill cockroaches. 
Owl 
Background Cost: 6 Traits 
Owl watches and strikes silently. He holds hidden wisdom, and inspires his 
favored children, the Silent Striders, to do the same. He flies with death even into the 
246 


Dark Umbra; the widespread belief that owls are spirits of the vengeful dead aren’t 
completely baseless. 
Traits: Each pack member gains wings in the Umbra, and a two-Trait bonus to 
challenges involving stealth, silence and quiet and a three-Trait bonus on challenges 
to use Gifts involving air, travel, movement or darkness. Each pack member gains two 
Wisdom. Silent Striders may mysteriously appear to aid an Owl pack in danger; Ratkin 
and other followers of Rat are particularly hostile to Owl. 
Ban: Owl requires that the pack leave small rodents in the wood for him and his 
children. 
Raven 
Background Cost: 5 Traits 
Raven is one of the cleverest birds, playful and cunning. He feeds without 
hunting, letting others kill for him and feeding on what they leave behind. He’s 
companion to the wolf, summoning wolves to dead prey in winter and watching for 
trouble in summer, teaching wisdom all year round. Raven is also a totem of wealth, 
accumulated through skill and trickery alike; he makes sure the wolves want for 
nothing, even though perpetual hunger gnaws within him. 
Traits: Survival x 3, Subterfuge and Enigmas. Each pack member gains one 
Wisdom. The Corax wereravens are more sympathetic to Raven’s Garou followers 
than to most werewolves. 
Ban: Raven’s children must carry no wealth, trusting him to provide for them. 
Uktena 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Uktena is an ancient water spirit with the features of a serpent, a cougar and a 
deer. He inhabits river beds and dark places, where he seeks out secrets. 
Traits: Pack members gain one automatic soak level against all damage while in 
the Umbra. Each pack member gets one experience point per story (not per individual 
session) to spend exclusively on Enigmas, Occult, Rituals, Gifts and other mystical 
knowledge. Each pack member gains two Wisdom. 
Many Garou distrust Uktena and its mysterious nature; pack members suffer a 
one-Trait penalty on Social Challenges with werewolves of tribes other than Uktena 
and Wendigo. Uktena tribe members usually regard Uktena packs as long-lost 
relatives. 
Ban: Uktena’s children must try to recover mystical lore, objects, places and 
animals from the Wyrm’s minions. 
Unicorn 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Unicorn is a wise spirit of peace, purity, healing and harmony. She leads her 
favored tribe, theChildrenofGaia, toward the all-encompassinglove of Gaia.. . while 
recognizing that it comes only at great cost. 
Traits: Three-Trait bonus to challenges involving Gifts of healing, strength and 
protection. Pack members move at twice normal speed in the Umbra, and get a two- 
Trait bonus to challenges involving healing and empathy. They also suffer a two-Trait 
penalty on challenges to harm other Garou not of the Wyrm (and Unicorn isn’t easily 
fooled about such things, nor inclined to accept carelessness or ignorance as excuses). 
247 


yr-- 
Each packmate gains three Wisdom. Children of Gaia always aid and usually side with 
the pack in disputes. 
Ban: Unicorn’s children must aid and protect the weak and exploited, except 
when doing so would aid the Wyrm (and Unicorn isn’t easily fooled about this, either). 
Totems of Cunning 
Few Garou place much value on trickery and stealth, so these totems are 
relatively rare and not well-respected. In modem times, however, more young Garou 
find them good ways to avoid the pitfalls of tradition and respond to modem threats. 
Coyote 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Coyote is the ultimate trickster, the perfect outlaw, the transgressor who makes 
Ragabash seem hidebound and conventional. He is unpredictable, lusty, sometimes 
even foolish. He’s also a clever warrior as well as a master of deception. 
Traits: Stealth x 2, Streetwise, Subterfuge, Survival. Coyote can find his pack 
wherever they are; this doesn’t cost extra Background Traits. 
Coyote isn’t as wise as he is cunning. Pack members lose one from each reward 
of Wisdom, and they’re likely to get blamed for anything that goes wrong anywhere 
nearby. 
Ban: Coyote wouldn’t think of limiting his children. 
Pox 
Background Cost: 7 Traits 
Fox confounds prey and enemy alike, luring the weak into danger and the strong 
into confusion. He loves to trick opponents into trusting him, then snaring them in 
traps, particularly if the experience can teach the foe a lesson. 
Few Garou trust Fox or his children, and pack members lose one Trait from each 
grant of temporary Honor. 
Traits: Subterfuge x 2, Stealth x 2, Streetwise. Each pack member also gets 
Persuasive permanently. 
Ban: Fox requires only that his children not participate in fox hunts and help 
foxes being hunted. 
Cuckoo 
Background Cost: 6 Traits 
The cuckoo lays her eggs in other birds’ nest, and her chicks push out the other 
squabs and are raised by the unwitting foster parents. The children of Cuckoo are 
likewise master infiltrators, capable of moving into the deepest recesses and secret 
strongholds of the Wyrm without being challenged. They are spies and manipulators, 
earning prize fetishes and other rewards for their demonstrated accomplishments.. . 
and earning the ire and envy of Garou who favor more conventional means. 
Traits: Ingratiating, Subterfuge x 2. The chosen pack member can also make a 
Static Social Challenge against six Traits (or more in the absence of protective 
camouflage and the like) to blend in with the scene. If this challenge succeeds, anyone 
who notices her must win a Mental Challenge to pierce her camouflage. Most people 
in the area see her as “one of us,” in some convenient and undemanding way, unless 
248 


she does something drastic to call attention to herself. That reauires a second Mental @ 
I 
Challenge. 
lose two Traits from any grant of temporary Honor. 
offers. 
Garou who know of the pack's affiliation are wary around it, and pack members 
Ban: Cuckoo requires its children to be opportunistic, exploiting what fortune 
Creating ana Wobifying cotems 
Players of the members of a pack can choose to buy additional abilities for their 
pack's totem. These purchases cost double if made after the consecrating rite as spirits 
don't easily change their natures or abilities. 
Trait Cost 
Power 
1 
1 
2 
Totem can speak with all pack members. 
Totem can find all pack members. 
Totem is nearly always with a pack member. 
4 
Totem is with each pack member and enables them to communi 
cate mentally. 
5. 
5 
Totem can materialize when needed without cost. 
Totem is feared by agents of the Wyrm. 
Uaturae 
Garou encounter more nature-spirits, or naturae, than any other inhabitants of 
the Umbra. The ranks of the naturae include the spirits ofdead animals not yet reborn 
and spirits generated from the belief in and significance of a place or thing. Long ago, 
living spirits filled the Umbra, rising from every stream, tree, stone - 
every single 
thing, in fact. Now much of the Umbra is barren, with few spirits remaining and most 
of those in long Slumber. 
All naturae possess the Charms of Airt Sense and Reform in addition to those 
listed, unless the Storytellers have some specific reason for those Charms to be missing. 
Animal Spirits 
Most animal spirits look like idealized versions of the spirits they represent: 
healthy, bright, vibrant, filled with passion and strength. This list is only the 
beginning, providing Storytellers with the basis for working up statistics for spirits of 
other living or even extinct species. 
Many animal spirits can teach Gifts to Garou, and in any event it's wise to appease 
them after hunting their kind for food. Garou believe in a totem Incarna for animal 
spirits; Wendigo and Lupus call them the Animal Fathers, and say that the Animal 
Fathers watch their children from lodges in the Near Umbra. Sufficient disrespect 
would anger the Animal Fathers, and perhaps even lead to a halt (temporary or 
permanent) in births of animals of that species. 
Sample animal Gafflings include: 
Deer 
Willpower 4, Rage 4, Gnosis 6, Essence 14 
Charms: No special Charms 
Falcon 
Willpower 10, Rage 6, Gnosis 5 ,  Essence 21 
249 


Charms: Swift Flight 
Snake 
Willpower 5, Rage 6, Gnosis 8, Essence 19 
Charms: Paralyzing Stare (as the Shadow Lord Gift, p. 144) 
(;lube Chilbren 
Garou call the spirits of trees Glade Children. In the Umbra these spirits appear 
as robed, luminescent figures within trees, usually with kindly expressions. The tree’s 
location in the physical world affects the Glade Child’s manifestation in the Umbra: 
majestic and glorious in deep wilderness, grimy and wan in the midst of a polluted city 
and so on. Most Glade Children are Gafflings or Jagglings, though some of the eldest 
may be Incarnae. 
Glade Children willingly share their knowledge of what they’ve seen when 
approached by friendly Garou. As blight and Pattern Webs take their toll, however, 
the Glade Children’s information becomes more twisted and less reliable. 
Willpower 7, Rage 3, Gnosis 8, Essence variable (20 for a sapling, 35 for a mature 
oak, 50+ for an ancient redwood) 
Charms: Cleanse the Blight, Domain Sense 
Lunes 
These are the most common of Luna’s Jagglings, appearing as shimmering ribbons 
of light outlined in blue or gold. They communicate empathically, with more vivid 
spirals and undulations indicating strong emotion or excitement. Their power, and 
their instability, rises and falls with the phase of the moon. Lunes can open any Moon 
Bridge at will and create new ones for petitioning Garou. Most of the time they react 
generally favorably to Garou as long as the visitors pay proper respect, but during the 
full moon, all bets are off. 
Willpower 8, Rage 4 (8 during full moon), Gnosis 7, Essence 19-23 
Charms: Open Moon Bridge 
Storm cr 010 s 
Stormcrows are the best-known spirit servants of Grandfather Thunder and act 
as his eyes and ears. They are always connected to him, and often serve as pack totem 
avatars for Thunder. 
Willpower 9, Rage 7, Gnosis 6, Essence 22 
Charms: Create Wind, Tracking 
T h e  Wenbigo 
When Wendigo manifests in his avatar form, he arrives as a blue humanoid 
figured with huge claws and fangs, fiery eyes and black hooflike stumps for feet. On 
missions of vengeance, he can run through the sky at up to 50 mph. When he kills his 
target, he devours its heart; if somehow thwarted, he’ll kill his summoner and eat that 
heart instead. The Wendigo Gift: Call the Cannibal Spirit brings this spirit to bear. 
Willpower 7, Rage 10, Gnosis 5, Essence 32 
Charms: Blast (ice), Create Wind, Freeze, Materialize, Tracking 
2so 


T h e  W i l b  Hunt 
The Wild Hunt personifies fury. It acts as Stag’s instrument of vengeance, a 
terrible weapon not to be used lightly. The Huntsman and his pack aren’t specific 
entities, but conceptual forces that take on form for a specific hunt and then return to 
their realm of idea and possibility. 
The Huntsman: A powerful Jaggling servant of Stag, a tall, stag-antlered man 
following his hounds. 
Willpower 10, Rage 10, Gnosis 5, Essence 40 
Charms: Amur, Materialize, Tracking 
The Hounds: Gaffling servants of the Huntsman, usually nine in number 
(more if necessary), with black coats and cold green fiery eyes. They can outpace a 
Garou in Lupus form and never tire. 
Willpower 6, Rage 7, Gnosis 2, Essence 18 
Charms: Materialize, Tracking 
Ancestor -S 
p i  r it s 
Death doesn’t end the duties Gaia gives to the Garou. The spirits of dead Garou 
watch their descendants from the Umbra, giving aid and instruction as they may. Most 
ancestor-spirits reside in the Umbral homeland of their tribe. Some dwell near caems 
or in fetishes. Garou with the Past Life Background can call upon their ancestors for 
a form of temporary possession. In addition to Garou ancestor-spirits, the Umbra holds 
some human spirits, particularly those of Kinfolk, though these are almost always 
weaker. Ancestor-spirits vary widely in their abilities. This is representative, but 
should be modified to suit the needs of a chronicle: 
Willpower 6, Rage 8, Gnosis 7, Essence 21 
Charms: Charms relating to their tribal, auspice and breed Gifts. 
&lementals 
These spirits manifest the raw elements which make up all things, just as their 
names suggest. For a long time, the Garou Nation classified all elementals as earth, air, 
fire or water. (The Beast Courts and other communities used other categories, and the 
Garou Nation seldom noticed or cared.) In more recent times, the categories have 
multiplied to include glass, plastic, metal, electricity and the like. Elementals also vary 
widely in power, from minor Gafflings to near-Incama levels. The following are 
relatively weak ones: 
Larth &lementals 
These spirits usually appear as vaguely human-shaped collections of rocks or 
Willpower 10, Rage 4, Gnosis 5, Essence 30 
Charms: Armor, Materialize, Umbraquake 
simply as moving bulges within the ground. 
Air &lementals 
These spirits are usually invisible except when moving through dust, smoke and 
Willpower 3, Rage 8, Gnosis 7, Essence 18 
, 
other airborne contaminants, and indirectly by breezes and the like. 
251 


I 
Charms: Create Wind, Updraft 
Fire tlementals 
These spirits usually manifest as swirling columns of flame. 
Willower 5, Rage 10, Gnosis 5, Essence 20 
Charms: Blast (flame), Create Fire 
W a t e r  Llementals 
These spirits are generally visible only as a viscous thickening in a body of water, 
Willpower 6, Rage 4, Gnosis 10, Essence 20 
Charms: Cleanse the Blight, Flood, Healing 
though they can draw up into humanlike forms. 
Glass Llementals 
Most of these spirits appear as humanoid mounds of glass shards. 
Willpower 4, Rage 7, Gnosis 7, Essence 18 
Charms: Blast (glass shards), Materialize, Shatter Glass 
Llectricity Llementals 
These spirits can appear in any form of electrical discharge: arcs, St. Elmo’s Fire, 
Willpower 6, Rage 7, Gnosis 5, Essence 18 
Charms: Blast (lightning), Control Electrical System, Short Out 
ball lightning and so on. 
&nipnutic Spirits 
Some spirits lack any obvious association to something discrete and tangible, 
either in the material world or across the Gauntlet. Without that frame of reference, 
free spirits can be very difficult to comprehend. It takes care and effort to come away 
with an encounter with such a spirit bearing useful wisdom, but the potential rewards 
are great. 
Chimer lings 
These are Jagglings of the totem spirit Chimera. They are enigmas given form, 
free to choose shapes as suitable for whim and assignment. They appear to Garou at 
the climax of dreamquests and haunt the dreams of Garou to teach Gifts and pass along 
cryptic messages. 
Willpower 3, Rage 5, Gnosis 10, Essence 18 
Charms: Shapeshift 
&nglings 
These are Jagglings of Gaia. As spirits of Gnosis, Englings are the targets of ritual 
hunts during moots. If the Garou capture Englings, the hunters give thanks for the 
spirits’ gifts and then drain the Gnosis to reinfuse the participants. The Englings 
sacrificed reform elsewhere in the Umbra. 
Willpower 5, Rage 1, Gnosis 10, Essence 16 
Charms: No special Charms. 
252 


Curiosi 
These Gafflings appear as nested spheres with elaborate filigree work, hovering 
just above the ground. Stargazers of all auspices and Theurges of all tribes spend hours 
contemplating Curiosi to search out the patterns within the spirits’ swirling motions. 
A Static Mental Challenge (retest with Enigmas) against nine Traits lets the Garou 
solve a particular Curiosus’ puzzle, gaining one Gnosis and one Willpower Trait. Long- 
time observers of Curiosi gradually realize that the spirits are studying them just as 
intently as they study the spirits. 
Willpower 5 ,  Rage 3, Gnosis 9, Essence 17 
Charms: Illuminate (lights a 50-foot area or changes the color of local illumina- 
tion) 
&pip hlings 
Each Epiphling embodies a concept, such as Peace, Envy, Speed or Death. Garou 
don’t really understand how Epiphlings fit into the spiritual hierarchy, and theories 
abound among scholars of Umbral affairs. Epiphlings often manifest as Gafflings, and 
Storytellers can use Gaffling Traits for Epiphlings encountered in play. 
Spirit -@e Id t e b A r t i f  act s 
9et i s  he 5 
Garou can bind spirits into suitable containers, called fetishes. The owner of a 
fetish can invoke the spirit within to perform a specific task. Given the near-infinite 
diversity ofspirits, afetish can allow almost any spirit-related feat, if the fetish‘s creator 
has the power to command the necessary spirit. Fetishes are marks ofhonor among the 
Garou, and treating them carelessly or abusively costs Renown. Sensible Garou 
remember that the ancient Pact allows them to create fetishes and that spirits could 
change the Pact if enough Garou showed signs of dishonoring it. 
Garou make most fetishes out of natural materials such as wood and clay, 
decorating them in ways suitable to the spirit’s nature and the fetish’s intended task. 
Modem-minded Garou, particularly Glass Walkers, use technological materials as 
well. Most fetishes are portable, and a fair number, such as klaives, are also weapons. 
See the Rite of the Fetish (p. 158) for the process of creating fetishes, which requires a 
willing or subdued spirit. Note that spirits forced into fetishes against their will are 
often capable of inflicting minor curses and misfortunes on the fetish‘s owner-Garou 
avoid compulsion where possible for pragmatic as well as traditional reasons. 
To use a fetish, a character must first attune to it, by making a challenge of the 
Garou’s Gnosis against the fetish‘s Gnosis rating. If the challenge fails, something just 
doesn’t “click,” and the character cannot use that fetish or even try attuning to it again 
until making some effort to reach accord with the spirit. The details of this effort are 
up to Storytellers and can involve anything from recitation of a favorite story to some 
important quest. Attunement dedicates the fetish to its new owner as if the Rite of 
Talisman Dedication (p.157) had been performed on it, but fetishes do not count 
against the total of objects any one character can have dedicated at the same time. 
Make a Gnosis Challenge against the fetish‘s rating to use one of the fetish‘s 
powers, or spend one Gnosis to force it active. This latter often annoys the spirit unless 
there’s some pressing justification. 
253 


The following fetishes are ranked in five levels, corresponding to levels of the 
Fetish Background. Use this list as guidelines for creating more, along with the Rites 
information on p. 150. Fetishes are rare and should be cherished. 
Level One 
Apeskin: Gnosis 6 
This fetish is ascrape of ape (or human) skin tattooed withsuitable glyphs. When 
activated, it makes a metis or lupus Garou’s Homid form identical to that of a homid 
Garou: no special damage from silver, but no regeneration. A homid ancestor-spirit 
must be bound into this fetish. 
Harmony Flute: Gnosis 5 
This flute is carved from hickory and decorated with songbird feathers. When 
activated and played (with a successful Performance challenge), the flute gives forth a 
harmonious melody invoking memories of life before the Severing. Aggressive 
creatures must make a Rage Challenge or cease fighting; aggressors without Rage 
succumb automatically. (All creatures can still defend themselves if attacked.) Once 
the music stops, preexisting imperatives take over again. A peace-, calm-, water- or 
bird-spirit must be bound into this fetish. 
Level T w o  
Spirit Tracer: Gnosis 5 
This fetish is a human hair suspended in an iron ingot. When the fetish‘s owner 
activates it and concentrates on a specific spirit, the ingot pulls in the target’s 
direction. A hunting- or predator-spirit, or one with the Charm: Tracking, must be 
bound into the ingot. 
Level 3 
Baneskin: Gnosis 7 
This is a piece of Bane spirit wrapped in cloth and worn as an amulet. When 
activated, it makes all malevolent spirits in the area respond to the wearer as ifhe were 
one of them. If the wearer takes hostile action against his “fellow” Banes, the disguise 
collapses, and in any event a Baneskin cannot fool Incarnae or more powerful spirits. 
Fang Dagger: Gnosis 6 
This knife is always carved from the tooth or tusk of a great beast. It can be 
activated after its wielder successfully strikes at an opponent. If the activation works, 
the spirit in the Fang Dagger bites deeper, doubling the levels of damage inflicted and 
making the damage aggravated. The Fang Dagger requires a war-, pain-, death- or 
snake-spirit bound into the blade. 
Phoebe’s Veil: Gnosis 7 
This is a small, gold pendant in a half-moon shape, usually worn around the neck 
at the end of a leather thong. When activated at night, the pendant makes the wearer 
vanish completely for one minute, plus another minute per Mental Trait spent. All 
senses, mundane and spiritual, fail to detect the wearer, except for touch. An illusion- 
, shadow-, Lune- or chameleon-spirit must be bound within the pendant. 
Sanctuary Chimes: Gnosis 6 
This is a miniature tubular bell. When activated, no spirit may materialize within 
100 feet of its user unless invited to do so. Garou use this fetish to protect caerns and 
254 
c
i


the homes ofpregnant Kinfolk, among other duties. A protection-, guardian- or turtle- e 
spirit must be bound into the bell. 
Level 4 
Monkey Puzzle: Gnosis 6 
This is a piece of amber containing a single human hair. When activated, the 
fetish makes any human seeing the Garou view her as a normal person, regardless of 
her current form. Note that it doesn’t mask her actions, just her appearance. A ghost- 
, illusion- or trickster spirit must be bound within the amber. 
Spirit Whistle: Gnosis 8 
This is an ivory whistle. When blown into and activated, it emits a wailingscream 
which inflicts immense pain on all spirits in the wielder’s line of sight. Each spirit must 
win a Static Gnosis Challenge against the wielder’s Gnosis total or flee. Note that the 
whistle is directional, and doesn’t affect spirits behind the wielder. A madness-, 
discord- or screech owl-spirit must be bound within the whistle. 
Klaioes anb Other 9etish Weapons 
Klaive: Level 4, Gnosis 6 
This is the signature weapon of the Garou, a special style of dagger made for use 
in any form from Homid to Crinos. Klaives are rare and precious artifacts, not the least 
because each one has a pure silver blade and therefore subtracts one Gnosis Trait from 
its wielder’s current total. Not all klaives have spirits bound into them. A klaive 
without a spirit in the blade doesn’t have to be attuned, but without the spirit it only 
inflicts lethal damage on targets without a special vulnerability to silver. The spirit 
allows the blade to do aggravated damage to all targets. 
Pulling a klaive on a fellow werewolf generally indicates that the wielder desires 
a duel to the death. In successful times, klaive duels are rare; at the moment they’re 
rising in frequency as the tensions of the Final Day grow. Tradition-minded Garou 
mourn the proliferation of klaives and their use for mundane tasks, while modem- 
minded Garou complain about elders’ concealment of useful tools in times of need. 
A klaive gives three bonus traits in combat and inflicts an extra level of 
aggravated damage. Because it’s silver, werewolves cannot soak this damage. 
Grand Klaive: Level 5, Gnosis 7 
This is the greatest personal weapon of the Garou, a “knife” as large as a sword. 
Its wielder loses two Traits from his current Gnosis total because of the silver blade. 
A war-spirit is usually bound into the grand klaive, allowing it to inflict aggravated 
damage on non-Garou foe. A grand klaive without the spirit isn’t a fetish, just a silver 
weapon. 
Grand klaives are rare, precious items, and usually tied to Garou lineages. The 
Silver Fangs, Fianna and Shadow Lords make particular effort to keep grand klaives 
within their creators’ lineages, and no tribe or sept willingly loses one to outsiders. 
A second spirit is often bound into the blade along with the war-spirit. The 
resulting powers depend on the spirit in question; common choices include a fire-spirit 
which reduces damage from fire when activated and an ancestor-spirit which provides 
extra levels of Abilities like Occult or Survival. 
A grand klaive gives five bonus Traits in combat, and inflicts an extra level of 
aggravated damage. Because it’s silver, werewolves cannot soak this damage. 
255 


Grand klaives attract notice from Garou and spirits alike. Young Garou without 
uey good reasons for carrying one face condemnation (and loss of Renown) from 
elders and the jealous attention of peers who’d like to take it for themselves. 
Other Fetish Weapons: Many tribes have their own traditional weapons in 
addition to the klaive: the Black Furies’ labrys or double-headed axe (which may howl 
when striking male opponents), the Wendigos’ fetish spear with bound arctic- or 
storm-spirits, the Fiannas’ great axe, the Glass Walkers’high-tech weaponry, the Bone 
Gnawers’ concealed blades. Storytellers should play up differences in description, but 
in terms of game mechanics, all of these work the same as klaives. 
Calens 
Talens are simpler versions of fetishes. They don’t require attunement, but can 
only be used once. After a successful Gnosis Challenge activates the spirit within a 
talen, the spirit returns to the Umbra. Anyone with Gnosis can use a talen; the Rite 
of Binding (p. 156) creates them. Werewolves consider binding spirits into talens as 
less morally complicated or offensive than creating fetishes, because talen residence 
always ends when the item is used. 
Success on the Rite OfBindingcreates a talen with Gnosis equal to that of the spirit 
bound inside. Each Gnosis Trait the creator spends lets her make another talen of the 
same sort: Two Mental Traits on top of the requirements for the rite let her make three 
Bane Arrows, for instance. Powerful spirits who choose to cooperate with talen 
creation can divide their essence among several talens, so that just the basic success 
produces more than one talen. A spirit with 15 Gnosis, for instance, could inhabit 
three talens with five Gnosis each. 
Storytellers should use the following list as a starting point and guideline for 
overall power level. Keep in mind that talens shouldn’t be as powerful as the equivalent 
fetish. 
Bane Arrows: Gnosis 4 
These obsidian-headed arrows home in on Banes, visible or otherwise. They 
automatically hit Bane targets and inflict a level of aggravated damage. The resulting 
pain always makes the Bane cry out, which spoils most forms ofdisguise. Wyrm-spirits 
can sense Bane Arrows and often choose to strike first. A war-, air- or pain-spirit must 
be bound into the arrow. 
Death Dust: Gnosis 6 
This is a small jar containing a handful of dust. When activated and sprinkled on 
the body of a creature which died within the last day, it allows the wielder to 
communicate with the corpse’s spirit. The Silent Striders sometimes give talens of this 
sort to their cubs to help the pursuit of knowledge. A death-, communication- or 
divination-spirit must be bound within the jar. 
Moon Glow: Gnosis 8 
This is a crystal holding a single moonbeam. The wielder make activate this talen 
upon entering the Umbra. As long as she continues to carry it, her journey will be a 
safe one. The crystal shatters as she reaches her destination. This talen wards off 
incidental dangers and subdues Lunes in the full moon, but can’t repel powerful and 
hostile hunting spirits. A Lune must be bound into the crystal. 
Moon Sign: Gnosis 5 
This is a small wax seal inscribed with the sign for the full moon. When the 
wielder activates and throws it before a werewolf, the target must make a Static 
256 


Willpower Challenge against seven Traits or automatically change into Lupus form. 
This works on Black Spiral Dancers and even on other changing breeds, forcing them 
into their respective animal forms. A Lune, change-, wolf- or Wyld-spirit must be 
bound into the seal. 
Nightshade: Gnosis 5 
This is a single fluid ounce of a liquid mystically distilled out of the night. When 
activated and drunk, it turns the imbiber’s body into shadow, virtually invisible in 
darkness. Only a watcher actively searching for the user can find her, and even then 
the user gets a two-Trait bonus on stealth-related challenges. The shadow form wears 
off in an hour. (Weaker forms, at Gnosis 4, last only until the change of the next hour). 
A night- or darkness-spirit must be bound into the vial holding the liquid. 
Wyrm Scale: Gnosis 8 
This is a sigil inscribed on some durable substance, preferably an actual scale from 
a Wyrm-beast. When activated, it forces servants of the Wyrm within the immediate 
area (20 feet or so) to revert to their true forms. The sigil then erupts into a green fire 
which completely consumes it. A Wyrm-spirit must be bound into the sigil. 


What’s a roleplaying game without friends and foes? There’s nothing to spur you 
on to greaterheights ofheroism, orgreaterdepths ofdepravity, than the loveofa friend 
or the hatred of an enemy. Here you may find details on those the Garou number 
among their allies and their many enemies. 
Kinfolk: C h e  G e s  Chat 6 i n b  
At the basest level, Kinfolk are exactly what they sound like - 
wolf or human 
relatives of werewolves who bear the blood of Garou in their veins. They probably have 
relatives who bred true as Garou and may have sired children who bred true. True 
Kinfolk are immune to the Delirium; they may fear the werewolf they see, but no Veil 
washes over their memories. They are not werewolves, though. They cannot shift form 
nor can they endure the punishing damage that is part of daily Garou life. Except for 
their large, hairy relatives, Kinfolk are otherwise normal specimens of humans or 
wolves. 
Kinfolk outnumber Garou 10 to 1. A mating between Kinfolk and Garou is far 
more likely to produce a Garou than a mating with a normal human or wolf. Once out 
of 100 times, a Kinfolk mating may produce a true werewolf offspring. Many Kinfolk 
grow up never knowing of their heritage, but of those who do, they are encouraged (to 
the point of force, occasionally) to breed with a Garou instead of mating with a normal 
human or wolf, or even another Kinfolk. 
Kinfolk may act as allies, spying where Garou would have trouble going, using 
their jobs to earn money for use in Gaia’s service, supporting the Garou in their cause. 
Some of them act with knowledge of the great tradition they uphold. Others remain 
ignorant, wondering why it is their relatives disappear into the night at odd times and 
come back with bullet holes in their clothes. 
Kinfolk hold many positions within Garou society, but they almost always end up 
second-class citizens. They have a greater chance of bearing true Garou children, but 
that cannot compare to the blessing of being one of Gaia’s chosen warriors. Their role 
as go-betweens when Garou have trouble dealing with normal human society is 
invaluable, but not as invaluable as the tradition and history that true Garou uphold, 
260 


or so the Garou believe. Sometimes the Garou use their Kinfolk as mere breeding 
stock, cannon fodder or pawns in elaborate plans. Many Kinfolk, having been taught 
from birth that this is their place in things, accept such treatment as a necessary evil. 
Some Garou may truly love their Kinfolk families and be willing to die for them, but 
in practice, Kinfolk are far more likely to pay the ultimate sacrifice for their Garou 
relatives. Very few Garou ever see their non-werewolf Kin as equals. 
Many Kinfolk take the abuse their relatives dole out simply to feel close to the 
tradition they were raised in. The desire to be a part of something much greater than 
one’s small self draws millions of people to organized religion, and Kinfolk are no 
different. Others stay with the Garou because this is their family, and one cannot deny 
the powerful ties of family, whether by blood or adoption. Kinfolk will (and do) fight 
and die to protect their beloved siblings, parents or children. Others endure their 
treatment for the occasional benefits - 
when you can tell your sister that some guy 
has been harrassing you at work, knowing she’s likely to go tear his throat out, you have 
a hell of a weapon to aim. 
Not every Kinfolk willingly endures what his hairy cousins dish out. Some 
become resentful of the way the Garou treat them and turn against their heritage. The 
Wyrm delights in targeting these vulnerable creatures and using them against their 
own families; even the Black Spiral Dancers must have Kin. It seems hardly surprising 
that after years of condescension and belittlement, even outright abuse, such people 
would turn against their “betters.” Many Garou, however, continue to be surprised 
when a family member betrays them, and are likely to deny their own part in creating 
the monster. 
Kinfolk Creation 
In general, Kinfolk characters follow the same rules for creation as Garou 
Instead of Gifts, a Kinfolk character receives nine points that she can spend in 
Basic homid Gift that does not require Gnosis or Rage to activate: 3 Traits. 
Basic Rite that does not require Gnosis or Rage to activate: 3 Traits. 
Numina: varies. 
Merits and Flaws: varies. 
Kinfolk do not receive Rage, Gnosis or any shape.changing abilities. Certain 
Backgrounds, Merits and Flaws will be obviously inappropriate for Kinfolk characters. 
Kinfolk come from all walks of life, particularly if they grew up not knowing of 
their heritage. Some typical fields for those Kinfolk who want to help include 
medicine, forestry, veterinary medicine, conservation or local government. A Kinfolk 
in law enforcement can help his sept by bailing out members who got in trouble with 
the police while a Kinfolk at a university can do research. 
characters. Certain exceptions exist, however: 
the following ways: 
Kinfolk of the Other Shifting areeds 
The other Changing Breeds also have Kinfolk. Under each of those other breeds 
the presence of Kinfolk will be addressed. Use the Garou Kinfolk character creation 
rules for Kinfolk of other breeds as well. Use common sense to determine which 
Backgrounds, Merits, Flaws, etc. should be different. 
For more information on Kinfolk, see Kinfolk: Unsung Heroes. 
261 


Vumpires: d o o a  of Ages 
’ 1  
Garou call vampires “Leeches,” and with good reason. More than simply siphoning 
off mortal blood, vampires also leech off of mortal society. They are parasites, taking 
whatever suits them and giving little back. They are the dead that refuse to be dead, and 
thus they defy Gaia’s natural order of things. As corruptors and destroyers, most bear the 
stink of Wyrm-taint, although some are unaware of their taint. 
Vampires and Garou find themselves in the position of natural enemies more 
often than not. Vampires encourage overcrowding and the spread of cities as they have 
an easier time feeding without being noticed in such places. The low population and 
simplicity of the rural areas Garou so love makes existence very difficult for vampires. 
The power games of vampires often cause problems for the political maneuvers of 
Garou who involve themselves in such things. 
Imagine for a moment eternal life. Not the romanticized version of eternal life, 
but the reality of needing to find something to keep you occupied every night for 
centuries, maybe longer. This is only part of why vampires traditionally engage in 
intricate games, manipulating friend and foe alike in an effort to keep themselves 
entertained over the decades. Most vampires have at least one or two schemes up their 
sleeves, some of which span decades or even centuries. When a vampire is bored, he’ll 
play with anything that comes into reach, and there’s bragging rights that come with 
being able to claim a Garou as a pawn. Little can equal the desolation of a Garou who 
discovers that all her work has merely been the fulfillment of some Leech‘s grandiose 
Most vampires know very little about Garou society, if anything. They may have 
heard the name of Gaia, but have no idea regarding its significance. They don’t know 
about auspices, tribes, Gifts or Rites, although they may have heard rumors of 
werewolves performing bloody rituals beneath the full moon. In short, the average 
vampire knows as much about werewolves as the shoddy movies on the Late Late Show 
can tell him. In return, most Garou know just as little about vampire society. They are 
unaware of the major vampire factions or that vampires organize themselves in clans 
just as Garou organize in tribes. They believe that garlic and crosses will hold a vampire 
at bay and that vampires cannot cross running water. They certainly don’t know that 
vampires call themselves Kindred rather than vampires. Most Garou know about 
vampires through late-night movies or paperback novels. 
Wise vampires never attempt to manipulate a werewolf directly. They work 
through intermediaries and functionaries, keeping at least three layers of intrigue 
between them and their target. Many vampires are stronger, faster and more powerful 
than mortals, but few can stand up to a Garou in war-form. It is rumored that elder 
vampires possess powers that can stop even a charging Crinos in his tracks, but only 
the brash go looking for elders to test the theory. 
Two major factions of vampires exist: the Camarilla and the Sabbat. The 
Camarilla works to keep vampiric existence a secret from mortals; some vampires in 
the ranks struggle to maintain their sense of self and humanity, although few Garou 
appreciate the effort. The Sabbat believe themselves to be the ultimate predators, and 
everything else below them is prey. They have been known to hold hunts in which 
they track down Garou and kill them for sport. 
Within the two factions may be found smaller ones: clans, bloodlines, societies, 
friendships, enmities - 
the usual variety of alliances and schemes and every sort of 
person can be found in the ranks. They include street punks, political power brokers, 
plot. 
262 
6
i


wizards, diplomats, assassins and even stranger creatures. Some clans may be more 
likely to encounter the Garou than others. Those of Clan Gangrel have a particular 
affinity for the wild places that the Garou often share, and may maintain an uneasy 
non-aggression pact with the local Garou. Glass Walkers on the streets or in the halls 
of city power are likely to cross paths with Leeches who claim the same turf while the 
sorcerous Clan Tremere and the Uktena tribe often clash when they’re fighting over 
the same bit of occult knowledge. In general, the hate that vampires and werewolves 
bear each other is ancestral, and at the very least, they will stay out of each other’s way. 
The youngest vampires, known as neonates, have Attributes and Abilities similar 
to those of Garou characters. Most vampires of less than 100 years’ experience are 
neonates, unless they have found some way in which to distinguish themselves to their 
elders. Garou are most likely to encounter neonates as neonates are usually directly 
involved in their own power-games. Also, neonates may confront Garou in an attempt 
to gain status among their peers or elders. 
Vampires from 300 to 1000 years’ experience are called elders. Such vampires 
often hold positions of power in urban areas, whether among vampiric peers or by dint 
of long-standing influence. These older vampires will only rarely come into direct 
contact with a werewolf; most of them have enough experience and fear for their own 
safety to know better. Many older vampires have lost a great deal of their humanity, 
and thus are more likely to register as Wyrm-tainted. They often suffer at least one 
derangement as well - 
the human mind rarely survives centuries intact. Years of 
experience often give them far greater Attributes and Abilities that only the greatest 
athro and Garou elders could hope to counter. 
Vampires often have multitudes of servants, usually mortal, who act for them 
during the daylight hours. Many of these servants are ghouls, humans who have fed 
upon the blood of vampires without first having been drained of their own blood. They 
tend to be stronger than normal humans, and as long as they keep vampiric blood in 
their system, they will not age. Otherwise they should be created as normal humans. 
Many vampires keep ghouls as servants, retainers, employees, spies and food. After 
ingesting enough vampire blood, many ghouls develop fanatic bonds of loyalty and 
devotion to their masters; some may even commit crime or hurl themselves bodily at 
Garou if commanded. 
- 
Mechanics 
Garou possess 12 Blood Traits. Their blood is so potent that each Trait a vampire 
drinks counts as two Traits. Further, because of the Rage inherent in Garou, the 
vampire gains the Negative Trait: Impatient, and feels restless and edgy until the blood 
finally cycles out. Storytellers are advised that the last blood in is the last blood out. 
Vampires with Humanity ratings of three or less will register as Wyrm-tainted to 
Garou sensitive to such things. Any vampire following a Path other than Humanity 
automatically stinks of the Wyrm, no matter what her rating; codes of conduct that 
espouse inhuman behavior are anathema to the Garou. The only exception to this are 
those who follow the Path of the Feral Heart, which registers like Humanity for the 
purposes of Wyrm-taint. 
See Laws of the Night for more information on playing vampires with Mind’s Eye 
Theatre, and The Vampire Storytellers Guide for information on vampire-werewolf 
interaction. 
263 


li/ Wraiths: The Whisper in the 
Shabow 
When people die in the World of Darkness, their spirits move on to a variety of 
resting places. Some souls fail to go on, though. These wandering spirits, called 
wraiths, hover near the living world, watching over their families, keeping an eye on 
favored places or guarding items that were of value to them in life. Wraiths usually 
have several “Passions,” or quests of great importance to them; most of their actions 
will lead them in pursuit of these Passions. These pursuits are the reason why these 
ghosts were not able to move on. 
Wraiths inhabit a portion of the Umbral spirit-lands known as the Dark Umbra. 
Silent Striders who have entered these lands speak of a place that is perpetually in 
twilight, a reflection of the world in the same way as the Periphery, but this reflection 
is in a dark mirror, showing only decay. As wraiths are no longer living, they do not 
enter the Umbra where Garou usually travel, nor can they enter the living world, save 
through some physical manifestation or by possessing a body. Both means are difficult, 
so many wraiths seek living allies to assist them with their tasks. Garou, being tied as 
they are to the spirit world, often make excellent targets. A dead mother might want 
to get her child away from his abusive father, or a child might want to comfort her 
grieving siblings - 
many tasks are often more delicate than a Garou’s two-fisted 
sensibility can fathom. The quests might also be, as far as the werewolfcan see, entirely 
pointless. A wraith might want an apparently worthless item (adoll, acar key, adiary) 
delivered to someone, and only the Garou can either hear her request or is solid enough 
to accomplish it. However, not every request is necessarily benign - 
some wraiths 
may hunger for revenge against a murderer or someone who is harming a beloved 
relative. Garou may create wraiths when they heedlessly slaughter a mortal who 
wandered into the wrong part of the woods or showed residual Wyrm-taint, and the 
wraith may well seek vengeance against her killer. 
Some wraiths have given in to the darkness that resides within them, and these 
can be the most dangerous to encounter. Any wraith has a chance of becoming one 
of these monsters, and the transition isn’t always obvious. Some of these creatures are 
mindless monsters. Others can be subtle and cunning, spinning schemes to ruin the 
world and the creatures around them. These monsters, called Spectres, embody the 
worst aspects of powerful emotion gone very wrong, and a Garou who survives her 
encounter with a sadistic Spectre is not likely to forget the encounter. 
Most Garou, with the possible exception of Silent Striders, know little of wraiths. 
They may know that wraiths come in as many flavors as any other major group, and 
that some of them serve the Wyrm. They may have heard things that suggest that all 
wraiths enslave and destroy each other. They may also have seen “Beetlejuice” too 
many times and be wildly off-base regarding wraith behavior. 
Recently, a mighty stormswept through the lands of the dead, upending whatever 
society the wraiths had and turning many loose across the spirit world. Some ghosts 
seem to have claimed bodies and returned to the lands of the living in search of their 
own private goals. In the past, only a few rare ghosts with incredible strength of will 
could return to their bodies, but now many more have been literally blown into the 
living world by the storm in the deadlands. If these ghosts succeed in achieving their 
goals, they return to the lands of the dead - 
unfortunately, many of their goals involve 
264 


bloodshed and destruction. Those Garou who know of the walking dead believe them 
v 
to be an affront to Gaia’s order and destroy them when possible. 
Wechanics 
Youmay use spirit Charms to simulate the powers ofwraiths, or youmay find more 
details on them in Oblivion. Other than these powers, you should create wraiths as 
normal humans, as most started out that way. 
Wraiths cannot be harmed by normal weapons, but fetish weapons, such as 
klaives, will damage them. At the point at which a character would normally die, 
wraiths vanish. They have been temporarily destroyed, but they will reform at a later 
time, and often return to seek vengeance against their attackers. If they are destroyed 
enough times (Storyteller’s discretion) they may disappear for good. 
Wraiths cannot be bound into fetishes unless they agree to the arrangement. 
Few Garou Gifts affect wraiths or allow Garou to interact with the dead. 
Occasionally Spirit Speech or Sense the Unnatural may work, but not reliably. The Rite 
of Bidng, Command Spirit and Call to Duty will not work on a wraith. In general, 
wraiths are anathema to Garou, and Garou have little influence over them. After all, 
Garou are intimately tied to life and to the cycle of life. Wraiths, on the other hand, 
are quite dead, and have stepped out of that cycle. 
Changelings: myearns in the 
‘Waking ~ o r I b  
The Fair Folk, like the Garou, have been adversely affected by the encroachment 
of civilization upon the wild places of the earth. To a certain extent, the Fair Folk are 
shaped by the dreams and belief of humanity; if they remained in their true form, they 
would be destroyed by the utter lack of belief in the supernatural Man displays now. 
Thus, faeries fused their spirits to hardy human shells in order to survive. The result 
was changelings, faerie souls bound in human flesh, walking between the world of 
dreams and the modern world. 
Changelings come in quite literally all shapes and sizes - 
as many as there are 
dreams in the world. One group, called the sidhe, embody classic faerie traits -awe- 
inspiring beauty, noble bearing and heights of passion that can even give a Garou 
pause. These are often the rulers of the changelings. Other changelings may have 
animal traits, strange-colored eyes, the exotic features of distant lands or titanic 
strength. Some are even tied to the land itself, with the forms ofnative peoples or even 
the very elements. Being inspired by dreams does not necessarily mean all changelings 
are nice, though; nightmares are the flip side of dreams, and there are plenty of faeries 
with a taste for human flesh, an unhealthy interest in the dead or a love of chaos and 
destruction. As creatures of dream, their passions and rages are unabashedly wild, they 
love with abandon and take their duties very seriously. 
Changelings inhabit a secondary world they call the Dreaming; this is a spirit- 
world, although unaccessible to Garou. Like any spirit-reflection of the living world, 
the Dreamingreflects the real world in a different fashion - 
in this case, the real world 
becomes more magical, more colorful, more fantastic. Normally the Dreaming, and 
their faerie forms, are invisible to normal eyes. By enchanting someone, a faerie can 
cause her to see the Dreaming. The downside to this is that a person can be hurt in the 
265 


Dreaming just as easily as in the real world. Once the enchantment is removed, a veil 
y 
of forgetfulness similar to the Delirium, called the Mists, settles across the memories 
of the enchanted person - 
she may recall the time of enchantment only in dreams or 
in fragments that seem more like imagination. 
Those of dreams fear reality, and sometimes with good reason. This is a world 
where dreams and imagination are scorned and where those with wildly different 
outlooks on life may be belittled or even harmed for their beliefs. The real world means 
being responsible, doing things “right,” and not enjoying fantasy. For changelings, 
such heavy doses of reality can spell disaster - 
dreams do not hold up well under 
scrutiny, and someone who actively disbelieves in dreams and faeries (or who is simply 
an extremely dull, unimaginative person) may well whittle a changeling’s spirit to 
nothingness. 
The Fianna are typically held to have the most experience with the Shining Host, 
and indeed, their histories intertwine on several occasions; some even intermarried, 
mingling their blood to create truly gifted Kinfolk. Some faeries still honor the old 
pacts made by their ancestors with the Fianna, and elder Fianna remember to do the 
same. The Uktena and Wendigo also have legends from their mortal tribes of the 
mercurial Little People who inhabited the fields and streams of North America and 
occasionally emerge to treat with their supernatural cousins. 
Odds are, Garou will encounter a faerie maybe once in their lifetimes, but once 
can be more than enough. Because the Fair Folk live intensely and tend to embody 
strong archetypes, this can give Garou very biased ideas of what the Fair Folk are like. 
They may believe that all changelings are heroes from ancient tales or that all 
changelings lie and trick mortals. Or, as always, their ideas may be heavily influenced 
by popular culture - 
they may think of the goblins of “Labyrinth or pink-sugar “fairy 
princesses.” 
Mechanics 
The world of changelings is hidden to all, even Garou, unless they are first 
enchanted and opened to the possibility of dreams. Enchantment can happen a 
number of ways, the most common being for the changeling to offer her target an 
object (a cupcake, a drawing, a flower, whatever) that is infused with a bit of her faerie 
self. By willingly accepting this item, the person falls under enchantment. 
Spirit Charms or Garou Gifts can represent the broad spectrum of changeling 
powers, or see The Shining Host for more information on using changelings with 
Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
Wages: Shapers of Reality 
Mages are mortals of great mystical power. They literally bend reality to their will. 
They can perform feats of magic not achievable by anyone else. Yet if they push reality 
too far, it bites back. They suffer from something called “Paradox.” If a Mage performs 
magic that violates the laws of reality, all sorts of nasty things may happen to her. She 
may suffer from small inconveniences called “flaws” - 
for instance, if she performs a 
feat involving electricity, then she may cause electrical appliances around her to short 
out for a while. 
“Paradox spirits” may besiege Mages, haunting them or dragging them off to 
distant realms in order to teach them the error of their ways. Mages may literally 
explode with Paradox energy, taking great damage or even dying from the backlash. 
266 


Mages may develop hallucinations and delusions, apparently going mad for days or 
- 
weeks at a time. 
Because of the danger of Paradox, most magic takes the form of strange 
coincidences. Some mages use their magic simply to see and otherwise detect things 
that normal mortals cannot thus, these people may act as marvelous sources of 
informat ion. 
Garou usually avoid mages. Mages have all of the complex motives of any 
ordinary human, with world-altering powers to back them up. This can cause all sorts 
of trouble. Those Garou who understand enough about mages to grasp the basics of 
Paradox often see it as Gaia’s punishment for mages’ presumption. 
Mages use an energy they call “Quintessence” to fuel some of their magical 
workings. Quintessence may be found inNodes, what Garou call caerns. Mages may 
drain caerns dry in their search for more Quintessence; thus, some Garou see them as 
threats. 
Mages make versatile allies and antagonists. Because they have all the goals and 
passions of any normal human, they get involved in all sorts of plots. Their power 
sometimes makes them think that they have the right or the duty to deal with things 
most people would stay out of. Mages may come into conflict with Garou by 
attempting to take the energy in a caem. Those called “technomages” indirectly serve 
the Weaver, which might well bring them into conflict with Garou. Still others serve 
the Wyld, or at least havegoodmotives, and thus might bewilling to workwithGarou. 
Mages might trademysticalhelp, items, or information in return for favorsfromGarou; 
a good barter arrangement can lead to all sorts of interesting plots. Also, as Mages are 
ultimately human, they may easily become emotionally involved - 
one might fall in 
love with a Garou or hate the Garou because they killed someone she loved. 
Magic 
When it comes down to it, magic can be used to do absolutely anything- as long 
as you have the right mage. In general, however, magic comes in categories. One mage 
might specialize in living things - 
healing, shape-shifting, injury, etc. Another might 
specialize in the forces of entropy - 
luck, both good and bad, as well as the forces of 
randomness and decay, can be seen and manipulated by this mage. The basic 
categories are: Spirit, Entropy, Life, Matter (non-living things - 
vampires come 
under this category), Forces (energies), Mind, Correspondence (distances), Prime 
(magical energies), Time. 
You don’t need to know how a mage uses these categories in order to create her 
magic. They’re simply provided to give you a way to make each mage’s abilities 
unique and interesting. A mage who specializes in the manipulation of living things 
can do very different things than a mage who specializes in the manipulation of time. 
Use them as guides for the creation of a magical style rather than as rules for how to 
work magic. 
Each Mage also has a particular style of casting magic. One Mage might work with 
elaborate rituals, chalk circles and intricate symbols. Another works with animal 
sacrifice and herbal brews. A third yet uses meditation and chanting. A technomage 
might write a program to accomplish magic. 
A Mage may use magic to warp the world in whatever way you see fit. You would 
do well to decide ahead of time just how powerful a Mage is in terms of what he can 
267 


affect, how easy it is for him to harm Garou, etc. If you aren’t careful it can be easy to 
let magic get out of hand. 
Sorcerers 
Sorcerers are not technically Mages, but they can work a poor cousin to magic. 
Rather than simply bending reality to their will with whatever style of casting they 
believe works best, Sorcerers work with rigidly prescribed rituals to achieve the same 
effect every time. They cannot cause the large, reality-altering effects that Mages can. 
However, they also do not have problems with Paradox. Sorcerers are even more likely 
than most Mages to operate in groups and to use elaborate rituals. 
Fuct ions 
The Traditions are probably the closest thing to a “traditional” view of Mages and 
witches. The Traditions are a loosely affiliated group of various organizations of Mages. 
Some of the members of these “organizations” are just as loosely affiliated. Each 
Tradition specializes in a certain category of magic, and each has a style of magic that 
most of its members practice. Tradition Mages range from far-Eastem mystics to 
computer junkies to Goth street kids. 
The Technocracy serve the Weaver, even though they do not realize it. The 
Technocracy are “technomages.” They use Devices instead of Talismans, lab proce- 
dures rather than rituals. Most of them would deny to their graves that what they do 
is magic. They seek to bind as much of the Wyld as possible to static reality, mapping 
out and paving over the wild places of the earth - 
and beyond. The Technocracy 
considers supematurals to be a danger to humanity, so they make marvelous antago- 
nists. If a Garou is careless and allows herself to be seen by non-Garou, these Mages 
may come to investigate. They tend to integrate themselves into government offices, 
and may seem to be just another FBI team. But they know the supernatural exists and 
they’re prepared to deal with it. 
Marauders are Mages infected by the Wyld. Their minds don’t work normally any 
more; most are considered incurably insane. Reality warps of its own accord when a 
Marauder is nearby. Some of them have such a strong effect on reality that Garou will 
only encounter them deep in the Umbra - 
if these Marauders try to come to earth, 
they fall right through reality. Garou have been known to ally with Marauders in the 
cause of the Wyld, but these creatures are dangerous and unreliable. When they work 
magic Paradox doesn’t affect them; instead it affects the people and places around 
them. While Garou may occasionally make deals with Marauders, they’re unlikely to 
spend much time in their presence. 
Nephandi are Mages who serve the Wyrm. Think of every dark tale of black 
magicians serving demonic masters, and you’ll understand the Nephandi. Some of 
them are simply evil and do little to hide their corruption. Others make an art form 
of disguise and the corruption of others. Nephandi might act as overt enemies of the 
Garou, or they might pretend to ally themselves to the Garou in an attempt to design 
their downfall. 
Both the Technocracy and the Traditions generally see Marauders and Nephandi 
as the enemy. The Technocracy and Traditions also see each other as the enemy, and 
have been fighting something called “the Ascension War” for a very long time. 
268 


Mages have the usual statistics of a ranked Garou (with power that increases with 
age), although Mental Attributes are almost always primary. Mages always have at 
least three Willpower Traits - 
one must be strong-willed and self-possessed to 
command reality to their will. Some mages workwith tried-and-true “spells” (or rotes), 
particularly sorcerers. In this case, their powers may be represented as Gifts or as spirit 
Charms - 
albeit ones with side-effects for mages who take Paradox. 
For more about mages in MET, see Laws of Ascension. 
The Changing dreebs 
The Garou may like to think of themselves as the only game in town, but there 
are a number of other shapeshifters out there. Most of these see the Garou as 
temperamental and dangerous, and usually in an uncomplimentary light. The War of 
Rage took a devastating toll on these shifted numbers, and they blame the Garou for 
the carnage. Meetings, therefore, tend to be few and far between. Every once in a 
while, however, the Garou may find themselves face-to-face with a shifter of an 
entirely different breed. 
Huwisha 
The laughing werecoyotes see themselves as tricksters of Gaia’s creatures and self- 
appointed guardians of the Umbra. Nuwisha value humor and cunning above valor 
and do not tend to take themselves, or anyone else, too seriously. The Nuwisha are 
mostly gone from the world, save for some two dozen who walk the Gaia realm. The 
rest dwell in the Umbra, where they explore to their heart’s content and guard it from 
abuse. Most people (particularly the Garou) see Nuwisha as practical-joking annoy- 
ances. The Nuwisha see themselves as teachers; their lessons simply believe that the 
best way for someone to learn is through mistakes made, and encourage this learning 
by playing pranks on their targets. Some Nuwisha play subtle, cunning jokes that never 
get recognized for what they are. Others possess all the subtlety of a hurricane, 
although only in rare instances are pranks fatal (unless the target is of the Wyrm). 
Nuwisha are solitary creatures, and they seldom like to stay in one place for a long 
time. They see companions as a hindrance rather than advantages, and they do their 
best to indulge their insatiable curiosity. The Nuwisha are believed to have been the 
first of the Changing Breeds to explore other lands, and their Kinfolk are widely 
diverse, both ethnically and geographically (Coyote was a rather amorous sort, and the 
Nuwisha follow his example with enthusiasm). 
Nuwisha are the perfect tool when a character needs to learn a serious lesson, and 
previous attempts have not scratched him. Nuwisha may spend long hours, days or 
even weeks setting up the perfect prank to teach a Garou a lesson. Any Garou who 
takes himself way too seriously, who believes that violence is the answer to every 
situation or who treats mortals or other Changing Breeds like trash may find himself 
the victim of a Nuwisha joke. Nuwisha also tend to get into all sorts of odd situations 
and problems because of their curiosity. It would be perfectly in-character for a 
Nuwisha to find a problem that needs to be solved and trick a bunch of Garou into 
solving it for him (if it teaches them something along the way, all the better). 
269 


Coyote once offended Luna, who angrily turned her face from him and his 
children. Because of this, all Nuwisha are Ragabash. They have no Rage. They may 
regenerate damage, yet they take no damage from silver. They cannot frenzy and take 
no extra actions during combat. The Nuwisha believe this state to be a blessing - 
since they can control their tempers much better than Garou, they can solve problems 
through other means than violence. 
Nuwisha have access to any Ragabash Gifts related to stealth, trickery and deceit. 
They all follow the Trickster as their totem, choosing different aspects ofhim to honor. 
Otherwise, they should be created as any Garou. 
Nuwisha see all coyotes and humans as their kin, and so there are no special notes 
regarding the creation of Nuwisha Kinfolk. 
See The Changing Breeds 1 for more information on the Nuwisha. 
Corax 
The gossipy wereravens call themselves Gaia’s messengers and scouts, and they 
fulfill their role admirably. Their insatiable curiosity outpaces even that of the 
Nuwisha, and they are drawn to uncover every odd piece of information that they can. 
For as much as they dig up, they also pass it along. Followers of Raven, they are a mix 
of his various appearances - 
tricksters, spies, messengers, creators and heralds. 
Raven’s place in world folklore assures his children are found nearly everywhere in the 
world, and are usually welcome. 
While mostfolksfindCorax information helpful, they aIsodreadaCorax actually 
learning anything about them. In addition to being fonts of gossip, Corax are also 
terrible blabbermouths -they simply can’t help themselves. One never knows what’s 
going to come out during a late-night gab-fest, although most Corax are wise enough 
to know what is not to be talked about in casual company. Status among the C o r a  is 
directly related to the amount of interesting information a C o r a  uncovers and passes 
on to the great network, so the high-ranking Corax are some of the best informed 
creatures on the planet. Corax delight in the advent of the electronic world and use 
it freely. What better way to spread information than by e-mail and Web pages? What 
better way to spy on people than with listening devices and cameras? After all, not all 
people are obliging enough to hold their top-secret meetings outside where a 
nondescript raven can listen in on the proceedings. 
Corm travel swiftly in the Umbra and seem to know their way around the Gaia 
realm quite well - 
after all, the info’s no good if you can’t get back with it. They are 
well-versed in Umbral travel, particularly through the deadlands, which leads to 
another of their particular abilities. Corax are capable of drinking the eyes of dead 
humans and animals, which allows them to see the last moments ofan individual’s life. 
They believe it to be their sacred duty to do this, to give the dead their voice in things. 
It doesn’t hurt that they gain amazing information this way. 
Corax have a fascination with bright, shiny objects. Bits of jewelry, coins, most 
anything sparkly or shiny (including important things like car keys or fetishes) tends 
to go missing when the Corax are around. 
The Corax have a better relationship with the Garou than most other changers 
do; after all, everyone needs information, and certain tribes honor Raven highly. 
Often Corax perform scouting activities for septs, such as uncovering and spying on 
a group of fomori, and then pass the actual battle duties on to the local pack of Garou. 
270 


Garou might need to enlist a Corax’s help to uncover information about a foe. Corax 
can be used to get Garou into all sorts of plots, and to get almost any piece of 
information to the Garou. 
Mechanics 
Corax have access to spirit Charms as Gifts, Silent Strider Gifts and any other 
Gifts that have to do with travel, spying or information-gathering. 
Corax are not born in the way that other shifters are. Instead, a Corm forms an 
Umbral Spirit Egg and ties it to achild or fledgling raven. When the Spirit Egg hatches, 
it lets out a shriek heard for quite a distance in the Umbra, which can attract all sorts 
of nasty beasts who are looking for Spirit Egg omelet. This scream brings the Spirit 
Egg’s guardian running, and she helps the new Corax through his First Change. Since 
Corax are created rather than born, their parents and siblings can’t really be 
considered Kinfolk, although their children are. However, since Corax don’t need 
Kinfolk to create more Corax, and because they’re such solitary folk, Kinfolk don’t 
matter all that much to Corax. That isn’t to say that they treat their Kinfolk badly or 
look down on them. Instead, it means that they don’t tend to use and abuse their 
Kinfolk the way some Garou do. The creation method also ensures that there are no 
metis Corax. 
Early on, Raven took up with Helios, the sun, as have Raven’s children. Because 
of this, gold affects them in the same way silver does a Garou. 
Corax aren’t really built for battle; Gaia meant for them to be messengers, not 
death from above. They have only three forms: Homid, Rara Avis and Corvid. Rara 
Avis is their equivalent of Crinos. It’s also arather embarrassing, ungainly form, so few 
Corax will admit to it in mixed company; Garou who have never seen it tend to think 
it’s an unusually ugly fomor. 
See Changing Breeds 1 for more information on the Corax. 
&stet 
The legends have it that a long time ago, the Garou would not approach the 
encampments of humanity. They asked Gaia for an ally to bring them information and 
Gaia created the Bastet. However, the Bastet had an inordinate love of secrets, and 
hated it when someone told them what to do; they learned the secrets of humanity, 
but refused to share them. Gaia cursed them in turn, that their secrets would prove 
their undoing. Perhaps it is from the werecats that one finds the expression about 
curiosity killing the cat. ... 
The Bastet find humans fascinating, and many feel protective toward them. 
Although they regret that the spread of humans has caused their feline relatives to be 
hunted near to extinction, the Bastet continue to protect humans. Many Bastet so 
opposed the Impergium that a rift grew between them and the Garou, and it has yet 
to heal. Both Wars of Rage took a terrible toll on the Bastet, further deepening the 
bitter wounds. 
The Bastet are a sensual folk who enjoy the companionship of others, but most 
of them move on eventually. Most Bastet believe that rank and status should be 
determined entirely by an individual’s own worth. Because ofthis, they treat metis just 
like any other Bastet - 
although severe physical deformities may cause these finicky 
folk to avoid someone. The Bastet share the famous curiosity of their feline cousins, 
but they tend to keep their secrets to themselves. Their fondness of appearing 
271 


I 
enigmatic sometimes causes them to exercise bad judgement in terms of which secrets 
they should keep to themselves or reveal. Unlike other secret-gatherers, like the Corax 
and Nuwisha, the Bastet can and do fight to guard their secrets. Those who know them 
do not willingly tangle with them. 
As stereotypical as it might sound, these dogs and cats do not get along. The 
Bastet see Garou as crude, stupid and dirty, little better than stray dogs. A Bastet might 
get in the way of any Garou who becomes too careless with humans, especially her own 
Kin. As they tend to hang onto their information unless the receiver is worthy, Bastet 
might require entire quests or the acquisition of important secrets in retum for 
divulging information. 
G i b e s  
The Bagheera are the wereleopards, the judges and mediators of catkind. They 
travel a great deal, and are generally well-learned. Bagheera are remarkably even- 
tempered, and are the Bastet most likely to interact calmly with Garou. Don’t make 
them angry, however; they fight with a passion few can match. Bagheera work 
constantly to make peace between cat, wolf and human. 
Aggressive and fiercely xenophobic, the werejaguar Balam are usually found in 
Central America. Beneath their anger and warlike nature, the Balam share a rich 
culture and a knack for elaborate tribal artwork. Few know of this culture, so most see 
the Balam as warriors. 
The Bubasti are descended from the mystical cats of ancient Egypt, and were 
once worshipped as gods. Since then, they have delved in occult secrets and do not 
shrink from wherever the search takes them. Their desire for knowledge leaves them 
lean and eternally hungry, and some fear their hunger leads them to Wyrm-taint. 
The Ceilican descended from wildcats that once lived inNorthem Europe. They 
bore faerie blood, and often held great revelries with the Fair Folk. Legend has it they 
died out in the 1500s, victim of human witch-hunts; in reality, a couple dozen have 
survived. Like the fae, they are mercurial and strange -manically 
happy one minute, 
then sullen and unresponsive the next. The Ceilican sometimes dabble in sorcery, and 
they have a love of gossip. Because of their faerie blood, they fear the touch of iron as 
well as silver. 
The Khan are the union between tiger and man. Some call them the warriors of 
the Bastet, and they have matched Ahroun in battle many times. They set great store 
by honor, and like humans less than many of the other tribes. The loss of their tiger- 
kin to human encroachment has driven them to great rage. 
The Pumonca, the werecougars, enjoy their solitude even more than other 
Bastet. Most descend from Native American stock to at least some degree. They have 
a very strong sense of the earth, and a bond with nature. Pumonca take their post as 
defenders of the sacred land very seriously. 
The Qualmi werelynxes have a fascination with riddles, puzzles and enigmas, and 
they tend to confuse those they meet. They maintain a very strong Native American 
lineage, and are vigorous, sturdy people. 
Simba bring together the most violent aspects of lion and man. Unlike most 
Bastet, these werecats believe the Impergium was necessary to keep the humans in 
their place. They see themselves as kings, and they resent Bastet who do not bow to 
their will (most often the Khans). 
The Swara are werecheetahs. Like their feline cousins, they are fast and fleet. 
Unlike the majority of the Bastet, they may step sideways into the Umbra. The Swara 
212 


do not trust humans or other Bastet; they trust only the animals and the spirits. They, [$ 
like the Pumonca, are loners, and they revere Luna (they call her Seline), calling 
themselves “the Silver Folk” in her honor. They know almost as much spirit lore as the 
Garou, but they hate the wolves. 
N.l echanics 
Feline Bastet have the same restrictions on Backgrounds and Abilities that lupus 
Garou have. They may not take Past Lives or Pack Totem Backgrounds. Bastet have 
access to Silver Fang and Shadow Lord Gifts, as well as to any Gifts related to social 
interactions, grace, information-gathering, cunning and combat. 
Bastet do not receive Luna’s favor and have no auspices. Only afew of them can 
step sideways into the Umbra. They do, however, share the Garou vulnerability to 
silver, as well as the Garou regenerative ability. 
The cats’ solitary nature often leads them to interact little with their Kinfolk, 
although there are exceptions to this rule. The Khan continue to intermarry with 
noble families of India and Asia, and take pride in their blood. The Bagheera remain 
close to their Kinfolk on both sides. Most Simba care only for their feline Kinfolk, and 
will breed only with cats. The laws ofthe Bastet encourage them to honor their Kinfolk 
as they would each other. 
See The Changing Breeds 1 for more information on the Bastet. 
Gurahl 
The Gurahl bear-shifters embody the wisdom and nurturing instincts of Gaia. 
They are the keepers of great lore, and they take loving care of the bears and those 
humans who respect bears in their protectorates. Most know the Gurahl as healers and 
protectors. When something makes them angry, however, they become quite powerful 
and dangerous. They share intimate ties with the land and with Gaia; they often sense 
when their protectorate is in danger. 
Gaia entrusted the Gurahl with the secrets of life and death; legend has it they 
were the first and the best-loved of her children. They possess (as a very high-level 
Gift) the ability to restore life to dead werecreatures. They have never been known to 
use this Gift on non-Gurahl, and use it only on Gurahl who gave their lives to save 
others. The Garou once asked the Gurahl to teach them the secret to the restoration 
of life. The Gurahl refused, and the resultant anger of the Garou was seen as one of the 
causes of the War of Rage. 
The Gurahl move through the various auspices during their lives, never staying 
in any one for very long. Usually auspice is determined by age; for example, cubs display 
playfulness and inquisitiveness associated with the New Moon. However, events in a 
Gurahl’s life may also force a change from one auspice to another. Like their ursine 
cousins, Gurahl tend to walk alone and have been known to enter hibernation. 
G i b e s  
The Gurahl recognize four primary tribes. Membership does not necessarily imply 
racial background or parentage. Membership instead implies an affinity for and 
dedication to a natural feature. 
The Forest Walkers remained isolated for a long time. Now they move again 
among the humans. They work in environmental restoration programs, act to restore 
the black bear population and aid in rights movements of various kinds. They may be 
213 


-$-it-/l/4dA
found across the United States and even into Mexico and parts of Canada. Some walk 
the forests that remain in Europe, and others travel to the rainforests in Africa and 
South America. Their policy of isolationism greatly reduced their numbers and they’re 
trying to reverse that tide. They have made some alliances with the Bastet, and have 
made some attempts to breed with native Asian bears, with little success. Forest 
Walkers may be found living in groups of two or three for support and mutual 
protection. 
The Ice Stalkers take their war against the Wyrm quite personally, and they hunt 
down and destroy any corruption that enters their frozen lands. While they could not 
prevent humankind from settling in their lands, they extracted a heavy toll for its 
presence whenever possible. Eventually Pentex got a foothold in their lands, occasion- 
ally arranging oil spills in order to create lands suitable for habitation by Wyrm 
creatures. The Ice Stalkers, in response, have Raged across the cold lands, doing battle 
whenever possible with the Wyrm’s minions. 
The Mountain Guardians formed after the Gurahl moved into the Americas to 
escape the War of Rage. When Europeans swept across the continent, the Guardians 
withdrew entirely. This almost proved their undoing. While they hid, their ursine 
Kinfolk, the grizzly bears, almost entirely died out. Their human Kinfolk were forced 
onto reservations or killed outright. Now the Guardians do everything they can to 
bring the grizzly back and to aid their human Kinfolk in retaking their rightful places. 
The Guardians are the strongest and the most combat-oriented Gurahl. 
The River Keepers flourished along many of the world’s great rivers and acted 
as spiritual leaders. They used to be the most numerous of the Gurahl tribes, but the 
Garou killed many of them in the War ofRage. The Impergium, as well as many human 
wars, wiped out large numbers of their Kinfolk. The River Keepers may be most easily 
found in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, but they do their best to maintain a 
presence along other waterways as well. Most River Keepers descend from brown bears, 
but a number come from other bear types. 
Mechanics 
Gurahl may spend Rage at a one-to-one ratio to increase the number of health 
levels they inflict in Physical Challenges. They may have access to Philodox, Theurge 
and ChildrenofGaia Gifts, as well as any other Gifts or Rites involving peace, healing 
or nature. 
Kinfolk are very precious to the Gurahl now that the bear populations have 
shrunk in so many places. The Gurahl honor and trust their ursine Kinfolk more than 
the human, but they realize the importance of human Kinfolk. Many Gurahl claim 
tribes of Native Americans as Kinfolk, and are often involved with helping their 
chosen tribes. All of the Gurahl tribes seek to expand their Kinfolk breeding stock as 
best they can. 
See The Changing Breeds 2 for more information on Gurahl. 
wokole‘ 
Gaia chose these mighty werelizards to be Her memory, and it is a trust they hold 
sacred. They alone hold memories stretching back before the Impergium, even to the 
time of the dinosaurs, who live on in Mokol6 Archid (or Crinos) form. The Garou 
hunted the Mokol6 mercilessly during the War of Rage; many believed their reptilian 
forms resembled the very face of the Wyrm, and that this implied a spiritual 
214 


resemblance as well. Gaia’s Memory has never forgotten, and most Mokole consider 
the war to be ongoing. Few Garou have managed to work peaceably with the Mokol6. 
The werelizards live in clutches, or family groups, usually found in warm climates 
near water. In the western halfof the world, they are the alligators of the Southeastern 
US, the Gila monsters of the Southwest and the crocodiles of the Central and South 
American river basins. They cluster along the African rivers, wade in the Indian sub- 
continent, and wallow with saltwater crocs and monitor lizards in Australia. In the Far 
East, they are the caymens and Komodo dragons, but their war-forms recall dreams of 
the wise and mighty dragons. 
The Mokol6 consider the Impergium to still be in effect, and continue to cull 
humans. The waning numbers oftheir lizard Kin have resulted in an upswing ofhomid 
Mokol6 and human Kin. Further, with so much swampland disappearing, a number of 
Mokol6 are sheltering at “alligator farms” run by homid or Kinfolk, or occasionally in 
the sewers of cities (giving rise to urban legends of “sewer gators”). 
The werelizards are not called Gaia’s Memory for nothing - 
each is in touch 
with a collective memory that stretches back to the days of the dinosaurs. Mokole may 
recover memories from at least one century into the past, regardless of how young they 
are. Some even recall other shifters who were entirely wiped out during the First War 
of Rage, their names not even known to many Garou. 
Mokol6 obviously make dangerous enemies. Entire plots could be had out of 
Garou needing to convince one or more Mokol6 to help them achieve some goal. 
Likewise, Mokole may need to convince Garou to help them. In the dangerous times 
that are coming, peace is the greatest chance both Mokol6 and Garou have - 
yet 
peace is the last thing most of them want. Garou who care about humans may also need 
to convince some overenthusiastic Mokol6 to let go of the Impergium - 
a difficult 
task indeed. 
Mechanics 
Mokol6 cannot automatically step sideways; they must learn a Gift in order to 
enter the Umbra. Most Mokol6 stay out of the Umbra anyway as it is a place of Garou 
power, and there are rumors of angry spirits that do not enjoy Mokol6 company. 
Mokol6 may have access to Ahroun, Black Fury and Get of Fenris Gifts. 
The Mokol6 primarily follow the Sun. Consequently, gold harms them the way 
silver would harm a Garou. However, because they also have Rage and one faction 
honors Luna, they can also be hurt by silver. Their “auspice” is based on the position 
of the sun, from morning to twilight, when it is clouded over, or even when it’s absent. 
These last, the “Crowned”, are considered the leaders 
The Mokol6 have only three forms: Homid, Archid and Suchid. Suchid form is 
the reptilian form: crocodile, alligator, monitor lizard, Komodo dragon. Crocodile and 
alligator Mokol6 are most common. Archid form is a shape taken from dream at the 
Mokol6’s Rite of Passage, and it resembles a dinosaur or, occasionally, dragon. 
A clutch usually consists of two to 30 Mokol6, and a few dozen to a hundred or 
so Kin. Suchid Kin tend to be valued above homid Kin, although all are valued as a 
part of the clutch. The Mokol6 value fertility greatly, and will gladly fight and die to 
protect a woman who is heavy with child. 
See The Changing Breeds 2 for more details. 
27s 


c; 
q a t  kin 
Ratkin could be termed “Gaia’s terrorists.” Ratkin have often been said to be the 
worst of man and rat, smashed into one body. They believe Gaia asked Mother Rat to 
keep the humans in check, and they all take their responsibility quite seriously. They 
rely upon hit-and-run tactics to get the job done. They tend to be rough-mannered and 
unattractive, the blood of centuries of outcats (along with all manner of diseases) in 
their veins. No one would ever call the Ratkin easy to get along with - 
least of all the 
Garou. 
Alliances with Ratkin, particularly for Garou, are temporary things. And the 
Ratkin will want compensation. “What’s in it for me?” she’ll ask, and if there isn’t a 
good enough answer she’ll head for the door. Few alliances between Ratkin and other 
supematurals last more than a few cycles of the moon at most. Ratkin sometimes ally 
themselves with Bone Gnawers or agroup of sewer-dwelling vampires (theNosferatu). 
Itchy and Scratchy jokes aside, the Ratkin and Bastet are notoriously intolerant of 
each other. 
Ratkin often travel in packs of five to 10. Loyalty matters to Ratkin; they just 
define loyalty a little differently than most other shifters. They do not delineate their 
loyalties by geography or blood - 
all Ratkin are Mother Rat’s children, no matter 
where they’re from, and a rat from Singapore will greet his New York “sibling” with 
respect. 
Ratkin are made, not born - 
as the wererats cannot pass the changing gene to 
their offspring, new Ratkin are created by subjecting the prospective rat or human to 
a rite that induces incredible sickness of body and spirit. Those who survive become 
Ratkin. Fewer would-be Ratkin have survived the rite in recent times, though. 
Ratkin have aspects rather than auspices, and these are determined by the visions 
the Ratkin has while undergoing her First Change: 
The Tunnel Runners act as messengers, spies, scouts and scamrners. They’re 
known for their quick wits and deal best with other shifting breeds.. 
The Shadow Seers act as shamans, and keep the lore of a geographic area. They 
stay in communication with spirits and tend to the spiritual and physical well-being 
of their fellow travelers. At times Seers become lost in religious devotion and mania, 
losing touch with the physical world and those around them. Some see them as insane; 
others see them as gifted. 
The Knife-Skulkers act as judge, jury and executioner. They believe in justice 
and seek it out. If they find justice in need of assistance, they will provide it. 
Ratkin Warriors live constantly with the urge to fight. They often turn this urge 
against humans, seeing the Wyrm as the responsibility of the Garou. They often 
commit wild terrorist acts, and many don’t care if they die when the battle-lust seizes 
them. Warriors do not simply kill - 
they sow chaos and confusion among their 
enemies. 
Wf e chanics 
Ratkin were built to strike fast and hard, not to be one-man death squads. They 
have three forms: Homid, Crinos and Rodens (rat). In Crinos, they gain little height, 
but they are fast, their long tails become like extra limbs, and they are exceptionally 
nimble, squeezing through any hole they can fit their heads in. The Rodens looks like 
a unusually large wharf rat with a very nasty bite. 
276 


Ratkin have access to some Shadow Lord, Ragabash, and Bone Gnawer Gifts. In 1% 
L- 
particular, they may learn Gifts that have to do with information, movement and 
survival. 
See Ratkin for more information. 
Ananasi 
Originally the werespiders and their Queen, Ananasa, served the Weaver. 
Ananasa created the first spider out of Wyld, Weaver and Wyrm together. When the 
Weaver went mad, Ananasa tried to cure it, but the Weaver caught her in a dark opal 
and gave her to the Wyrm, expecting that the Wyrm would devour her. The Wyrm 
held Ananasa hostage and forced the Ananasi to work for it. Eventually Ananasa 
found a flaw in the gem, a way to contact her children. The Kumo, Eastern Ananasi 
whose minds had been twisted by their time spent in servitude to the Wyrm, remained 
its servants. The rest of her children Ananasa divided in three. The Hatar follow the 
path the Wyrm once followed before the Weaver trapped it. The Tenere follow the 
path of order as Weaver once saw it, before she went mad. The Kumoti follow the ways 
of the Wyld. Ananasa’s vision was always one ofbalance and symmetry, and so she used 
her children to create that balance, even though it meant that they would often war 
with one another. 
The other shifters, for their part, have never forgotten that the Ananasi once 
served the Wyrm. Many believe the Ananasi never stopped serving the Wyrm. The 
one thing stronger than the divisions within the Ananasi is their will to protect their 
kind against the other Changing Breeds. Ananasi of different camps will drop 
whatever they’re doing in order to protect each other from other shifters. 
After their First Change, Ananasi do not hold as much interest in the world as 
they used to. Ananasa made them cold and merciless, her hunters, destroyers and 
builders, and the Ananasi call this the Blessing of Ananasa. Their cool reactions and 
icy demeanors among the often Rage-filled shifters earns them few friends. Because 
other shifters do not trust the Ananasi, the Ananasi have learned not to trust other 
shifters. The spiders are monsters; their form has been so ingrained upon the race 
memory of mortals that most humans fear the sight of even a small spider. Thus, the 
Ananasi prefer to remain hidden, sometimes passing as vampires. Because the Ananasi 
may serve any aspect of the Triat, they may involve themselves with the Garou in 
almost any respect. If the balance between the members of the Triat is off in any 
location, one of the types of Ananasi may arrive to re-balance things. This could help 
the Garou or hurt them. Regardless, the Ananasi have not forgiven the Garou for the 
War of Rage. 
Mechanics 
Ananasi have BloodTraits like vampires instead ofRage. They have access to any 
Gifts that suit the side of the Triat the Ananasi serves. 
Ananasi do not feel the effect of silver, but nor can they regenerate as quickly as 
other shifters. They require warm mammalian blood, preferably human, in order to 
survive, and even in Homid they possess retractable fangs. They prefer to sleep during 
the day, but sunlight cannot harm them. Fire is their greatest enemy. It’s no wonder 
they’re often mistaken for vampires. 
Ananasi have four forms: Homid, Lilian, Pithus and Crawlerling. Lilian form 
comes in different flavors, but blends some monstrous mix of human and arachnid. 
271 


I 
Pithus is the form of a gigantic spider. Crawlerling breaks the Ananasi down into a 
horde of normal-sized spiders- enough to equal his human mass. While in Crawlerling, 
the Ananasi is almost impossible to destroy; if even one spider remains, the Ananasi 
may devour other spiders to eventually return to its full mass. She will come back, even 
if looking very different than before. 
Ananasi can and do mate with humans, and they often need humans for blood. 
Since their emotions have been blunted, however, they tend not to care much for the 
people around them. An Ananasi going through the First Change (usually a protracted 
experience) might well kill one or more of her family for sustenance. 
See Ananasi for further information. 
Rokea 
Little is known about the weresharks - 
they stay in the oceans, where very few 
other Changing Breeds go. They are capable of living for hundreds of years, although 
they can be killed or destroyed. Until recently, their only thought was self-presema- 
tion and watching the oceans. Humanity’s “sudden” leaps ahead that dumped crude 
oil and toxic waste into the oceans have changed their mission considerably. These 
awesome predators now have their sights set on humans and anything that assists them. 
Some Rokea used to travel on land and live as part of human society; the Rokea 
called them betweeners. When the humans fouled the oceans with pollution and 
atomic weapons tests, the Rokea decreed that no more Rokea should walk on land. 
Some Rokea took exception to this and became determined that they be able enter the 
mortal world. Thus, the hunting of betweeners became a common part of Rokea 
society. A part of the Rokea Rite of Passage involves the hunting of a betweener. 
(Although, since betweeners are rare, sometimes such a hunt will go after a vampire 
or other breed of shape-shifter.) Because of this, very few Rokea may be found on land, 
and those live in constant fear of their lives. 
Rokea may not stray far from the ocean. They may only regain Gnosis when in 
the ocean, and if they live one calendar year without entering a natural body of salt- 
water they lose their ability to shift shape forever. They become stuck in whatever 
two-legged form they happen to be in at the time; tales of half-fish “gill men” 
circulating around the beaches no doubt arise from unfortunate Rokea who were 
trapped in their Gladius form. 
A betweener might need the help of the Garou to avoid death at the hands of the 
ocean-dwelling Rokea, or she might desire protection for her mate and child. A Garou 
might find himself the subject of a Rite of Passage hunt. Garou who seek to fight the 
pollution of the oceans might discover they’re receiving mysterious aid from those who 
do not wish to reveal themselves. 
Mechanics 
Rokea have five forms, similar to the Garou: Homid, Glabrus (half-man), Gladius 
(or Crinos), Chasmus (Hispo equivalent), Squamus (shark). As there is no human 
blood to temper the shark, Rokea in homid form look very.. . displeasing. A Gladius 
is literally a thing of nightmare, while the Chasmus is enough to give the staunchest 
cage-diver nightmares. 
The Rokea effectively cannot travel into the Umbra, although silver does have 
its traditional effect upon them. They may take Ahroun and Lupus gifts, although 
some must be adjusted for underwater use. 
278 


I, q 
There are no shark Kinfolk- 
unions between Rokea and sharks always produce \ - 
Rokea. Luckily Rokea only feel the urge to mate about once or twice a century, so the 
Rokea don’t overrun the oceans. Only a handful of human Kinfolk exist. Any breeding 
between Rokea and normal human always produces Kinfolk, never Rokea. Land- 
dwelling Rokea seek these Kinfolk for breeding purposes, and ocean-dwelling seek 
them as bait to lure land-dwelling Rokea into the open. A few homid Rokea have been 
born of union between Rokea and Kinfolk, but none of these have lived to reach age 
two - 
Rokea hunting parties always find them first. 
See The Werewolf Players Guide for more information about the weresharks. 
For lack of a better title, the weresnakes are Gaia’s executioners. They bear no 
special allegiance to the Triat or to Gaia, but this lack of loyalties allows them to carry 
out their purpose without too much entanglement. They watch the other Changing 
Breeds, judge their actions, determine whether they have overstepped their purpose 
and execute them if necessary. The snakes have shadowed their steps and have been 
very good at what they do. They so carefully cloaked their activities that the only 
records remaining of their existence mourn them as peaceful, noble and proud. 
The Changing Breeds believe the Nagah to all be dead, victims of the War of 
Rage, and the Nagah would like to keep it that way. After all, the other shifters would 
hardly look kindly on snakes who act as self-appointed judge, jury and executioner. 
Because of this, Nagah never stay in one area for more than a few months at a time. 
They move in “nests” of two or three, and report back to their leaders once or twice 
a year through mystical means. 
No Nagah would ever allow her presence to become known to the Garou. 
However, the Nagah have noticed that the Wyrm’s influence has grown out of 
proportion to what it should be, and so they work to restore that balance as well. 
Because of this, Garou might end up working with a Nagah and never even know it. 
Mechanics 
Nagah may take any Gifts related to stealth, camouflage, misdirection and 
assassination. 
The weresnakes enjoy the five forms like Garou, with similar restrictions: 
Balaram (Homid), Silkaram (Glabro), Azhi Dahaka (Crinos), Kali Dahaka (Hispo) 
and Vasuki (serpent). The Ahzi Dahaka is truly a thing of horror - 
a magnificent 
hooded serpent with powerful arms, balancing on a thick trunk and tail between 16 
and 20 feet long. 
Nagah used to marry into the royal families of India, and took great pride in their 
heritage. As they spread beyond India, they mated as was convenient. Because the 
Nagah care more than most of the other breeds about blending in with the humans, 
they regard their Kinfolk highly. Nowadays, they are spread into every continent; the 
only restriction on their Kinfolk is that any snake they mate with must be venomous. 
See The Werewolf Players Guide for more about the Nagah. 
nlack Spiral Dancers 
Almost two millennia ago the Garou tribe of the White Howlers lived in 
Scotland with their Pictish Kinfolk. According to Garou legend, agents of the Wyrm 
21 9 


Y wiped them out. In truth the White Howlers, an extremely violent tribe, fell to the 
corruption of the Wyrm, and became the first Black Spiral Dancers -werewolves 
entirely in the service of the Wyrm. Today, as more and more Garoufallprey to apathy 
and anger, thus opening up their hearts to the Wyrm, the Black Spiral Dancers grow 
in numbers and power. The Garou have little idea just how strong the Spirals have 
grown. Their population now equals one-tenth of the Garou population, and while the 
other tribes decrease, the Spirals are on the rise, especially since they have few qualms 
about metis. Black Spiral Dancers have no taboo about mating with anything, 
resulting in a large metis population. The Spirals treat metis no differently than their 
other tribe members; indeed, metis often raise Spiral cubs. 
While the White Howlers formed the original Black Spirals, any Garou who gives 
himself over to the Wyrm and walks the Black Spiral Labyrinth may become a Black 
Spiral Dancer. Spirals may subtly corrupt some Garou or blatantly abduct others. 
Through torture and exposure to toxins, Banes and balefires, they force the Garou to 
turn to the Black Spiral. Or they may take the “innocent” Garou and toss her straight 
into the Labyrinth, often destroying her sanity in the process. Others they keep as 
unwilling “breeders.” Since Black Spiral Kinfolk have occasionally managed to breed 
with other tribes’ Kinfolk, some Garou (particularly the Fianna and Silver Fangs, who 
drove the Spirals out of Scotland and settled there) possess a thin strain of taint 
through which the Spirals and the Wyrm manipulate them. 
Most Garou think of Black Spirals as stupid thugs; the Black Spirals know better. 
Far worse than the head-onassault is thesubtle whisper in the ear. Their totems taught 
them the more subtle ways of corruption, how to drive other Garou to into madness, 
self-doubt, greed, lust and ambition, and they have leamed very well. 
Black Spirals keep up corrupted underground caems in places they call “Pits.” 
Labyrinthine underground tunnels mystically connect Pits, as Spirals cannot use 
Moon Bridges. Several packs allied to form a Hive serve each corrupted caem with the 
help of Kinfolk and local Wyrm-spirits. 
The most obvious way to use Black Spiral Dancers in a game is as antagonists. 
When you really want to have a knock-down, drag-out, possibly-deadly battle, Black 
Spiral Dancers can give Garou a real run for their money. Don’t use them lightly, 
however. If there are Spirals in the area, then much more is going on than a simple 
combat. Perhaps one or more Garou might find themselves having nightmares of 
depraved Par Lives. Maybe they hear voices or are haunted by Banes. Perhaps 
something much more subtle is going on. Someone’s Kinfolk might also be Kinfolk to 
the Spirals, acting not entirely in the Garou’s best interest. Perhaps the characters 
must rescue a Garou who has been captured by Spirals and whose corruption has 
already begun. How do you help such a creature? And what if the only thing you can 
do is kill him? 
Sample Oeformities 
The prevalence of metis, the proximity to toxic waste and radiation, and the 
Spirals’ long relationship with the Wyrm has led to a number of physical and mental 
abnormalities and deformities. These abnormalities are seen as blessings conferred by 
the Wyrm. Black Spiral Theurges spend a great deal of time researching a way to allow 
their metis to breed - 
luckily for everyone else, they haven’t yet succeeded. 
The Black Spiral Dancers and their Kinfolk rarely look pretty. Spiral fur may be 
albino-white, black or even gray-green (of course, Spirals who started out as members 
of other tribes show a wider variety of appearances). They usually have hairless, batlike 
280 


ears. Some few may display an unearthly beauty, although their eyes tend to reflect e 
their madness. 
Insanity of one form or another is one of the most prevalent abnormalities among 
the Spirals. Those insane enough to present a danger to the Hive are used as shock 
troops and given an “honorable” death in battle against Garou or other Hive enemies. 
Those more subtly marked often rise to positions of leadership, revered for the touch 
of the Wyrm upon them. Amnesia is one common mental abnormality. Many Spirals 
forget their time before they danced the Black Spiral. Others may suffer from 
delusions, particularly delusions of grandeur. Some Spirals may develop the ability of 
berserking but have great difficulty containing their Rage; other emotional problems, 
such as deep depression or wild mania, also exist. Others might have hallucinations - 
these are seen as sacred visions gifted by the Wyrm. Some Spirals hear voices in their 
heads. Occasionally Spirals suffer from multiple personality disorder. Paranoia is a 
particularly prevalent disorder, along with masochism and sadism. Some Spirals lose 
their ability to empathize withothers-useful 
in that these Spirals have no way to feel 
guilt at what they do to others but difficult in that they find it hard to understand and 
thus predict the actions of their foes. 
Some Spirals look like particularly mangy Garou --their 
fur might be ragged or 
coming out in patches. A Spiral might not have all of their fingers or toes, or digits 
might be fused together. Limbs might be too short or too long or in other ways twisted. 
Blindness and cataracts are not unheard of, although if the Spiral doesn’t learn to deal 
with it quickly, she may find herself someone’s sacrifice. The same applies to Spirals 
whose deformities cripple them. Blisters or tumors erupt across their skins. Some have 
humped backs or cleft palates. Many Spirals don’t pay much attention to their 
appearance, so crooked teeth and lank oily hair are not unusual. After that it gets weird 
-forked 
tongues, serpents’ eyes, tentacles in odd places, strange growths, extra eyes, 
missing noses or other twists on the normal set of features exist. Spines may replace or 
supplement fur. Spiky protuberances may act as a natural defense or weapon; thick, 
platelike skin may form a crude armor. Eyes may lack lids, or use nictating membranes 
instead of lids. Talons may replace fingernails. Arms may end in tentacles or twisted 
claws. Teeth may drip venom or acid. 
Spirals range in appearance from your average next-door neighbor to hideous 
monstrosities that could make most battle-hardened Ahrouns run in fear. Use 
deformities carefully, to achieve horror rather than laughter. 
Mechanics 
Create Dancers in the same way that you create other werewolves. They tend to 
have access to Ahroun and metis Gifts, although these gifts often reflect the Dancers’ 
twisted nature. For example, Heightened Senses may result in a Dancer growing huge 
batlike ears. Dancers may be able to produce poisons as aGift, or they may hurl balefire. 
Simply pattern their abilities after pre-existing Gifts and alter the visible effect to a 
nastier end. 
Black Spiral Kinfolk often experience terrible nightmares, odd compulsions, 
emotional problems andderangements. Due to inbreeding and the taint in their blood, 
many of them possess deformities of some kind, whether physical or mental. Kinfolk 
may enjoy the same depravities as their Black Spiral relatives, or they may be used and 
abused for food, breeding or other types of fun. Many of them don’t even know what 
they serve. Very few wolf Kinfolk exist. Black Spirals will breed with anything, even 
281 


the Kinfolk of other tribes (often distorting their memories with Gifts afterward), so 
you never know where Spiral Kinfolk and taint will show up. 
pentex 
Pentex is the Wyrm’s human arm in the world. Technically, Pentex is a single 
company, although it has grown so large that is more a conglomerate of different 
companies operating under the aegis of one board of directors. Pentex finds ways to 
spread the Wyrm’s taint throughout the world one way or another - 
through toxic 
“accidents,” “helpful” medicines or even toys. 
While Pentex may create fomorior hire Black Spiral Dancers, when it comes down 
to it, most Pentex operatives ate human. Ifthey went directly up against the Garou, they 
would die, and they know it. Subtlety is key, hiding behind layer upon layer of corporate 
doublespeak and the jingle of the business world. Most Pentex employees have no idea 
what it is they really serve: They’re good men and women just trying to make enough 
money to support their families. They’re unaware of the Wyrm-taint on them and are 
struggling too hard to put food on the table to think too much about Gaia. If the Garou 
kill these unwitting dupes they shouldn’t be called heroes for it. 
Use Pentex when you want an enemy on a different front, who can’t be attacked 
and killed like a Blackspiral Danceroravampire. Pentex plans tend to build up slowly, 
so you don’t notice what’s happening until you’ve already fallen into their trap. Some 
of their products, such as King Beer, could slowly turn Garou into the monsters they 
claim to oppose. 
It is Pentex’s humanity that should make them as frightening as any Black Spiral 
Dancer - 
or more so. When a Black Spiral does terrible things to people, it makes 
sense (in an ugly sort of way); that’s what the monster was created to do. But when 
people hurt and corrupt each other, it should terrify. They weren’t created to destroy; 
they have no evil spirit inside of them driving them to violence. No matter the events 
that drove them to it, they chose to do what they did. 
mioisions 
The Project Coordination Division organizes the blatantly destructive activities 
of Pentex. The point ofhaving one coordinating office is to avoid duplication ofeffort, 
accidents involving friendly fire and market clashes between different Pentex compa- 
nies. If you’re shooting at each other or vying for the same market share, you aren’t 
getting asmuchdone. The PCDalso handles some aspects ofpublic relations-which 
is to say, it tries to make sure that Pentex stays out of the public eye. It particularly tries 
to make sure that no one takes note of the ties between Pentex’s subsidiary companies. 
The PCD also keeps track of the budgets of the various subsidiaries, making sure that 
the various books work out and that no one is trying to shortchange the mother 
company or its projects. 
The Acquisitions Division watches over Pentex subsidiaries and holding com- 
panies. It acquires new companies for purchase by Pentex. It also handles relations and 
contact with most outside groups, such as Sabbat vampires and the Black Spiral 
Dancers. The AQD includes in its purview the collection of information on anyone 
and everyone, including Pentex’s own employees. This collection involves everything 
from torture to kidnaping, terrorism to theft. 
282 


The Operations Division deals with day-to-day business, from mail delivew to 
requisitions for equipment to copier repair. This is the least supematurally-oriented 
division as most of the jobs involved are mindless and repetitive. It is also the most 
indispensable division, as without it nothing at all would run smoothly. The OPD also 
handles human resources - 
hiring, firing, employee training, etc. 
The Special Projects Division handles some very specialized research projects, 
including human and animal experimentation, fomori, taints, infestations, etc. This 
is by numbers the smallest division, but it has the largest budget. Project Iliad’s purpose 
is to create and train fomori, and they experiment endlessly to produce more effective 
fomori. Oddly enough, this division is run by a Black Spiral Dancer. Project Odyssey 
works on the development of psychic abilities. They also do their best to recruit, 
kidnap, or kill any psychics they locate. Most of the SPDs psychics develop problems 
with paranoia and delusions as their powers grow. 
Subsibiaries 
Endron started out as just another oil company, but now has influence (and spin- 
off companies) in a number of related fields - 
refineries, a research and development 
section, Endron Technological Solutions, trucking, mini-marts, gas stations. It 
possesses international influence and specializes in brutally and savagely ruining the 
earth - 
taking natural resources in as harsh a manner as possible. 
Magadon is a pharmaceutical and medical research company, and like Endron, 
it possesses an international reach. They dabble in advising and consulting to other 
companies, as well as pharmacy benefits plans and rehabilitation centers. They 
produce more than 600 different products for all areas of human and veterinary 
medicine, including reproductive health. Because the health industry is so closely 
watched, they do not corrupt as directly as most of Pentex’s other subsidiaries. 
King Breweries and Distilleries is a collection of seven companies, all centered 
around the production of alcoholic beverages, from beer to wine to hard liquor. King 
products do their work well - 
they’re a little more addictive than other drinks, 
produce nastier hangovers, make drunks a little meaner and act a little faster to ruin 
your liver. 
Avalon produces children’s toys, everything from stuffed animals and dolls to toy 
trains and tricycles. They donate toys designed to promote violence and ruin 
children’s self-esteem to orphanages. This is one of Pentex’s most terrible branches 
because it strikes quietly and directly at the most defenseless victims. 
Tellus produces ultra-violent computer games. Oddly they also produce educa- 
tional software provided at large discount to schools. Lifelike gore and death pepper 
their products, and the company ruthlessly drives its competition out of business. Like 
Avalon, they do their best to promote violence, lack of self-esteem and brutality, 
although their audience is teenagers. 
Black Dog Games produces roleplaying games that desensitize players to vio- 
lence and encourage people to lose themselves in fantasies rather than doing 
something to help the world. It also quietly encourages parents to blame their 
children’s problems on roleplaying games, rather than fixing the real problems. 
Mechanics 
Most Pentex employees are normal humans, although they might have some 
unusual Merits, Flaws and Backgrounds. Indeed, many are unaware of their “mission” 
283 


to destroy Gaia. Because of their proximity to various forms of Wyrm-taint (the 
cleaning supplies, the cafeteria food, the very building they work in), they will stink 
of the Wyrm, although not necessarily by their deliberate effort. 
For more information, see Book of the Wyrm, Second Edition or Subsidiaries: 
A Guide to Pentex. 
When a Bane possesses a human, a fomor is created. With few exceptions afomor 
can never be “freed” from his possession; the Bane isn’t released until the human dies. 
Most fomori are not affected by the Delirium; the more Wyrm-tainted the creature, 
the more immune he is. Pentex injects its fomori with a serum that eliminates all 
susceptibility to the Delirium. 
Pentex uses fomori as shock-troops. The more human they look, the easier it is 
for them to get close to Garou. They are not as powerful as Garou, but they can 
certainly be very dangerous, especially in any numbers or with equipment and backup 
from Pentex. Fomori may look and sound just like any other human until they breathe 
a cloud of poison in your face or vomit hydrochloric acid on your feet. They may be 
shambling monstrosities that barely show sign of their origins. They may be mindless 
shock-troops or cunning adversaries. 
Fomori reek ofdespair, Wyrm-taint and a distinct lack of humanity - 
each one, 
whether she realized it or not at the time, sold her soul in return for power. And that 
power certainly wasn’t what she was expecting. If the Wyrm wins, fomori are what the 
human race will become. Fomori are piteous, wretched creatures who would be better 
off dead, but they once were human. They once had all the ability and promise that 
humans can have, and the loss of that is certainly a tragedy. 
Character Creation 
Build fomori as normal humans, then give them powers and taints. For each 
power they take, they should also take one taint. Make sure the taints and powers are 
approximately equal in strength. If you give a fomor a particularly powerful taint or 
power, you might create two weaker taints or powers to balance it. Most fomori do not 
have more than two or three powers; some very powerful ones might have four or five. 
Powers are just that - 
odd powers fomori can use. Some examples appear below; 
others may be approximated with Gifts and spirit charms. Taints are the costs fomori 
pay for their powers, the mark that the Bane leaves on the fomor. 
Sample Powers 
Fomori powers may be fairly run-of-the-mill in nature: animal control, extra 
speed, unusual size, etc. Powers may represent unusual physical traits: extra limbs 
(allowing extra attacks), claws, fangs, horns, frog tongue, gaseous form, hide of the 
Wyrm (acts as armor), lashing tail, plasmic form, poison tumors, rat head, regenera- 
tion, shape-change, venomous bite, wall-walking, water-breathing or wings. 
Powers may be odd attack or defense mechanisms. Some fomori may go berserker. 
Others have barbs on their bodies. Some may breathe poisonous fumes or vomit acid 
on their opponents. Others have exoskeletons that protect them from attack. Other 
fomori may invade others’ minds, cause insanity, infect people with diseases at a touch, 
create spiderlike webs to entrap people in, change their coloration like a chameleon, 
284 


numb flesh at a touch, live for much longer than a human should, sense the presence 
of unnatural creatures nearby or secrete toxins on their skins. A fomor may distend its 
jaw to swallow objects and creatures up to the size of a small person. 
Sample Taints 
Taints may take all sorts of forms, but reflect the touch of the Wyrm upon the 
unfortunate Bane-ridden human. This may take the form of addictions, derangements 
or delusions. The fomor may attract any Banes (or other sorts of spirits) in an area. The 
fomor may be brainwashed, probably by Pentex, and thus be incredibly loyal. Its 
intelligence may drop to the level of a village idiot as the Wyrm destroys its brain (this 
happens to many fomori). 
The more visible the taint, or the more damage it does to the fomor’s body, the 
worse it is. The fomor’s body may slowly disintegrate or rot - 
this is clearly a strong 
taint as it makes the fomor obvious to all who see it and gives it a limited life-span. The 
fomor may be susceptible to all sorts of infections. Its mobility may be limited in some 
way - 
perhaps its legs have lost some of their strength and structure and it must crawl 
to get around. It may develop severe allergies to odd substances, or it may look very 
ugly. Worms may inhabit its body. The fomor may simply give people the creeps. 
For more information, see Book of the Wyrm, Second Edition. 
285 


’ Inbex 
A 
Abilities 
Specializations 78 
Specializtions 78 
Adoption 37 
Ananasi 277 
Archetypes 66 
Attributes 72 
Auspice 68 
w 
Backgrounds 87 
Bastet 271 
Battle Scars 191 
Black Furies 38 
Black Spiral Dancers 
279 
Bone Gnawers 40 
Breed 67 
Bunyip 22 
C 
Caems 198, 227 
Celestines 237 
Challenges 166 
Changelings 265 
Character Creation 65 
Chart 65 
Children of Gaia 42 
Combat 192 
Corax 270 
Cover 198 
Croatan 21 
Curse, The 186 
0 
Dark Umbra 232 
Deep Umbra 232 
Delirium, The 187 
Chart 189 
/
L
 
I 
Experience 171 
I 
Chart 172 
9 
Fetishes 257 
Fianna 44 
Flaws 92 
Fomori 285 
Forms 173 
Frenzy 185 
c 
Gafflings 238 
Gauntlet 225 
Get of Fenris 46 
Gifts 116 
Adaptation 145 
Assimilation 120 
Attunement 136 
Aura of Confidence 
Balor’s Gaze 138 
Banish Totem 148 
Beast Life 123 
Beast Speech 129 
Beastmind 142 
Blissful Ignorance 124 
Bloody Feast 149 
Blur of the Milky Eye 
Body Wrack 134 
Breath of the Wyld 133 
Bridge Walker 130 
Burrow 120 
Call Elemental 148 
Call of the Wyld 130 
Call of the Wym 130 
Call the Breeze 149 
Call the Cannibal Spirit 
Call the Hunt 139 
Call to Duty 128 
Calm 137 
Camouflage 149 
Catfeet 123 
Chaos Mechanics 142 
Chill of Early Frost 150 
Clap of Thunder 143 
Clenched Jaw 132 
Cocoon 119 
Command Spirit 126 
Control Complex 
143 
124 
150 
286 
Machine 142 
Control Simple 
Machine 141 
Cooking 135 
Coup de Grace 134 
Create Element 120 
Curse of Aeolus 134 
Curse of Hatred 120 
Curse of Lycaon 143 
Cutting Wind 149 
Cybersenses 141 
Dazzle 137 
Diagnostics 141 
Direct the Storm 144 
Disquiet 119 
Distractions 130 
Doppelganger 142 
Dreamspeak 130 
Elemental Favor 142 
Elemental Gift 123 
Empathy 146 
Exorcism 127 
Eyes of the Cat 121 
Eyes of the Cobra 13 1 
Fabric of the Mind 13 1 
Faerie Kin 139 
Faerie Light 138 
Falcon’s Grasp 146 
Falling Touch 132 
Fatal Flaw 143 
Fenris’ Bite 140 
Feral Lobotomy 127 
Fetish Doll 148 
Friend in Need 136 
Gaia’s Vengeance 144 
Gate of the Moon 145 
Geas 129 
Gift of the Porcupine 
121 
Gift of the Spriggan 
139 
Glib Tongue 138 
Gnaw 123 
Gorge 143 
Grasp the Beyond 127 
Great Leap 145 
Gremlins 125 
Halo of the Sun 138 
Halt the Coward’s Flight 
Hand of the Earth Lords 
140 


148 
Hare’s Leap 122 
Head Games 13 1 
Heart of Fury 132 
Heart of Ice 150 
Heightened Senses 122 
Hero’s Stand 140 
Horde of Valhalla 141 
Howl of the Banshee 
138 
Infest 136 
Inspiration 132 
Invisibility 148 
Invoke the Spirits of the 
Storm 150 
Jam Technology 1 18 
King of the Beasts 128 
Kiss of Helios 133 
Lambent Flame 146 
Learning Gifts 116 
Luna’s Armor 13 7 
Luna’s Avenger 147 
Luna’s Blessing 125 
Madness 121 
Malleable Spirit 127 
Master of Fire 118 
Mastery 146 
Mental Speech 12 1 
Mercy 137 
Messenger’s Fortitude 
Might of Thor 140 
Mindblock 147 
Mindspeak 130 
Mother’s Touch 126 
Name the Spirit 123 
Obedience 144 
Odious Aroma 135 
Open Moon Bridge 125 
OpenSeal 124 
Open Wounds 144 
Paralyzing Stare 144 
Part the Veil 120 
Paws of the Newborn 
Cub 147 
Persuasion 1 18 
Phantasm 139 
Power Surge 141 
Primal Anger 120 
Pulse of the Invisible 
145 
127 
Quicksand 143 
Razor Claws 132 
Reach the Umbra 146 
Reshape Object 119 
Resist Pain 128 
Resist Toxin 135 
Riot 136 
Roll Over 128 
Scent of Beyond 129 
Scent of Running Water 
Scent of Sight 122 
Scent of the True Form 
Scream of Gaia 140 
Seizing the Edge 144 
Sense Magic 147 
Sense of the Prey 124 
Sense Prey 122 
Sense Silver 132 
Sense the Unnatural 
Sense Wyrm 12 1 
Shadow Pack 145 
Shadows by the Firelight 
Shroud 147 
Sight From Beyond 126 
Silence 145 
Silver Claws 133 
Smell of Man 1 18 
124 
128 
122 
131 
Strength of Purpose 128 
Strength of the 
Dominator 144 
Strength of Will 133 
Strike the Air 138 
Summon Net-Spider 
Survivor 137 
Tagalong 135 
Taking the Forgotten 
The Living Wood 138 
Thieving Talons of the 
Thousand Forms 126 
Totem Gift I2 1 
Trackless Waste 143 
Trick Shot 141 
TrueFear 132 
Truth of Gaia 128 
Venom Blood 140 
Visage of Fenris 140 
Visceral Agony 134 
Wall of Granite 129 
Wasp Talons 134 
WeakArm 129 
Whelp Body 125 
Wisdom of the Ancient 
Ways 129 
Wither Limb 121 
Wolf at the Door 142 
142 
125 
Magpie 125 
Snarl of the Predator 
Song of Rage 131 
Wrath of Gaia 147 
140 
Glass Walkers 48 
Gnosis 109 
123 
Gurahl 273 
Song of the Great Beast 
Regaining 110 
Speak with Wind Spirits 
149 
H 
Speed Beyond Thought H~~~~~ 2 14 
Health 187 
Howling 216 
145 
Speed of Thought 145 
SDirit Drain 127 
Spirit Friend 137 
I 
Spirit of the Bird 147 
Spirit of the Fish 148 
Impergium 
l9 
Spirit of the Fray 132 
Incamae 237 
Spirit Speech 126 
Influence loo 
I 
Spirit Ward 119 
Staredown 119 
Stoking Fury’s Furnace 
Jagdings 23 7 
133 
287 


Kinfolk 260 
Klaives 257 
L 
Lexicon 30 
Litany 23 
m 
Mages 266 
Mass Combat (mob 
scene) 192 
Mental Traits 76 
Merits 91 
Merits and Flaws 92 
Mental 93 
Physical 92 
Social 95 
SuDernatural 97 
Metis Disfigurements 68 
Mokole 274 
Moots 27, 203 
H 
Nagah 279 
Naturae 249 
Near Umbra, The 229 
Negative Mental Traits 
Negative Physical Traits 
Negative Social Traits 
Negative Traits 168 
Nuwisha 269 
77 
73 
75 
I 
I 
Notoriety 235 
Overbidding 169 
Pack Totems 242 
Pentex 282 
Penumbra, The 227 
Periphery 232 
1 PhysicalTraits 72 
I 
Rage 108 
Rank 28, 180 
Ratkin 276 
RedTalons 50 
Renown 28, 176 
Chart 180 
Losing 179 
Scandal 179 
Renunciation 184 
Retests 169 
Rites 150 
Regaining 109 
Regaining 109 
Baptism of Fire 156 
162 
156 
Rite of the Winter Wolf 
Rite of Wounding 161 
Satire Rite 160 
Stone of Scorn 159 
The Badger’s Burrow 
The Great Hunt 162 
TheHunt 160 
The Long Vigil 162 
The Rending of the Veil 
Voice of the Jackal 159 
Rock-Paper-Scissors 167 
Rokea 278 
153 
160 
Gaia’s Vengeful Teeth s 
Gathering for the 
Sample Character 
MootRite 153 
Sept 26 
Rite of Accomplishment Shadow Lords 52 
161 
Silent Striders 54 
Rite of Becoming 157 
silver Fangs 56 
Rite of Binding 157 
simple T~~~~ 
169 
Rite of Caern Building 
Social T~~~~~ 
74 
160 
Departed 155 
Creation 111 
Spirits 235 
Stargazers 23 
Static Challenges 169 
154 
Rite of Cleansing 152 
Rite of Contrition 153 
Rite of Ostracism 159 
Rite of Reawakening 
Surprise 198 
Rite of Passage 161 
Stepping Sideways 229 
162 
c 
Rite of Renunciation 
Rite of Spirit Awaken- 
Rite of Summoning 158 
Rite of Talisman 
Rite of the Fetish 158 
Rite of the Opened 
Rite of the Opened 
153 
Talens 257 
ing 157 
Triat 18, 236 
Testing 167 
U 
Dedication 157 
Uktena 58 
Bridge 154 
Vampires 262 
Caern 153 
W 
Rite of the Questing 
Rite of the Shrouded 
Rite of the Totem 158 
Rite of the Winter Wind 
Weapons 193 
White Howlers 20 
Stone 157 
Wendigo 60 
Glen 154 
Willpower 110 
Behavior 218 
Wraiths 264 
288 
