Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


h 
AGE, TREACHERY 
AND MASTERCLASS 
DISCIPLINES... 
LET THE CHILDER OF THE 2- 
CENTURY 
SWAGGER WITH THEIR 
PETTY GAMES A N D  PARLOR TRICKS. T H E  TRUE POWER BELONGS TO THOSE 
W H O  HAVE SEEN CENTURIES GO PAST, NOT THESE SPOILED BRATS. SO 
TAKE ur THE MANTLE OF MILLFNNIA. 
SHOW THAT YOU BELONG WITH 
THE MASTERS OF THE NIGHT, NOT T H E  CHILDREN. 
BECAUSE 
IF YOU'RE NOT READY, SOMEONE ELSE W I L L  BE. 
... MAKE 
FOR ONE HELL 
OF A CHARACTER 
LAWS OF ELYSIUM GIVES YOU EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO PLAY A N  
ELDER CHARACTER I N  MIND'S EYE THEATRE. 
FROM TIPS ON 
ROLEPLAYING TO N E W  POWERS BELONGING ONLY TO THE ANCIENTS TO 
HELP FOR STORYTELLERS W H O  W A N T  TO INTEGRATE OLD AND POWERFUL 
CHARACTERS INTO THEIR GAMES, U W S O P  ELYSIUM HAS EVERYTHING 
YOU N E E D  T O  M A K E  YOUR CHRONICLE...ONE 
FOR T H E  AGES. 
NOT 
RECOMMENDED 
FOR 
MERE 
CHILDREN 
OF THE NIGHT. 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


by Jason Carl and Shane DeFreest 
" 
U 
II 
U 
u
u
u
u
 
U 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Credits 
Y 
Written by: Jason Carl and Shane DeFreest 
Additional writing by: Cynthia Summers, Richard E. Dansky and Jess Heinig 
Development by: Richard E. Dansky and Cynthia Summers 
Additional development by: Jess Heinig 
Editing by: Janice Sellers 
Additional editing by: Alison Sturms 
Previously published material has appeared in: Vampire: The Masquerade, Laws ofthe Night, 
Masquerade Second Edition, Masquerade Players Kit, Antagonists and Elysium: The Elder Wars 
Art Direction by: Lawrence Snelly 
Cover design, Layout and typesetting by: Katie McCaskill 
Photography by: Jonathan Rhea 
Models: Trevor Black, Chris Bell, Alissa Blitzer, Daniel Cameron, Shanti Faber, Charles J. 
Liggera, Stefani McClure, Wilson R. Nash, Mark Eric Stein, Riki Beth Stein, Raphael Sutton, 
Nukilwa "Nick" Taquilaya 11, Nancy Vinick, David M. Wilson. 
Costumer: Shanti Fader 
Playtesters: The Coterie of the Silent Voice Playtest Team: Marc "Spence" Spencer, Tori 
Mauslein, Geoff Hinkle, David Blackwell, Mykle McGovern, Tom Willis, Marisa Stanley, 
David Cole, Mike Metcalf, Shannon Cass, Pamela Lord, Mike Cumutt, Chris Arnold, Sally 
Arnold, Julian Dillard, Tim Dawson, Brian Gates, Misty Gates, James Holman, Trevor Hoyle, 
Stephanie Hoyle, Mike Chambers, Robert Hinkle and David Flannery. Whew! 
Special Thanks To: 
Mike Schatz and Stephe Herman for rules consultation, Issac Aden, Peter Bossio, Shanti 
Fader, Charles J. Liggera, Stefani McClure, Tara Marlowe, Maceo Marquez, Wilson R. Nash, 
Raphael Sutton and Nancy Vinick for modeling, Shanti Fade for costuming and Mark Scibelli 
for assisting in finding locations on The Shining Host. 
I 
I 
0 1998 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for 
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal 
use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the 
Dark Ages, World of Darkness and Mage the Ascension are registered trademarks of 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Trinity, Laws of Elysium, 
Elysium The Elder Wars, Laws of the Night, Antagonists, Masquerade Second Edition, 
Liber des Goules the Book of Ghouls, The Shining Host, Laws of the Wild and The Long 
Night are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, 
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a 
challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and 
supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader 
discretion is advised. 
ILPMNWHBtB. 
slvrr 128 
Eunnsraw, CL 3w21 
USA 
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher is 
E 1. 
~ I, 
D ,  ~ 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN USA. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A
A
A
A
d
A
 
i
i
i
 
'
I
 
i 
Table of Contents 
Just Visiting: A Cautionary Tale 
Introduction 
10 
4 
Character Creation 
16 
Disciplines and Rituals 
38 
PlayingAn Elder 
58 
Storytelling for Elders 
94 
Appendix: New Rules and Clarifications 144 
J 
e=- 
< 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I have been in Elysium for two hours, and no fewer than four ill- 
mannered Toreador brats have introduced themselves to me - 
without benefit of formal introduction. Each came up, smiled his or 
her most puppetlike smile, and then announced who he or she was - 
as if I knew or cared. Then each in turn got miffed when I refused to 
reciprocate or (more importantly) preen and wiggle to be introduced 
to an artist of such devastating beauty and importance. 
They fail to understand that I have no interest in who they are, 
what they do, or what favors they want from me in return for the grace 
of their presence. When you have watched over Rembrandt’s shoulder 
as he painted “The Night Watch,” the childish scribblings these 
moderns try to perpetrate as art upon an unsuspecting populace.. .let 
me simply say that they leave something to be desired. Such is the curse 
of America - 
there’s not a city on this continent older than I am, and 
these home-grown Kindred have no sense of style or of history. 
They’ve seen a century and think that makes them “elders.” Any one 
of them who’s outlived his mortal family feels entitled to whine about 
the agony of his endless existence. 
.
I
 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
,
 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I turn and wander through the museum. The collection is fairly 
impressive - 
the Pre-Raphaelite collection is displayed well, if a bit 
unimaginatively, and the more modern pieces are banished to side 
galleries. I must grant the Americans that. They may not have any 
class of their own, but they know enough to buy it when they can. 
A few more twists and turns, and I find myself in the room where 
the prince of this city holds his court. He is a tall man, with high 
cheekbones and a severe haircut, and I see him surrounded by his 
childer and advisors as he gravely nods at the tale of some ragamuffin 
neonate in an ill-fitting suit. There is nothing important going on 
here, just a shadow-show of the way in which princedom was formu- 
lated a half-millennium ago. 
Eventually, the neonate finishes, the prince waves his hand, and 
the hangers-on applaud politely at this display of princely justice. I 
have no idea what just went on, nor do I care. I am here on business. 
I step forward. “Your Majesty,” I say, knowing full well that this 
creature whom I must present myself to is at least three centuries 
younger than I. He looks up at me, a bit astonished at the “interrup- 
tion.” Various of his ghouls and retainers move to place themselves 
between him and myself, as if that would make a difference were I to 
wish His Majesty harm. 
“I wish to present myself to you, and request permission to dwell 
in your city, in accordance with our Traditions,” I hear myself saying 
by rote. I helped to draft those Traditions, once upon a time. 
“We appreciate your adherence to those Traditions,’’ is his re- 
sponse, and internally I cringe. Not another American who’s adopted 
and abused the royal “we,” please - 
it’s another case of aping form, not 
function. “Your name and business in our domain?” The toadies and 
harpies around him lean forward, anxious to be the first with tidbits of 
gossip about my arrival. One, I can see, has been so rude as to look at 
my aura - 
her eyes are wide in shock, and she’s taken a step or two 
backward. It’s a pity, really; she’s a pretty little thing, though suffering 
from that plague of fashion that says all of our kind must wear black lace 
in some form or other. 
I smile at her before I introduce myself, small acts of sadism being 
one of the few pleasures I still permit myself. “Of course, Your Majesty. 
I am called Alaric Montfleury, at least in these days, and my business 
in your city is strictly personal.” 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The prince leans forward and scrunches up his face in that way that 
seems to indicate deep concentration to the younger generations. 
“Montfleury? We seem to recall that name.” 
“Of course you do, Your Majesty. Your sire must have told you 
stories about learning the odd bit of statecraft from my humble self, in 
addition to his sire. Your grandsire and I spent several years together 
at MontsCgur, watching the Cathar experiment play itself out.” He’s 
not listening. I smile. He, and one by one his court after him, have 
realized exactly what stands in front of them. 
“Of course,’’ he finally stammers after a few seconds of silence. The 
woman, who was swifter on the uptake than the others, turns and 
hurries out of the room, her footfalls clattering in the emptiness. 
“I.. .we welcome you to our domain, trust that you will abide by the 
Traditions, and hope to have your company at future Elysiums. Until 
then.. . .” He lets the sentence trail off. I nod, and smile, and bow from 
the neck as I turn and walk out. 
It’s simple, really. My words were inconsequential - 
a reference 
to my age and history, and His Majesty’s place (inconsequential) 
relative to all that. What I really told him was, “I can take this city away 
from you any time I wish, and both you and I know it. I have no 
intention of doing so, mind you- 
if I wanted a city, it wouldn’t be this 
huddled collection of pollution-stained towers on the shores of a 
stinking and frozen lake. This is merely a visit, a brief stop as I head 
westward toward a city more worthy of my effort.” 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


As I turn the corner back toward the museum’s front entrance, I 
hear footsteps. It is the pretty young woman, of course. I expected as 
much. 
“What is your real purpose here?” she asks. She is very young and 
very new to the blood, and terribly serious. “There can’t be anything 
here that you want.” 
I shrug and look her up and down, then say, “Perhaps.” She blushes 
a bit, and I find myself vaguely disappointed in her distinct lack of self- 
control. “But really, I’m just passing through, and I wanted to make 
sure I followed the Traditions to the letter so as not to cause Prince 
Michael any undue stress.” It’s near enough to the absolute truth as to 
make no difference, not that she will ever believe me. 
She laughs humorlessly. “I’m sure your presence is a great comfort 
to him. In the meantime, is there anything I can do to make your stay 
here more pleasant?” Or more hief, I can hear her think. 
“NO, nothing at all,” I reply. “I thank you for your pains, though. 
Now if you’ll excuse me?” She curtsies and steps out of my way, and I 
continue on toward the door. Behind me the whispers are already 
starting, as I knew they would. 
He’s here to take the princedom.. . . He’s going to support Michael and 
wipe out any opposition.. . . He’s actually an archon here to cleanse the 
city.. . . There are other elders coming.. , . He’s a diabolist.. . . He mentioned 
the Cathars so he must be Sabbat.. . . He’s really Michael’s grandsire.. . . I 
didn’t see his reflection in the glass, so he must he h o m b r a  antitribu.. . . 
He’s going to kill us all.. . . 
As the doors swing shut behind me (no ghoul doormen, a bad sign, 
that) I laugh softly to myself. All the little vampires are now scram- 
bling to recalculate their petty plots, trying to imagine where I fit into 
their equations. All of the conspiracies will unwind themselves and 
recombine, murders will be committed, bodies will vanish, and gener- 
ally everything will go to hell in a handbasket because the nice neat 
little picture the local Cainites have painted for themselves has just 
been shattered. Parochialism never pays, not among our kind, and 
these children are about to learn that lesson the hard way. 
It shouldn’t take long for the firestorm to flare up and burn itself 
out. The survivors will be smarter, faster and more cunning than they 
are now, and the fat with which Michael’s surrounded himself will be 
trimmed away. I won’t be surprised if Michael himself goes. His 
grandsire will be disappointed, no doubt, but has grown inured to those 
kinds of losses over the centuries. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I could be mistaken, of course. Perhaps the conspirators will show 
some sense and relax. Perhaps they’ll keep my presence in perspective, 
or want to tippy-toe in my presence so as not to arouse the dread anger 
of the ancient vampire. Perhaps, for once, they’ll behave. 
I hear a scream behind me, and the sound of broken glass. Perhaps 
not, after all. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Do you know what it’s like to live forever? To watch history pass 
before you as a pageant of color and noise that fades to darkness and 
silence when you recall it? To fear the uncertain future promised by 
today’s youth, and to dream of past glories? To rendezvous with an old 
lover every few decades or to spend a century preparing to confront a 
rival for a crime that occurred two millennia ago? 
The elders of the Kindred not only know, they have lived it. For 
countless years they have existed, watching civilizations rise and fall, 
measuring their lifespans by eras of human history. Their power over 
the night and Kindred society is something that many vampires envy, 
but only the foolish would reach for it. Such is the privilege of 
surviving the centuries. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A
A
A
A
A
A
 
This book outlines elders for The Masquerade, what a player 
should be ready for, and what a Storyteller needs. From rules to 
character creation to storytelling, there is plenty here to use and abuse. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre 
We’ve all been playing Mind’s Eye Theatre in some way, long 
before we had a name for it. Instead of vampires, we were cowboys and 
Indians, or cops and robbers. In essence, it’s a game of make-believe, 
but one with very specific parameters of time and place. In that make- 
believe, players interact with each other as characters, assisted by a few 
rules to help them resolve conflicts. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre is about telling a story. The Storyteller 
creates the framework of the plot, then turns the players loose to watch 
them create a story of that plot. In between, there are shifting alliances, 
vagaries of circumstance, conflicts and consequences. It is not a story 
about a goal, but how that goal was reached. 
The Elders 
An elder is simply defined as a vampire who has managed to 
survive for at least 250 years. Such a short definition does not, 
however, cover the many requirements the elders demand before one 
is allowed to sit at their table. It takes strength, resources and cunning 
to arrive at the coveted title of “elder”; age is no longer the sole 
prerequisite. 
The Camarilla was founded on the will of the elders, and even now 
they continue as its strongest proponents and leaders. It is elders who 
make up the upper ranks of the Inner Circle and Justicars, and often 
some of the most powerful princes. Yet they are also the favored pawns 
of the Methuselahs in their unending Jyhad. In the Sabbat, the elders 
are the bishops and paladins, feared by the younger ranks, for only the 
strongest can survive to such age. Their fanaticism and callousness can 
give even the most experienced crusaders pause; no one crosses them 
once and lives to boast of it. Yet they are well aware that the Anarch 
Revolt was started because of elders who overstepped their bounds, 
and that their youth watch them now for the first signs that another 
revolt may be due. 
Elders are often thrown into a chronicle with little preparation, 
usually seen as just one more type of vampire at Elysium. They may 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


know a few more things, happen to be a little older, and have a few 
more nifty tricks up their black sleeves, but they’re still just like every 
other vampire in a chronicle, right? Yes and no. Elders do know a few 
more things that most vampires, they are a little older than the average 
vampire in a story, and they have plenty of interesting aces to play. 
What both players and Storytellers tend to forget is the impact that 
elders can have on a chronicle, and that elders have been around far 
too long to be classified as merely “old bloodsuckers.” 
An elder’s appearance can easily throw a chronicle into a tizzy, 
even if she doesn’t directly affect the action. Why is she here? What 
does she want? Does her presence bode good or ill? Her age and 
experience will draw many younger vampires into her sphere, hoping 
for favorable attention or assistance with a particular quandary. She 
will be in turn affected by her extremely long unlife, often unable to 
adapt to new technology, bearing long grudges and hatreds, and cursed 
as the only emotions left to her become hate, rage and bitterness. 
How to Use This Book 
Elder characters are not meant for new, inexperienced or imma- 
ture players. These creatures are centuries old, and require more 
thought and time than the average vampire. Their mere presence can 
unbalance a chronicle if they’re simply thrown in without thought, 
and immature players can run roughshod over the story and other 
players simply by dint of their enhanced abilities. This book is meant 
to prepare both Storytellers and would-be players for the challenges of 
elder characters. 
The Only Rules That Matter 
Behave yourself so everyone can enjoy the game. These are meant 
to keep players safe and non-players happy. If you’re playing an elder, 
you should be able to recite these like the Traditions. If you can’t 
remember either, you’re not ready for this. 
# I-It’s Only a Game 
If your character is embarrassed by a peer, a plot falls apart, a rival 
wins the day - 
it’s just a game. Don’t take things too seriously, as that 
will spoil not only your fun, but also the fun of everyone around you. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Leave the game behind when it ends. It’s one thing to hold an 
impromptu salon at a friend’s house to complain about the prince, but 
calling your fellow elders at four in the morning to discuss Gehenna 
takes things a little too far. Keep some perspective. 
Never actually have physical contact with another player. No 
matter how careful you are. Accidents happen. Use your imagination 
and the rules to cover physical logistics. 
Never climb, jump, run, leap or swing from anything during a 
game. Keep the action in “live action” low-key. If you can imagine 
yourself as a millennia-old bloodsucking creature of the night, then 
you can certainly imagine yourself to be running when you’re actually 
walking. 
#4-No weapons 
Fake or real weapons of any sort are forbidden. Even obviously silly 
toy weapons are not allowed. Such props could give people the wrong 
impression as to what you’re doing, and in the dark could conceivably 
be mistaken for the real thing. Swords and other sharp pointy things 
found in catalogs or at Renaissance fairs look real enough to worry 
bystanders, even if they are peace-bound. No matter how well a sword 
fits your character’s persona, leave the stuff at home. Use item cards to 
represent weapons instead. 
#5-No Drugs or Drinking 
This one is (or should be) a real no-brainer. Drugs and alcohol do 
not create peak performance. They reduce your ability to think and 
react, meaning that, among other things, your roleplaying ability will 
be impaired. Players impaired by drugs and alcohol are a danger to 
other players and to the game. There’s nothing wrong with playing a 
character who’s drunk or tripping from some tainted blood, but 
actually bringing such stuff to a game is in bad taste at worst, illegal at 
best. Don’t do it. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


#6=BeMindful of Others 
Remember, not everyone you see, or who sees you, will be playing 
the game. A game can be unnerving, even frightening, to passersby. Be 
considerate of nonplayers in your vicinity, and make sure that if you 
are in a public area, your gameplay actions are not going to alarm 
anyone. Stay alert to your surroundings, and be ready to drop character 
if nonplayersstart to take notice. Trying to explain to the local security 
that you’re not really hunting an unfortunate mortal as part of a 
midnight salon is an exercise in futility. In fact, if you can warn your 
local police force and merchants about what you’re doing before you 
start playing, they may be a bit more sympathetic to your presence. 
#7-The RulesAre FIexible 
Feel free to ignore or adjust any of the rules in this book if it will 
make your game better. We at White Wolf call this “The Golden 
Rule.” If some rule included in this book (beyond the ones listed here) 
doesn’t work for your troupe, change it. But be consistent and fair. 
Nobody likes rules that change every week nor “no-win” scenarios. If 
your troupe finds a new way to handle, say, a certain Tremere ritual 
that works better for you than the one in this book, go for it. The idea 
is to have fun. 
Not “Win.”Not “GO out and kill everyone else.”Just “Have fun.” 
The object of the game is not to win. In fact there are no rules for 
“winning.” The goal is to tell great stories, not to achieve superiority 
over the other players. The game is not about the goal, but about the 
journey to get to the goal and what happens along the way. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


w 
I 
Warning 
This is a quick-and-dirty guide to elder creation. We 
assume you are already familiar with the Mind’s Eye Theatre 
character creation process from The Masquerade Second 
Edition or Laws of the Night. If you aren’t, read through the 
process in either Masquerade Second Edition or Laws of the 
Night before you plunge in here. 
Any lists of Traits, Abilities, Disciplines, or Merits and 
Flaws not included here can be found in Laws of the Night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Steps of Character Creation 
Step One: Inspiration - 
Who are you? 
- 
Choose your clan 
- 
Choose your Nature and Demeanor 
Step Two: Attributes - 
What are your basic capabilities? 
- 
Prioritize Attributes (10/8/6) 
- 
Choose Traits 
Step Three: Advantages - 
What do you know? 
- 
Choose Abilities (8) 
- 
Choose Disciplines (6) 
- 
Choose Influences (6) 
Step Four: Last Touches - 
Fill in the details 
- 
Assign Blood Traits 
- 
Assign Willpower Traits 
-Choose Beastpath Traits (Sabbat members must choose a Path) 
- 
Record Status Traits 
- 
Choose Negative Traits 
Step Five: Spark of Life - 
Narrative descriptions and Extra 
Traits at Storyteller discretion 
Step One: Inspiration - Who are you? 
There’s a lot to consider when playing an elder, not the least of 
which is what makes your character something more than a walking, 
blood-drinking relic. Don’t think just yet about all the historic events 
she’s witnessed. Think about who she was before she was Embraced, 
how long she’s been a vampire, and how unlife has changed her over 
the years. Find something that you, the player, can identify with in 
your character. What’s so exciting about her that you would want to 
be her for the evening, much less a thousand years? 
Remember that many of your character’s attitudes may have crystallized 
when she was Embraced. No doubt she has changed little over the years, and 
she’ll be glad to tell you that such adherence to her beliefs has served her well 
over the centuries. Think about when your character was Embraced, how 
she felt about certain ideas, and how time has battered at those ideals. 
Lastly, think a little about what she was before her change and 
afterward. Let questions like these fuel the creative process and spark 
something new and different for you. Was she apeasant or a noble? How 
educated was she? Was the Embrace an unwelcome change, or did it 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


empower her? How did her sire treat her? Are there friendships and 
interests that she has maintained for all these years, and if so, how? Does 
she have a paramour she has a rendezvous with in Paris every five years, 
or has she given up on love since her mortal mate passed on? How many 
childer has she sired? Think of three events that marked turning points 
in her unlife (for better or worse), and how did she take the changes? 
The Name Game 
When creating an elder character, it will certainly 
behoove you in the long run to put a little thought into her 
name. After all, you’re going to be hearing it for quite a 
while, and an unwise choice will have you cringing when 
your name is called. 
Names like “Slash,” “Blade,” “Desire” and the like are 
fine for neonates, but the average vampire on the street 
isn’t likely to know the difference between “Blade, Brujah 
neonate” and “Blade, elder of Clan Toreador.” If such a 
thing would bother your elder considerably, then spare the 
other characters your continual wrath, and choose again. 
Those elders who can afford to keep single names are 
usually high enough in the power structure that it doesn’t 
much matter, or their names have certain attachments that 
make them impossible to mistake. Examples of these in- 
clude Rebekah (the Monitor of Chicago), Democritus (the 
Ventrue Justicar) or Critias (elder of Clan Brujah). 
Consider the following factors: How old is your charac- 
ter? What is her heritage? Where is she from? What were her 
parents’ names? Were there circumstances when it was 
necessary for her to change her name (such as coming 
through Ellis Island, or to avoid harassment)? 
Baby name books are excellent resources to find varia- 
tions on John and Mary (or Ian and Maire, or Jean and 
Marie). Look for those that list ethnic equivalents and the 
country of origin. For last names, the telephone book 
makes a good start if you have an idea of what you want. 
If you need help, some research may be in order. It looks 
a little silly to have your proud Italian Toreador announce 
himself as “Giovanni Jones.’’ 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


- 
Choose Your Clan 
Your choice of clan in many ways determines what sort of unlife your 
character can look forward to, and how he might spend his old age. It is 
possible to be Caitiff (that is, clanless), but such elders are ftequently 
scorned by their “clannish” brethren. See Laws of the Night, Chapter 
Two, for complete descriptions about the clans available. 
Choose Nature and Demeanor 
Your Nature is your character’s true self, often hidden under many 
protective layers. Your Demeanor is the face you show most often to 
the world, particularly when dealing with people. A character’s 
Nature and Demeanor can be wildly different, similar, or even the 
same, though few people (much less, elder vampires) are so open. A 
complete listing of possible Natures and Demeanors can be found in 
Laws of the Night. 
Step W o :  Attributes 
Attributes describe everything a character naturally is. Are you 
strong? Are you brave? Are you persuasive? Questions such as these are 
answered in your choice of Attributes. Attribute Traits use adjectives 
to describe a character in the same way that adjectives describe a 
character in a book. So the Nosferatu elder who rescued his favorite 
ghoul from a witch-hunter might be Energetic, Ferocious and Deter- 
mined, while the Ventrue who is currently attempting to outmaneuver 
a Tremere for control of a television station might be Clever, Cunning 
and Shrewd. 
Unlike a regular vampire character, elders’ categories fall as 10 
Primary, eight Secondary and six Tertiary. 
Step Three: Advantages 
Abilities 
These represent your abilities beyond the outline provided in 
Attributes. This is what you can do and what you’ve learned, rather 
than who you are. Abilities let you perform specialized tasks that are 
only possible with training - 
translating another language, under- 
standing an occult text, working a computer. Elder characters begin 
with eight Abilities. A full listing of these Traits can be found in Laws 
of the Night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines 
These are the vampiric powers available to all undead. Elders may 
begin with six Disciplines, but you must spend Negative Traits to take 
out-of-clan Disciplines (one per level of out-of-clan). Some Disci- 
plines may not be available, or may require special penalties. Check 
with your Storyteller before taking anything you’re not 100 percent 
certain about. 
Influences 
This reflects your elder’s control over mortal society. Over time, 
such control can grow to amazing proportions, making elders truly 
formidable opponents in the Jyhad, and one reason why they are 
frequently unopposed. Few are likely to interfere with someone who 
could quite possibly call heads of state and military leaders to assist her. 
How many Influences you begin with should be the purview of 
your Storyteller; six makes a good starting point. Long-time players 
being moved into the elder arena may start to purchase their Influ- 
ences from the lists given. The Influences listed here are from level six 
and up; lower levels may be found in Laws of the Night. 
Step FORE LastTouches 
Fill in the last details, including Status, generation and Will- 
power. 
Oeneration 
Your Storyteller will quite possibly have a target generation in 
mind for your character, and may request that you not buy down your 
generation with Negative Traits. Elders generally are of the eighth 
generation, although the Pretenders attempt to presume eldership at 
ninth. 
Status 
It is safe to assume that most elders have at least two Status Traits: 
Acknowledged and Respected to start with. Any more will be a matter 
for your Storyteller to decide. 
Willpower and Blood Traits 
See Laws of the Night for the starting number of Willpower and 
Blood Traits available to your generation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Beast/Path Traits 
Y 
It is anunfortunate fact that as a vampire ages, his grip on the Beast 
can grow weaker. Many find themselves struggling nightly to maintain 
the facade of order both in their surroundings and in their souls. 
Whether Sabbat or Camarilla, a vampire who’s a ravening monster is 
a danger to those around her as well as to herself. At five Beast Traits, 
the character descends into permanent frenzy, and will most likely be 
put down like a rabid animal. 
Elder characters begin with two Beast/Path Traits. You may take 
another Beast Trait for two Negative Traits, but remember that it will 
now take only two more Beast Traits to fall into the final frenzy. 
Step Five: Spark of Life 
Like any other vampire character, your elder needs to be fully 
described, putting a little flesh on the bare bones of Traits and 
Influences. Otherwise, your character is just a cardboard cut-out with 
some nifty tricks. 
Background Story - 
So, what have you been up to all these 
years? When was your character Embraced, and what did she do before 
then? What events in history has she witnessed, and how did they 
affect her? 
Motivations - 
Something must be driving her through these 
last days. What is it? Is she attempting to escape the machinations of 
a Methuselah? Is she searching for Golconda? Does she thirst for 
revenge against the Kindred who slew her childer? Whether it’s hate, 
revenge, fear or hope, your elder’s prime motivation will color her 
actions and often reflect on the game around you. 
Appearance- Has she chosen to ignore the fashion parade after 
so many decades, and prefers simple gowns reflective of medieval 
times? Does he still sport the muttonchops he wore when he rode at 
General Lee’s side? Look for props and costuming that reflect your 
character’s age and outlook as well as her Traits. 
Equipment -Talk with a Storyteller about the kinds of things 
you’re likely to start play with. She is, of course, perfectly within her 
rights to disallow LAW rockets, tanks or original Rembrandts. 
Quirks -Everyone 
has little tricks and peccadilloes that make 
him unique, such as a favorite curse word, a method of donning a hat 
or the way he relieves stress. In the case of elders, these quirks deepen 
22 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
t
l
u
u
u
u
u
 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


over time, and may be leftover habits from other times. When you 
consider your quirks, think about how and why you started doing such 
things. If your elder refuses to exit a car until she’s looked in the 
rearview mirror for an all-clear, consider that she was perhaps attacked 
when she got out of a carriage one night in the late 18th century, and 
she has never been careless about such since. Think about habits she 
might have picked up over the years, and why. Such quirks can be good 
roleplaying aids, and they can establish character more effectively 
than a name tag and a few challenges. 
Sample Character Creation 
Michael has been playing a vampire in MET for some time, and 
has come a long way as a roleplayer since those first days as a neonate. 
His Storyteller, Laura, thinks he’s ready for a challenge and is mature 
enough to handle the responsibility - 
she offers him the role of an 
elder. All she asks is that he keep in mind the sort ofgame she’s running 
when he creates the character. Michael asks Laura if there’s anything 
in particular she’s looking for in this elder. While she can’t tell him 
everything she has planned (it would ruin the surprise), she does 
request that the character be a sort who could serve in an advisory 
capacity and occasionally do some “Deep Throat” duty. With a clear 
goal before him, Michael starts working on fleshing out some early 
skeletal ideas. 
Laura’s game is primarily Camarilla-based with a number of 
mortals. The mood is largely one of mystery and conspiracy, with an 
X-Files sort of theme. Several plots are in the works, but two storylines 
have begun to stagnate. The presence of an elder would hopefully 
jump-start them again. A Sabbat elder would shake things up too 
much, and Laura doesn’t want to take her chronicle down that path. 
Michael debates an independent clan, but he decides otherwise when 
he can’t find areason why such acharacter would appear in a Camarilla 
town. Finally, he chooses to make his elder a Ventrue, a clan he’s never 
played before. He decides that the elder was a student of the great 
philosophers and was Embraced during the Golden Age of Greece by 
a Cainite who wanted to tweak a rival. Over the years, the character 
has lived many lives and used many names; currently he goes by the 
name “Alexander Dent.” 
Alexander is, as he has always been, a seeker of wisdom, never 
satisfied with a single easy answer. He debates and deliberates on the 
.
-
r
 
u 
u 
u 
Il 
u 
u 
u 
II 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
23 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


eternal questions of life, no matter what the era, and Michael thinks 
that Alexander’s Nature is suggestive of a Visionary. Over the years, 
however, Alexander has learned that those who question are not 
always welcome, particularly in Cainite society, and he’s learned the 
truth behind “Go along to get along.” Michael decides that Alexander 
poses as a Traditionalist to keep princes and other nosy folks out of his 
personal business. 
Michael prioritizes Alexander’s Attributes as Mental, Physical 
and Social, and chooses Traits that would reflect someone who grew 
up in the city-state of Athens under the expectations of the times. For 
Alexander’s Mental Traits, Michael chooses Refictive, Wise, Insight- 
ful, Knowledgeable and Observant, all Traits that would seem sensible 
for one who spent most of his years in thought and in various schools 
of philosophy. He decides Rational and Calm are Traits the Ventrue 
would have cultivated in Alexander. Realizing that there will be 
plenty of Mental Challenges, Michael takes Disciplined, Attentive and 
Shrewd, just in case someone gets an idea that Alexander’s introspec- 
tion means he’s a pushover. 
Next come Physical Traits. Alexander would have been expected 
to maintain physical fitness along with mental fitness, so Michael 
considers the Traits that would reflect someone who’s fit, but not 
necessarily “buff.” He eventually chooses Athletic x2, Dexterous x2, 
Energetic x2, Resilient and Tenacious. Michael decides that Alexander 
did all right for the times, but just all right. 
Lastly come Social Traits. Alexander’s been something of a loner 
(philosophical thinking does tend to be a one-person sport), and 
Michael thinks that Alex knows how to get along with people, but he 
isn’t a glad-hander like many in his clan. Michael decides that 
Alexander is quite Persuasive and Eloquent from all the decades of 
debate. Alexander is also Dignified and Commanding when he needs to 
be and is Friendly with those he meets. After choosing what immedi- 
ately sprang to mind, Michael isn’t sure what else to take. He asks 
Laura for suggestions, and she looks over his choices so far. After 
hearing Alexander’s sketchy story, she asks Michael if Alex would be 
the sort to pursue Golconda. Michael agrees, and decides to add 
Compassionate; Alex is slowly learning the ways of Golconda, and this 
indicates he has taken the first steps. 
Now come Abilities. While it might be rare for a Ventrue to be 
without Finance, Michael can’t imagine how a Greek philosophy 
student would have it. Michael thinks more about what Alex has 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


been doing all this time, and most recently, and decides that for the 
past five years Alex has been teaching evening Philosophy courses at 
a university. Laura approves the idea, seeing it as the basis for some 
interesting story hooks. Michael chooses Performance: Debate x2, 
then Performance: Lecturing (to make sure Alex’s students don’t fall 
asleep in class). He adds Subterfuge and Kindred Lore (Alex has been 
around long enough to learn something of the Sabbat and other 
vampires). Like it or not, Alex will be considered a leader among the 
youth of the clan, so Michael takes Leadership. Michael’s fairly 
certain that Alex is fluent in several languages, but he can only afford 
two levels of Linguistics - 
his native Greek and Latin, which are 
both necessary for Classical studies. 
For Disciplines, Michael decides that Alex would be far more 
likely to use Presence over Dominate, and buys Presence up through 
Majesty. He puts the last two levels in Fortitude. 
Now it’s time to buy Influences. As Alexander takes such a high 
interest in the educational system and spends so much time there, 
Michael takes four levels of University Influence. Michael adds a level 
of High Society, to reflect the various mortal circles Alex travels in as 
a professor. Lastly, unable to resist the pull, he takes a level of Finance. 
Because Alex is Ventrue as well, he automatically begins with a 
permanent Finance Influence Trait. Michael figures you just can’t get 
away from some things, and decides that the Finance Influences were 
gifts from Alex’s sire. 
Laura requests that Alex go no higher than seventh generation. 
For now, he starts at eighth, but Michael thinks that someone as old 
as Alex should be at least a little lower - 
something to consider when 
Negative Traits are bought. He records Alex’s Blood Traits and 
starting Willpower for an eighth-generation vampire. As Alex is not 
yet well-known in the city, his beginning Status Traits are Acknowl- 
edged and Respected. 
As Alex is an elder, he begins with two Beast Traits. Michael 
chooses Vigilante and Item (crucifix). Alexander didn’t handle the 
coming of Christianity too well, and the Inquisition left him with 
many bad memories. 
Michael takes two Negative Traits, Oblivious (when Alex gets 
busy with a problem, he forgets to pay attention around him) and 
Impatient (particularly with dull students). These he uses to buy up 
Alex’s generation to seventh, and he records Alex’s Blood (9) and 
Willpower Traits (3). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Satisfied, Michael passes his sheet to Laura. She looks it over, 
and decides that some areas are a little sparse. She gives him a few 
extra Traits, and suggests that he take at least one level of Dominate 
and one level of Occult Ability. Alexander is going to be in the thick 
of a few things, and Laura wants him to be ready to come out 
swinging. Michael takes the Basic levels of Dominate, a single Occult 
and throws the last three points into Traits - 
one Physical (Quick), 
one Social (Magnetic) and one Mental (Observant). Laura approves 
Alexander’s final incarnation, and Michael sits down to consider the 
rest of Alex’s long story before joining play. 
Influence 
Obviously, these are much more powerful than the levels given in 
Laws of the Night. The Storyteller should feel free to disallow these 
if they would unbalance a game. 
Bureaucracy 
cost 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Church 
cost 
8 
9 
10 
Finance 
cost 
7 
Desired Effect 
Control over state bureaucrats (legislator, judge, etc.). 
Utilize the resources of internal federal agencies -FBI, 
DEA, ATF, INS, etc. 
Affect foreign policy; utilize the resources of the CIA; 
access the Secret Service. 
You can affect change in national legislature and judiciary; 
you keep the president’s number in your Rolodex. 
Desired Effect 
You control a nationally known evangelist or organization 
of comparable stature. 
You have access to the Society of Leopold or other 
Church-sponsored hunter groups; you have influence 
in a monastic order. 
You have sway in a major sect. 
Desired Effect 
You own many businesses locally, and contribute greatly 
to the local economy. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


8 
9 
10 
Health 
cost 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
You can affect the financial stability of other cities 
within 50 miles of your own. 
You have the wealth and backing of amajor corporation/ 
Fortune 500 company; you own several businesses; Wall 
Street jumps when you sneeze. 
You number among the richest people in the world. 
Desired Effect 
You control an outpatient clinic/blood bank. 
You control a major metropolitan hospital. 
Access and manipulate most all local goings-on in the 
medical community. 
Obtain national funding, drug research and cutting-edge 
medical information. 
Discuss matters with the Surgeon General; influence in 
the World Health Organization. 
High Society 
Influence and notoriety in the mortal world at this level can be as 
much a curse as it is a blessing. It can border on a major breach of the 
Masquerade. 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
6 
Major local celebrity status. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
International celebrity status. 
The local social scene is completely malleable to your whims. 
National celebrity status -you often get calls from major 
talk shows. 
You’re on guest lists across the country; part of the social 
scene of several cities. 
Industry 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
7 
Organize major strikes. 
8 
9 
10 
Control at least one national union. 
Arrange major “accidents,”suchaschemical 
leaksand factory 
fires; orchestrate a large-scale wakeout or factory recall. 
Oil spills, chemical accidents, factory shutdowns - 
all in 
a night’s work. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Legal 
cost 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Media 
cost 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Occult 
cost 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Police 
cost 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Desired Effect 
Control a city or circuit judge; can circumvent city court 
system. 
Control a law firm; can circumvent state court system. 
Oversee the parole board; arrange a governor’s pardon; 
speed up a scheduled execution; can circumvent circuit 
court or federal court; may have sealed records opened. 
Can have cases presented in the Supreme Court; access 
to federal court documents. 
You can arrange a presidential pardon. 
Desired Effect 
Kill small local articles or reports completely. 
Broadcast fake stories (regionally). 
Control a major metropolitan newspaper; have an editorial 
position. 
Carry a White House press pass. 
Manipulate the content of a nationally read magazine. 
Broadcast fake stories (nationally); Rupert Murdoch, 
Ted Turner and you. 
Desired Effect 
Research Basic Ritual from other sect. 
Research Intermediate Ritual from other sect; access a 
partial copy of The Book of Nod. 
Research Advanced Ritual from other sect. 
Access a near-complete version of The Book of Nod. 
Desired Effect 
Instigate SWAT raids. 
Get people extradited. 
Have police chiefs replaced. 
Complete control of the city police. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Politics 
cost 
9 
10 
Street 
cost 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Desired Effect 
Get your candidate in a major office; control Senate 
subcommittees. 
You have people inside the Oval Office or the UN; influence 
diplomatic relations; can acquire diplomatic immunity. 
Desired Effect 
Access large quantities of contraband. 
Acquire automatic weapons. 
Control all gang activity in the city. 
Nothing happens on the street without you knowing 
about it. 
You drew up the blueprints for the L.A. riots. 
Transportation 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
8 
9 
10 
Can travel nationally without problems. 
Shut down major airlines or cause serious delays for other 
travelers. 
Travel internationally with almost no degree of risk. 
Underworld 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
6 
Control local Mafia family. 
7 
Control a major money laundering operation ($3,000), 
drug cartel, pornography empire. 
8 
Have a word in most crime syndicates across the country. 
9 
Arrange high-level political assassinations. 
10 
Some international terrorists are under your control. 
University 
Cost 
Desired Effect 
7 
Falsify a post-graduate degree. 
8 
9 
10 
Have faculty fired; assure tenure. 
Close down school districts; affect curriculum statewide. 
Complete control of curriculum, faculty and all records; 
falsify doctorate; seat on the Board of Regents. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Acquired Tastes 
Even if they don’t voice the concern, every elder 
fears the day when he must drink vampire blood to 
survive. While some diablenists may have begun such as 
a hobby, needing it to survive is much different than 
“recreational use.” 
Such degeneration is often tied to the loss of Human- 
ity and to the changes wrought by age, but not always. 
Some millennia-old Kindred still drink (and prefer) mor- 
tal blood, while some relatively young vampires cannot 
drink from anyone but mortals. Storytellers should make 
such a change a story element, not one that automatically 
takes over in a single night. Of course, if the Storyteller 
fears wholesale slaughter if an elder develops a thirst for 
that vintage one can neither buy nor raise, she is perfectly 
within her rights to disallow it. 
Below is a set of warning signs that a character may be 
sliding into cannibalism. If she meets several of these 
conditions, chances are that she will start with the occa- 
sional “nip off the top” until she can no longer drink 
anything but vampire blood. 
Diablerist 
Sire addicted to Kindred blood 
Three or more Beast Traits 
Sire is/was a diablerist 
Active for more than 500 years 
Has a Derangement related to blood and/or feeding 
Has sired a large number of childer (five or more) 
Has Blood Bound a number of younger vampires - 
At odds with one’s own sire 
Has almost no mortal Allies, friends or other ties 
Has any Nature but Architect, Caregiver, Cavalier or 
especially one’s own childer 
Martyr 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-.- 
What follows are Merits and Flaws particularly suited to an elder 
chronicle and elder characters. Be sure to work with your Storyteller 
when you choose your Merits and Flaws, as some may interfere with the 
story or unbalance the game. 
Merits and Flaws particularly suited for elders 
Psychological - 
Code of Honor, Compulsion, Dark Secret, Driving 
Goal, Higher Purpose, Intolerance, Nightmares, Phobia, Prey Exclusion, 
Short Fuse, Vengeance 
Mental - 
Calm Heart, Deep Sleeper, Iron Will 
Aptitudes - 
Illiterate, Jack of All Trades 
Supernatural - 
Can’t Cross Running Water, Cursed, Danger Sense, 
Dark Fate, Destiny, Faerie Afinity , Haunted, Light Sensitive, Luck, Magic 
Resistance, Magic Susceptibility, Medium, Occult Library , Repelled by 
Crosses, Repulsed by Garlic, Spirit Mentor, True Faith, Unbondabk 
Kindred Ties -Clan Enmity, Clan Friendship, Diabolic Sire, Enemy, 
Infamous Sire, Insane Sire, Notm’ety , Pawn, Prestigious Sire, Reputation 
Physical -Allergic 
(particularly to plastic, chemicals and other 
“modem” creations), Disfigured, Efficient Digestion, Misplaced Heart, 
Monstrous, Permanent Wound, Selective Digestion 
New Merits and Flaws 
Holdings ( 1-5 Trait Merit) 
You own a number of properties that have been in your 
possession for years. Most, if not all, have been modified to provide 
you with escape routes, shelter from the day, and protection. 
Examples include castles, museums, apartment complexes, cathe- 
drals or even a series of underground caverns. For each point taken, 
you have two properties. 
Enlightened (1-7 Trait Merit) 
You have taken the first steps on the steep and thorny path of 
Golconda. While achievement of this state is a long way off, you 
understand the proper approach and spend much time in pursuit of this 
goal. A one-Trait Merit would mean that you know what the word 
means, and perhaps you are a beginner. Seven Traits would indicate 
that you have spent the better part of your existence in pursuit of 
Golconda, and that you are knowledgeable enough to teach your 
brethren the first lessons. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


One or more Kindred owe you a boon. You granted them some form of 
assistance in the past (whether a hundred years ago, or just last week), but 
now they owe you. This will grant you an edge in dealing with them. Should 
you need aid, you can call the favors due, but you won’t want to let these go 
lightly. Players should work with their Storytellers regarding the number of 
points in this Merit, and the circumstances of how these boons came to be. 
Factors in determining this should include the number and magnitude of the 
debts owed, and the positions of the Kindred who owe them. 
Loyal Childe (3 Trait Merit) 
Your childe’s loyalty goes beyond the Blood Bond, borne of genuine 
admiration and affection. She would do almost anything to help you. 
Because her loyalty is so true, you can trust her like no other Kindred. 
Rest assured that she would give no rest to any who harmed you, and you 
would feel her loss as much as a stake through your own heart. 
Paramour (3-5 Trait Merit) 
You have had a long-term relationship (75-year minimum) with 
another Kindred. While you may have had disagreements over the years, 
you are generally loyal to each other. You both know agreat deal about each 
other, and keep few secrets from one another. You have come to each other’s 
aid several times, and the thought of losing h i d e r  is something you would 
rather not consider. The cost of this Merit determines your lover’s power and 
position in vampire society (three for an ancilla, four for an elder of equal 
stature, and five for a more powerful elder). 
Poverty (1 Trait Flaw) 
You are poor for an elder vampire. Maybe you just never saved 
anything over the years, maybe you lost your wealth in some catastro- 
phe and have never recovered, or maybe you’ve given it away to 
whatever causes you patronize. You may not acquire any cash or other 
material wealth from your Influences. 
Jilted Paramour ( 1-3 Trait Flaw) 
You had a long-term affair (minimum of 50 years) with another 
Kindred. While the relationship was a pleasant diversion while it lasted, 
you eventually grew weary of your paramour and broke things off. 
Unfortunately, your paramour did not take this well and developed a 
strong resentment toward you. Or perhaps you were the jiltedone, tossed 
aside like an unwanted doll by a bored child. You both know many of 
eachother’s secrets, and this has helped to keep things in a stalemate for 
now, but your ex- may interfere in your future affairs at a crucial time. 
The cost of this Flaw depends on the relative power and position of your 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ex-lover in Kindred society - 
one Trait for an ancilla, two for an elder 
of equal standing to you, and three for someone of higher standing. 
Vainglorious ( 1-3 Trait Flaw) 
You are the best, most beautiful, wisest, noblest, etc. Kindred that you 
know of, and you want to make sure that everyone knows it. You know that 
you deserve any praise you receive, since it is obvious the speaker 
recognizes quality when he sees it. You are especially fond of those who 
realize their lesser standing in comparison to your obvious superiority, and 
you tend to view those who speak well of you as more deserving and 
intelligent than most. Because of your arrogance, you must bid one to three 
Traits more in a Social Challenge to resist attempts to manipulate you 
through flattery. The modifier is determined by the rating in this Flaw. 
Death Wish (1-5 Trait Flaw) 
You have an unconscious wish for Final Death. The endless politicking 
and nightly hunts, the pain of centuries of living, your own immense 
knowledgeandmemory-all 
havetakentheirtollonyou. While youwould 
never deliberately harm yourself, you do tend to walk into dangerous 
situations and hinder yourself at the most awkward times. At any time 
during a session, the Storyteller may ask you to retest a challenge, with the 
less successful check being the actual result of your challenge. She may do 
this the number of times equal to the number of Traits you have in this Flaw. 
Prestation Debt ( 1-5 Trait Flaw) 
You currently owe a boon to one or more Kindred. You may have 
incurred this debt during the past, or just last week, but it’s still 
outstanding to the Kindred in question. As such, she has gained some 
Status over you, which puts you at some disadvantage when dealing with 
her. At some point, she will call for the payment, and it could be a 
relatively minor service or something very uncomfortable for you. 
Thenumberoffraits investedinthisflawmustbedeterminedbetween 
player and Storyteller. The number of debts, their magnitude and to whom 
they are owed determine the rating of this Flaw. The exact nature of how 
and to whom these debts were incurred should be worked out before play. 
Bastard Childe (2 Trait Flaw) 
You have sired one or more childer without permission from the 
local prince or the Justicar. By Kindred law, you and your childe could 
be Blood Hunted if your secret is discovered. This Flaw is cumulative, 
and must be taken once per bastard sired. 
Vengeful Childe (2 Trait Flaw) 
You have sired a childe who has grown to despise you. She actively 
hinders your dealings with other Kindred and works to your detriment. 
.
-
7
 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
II 
11 
u 
u 
u 
33 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


- 
a chance, and you’re probably right. 
Secret Diablerist (2 Trait Flaw) 
You have committed diablerie at least once to achieve your 
current power, but so far no one knows your secret. Should your secret 
be learned, the other elders might well shun you, refuse you aid or turn 
against you, perhaps even calling the Blood Hunt. Do your utmost to 
keep this information secret. If your secret ever becomes known, you 
receive a three-Trait penalty on any Social Challenge with the elder 
who knows. 
Recently Arisen (3 Trait Flaw) 
You have been in torpor until recently. The world has left you 
behind in the rush of progress, and everything seems to have changed 
immensely while you slept. You experience culture shock on a nightly 
basis, and you have great difficulty making your way around this 
strange new society. Thankfully, Kindred society has not changed too 
much; mortal society is pure gibberish to you. You receive a two-Trait 
penalty when attempting to understand modern technology or soci- 
ety, and on social interactions with everyone but elder Kindred. 
Matricidepatricide (4 Trait Flaw) 
You diablerized your own sire, one of the foulest crimes a vampire 
can commit. If ever this is discovered, you will almost certainly be left 
out for the sun. You’ve become an easy target for blackmail and must 
always be alert to any sign of other Kindred sniffing about for informa- 
tion regarding your sire’s unusual “disappearance.” 
Known Diablerist (5 Trait Flaw) 
You have committed diablerie at least once to achieve your power. 
Maybe it was during a Blood Hunt; maybe you simply got tired of waiting. 
While not every elder Kindred knows this, there are a few of note who 
do know, and you’re sure they are spreading the word back through the 
ranks. At the very least, you would be shunned. At worst, you could be 
subject to the Blood Hunt, in spite of your status. Certain elders will 
probably use the information to blackmail you. You receive a three-Trait 
penalty on any Social Challenge with an elder who knows your secret. 
Trait Maximums 
As monstrous in power as elder characters may grow, even they 
have their limits. See Laws of the Night for the Trait maximums of 
each generation. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I Age of Consideration 
If you’ve been playing a vampire of elder years in your chronicle, 
maybe your interest got squicked while you were reading this, and 
you suddenly wanted to jump in on the elder game as well. After all, 
your character’s old enough, and there are a lot of nifty things you’d 
love to acquire, not to mention getting the chance to kick a little 
vampiric tail. There’s a certain Nosferatu character who’s been 
getting too big for his britches in your opinion, and you could easily 
wipe the sewers with him - 
if you were an elder. 
Before you start planning too much, stop and think. If you’ve 
been playing this character for some time, a number of people are 
going to be wondering why you’ve hidden your power and pre- 
tended to be so small all this time. Be assured that you’ll be taken 
for something unpleasant (Infemalist, diablerist, Antediluvian 
pawn) if you suddenly “bulk up.’’ And your powerful presence will 
certainly tum the game on its ear, and probably not for the better. 
Talk it over with your Storyteller and listen to her con- 
cerns. If she agrees, work with her to create a plausible in-game 
reason why you’ve suddenly been elevated. Your new elder may 
get moved offstage to avoid unbalancing the game, but she 
might still be part of the action, if only in an advisory capacity. 
If the Storyteller decides not to bring an elder in, abide by her 
decision, and understand that it’s for the good of the game. 
Golconda 
Few vampires are certain what Golconda means, how it can be 
achieved, or who can show them the way. Most consider it to be a 
dream, a fairy tale made up long ago by some poor benighted vampire 
who was moaning about the loss of his “human” side. The Sabbat 
actively denounce it as a lie perpetrated by the elders of the Camarilla, 
while most Camarilla elders dismiss it as the ravings of some forgotten 
lunatic. Behind the whispers and sneers, though, huddles a secret cabal 
(larger than some might think) that actively works to understand the 
mystery and hopefully achieve it. The mysterious Inconnu are all 
rumored to either be seeking Golconda or have already found it. 
Golconda is said to be a mystical state of being in which the Beast 
and the Man no longer war with each other. The vampire has come to 
accept and master his Beast as a part of his soul no different than the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Man, and both are considered halves of the whole. Some claim that it 
grants a portion of one’s humanity back, while others believe that it 
allows a vampire to live without the all-consuming need for blood. 
A number of elder vampires take up the search when they grow 
weary of the machinations of their peers and of the endless nightly 
games. They seek out teachers wherever they may be found, perhaps 
one of the Salubri, or a teacher may come to them if they prove 
sufficiently ready for the task. What comprises the task is another 
matter. Some believe that one must give up feeding on mortals 
altogether, abandon the Jyhad, live one’s unlife as an aescetic. What 
is known is that the culmination of the years of work is known as the 
Suspire, in which a vampire literally descends into the depths of her 
own soul for her “long dark night.” Not everyone survives this final 
test, and not everyone who survives necessarily finds what they seek. 
Some may survive, but without achieving Golconda, making these the 
most embittered souls against the idea. 
Storytellers wishing to add the search for Golconda into their 
chronicles should be prepared for a long haul. This is not a something 
to be dashed off in a month or even a year. A vampire can search for 
literally centuries for a few clues that lead to a teacher, and that is no 
guarantee that the teacher will accept her. A storyteller considering a 
Golconda chronicle needs to sit down and consider the framework of the 
story - 
what will be necessary for the seeker to find a teacher, what will 
it take for the teacher to accept the seeker, what will the seeker need to 
consider in her quest? How will this fit in with (or not) with your current 
plot and storylines? Will your elder’s choice to give up the Jyhad send the 
current game into a tailspin? Plan out the necessary goals carefully, and 
know when to prod encouragingly and when to back off. 
Likewise, a player needs to be made aware that for her character 
to begin seeking Golconda will be a most exacting goal to play over 
time, and that she can’t just quit midstream because things aren’t 
progressing as fast as she thinks they should be, or that by giving up 
drinking from mortals she should automatically be catapulted to her 
goal. A visit from an Inconnu or other seeker describing the rigors 
necessary to the character may be helpful to make the elder (and 
player) understand exactly what she is jumping into. 
A search for Golconda need not necessarily move the character 
completely offstage. Golconda is denounced as a lie or fantasy by 
many, and other characters may see it as their duty to force the 
character to renounce her quest, which might create some intense 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


roleplaying dynamics between the seeker and her former compatriots. 
Perhaps the seeker, in hunting for clues to finding a teacher, unearths 
a few other things, such as some interesting artifact, an embarrassing 
clan secret or an enemy she had long thought dead. 
Gehenna Cults 
The Camarilla officially decries Gehenna as a paranoid fallacy of 
the Sabbat, seeing the tales of the bloodthirsty Antediluvians as stories 
told to keep the unruly ones in line. Officially, Gehenna is seen as a 
myth by the elders and their ardent supporters. Behind closed doors, 
however, the whispers rise, and often the most staunch upholders of 
Blood Bonds and Traditions meet to discuss their secret fears. These 
are the most secret of the secret societies, for the exposure of one 
member places all in the gravest danger. The Inner Circle is not 
rumored to deal kindly with those Gehennists found. 
These “Gehenna cults” are considered one of the last great thrills 
for many elders. There is something exhilarating in the danger of 
holding a carefully coded conversation at Elysium, powerful in seeking 
to defer the destruction of the world, and (dare it be said?) quite 
naughty in belonging to such a society. Membership in a cult, however 
exciting it might be, is a risky game, asking much of its members for a 
task that might in the end be all for nothing. 
Some cults are social clubs with a secret Gehenna agenda known 
only to the “inner circle,” while others array themselves in all manner 
of occultish trappings like Freemasons. Some have gone completely 
underground, approaching only those they believe to be completely 
sympathetic to their cause and only after extensive research to assure 
themselves of such. Most are small, a few having members that have 
met only through correspondence. 
How these groups intend to bring about their ultimate goal varies 
according to the mission of the group. One searches for the “last 
daughter of Eve,” said to be the herald ofGehenna according to The Book 
ofNod. Another searches for the last pieces of The Book ofNod, hoping 
that in a missing fragment will be the answer they seek. Other believe 
that they must show the Antediluvians they have been doing the work 
of good vampires, and seek to stamp out anarchs and humanists. 
A few examples of Gehenna cults are given in Elysium: The Elder 
Wars. However, feel free to start your own for your chronicle which suits 
your purposes. After all, who’s to say that those poor fools know the truth? 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Elder Descriptions 
While different circumstances wreak different changes upon 
each vampire, there are certain constants that can be seen in elders of 
the various clans. 
The Camarilla 
For the Camarilla, the endless nights bring the great game of 
intrigue and politics. The Camarilla’s upper structure is supported 
largely by the elders - 
it is elders who form the Inner Circle, and elders 
who serve as the feared Justicars. They enjoy pride of place as the 
movers and shakers of Kindred society, and do not hesitate to use their 
accumulated power to remind the “youngsters” of this. However, they 
have used such power to the detriment of the Camarilla as a whole, 
clinging to their positions long past their usefulness and killing the 
best and brightest they fear as threats. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


As elders age, the thoughts of Golconda often become more and 
more frequent. Those who have managed to cling to their Humanity 
begin to consider the path in earnest, particularly when they find the 
ravages of age (callousness, paranoia, cannibalism) creeping upon 
them. Few, however, have the spiritual mettle to take more than a 
step or two. Those who choose the path often secretly follow and 
study it until they feel they are far enough along that they can make 
a full-time effort of it. Only the secure (in respect to faith and 
society) dare to step away. 
Brujah 
Brujah elders are often deep into the politics of cities and 
Kindred - 
and are very good at them. They wield great influence in 
the clan, not necessarily because the young ones respect them 
(indeed, most will watch the elders like hawks for signs of “selling 
out”), but because the young ones know that their elders hold power 
and are not afraid to use it when necessary. Time has tempered these 
elders (although they are still prone to frenzy), and most have left 
behind the Iconoclast days of their youth, but they have not given 
up their ideals of freedom and justice. They have simply moved into 
more “genteel” forums. 
Gangrel 
Like the Lupines they emulate, Gangrel elders are prized and 
respected as keepers of wisdom and warriors without peer - 
when 
they can be found. Some become solitaries, maintaining private 
havens in the wild which they defend from any incursion, while 
others drift into city living and politics. Many have become ex- 
tremely bestial from frenzies over the years, often sporting such 
touches as tufted ears, tails, extreme hairiness or animal eyes. Some 
of these elders can no longer be seen in human society unless they use 
a Discipline such as Musk of IO00 Faces. 
Malkavians 
Kooks who reach elder age are some of the most disturbing (and 
disturbed) Kindred one is likely to meet. When they decide to pull 
out their bags of tricks, chances are the tricks will be intricate and 
lethal. Their Derangements intensify over time, but they are hardly 
erratic or childish. Crazy doesn’t mean inefficient, and those who 
have chosen to play the elders’ games do so with the skill of 
consummate chess-players. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Nosferatu 
Clannish and solitary, most Nosferatu elders are in a position to sit 
in the middle of the spider’s web and watch the youngsters scurry. 
Many do, collecting the lore of centuries from networks of runners, 
and they boast some of the most impressive libraries of Kindred lore. 
Those who choose to play the political games do so with as much at 
their commands as they can muster. 
Toreador 
No clan is as aware of the passage of time and temporality as the 
Toreador. For the elders, watching the parade of fashion and art 
endlessly pass before them eventually drags many into ennui. Some 
watch the rise of artistic movements with a practiced eye, judging 
those they deem worthy of support or ridicule. Toreador are some of 
the most likely to fall into degeneracy as they age, “requiring” more 
extreme pleasures to excite their senses. 
Those Artistes who have managed to pursue their art even after so 
many years often reach a technical brilliance that is almost inconceiv- 
able to the human mind. As they age, however, they may find 
themselves growing distant from the “human” element of their work, 
resulting in art that fulfills the demands of technique, but which 
becomes cold and impersonal to its viewers. 
Tremere 
Most of the Tremere’s elders occupy the higher echelons of the 
pyramid of power, reaching their positions through a combination of 
skill, politicking and sheer tenacity. These are considered the leaders 
and tradition-bearers, teachers and masters, and in the hierarchical 
arrangement of this former wizards’ cabal, age demands (and receives) 
respect. They watch their younger clansmen with trepidation, walking 
a fine line between reward and punishment. By virtue of the clan’s 
structure, elders may easily deny potentially “dangerous” neonates and 
ancillae of rank with little question from their superiors and peers. 
Ventrue 
Repositories of Kindred tradition, many elder Ventrue can be 
found in the thick of city politics as princes or primogen. The eldest 
among them almost always have such experience under their belts. 
Never known for “daring” ways, even as neonates and ancillae, elder 
Ventrue can be among the most hidebound, and they will resist change 
in any form simply because it upsets their careful routines. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Independents 
Elders of the independent clans and bloodlines usually 
maintain the greatest status among their own. At such age and 
power, some feel they may venture out among the ruck and run 
of Kindred society without too much curiosity regarding their 
business. The idly curious can be sent packing, while the elders 
of the established clans may be receptive to deal-making with a 
surprising ally. 
Few elders of the independents ever reach their age through 
charm. Indeed, for some of these, merely reaching the age of 
discretion is an accomplishment in and of itself. 
Assamite 
These are among the most feared of vampirekind, and with 
good reason. All are experienced assassins with numerous kills to 
their records, some more than others. They are considered the 
“priesthood,” the teachers of the neonates and the guides of the 
ancillae. Eldership is not usually based on age alone; appointment 
to the silsila can be made by the clan leaders in recognition of 
outstanding service and dedication to the clan’s ideals. 
Daughters of Cacophony 
There are no known Daughters below the seventh generation. 
However, these rara avis are viewed with trepidation, if not fear, by 
many, including elders. Their gifts of song, channeled through 
Melpominee, are little known and even less understood, and rumors 
of elder Daughters combining their voices into a destructive sym- 
phony is enough to set any Elysium buzzing. 
Followers of Set 
Elder Setites often sit in the center of empires of corruption 
carefully built over centuries of work. Often they use younger 
Setites to build their works, even as the ancillae believe that they 
are forwarding their own ventures. Their blood is extremely 
addictive; it is unknown how many scramble and scheme to get 
their “fix,” but many elder Setites gloat over the number of peers 
who have fallen to such needs. 
Giovanni 
Elder Giovanni rule the clan with iron fists, often powerful and 
completely ruthless. These become the legendary dons of Mafia 
families, unsinkable patriarchs and iron-willed matriarchs who con- 
trol their networks of spies and thugs with devastating efficiency. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Very little happens in the rank and file without their knowledge or 
approval. As necromancers, they have lived long enough to acquire 
a frightening number of wraithly alliances and enemies. 
Ravnos 
Elder Ravnos often head fairly large kumpania, whether 
physically or spiritually. Even if they have chosen to wander as 
solitaries, the kumpania welcomes them back whenever they 
return. Gypsies prize their elders as repositories of wisdom and 
lore, and such is drilled into the heads of the youngsters (whether 
human or vampire) at an early age. Often, elder Ravnos have 
particular tricks and cons that they have honed to consummate 
skill from years of practice. 
Salubri 
Rare in the extreme, those Salubri who have reached elder age 
have often done so with the help of allies and through their own 
wits. A Salubri who has not reached Golconda by this time is quite 
unusual. Those who have are expected to create childer and 
extinguish themselves through ritual diablerie. They may be shel- 
tered at a prince’s court as advisors or teachers of Golconda, but 
they are always aware that at any moment they may need to flee 
from a Tremere with “righteousness” on his mind. 
Samedi 
Solitary and often bitter, Samedi elders find quiet havens and 
prefer to be left entirely alone. If one can be drawn out of his solitude, 
he is often quite knowledgeable about decay and the passing of time. 
Some choose tombs which they study over the course of years, 
observing nightly changes of decay in the inhabitants. 
The Sabbat 
In the violence of Sabbat society, elder status is a plum prize 
indeed, particularly since it means one survived long enough to 
achieve it. Sabbat elders are looked to as examples of the best, and 
they need to prove it every single night; there are always youngsters 
with delusions of grandeur who need to be reminded of their place. 
Resting on one’s laurels is not advised, and often an elder doesn’t 
have the time. More often than not, Sabbat elders are serving in 
high-ranking positions such as paladins and bishops, and are called 
on to teach the next generation of fighters. Among the packs, an 
elder who has managed to hold her own for so long will likely be a 
battle-scarred pack leader or an experienced priest. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


even those who receive favorable attention are never wholly 
comfortable in the presence of the elder until much time and 
experience has shown them otherwise. It was, after all, the elders 
and their loathsome deeds that started the Anarch Revolt. 
Lasombra 
Admission to the prestigious ranks of Les Amies Noir is consid- 
ered the hallmark of “eldership” for the Lasombra. Great privilege 
and great responsibility mark one’s time as an elder. Failure is not 
tolerated, so one may be certain that a Lasombra elder is among the 
best of her kind. A great number serve in the upper ranks of the 
Sabbat as bishops and other leaders; indeed, it is a Lasombra elder 
who rules Mexico City. Often chief in their mind is the embarrass- 
ing presence of the antitribu, and they will pursue any rumors of 
such to exhaustion. 
Tzimisce 
Many Tzimisce of advanced age no longer look remotely human, 
having practiced Vicissitude on themselves to reflect their increas- 
ingly alien state of mind. Scorning humans as juicebags and 
annoyances, they see no reason to look like them either. They often 
lord over what land they still own as their own, dreaming of days in 
the Carpathians and mixing old-fashioned ideals of manners, king. 
ship and custom with utterly inhuman desires and whims. The 
cruelty of elder Tzimisce is legendary among the youth, who quickly 
learn to keep a civil tongue in their heads before it is removed for 
them. Many are highly superstitious beyond their clan weakness of 
sleeping in native soil. 
Caitiff 
The average Caitiff is considered at a ripe old age if she 
survives to become an ancilla. Most rarely achieve elder status, 
primarily because they are driven from cities and hunted to the 
ground. Those who have reached the age of consideration are 
often loners, preferring their own company to that of their unkind 
brethren. A few manage to gather broods around them, usually of 
their own childer and grandchilder. On occasion, they go insane 
from the lack of Kindred company, and either end their exist- 
ences or turn to preying on the society that cast them out in the 
first place. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


“- 
New Clans 
The following clans are included here, since the majority of 
their ranks tend to be those of elder age. It is unlikely that many 
below ancilla rank have heard much of substance about them 
beyond stories of their sires. 
Gargoyles 
Created in the Dark Ages to serve the Tremere as terrifying 
warriors and servants, the first Gargoyles were molded from the raw 
matter of captured vampires steeped in foul alchemical ichors. Using 
strange rituals, the Tremere conjured puissant guardians who provide 
strong defense and unyielding loyalty to the various chantries. Upon 
the change, Gargoyles lose all memory of their previous lives, and 
suffer agonizing physical and spiritual changes. Magically bound to 
service, Gargoyles exist only to fight the enemies of their masters. 
Some Gargoyles break free of their conditioning, seeking to 
revolt against their Tremere masters. Still, the ties of their genera- 
tive magic are strong, and few can hope to escape slavery. In 
modern years, the Tremere carefully separate Gargoyles, assigning 
only one or two to any given Location, so as to quash any revolt, The 
individual Gargoyle remains a sad and lonely figure, enthralled in 
servitude, lacking any but the faintest memories of a former life, 
and driven to great rage and frustration. 
Clan Disciplines: Fortitude, Potence, Viscerutika 
Advantage: Gargoyles are all created through a magical ritual, 
which imbues them with unnatural resilience. All Gargoyles gain 
one additional Health Level - 
treat this as an extra “Healthy” level 
on the wound levels chart. 
Disadvantage: Gargoyles suffer from a rocklike, inhuman ap- 
pearance, sometimes studded with strange pebbly growths. They 
quite literally resemble something that crawled down from the 
tower of a Gothic cathedral, complete with wings, horns, talons 
and tails that continue to grow as they age. Thus, a Gargoyle 
automatically fails any Social Challenge not related to intimida- 
tion when its normal form is visible. Gargoyle players should wear 
enough makeup to make their inhuman appearance obvious, or 
should at least adopt baggy clothing and accesories that could 
reasonably conceal the Gargoyle form. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Furthermore, as a magically created servitor race, gargoyles are 
automatically two Traits down on any attempt to resist Dominate or 
other forms of supernatural mind control. 
Dark Ages Gargoyles 
Clan Disciplines: Flight, Fortitude, Potence 
Advantage: Gargoyles of the Dark Ages gain an additional Health 
Level, just like their modern counterparts. 
Disadvantage: Gargoyles in the Dark Ages suffer from the same 
hindrances as their successors. 
Note: The Discipline of Viscerutika actually consists of several 
powers that were bestowed upon Gargoyles through the use of 
Thaumaturgical rituals; by the modern age, the typical Gargoyle has 
internalized those powers. In the Dark Ages, the Discipline ofViscerutika 
is not available to Gargoyles, but the individual powers of the Disci- 
pline may be studied as Thaumaturgy rituals of the same difficulty (i.e. 
a Basic Viscerutika power can be learned as a Basic ritual). These rituals, 
which only function on a Gargoyle, typically require the expenditure 
of a Mental Trait by the caster and last for the duration of the session. 
Dark Ages Gargoyles gain the ability to fly instead of studying 
Visceratika; they spend experience points as if buying the Viscerutika 
Discipline, but each level purchased allows the Gargoyle to fly at a 
speed of 5 mph. Thus, a Gargoyle with four levels of Flight can fly at a 
speed of 20 mph. Flight should be represented with a special card or 
hand signal, prearranged with a Narrator or Storyteller. 
Lasombrahtifzfbu 
These renegade Kindred have nearly been hunted to extinction by 
their Sabbat brethren. Many are relics of the Middle Ages who refused 
to join with the Sabbat after the fall of their Antediluvian founder. 
While similar in many aspects to their Sabbat counterparts, Lasombra 
untitribu are cunning and ruthless survivors who will stop at nothing to 
ensure their continued existence. Be it piracy on the high seas or 
controlling the stock market, they are masters of adapting to a 
situation to serve their needs. A few are members of the Camarilla, but 
most are independents who serve their own interests. 
Disciplines: Dominate, Obtenebration, Potence 
Advantage: Lasombra antitribu are master manipulators and busi- 
nessmen. Because of this, they automatically gain one additional 
Bureaucracy or Finance Influence Trait. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disadvantage: In addition to the standard Lasombra disadvan- 
tage regarding mirrors, Lasombra untitribu are distrusted within the 
Camarilla, and have the permanent Negative Trait of Untrustwor- 
thy as a result. In addition, the Lasombra antitribu, be they Camarilla 
or independent, are constantly hunted without remorse by Lasombra 
of the Sabbat. 
Old Clan Tzimisce 
Ancient beyond most Kindred standards, those Tzimisce that 
never embraced the Vicissitude Discipline are known as the “Old 
Clan.” While similar to their modern Sabbat counterparts in their 
inhuman natures and macabre tastes, they carry a seething hatred for 
their Vicissitude-using childer, whom they consider to be traitors of 
their blood. Most of these rare vampires still maintain large estates 
and castles that they have lorded over for centuries. Nearly all are 
unliving antiquities, often dressing and speaking in fashions out- 
dated for centuries. The Old Clan Tzimisce are for the most part 
solitary, vicious independents who do not acknowledge the sover- 
eignty of either the Camarilla or the Sabbat. They rarely receive 
visitors to their domains, but those who have gained admittance 
speak in awe of the storehouses of knowledge to be found. 
Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Dominate 
Advantage: Old Clan Tzimisce show innate magical aptitude, such 
that if taught Thaumaturgy they are not required to pay the one extra 
experience point normally required for all out-of-clan Disciplines. 
Disadvantage: Something deep inside the Old Clan craves 
stability and permanence. The Fiends share a special connection to 
the land they claimed as their own in life. When they slumber, these 
ancient Kindred must surround themselves with at least two hand- 
fuls of earth from a land important to them in life. Failure to do so 
results in a fitful day’s rest, and no Willpower or Attributes Traits are 
regained from the sleep. 
Beast/Path Traits 
A character not on one of the Paths of Enlightenment is automati- 
cally considered to be on the Path of Humanity. Unlike Beast Traits, 
Path Traits have an undisputed hierarchy of sins that if broken 
demand an automatic Path Trait check. See Laws of the Night (pp. 
40-44) for rules on Paths. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Hierarchy of Sins 
The Hierarchies of Sins were not included in LotN, nor was the 
Path of Humanity. They are therefore printed here for the use of your 
troupe. 
Path of Caine 
Failing to pursue evidence concerning Caine when it could cost 
Failing to spend at least 10 minutes in meditation every night. 
Acting against the Sabbat. 
Being disrespectful to your elders. 
Failing to participate in a War Party. 
Refusing to attempt to destroy or convert Camarilla vampires. 
Considering humans to be of any more value than as food sources. 
Feeling sorry for killing a human. 
Not killing a mortal when there is need to do so. 
Relying on human allies or friends. 
you your unlife. 
Path of Cathari 
Refusing to sire new vampires. 
Failing to pursue a new form of pleasure. 
Failing to ride the wave of frenzy. 
Avoiding injury to others at the cost of your own pleasure. 
Refusing to murder humans when it would be in your best interest. 
Refusing to commit cruel acts that are in your best interest. 
Failing to brag about yourself if it is a good opportunity. 
Turning down a chance at material gain. 
Acting altruistically. 
Restraining yourself unnecessarily. 
Path of Death and the Sod 
Failing to kill for the sake of knowledge. 
Showing fear of Final Death. 
Acting in an emotional manner. 
Riding the wave during frenzy. 
Showing any sign of the animal or the human in you. 
Failing to study death when the opportunity affords itself. 
Showing no interest in death, or an aversion to it. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Displaying overt compassion. 
Needlessly preventing death. 
Allowing your emotion to override your logic. 
Path of Harmony 
Failing to spend at least 10 minutes per night communing alone 
Killing an animal for any reason other than survival. 
Failing to hunt and drink blood when needed. 
Acting in an overly cruel manner. 
Refusing to ride the wave as long as it is not detrimental to your 
Killing a mortal for any reason other than survival. 
Failing to provide safety for your loved ones and comrades. 
Allowing yourself to act too human or too bestial (Storyteller’s 
Feeling guilty about doing something you needed to do. 
Refusing to kill when it is important to your survival. 
with nature. 
own survival. 
discretion). 
Path of Honorable Accord 
Failing to act in accordance with the Sabbat in any matter. 
Failing to show hospitality to other Sabbat. 
Failing to observe an lgnoblis Ritus of your pack. 
Failing to observe an Auctoritus R i m  of the Sabbat. 
Acting against your leader; failing to protect fellow Sabbat. 
Placing personal welfare over that of the entire sect. 
Failing to honor an agreement. 
Showing cowardice. 
Showing overt disrespect for the sect. 
Breaking your word. 
Path of Humanity 
Wanton destruction. 
Not resisting frenzy. 
Going against one’s Nature. 
Killing a mortal. 
Torturing someone. 
Embracing a mortal out of spite. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Betraying your sect, clan, etc. to the enemy. 
Bringing about the unlawful destruction of a Kindred in the same 
Committing diablerie. 
Dealing with the infernal. 
sect, clan, etc. 
Path of Power and the Inner Voice 
Spending fewer than 10 minutes per night in silent meditation. 
Failing to use whatever means necessary to achieve greater power. 
Accepting defeat. 
Helping others when it is not to your advantage. 
Failing to respect others who possess greater power and wisdom. 
Treating underlings poorly. 
Backing down when you know you are right. 
Turning down a chance for increased wealth or power. 
Losing face in a crowd. 
Accepting someone who is equally or less capable than yourself as 
your superior. 
Clan-Specific Paths 
The following paths are clan-specific, and almost never seen 
among vampires not of the clan. They can be taught to other clans 
only through in-play interaction, and may never be taken by a 
character outside of the specific clan at character creation. Like 
clan-specific Disciplines, the Paths are usually kept as tight secrets 
among the clan members; teaching them to outsiders may be consid- 
ered a betrayal. 
Assarnite 
Path of Blood 
Outsiders often interpret the Assamite belief in the Path of Blood 
as a simple desire for increased power through diablerie. The truth is 
much more complex, embedded in the teachings of Haqim (the 
Assamite founder) which form the central motivation for the clan. 
The Path of Blood teaches that it will lead to the downfall of the 
Camarilla, turning their own strength against them. This will lead to 
the fulfillment of the Assamites’ revenge for their sufferings, as well as 
carrying out Haqim’s sacred task of ridding the world of the Kindred. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The second (and more mystical teaching) is that the Path of 
Blood ascends the peak of Alamut, and the Assamite who climbs the 
Path of Blood to the summit shall become One. This esoteric 
concept involves achieving a kind of enlightenment directly compa- 
rable to the Camarilla idea of Golconda. Only by reaching the 
summit may an Assamite become One. 
In many ways, this teaching is very similar to the Sabbat’s Path 
of Caine, which the Assamites are often credited with developing. 
The Camarilla are allowed to carry on believing that the Assamites 
follow the Path of Caine, since this is in the interests of the Great 
Disguise and prevents outsiders from learning their true goal: the 
destruction of all Caine’s progeny. 
Path of Blood Hierarchy of Sins: 
Failing to pursue an opportunity to obtain Kindred blood of a 
Succumbing to frenzy. 
Failing to pursue Kindred blood or knowledge of Caine or the 
Curse when there is moderate danger. 
Being disrespectful to clan leaders. 
Failing to execute an assassination contract yet surviving. 
Failing to pursue blood or knowledge in the face of minor danger. 
Not killing a non-Assamite vampire when there is need to do so. 
Placing personal desires or ambition above other matters. 
Failing to assist or avenge a clanmate. 
Revealing clan information to outsiders. 
Path Traits 
Assamites on the Path of Blood may also choose from the Path 
Traits Abelite, Self-Controlled or Scholar as described in Laws of the 
Night. (pp. 41) under the Path of Caine. 
Avenger - 
You believe in clan loyalty above all else. If 
anyone attempts to stop you or a clanmate from assisting or 
avenging a fellow Assamite, you succumb to a bloody killing haze 
to accomplish your goal. 
Disrespect - 
Frenzy whenever you see a fellow Assamite treat 
a higher-ranking Assamite with disrespect of any sort. Assamites must 
treat all, even enemies, with the respect due to them. The idea of a 
clanmate lowering himself to the level of other inferior vampires 
disgusts you. 
higher generation than your own, though it may cost your unlife. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Failure-Your 
clan has a reputation as the perfect killers. If you, 
or a fellow Assamite that you are aware of, fail in an assassination 
attempt, your self-esteem drops you into a frenzy-ridden depression of 
low morale. 
Traitor - 
If you are forced to reveal clan secrets to others, you 
succumb to frenzy. Treason is the worst crime an Assamite can 
commit. Frenzy if you become aware of an Assamite betrayingthe clan. 
Frenzy if you see a non-clanmate using powers or information that they 
could have only learned through an Assamite teaching (and betrayal). 
Ravnos 
Path of Paradox 
The Path of Paradox teaches that all existence is fluid and malleable. 
Nothing is permanent or real. The universe is an ever-shifting vortex and 
all in it is composed of variable amounts of ethereal matter, called “weig.” 
Ravnos on this Path gradually learn their ruison d’atre: to destroy the 
blasphemous creation of the Antediluvians, that thing known as reality. 
They learn to harness their internal weig for the production of reality- 
altering effects. These effects are mere illusions at low levels of power, 
but as the Ravnos becomes more powerful, the “tricks” gradually 
increase in potency. 
Ravnos also actively attempt to alter others’ perceptions of reality. 
Their favorite methods for so doing are through trickery and theft. 
Such are surprisingly effective weapons. 
Ultimately, however, the weig must be released into the vortex. 
Ravnos who are advanced students of this Path actively seek out items 
that retain weig - 
“magic” items, Lupine fetishes and the like - 
and 
destroy them. The most powerful followers of this Path hunt vampires 
with great amounts of weig- low generation, and the lower the better. 
Path of Paradox Hierarchy of Sins 
Refusing to commit diablerie upon an elder of another clan. 
Refusing to lead a “locked” being into the light - 
or into destruction. 
Showing any concern for mortals. 
Failing to acquire items or knowledge that would affect Gehenna. 
Failing to trick others when the opportunity arises. 
Being caught altering another’s reality via the select redistribution 
Refusing to release the weig of an empowered device. 
of possessions (known among the vulgar as stealing). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Joining another sect (Camarilla or Sabbat) and actively maintain- 
Actively hindering change. 
Actively inducing boredom. 
Path Traits 
ing the existing structure thereof. 
Release -Frenzy whenever you are prevented from committing 
diablerie on an elder of another clan, or releasing the weig from any 
contained item. If someone else is getting in your way, remove him. 
Concern - 
Mortals are an unimaginative and boring lot that 
refuse to see the big picture. Vampires who dote on them infuriate 
you! Frenzy if you must watch Kindred pamper or care for these 
unenlightened dolts. 
Knowledge - 
Frenzy whenever someone directly prevents you 
from acquiring knowledge of Gehenna. If a Nosferatu dangles pages 
of The Book of Nod in front of your face and refuses to let you see it, 
you frenzy. 
Failure - 
Frenzy if you are caught trying to pull a heist of any 
sort, whether a simple riddle, trick, theft, etc. “Real” Ravnos can get 
away with anything if they want to. You screwed up - 
you hate that! 
Boredom - 
You hate being bored. Boredom means stagna- 
tion, means that weig is getting trapped. You’ll frenzy just to shake 
things up. If you find yourself getting bored during the evening’s 
session, you frenzy (this is only if your character is bored; player 
boredom is another matter entirely). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Setites 
Path of Typhon 
Certainly no Setites are more sinister than those who follow 
the shadowy Path of Typhon. Its tenets are anathema to all that 
most mortals, and many Kindred, hold dear. For the Typhonites, 
corruption, pain, lies and sin are things to be cherished and spread 
throughout existence. Misery is not a means to an end, but an end 
in and of itself. 
Of all the Paths, the Path of Typhon is more like a religion than 
a philosophy. Its practitioners are rumored to worship various entities 
- 
perhaps personifications of various sins, perhaps something else - 
through blood libations and sacrifice. Through such worship, the 
Typhonites believe, mystic understanding may be gleaned. 
In order to achieve enlightenment, the followers of this Path 
continually seek to spread war, plague, poverty, stagnation and fear 
through the world. Through the creation and study of such phe- 
nomena, the Typhonites hope to discover the truths about, and 
behind, earthly existence. As far as the followers of Typhon are 
concerned, everyone else is missing the point. 
Path of Typhon Hierarchy of Sins 
Attempting to maintain any sense of self-control, purity or worth. 
Refusing to succumb to one’s own weaknesses (this includes 
Failing to destroy a vampire in Golconda. 
Destroying a foe expediently and mercifully rather than “poetically.” 
Failing to undermine the current social order in favor of the Setites. 
Failing to replace faith with cynicism and despair. 
Failing to exploit another’s weaknesses. 
Allowing one’s feelings for a mortal to override the need to corrupt 
Refusing to corrupt a vampire for the Setites. 
Not attempting to awaken Set at the earliest opportunity. 
Path Traits 
Control - 
You should have what you want. Should anyone 
decide to try to control your actions, you frenzy and make sure that she 
never tries it again. 
attempting to avoid frenzy). 
said mortal. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Weakness -The 
idea of someone fighting off his personal 
weakness infuriates you. Frenzy whenever you fail to get someone 
to give in to his weakness. 
Purity - 
The idea of those dolts that attempt to promote 
goodness and that vile concept of Golconda disgusts you like 
little else. When you are confronted with anyone holy or pure, 
you feel the overwhelming urge to destroy her. If prevented, you 
frenzy. If ever confronted by the Children of Osiris, a Salubri or 
anyone using the Disciplines of Bardo or Obeah, you frenzy on 
the spot. 
Mortal Feelings - 
If your feelings for a mortal conflict with 
your desire to corrupt her, the conflict within you drives you mad. 
The Beast takes control and you frenzy. 
Knowledge of Set - 
Frenzy whenever someone directly 
prevents you from acquiring knowledge of Set, such as a museum 
guard refusing to let you get closer to a scrap of papyrus on display. 
Path of Ecstasy 
Practitioners of this Path revel in luxury instead of degrada- 
tion. They sate the Beast by glutting its appetite. Although akin 
to the Path of Typhon in some ways, Ecstatics reject the base 
cruelties of the Typhonites. Rather than celebrate misery, they 
glorify pleasure, reveling in the most decadent extremes of 
vampiric sensation. Members of this path often despise the 
Kindred of Clan Toreador, and take every opportunity to hu- 
miliate them. 
Path of Ecstasy Hierarchy of Sins 
Allowing someone innocent to survive. 
Not wallowing in absolute luxury. 
Allowing someone ugly to survive. 
Allowing an infector of impurity (i.e., priest, nun, etc.) to live 
Rejecting wealth unnecessarily. 
Not attempting to corrupt an innocent. 
Not taking at least one drug regularly. 
Restraining your natural impulses unnecessarily. 
Failing to accept a gift. 
Destroying something of beauty. 
without good reason. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Path Traits 
Innocence - 
You always kill mortals that you feed upon. That’s 
what they are here for, after all. If a victim happens to escape death at 
your hands during your feeding, you frenzy. You played with your food 
too much, and now it got away! 
Luxury - 
You love your luxurious lifestyle. The thought of 
losing it makes you want to destroy anyone who would take it from you. 
Frenzy if you happen to lose anything that is yours. 
Corruption - 
The drive to corrupt the innocent is like a drug 
to you. If you fail to corrupt a chosen target, your anger is without 
equal. If he cannot be corrupted, he must be destroyed. You will 
remove anyone that gets between you and your target. 
Addiction - 
You have become addicted to a foreign substance 
or drug. If you can’t get your “fix” at least once per session, you frenzy. 
Beauty - Beauty is meant to be cherished. The sight of 
something beautiful being destroyed causes the Beast to rise within 
you, with a vengeance! You instantly frenzy and go looking for the 
despoiler. Barring him, you’ll take anyone who gets in your way. 
Path of the Warrior 
This Path has grown in popularity in recent decades, with many 
young Setites attracted to its philosophies. Just as Set was once a 
hunter and warrior, so too are adherents of this Path. These Setites 
pride themselves upon their physical and martial prowess. Many who 
follow the Path of the Warrior are masochists and fanatics. They 
believe that the Beast is a creation of the mind, and that by training 
the body until it is stronger than the mind, the Beast can be controlled. 
Path of the Warrior Hierarchy of Sins 
Not subjecting yourself to the most painful tortures. 
Failing any test set you, physical or mental. 
Not developing your body to its fullest potential. 
Spending Blood Points to heal your wounds the same night they 
Not developing your Disciplines to their fullest potential. 
Killing swiftly and mercifully. 
Showing any sign of pain. 
Not exercising every night. 
Thinking too long before acting. 
Refusing a Physical Challenge. 
are inflicted. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Path Traits 
Failure - 
The mind and body Set provided you are the most 
powerful things you have. Frenzy if you fail in a conflict regarding the 
power of your mind or proving your superior physical prowess. 
Mental or Physical Development - 
If you are unable to spend 
at least half an hour per night in meditation or developing your near- 
perfect immortal body, you are forced into a panic-driven frenzy. 
Discipline Development - 
If you are not able to successfully use 
at least one each of your different Disciplines on a foe per night, you 
frenzy out of shame at your own weakness. 
Pain - 
Pain is for the weak. Only inferior beings show pain. If 
you are caught showing any pain, you have failed Set. Knowing that 
you have failed Set causes you to frenzy. 
Refusal - 
Refusing a Physical Challenge dishonors Set. If you 
or any other Setite that you see backs down from a Physical Challenge, 
you frenzy due to the dishonor to your lord. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines 
Even the youngest vampire is aware of the powers bestowed on her 
by virtue of her blood, and over time and through testing, she can 
create some remarkable and lethal effects. With such immense time to 
hone one's abilities, the powers of the elder vampires are terrifying and 
amazing to behold. 
Characters of the ninth generation and higher may learn 
Advanced Disciplines, but they may not progress beyond them, 
forcing these Kindred to seek other ways to enhance their personal 
power. The same is not true for those of older vitae. Characters of 
the eighth generation and lower have access to the potent Master- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


level Disciplines. As with any Discipline the lower levels must be 
learned before moving on to the more advanced powers; before 
learning Soul Scan, for instance, a character must possess Clairvoyance, 
Psychic Projection and all the lower-level Auspex powers. 
Master-level powers cost 12 experience points per clan Discipline 
and 13 points per out-of-clan. Characters that possess these frighten- 
ing powers are uncommon at best. Storytellers should feel free to 
disallow powers that are too easily abused or that unbalance the game. 
In addition to the Master-level powers, the following Disciplines - 
Melpominee, Mytherceria, Necromancy, Obeah, Quietus, Spiritus and 
Thanatosis - 
have been given an additional Basic power for game 
balance. These powers are to be learned in order with those Basic 
powers listed in Laws of the Night (e.g., the Quietus power Weakness 
would be learned after Silence of Death and before Poison Blade). The 
Thaumaturgy Paths and Rituals listed in this supplement are available 
to characters of any generation. 
Animalism 
Master 
Animal Succulence 
While many Kindred find the blood of animals revolting and 
detest consuming their vitae, you are able to reap unique benefits from 
this type of feeding. Animal Succulence makes animal vitae particularly 
nourishing, and doubles the number of Blood Traits a vampire with 
this Discipline may obtain from any animal. This power is not in effect 
when a vampire feeds on humans. 
Conquer the Beast 
You now have achieved a certain mastery of the Beast within 
yourself. As such, you may enter and exit any frenzy at will. You may 
choose and control the type of frenzy you enter (see Laws of the Night, 
pp. 117-1 18) and your actions throughout. To enter frenzy, you must 
lose one Social Trait and one Willpower Trait. The frenzy ends 
whenever you so choose, or after 10 minutes have elapsed. A character 
in frenzy gains the following: 
Rage Frenzy: Ferocious x 2 and Tenacious 
Control Frenzy: Ferocious x 2 and Tough 
Terror Frenzy: Ferocious x 2 and Brutal, plus immunity to Presence, 
Dominate and any other non-Animalism Social Challenge. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Auspex 
Master 
Clairvoyance 
You can see and hear events without the need for Psychic Projection. 
To use this Discipline, you must win a Static Mental Challenge against 
a variable difficulty (see chart). The difficulty of the challenge is based 
on your familiarity with the place you seek to view (e.g., Clairvoyantly 
viewing your own haven would be a Static Challenge against a difficulty 
of four Traits, while viewing your sire’s castle in Transylvania that you 
have only seen in a painting is a nearly impossible task). You may also 
use all other Auspex Disciplines while using Clairoloyunce. 
Place as familiar as one’s haven 
Visited there three or four times 
Visited once 
12 
Described in detail 
18 
Never been there but have seen a photograph 
25 
Soul Scan 
4 
8 
You can discover the “location” of anyone you know, wherever the 
target maybe.ThispowerrequirestheassistanceofaNarrator. 
Youmust win 
a Static Mental Challenge against the target’s Mental Traits to enact this 
Discipline. The Narrator simply notes the time of the Soul Scan and then 
finds the target, asking her where she was at that time and informing you. 
Other Disciplines (as appropriate) can be used after locating the target. This 
power locates the mind of the individual sought. If the individual sought is 
currently using powers such as Psychic Projection or Possession, the result of 
Soul Scan will be to find where her conscious mind currently is. 
Master 
Bring Forth the Dawn 
With this power you may force another Kindred to succumb to the 
Daysleep by winning a Social Challenge against him. The victim will 
sleep one hour for every Beast Trait he has. This power can also affect 
multiple targets (Mob Rule applies). The target can only be aroused by 
circumstances which would directly bring about his destruction 
(Storyteller’s discretion). The target may, if he chooses, spend Will- 
power to remain awake, at a rate of one Trait per hour. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Celerity 
Master 
Quickness 
You disappear, in an incredible burst of speed. Your synchronicity 
between mind and body has reached such a level of perfection that 
most Kindred deem the speed in which you move unfathomable. You 
may make four extra challenges when employing Quickness. Other- 
wise this power is identical to Swiftness, including cost. If used to cut 
travel time, the time is reduced to 1/16. 
Velocity 
Vampires with this power are often mistaken for having the 
powers of teleportation. You move faster than most conscious minds 
can think. You may make five extra challenges when employing 
Velocity. Otherwise this power is identical to Swiftness, including 
cost. If used to cut travel time, the time is reduced to 1/32. 
Chimerstry 
Basic (Level 2) 
Fata Morgana 
You can create an illusion that is visible to one person. 
However, the illusion you create may affect as many senses as you 
wish, including sight, sound, touch and even smell and taste. 
While the created illusion is not real and cannot cause physical 
harm, it can be used to trick or deceive others after a successful 
Social Challenge. The illusion lasts for as long as you want it to, 
until you leave the vicinity, or until your opponent succeeds in a 
Social Challenge. 
Master 
Pseudo Blindness 
Your ability to perceive reality has reached a heightened state 
well beyond that of other Kindred. Where once you were as easily 
duped as any other, you now no longer fall prey to simple mind 
tricks. You are no longer affected by Obfuscate or Chimerstry powers 
below Advanced, unless your adversary is of a lower generation 
than yourself. Once acquired, this power is in effect at all times. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mass Reality 
The illusions you now create have become so potent that you 
can cause whole groups of people to experience Horrid Reality. All 
of your opponents see the same illusion and believe it to be real. 
You must win a Mental Challenge against each target in turn for 
this power to be successful. 
Dementation 
Master 
Kindred Spirits 
You can manipulate another’s mind and force the victim to become 
identical to you in many respects. The target’s Nature and Demeanor 
temporarily change to match your own. In addition, the victim acquires 
any Derangements and all Beastpath Traits you possess. This power 
does not give you any direct control over the victim, but while under its 
effects, she is forced to act in ways that she normally wouldnot. You must 
make physical contact (which may result in a Physical Challenge) and 
succeed in a Mental Challenge for this power to take effect. The 
duration of this power is one hour. At Narrator discretion, an extended 
test can grant an additional hour of effect for each success earned. 
Mind of a Killer 
This power allows you to alter the mind of your target, making her 
a cold-blooded killer. The first person to offend the target in any way 
(including a loved one or an opponent of considerably more power) 
becomes her chosen victim. The target will then do everything in her 
power to kill her chosen victim, using whatever means it takes. So 
strong is the target’s hatred that when in the presence of her victim, 
she must win a Static Mental Challenge every 10 minutes or she will 
frenzy and attack the target. Once the target has completed her task, 
the effect ends and the target is left to agonize over her deed, 
completely unaware of what provoked her. A Beast Trait/Path check 
may be in order. This power works on both supernatural creatures and 
mortals, and requires you to kiss the victim (a Physical Challenge may 
be in order-remember, 
no touching) and defeat her in a Mental Test. 
Willpower may not be used to negate the effects of this power. This 
power lasts one night per Mental Trait invested into the initial 
challenge or until the death of the target’s victim. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Dominate 
Master 
Obedience 
You may now use all other Dominate Disciplines without eye 
contact. To activate this power, all you need to do is be able to see and 
talk to the target. (And yes, you must actually speak to the target, and 
have the target understand. “Within earshot” doesn’t cut it.) 
Rationale 
Those whom you Dominate are convinced their actions are entirely 
of their own design, and were right and proper under the circumstances. 
This power requires a successful Mental Challenge against the target to 
work. If you are successful, the target believes that whatever he did under 
the influence of your successful Dominate Challenge was done of his own 
volition. The effects last for one evening. 
Fortitude 
Master 
Imperviousness 
Your ability to shrug off m a t  forms of damage has reached unbelievable 
heights. You may perform a Simple Test to negate nonaggravated wounds; 
you conduct one test per wound incurred. If you win, you take no damage. 
Invulnerability 
You have become a walking juggernaut. Only the most tenacious 
and cunning of opponents stand a chance of bringing you down. You 
may perform a Simple Test to negate aggravated wounds; you conduct 
one test per wound level incurred. If you win, you take no damage; on 
a tie the wound becomes nonaggravated. 
You cannot continue testing down with Imperviousness after a 
successful test on Invulnerablility . 
Melpominee 
Basic 
The Missing Voice 
You may “throw” your voice, causing to it emanate from any place 
within view. This operates independently of you, and you may continue 
to talk normally while the “thrown” voice chimes in. This power works 
1 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


automatically, but if you wish to undertake any other actions at the same 
time, you must perform a Mental Challenge; success indicates you can 
divide your concentration. The best way to handle this is to give a 
Narrator a note with what you wish to say. 
Master 
Art’s Traumatic Essence 
You may now drive others mad with the soundof your voice. To affect 
the target, you must wina Social Challenge against her. Once affected, the 
target gains a random Derangement (as determined by the Storyteller) for 
the remainder of the evening. Both characters are aware of what the 
Derangement is and may act accordingly. This Discipline can only affect 
one target at a time, unless the Daughter of Cacophany spends a 
Willpower Trait. Each Trait spent thus allows for an additional victim. 
Mytherceria 
Basic (level 2) 
Darkling Trickery 
This power allows the Kiasyd to play minor magical pranks. By 
defeating a target in a Mental Challenge, you can create spontaneous 
effects. While none of them should be overtly harmful, they most 
certainly should be annoying to the victim. Examples of possible effects: 
target lets out adeafening scream, target slips and falls, target’s gun jams, 
target’s pants fall down, target sneezes steadily for one minute straight. 
The effect of this power should be regulated closely by a Narrator. 
Master 
Riddle Phantastique 
By defeating the target in a Mental Challenge, this Discipline 
allows you to recite a riddle of your choosing. The target can then do 
nothing but try to solve it, although she may defend herself as normal 
if attacked. The Riddle is so impenetrable that it can actually damage 
the minds that think about it. The target must try to guess the answer 
to the riddle once every 10 minutes, whether she knows the answer or 
not. For every incorrect guess made by the target, she takes one 
nonaggravated wound. Every third incorrect guess results in the target 
receiving an aggravated wound. Malkavians or Kindred with two or 
more Derangements are immune to this side effect. The duration of 
this power is one night, or until completion of the riddle. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


This power allows you to cause huge spikes to shoot out of walls, 
ceilings and floors. The spikes will be made of the same material as the 
surface from which they form, and can be especially dangerous to 
vampires in a wooden house or room. An attack of this nature is 
considered a ranged attack, and requires a challenge of your Mental 
Traits versus the target’s Physical Traits. If the attack is successful, the 
target suffers two levels of nonaggravated damage. Wooden spikes that 
damage Kindred are accompanied by a Simple Test to see if the target 
has been staked. Due to the huge size of the spikes, only one Simple 
Test need be made. (Note: This is not a physical test of brute strength 
on the target’s part, so Potence cannot be used in the challenge.) 
Necromancy 
Basic 
Insight 
This Discipline allows you to look into the eyes of a corpse and 
view the last five minutes those eyes saw in life, often images of the 
target’s killer and the manner of death. Insight also works on the 
walking dead, and may allow you to perceive the identity of a vampire’s 
sire. A Mental Challenge must be won if the target resists. 
Master 
Torment 
By expending a Willpower Trait and winning a Simple Test, you 
may initiate Physical Challenges to strike and physically harm wraiths 
for 10 minutes as if you were beyond the Shroud. The wraith cannot 
escape by becoming incorporeal, nor can the ghost strike you, because 
you are not in the Shadowlands. A wraith reduced to zero Corpus goes 
through a Harrowing as described in Oblivion. 
Spirit Possession 
You now possess the power to place wraiths within the bodies of the 
dead. After summoning a wraith, you may expend a Willpower Trait to 
place it, if willing, into adead body. The wraith may then inhabit the body 
for up to one week. (Note: A wraith placed in a body this way does not 
become a Risen - 
see Oblivion.) You may attempt to place a wraith in 
a Kindred body; however, you must spend two Willpower Traits and win 
a Mental Challenge against the owner of the body. The spirit of the ousted 
vampire may initiate one Mental Challenge per day against the wraith to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


regaincontrol ofhis body. A vampire exiled from his bod 
wraith and his former body is now his one and only Fetter as described in 
Oblivion. A wraith possessing a Kindred body has full access to any 
Celerity, Fortitude or Potence Disciplines the vampire may have had. 
Obeah 
Basic (Level 2) 
Anesthetic Touch 
By using this power, you may lay your hands on someone and stop 
her body from feeling any pain, or bring a vampire out of frenzy. This 
power also paralyzes the target for one turn per Mental Trait expended. 
You must defeat an unwilling target in a Physical Challenge. Improper 
use of this Discipline (e.g., using this power simply to paralyze a target) 
may demand a Beast Trait check. 
Master 
Pain for Pleasure 
By spending a Willpower Trait, you can dull the senses of your 
target such that he feels intense pleasure instead of pain and suffers no 
Trait penalties for wounds. Unfortunately, this also results in the 
target not realizing he is injured. The experience is very sensual, and 
some targets have been known to injure themselves deliberately to 
achieve the sensation again. 
Vitae Block 
This power allows you to render a portion of another vampire’s 
blood inert and unusable. By succeeding in a Mental Challenge, you 
spend a Mental Trait for every Blood Trait you wish to block. The 
target may only use those “blocked” Blood Traits after he spends an 
equal number of Willpower Traits. Although spending Willpower 
may be done one Trait at a time until the task is completed, none of 
the blocked vitae will be usable until it is all freed. 
Obfuscate 
Master 
Cloak the Aura 
With this power, you can completely cloak your aura from the 
prying eyes of others. By expending a Willpower Trait, you can 
completely conceal your aura or change it at will. Others attempting 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to use Aura Perception, Telepathy or Soul Scan on you must defeat you 
in an opposed Mental Challenge to break the Cloak. If the Cloak is 
broken, your opponent must defeat you in an additional Mental 
Challenge for any of the previous powers to have an effect. 
Cloak the Aura’s effects override those of any lesser Obfmcate power. 
Conceal 
Similar to the Intermediate power Cloak the Gathering, you may 
now enshroud nonliving objects, up to but no larger than the size of 
a house. You must decide the number of Mental Traits you wish to 
invest in the concealment. The invested Traits determine the rating 
of the Static Challenge for any opponents who wish to pierce the 
concealment. Once active, the effects of this power are permanent 
until broken. 
Obtenebration 
Master 
Eyes of the Night 
With the expenditure of a Mental Trait, you are able to see 
anything that goes on within the dark force created by any other 
use of this Discipline. Thus you could evoke Eyes of the Night in 
another room and clairvoyantly scan the area within. Moreover, 
you may use this power to view your surroundings from any angle 
or vantage point within 50 feet of your body where a shadow exists. 
You only perceive visual information through use of this power. 
Using this power requires the expenditure of a Mental Trait per five 
minutes of use. 
Shadow Step 
With the expenditure of two Mental Traits you can walk into 
one shadow and exit from another up to 50 feet away. This power 
acts as a limited form of teleportation. You may use it to bypass solid 
walls, ascend a floor in a building, and get around other obstacles. 
You may also attempt to pull others through a shadow by reaching 
into the shadow, grabbing the victim and pulling her through to 
your own location (this requires a Physical Challenge). You may 
carry objects through the shadows (including living creatures). Use 
of this power requires you to state which shadow you wish to step 
through, then to walk over the stated shadow from which you wish 
to exit and then resume play. Use of this power is a Fair Escape. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Potence 
Master 
Force 
Your supernatural strength has reached proportions that are 
the stuff of legend. You amaze fellow Kindred as you heft cars from 
the street, and are able to grind coal into diamonds with your bare 
hands. So devastating is your immense strength that in physical 
confrontations opponents must now defeat you in two tests instead 
of one. If either test is lost, your opponent takes damage. If your 
opponent is using Force, and if each of you wins one of the tests, you 
both take full damage. 
Demolition 
You now possess power so colossal that only the suicidal or the 
insane would cross you in a test of strength. You are so dangerous in 
hand-to-hand combat you inflict two additional wounds if you win the 
challenge. If your opponent uses Demolition, and if each of you wins 
one of the tests, you both take full damage. 
Presence 
Master 
Love 
This power duplicates the effect of a Blood Bond for as long as the 
target is in your presence. You must win a Social Challenge for this 
Discipline to take effect. 
Mind Numb 
This power allows you to cause those around you (up to, but not 
exceeding five targets) to lose all feeling, emotion and any motivation 
for action. After choosing the group affected, you must expend a 
Willpower Trait, then conduct a Social Challenge against each 
member in the group. If you are successful, all affected targets will tend 
to do nothing. Some may continue to perform rote tasks, such as 
vacuuming or stirring, if they were doing so just before Mind Numb 
took affect. The targets react to nothing but simple and immediate 
input, such as hot objects put in their hands. They will not be 
frightened if put in danger, or become angry if they are yelled at. This 
effect lasts as long as you are in their presence. Any direct action 
intended to cause physical harm to the target breaks the hold. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Flesh of Marble 
Your skin has become as hard as stone, but loses none of its 
flexibility. It is now almost impossible to cut you, stake you, or do lasting 
physical damage to you. Opponents must defeat you in three successive 
tests to stake you (in addition to winning the necessary Physical 
Challenge). A character with Flesh ofMarble doubles his Health Levels 
with regard to wounds of a physical nature. Flesh of Marble would not 
block such Disciplines as Death of the Drum, Cauldron of Blood, etc. 
Form of the Ghost 
While similar to Mist Form in that you become insubstantial, Form 
ofthe Ghost allows you to retain your own form and to move at a normal 
pace. Gravity and the elements (except fire and sunlight) do not affect 
you normally, henceforth giving you a version of flight. In addition, 
solid objects have no effect on you, and you may pass through them at 
will. You may not physically manipulate objects in the solid world. You 
must expend a Blood Trait to enter this form, which may be left at will. 
The transformation into Form of the Ghost is instantaneous and in 
some situations may give a Fair Escape. When you are employing this 
power, you cannot touch or be touched by another character employ- 
ing this power. While in this form you are still affected by wards, and 
can utilize any Discipline that does not require touch. 
Quietus 
Basic 
Weakness 
With this power, you can utilize your blood as a contact poison. 
Flesh-to-flesh contact, the expenditure of a Blood Trait and a success- 
ful Physical Challenge are all required to use Weakness. If the attempt 
is successful, the victim is down two Physical Traits for an hour. 
Master 
Taste of Death 
You may now spit a Trait’s worth of blood at your foes, doing 
aggravated damage to those you hit. An attack of this form is consid- 
ered a ranged attack; therefore, you may use Mental Traits to defend 
against your target’s Physical Traits. You may spit blood 10 feet for 
every two Physical Traits you possess. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Foul Blood 
By expending a Willpower Trait, you permanently make the blood of 
a vessel undrinkable and vile to anyone but yourself. Anyone who drinks 
the blood of a tainted vessel must spend the next minute vomiting 
profusely, and takes one nonaggravated wound per Blood Trait consumed. 
Serpentis 
Master 
Temptation 
You can attempt to tempt the target into evil actions (e.g., murder, 
slander, thievery, etc.) by simply speaking with her and telling her about 
her weakness. If the target is visibly upset at another character, you may 
initiate a Social Challenge to implant a suggestion in the target’s mind 
regarding that character that the target will attempt to carry out at all 
costs. You may not spend Willpower Traits in the normal fashion to 
negate the effects of Temptation. Willpower Traits may be spent over 
time to stave off its effects. It takes a total of eight Willpower Traits to 
negate the effects of Temptation. The target may be induced to perform 
actions that cause her to receive Beast or Path Traits. 
Obsession 
This power inspires the target with an overpowering lust for a 
certain substance or condition as dictated by you. You need only speak 
with the target, telling her about this “lust” and defeat her in a Social 
Challenge. Whether the desire in question be money, sex or power, the 
target will crave it uncontrollably. The target must possess or experience 
the object of her desire at least once during the night, or she will frenzy 
when the game session nears its end (dictated by the Narrator). The 
target may try to stave off the Obsession once per night by winning a 
Static Challenge against her own total Mental Traits. To permanently 
rid herself of the Obsession she must expend a total of nine Willpower 
Traits. With this Discipline, the target may be induced to perform 
actions that cause her to receive Beast or Path Traits. 
Basic 
Summon Spirit Beasts 
You can call on the spirits of dead animals to aid you. These spirits will 
be predisposed to helping you, and can follow simple telepathic com- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


mands. The spirits can take any action of which they were capable in 
normal life (e.g., a bird spirit can fly, a dog spirit has keen hearing, etc.). 
Generally it takes one Mental Trait to summon aspirit, but aNarrator may 
issue a higher cost for a larger, more powerful spirit. The spirit arrives in 
10-30 minutes. No one can see the spirit companion except those who 
have powers that enable them to see into the spirit world. The spirit will 
aid you for one night, and then return to the land of the dead. 
Master 
Engling Fury 
You may now feed off an animal spirit to replenish all your lost 
Willpower Traits. Use of this power destroys the spirit, however, and 
may only be invoked once per session. After using this Discipline, you 
may not access any other Spiritus powers for the remainder of the night. 
Spirit Form 
With this power you can transform yourself into the spiritual form 
of any natural animal not larger than a bear and no smaller than a 
hummingbird. In many respects this power works similarly to the 
Protean Discipline Shadow of the Beat. In this form you appear as a 
ghostly version of the animal in question; however, you are actually a 
solid creature which can attack and be wounded normally. The change 
only alters your body and normal clothes; other equipment, including 
weapons, are unchanged. To activate this power you must expend a 
Blood Trait. This power takes one action to activate. You gain extra 
Physical Traits while in this spirit form, depending on its size. As a 
small creature (e.g., a bird or a bat), you gain the Physical Traits Quick 
and Lithe. As a medium creature (e.g., a wolf or a dog), you gain the 
Physical Traits Ferocious x 2 and Vigorous. If you assume the form of a 
large creature (e.g., a bear or a tiger), you gain the Physical Traits 
Ferocious, Rugged, Stalwart and Tough. 
Thanatosis 
Basic (Level 2) 
Hag’s Wrinkles 
With the expenditure of a Blood Trait, you may expand or contract 
your skin, allowing you to change both your general appearance and 
apparent age. This ability can also be used to conceal small items in your 
body by creating pockets of flesh that are then tightly sealed. 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
 
.
.
 
72 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Master 
Compress 
By expending three Blood Traits and defeating the target in a Physical 
Challenge, you can cause the your opponent’s skin to shrink until it 
ruptures, causing two aggravated wounds. If the attack succeeds, you can 
then “absorb” your victim’s skin into your own body, gaining three 
Physical Traits (Resilient, Tough, Vigorous) for the remainder of the night. 
Dust to Dust 
This power is similar in appearance to the Intermediate Discipline 
Ashes to Ashes, but is much more potent. Once you opt to transform 
into a pile of heavy ashes, you retain complete control over all mental 
Disciplines except Dominate and Thaumaturgy. The dust cannot be 
forced apart or moved by the wind unless you so desire. You can also 
use winds to aid movement while in this form. Like characters 
employing the Form ofMist, you retain cohesion without difficulty. To 
enter this form requires the expenditure of two Physical Traits. 
Thaumaturgy 
Path of Coninring 
Nothing larger or heavier than the conjurer may be summoned 
(no LAW rockets and no tanks). Conjured items differ from their 
“live” counterparts in that they seem too perfect and have no distin- 
guishing characteristics. 
Basic 
Summoning the Spirit 
You can summon a simple inanimate object with the expenditure 
of one Willpower Trait. The object cannot be more complex than a 
hand-held object with no moving parts (dagger, pencil) and weighing 
no more than 10 pounds. The object remains solid for 10 minutes for 
every Willpower Trait expended (e.g., three Willpower equals 30 
minutes), then returns to the place from which it was summoned. 
Permanency 
You can conjure an object without the expense of Willpower. The 
object cannot be more complex than a hand-held object with no 
moving parts (dagger, pencil). An object conjured in this fashion is 
permanent and must be physically returned to its place of origin. The 
cost for this power is the expenditure of two Blood Traits. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Intermediate 
Magic of the Smith 
You can summon forth complex objects with moveable parts 
(handguns, CD players, anything within the limits of size) with the 
expenditure of two Willpower Traits. You must have a working 
knowledge (Storyteller’s discretion) of the object. The object remains 
for 10 minutes per every Willpower Trait you expend (e.g., three 
Willpower points equals 30 minutes). Permanency will not affect 
objects conjured with this power. 
Advanced 
Power Over Life 
You may create simple simulacra of living beings. These creations 
lack free will, emotions and creativity, but will follow your orders. To 
conjure the simulacra requires the expenditure of five Blood Traits. 
The beings last for one evening and may not be made permanent. 
(Note: Simulacra [or golems] created in this way have seven Physical 
Traits, no Mental or Social Traits, no Abilities, and are immune to all 
Mental and Social Challenges.) 
Spirit Thaumaturgy 
Failures in Spirit Thaumaturgy are not recommended; the spirit of 
a botched summoning may turn out to be a Spectre or may decide to 
follow the vampire around for a while to harass her. This is the rarest 
Path of Thaumaturgy; most of its practitioners learned the rudiments 
as mortals. This Path is known among Sabbat and Camarilla Tremere. 
Basic 
Evil Eye 
You can summon a wraith to harass a victim for a duration of time 
determined by the number of Mental Traits expended into the 
challenge. You must defeat the victim in a Mental Challenge. If you 
are successful, the victim must bid two extra Traits in any challenges 
for 10 minutes. You may extend the duration of harassment at the cost 
of one Mental Trait per five minutes. 
Spirit Eyes 
You may attempt to see and communicate with wraiths in the area. 
A successful Mental Challenge versus the wraith is required before you 
are able to see or communicate with it. You may communicate with the 
ghost for five minutes for every Mental Trait you expend. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


intermediate 
Spirit Slave 
This power allows you to master a summoned wraith. To use 
this power, you must win a Mental Challenge against the wraith. 
If you win the test, the wraith is bound to remain and answer any 
questions you like, or perform any one task you require. If 
unwilling, the wraith might opt to perform the task poorly. An 
additional use of this power can force a recently dead wraith 
into permanently haunting the present location. This effect 
requires a successful Mental Challenge against the target. How- 
ever, this effect can (at the Storyteller’s discretion) eventually 
wear off. 
Journey 
This power is similar to the Auspex power of Psychic Projection, 
but your spirit remains within the physical realm. Your body 
remains in one place while the spirit travels around. You can be 
trapped inside fetishes when in this state, and can potentially be 
controlled by any spirit power. Mental Disciplines that do not 
require touch are available for use while in this state, with the 
exception of Necromancy or any other Spirit Thaumaturgy. Any 
power requiring physical contact or that manipulates the physical 
body is unavailable. Your spirit is visible to those around you unless 
Obfuscate is being used. To activate this power requires the expen- 
diture of one Willpower Trait. While in this form, your spirit is 
immune to physical harm but is affected by sunlight and wards as 
normal. 
Advanced 
Fetishes 
You can cause spirits to inhabit objects, or fetishes, which you 
may then carry around with you. Once the spirit is imprisoned, 
the fetish will allow you access to one and only one power (not to 
exceed Advanced level) that the spirit possesses. The power that 
becomes available is determined by the Storyteller. A successful 
Mental Challenge against the victim is all that is required to bind 
the spirit to the fetish. The spirit is trapped in the fetish until the 
fetish is broken. Before you may access any power of the fetish, 
you must permantly expend a Mental Trait to attune the item to 
yourself. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Elemental Mastery 
Basic 
Elemental Strength 
This power allows you to increase your Physical Traits without the 
need to expend Blood Traits. You can expend one Willpower Trait to 
gain the Physical Traits BTUWTI~, Dexterous and Resilient. To maintain 
this power, you must continue to expend one Willpower Trait per 
round after the first round. You may only spend one Willpower Trait 
per round toward this Discipline. 
Wooden Tongues 
This power allows you to gain information from inanimate objects. You 
may attempt to gain impressions of what the object has experienced by 
succeeding in a static Mental Challenge against the object (difficulty 
determined by Storyteller). The object’s memories are limited and its 
feelings may be completely alien to you, but any information gained can be 
extremely valuable. This use of the Discipline usually requires the assistance 
of a Narrator. To enact this power, you must expend a Mental Trait. 
Intermediate 
Animate the Unmoving 
This power allows you to animate objects that are within line of 
sight. With the expenditure of one Willpower Trait and a successful 
Static Challenge, you can call upon an object to perform a simple task. 
Chairs can run, statues can walk or attack, and a stake could squirm out 
of someone’s hand. You may keep the object active past the first round 
at the cost of one Mental Trait per extra round. The Narrator should 
determine the Traits of the object. 
Elemental Form 
With the expenditure of one BloodTrait, you can assume the form 
of an inanimate object of equal size and weight to your own (e.g., a 
chair, desk, pillar, etc.). You may opt also to spend one Willpower 
Trait at the time of change, which allows you to have access to your 
senses and Disciplines. There is no cost to return to your original form. 
Advanced 
Summon Elemental 
This power allows you to beckon one of the traditional elementals 
of myth (fire, water, air and earth). You must succeed in a Static 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mental Challenge against 10 Traits to summon the elemental. Then 
you must win a Simple Test to control the creature. If you fail the 
Simple Test, the elemental attacks you. If it is controlled, you may 
banish the elemental at will. See Laws of the Wild for the statistics of 
the elementals. The duration of this power is one hour. 
Corruption 
All of these powers require that the target be within arm’s reach 
of the caster. Setites cannot learn this Path without first learning the 
Path of Blood. 
Basic 
Contradict 
You can make the target say or do the opposite of her intended 
action. A left turn becomes a right turn, or a yes becomes no. You must 
defeat the target in a Mental Challenge to have this effect. 
Disfigurement 
This Discipline allows you to make minor changes to a target’s 
facial features for the night. You could remove eyebrows, lengthen the 
target’s nose, or enlarge her ears. This ability is not powerful enough 
to disguise an individual completely or even to make the target 
unrecognizable. You must succeed in a Mental Challenge against the 
target. If you are successful, the target receives the Negative Trait 
Repulsive x 2 for the remainder of the evening. 
Intermediate 
Change Mind 
You can change the Demeanor of your target for the evening. The 
victim is affected by drastic mood swings immediately, as her De- 
meanor changes to your choice. This power requires a successful 
Mental Challenge. 
Cripple 
This power allows you to turn your victim into an invalid for a 
round. The target may not initiate Physical Challenges and must bid 
three extraTraits in any Physical Challenge initiated against her. You 
must expend a Willpower Trait and win a Mental Challenge against 
the victim. For each level of Fortitude the target possesses, you must 
expend an additional Mental Trait. You may opt to extend the time 
of affliction at a cost of one Mental Trait per minute. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Advanced 
Corrupt Soul 
After the expenditure of a Willpower Trait in addition to a 
successful Mental Challenge, you can change your target’s Nature for 
the evening. This ability is a more intense version of Change Mind and 
can warp the victim’s very essence. 
Vicissitude 
Master 
Body Arsenal 
You can use your own body to create weapons. You can 
manifest claws similar to the Protean power Wolfs Claws, but this 
power goes far beyond that. By expending a Blood Trait and 
investing one Mental Trait per Physical Trait of the weapon (up to 
but not exceeding three Traits) you may can create any melee 
weapon you can imagine (i.e., sword, club, dagger, whip, etc.) from 
your flesh. No projectile weapons can be created by the use of this 
power. Weapons thus created inflict aggravated wounds. Note: 
This power never allows more than a three-Trait bonus at any one 
time, nor does it add to the Traits one acquires by switching to 
Horrid Form. 
Plasmic Form 
You can turn parts of your body to blood and then reform 
them later. You choose what parts of your body to turn to blood. 
If you so desire, you may manipulate the blood once it has been 
created. You can move any or all of the blood, and travel through 
cracks, under doors, etc. You are immune to all physical attacks 
other than fire and sunlight while in this form. You can travel as 
a pool of red liquid or appear completely normal except for the red 
coloration (although you will still be a mass of blood held in a 
bipedal form by surface tension). In this state you can speak and 
walk normally. 
When in this form, your body parts are not solid to bullets and 
fists splash harmlessly through you. You will not be able to “hit” 
anyone, drink blood or engage in other physical activity except as 
noted above. You may only use Mental and Social Disciplines 
while in this form. To activate this power you must expend two 
Blood Traits. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Visceratika 
Kindred of the Gargoyle bloodline are the only vampires who can 
possess this Discipline. 
Basic 
Skin of the Chameleon 
By expending a Blood Trait, you can make your skin take on the 
texture of your surroundings. By standing still or moving very 
slowly (one step per three seconds) you blend in so well you cannot 
be seen by normal eyes. Characters with Heightened Senses may opt 
to do a Mental Challenge against your Physical Traits to find you. 
(Note: Unlike Unseen Presence, this power is not a trick of the mind 
and does not cause characters to actively avoid your location.) You 
may move and speak while utilizing this power, but its usefulness is 
nullified at that point. 
Whispers of the Chamber 
With the expenditure of a Willpower Trait, you are able to 
attune yourself to detect intruders within an enclosed area. The area 
can be as large as a small apartment (about 30' by 30') with which you 
are intimately familiar. This power works even if the intruders are 
out of sight, in darkness or protected by Obfuscate. If the target is 
actively seeking to avoid being detected, a Mental Challenge versus 
the target is in order. 
Intermediate 
Voices of the Castle 
As Whispers of the Chamber, but affecting an entire building or 
physical structure. 
Advanced 
Bond with Terra 
Similar to the Protean power Earth Meld, this power allows you 
to melt into stone, brick or asphalt. However, this power does not 
allow you to sink deep into the protective surroundings. Instead, you 
seep just below the surface and a faint outline of your form can be 
seen above where you rest. This power protects from both fire and the 
sun. If an adversary attempts to harm you, the surrounding rock 
effectively gives you five extra Healthy Traits. This power requires 
the expenditure of a Blood Trait. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Master 
Stonestrength 
Your flesh hardens and takes on a very distinct rocklike quality. 
Every manifestation of this power is different in appearance. For some 
it results in a look of polished marble, while others resemble rough 
granite. Your skin becomes rock hard and pain is deadened, giving you 
the extra Physical Trait Tough (above and beyond the maximum 
allowed by generation). You are immune to wound penalties and take 
only half damage from fire. 
Rockheart 
Your innards become rocklike. You are considered to have 
double Health Levels against physical attacks that do piercing or 
smashing damage. To stake you, your attacker must at least have 
Puissance. (Note: If this power is used in conjunction with Flesh of 
Marble no extra Health Levels are gained, but it now takes three tests 
to stake you.) 
Rituals 
Basic 
Blood Walk 
This ritual allows you to trace the lineage of a subject. By winning 
a Simple Test, you may learn the identity of the target’s sire. You can 
continue testing in order to learn successive ancestors, though a single 
failure ends the ritual. Each successive test requires the same time 
investment as the initial ritual. 
Calling the Restless Spirit 
By enacting this ritual, you can summonup aghost for five minutes 
of conversation after succeeding on a Simple Test. Any interruption 
ends the conversation. You must be within 10 feet of the corpse, or in 
the area of a haunting in the case of wraiths. This power gives you no 
control over the spirit in question, who is not required to do the 
summoner’s bidding. This will work on a vampire who has died the 
Final Death, but not through diablerie. 
Donning the Mask of Shadows 
By casting this ritual, you are able to conceal yourself in shadows, 
much as the Obfuscate power Unseen Presence. For each Mental Trait 
invested, you have the ability to become invisible for one hour. All 
benefits and liabilities for Unseen Presence apply. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mourning Life Curse 
This one-hour ritual may be prepared ahead of time, requiring 
crocodile blood, and completed before the end of the evening. By 
whispering the final word in the ear of a mortal, you cause said mortal 
to cry tears of blood. There is no known defense, and the victim will 
continue to bleed until the caster breaks the line of sight. The effect 
is not painful, but could greatly disturb a victim. The bleeding is slow, 
causing loss of one Blood Trait per every five minutes. As well as 
normal after-effects of blood loss, the subject’s eyes will be bloodshot. 
Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion 
You are able to alter an object so as to hold a Blood Trait. The 
object must be able to fit into your hands, but no smaller than a pea. 
After receiving the Blood Trait, the object becomes reddish and slick. 
You can reclaim this blood by touching the object and willingly 
releasing it from its enchantment, causing the object to disintegrate 
and turn into the Blood Trait. Another Kindred may be incorporated 
into the ritual, allowing him to claim the Blood Trait, but he must be 
present during the initial casting. The Blood Trait used is still yours. 
This ritual takes four hours to cast. Blood contained in this manner will 
not spoil as other blood does. 
Rite of Introduction 
This ritual allows you to announce yourself to all Tremere within 
a city. After performing the ritual, which requires speaking into a 
cloud of water vapor, you may speak with a recipient for five minutes 
for every Mental Trait expended. This starts with the Regent of the 
chantry within the city and progresses to the others according to their 
knowledge of Thaumaturgy, 
from greatest to least. The casting allows 
you to write down a short introduction which is then given to all 
Tremere. If a conversation is then desired by one of the city residents, 
you must expend a Mental Trait before you may speak. Only one 
person may be spoken to at a time; traditionally, only the Regent 
replies to the announcement. 
Unless the player can produce an overwhelming reason not to 
select this Rite as her basic ritual, characters should default to Rite 
of Introduction. 
Rebirth of Mortal Vanity 
This simple ritual allows you to grow hair after the Embrace. It is also 
usable on others. A hair from a different mortal child is required for each 
inch of hair growth desired. It can be useful in facilitating disguises. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Scent of the Garou’s Passing 
Smelling a mixture of wolfsbane, milkweed and some more 
- 
arcane foul-smelling ingredients will allow you to detect the pres- 
ence of a Garou. A Mental Challenge must be won against the target, 
and you can only identify Garou that you have previously smelled 
before. You are able to determine the following things: gender, time 
of passage and breed. 
The Open Passage 
This ritual takes 10 minutes and a Blood Trait to cast. The 
caster traces an intricate design upon a barrier, such as a stone 
wall, which will then become insubstantial for the purpose of 
allowing someone to pass through. The ritual only lasts for one 
minute. 
Wake with Morning’s (Evening’s) Freshness 
This ritual must be performed immediately prior to going to 
sleep for the day. Complete meditation is required. Any interrup- 
tion, or the performance of other activities after the ritual but 
before going to sleep, renders the ritual null and void. At any sign 
of danger during the day, you will immediately awaken. You will be 
able to act normally, as if it were night, except for being able to go 
into the sun. Feathers must be burned and spread over the sleeping 
area to cast this ritual. Also, you must spend a Mental Trait to get 
the proper meditation. 
Intermediate 
Binding the Beast 
This 10-minute ritual will remove a Kindred from frenzy, 
separating him from his Beast for a short while. You need not see 
the subject; merely drink one Blood Trait from the frenzying 
character (which could have been obtained earlier), and push an 
iron spike through the palm of your hand, causing a normal 
wound. Upon completion, the target immediately emerges from 
frenzy and becomes extremely passive, gaining the Negative 
Traits Submissive x 2 for the remainder of the night. 
Bladed Hands 
This ritual requires you to expend a Blood Trait and takes 10 
minutes to cast. Upon doing so you gain the bonus Physical Trait 
Sharp until next sunrise. Be careful when handling fragile objects or 
touching people; a handshake could be dangerous. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Eyes of the Past 
By expending two Mental Traits and casting this ritual, you are 
able to view events at the location of the casting, up to five years 
prior. A specific time and date must be chosen. Up to a five-minute 
time span can be watched, and during this full sensory enchantment, 
you will be unaware of your physical surroundings. This ritual may 
only affect one room. 
Flesh of Fiery Touch 
This protective ritual causes your skin to become a lethal trap. 
Anyone who lays bare hands upon your skin will be burned. This 
ritual lasts until the next nightfall. For each touch, or once per turn 
for continued touches, the target takes one aggravated wound. 
Casually brushing against someone will not cause damage, nor will 
your clothes be set aflame. This ritual is not without its drawbacks. 
During this two-hour ritual, you must spend a Willpower Trait, and 
swallow a burning coal, which inflicts an aggravated wound. This 
can be reduced with Fortitude or healed as normal. While you are 
enchanted, your skin has a noticeable bronze tint and feels hot to 
anyone touching it. The effect works only for skin on skin - 
even 
a thin layer of clothing destroys the effect. 
Gentle Mind 
With this ritual, you are able to bestow an extra two Willpower 
Traits upon the subject for the purpose of resisting frenzy. You and the 
target must exchange one Blood Trait each, consuming one from the 
subject in order to cast this ritual; the caster may never cast this on 
himself. The extra Willpower Trait can only be used to resist frenzy 
and nothing else. The duration of this ritual is one night. 
Haunted House 
This ritual may be cast on any Kindred’s haven. After casting, 
rumors begin to circulate of the location being haunted, leading 
many to shun it. Even those who profess disbelief will avoid the 
place. You must spend three Blood Traits to cast this ritual, with 
more Blood Traits increasing the effect. The ritual will last for 10 
years, at which time, mortals will begin to rationalize the place as 
merely run-down or just weird. Most vampires treat this ritual as a 
breach of the Masquerade. 
Heart of Stone 
By casting this ritual, your heart turns to solid stone, leaving 
you immune to staking. The ritual requires an earthen circle three 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


inches high and six feet in diameter to be formed on a natural stone 
surface (poured stone, such as concrete, is not acceptable). You 
must lie prone in the center and place a lighted candle directly over 
your heart, allowing it to burn down. This causes one aggravated 
wound. The ritual will last as long as the caster desires, dispelled 
with a thought. While under this enchantment, you cannot spend 
Willpower. If you are forced to spend Willpower, the ritual ends 
immediately. While under the effects of this ritual, you lose all 
Friendly or Compassionate Social Traits, and gain a number of 
Callous Negative Social Traits equal to half your remaining allot- 
ment of Social Traits. 
Illusion of Peaceful Death 
This ritual heals visible wounds on a corpse, making it appear 
as if the person has died of natural causes. It does not add blood to 
a corpse, but will remove reasons for a person to check for blood 
loss. At least half of a full Blood Pool must be in the body for this 
ritual to work. You must “dust” the corpse with a white feather and 
expend two Mental Traits. 
Innocence of the Child’s Heart 
This ritual hides your aura from Aura Perception. Anyone using 
that Discipline successfully upon you sees a white aura, devoid of any 
signs of vampirism. A mortal child’s toy must be carried throughout 
the duration of the ritual, which lasts for one hour per Mental Trait 
invested at the time of the casting. 
Protean Curse 
The target of this ritual is turned into a bat, as with the Protean 
Discipline Form of the Beast. The target must drink a Blood Trait 
taken from a rabid vampire bat. If the target is unwilling, the caster 
must defeat him in a Physical Challenge. This ritual affects only 
Kindred and humans, and lasts only one night. 
Rending Sweet Earth 
With this ritual you can open a 10-foot by 10-foot opening into 
the earth, leading to an Earth Melded vampire. If the Earth Melded 
Kindred is asleep, he is automatically awakened, but will not do so 
if in torpor. The ritual must be cast exactly where the vampire 
entered the ground. The caster strikes the ground repeatedly with 
a leather whip and must defeat the subject in a Mental Challenge. 
If the target is in torpor, the ritual automatically works. The effect 
lasts only for a single night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Unseen Change 
This ritual requires marking an area with wolfs blood poured from 
a silver jug and investing a number of Mental Traits. Any Garou 
entering the area must win a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty 
determined by the number of invested Traits, or be forced to automati- 
cally change to Lupus form and stay that way while within the circle. 
Once activated, the ritual remains in effect for one evening. 
The Watcher 
This ritual summons a rat, who then goes wherever the caster 
directs and looks for whatever the caster indicates. When the rat 
returns, the caster may touch its head and see what it has seen. The 
caster may even have the rat steal small objects, but she must be 
exacting in detail about the object’s appearance and location to 
avoid mistakes. You must win a Static Social Challenge, the 
difficulty determined by the number of rats nearby, in order to cast 
this ritual. It lasts until next sunrise. The summoned rat is still 
subject to Animalism Disciplines. 
Advanced 
Blood Contract 
Using a Blood Trait, you create a binding agreement between 
two parties. If either party willingly breaches the agreement, the 
result is Final Death of he who broke the pact. Both parties must use 
a Blood Trait to sign the agreement. The only way to dissolve the 
commitment is to complete one’s part of the contract, or to physi- 
cally burn the agreement. 
Curse of Clytaemnestra 
Through use of this ritual, you are able to destroy one male 
mortal (including ghouls) by aging him rapidly, decaying him into 
nothing. You must have a personal possession of the subject, as well 
as at least one Blood Trait. The ritual takes one full day to cast. The 
target can resist by winning a Static Physical Challenge, the diffi- 
culty determined by the number of Blood Traits invested by the 
caster during the ritual. If the subject ties, then he is merely crippled 
and takes three normal wounds. 
Stone Slumber 
By casting this ritual, which must start two hours before dawn, you 
are turned into stone at sunrise. Similar to any other stone statue, you 
can be moved from place to place, even through sunlight, remaining 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


a statue until sunset. To rise from this form, three Blood Traits must 
be expended, as opposed to the normal one. You are immune to staking 
and most forms of fire. Pieces can be broken off, though, doing 
however much damage the Narrator decides. Most forms of commu- 
nication are impossible, as the caster’s mind is dormant. While in 
statue form, all of your Physical Traits are changed to Enduring, and 
you have double the Health Levels with regards to any physical 
damage attempted upon you. Activating this ritual requires the 
expenditure of two Mental Traits and a piece of rock broken off from 
another statue. 
Clan Assamite Rituals 
The Tremere are not the sole masters of Thumturgy. The 
Assamites have developed a number of rituals since their curse at the 
hands of the Tremere. You are required to have mastery of the 
appropriate level of the Quietus discipline to be able to learn one of 
these rituals of the same level. 
Basic 
Blood of Peace 
A BloodTrait can be converted into asleeping elixir with this ritual. 
It takes 10 minutes and two Blood Traits to cast this ritual. After the 
Blood Trait has been enchanted, it may be applied to a subject through 
ingestion or contact with the skin. You must then defeat the victim in 
a Mental Challenge; success indicates the target falls into a deep sleep 
which lasts for at least 10 minutes. Only extremely violent actions have 
a chance to wake a sleeper. This ritual works only on mortals. 
Blood Call 
Through use of this ritual you create a limited form of mental 
contact between yourself and another. Both parties involved must 
give two Blood Traits during the casting of the ritual, and then expend 
a permanent Mental Trait each. Afterward, if either party is destroyed, 
the other receives a vision containing the details of the demise. 
Intermediate 
Light of Vengeance 
A focused artificial light source (such as a lamp or flashlight) can 
be changed into a weapon with almost the power of the sun. You must 
expend a Blood Trait and smear it on the light source. When you wish 
to attack someone with the light, you must win a Mental Challenge 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A
A
A
A
A
I
I
 
versus the target’s Physical Traits. Success means that the target takes 
an aggravated wound. The ritual lasts until all of the Blood Traits 
smeared upon the light source are used up or until the end of the 
evening, when the blood is considered to have evaporated. Each 
successful attack burns a Blood Trait from the light source, and the 
attacks can only be directed at a single target. 
Advanced 
Healing Blood 
The healing of aggravated wounds becomes much easier with the 
use of this ritual. Upon meditating for 10 minutes and expending two 
Mental Traits, you can heal an aggravated wound with only one Blood 
Trait, and no expenditure of Willpower. There is no limit to the 
number of aggravated wounds that may be healed in one night with the 
casting of this ritual, but all wounds to be healed at the less expensive 
cost must be healed immediately following this ritual. Any action 
other than healing aggravated wounds ends the ritual immediately. 
Basic 
Craft Bloodstone 
Through this ritual, you may create a small mystical object called 
a Bloodstone. A Bloodstone acts as a magical beacon for the person to 
whom it is attuned. Once you have attuned a Bloodstone, you may 
sense its exact location in a nonvisual manner. This enchantment 
usually lasts for a century or so, although some have lasted for as long 
as 500 years. To create a Bloodstone, you must find a suitable stone and 
leave it within a container holding at least three Traits of your Blood 
for three nights. Each night you must chant over the container as the 
Bloodstone absorbs each Blood Trait. After the third night, the liquid 
within the container becomes clear like water. The ritual may be 
ended here, allowing you to sense the location of the Bloodstone 
wherever it is. 
You can infuse more Blood Traits into the stone, at the rate of one 
each evening. These Blood Traits can be retrieved by anyone holding 
the Bloodstone at a rate of one per evening. You must win a Static 
Mental Challenge against a difficulty of five Traits each time the 
incantation is cast over the Bloodstone. This ritual can also be cast upon 
a pre-existing Bloodstone to attune it to you, as well as recharge it. 
“i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Eyes of the Nighthawk 
This ritual allows you to receive the audio and visual informa- 
tion obtained by a bird. First you must touch the bird and feed it 
a specially prepared birdseed mixed with your blood. You must 
win a Static Mental Challenge against the bird (difficulty of five 
Traits). Upon success, you can then mentally control it, but 
where it will travel only. To receive information, you must close 
your eyes and concentrate; this action will leave you unaware of 
your current surroundings and unable to act until you break 
concentration. This ritual lasts for one month before it must be 
cast again. 
Illuminate Trail of the Prey 
Through the use of this ritual, you are able to view the trail of a 
target - 
footprints, tire tracks, airplane trajectories, etc. - 
as a 
glowing neon trail. However, the trail ends as soon as the target wades 
through or submerses himself in water. You must have viewed the 
target and have a starting point where the target has been in the past. 
The trail begins at the starting point, following the movements of the 
target, with the intensity of the glow being indirectly proportional to 
the amount of time which has passed since the target was present at the 
location. The caster must defeat the target in a Mental Challenge in 
order to track him. 
Impassable Trail 
By wrapping your feet in soft deerskin, you can pass through the 
thickest woods without leaving any visible trail. You must expend one 
dexterity-related Physical Trait to enact this ritual. The duration is an 
entire evening. 
This Ritual works only in non-urban settings, though there are 
rumors that “advances” have been made allowing for the effects to 
function in even the heart of the urban jungle. 
Machine Blitz 
By casting this ritual, you can cause machines in the area to go 
haywire. You must expend a Mental Trait for each turn you desire this 
ritual to remain in effect. The enchantment allows machines a limited 
amount of movement, performing activity similar to their normal 
functions, even to the point of attacking whomever the caster desires. 
Any attacks use the caster’s Mental Traits with a two-Trait penalty. 
The actual results should be determined between the involved parties, 
or by a Narrator. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Power of the Invisible Flame 
This simple ritual allows one who knows Path of the Flame to 
create invisible fires. The effects can be felt as normal, but aren’t 
visible. The ritual lasts for one evening, and must be cast around a fire 
of at least torch size. Each time you wish to make invisible flames, you 
must expend a Mental Trait. You must have the Path of the Flame 
before you can learn this ritual. 
Preserve Blood 
By casting this ritual, you are able to prepare blood against 
spoiling, keeping it in a specially prepared earthenware container. The 
container must be prepared by burying it in earth for two nights. 
Thereafter, the container must be dug up. The blood is added, and the 
container is sealed with wax. Once opened, the blood spoils at a 
normal rate. You must win a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of 
four Traits) in order to cast this ritual successfully. 
Steps of the Terrified 
This ritual allows you to slow down a specific target. You must win 
a Mental Challenge against the target. Afterward, each turn the 
victim tries to run she is slowed to half her speed. A normal run would 
only go half as far, while someone using Celerity would only get half as 
many actions as normal to run away, possibly slowing her downenough 
for lower levels of Celerity to catch her. As the victim tries to run each 
turn, she slows down by half again, eventually to a walk. The ritual 
requires a small cube of dried mud, perfectly square on all sides. 
Summon Guardian Spirit 
Through use of this ritual, you are able to summon a spirit for the 
next 24 hours to guard you. The spirit cannot do more than warn you of 
danger through interaction with the surrounding environment. It 
cannot speak and is only visible to you, and then only in times ofdanger. 
You cannot be surprised for the duration of the ritual. You must win a 
Static Social Challenge (difficulty of five Traits) to summon the spirit. 
Will 0’ the Wisp 
This simple ritual allows you to produce a supernatural light source. This 
ball of light can be mentally commanded to travel within your sight, and 
even perform simple tricks. The ball may become brighter, dimmer, separate 
into smaller balls, dart about, encompass someone in its glow, etc. It is most 
often used as a simple light source or diversion. A willow branch is required 
in the casting. This ritual will last as long as you concentrate on it. A Mental 
Trait must be expended each hour you wish the light to remain active. 
e 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Bottled Voice 
By winning a Mental Challenge versus the target, speaking an 
incantation and gesturing toward an empty bottle, you are able to trap 
the target’s voice within a bottle. The bottle must be sealed with wax 
in addition to any other closure, such as acork. While the seal or bottle 
remains intact, the target cannot speak. 
Eldritch Glimmer 
By casting this ritual, you are able to surround yourself in a green 
glow. You can then throw fire bolts of this energy at a cost of one Blood 
Trait per bolt. These bolts inflict one aggravated wound, and may only 
be cast at the rate of one per turn. You must win a Mental Challenge 
versus the target’s Physical Traits in order to hit. Each time a bolt is 
fired, you must win a Simple Test or expend a Mental Trait to keep the 
ritual from ending. The ritual’s duration is only until the next dawn. 
This ritual requires a piece of sandstone soaked in vinegar. 
Fire Walker 
This ritual protects you from fire for up to an hour. Whenever you 
are attacked by fire and win a Simple Test, no damage is taken. A 
special salve must be rubbed on the soles of your feet, and two Mental 
Traits must be spent to cast this ritual. 
Friend of the Trees 
Anyone who tries to follow you through woods after you cast 
this ritual is immediately subject to interference from the sur- 
rounding foliage. These plants animate slightly, slowing down 
pursuers to half speed. You must plant an acorn and spend two 
Mental Traits to cast this ritual. It lasts as long as you remain in the 
woods or until the next sunrise. 
The Haunting 
By casting this ritual, you may summon a malevolent spirit to 
cause fear in a target. Like a poltergeist, this spirit will play tricks on 
a subject, but its intentions are to frighten, to death if it can. This 
spirit usually has little effect on Kindred, but it will make werewolves 
uneasy and frighten mortals. The spirit cannot directly harm the 
victim, but if it wins a Social Challenge against her, the spirit makes 
Simple Tests until it loses to determine how much harm it can do. 
One success freezes the target in place for a few minutes; two causes 
her to faint; three causes her to become Incapacitated. Four can kill 
the target unless she wins a Static Physical Challenge, the difficulty 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


equal to the spirit’s Social Traits. Survivors may awaken to find their 
hair turned white from the experience. Exactly what the spirit does 
and how long it haunt the victim is determined by the Narrator 
playing the spirit. 
Keening of the Banshee 
Wirh a horrifying scream, you can cause the person nearest to you 
to age 13 years minus his total Physical Traits. His hair also turns white. 
You must win a Mental Challenge against the target in order to affect 
him. This ritual requires a necklace with a pendant carved from an old 
tombstone. This does nothing to Kindred but can harm mortals, 
ghouls and werewolves. 
Mirror Walk 
With this ritual, you are able to enter a mirror of a size big enough 
to crawl through. This allows you to use the mirror as agate to the nearest 
mirror of large enough size to allow you access. You may safely take one 
person with you through the mirror. The mirror seems to liquefy, ripples 
cascading across the surface, returning to normal after you have gone 
through. You must be wearing a ring with an emerald when this ritual 
is in effect. If you are being chased, this ritual may be used as a Fair Escape. 
However, the pursuers, or anyone within five feet of the mirror when this 
is cast, may immediately state their intention to follow you through the 
mirror; otherwise the opportunity to follow is lost. 
If the person does not come through the mirror willingly, she must 
win a Static Physical Challenge against a difficulty of 6 or be killed, 
one half of her lying in front of the entrance mirror and the other half 
lying in front of the exit mirror. You must expend three Mental Traits 
to enact this ritual. 
Respect of the Animals 
Through use of this ritual you are able to travel through wilderness 
areas without danger from animals. Animals neither like nor dislike 
you, but simply ignore you. Two Social Traits must be expended to 
enact this ritual, which lasts four hours. 
Touch of Nightshade 
This ritual gives you a touch that is literally fatal. After you have cast 
this ritual, the first mortal you touch must engage in a Physical 
Challenge with you. Ifhe loses, he dies, instantly and painfully. Ifhe ties, 
he is in severe pain from cramps for the rest of the evening, and is down 
two Traits in all tests during that time. Winning the Challenge allows 
the victim to avoid the effects, but he remains unaware of the attack. To 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


complete this ritual you must rub juice from some form of nightshade 
onto your hands. The attack is only good for a single target; the second 
mortal you touch after performing the ritual is safe from its effects. 
Advanced 
Dominion 
This three-hour ritual, the effects of which last for a week, provides 
an effective defense against certain vampiric Disciplines. Proper 
casting of this ritual renders an area up to 500 square feet immune to 
all effects of Animalism, Dominate and Presence, except those you 
yourself create. Preparing the area properly mandates that iron seals be 
embedded over all doors within the area of effect, and they must 
remain so for the duration of the ritual’s effect. If any of the seals are 
marred or removed, the effect ends instantly. You must expend three 
Mental Traits to cast this ritual. 
Eyes of the Beast 
Similar to Eyes of the Nighthawk, this ritual allows you to see 
through the eyes of any animal you have previously enchanted to serve 
as a conduit for the power. To prepare an animal properly, you must 
touch it on the forehead (not as easy as it sounds) and then win a Static 
Mental Challenge against seven Traits. Thereafter (at least for the 
duration of the ritual), you can close your eyes and, by concentrating, 
see through the enchanted beast’s eyes. The ritual’s effects last for six 
weeks, no matter how far the animal wanders from you. You may only 
cast this ritual on one animal at a time. 
Lion Heart 
By casting this ritual, you may increase your combat abilities. The 
ritual bestows upon you the Physical Traits Brumy, Tough, Quick and 
Enduring. When in a challenge that might cause you to flee, or be 
subject to a Fear frenzy, you gain an extra Willpower Trait. Finally, you 
also gain two Abilities in Brawl and two Abilities in Leudership. This 
ritual only lasts for 20 minutes. A Willpower Trait must be spent in 
order to enact this ritual. If you do not rest within two hours after the 
completion of this ritual, you will take one Health Level of damage for 
every 10 minutes you do not rest. The amount of time necessary to be 
considered rested is one hour. 
Mindcrawler 
An insidious force within a victim’s mind is created by this ritual. 
You must place your hand upon a victim’s head, which may require a 
Physical Challenge; the victim feels a slight burning sensation. For 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


L 
each day afterward, the victim loses one Mental Trait until all are lost. 
After all Mental Traits are lost, the ritual ceases. The victim may 
regain these lost Traits by putting forth effort in recovering them, at 
a rate of one Mental Trait per week. You must dye a small tick red, 
paint it with an arcane sigil, crush it, apply it to the victim’s head, and 
then win a Mental Challenge against the target. 
Paper Flesh 
For one night, the victim of this ritual is bereft of most of the 
benefits of Fortitude and endurance-related Physical Traits. Victims of 
eighth generation or higher lose all but one endurance-related Physi- 
cal Traits and Fortitude powers. With each succeeding generation, the 
victim hangs onto an additional Trait and Fortitude power. 
In order to inflict Paper Fksh on a target, you must defeat her in a 
Mental Challenge and subsequently tear a picture of her in half. 
Spirit of Torment 
Similar to The Haunting, this ritual lets you summon a spirit to do 
your bidding. This time, the spirit is capable of taking on physical form 
and doing real damage to others. 
In order to summon the spirit, you must win a Social Challenge. 
Once the challenge is won, the spirit obeys your commands to the 
letter, until to it takes damage to its physical form. At that point, the 
spirit flees. 
The spirit has 13 Physical Traits, three Social Traits and seven 
Mental Traits. It has three Willpower Traits, the Abilities of Brawl x 
4, Intimidate x 3 and Occult. It also has the following Disciplines: 
Heightened Senses, Aura Perception, Might, Unseen Presence, Musk of 
1000 Faces and Cloak the Gathering. When trying to frighten someone, 
the spirit gains three bonus Social Traits (Frightening x 3). Further- 
more, by winning a Mental Challenge, the spirit can see and identify 
anything in the local Near Umbra. 
In its normal form, the spirit is incorporeal, but it can spend a 
Mental Trait in order to become corporeal for five minutes. The 
appearance, actions and other details of the spirit are left to the 
discretion of the Narrator. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


1 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Though you should be going to live tkthousand years, and as many 
times ten thousand years, still remember that no one loses any other life than 
this which they now live, nor lives any other than this which they now lose. 
- 
The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius, Book I 
Symbols of Authority 
Tonight it will finally happen: You will roleplay an elder Kindred 
in your game of The Masquerade. Your Storyteller agreed to let you 
take the plunge, and you spent the better portion of last night 
determining your character’s Attribute Traits, Abilities, Influences 
and Disciplines. You relish the thought of entering tonight’s session 
armed with enhanced powers, an increased number of Blood Traits 
and the ability to thumb your nose at any other Kindred who tries to 
use Dominate on you. You savor the thought of enforcing your 
character’s every desire with the threat of serious retribution should 
anyone dare gainsay you, and you eagerly anticipate the first challenge 
to your authority. You are definitely ready for anything! 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


There is no denying that playing an elder Kindred can be a genuine 
adrenaline rush. Your character is, after all, one of the most powerful beings 
in the game, and there is little you could not accomplish through sheer force, 
threats or outright violence. But there is more -far more -to roleplaying 
an elder than increased character statistics and access to higher levels of your 
Disciplines. Portraying an elder can mean your greatest roleplaying chal- 
lenge yet, a task which calls upon every ounce of skill you can muster. This 
is doubly true if you take the time to consider what being an elder vampire 
really means in the context of a game. In this chapter you will learn helpful 
hints a b u t  roleplaying an elder character convincingly, as well as advice on 
interacting with other characters. Most importantly, you will come to 
understandtheveryrealresponsibilities inherent in your role asanelder, and 
the necessity of recognizing the benefits of cooperative roleplaying to 
enhance The Masquerade experience for everyone involved. 
Defining the Role - Who Are 
the Elders? 
I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls. My skin is black 
upon me, and my bones are burned with heat. 
-Job 30: 29-30 
The fledgling Kindred nightly finds herself beset on all sides by 
dangers both numerous and lethal. Warring vampire sects vie for her 
loyalty, lawless anarchs seek her precious vitae, and master manipulators 
pull her strings from the shadows. Seductive compliments artfully camou- 
flage a bewildering array of offers and counteroffers. Polite conversations 
mask honeyed promises of grand rewards and veiled threats. She faces 
demands for her obedience and appeals to her Humanity. She gingerly 
picks her way through her first nights among the Kindred, hoping to avoid 
enlisting unintentionally an elder’s pet cause. 
Precisely who are these powerful, aged Kindred who tempt her? 
How can they be so equally at home within both the city’s darkened 
alleys and its brilliantly lit salons? W h y  do they seek her participation in 
their schemes when they could as easily slay her, or bend her will to their 
own with their centuries-old power? Why should such as they care one 
whit for the alliance of one so young and seemingly helpless as she? 
“They” are the elders, the Kindred who have withstood the test of time 
to survive beyond their neonate years and their ancilla decades to greet 
the centuries anew each night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The exact point at which a vampire gains the designation of “elder” is 
not clear. Most Kindred agree that when a vampire manages to survive at 
least several centuries, she may begin using the title “elder” with some 
justification. The longevity requirement varies immensely around the 
world. To become an elder in Europe, for example, requires centuries more 
than it would in the New World. Despite these chronological disparities, 
elders are generally between 200 and 1,000 years old, give or take a century, 
and they are by and large Kindred of at least the eighth generation. What 
makes such characters so attractive to Mind’s Eye Theatre players? 
The Joy of Elders 
Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? 
- 
Genesis 18: 25 
Elder characters are, by their very nature, more powerful than the 
average neonate or ancilla character. The elder’s amassed strength is 
due largely to the fact that she has lived for so much longer than her 
younger cousins, gaining access over time to a greater number and 
wider range of Abilities, Influences and Disciplines. She gains a 
decided advantage in many situations, which many players can find 
appealing. Consider the practical advantages of an elder character: 
-The elder’s Blood Pool is greater than that of younger vampires, 
for she has learned over the centuries the means to extract the very last 
iota of supernatural energy from the vitae she consumes. 
- 
An elder has honed her Attributes so that her limitations exceed 
those of most non-elder characters. For example, an elder may call upon a 
deeper reserve of Willpower, enabling her to compel or resist compulsion 
more readily than younger characters. These physical characteristics, in 
addition to age, are a large part of the reason why elders are usually treated 
with some modicum of respect. After all, it doesn’t pay to mouth off to one 
who could leave your bones in splinters or wipe your mind clean like a slate. 
- 
This enhanced reputation and respect often translates into 
actual status. Elders are, with few exceptions, influential figures in 
Kindred society, holding ranks as princes and primogen or bishops and 
paladins. Whatever their allegiance - 
Camarilla, Sabbat, or anarch 
- 
elders frequently occupy positions of authority, and are loath to 
surrender them to ambitious childer. To reinforce this pecking order, 
younger vampires are taught by their own sires and elders to heed the 
older members of their respective clan and sect and maintain a healthy 
respect for those elders of other clans as well. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Playing an elder Kindred enables you to contribute a new element to your 
Mind’s Eye Theatre game. An elder character has the potential to add a 
significant layer of depth to an existing chronicle. Your Storyteller may thrust 
you into the thick of any number of pre-existing conflicts, or she may use your 
character to introduce a new subplot or theme. An elder’s impact on a story 
is almost immediately noticeable. For example, an elder automatically 
becomes a focal point for a variety of plots and subplots, simply due to her age 
and status. When younger Kindred are faced with puzzles, problems and 
mysteries, they often turn to their elders for direction. Your reaction to such 
pleas will determine the extent to which you become involved in these plots. 
Later you may recognize that your character influences the game in 
more subtle ways. Let’s say a current storyline includes an anarch pack 
lurking on the fringes of the city’s vampire society. Then your character 
arrives. The anarchs will certainly want to know more about any elder 
who shows up in their city, and any elder would want to know more 
about potential diablerists. Your character may have to contend with 
anarch surveillance teams, or a test of her haven’s defenses. She may 
even find herself squaring off against the anarchs later in the chronicle 
when the pack decides fully to announce its presence. Similarly, your 
character may unexpectedly tip the balance of power in favor of a 
particular clan. Are you playing a Toreador Artiste? Her arrival might 
spark a new wave of plans, both between clan members and any rival 
clans in the vicinity. From the first night your character enters the story, 
you should have no difficulty locating a plethora of conflicts and 
alliances. In fact, you may have to beat them away with a stick. 
Harbingers of Doom 
As far as we can discern, the sole purpose of human existence is to kindle 
- 
Carl Jung, Memories, Dreams, Reflections 
Power, even fictional power, is a drug, and there’s no denying it is its 
own high. However, it is vital to recognize the equally indisputable fact 
that a proliferation of very powerful characters, or even one moderately 
powerful character played in an irresponsible fashion, can spell disaster for 
any chronicle. Great power requires great responsibility, even in a make- 
believe setting. It is far easier to destroy a chronicle than to create one, 
particularly within the live-action roleplaying paradigm. Your character 
can be the proverbial double-edged sword unless you are prepared to 
approach the task with some measure of responsibility and respect. 
a light of meaning in the darkness of mere being. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Responsible Roleplaying 
Do not harbor sinister designs 
- 
Miyamoto Musashi, The Book of Five Rings 
Just as a rock thrown into the center of a pond causes ripples which 
eventually reach to the water’s edge, so elders cause ripples on numerous 
levels. Recognize that your own character could have a similar effect on 
the game. Examine your character’s abilities and powers in relation to 
the other characters in the game. Does your Ventrue possess Presence far 
beyond that attained by the majority of other Ventrue characters around 
him? Is your Tzimisce paladin the epitome of nocturnal horror, while 
your fellow packmates might be hard-pressed to intimidate a Toreador 
fledgling? If you recognize a disparity of this nature between your own 
character and those around you, you have an obligation not to ride 
roughshod simply because it is within your ability to do so. Rather, you 
should become one of the stewards of the story, helping to guide its ebb 
and flow in the most enjoyable directions. 
The Masquerade is a cooperative storytelling experience. Each 
participant -player, Narrator, Storyteller - 
contributes in her own 
manner to the overall success of the story. The game depends entirely 
on the interactions between the various characters, and it is vital that 
you recognize that all the participants want to enjoy the experience as 
much as you do. Beating other characters into torpor each game 
session may be fun for you, but it’s rarely enjoyable for the players on 
the receiving end. Violent acts that drastically affect other characters 
should occur within the context of the story itself, not as a method of 
dealing with other characters just because you can. It’s one thing to 
discipline a neonate who thought she could mouth off to an elder, but 
entirely another to pick fights so you can show off your elder’s Traits. 
Creating an Elder Character 
Working With Your Storyteller 
Elder characters have the wherewithal to guide the game - 
indeed, they can (sometimes unintentionally) set the story’s tone and 
pacing for an entire night, or even for the duration of a chronicle. 
Therefore, it is vital that you and the Storyteller be on the same page 
when you start creating the character. Set aside some time for you and 
the Storyteller to discuss your character’s place in the story, and 
consider how your concept will fit into the existing framework. What 
might appear to be a perfect fit to you may actually be to the story’s 
” 
4 
. 
” 
U 
U 
U 
U 
u 
II 
U 
II 
u 
I] 
u 
U 
U 
u
-
 
99 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


detriment. The character may simply not mesh with the storyline, or 
it may prove disruptive and inappropriate for story-related reasons that 
the Storyteller cannot reveal to you. The better the Storyteller 
understands your character’s powers, plans and background, the better 
she will be able to plan your character’s involvement in the story. 
Sometimes, you and your Storyteller may disagree on which charac- 
ters are suited to the story. In such cases, trust your Storyteller. Be 
understanding and flexible; she’s telling you this for a reason. If the 
Storyteller requests that you consider a different character, ask about 
character concepts and types which she believes will work with the story. 
Elder Perspectives 
The multiplying villainies of nature 
-William 
Shakespeare, Macbeth 
Elder vampires do not spring into being overnight. Any character 
who is older than most countries usually sports a rich and colorful 
personal history. Consider your character’s place in the history of the 
world and its vampire denizens - 
where has she been? What has she 
done? Where is she going? Thinking as a character who enjoys a 
potentially limitless lifespan is an exercise in advanced roleplaying, 
and one that you shouldn’t skimp on. 
Begin by thinking about your own life in comparison to the world 
events which have occurred during your lifetime. Do you remember 
the outbreak of World War 11, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the assassina- 
tionofpresident Kennedy, the Vietnam War, Watergate, U.S. hostages 
in Iran, the fall of the Berlin Wall or the Gulf War? Do you remember 
how you reacted to these events when you first read or learned about 
them? Did you understand then as well as you do now the effects these 
situations would have upon the world as you know it? 
Next, try to think about some of the major events of this century 
that you do not remember as circumstances in your life. Take World 
War I, or the Jazz Era. What about the American stock market crash 
and the Great Depression? The more distant we become from events 
the less likely we are to recall their details. T o  gain a sense of their 
impact and place in history, we turn to books, films, plays and essays 
rather than to our own memories. 
The same cannot be said for your elder vampire. She has existed 
for centuries, observing the affairs of the mortal world pass before her 
eyes as an endless parade of names, dates and headlines. How did she 
Do swarm upon him. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


react to these events? Did some of them affect her in material ways? 
Was she even aware of them as they transpired? Consider the events 
of your own life and your own perspective of time, and then magnify 
that same sensation 10 or 100 times. This marks the vast gulf in 
perspective and experience which yawns between the younger and 
older Kindred. Whereas neonates and ancillae may have observed 
several decades, or even an entire century, their sense of historical 
scope is dwarfed by that of the elders. 
Instilling your character with some of this unique perspective is 
challenging but worth the effort, and makes interaction with you more 
interesting for the other players. If you take the time to perform some 
elementary historical research on the years during which your elder 
has lived, you will be able to give a much more convincing perfor- 
mance when your character discourses with other vampires, ghouls 
and mortals. Was your Gangrel sheriff present when Robert Bruce’s 
troops fell at Bannockburn? Did your Lasombra bishop play a role in 
the Spanish Reconquista? Perhaps your Tremere insinuated himself 
among the mediums of the Age of Spiritualism, or maybe your 
Malkavian wrung her hands with glee when Nellie Bly exposed the 
horrific practices of 19th-century insane asylums. 
Your character will gain a new depth and believability when your 
knowledge of past epochs manifests itself through roleplaying. Con- 
sider choosing one or two particular historical events which your 
character witnessed and research them more thoroughly. Think of 
sensory details for these stories, memories not only of sights, but also 
sounds (the screams of wounded horses), smells (the bay leaves and 
incense burned for the Oracle at Delphi), tastes (the blood of a 
drunken French courtier) and touches (the silk dressing gown you 
wore when you read the latest Sherlock Holmes mystery to relax). 
Elder Motivations 
Ah, that Deceit should steal such gentle shape 
-William 
Shakespeare, Richard III 
What keeps you going? What are you here to accomplish? Elder 
characters require strong motives and desires to be believable. This is 
not to say that your character’s motivation must be transparent - 
indeed, your character’s desires and goals should remain concealed 
until such time as you choose to reveal them. Many (if not most) of 
your character’s actions will be dictated by her core motivations, and 
And with a virtuous vizor hide deep Vice! 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


flimsy motives will make even the best concept look unrealistic. After 
creating the bare bones of your character, turn your attention to 
developing and defining those impulses which will govern your 
character’s interactions through the story. 
Security -Though 
you embody vast powers and knowledge, 
you are by no means omnipotent or invulnerable; you will often find 
yourself caught between the hammer and the anvil. To one side are the 
Methuselahs, and perhaps the mysterious and terrifying Antediluvians. 
Elders are the pawns of choice for both groups in their eternal Jyhad. 
Those elders who are not already controlled by Methuselahs or 
Antediluvians continually struggle to avoid the same fate. Whenever 
you meet another elder, you must consider who might have their 
fingers on his strings. To the other side wait the energetic younger 
Kindred, ever ready to usurp their elders’ authority and embarrass 
them by wrecking the most carefully laid plans. Worse than this, 
however, is the terrifying prospect of the fledglings who may hunt you 
for the purpose of claiming your power as their own. Small wonder, 
then, that many elders spend their nights motivated by a desire to 
ensure their own safety amid the dangers and upheavals which 
surround them. 
Status -Elders, whether Sabbat paladins or Camarilla primogen, 
enjoy a certain elevated status among their chosen societies. Within the 
Camarilla, status is essential for the security and continued functioning 
of the sect, and is thus of paramount importance to many Kindred. 
Indeed, for some elders status and its reward are all that truly matters to 
them. Elders crave the deference of the power-hungry ancillae, the 
reverence of the neonates and the respect of their peers. Many go to great 
lengths in pursuit of additional status, and even greater lengths to 
maintain that which they already possess, buying and trading Status 
Traits as if they were the most precious commodities on Earth. Rival 
elders continually seek to diminish each other’s status, and may even 
wage subtle wars with status as the spoils of victory. 
Status loses none of its importance in the Sabbat, although it is 
based on characteristics quite different from those found in its rival 
sect. Likewise, status among Sabbat Kindred may often be utilized for 
other, unexpected purposes. Because status within the Sabbat is so 
easily gained and lost, more than a few Sabbat elders are continually 
conscious of their current status and eagerly pursue more as a means of 
controlling younger vampires and avoiding time-wasting challenges 
to their authority. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Political Power- It has been observed that power is a drug, that 
its taste is sweeter even than the most quenching blood. Elders are as 
accustomed to holding positions of temporal power as they are to 
gaining status, but for some the pursuit of the former is far more 
exhilarating and meaningful than chasing the latter (some may 
perceive power and status to be one and the same, but it is quite 
possible to have one without the other). Once an elder painstakingly 
claws her way up the ladder of Kindred society to reach the upper 
echelons, she will be more than reluctant to relinquish her success to 
the vampires occupying the rungs below. In fact, she will fight with all 
the viciousness she can command to maintain her place, for power 
allows a vampire to gain control over her immediate surroundings. 
This need to control their environment bums in the minds of many 
elders, motivating them to engage in mind-bending intrigues to 
achieve or maintain their authority. 
Power is a dangerous goal, however, for you will find it necessary to 
utilize questionable means to attain it. Advancing your personal agenda 
may require blackmail, threats, bribes and other tools of subversion. 
Politics are, by their very nature, a public pursuit; it can become difficult 
to conceal your machinations from prying eyes. If you begin to reach 
your goal, this draws rivals and others bent on usurping your hard-won 
authority. Conflicts with rivals and equally power-hungry ancillae 
intent on claiming the same prize make this motivation challenging to 
play, although many who seek power say that such challenges merely 
make the goal all the more satisfying once it is attained. 
Golconda -While the elders who actively seek this fabled state 
of inner equilibrium are rare, such Kindred do exist. The outward actions 
and appearances of an elder who navigates the uncertain waters that 
lead to atonement may not appear any different from those of the elder 
motivated by more commongoals. She strives to gain a tangible measure 
of mastery over the Beast, to deny its continual demands in order to gain 
some degree of acceptance of her own vampiric nature. This motivation 
is highly personal, and manifests itself in asomewhat more subtle fashion 
than others, for it is only through interactions with others of her own 
kind that the character understands herself enough to satisfy the 
rigorous demands of this path. 
An interesting variation on this motivation is the elder who has 
already attained Golconda and who wishes to share the gift with his 
fellow Kindred. Such a motivation, while laudable, is fraught with 
hardship and peril, for he is once again plunged into the thick of the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


horror from which he recoiled. In demonstrating his sincerity, he may 
well find himself tempted by the very acts and passions which first set 
him on this path. If he is to convince anyone else of the possibility of 
redemption, though, he must not only face his inner demons but 
prevail against them again. 
Return to Yesteryear - 
The selfsame conditions that bring 
about elders’ desire to exert excessive control may manifest themselves 
in the wish to return to the familiar customs and habits of long-dead 
ages. Some examples include the Brujah elder who gives herself 
completely over to her dream of transforming her chosen domain into 
the reincarnation of ancient Carthage, or the Tzimisce whose wish is 
to rule once again a kingdom as an omnipotent warlord as he did in the 
Carpathians three centuries past. Yearning to recreate the imagined 
glories of the past may motivate the elder to proclaim her goals publicly 
and recruit followers who listen to her tales of a better time. The elder 
may also try to manipulate events around her to reflect the world she 
enjoyed in nights gone by. 
Revenge - 
Unusual indeed is the elder who has not wronged 
and been wronged by another of her kind during her eternal existence. 
The events that light and fan the fires of vengeance are legion, and in 
many cases your search for retribution may seem right in your eyes. 
Perhaps a rival elder’s plan to embarrass you in front of her peers cost 
you the seat on a primogen council, or another Kindred wounded you 
and left you for dead. Maybe a pack of anarchs slew your sire or childe, 
or your packmates betrayed you rather than risk capture when a Sabbat 
raid went awry. You should have no difficulty creating an appropri- 
ately gruesome or horrific deed that left a memory gnawing at your gut 
every night of your unlife. Forever is a long time to nurse a grudge, and 
the desire for vengeance can be so strong that it will not do simply to 
murder the object of your hatred once you find him. It is often far more 
satisfying to plan an elaborate act of revenge in which your target is 
fully aware of his humiliation and its source. 
Romance - 
While it is true that many elders’ emotions have 
waned over the long night, it is still possible for an elder to feel the 
dizzying intoxication of passion for another Kindred, or even for a 
favored ghoul or mortal. The sudden blossoming of such love could be 
a complete surprise to your elder, and he may struggle against it, trying 
to deny the upheaval of his plans and his carefully ordered existence. 
Depending on your selected Nature and Demeanor, the pursuit of a 
romantic goal can manifest itself in any number of ways. Perhaps you 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


become infatuated with a mortal from among your many Influences 
who reminds you of a past lover. It may be that you and another 
character in the chronicle once shared a passion which has cooled over 
the centuries, and which you now wish to rekindle. Unrequited love 
can be among the most powerful of romantic motivations - 
attempt- 
ing to prove your worth to a lover who spurns or ignores you is an 
intriguing alternative to the usual romantic entanglements. What if 
the lover in question is a younger Kindred or mortal trying desperately 
to win your favor? Because of the power differences between elders and 
other characters, and because of the very nature of live-action roleplay, 
be certain to establish the bounds of the romantic plotline with the 
player(s) who are participating in it with you. 
Insanity - The crushing weight of the years, the growing 
isolation from the mortal world, the unending attacks on your power, 
the slow retreat from your own humanity- these elements of life as an 
elder can drive you into the arms of insanity as surely as the most violent 
or sudden trauma. Maybe your character acquired several Beast Traits or 
Derangements which cause her to act in an increasingly unpredictable 
and dangerous manner. Perhaps she simply can’t cope with immortality 
any longer and harbors a secret wish for her own destruction. 
Note: Insanity does not give you license to act without thinking. 
While your actions may appear to observers to be completely random, 
irrational or inexplicable, make certain that your madness has method in 
it. Otherwise it becomes aparodyof itself, adisjointedseries ofnonsensical 
ravings or wildly inappropriate scenes that diminish the game’s enjoyment 
for everyone. An insane person- particularly an insane elder- operates 
according to an established internal logic. While your motivations will 
not be understood by those around you, they should be consistent with the 
altered point of view brought on by your madness. 
Effective Roleplaying 
The fire which seem out often sleeps beneath the cinders. 
- 
Pierre Coneille 
Your role as an elder has many facets. Your character embodies the 
ancient authority older Kindred wield over the younger, and therefore 
will be asked (or pressured) to participate in the ongoing interactions 
between the various strata of vampire society. It is important to 
understand how your character will likely relate to the various factions 
which also inhabit the night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I 
Puttin’ On the Ritz 
Silk or leather? Etruscan or Mod? Having seen (and occasion- 
ally played) the fashion game, most elders are jaded to the notion 
of clothes and fashion. As long as it covers the body, many couldn’t 
care less what they’re actually wearing. In the case of some (such as 
the Lasombra), the matter of appearance is immensely important, 
always uppermost in many 
the part. Everyone wants 
players) are no different. 
ittle help. When the Brujah 
a regular basis, or the 
to look his best, an 
step out in style. Others 
ot be an exercise in 
be the belles of th 
When was she Em- 
time periods did she 
If she was in torpor for 
owever, some of her 
m star during the  OS, 
r slinky evening gowns are 
r elder, then she may 
most of the 18th ce 
Watteau gowns for 
then perhaps droppe 
all the terms; just look at the styles and see what appeals to you. You 
might have consideredVictorian for your elder, but you’re not ready 
to start corseting. On the other hand, the soft lines of the gowns of 
the 1930s, complete with gloves and a little hat, are appealing and 
more comfortable-looking. Your Ventrue elder was active in Lon- 
don, then, a society maven - 
and like that, you have a potential 
idea for something much different from the usual ruck and run of 
Victorian and 18th centurv fashions. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I Obviously, the Masquerade should be a consideration. Let’s I 
say your Brujah elder was Embraced during the era of Socrates and 
Plato, and finds Greekrobes to be the most comfortable thing he’s 
ever wom in the past 2000-plus years. A man wandering down 
the streets at night wearing a chiton and sandals is bound to 
attract attention, some of which will certainly be undesirable. 
And how many times wouldyozt want to be asked if you’re in a 
play? You might want t 
for wearing around the 
elder’s person, consider so 
all, like a ring with a 
Grecian key design or a tie 
orations from an urn. 
They say that clothes 
, and certainly clothes 
carry connotations abou 
er, however uninten- 
find himself viewed a 
dering one at that, 
expect elders to look 
unlikely to gamer re 
on dressing like an I 
who tries too hard 
be above that sort 
dvise them on the 
e first stop of anyone 
, cared for well, will 
Even small acces- 
cases and the like 
Vintage clothing sto 
searching for an elder’ 
last you through man 
sories, like gloves, ha 
- 
can bring an outfit (and character) to life. For snappy modem 
dressing, check out resale shops in vour area, particularly those 
that advertise “gently used” garments. Many times, these places 
carry outfits barely out of season, and certainly not out of style. 
If you have friends who sew and construct costumes, consider 
offering yourself as a guinea pig. Couture offers them the chance to 
experiment with fabrics and styles, and when it’s done, you have an 
outfit that’s completely different from anything else that will show 
up at Elysium. It can also provide some great plot threads about 
where vour character pets her clothes done. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Maintaining the Status Quo 
Elders have a vested interest in maintaining the status quo, 
whatever the circumstances of their individual situations may be. It 
would be absurd to think that you would allow your hard-won status, 
power and authority to be snatched from your hands by overeager, 
undeserving upstarts of weaker generations. No prince casually 
surrenders the throne to an ambitious ancilla; no elder willingly 
turns over her primogen seat to an impetuous fledgling. This is the 
paradox of Kindred existence - the constant ambition of the 
neonates and ancillae to achieve the same rewards as the elders, 
juxtaposed with the elders’ desperate measures to thwart these 
attempts at any cost. 
You will probably find it beneficial to your elder existence to resist 
sudden or drastic change in the status quo, unless such nontraditional 
behavior clearly benefits your position. Greet sweeping proposals for 
social reform as but one step removed from anarchy. React to suggested 
business improvements with barely concealed disinterest, promising 
to review the plans as soon as your busy schedule permits. Stamp out 
the anarch threat wherever and whenever it may be found, for the 
dissatisfied grumblings of youth soon turn to the scorching flame of 
rebellion. Above all, instill in the younger, less experienced Kindred 
a mortal fear of the enemy, whether it be Camarilla or Sabbat. Point 
out that this hated foe’s victory would be all but assured if the elders 
were to fail in their unceasing vigilance, and that the city would have 
fallen for certain were it not for your own tireless efforts against the 
adversary. 
Dealing with Kindred Society 
Some players view elder characters simply as a means of crushing 
all who cross their paths during a game. They leave a trail of mangled 
characters behind them, and turn even more viciously on any charac- 
ter who dares admonish them. Such a player should expect to be 
shunned by the rest, or even expelled from the chronicle, and deserv- 
edly so. While violence is part and parcel of the World of Darkness, 
habitually behaving in this manner simply to gain attention or to 
disrupt the game shows a lack of the maturity necssary for playing a 
powerful character. Elevating the story above the pitfalls of mindless 
violence is the equal responsibility of every player, but particularly 
those who portray elders, since they have the capacity to inflict the 
most damage with the least amount of effort. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


As an elder, you should be willing to help guide the game in the 
direction that is most entertaining for everyone, not just yourself. Your 
Storyteller trusts you with the potential to help make or break the 
game, and in a way trusts you with a measure of responsibility for the 
game. This is not to say that you must perpetually sacrifice your own 
enjoyment, but rather that you should be equally aware of your fellow 
players’ needs alongside your own. 
How, then, should you deal with those Kindred who lack your age 
and capabilities? What do you say to the neonate who insults you at the 
prince’s court, or do to the ancilla who ruins plans that took years to 
lay? Wise elders master their immediate impulse to destroy the 
offender, and instead embark upon a time-honored campaign for the 
loyalties, hearts and minds of their detractors and supporters alike. 
Most chronicles will feature some degree of stratification be- 
tween character power levels. A few characters will probably be 
elders, and thus relatively more powerful in terms of resources and 
capabilities. The majority of characters will probably be ancillae and 
neonates, the rank and file of the Kindred world. In this type of game, 
successful elder characters work to improve their individual power 
bases, without calling undue attention to themselves. You did not 
survive to become an elder, after all, by stepping boldly to the front 
every time danger threatened and volunteers were requested. You, as 
an elder, should not want to pursue every plot thread or story line that 
comes your way. Instead, encourage your more “youthful” allies, 
associates and subordinates to investigate the strange occurrences, 
unusual circumstances and mysterious happenings while you remain 
“behind the lines” to direct the action. 
Interacting with Neonates 
Some elders make the mistake of viewing neonates as little more 
than flunkies, beasts of burden, slaves or scapegoats. These elders, 
secure in the belief that their elevated status will protect them from 
reprisal from the weaker strata of vampire society, don’t feel they need 
to bother with neonates. Nothing could be further from the truth. A 
single neonate equipped with knowledge and training is worth twice 
the value of the most loyal ghoul retainer or mortal servant. Several 
neonates who decide to combine forces are sometimes quite capable of 
taking down a single elder. 
Neonates who reject the status quo are exceedingly dangerous 
- 
call attention to the threat they represent at every opportunity. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Rebellious Camarilla neonates sometimes flee the sect and form 
anarch packs, dedicated to insurrection and destruction of the 
elders’ precious status quo. Worse, they may be recruited by the 
Sabbat and turned into weapons pointed directly at the Camarilla’s 
heart. Sabbat neonates who break free of their elders’ control are 
no longer useful tools to be used against the hated Camarilla. At 
best they wander without direction; at worst they might join the 
enemy. For these reasons it is vital that you, as a prudent elder, treat 
neonates not as chattel but as a valuable resource. Unless you want 
them to start preaching against the established order- and against 
you as its defender - 
consider them as the building blocks of your 
own power base. 
Befriending neonates is an excellent in-game method of simul- 
taneously fostering character interaction and supporting elder 
involvement in the story. You will find it more than worth your 
investment in time and energy to recruit a network of less powerful 
characters who will do your bidding (voluntarily or otherwise), 
leaving you free to pursue more genteel diversions. If you are even 
marginally successful in recruiting associates and helpers across 
clan lines, so much the better, for your power base will be that much 
more enhanced. 
Once established, your neonate support system is not necessar- 
ily secure. You will almost certainly find yourself competing with 
other elders, and sometimes ancillae, for control of this precious 
resource. Rival Kindred are quite capable of utilizing methods 
similar to those you initially employed to gain the neonates’ 
assistance. Do you regularly use shouted threats and beatings to 
instill fear and respect in your neonate followers? You can be 
certain that the other elders of the city know about it, and are 
whispering into the neonate’s ear when you’re out of earshot. 
Watch for elder manipulators who attempt to sow dissent within 
the ranks of your helpers and associates. If you fail to guard your 
young followers jealously against poachers, defections will become 
commonplace. Consider the system of rewards and punishments 
you use to retain neonate loyalty. Too much or too little of either 
one erodes your power base as surely as a rival’s blandishments. 
Neonates perform a plethora of vital functions for their elders. 
They make effective bodyguards when you travel, or guard your 
haven while you attend to business. Neonates can also be your eyes 
and ears when you need to be in two places at once. A primogen 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


meeting may command the bulk of your attention on a given night, 
but your young spies can keep tabs on the Gangrel who started 
sniffing around your newly constructed chemical plant, reporting to 
you later on her movements and conversations. 
Perhaps most importantly, neonates are capable of understand- 
ing the modern world more readily than you are. Face it, you are the 
product of a bygone era, and in spite of your age and power, you may 
need assistance in dealing with modern technology and customs. 
Computer systems, for example, are sufficiently difficult for con- 
temporary mortals to understand and utilize effectively. To a 
vampire whose last intimate contact with technology was with the 
telegraph, flintlock rifle or aqueduct, such machines may prove 
incomprehensible. Neonates whose mortal lives were contempo- 
rary with these devices can be invaluable for helping you harness 
this technology for your own benefit. Those with computer exper- 
tise can help you decimate a rival’s economic empire, search for 
information or spread rumors and innuendo throughout an entirely 
new medium. 
Interacting with Ancillae 
This “middle class” within vampire society is at once indispens- 
ably useful and exceedingly dangerous. If the ancillae could be 
bothered to set aside their own selfish pursuits and internecine 
squabbling, they would be a force to be reckoned with, one which 
could conceivably challenge the elders’ iron grip on the night. 
Many elders live in fear of this potential usurpation, and maintain 
constant vigilance against it. Dealing with ancillae can prove 
costly if you misjudge or anger them. At the same time, you cannot 
afford to show unnecessary weakness or incompetence, lest you 
inspire the ancillae to unseat you. 
If the neonates are the foundation of your power base, then the 
ancillae are the mortar which holds the stones together. A capable 
ancilla can perform many useful functions, such as acting as a 
mediator between you and the neonates you wish to recruit to your 
side, or as a troubleshooter to alert you when your plans are going 
astray. Ancillae also make excellent advisors and lieutenants, ad- 
ministering your holdings or businesses on your behalf and informing 
you of important developments within your fields of interests. 
You must beware your subordinates’ ambitions, however. Make 
no mistake - 
the ancilla to whom you entrust your most secret 
. 
~ 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
II 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


need to determine the correct balance between reward and punish- 
ment to keep the ancillae in line and on your side. If you reward 
them with too much too often, they will come to expect your 
gratitude even when they haven’t earned it. If you reward them 
with too little or too seldom, they will grow resentful at your 
ingratitude and be easy targets for rivals. 
Establishing Alliances 
How, then, can the neonates and ancillae be drawn as moths to 
your flame? 
Goodwill - 
Few tactics surpass good manners in impressing 
your associates. Simply behaving courteously toward the younger 
generations can often establish you as an elder who values them 
and their contributions. If your Nature and Demeanor permit, try 
praising the young Ventrue who greets you in a respectful manner, 
or complimenting the Toreador ingenue on her new frock. Such 
small gestures cost you very little, and can reap an impressive return 
in your future dealings with the young ones. Neonates and ancillae 
whom you take care to compliment may find your later overtures of 
alliance more believable and palatable. If you are fortunate, your 
evident goodwill may even induce a younger Kindred to reject a 
request made by one of your rivals to do you harm. It’s sometimes 
equally useful to point out the discourtesy shown by other, less 
sensitive elders to the younger Kindred. If a situation should occur 
wherein both you or the unmannered elder both desire the neonate’s 
services, whom do you think the young vampire will be more likely 
to consider? Occasional small gifts of information, advice, con- 
structive criticism and perhaps even Status can also do wonders to 
set you apart from the elders who believe that the best way to treat 
neonates and ancillae is with the tip of their boot. 
Blackmail - 
Where goodwill sometimes fails, blackmail may 
sometimes succeed. Perhaps a headstrong childe rebuffed your friendly 
overtures? No matter - 
all Kindred hide secrets, and few wish their 
weak spots revealed. Perhaps the Gangrel’s sire didn’t abandon her 
after all, but rather fell victim to his progeny’s appetites? Perhaps the 
Ventrue whip would not care to have his rather obscure feeding 
habits bandied about the prince’s court for the amusement of others? 
Threats ofexposure are best when made subtly, but you must bait this 
hook well - 
if your price for silence is too high, you may well become 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
. - .  
112 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


you ask is within your target’s ability to give. You cannot obtain a 
vast fortune from an impoverished childe, after all. 
Threats - 
Elders who are skilled in making threats find that 
implied consequences are better than those stated explicitly. Bla- 
tant warnings of imminent harm seldom do more than earn your 
target’s temporary cooperation, followed by her long-term enmity. 
Most threats are more effective in the short term, and often the 
same threat does not work twice. There are some excellent ex- 
amples of long-term threats, however, such as blackmail (see 
above) or warnings of serious injury to those beloved by your target. 
Neonates may respond more readily than ancillae to threats of 
physical violence, although sometimes just the hint of inconve- 
nience can be sufficient to forge a brief alliance. Beware whom you 
threaten, however, as you will not be the only elder practicing such 
techniques. Threatening ancillae or neonates whom you know to 
be strongly supported by other elders is an invitation to disaster. 
Choose both your threat and threatened with care. 
Blood Bond - 
Be wary of using the Blood Bond indiscrimi- 
nately, particularly on those Kindred who are not your own progeny. 
If you try to create an army of Blood Bound servitors, other elders in 
the vicinity will almost certainly try to prevent it, before it upsets the 
balance of power. They may even decide to unite against you, which 
could prove disastrous. If you choose to employ the Bond as a means 
of influencing a younger Kindred, consider keeping the attachment a 
secret. Your enemies may trust your Thrall more readily if they are 
unaware that you are her Regnant. 
Lies - 
No one ever said that you must always tell the truth 
when dealing with younger Kindred (indeed, some neonates and 
ancillae would claim that the reverse is usually true). The kind of 
response you can provoke with a judicious lie can be both surprising 
and gratifying. Perhaps a certain Brujah is burning for revenge on the 
unknown assassin who murdered his sire. Should you hint that you 
know, or can somehow determine, the killer’s identity, you may earn 
the childe’s services. Is your packmate willing to do anything to 
please the pack leader? Consider letting it “slip” that you know the 
way to win her approval, and will gladly reveal it in exchange for a 
small favor. If your falsehood is exposed, discovered by your target or 
revealed by a rival, it’s best to conceal it with more lies in order to 
avoid the consequences of revealing the truth. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Interacting with Elders 
Some of the most dynamic moments in any chronicle arise from 
the interactions between elders. These vampiric peers circle one 
another like wary gladiators, seeking their opponent’s weak spots 
while striving not to reveal any of their own. Elders do assist one 
another, but such aid almost always carries a price which must be paid 
in full before or immediately after services are rendered. Thus the 
games of one-upmanship are played out against the backdrop of elder 
interaction, with each player jockeying to place herself in a position 
to bestow favors and demand the appropriate gratitude in return. 
It’s a good idea to be respectful of other elders, at least in public. 
While it’s sometimes difficult to conceal your contempt for a sneering 
rival or a member of an opposed clan, hurling insults rarely accom- 
plishes anything beyond antagonizing the target of your scorn. Likewise, 
attacking other elders is almost always a bad idea. Would you really 
want to go toe-to-toe with someone as old and powerful as yourself? 
Unless you are purposefully trying to goad your fellow elder into a 
response, it is usually wisest to keep a civil tongue in your head. 
Other elders can be your closest allies or your most dreaded 
enemies. They often want the same things you want, and are as well- 
versed as you in the art of obtaining what they wish. They are in 
competition with you for the scarce resources of the World of Dark- 
ness, such as the services of neonates and ancillae. They will strive to 
acquire the same advantages you desire, not least among them mortal 
vessels and Influence, and it is from this competition that many of the 
fiercest and most long-standing elder feuds are created. Tread lightly 
among your fellow ancients. 
Avoiding Unnecessary 
Violence 
Consider a typical night at the prince’s court. You prepare hours in 
advance, dressing in your most expensive finery, choosing just the right 
tie to win approving glances from the Harpies, and taking the time to 
make certain your appearance is as perfect as money can buy. You are 
confident that your plan to cement an alliance with the Toreador elder 
will reach fruition this evening. You arrive in your new luxury car, your 
driver smart and efficient, and make your grand entrance through the 
wide mahogany doors into the vast reception hall.. .only to collide with 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


another Kindred carrying a pair of goblets overflowing with vitae, which 
now forms indelible stains on your clothing for all to see. Because you are 
an elder no one laughs openly, but you can hear the undercurrent of 
amusement pass through the gathering like an electric shock. Taking 
your eyes from your ruined clothing, you gaze upon the face of your 
destroyer, anewly Embraced neonate of the Brujah clan. Rage takes root 
in your heart and pulsates quickly to the roof of your mouth, flame-hot 
as the Beast screams in your mind that you must be allowed the sight of 
this childe’s blood on your hands. The neonate stares in mute horror at 
your clothes, then at the expression of white-hot anger on your face. 
Your eyes flick momentarily to the gathered crowd, and you see the 
Toreador elder smiling wryly as she shakes her head at your misfortune, 
then turns to whisper into the ear of one of the Harpies.. . . 
What Do You Do Now? 
A - 
Kill the offending Brujah neonate without mercy or hesita- 
tion! You are an elder, after all, and are entitled to respect from whelps 
like him. The insult is unforgivable, and may well have been planned, 
a calculated “accident” to embarrass you and forestall your alliance 
with the Toreador. A swift death for this childe will serve as an object 
lesson for any other Kindred who seeks to make you play the fool! 
B - 
Reprimand the unwise childe with a scathing, public tongue- 
lashing, then spend the next three months plotting his grisly death. 
Your vengeance will be delicious, no less than the complete dismem- 
berment of this upstart pup, who will only at the moment of his Final 
Death suddenly recognize you as the engineer of his demise. You can 
savor his death screams already! 
C - 
Begin a campaign to glean as many reparations as possible 
from the Brujah clan in payment for this unfortunate accident. You 
will play the proud but injured party and demand that the Brujah 
primogen punish the neonate for this transgression, but will recom- 
mend leniency - 
after all, you want the childe alive so that his fear 
of your eventual reprisal will haunt him each morning when he sleeps. 
You could kill him any time, but making his life miserable with anxiety 
is far more satisfying. What’s more, you’ll use this encounter as proof 
for the Toreador elder that the Brujah are too uncivilized to stand in 
the way of your alliance. 
If you answered: 
A - 
Please report to the nearest medical facility for your lo- 
botomy. It’s better this way, honest. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


undoing. 
C - 
Congratulations! You are among the superior elders! You 
have realized that violence should be applied in the game like a 
surgical instrument - 
with precision and skillful direction, and 
certainly not as a first resort. 
This example is not meant to suggest that it is never appropriate 
for an elder to use violence against a neonate or an ancilla. There may 
be circumstances in which such an outcome is unavoidable, and may 
even support the story. Death should always remain a very real threat 
in the game, otherwise there is little to prevent characters from 
running completely amuck. In many cases, however, you may find it 
more effective to conserve your energy, saving your strength in 
preparation for combating more deadly foes, such as other elders. 
Rash acts of murder often lead to unpleasant consequences. If your 
victim was prominent among her clan, for example, her death may 
lead to interclan war. Such outcomes are undesirable, for they often 
derail an entire chronicle and require drastic manhandling from the 
Storyteller to put the story back on track. Engaging in combat too 
frequently also attracts unwanted attention from the prince, his sheriff 
and sometimes the archons, a fate most wise elders avoid. Elders who 
cannot control their violent impulses may be judged a danger to the 
Traditions, giving a prince the necessary excuse to call a Blood Hunt 
or request assistance from a Justicar. Frequent, overt violence can also 
lead to inadvertent breaches of the Masquerade, which no Kindred 
can afford to take lightly. Habitually violent Kindred often find 
themselves ostracized from Kindred society, and may find it difficult to 
retain their status and influence. If you are the type of player who 
engages in numerous Physical Challenges for the sheer enjoyment of 
beating up on other characters, it might be best if you found another 
pastime before any of these unfortunate occurrences befall your 
character. 
It is worth bearing in mind that the elders are more acutely aware 
of the dangers of violating the First Tradition than some of their young 
cousins. Some elders remember the nights of terror dominated by the 
Inquisition, when the mortal world turned against them and dragged 
so many of them screaming into the sunlight or burned them beside 
heretics and elderly widows in the witch-fires. These memories, and 
the dread of such circumstances once again coming to pass, give many 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


elders a healthy aversion to rash brutality. Too much impulsive 
violence escalates into pitched battles which in turn threaten or even 
violate the Masquerade, and for this reason many elders use violent 
means only as a last resort. 
There are effective, nonlethal solutions to almost any situation 
which might arise over the course of a chronicle, and most of these 
reprisals fully support the volatile, dangerous nature of the World of 
Darkness. Acts of vengeance which allow your victim to survive are 
often preferable to the more final variety for one simple reason- the 
object of your revenge remains alive for future retribution and abuse. 
Why destroy the Toreador who seduced your favorite ghoul when 
you could inflict a humbling, nonlethal lesson on her, leaving her 
around for more reprisals in the nights to come? Choosing to end all 
conflicts by killing one’s enemies is shortsighted, and a hallmark of 
the problem player. 
Should you find yourself wronged, offended or slighted in some 
material way by another Kindred, you may wish to consider approach- 
ing the offender’s sire or primogen and discussing the manner in which 
he could make reparations for your inconvenience. In some Camarilla- 
controlled cities, the primogen are at least somewhat accountable for 
the actions of their respective clans, and are frequently responsible for 
keeping their more “enthusiastic” brethren in line. 
Be open to Prestation, and you may find yourself the recipient of 
a valuable boon in exchange for your willingness to overlook an 
unfortunate incident. This type of reparation is most common when 
the offense and apology are committed and made in public. Rather 
than destroying a rude neonate for insulting you before the primogen, 
consider instead the value of forgiving the offense in favor of exacting 
a promise of future aid from the whelp’s embarrassed sire. Publicly 
forgive the rash act and accept the boon in private; you will appear 
magnanimous and genteel, rather than a vain and pompous bully. 
Don’t be greedy - 
accept a Boon commensurate with the offense. It 
will make you look foolish to demand a Life Boon for overlooking a 
relatively minor transgression. If an expected offer of Prestation is not 
forthcoming, don’t make an issue of it, but later in the evening you may 
want to make “casual” mention to the Harpy about the shocking lack 
of manners exhibited both by the neonate and her sire. 
Sometimes a Kindred who has wronged you will be eager to 
make up for her actions in order to avert your wrath, but will be 
anxious to avoid any public acknowledgment. You are an elder, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


after all, and your displeasure cannot be taken lightly. By simply 
acting annoyed and perhaps angered with the transgressor, you may 
elicit the offer of something valuable to soothe your ruffled feathers 
- 
the loan of useful Influence, for example, or perhaps an offer to 
teach you a new Discipline. Some elders are not above accepting 
cash, information or other valuable commodities in return for not 
pressing a delicate matter. 
How to Get the Most Out of Your Elder 
I do not despair in the least of ultimate triumph. I repeat it with intense 
- 
Emile Zola 
You will soon discover that the game itself seldom makes it 
necessary to resort to something as blatant as outright violence to 
secure your desires. The Masquerade contains a number of subtle 
methods for gaining the upper hand through roleplaying, which is 
almost always the most satisfying means. Two of the most effective 
game components in facilitating the triumph of subtlety over 
violence are Influence and Prestation. 
conviction. 
Influence: Mortal Allies 
The elder who masters an Influence in her city or region gains 
an impressive resource on which to draw in her efforts to secure 
her station and thwart those who would usurp it. Elders may rule 
the night and hold sway over the activities of the Kindred, but the 
mortal world hums on unceasingly around them. While elders 
sleep, their mortal retainers and allies are alert and mobile, 
guarding their master’s interests and carrying out her wishes. 
Mastery of an Influence can offer you a considerable advantage 
in your nightly business. 
Your elder character may, at your Storyteller’s discretion, begin 
the game with a number of Influence Traits in excess of the normal 
three most characters obtain at the time of their creation. If so, you 
must decide whether to concentrate on dominating just one or two 
areas of Influence, or to spread your Traits as widely as possible in 
order to obtain access to many different facets of mortal society. If 
your Ventrue elder begins the game with five Influence Traits, for 
example, you might decide to invest all five in the Finance Influence, 
in addition to the one free Finance Influence Trait all Ventrue gain 
at character creation, giving you six Traits of Finance Influence and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


undisputed dominance of the economic life of your city. You could 
easily be alerted to almost all Kindred financial ventures, and may be 
able to block them as well. Certainly it puts you in a position to 
extract favors when Kindred who lack your financial acumen wish to 
venture into “your” realm. 
You might, however, decide to assign three Influences Traits to 
the Finance Influence, two to Bureaucracy and one to Industry. You 
would then have a more diverse power base, making it less likely that 
any crippling blow to any single Influence under your sway would 
damage you permanently. Moreover, you gain information from a 
wider array of sources, and if you find it necessary to trade Influences 
with other Kindred, possessing a variety of Traits often makes such 
deals easier to complete. Ultimately, your own sense of your character’s 
Nature and your interpretation of her motivations will determine 
how you choose to spread your Influences. 
Influence Traits can be used to great effect within the scope of 
an ongoing chronicle. They are one of the most potent weapons in 
any vampire’s arsenal, often far more sure and lethal than the claw 
or gun. If your Storyteller does not already have you reporting your 
monthly Influence activity, start indicating exactly what your Influ- 
ences are working on between games. It is possible to inconvenience 
or even crush an enemy thoroughly through prolonged, concen- 
trated use of Influences, and the end result can be far more satisfying 
than a crude bloodletting. The shrewd use and trading of Influences 
can gain you an enormous amount of prestige for your subtlety. 
Control of the Police Influence, for example, can enable you 
to wreak havoc on your enemies. You can order their havens 
disturbed during daylight hours, or have their own Influences 
arrested and detained for questioning. The police can cordon off 
buildings and streets while you tend to your business undisturbed, 
and they can allow you to ensure that certain pieces of incrimi- 
nating evidence collected from crime scenes simply vanish into 
the night air. Equally useful is the Industry Influence. Is your rival 
a shipping magnate who prides himself on his access to container 
ships? A prolonged strike among the longshoremen, dock laborers 
or even tugboat pilots can cripple his business and deprive him of 
income. Likewise, an artificial shortage of vital resources like ore 
or chemicals can make life miserable for those Kindred with 
manufacturing interests. Criminal harassment instigated through 
the Underworld Influence can make it nearly impossible for other 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Kindred to do business, while the ability to seize control of City 
Hall via Politics can bring other vampires crawling to you when 
they need help in passing a city ordinance or dealing with 
bureaucratic red tape. 
In addition to inflicting harm, your Influence Traits can be used 
to gather vital information which enables you to remain one step 
ahead of the rest of the pack. They may be utilized to lend support to 
your allies in time of need (in return for later favors, of course). Such 
categories as Street, Health and University can prove invaluable in 
finding out exactly what is happening in your local area, or in 
obtaining such valuable resources as vitae and cash when supplies are 
low. Wise selection of Influences can offer you a safe emergency 
haven when your plans go wrong, and easy access to vessels when 
other methods of hunting are not viable. 
Prestation 
The millennia-honored game of Prestation is one of your 
most potent means of safeguarding the ultimate success of your 
plans. It is no overstatement to say that learning to understand 
and appreciate Prestation fully may mean the difference between 
gaining authority among the Kindred and falling under the heel 
of your rivals. 
The most basic lesson in Prestation is “Nobody gets nothing for 
free.” Did you supply the sheriff with a tip on where she could 
apprehend the anarchs who have been smuggling guns into the 
city? Did you permit the prince’s favorite childe safe passage 
through your network of sewers? Did you endanger your own safety 
by stepping in to protect the Toreador primogen from the Assamite’s 
near-fatal blow? In all cases, you are within your rights to politely 
remind the other party that it is customary to return such favors in 
kind, and since you have no immediate need of a similar service, 
you would be pleased to accept a Boon as a token of appreciation. 
Remembering that every favor, however small, is probably worth 
something to somebody can help you build an impressive library of 
Boons. Even a collection of minor Boons bestowed upon you by 
Kindred of lesser station or age can be valuable, especially when 
you consider that they can be traded (exactly like Influences) to 
other Kindred in return for other favors and aid. 
Prestation is a game of subtlety, however. Strive to avoid 
giving those in your debt the opportunity to repay you. A Boon 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
.
.
 
120 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Boon, though - 
some Kindred may attempt to force the issue by 
arranging circumstances so that you will have little choice but to 
allow them to repay the debt. Others may even go so far as to 
attempt to remove the inconvenience the Boon represents by 
trying to place you in their debt, or even trying to eliminate the 
Boon by eliminating the one who holds it. Be certain to alert the 
Harpies, prince or other authority figures if a vampire in your debt 
reneges on or ignores a Boon rightfully owed to you. This kind of 
pressure can be nearly as effective in embarrassing or controlling 
your rivals as possession of the Boon itself. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Working with elder characters is a challenge. Plots and subplots 
can spin off in unexpected directions. One moment the plot is moving 
along and your players are enjoying themselves. In the next moment, 
the game’s setting is in flames, the Masquerade is completely blown, 
and the natives are restless. The game is out of control, and it’s up to 
you to get it back on track. 
This chapter contains essential information for Storytellers who 
wish to run chronicles and independent stories involving elders. The 
techniques and pitfalls of the all-elder chronicle are discussed in 
depth. This chapter will also help you troubleshoot elder-created and 
elder-associated problems, and offers advice on repairing a derailed 
plot. Following this are ideas and methods for integrating elders into 
your regular chronicle. Finally, there is information on how to guide 
your players as their characters advance toward elder status, and the 
important issues which inevitably arise during this process. 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 1 2 3  
J 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The All-Elder Chronicle 
Storytellers who enjoy challenges may want to create and run a 
chronicle wherein all the characters are elders. The familiar elements 
of scale, scope, characters, plot and theme all take on significantly 
different dimensions when their focus is entirely on elders, and require 
some greater consideration. Depending on the type of story you’re 
preparing, and the nature of your group, planning some escape routes 
in case things go wrong may well be the most important step in 
preparing to tell this kind of story. 
The Elements of a Successful Elder 
Chronicle 
Scale 
The all-elder chronicle generally functions more smoothly with 
relatively few players. It is not unknown for games to consist of more 
than 50 players, or even several hundred when staged at conventions 
and the like. If you find that you’ll have more than a dozen or so elder 
players, you may wish to reconsider - 
the more elders you include, the 
greater the potential for the game to get out of control on a regular basis. 
Fifty elders gathered in one place is an invitation to disaster, particularly 
when those elders have no one to lord it over but each other. 
Limit your elder chronicle to a size that you feel you can comfort- 
ably handle. Attempting to narrate the titanic battle in a metropolis 
populated by a hundred Kindred with allegiances to different sects is 
a story best done with a large team of Storytellers and Narrators. If you 
decide to run a large elder chronicle, be certain you have enough 
Narrators and assistants to keep everything moving along. Elder 
interaction is complex at best, but the wheeling and dealing becomes 
almost Byzantine with a group of a dozen or more. So much political 
machination produces a significant amount of extra paperwork and 
record-keeping as you track all the shifts in ownership of Boons, Status 
Traits, Influences and alliances throughout the course of the game. 
Should disagreements between many elders lead to open violence, you 
and your Narrators will be very busy resolving all the challenges such 
conflict entails. You’ll be grateful for the dozen or so Narrators 
following the latest challenges when you’re in the middle of yet 
another Brujah-Ventrue rumble that’s reducing the room to rubble. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Scope 
Scope defines your chronicle’s impact on the lives of your characters 
and the world in which they exist. You may choose to give your story a 
vast, sweeping scope, perhaps dealing with the fate of the world itself. 
Vampires who control governors, senators, ambassadors or even heads 
of state may influence the course of world events, bringing nations into 
armed conflict or completely restructuring the world economy to 
benefit their grand design. You might decide to focus your scope more 
narrowly, dealing with matters which interest only the individual 
characters. Sucha chronicle might be the story of a small coterie ofelders 
and their search for one of their number who’s suddenly disappeared. 
The chronicle’s scope should be neither too trivial to merit the 
elders’ attention, nor so overwhelming that they feel helpless and 
decide not even to bother trying. You may wish to vary the apparent 
scope throughout the progress of the story - 
the scope of events can 
be increased or decreased. For example, let’s start with a story that 
involves an outside threat annexing the characters’ mortal Influences. 
The elders eventually discover and confront the nemesis raiding their 
resources. After the threat is dealt with, the scope of the game can be 
refocused on the individual elders and their efforts to rebuild their 
damaged power bases. Some elders will almost certainly attempt to 
steal the Influences of their fellows rather than start over from scratch. 
The other elders may either fight the thief or decide to follow his 
example, igniting a citywide conflict which pits elder against elder, 
expanding the chronicle’s scope once again. When elders from a 
neighboring city view this escalating warfare and decide it’s the perfect 
time to annex the characters’ city into their own domain, the scope 
increases again. 
Be careful that the scope of your story doesn’t expand until it 
reaches a point where it utterly dwarfs the characters, and players may 
prefer to throw up their hands in frustration rather than continue. 
Monitor the players’ reactions to the chronicle, and use this informa- 
tion to help guide you in adjusting the scope to its best dramatic 
advantage. It’s no fun when things are so huge that you feel you can’t 
possibly make a difference. 
When determining scope for this type of game, it is often useful to 
think of the elder chronicle as a single, brief segment in the ongoing 
story of these ancient creatures - 
a glimpse into one of the many 
possible tales which could be told of their long unlives. This doesn’t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


annot run a chronicle wherein the stakes are nothing 
less than the fate of the world - 
just don’t do it on a regular basis 
(“We’re saving the world again? But we did that last week.. . .”), and 
always do so with caution and with an eye toward balancing grandiose 
design with fundamental issues of character development. 
Characters 
It can be simpler to create premade characters complete with 
backgrounds, goals and motivations, and then to give these to your 
players before beginning your game. It is one way to make certain the 
characters’ motivations are interlocked in order to guarantee the 
conflicts, alliances and intrigues which are the meat and drink of such 
stories. Read through the suggested elder motivations in Chapter One 
again, and think about which might be best suited to which characters. 
You will be able to come up with dozens of variations on these themes, 
and the more effort you put into this aspect, the more enjoyment you 
and your players will get from the story. 
Are there Brujah and Ventrue elders in your chronicle? The 
natural rivalry of these clans can be greatly expanded when the 
characters are elders. Perhaps their current bitter enmity has its roots 
in a perpetually stalemated conflict that stretches across the centuries 
to medieval England, or perhaps it came about after Carthage’s 
destruction. The two characters begin the chronicle with some com- 
mon history and predetermined attitudes toward one another, which 
can jump-start a story. Is your story about the machinations of Sabbat 
leaders? Perhaps a Gangrel untinibu harbors a deep-seated grudge 
against the Lasombra bishop who has has blocked every opportunity 
for her advancement. Her fight with the bishop may be centuries old, 
but she can’t confront her enemy openly without fear of reprisal. She 
dreams of retribution, and would give a lot to rub her tormentor’s face 
in the dirt if the opportunity ever presented itself. The Lasombra 
bishop begins the game blissfully unaware of this long-bottled resent- 
ment and bitterness, but for how long? 
Once you have assigned characters, it is up to the players to 
determine how they manifest their characters’ motivations, goals and 
backgrounds. The background information you provide should be 
sufficiently clear and developed to assist them. Merely informing the 
Nosferatu elder that he despises all Ravnos is insufficient - 
detail the 
source of this hatred, and give the player something to work with as he 
considers how to interact with the Ravnos elder across the room. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The advantage of using ready-made characters is that it affords you 
a somewhat greater degree of control over the story. If you have a 
specific type of story in mind, pregenerated characters are the best 
method of steering events in the direction you wish. If your story 
hinges on awakening a torpid Methuselah under the city streets, you 
can increase the chances of players taking such action by providing 
one or more of them with characters whose goals include rousing this 
Methuselah from her eon-long sleep. 
The drawback of utilizing ready-made characters is that players 
prefer to retain more creative freedom, particularly for a long chronicle. 
Some players object to the stereotypical attitudes and Traits of their 
characters’ clans with premade characters, even if such motivations 
are critical to your planned course. Players can quickly become 
frustrated if forced to play characters they do not enjoy, and frustrated 
players can become destructive. For these reasons, confine premade 
characters to shorter chronicles. 
Allowing players to create their own characters does not mean that 
they should do so in a vacuum, nor that they have carte blanche during 
the creation process. Set your boundaries and stick to them. If you have 
decided that Followers of Set are inappropriate to the story you are 
telling (because they are the primary antagonists or some such), inform 
the group of this restriction before they start creating characters. Tell 
them what sort of story you’re planning for and what they need to think 
about, such as that your city is Camarilla-controlled, that independents 
need a very good reason for appearing in the city, etc. 
Each character should have a strong motive that is clear to both 
the player and you; it will be invaluable when creating subplots. If your 
players need help, suggest that they consider their elders in a vacuum 
-what 
would their characters wish to accomplish if they were the sole 
Kindred in the story, unopposed by rivals and free to do exactly as they 
pleased? Would they want to be left completely alone in quiet 
contemplation as they pursue Golconda, or would they want to secure 
control over every factory and manufacturing plant in the city? Now 
ask the players to thinkabout these motivations in relation to the same 
setting, but accounting for the presence of other Kindred in the city. 
Does the reality of sharing the night with other elders change these 
goals, or does it mean that the characters must discover new means of 
accomplishing their goals? This kind of exercise not only helps the 
players build strong character motivations, but helps set the stage for 
dynamic interactions when play begins. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


are each capable of leveling entire city blocks single-handedly, you 
have no one to blame but yourself if your chronicle concludes with 
the characters’ untimely deaths or the extinction of all life on the 
planet. Unless the plot of your chronicle involves Gehenna, you 
probably are not planning for this kind of outcome for your story. 
Encourage players to give their elders distinct personalities, 
interesting histories and several weaknesses. After all, for all the age 
and power these beings possess, they are hardly perfect. Give players 
enough information about the scope, setting and basic structure of 
the chronicle so that they can make appropriate choices in these 
matters. One who decides that her Nosferatu elder witnessed first- 
hand the formation of the Soviet Union, starting with the Russian 
Revolution, will be irked if she unexpectedly discovers during the 
first session that you have rewritten history and removed that 
particular event in the process. 
Perhaps the most important contribution you can make during 
character creation is to encourage players to think the way an elder 
thinks. The life span of an elder vampire is prolonged many, many 
times beyond a human’s, and yet our human perceptions, ideas and 
impressions are the tools we use when designing a character whose 
fundamental concept is very different from our own. The physical, 
mental and social capabilities that make elders distinct from neo- 
nates and ancillae manifest themselves through roleplay. Encourage 
the players to imagine how their characters watched or participated 
in the pageant of history, how that pageant has affected their 
outlook, and how they’ll reflect that in play. 
The scale, scope, theme and mood of an elder chronicle are all 
important to its success, but the plot is the heart and soul which allows 
your chronicle to move. The Storyteller is responsible for creating an 
engaging, progressive series of events which involve all the players, and 
strives to capture their imaginations. Composing a successful plot for an 
all-elder chronicle is no simple task. If you make the plot too obvious or 
simple, the players will solve things too quickly and become bored; if you 
create a story too difficult and nebulous, they may become frustrated at 
their slow progress. Balance is the key to a successful plot - 
your story 
must be sufficiently complex and interesting to offer the players a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


challenge, but should also be tailored to their individual characters in 
such a way that they each have opportunities to advance the plot. 
You should have the basic elements of your plot in mind so you can 
assist players during character creation. If you have established a chronicle 
which revolves around an elite Sabbat strike force cut off from help deep 
within the heart of Camarilla territory, it is doubtful that Camarilla-loyal 
Ventrue and Toreador elders would fare well in this story. 
Construct your plot on several levels, both macro and micro. The 
macro-level, or main plot, should revolve around events, ideas or 
situations which involve the entire group. This is the foundation of 
your story, and should be appropriately related to the theme, mood and 
scale you chose (see above). All the elders should have the opportunity 
to participate to some degree in this main plot, although the charac- 
ters’ own actions largely determine the level of involvement they 
have. It is perfectly acceptable to let the macro-level of plot be rather 
obvious - 
this doesn’t mean it should be trite or clichcd, but rather 
that it is fine to make the main element of the story obvious to the 
characters, since this is what will initially attract their attention. 
The micro-level of your story consists of subplots, most of which 
should be designed with individual characters in mind. These are the 
tales and events which are created for, and are sustained by, particular 
characters in your chronicle. A Nosferatu elder may wish to extend the 
boundaries of his sewer domain, or a Toreador elder may desire to 
humble a longtime rival. You should have no difficulty in constructing 
subplots for your elders, but be certain to involve your elders in some of 
the subplot planning. This will ensure that each participant is comfort- 
able in the subplot you and she create. You may wish to establish a 
romantic subplot for the elder Malkavian unticribu, but unless the person 
playing the Malkavian unticribu is comfortable with the idea, the result 
may be an inadequate subplot and an annoyed player. 
Use particular care when playing a chronicle with pregenerated 
elders. You must supply all the subplots for such characters, and you must 
make certain that the micro-level of the story meshes properly. Suppose 
you create a Tzimisce elder who has been pursuing his packmate’s 
assassin for over a century, and is by the start of the chronicle nearly 
consumed with the terrible thirst for vengeance. Imagine how disap- 
pointed the Tzimisce elder’s player will be if he plays through the 
duration of an extended chronicle without gaining even the opportu- 
nity to confront the assassin, simply because you did not include the 
killer among the player characters or Narrator characters. His entire 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Plot creation for the all-elder chronicle need not be the sole 
responsibility of the Storyteller. Players should be invited to share in the 
establishment of the micro-level of the story as well. The Storyteller 
must create the main plot as the framework for the tale, but the players 
should feel encouraged to add support and strength to the framework 
through the creation of some of their own subplots. Once again, this 
stage of preparation should be a joint venture between Storyteller and 
players. A player may choose to play a Ventrue elder in your chronicle, 
and will be eager to play out her own subplot concerning her character’s 
flight from her former comrades, a notorious Sabbat pack. This is 
without a doubt a juicy and interesting subplot, but the Storyteller must 
know about it in order to make effective use of the information! 
When making final preparations for your elder chronicle, consider 
how you will set in motion and maintain a plot with a controlled level 
of conflict. The story setting should change sufficiently over the course 
of the chronicle to remain interesting, and for the conflicts themselves 
to matter (see Scope, above), but should also be stable enough to be 
sustainable throughout many game sessions. Otherwise, you may find 
that the elders’ interaction with the plot creates problems your group 
will then look to you to solve (see Troubleshooting for Elders, below). 
Theme 
Storytellers whose chronicles feature an all-elder group may choose 
any theme for their story, but care should be taken to select themes with 
special relevance to elder characters. Revenge, for example, is an 
excellent theme to explore in an elder chronicle. What happens to 
beings who thirst for, or are the target of, more than their fair share of 
vengeance throughout their lives? Do they ever weary of seeking 
vengeance for insults, or do they develop some type of protective 
mental attitude against such trifles? Who really benefits from revenge? 
What happens to an elder who spends her unlife seeking revenge and 
finally obtains it? What forms might the revenge of an angered elder 
take? The Storyteller might also choose the theme of loyalty for her 
story. At what price can elders expect or demand loyalty? Can loyalty 
between elders ever truly last? Do expectations of loyalty inevitably 
result in betrayal? Why does loyalty seem to be among the most 
fleeting of the Kindred’s characteristics? What happens when we 
refuse to offer loyalty when it is expected or demanded? 
chronicle, and he may well feel dissatisfied by the result. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sample Elder Chronicle 
The characters cmpnse the primogen of a moderately sized city under the 
control of anewly installedpnnce. The fonnergrince andpnmogen were ousted 
by a conclave after archons discovered alarming cracks in the city’s Masquerade. 
Thenewpn‘mogenmustsc~ive 
todealwiththeprobkms left by theirpredecessors 
in addition to their personal issues and the night-to-night chauenges of running 
a city. The elders’ motivatiuns will be ofparamount importance in determining 
~ Q W  
the characters interact with one another, in addition to exploring how they 
proceed to rebuild the shattered Masquerade and bring the city under control. 
Sometimes a seemingly simple plot can be a springboard for any 
number of interesting subplots, particularly in an all-elder chronicle. This 
sample plot is a strong but flexible framework to which you can attach an 
almost endless variety of story adornments to flesh out the idea. This basic 
story can be expanded in any number of directions. For example: 
What happened to the previous prince and primogen? If the 
conclave spared their lives, they could be intent on reclaiming their 
lost authority. This sets up a politically motivated chronicle, charged 
with tension as the two factions attempt to prove the other’s incom- 
petence and malfeasance. If the former rulers of the city are desperate, 
they may even go as far as to exacerbate the problems they created in 
an attempt to demonstrate that their successors are no better equipped 
to run the city than they themselves were. 
Perhaps it is too late, and the thin veil of the Masquerade has 
been irrevocably pierced by the keen eyes of vampire-hunters. Agents 
of the Inquisition or the federal government could be establishing 
their presence in the city by the time your characters assume control 
of their new domain. The characters will become the hunters’ quarry 
in the nights to come, and must find a means of thwarting the hunters 
or suffer a fate even worse than that of their predecessors. 
Factions who have waited patiently for a sign ofweakness may choose 
this opportunity to strike. An anarch gang or Sabbat pack may select the 
changing of the guard as the perfect moment to attack, hoping to cause 
sufficient confusion that the new rulers will not be able to mount a defense 
or counterattack. Introducingagroupofantagonistsneednot meanlocating 
moreplayers; theactivitiesofthegangorpackcaneasily takep1ace“offstage” 
as the antagonists assault the elders’ holdings and resources. 
Twists, surprises and layers of intrigue add depth and interest to 
what was a relatively uncomplicated plot structure. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Integrating Elders into a 
Regular Chronicle 
Many Storytellers who read this book will already be engaged in 
running a chronicle, but will wish to incorporate some of the ideas and 
concepts they read here into the story. Does this mean that you must 
scrap the current chronicle and start an entirely new story, or that you 
must rewrite your entire plot and subplots in order to accommodate elder 
characters?Not at all. Withsome conscientious effort, youcansmoothly 
integrate elders into an established chronicle. Add new elders into your 
regular chronicle sparingly. Dropping one or two elders into a game in 
progress can increase dramatic tension and give the plot a richer texture. 
Introducing too many new elders can create chaos. 
Before adding an elder to your chronicle, examine the current plot 
and consider the effect a new elder will have on it. How will the 
incoming elder alter the existing story elements (for they are almost 
certain to change once she is introduced). How will you go about 
casting the new role? Will you give the player a pregenerated elder to 
ensure that the new character meshes with your chronicle, or will you 
allow her to create her own character within the guidelines you supply? 
If you’ve already spent a great deal of time in crafting the chronicle, 
you should be able to identify the types of problems you are likely to 
encounter, and what kind of preventive medicine is in order. 
The existing plot of your regular chronicle is probably already a 
challenge for your current players. Is it also of sufficient interest to the 
arriving elder? Will the presence of a new elder completely invalidate 
the plot, or will the story be enhanced? The plot might well be of less 
interest to the elder than her own personal goals, in which case you 
should identify which of the existing storylines her goals might 
intersect with. Will this contribute to the game? 
An example of a chronicle which easily could be derailed by the 
introduction of an elder concerns a coterie of neonate anarchs who are 
trying to overthrow the prince. The neonates are singly far less 
powerful than the elder, and even collectively might have difficulty in 
preserving their safety. How will these anarchs react to the sudden 
appearance of a Tremere elder who offers to assist them? Attempting 
to integrate this particular elder into that particular chronicle might 
not be such a wise idea. Why should the neonates believe that a 
-
-
u
 u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
132 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Tremere, much less an elder, would be interested in them? While it 
might be interesting to see how the Tremere gains the trust of his 
young compatriots, it could also drag out and take time away from the 
main plotline. A better choice might be to introduce a Brujah elder 
who wants to guide the young anarchs in their struggle against the 
oppressive status quo, or to urge them to use nonviolent means to get 
what they want from the prince. 
Perhaps you have set up a framework regarding the efforts of a 
Camarilla-held city to root out invading Setites who have established a 
temple in the vicinity. Currently, the characters are making steady 
progress in discovering the existence of the Setites and the location of 
their lair. Now that the enemy has been found, the characters must 
decide how to deal with the threat. Does the about-to-be-introduced 
elder possess any Abilities or Disciplines which, if utilized, will suddenly 
make this task too simple? If so, it isn’t necessary to scrap the main plot 
completely, but consider revising some of the remaining portions of the 
story to ensure that it continues at the proper pace and remains 
interesting for the players. You might decide, for instance, to change the 
manner in which the Setites are infiltrating the city, making them more 
difficult to discover, or you might improve the defenses around their 
temple if the elder is persuaded to join the assault. 
You must also give some attention to the effect of the elders on the 
individual subplots which are currently in progress throughout your 
game. Will the elder change the scope or viability of any of these 
personal storylines? Can the elder be safely and effectively introduced 
into any of these subplots? Consider two characters deeply enamored 
of one another. If the elder is added into this relationship, it creates a 
love triangle with a multitude of new possibilities. The elder may 
possess motivations and goals similar to those of one or more existing 
characters, establishing a potential for conflict that you must deter- 
mine how best to manage. Two Toreador ancillae may combine their 
resources to obtain control over an important civic institution, such 
as a city orchestra. Introducing an elder Ventrue who possesses the 
desire and resources to snatch the orchestra right out of the Toreadors’ 
grasp guarantees a new twist to your story. What happens if the 
Toreador decide to unite the rest of the clan against the Ventrue 
usurper, or if they hire a mercenary Assamite to do him in? 
You may decide to introduce the elder as a new antagonist - 
a 
Nosferatu antitribu, for example, who has recently arrived in the city 
for the dual purpose of exchanging information with his Camarilla 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


d rescuing a fellow Sabbat vampire from the prince’s 
e Nosferatu is unlikely to march into the Prince’s court 
and announce his plans to all andsundry, even if this approach saves 
a great deal of exposition time. The same holds true if the elder is 
intent on a peaceful mission, such as the pursuit of a fragment of 
ancient lore which might lead him a step closer to his goal of 
achieving Golconda. An elder Kindred would not survive long if she 
made a habit of revealing her true agenda to everyone she met. An 
elder’s business is her own, and she is within her rights to inform the 
nosy little neonates to buzz off. Of course, that will probably only 
serve to pique the players’ interest - 
what reason could an elder 
have for being in the city? 
Neonate and ancillae characters tend to gravitate toward elders, 
and you must take this fact into account when integrating an elder into 
your chronicle. If an elder and ancilla are of the same clan, it is 
understandable that the latter may feel some measure of kinship with 
the elder and wish to introduce himself to the newcomer. The Ventrue 
elder who enters a domain controlled primarily by Clan Brujah will 
certainly find herself the focus of a great deal of neonate attention from 
the very first night. Younger characters sometimes hope to request 
favors of their elders, and sometimes they plan to ride their coattails. 
Sometimes they seek another voice to involve in the simmering 
cauldron of local politics, and other times they hope to gain a new ally 
(or perhaps a convenient scapegoat for an impending fracture of the 
Masquerade). Neonates may be awestruck by these living relics, and 
approach them for advice or guidance (such as how to live as long as 
they have). Ancillae may find them a welcome voice of experience 
after dealing with neonates for so long (even though they themselves 
are now the “neonate” in the eyes of the elder). If the elder’s Nature 
and Demeanor permit it, encourage the player occasionally to dis- 
pense a few in-character snippets of advice or praise to the “deserving 
youngsters.” Such interaction can make the difference between a 
smooth transition and an unwelcome intrusion. 
Elders will most likely experience difficulty in steering clear of any 
prominent plot threads you have already woven into your chronicle. 
Indeed, it would be a very strange thing not to be approached by any 
younger vampires regarding some mystery or problem. Should an elder 
truly wish to remain aloof from a given plot or subplot, she may well 
be obliged to extricate herself continuously from difficult or even 
compromising positions. Requesting that one’s fellow Kindred leave 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


one alone often has the exact reverse effect, making the elder the 
direct center of plenty of unwanted attention- the assumption being, 
of course, that anyone who asks to be left alone has something to hide, 
and anyone who has something to hide is worth observing. Elder 
characters (and players) shouldaccept the fact that they will be subject 
to a certain degree of scrutiny and attention from their fellow Kindred, 
and should determine how they would react to these circumstances 
before they enter the chronicle. 
Elder Plot Hooks 
Rivals - 
There is nothing like good old-fashioned rivalry to stir 
up plenty of character-related conflict. If you plan to introduce more 
than one new elder into your regular chronicle simultaneously, con- 
sider providing them with a sufficient reason to view one another as 
competitors. Each elder should have some element in her background 
which intersects with the others, and those playing these elders should 
make an attempt to work out the idiosyncrasies of their relationship 
prior to joining the game in progress. 
Clan Matters -An effective means of introducing an elder into 
an ongoing chronicle is to make the character a representative of her 
clan bearing a message or instructions for the other members of her 
clan already in the city. Her own orders are to remain in the city and 
assist her clan in achieving its goals in this area. 
Traitor-The 
elder is a traitor and is fleeing those she betrayed. 
Perhaps she is a renegade Tremere seeking refuge from the minions of 
the Council of Seven, or maybe she is a Brujah anarch who failed to 
come to the aid of her pack and now attempts to escape their wrath. 
Consider if her treason is meant to engender sympathy or rage, and 
tailor the motive to be appropriately believable. 
Archons - 
The elder characters are a coterie of archons, the 
brood of a Justicar charged with enforcing the Masquerade and 
hunting diablerists. Rather than announce their identity and station 
to the prince, they arrive secretly in the city and pose as ordinary 
Kindred. Once established, they quietly begin investigating the other 
characters for potential breaches of the Traditions. 
Infiltrator - 
Much like the archon suggestion described above, 
the elder is a Sabbat pack leader intent on recruiting new members 
from among the city’s anarchs and disgruntled Kindred. 
Prince’s Lackey - 
If the elder character is of the appropriate 
clan and sect affiliation, she can be introduced as a new functionary of, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


or assistant to, the prince, sent by her sire as a favor to the prince, who 
in turn will teach her the nuances of ruling a Kindred city. The elder 
must cope with the various tasks the prince sets for her, while honoring 
the wishes of her sire. 
Methuselah Agent - 
The elder character is the spy of an 
ancient vampire who has only recently awakened from torpor. The 
Methuselah needs to know many details about how the world has 
changed since she slept, and what the Kindred of the city are now 
doing around her. The elder will probably be obliged to ask many 
questions and become interested in almost every aspect of the chronicle 
in order to fulfill the Methuselah‘s commands. 
Prince -This particular plot hook works best in a city without 
a current prince or with a prince whose popularity is on the wane. An 
elder who arrives in the city to announce her claim to domain, or to 
usurp the throne of the current prince, can galvanize the Kindred of a 
city into action either on her behalf or against her. 
Troubleshooting for Elders 
Your most potent defense against losing control of the chronicle 
is restraint. By now you will have seen that many players often enjoy 
creating the most powerful characters they can. This tendency to 
gravitate toward powerful characters is a condition endemic to 
roleplaying in general, and to The Masquerade in particular. Be 
prepared for requests and the occasional begging for characters and 
powers you know will upset your chronicle, but which the player wants 
in spite of your most persuasive arguments. Players want the “best” 
character - 
it’s a given in human nature - 
but too many players 
equate “best” with “most powerful” rather than “most interesting” or 
“most challenging.” If you ask someone why he wants to play a sixth- 
generation Brujah with the maximumnumber of Attribute, Willpower 
and Ability Traits, and he answers, “Because it’s fun,” chances are he 
means, “Because I’m tired of getting womped on, and I want to start 
womping now.” This type of player is not telling a story or roleplaying 
- 
he’s in a competition between himself and the other players. He 
believes that this game has winners and losers, that the winner is the 
player whose character is the last one standing at the end of the night, 
and he wants to be a winner. No matter what it takes, he wants to be 
a winner. Killing characters, derailing plot, driving you insane - 
whatever it takes to be a winner. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Restrain the impulse to give in to such requests; you’ll regret it 
when your story runs awry and new players are driven off by 
“Godzilla.” It can be tempting to give in to player requests (or 
demands), particularly if the player threatens to quit the game or 
disrupt the current chronicle. If you know that the player’s request 
is unacceptable because it will unbalance your chronicle, stick to 
your guns as the Storyteller looking out for your game. The 
enjoyment of your player group is more important than appeasing 
someone who is apparently not mature enough to participate in 
your story. 
Another line of defense is clarity. It is up to you to remind the 
players of their responsibilities when playing elders, whether your 
story is comprised solely of elders or a mixture of power levels. Even 
as you strive to live up to your own responsibilities as the Story- 
teller, so must the elders cooperate with you in fulfilling their end 
of the bargain. Tell your elders exactly what you expect from them 
and what you see as their responsibilities to the story. Perhaps you 
don’t want the elders to interfere with a particular subplot you’ve 
crafted for a new player who is trying out the game for the first time 
- 
too much attention from, or the untimely intervention of, the 
elders might overwhelm him, ending his interest in the game and 
depriving your troupe of a new member. Maybe you have decided 
that all elders must begin the game with an extra Beast Trait, or 
must possess no more than the usual Abilities or Influence Traits. 
Regardless of the exact stipulations, communicate these condi- 
tions to your elder players and make certain they acknowledge your 
expectations. Be as clear as possible when expressing your con- 
cerns, and allow the elders ample opportunity to ask questions. 
Armed with a mutual understanding of the elders’ places and roles 
in the chronicle, you can reasonably minimize the initial problems 
you might otherwise face. 
What happens if you unintentionally miscalculate the appro- 
priate power level for your all-elder chronicle, or allow a player to 
play an elder too powerful for the existing plot? The danger signs 
are easy to identify: 
Elders seem intent on turning every minor disagreement with 
other characters into lethal showdowns. 
Game sessions frequently degenerate into prolonged mob 
combats during which the noncombatants are particularly bored 
and unhappy. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Players appear intoxicated with the power of their characters 
and act irresponsibly, disregarding the Masquerade and relying on 
their elder powers to save them even from blatantly foolhardy actions. 
Key story elements are ignored or discarded in favor of Physical 
Challenges and combat. 
Players ask you to “do something” about a particular player 
whom they feel is causing disruption by the manner in which he 
portrays his elder. 
Characters die with an alarming frequency at the hands of elders. 
You might be tempted to raise the power level even higher in 
order to correct one or more of these undesirable situations - 
in a 
word, don’t. It is false logic to conclude that the threat of mutually 
assured destruction between characters will act as a deterrent. You 
might think that introducing even more powerful characters will 
slow down this kind of behavior or prevent it altogether, but you will 
find that power escalation only increases the frequency of disruption. 
Examine the problem and analyze what you perceive to be its cause 
before deciding exactly how best to handle it. 
Sometimes, hosting a “post-mortem” discussion with your troupe 
after the conclusion of a night’s game can give you some insight into 
the cause of any problems you perceived. Talk freely about the 
characters’ actions and their motivations - 
your players may sur- 
prise you with their explanations for their characters’ behavior. If 
their motives don’t wash, decide what you want to do about the 
situation. You could decide that your players simply aren’t ready for 
the privilege and responsibility of playing characters of this power 
level. If this is the case, try starting over with less powerful charac- 
ters. Talk with the players you feel are most disruptive and discuss 
their behavior. Maybe they play the game simply for the rumbles, and 
are not happy with your more intrigue-oriented plots. If you believe 
a single player is at the root of these difficulties, give him the option 
of modifying his behavior or leaving the game. Don’t sacrifice your 
enjoyment, and that of everyone else, for the sake of one disruptive 
player. If after a reasonable attempt at correction the same problems 
recur, you may be playing with the wrong troupe. 
Remember to keep an open mind and be flexible. Accept that 
your players will stray from the story, miss clues and take the game in 
unforeseen directions - 
that’s part of telling a story. Because of the 
difference in power between elders, ancillae and neonates, the elders 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


can often steer the plot where they wish by main force. Once an elder 
establishes her enhanced Status or physical power, many other 
characters are less inclined to refuse to carry out her wishes, reason- 
ing that it’s better to relinquish the clue to the elder rather to have 
one’s face pulped or memory erased. In other instances, elder char- 
acters can unintentionally create circumstances which alter the 
entire dynamic of your chronicle. A Malkavian neonate with a 
crucial clue falls afoul of the Nosferatu elder. He takes her down to 
the sewers for a prolonged “visit” to teach her better manners; 
meanwhile, the clock is running down, her coterie is frantic, and the 
clue which could have unlocked the plot is missing in action. 
If this sort of thing seems to happen frequently, try to find out if 
the players in question are simply acting out what they believe to be 
an interpretation of their characters’ motivations and Nature, or if 
they are pursuing some nongame-related goals which are dampening 
the fun for everyone else. Did the prince decide unexpectedly to 
execute a character for a ridiculously minor offense? Talk with him 
after the game, and be honest about your concerns. It’s possible he 
felt he was portraying a Derangement accurately and skillfully; 
maybe he was so caught up in the ebb and flow of the plot that he 
forgot to be respectful of other players. If you maintain strong, 
constant lines of communication with your players, you should be 
able to approach them and discuss such topics without making them 
feel defensive. Publicly berating players for seemingly inappropriate 
actions doesn’t do anything other than antagonize the players and 
make you look foolish. If you discover that the elder players believe 
themselves to be acting in accordance with your stated expectations 
and within the boundaries of their established motivations and 
goals, fixing any problems should simply be a matter of altering some 
of the plot elements as discussed above. 
Should you find that the elder characters are indeed acting 
outside the initial dictates of their character concepts and motiva- 
tions - 
creating new personal subplots, for example, without 
meaning to disrupt the game - 
your task is somewhat more of a 
problem. It’s best to involve some or all of the elder characters in 
finding a solution to this type of situation. Asking a particular elder 
to avoid interfering with a certain subplot might be somewhat 
inelegant, but might also maintain your chronicle’s viability. If you 
are certain that an elder character’s unintentional effect on the 
story is disruptive or harmful, you should feel secure in asking that 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


player to help you guide the plot in a more useful direction. Some 
Storytellers refrain from ever interfering in the chronicle’s direc- 
tion once it is set in motion, preferring to adopt a more laissezfaire 
relationship to the plot once it is underway and to let the tale grow 
in the telling. This strategy sometimes works for chronicles wherein 
the characters collectively do not have the power to disrupt 
significantly the flow of the plot. Even when your players roleplay 
responsibly, their actions can still send the plot off course. You 
must keep track of where the plot is going, otherwise you may find 
the chronicle ends abruptly and in a manner far less satisfying than 
you originally intended. It’s not about whether or not to let the bus 
run driverless, but rather about applying sufficient guidance and 
direction to ensure that everyone on the bus reaches the destina- 
tion with the maximum amount of fun and enjoyment. 
If you determine that a player is using the power of his elder 
character to ride roughshod over your plot and lord it over the other 
players because he enjoys doing so, you must deal with him immedi- 
ately before things go too far. Talk privately and candidly with the 
problem player. If you believe he has the potential to learn to 
roleplay responsibly and to respect the other players, by all means try 
to allow him to continue to play an elder character, perhaps with the 
assistance of a trustedNarrator, or you may consider challenging him 
with a significantly less powerful, but no less interesting, character. 
If he chooses not to mend his ways, ask him not to return to the game. 
This can be uncomfortable, but in these circumstances it is to the 
long-term benefit of yourself and your players. 
Character Advancement 
Players who do not currently play elders will want to play them 
eventually, particularly if you introduce them into your regular 
chronicle. Meanwhile, your elders players will want to advance their 
own characters, You’ll be inundated with requests to grant more 
experience points, to permit neonate characters to rise to elder status, 
and to allow the chronicle to progress in time to the point where 
previously young characters are now wearing the mantle of elder. 
There are several techniques you can use to guide character advance- 
ment, and all require some measure of restraint on your part, tempered 
with the acceptance that characters are not static but ever-changing 
entities, just like the people who play them. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Awarding Experience to Elders 
Players will always want more experience points than you award, 
and you will always want to make certain that characters do not 
advance too quickly. Players may argue that elders are older and 
therefore smarter, and should therefore learn now powers and skills 
more quickly than non-elders, so why not give them a few more 
experience points per game session? In truth, these aged Kindred find 
that learning new concepts and skills becomes far more difficult with 
the passing of the centuries. The elders are the guardians of the status 
quo - 
change in Kindred society is anathema to them, and this 
staunch opposition to change manifests itself in their ability to learn 
new things and cope with new ideas. Advancements which move like 
quicksilver through the younger, more receptive Kindred mind and 
body flow sluggishly through the barriers of mental and physical 
resistance. Thus, the older the Kindred, the more difficult it is for her 
to increase her powers and capabilities. 
Increasing the necessary experience point expenditures for elders 
based on the characters’ age reflects the increased difficulty the elder 
vampire experiences in attempting to advance his abilities. Recognize 
that elders who advance faster than, or even at the equivalent rate of, 
non-elders will pose serious problems sooner rather than later. Elders 
usually begin with more Traits and Disciplines than non-elder charac- 
ters. If you permit elders to advance faster than non-elders, or even at 
the same rate, the power differential will only become that much 
greater. Conversely, don’t advance the non-elder characters so quickly 
that the 13th-generation neonate Gangrel who was Embraced five 
years agocansinglehandedly thrash the eighth-generation elder Tremere, 
embraced many centuries ago, in only a month‘s worth of games. Such 
progress should be moderate to slow, and amended by your better 
judgment if you believe things are advancing too fast or too slow. 
Awarding elders too many experience points can lead to the 
elders becoming overconfident in their own abilities or omnipotent, 
damaging the game for everyone involved. Allowing elders to stock 
up on Advanced and Master-level powers too quickly creates a game 
wherein they are almost impossible to deal with - 
they begin to 
cause huge waves with the smallest gestures, casually destroying 
characters and subplots with equal ease. Restraint and balance are 
the keys to preventing this disaster, and you should exercise them 
ceaselessly. If you must err when advancing a character, it is best to 
err on the side of caution. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I 
This chart reflects the difficulty inherent in the elder’s skill 
advancement. Locate the elder’s chronological age on the first 
column. The subsequent columns establish the experience 
point costs for new Attribute Traits, Ability Traits, Disciplines 
and the removal of Negative Traits. 
New 
New 
New Clan 
Character‘s 
age 
Attribute 
Ability 
Discipline 
201-350 
3 
2 
B 4, I 7, A 10 
35 1-500 
4 
3 
B4,17,A10 
501 -650 
5 
4 
B5,18,A11 
65 1-800 
6 
5 
B 5,18, A 11 
801 -950 
7 
6 
B 6,19, A 12 
95 1 - 1000 
8 
7 
B 6,19, A 12 
1001+ 
9 
8 
B 7, I 10, A 13 
901 + 
10 
9 
B8, I, 11, A 14 
B = Basic, I = Intermediate, A = Advanced 
Character‘s 
Raise 
Non-Clan 
Remove 
age 
Ability 
Discipline 
Negative Trait 
201-350 
2 
B5, I8,A 11 
3 
35 1-500 
2 
B 5,18, A 11 
4 
501-650 
3 
B 6,19, A 12 
5 
65 1-800 
3 
B 6,19, A 12 
6 
801-950 
4 
B 7, I 10, A 13 
7 
95 1 - 1000 
4 
B 7, I 10, A 13 
8 
1001+ 
5 
B 8, I l l ,  A 14 
9 
Pretenders 
Pretenders are vampires who are elder in generation but not necessarily 
in age. Such Kindred are only technically considered “elders” in the eyes of 
their more experienced peers, especially those who have existed far longer 
than any Pretender. However, Kindred emphasize respect for purity of 
bloodline, and thus Pretenders are grudgingly admitted into elder society due 
to the power of the vitae flowing through their veins. Pretenders are honored 
for their lineage, not for themselves. Examples of Pretenders are those Kindred 
who were recently Embraced by powerful sires, granting them the privilege 
of unusually low generation, or those sinister vampires who have committed 
the heinous crime of diablerie and stolen the power of their elders. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Players who wish to create Pretender characters should follow the 
character creation system outlined in Laws of the Night, with the 
following modifications: 
Pretenders start at 10th Generation, and may lower their 
generation further by means of Negative Traits. No Pretender may 
start with a generation lower than eighth. 
Pretenders receive the additional Status Trait Known. 
All Pretenders are automatically one Trait down in any Social 
Challenge involving a true elder. 
Pretenders should be prepared to receive some degree of animosity 
and reluctance from their true elder peers. Camarilla Kindred may 
confine their distaste for Pretenders to social sniping and snide 
remarks about the character’s age, but the scorn of Sabbat vampires 
may take on far more ugly connotations. 
Time-lapse Advancement 
Some chronicles are designed to span decades or even longer 
periods of time. They may begin, for example, during the Enlighten- 
ment and continue through the present day, with each game session 
representing a number of years, decades or centuries. During such 
chronicles it is inevitable that some characters will achieve elder status 
simply by virtue of their survival. Characters who become elders 
should naturally experience some degree of improvement over their 
abilities and skills, depending on what they have accomplished and on 
how much time has passed during the chronicle. You must decide 
exactly how to handle the progression to elder status for your players. 
There are two useful methods to facilitate this process. 
Method One: Start the characters as neonates when the chronicle 
commences. At the conclusion of each game session that reflects a 
transition into the next era when the characters are active, award 
them each a certain number of experience points. The characters may 
spend their experience points on whatever enhancements they wish 
during the transition. 
Method Two: Begin the characters on their journey as in Method 
One, above. Decide how much time will pass in your chronicle, and 
establish the appropriate transition periods. When you reach a tran- 
sitional stage, award your players experience points as you normally 
would for this type of story. However, permit them to spend their 
experience primarily on those skills and capabilities they managed to 
use successfully during the last portion of the chronicle. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


New Rules and Clarifications 
Blood 
Blood Addiction 
Lupine blood is addictive to Kindred. Whenever a Kindred feeds 
from a Lupine, he must conduct a Static Mental Challenge, with the 
difficulty being the sum of the Lupine’s current Rage and Gnosis 
Traits. If the Kindred wins, he is free from addiction; if he loses, he 
gains the Derangement Addicted, and must feed from Lupine blood 
whenever possible. Failure to feed thus on a regular basis may provoke 
frenzy, sending the Kindred after the closest Lupine. Kindred that 
become addicted to Lupine blood may attempt to “kick the habit” by 
expending a Willpower Trait and retesting the initial Static Chal- 
lenge. This retest may be attempted only once, and failure means that 
you automatically frenzy on the Derangement. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood Expenditures 
Blood expenditure limitations are valid in all cases except where a 
Discipline would otherwise require a vampire to spend more blood than his 
generation would allow. In such cases, the Kindred can use blood in excess 
of generation limits, but only for purposes of activating that Discipline. 
In other words, a vampire with Form of the Beast may spend the 
three Traits of blood in order to change instantly to the form desired, 
but may not spend blood for any other reason until the next turn - 
about a minute or so. 
Blood Storage 
To store mortal blood successfully (as opposed to coming home to 
a refrigerator full of clotted gunk), a character must have a minimum 
Medical Ability rating of two or at least one level of the Health 
Influence. Human blood, under proper conditions, can be stored for 
one month. Then, even under the best of circumstances, it goes bad. 
Drinking bad blood renders no nourishment, and may induce the 
vampire to vomit up good blood already in his system. 
Kindred vitae has radically different properties than does mortal blood. 
Carefully stored, it can provide nourishment and pleasure (or bonding) for 
quite some time. Neonate blood rarely lasts more than one year, while a 
Methuselah's blood does not lose potency for a century, if not longer. 
Note: Questions of blood potency also apply to drinks left for 
Kindred in torpor. 
Blood Traits of Food Source 
The following chart lists the number of Blood Traits found in 
various creatures. If afood source is drained completely it dies, with the 
exception of Garou, who lose one Health Level for every two Blood 
Traits taken. Humans and animals lose two Health Levels per Trait 
taken, and die if completely drained. 
Cat 
1 
Chicken 
1 
Child 
2 
cow 
8 
Dog 
2 
Garou 
8 
Human 
4 
Rat 
1 
Food Source 
Blood Traits 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Willpower 
Replenishing Willpower 
Willpower is replenished in full once the Storyteller determines 
the story is over. The process of replenishment takes precisely as long 
as the Storyteller says it does. 
Staying Awake 
The expenditure of Willpower is required for a vampire to remain 
awake during the day. This has nothing to with being able to move 
about normally in the daylight - 
a vampire must spend Willpower to 
move, even in the darkest, dankest crypt, as long as the sun is in the sky 
overhead. If a vampire wishes to remain awake during daylight hours, 
he must spend one Willpower Trait for every four hours after sunrise 
during which he wants to stomp around. Obviously, given this restric- 
tion, a vampire can’t stay up all day too often. 
Frenzy 
A Willpower Trait may be spent to prevent frenzy for 10 minutes. 
If the character has not removed herself from the situation, person or 
object provoking her at the end of that time, she must spend another 
Willpower Trait to stave off the inevitable for another 10 minutes. 
This continues until either the character is away from the provoca- 
tion, she runs out of Willpower or she gives in and frenzies. 
Replenishing Traits 
Once per night, a character may choose to spend a Willpower 
Trait and regain all lost Traits in any of the three Attribute categories 
(Social, Physical, Mental). This does not mean that a character may 
spend a Willpower Trait and regain all lost Traits in all categories; a 
Willpower Trait must be spent for each category the character wishes 
replenished. The expenditure is limited to one per category per night. 
Ignoring Wounds 
Those characters without Endurance may find themselves in dire 
straits if they have sustained wounds. The expenditure of one Will- 
power Trait allows a character to ignore all wound penalties for one 
challenge. Characters with Celerity should note that each additional 
action is a separate challenge, and requires a new Willpower Trait to 
be spent for each action in which the character wishes to negate his 
wound penalties. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TheLongNight 
The following Disciplines apply to the clans and bloodlines found 
in The Long Night. 
Abornbwe 
Master 
Devil-Channel 
With the expenditure of two Blood Traits, you may channel your 
Beast to concentrate in a specific area of your body. The concentration 
of Beast-nature manifests itself as a film of black, clotted blood 
covering the appropriate body part. The Beast may only be forced into 
one spot at a time; one cannot Devil-Channel into one’s hands and 
throat simultaneously. 
Hands: You may now inflict aggravated damage with your bare, 
bloody hands. You also gain the Physical Trait Tough for the five 
minutes during which this power is active. 
Torso: You may now use your Blood Traits more efficiently. While 
using this power, you double the number of Physical Traits you can 
gain through using blood. 
Throat Your voice is now terrifying, so much so that on a successful 
Social Challenge all mortals must flee you for 10 minutes. Awakened 
beings are down two Traits in any challenge involving you for the next 10 
minutes if you beat them in a Social Challenge while using this power. 
Feet: By stamping your feet on the ground, you cause a tremor. All 
those in your vicinity must win a Static Physical Challenge against 
your Physical Traits or be knocked to the ground for one minute. 
Taking the Skin 
By slaying a creature and expending a Mental Trait, you subsume the 
Beast-nature of your victim. Doing so allows you to transform yourself into 
the creature for the remainder of the night. In order for this power to work, 
your victim must be a preadator of some sort, and must have at least one 
Blood Trait’s worth of vitae - 
no ants or mosquitoes are permitted. 
Upon completion of the proper preparations, you transform physi- 
cally into your victim and gain its appearance, Physical Traits and 
abilities. (Note: The full effect only takes if the victim is a “natural” 
creature. Taking the Skin of a Lupine or other vampire, for example, 
only grants you the victim’s appearance.) 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I- 
Taken Skins 
Some standard shapes taken for transformation include: 
Shape 
Traits Gained 
Other Powers 
Hawk: 
Dextrous and Grucefd 
Flight 
Leopard: Quick x3 
Claws capable of Aggravated Damage 
Bear: 
Resiliat x2, Tough, 
Vipms 
Ogham 
Master 
Dragon Lines 
By spending a Willpower Trait, you can inscribe powerful runes 
on your body, which becomes a channel for mystic energy for the 
duration of a single night. Once the power is in effect, you may spend 
a Mental Trait to retest any challenge directed at you. The only 
caveat is that your feet must be in contact with bare soil or uncarved 
stone at the time - 
flagstones or other trappings of civilization 
negate this Discipline’s effects. 
Inscribe the Forgotten Names 
You now know the names of some of the monstrous beasts that 
once walked the Earth, and by using their names you can summon 
them to you. By succeeding in a Static Social challenge (difficulty at 
Narrator’s discretion - 
dragons should be much harder to conjure 
than, say, an oracular pig) you can summon some mythic beast. The 
beast’s powers and temperament are determined by the narrator. Just 
because you summon the creature doesn’t mean it’s necessarily freindly . 
Furthermore, you have no control over the creature you summon, so 
using this power is risky at best. Inscribe the Forgotten Names may be 
used only once per session. 
Deimos 
Master 
Clutching the Shroud 
By drinking the blood from a corpse you may access some of the 
powers of the Restless Dead. Once you have consumed five Blood Traits 
of dead blood, you may use that blood for one of the following purposes: 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood Trait expended. This will let you see wraiths and any other 
denizens of the Underworld, but will not give you the ability to 
communicate with them. 
You have the ability to determine the relative health of anyone 
you see, mimicking the ghostly ability Lifesight. While this power is in 
effect, others must tell you how many wounds they have and how many 
Blood Traits are currently in their systems. If you see a mortal, you are 
able to determine if he suffers from any disease or illness. You gain this 
insight for 10 minutes per Blood Trait expended. 
The last use of this power is the most visibly macabre. By 
expending all five Blood Traits, your skin hardens as though under 
the effects of rigor mortis. You are immune to wound penalties and 
gain the additional Physical Trait Resilient x 2 for the remainder of 
the night. 
Lilith’s Summons 
Your blood may now be smelled in the world of the dead. By 
spitting a Blood Trait on a target, you “mark” that target, causing 
Spectres to arrive and seek out the individual for their own unholy 
enjoyment. By spending a BloodTrait, you may also summon aspectre 
to you and communicate with it, though you do not gain any control 
over the Spectre called. For details on Spectres, see Oblivion. 
Mortis 
Master 
Sense Death’s Imminence 
You may now detect sudden ebbs of life energy when things die. By 
succeeding in an Extended Static Mental Challenge versus a difficulty 
determined by the Narrator, you are able to discern the way death has 
affected places and people. 
1 success 
2 successes You are able to discern the basic cause of death. 
3 successes You know the general location and some minor 
4 successes You know the specific location and a very strong idea 
5 successes You can see through the eyes of death itself with 
You may sense if death has occurred nearby. 
specifics as to the cause of death. 
of the events that took place surrounding the death. 
crystal clarity and know exactly what happened. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Plague Wind 
Similar to the Advanced power Black Death, you are now able 
to unlock the decay in everything around you. By touching a 
target and expending two Willpower Traits, you cause humans 
and animals to become infected with a deadly plague. The in- 
fected target takes one aggravated wound every 30 minutes until 
death occurs. Cainites thus infected must defeat you in a Mental 
Challenge or fall into torpor. Cainites who succeed will not 
sicken, but are now plague carriers and will spread the disease 
when they feed. Their “carrier” status lasts for the next three days. 
Valeren 
Master 
Warding the Beast (Healer) 
With this power you are to pull the soul of another and take 
it into your own body, where powerful healing magic can be 
worked upon it. To activate this power you must defeat the 
target, if he is unwilling, in a Mental Challenge (though no 
challenge is required to affect a willing target). Upon doing so 
you are able to expend one temporary Willpower Trait to restore 
a Trait of the soul’s Via rating. While you have control of the soul 
within you, the body is a mindless shell without motavation or 
free will. If the body is destroyed the soul immediatly vanishes 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and you automatically lower your Via rating by three. The souls 
of these Cainites become Spectres as described in MET: Oblivion. 
This power will not work under the following conditions: the 
target has a Via rating of one, or is a follower of Via Diabolis. You 
may only use this power once in the targets lifetime. T o  keep a 
soul for too long is heinous and cruel. For every day past the first 
that you keep the target’s soul in your body you must lower your 
Via rating by one. 
Loving Agony (Warrior) 
Your touch now causes pain and actual damage to your 
enemies. With the expenditure of a Willpower Trait (and a 
Physical Challenge to touch your target if he is not immobile), 
you may do one non-Aggravated wound per Blood Trait spent. 
Due to the unbearable pain, a Cainite that takes more wounds 
in this manner than he has Willpower Traits automatically 
enters frenzy. 
Safe Passage (Healer) 
Safe Passage is similar to the Presence power Majesty, but 
functions in a much more passive way. Someone who wishes to 
harm you must first defeat you in a Mental Challenge; if he fails, 
he not only forgets why he was attempting to hurt you, but also 
finds reasons to avoid you for the remainder of the evening. This 
power only works on casual acquaintances and strangers, as those 
who know you well will be able to overcome the suggestion of 
non-aggression. Once learned, this power is always active. 
Aversion (Warrior) 
You are now able to make others seem unlikeable. By touch- 
ing the target and expending a Blood Trait, you grant him the 
following Negative Traits for the remainder of the night: Repug- 
nant x 2 and Callous x 2. The victim must act out these Traits 
once they have been installed, though he has no idea where they 
came from. 
In addition, you can use Aversion to get others to attack your 
target. At your discretion, you may engage in a Mental Chal- 
lenge with anyone you choose. If you win, you can ‘(suggest” that 
the loser attack the target of Aversion. The “attacker” will 
rationalize assaulting the victim as her own idea, perhaps even 
making up a story for the sheriff about something the victim did 
to her. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Am I able to spend a Willpower Trait to attempt to detect an 
Obfuscated entity passing by? 
No. You can’t use your Willpower Trait to negate the effects 
of the another’s Obfuscate. 
Is a character limited in the number of times she may spend 
Willpower (up to the character’s current maximum) to re-enter her body 
if someone with Necromancy successfully removes her soul from it? 
No. Home is where the heart is (not to mention the liver, lungs, 
kidneys.. . ). 
Can I transfer my experience between characters? 
The polite answer to this one is, “Are you out of your freakin’ 
gourd?” No, players may not transfer experience from character to 
character! Jar1 the Gangrel learned his lesson that night; there’s no 
reason Winslow the Ventrue should benefit even if the same player 
stands behind both. The only time a Storyteller should allow a 
player to create a new character with experience to spend is in the 
case of a “good death” - 
usually one accepted for the benefit of the 
chronicle as a whole. 
If the character lived by her own code (the player portrayed her 
Nature and Demeanor well), and the character went out in an 
appropriate fashion, the supervising Narrator may allow the player 
to apply that game’s experience award to her next character. These 
awards can’t be “saved up,” though, and once you have a bonus like 
that on the books, you can’t gain another until the previous one is 
spent. Simply put, you can’t use multiple experience awards to 
create a godlike starting character. 
What is the maximum number of experience points I can gain? 
This up to your individual troupe, but we recommend no more 
than six experience points per month of fairly active gameplay. You 
shouldn’t be going from warm snack to elder too quickly, after all. 
What is the maximum amount of experience I can receive at one time? 
Players can receive up to three experience points per game 
How does damage work in regard to causing Final Death? 
If a Kindred suffers sufficient aggravated damage to reduce her 
past the “Torpor” Health Level, she dies the Final Death. Note that 
session. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


all the damage she has suffered need not be aggravated; the last one 
is the one that matters. 
What is the range of Mental and Social Disciplines? 
All Mental and Social Disciplines are limited to direct unaided 
line of sight (no bionoculars, periscopes, telescopes, etc.), unless 
otherwise stated. Storytellers should, of course, feel free to play 
with this limitation when the story demands. 
How long do characters stay in torpor? 
Once in torpor, characters sleep for two weeks per Beast/Path 
Trait they possess, though the sleep can be longer for older Cainites 
- 
anything that knocks a Methuseleh into torpor packs a helluva 
wallop. Vampires awakening from torpor do so in a state of blood 
frenzy, and must feed immediately. 
How often does my character replenish his Traits? 
Physical, Social and Mental Traits are recovered in full after 
the character has had at least eight hours of sleep. For gameplay 
purposes, this means the next night of play unless something goes 
horribly wrong. 
How long is a MET session? 
A session is defined as one period of play for a game of Mind’s 
Eye Theatre, usually lasting for an evening. A story’s ending is 
determined by the Storyteller, though having four to six sessions 
per story is common. It is usually considered ended when the 
majority of plot devices have been accomplished. When the rules 
state that something is returned or replenished at the end of the 
story, it is strictly a Storyteller decision as to when this occurs. 
My vampire character has a Garou Fetish that requires Gnosis to 
activate. Is there any way can 1 activate its powers? 
Short of giving it to a werewolf, no. 
Can non-Assamite blood wake Assamites from torpor? 
No, it cannot. Non-Assamite vitae is poison to clan members, 
and if ingested into their system it causes damage as normal. 
Assamite antitribu blood can bring clan members out of torpor, but 
no other vampires’ blood can. 
Can Assamites commit diablerie ? 
No, they cannot. Assamites gain no benefit from Kindred vitae 
whatsoever. Only Assamite antitribu can commit traditional 
diablerie. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Can Nectar of the Bitter Rose be used multiple times from the same 
victim (if a 13th-generation Kindred drinks dl five draughts from a 
seventh-generation victim, can he be lowered to eighth generation) ? 
Absolutely not. One shot and then you’re done, kiddo. 
Can a blood draught from Nectar of the Bitter Rose be storedfor later 
consumption? 
No. The draught of blood must be consumed at the time of the 
ritual or it goes rancid. 
My character has Vicissitude. When will he get taken over by a 
Souleater? 
It depends. If you think the Black Hand is full of it, Souleaters 
aren’t a concern. 
If you do believe in Souleaters, the answer is still “Never ever 
ever.’’ Souleaters are Narrator characters, and should never be 
handed over to players. Characters with Vicissitude never metamor- 
phose into Souleaters unless the player relinquishes the character to 
a Narrator. 
What Disciplines can be used while one is staked? 
None. Having a stick through your sternum limits your flexibil- 
What Disciplines can be used in conjunction with Celerity? 
Animalism: Embrace the Beast, Conquer the Beast 
Fortitude: All 
Potence: All 
Presence: Majesty 
Protean: All 
Serpentis: The Serpent’s Tongue 
Spiritus: Aspect of the Beast, The Wildebeust, Spirit Form 
Vicissitude: Horrid Form, Body Arsenal, Plasmic Form 
Visceratiku: S tonestrength, Rockheart 
Note: Plasmic Form may not be activated while one is using 
Celerity, but if it has already been activated, it may be used as normal. 
What is the effect of having zero (0) Blood Traits? 
For Kindred, blood frenzy (assuming that you have the Hunger 
When a character learns Eyes of the Serpent do her eyes permanently 
ity of response. 
Beast Trait). For mortals, revenants, ghouls and Garou, death. 
change appearance? 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


No. 
When I use Spiritus, Necromancy or Spirit Thaumaturgy, are the 
spirits summoned Umbral nature spirits or wraiths? 
Spiritus only summons Umbral nature spirits. Necromancy sum- 
mon wraiths. Spirit Thaumaturgy is usually used on Umbral spirits, 
but may function on wraiths at the Storyteller’s option. 
Laws of the Night FAQ Clarifications 
If the target of Beast Within does not have any Derangements, what 
happens ? 
If the target has no Derangements, then Beast Within affects 
Beast/Path Traits. If she has no Derangements or Beast/Path Traits, 
nothing happens. 
While using Possession, can I use the host body’s Disciplines? 
All Physical Disciplines (Celerity, Fortitude, Potence, Vicissitude, 
Viscerutika) stay with the body possessed and the possessor may use 
them. All other Disciplines are linked to mental ability and knowl- 
edge, and as such, the possessor cannot use them. Of course, you can 
take your mental Disciplines with you when you skip bodies. 
What happens when a Kindred with Majesty meets a Kindred with 
Majesty ? 
The Kindred with the lower generation’s Majesty takes prece- 
dence. If both Kindred are of the same generation, their powers 
cancel one another out and they react normally. 
What happens if I am using Possession and the body I’m in is killed? 
If you are currently possessing another Kindred, you die. If you 
are possessing a mortal (ghouls do count as mortal), you revert back 
to your normal body, minus half your current Willpower Traits. 
These Traits are not lost permanently, and may be regained at a rate 
of one per night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Merits 
FlaWS 
Beast Traits I Path Traits 
willpower 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
o o o n n o o o o o  
Blood 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
o o o o o o o o o o  
hflWellCeS 
Derangements 
WJJ, 
W@aN 
m m  
character 
Chronicle 
Natme 
Demeanor 
concept 
am 
Oeoeratioo 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A 
Abilities 20 
Acquired Tastes 30 
Advantages 20 
Age of Consideration 35 
All-Elder Chronicle 124 
Attributes 20 
Avoiding Unnecessary 
Violence 114 
B 
BeastiPath Traits 22, 47 
Blood Addiction 145 
Blood Expenditures 146 
Blood Storage 146 
Blood Traits 21 
Blood Traits of Food 
Source 146 
C 
Caitiff 44 
Camarilla 39 
Character Advancement 
140 
Character Creation 
Chart 18 
Exampleof 23 
Name 19 
Assamite 42 
Brujah 40 
Daughters of Ca- 
cophony 42 
Followers of Set 42 
Gangrel 40 
Giovanni 42 
Lasombra 44 
Malkavians 40 
New 45 
Clans 40 
Nosferatu 41 
Ravnos 43 
Salubri 43 
Samedi 43 
Toreador 41 
Tremere 41 
Tzimisce 44 
Ventrue 41 
Costuming 106 
D 
Defining the Role 96 
Disciplines 21, 59 
Abombwe 148 
’ Devil-Channel 148 
Taking the Skin 148 
Animal Succulence 60 
Conquer the Beast 60 
Clairvoyance 61 
SoulScan 61 
Bring Forth the 
Dawn 61 
Celerity 62 
Quickness 62 
Velocity 62 
Chimerstry 62 
Fata Morgana 62 
Mass Reality 63 
Pseudo Blindness 62 
Clutching the Shroud 
149 
Lilith’s Summons 150 
Kindred Spirits 63 
Mind of a Killer 63 
Obedience 64 
Rationale 64 
Animalism 60 
Auspex 61 
Bardo 61 
Deimos 149 
Dementation 63 
Dominate 64 
Fortitude 64 
Dark Ages Gargoyles 
impewiousness 64 
Invulnerability 64 
Melpominei 
Gargoyles 45 
Lasombrahtitribu 
Art’s Traumatic 
Old Clan Tzimisce 47 
Essence 65 
Earthsword 66 
TheMissingVOice 64 
Plague Wind 15 1 
Sense Death’s 
Imminence 150 
DarkhgTnckery 65 
Riddle Phantastique 
65 
Necromancy 66 
Insight 66 
Spirit Possession 66 
Torment 66 
Anesthetic Touch 67 
Pain for Pleasure 67 
Vitae Block 67 
Cloak the Aura 67 
Conceal 68 
Obtenebration 68 
Eyes of the Night 68 
Shadow Step 68 
Dragon Lines 149 
Inscribe the Forgotten 
Names 149 
Potence 69 
Demolition 69 
Force 69 
Presence 69 
Love 69 
MindNumb 69 
Protean 70 
Flesh of Marble 70 
Form of the Ghost 70 
Foul Blood 71 
Taste of Death 70 
Weakness 70 
Obsession 71 
Temptation 7 1 
Engling Fury 72 
Spirit Form 72 
Summon Spirit 
Beasts 71 
Mortis 150 
Mytherceria 65 
Obeah 67 
Obfuscate 67 
Ogham 149 
Quietus 70 
Serpentis 71 
Spiritus 71 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Holdings 33 
Jilted Paramour 33 
Thanatosis 72 
Path of Blood 5 1 
Path of Caine 48 
Path of Cathari 48 
Path of Death and the 
Path of Ecstasy 55 
Path of Harmony 49 
Path of Honorable 
Path of Humanity 49 
Path of Power and the 
Inner Voice 50 
Path of the Warrior 56 
Path of Typhon 54 
Compress 73 
Dust to Dust 73 
Hag’s Wrinkles 72 
Corruption 77 
Elemental Mastery 76 
Path of Conjuring 73 
SpiritThaumaturgy 74 
Accord 49 
Aversion 152 
Path of Paradox 52 
Loving Agony 152 
Safe Passage 152 
Warding the Beast 151 
Body Arsenal 78 
PlasmicFonn 78 
I 
Bond with Terra 79 Independents 42 
Influence 26 
Rockheart 80 
Influences 21, 26 
leon 79 
Stonestrength 80 
Bureaucracy 26 
voices ofthe castle 79 
Church 26 
Finance 26 
Whispers of the 
Health 27 
Chamber 79 
High Society 27 
Industry 27 
Legal 28 
Elders 12 
Media 28 
Experience 14 1 
Occult 28 
Chart 142 
Police 28 
Time-lapse Advance- 
Politics 29 
ment 143 
Street 29 
F 
Underworld 29 
FAQ 153 
Thaumaturgy 73 
Soul 48 
Valeren 151 
Vicissitude 78 
Viscertika 79 
Skin of the Chame- 
E 
Transportation 29 
University 29 
Laws of the Night 156 L 
G 
Long Night, The 148 
Gehenna Cults 37 
M 
Generation 21 
Golconda 35 
Merits and Flaws 3 1 
H 
New 31 
Harbingers of Doom 98 
Hierarchy of Sins 48 
Appropriate 3 1 
Bastard Childe 31 
Death Wish 33 
Enlightened 34 
Known Diablerist 32 
Loyal Childe 32 
MatricidePahicide 32 
Paramour 34 
Poverty 31 
Prestation Debt 33 
Prestation Gifts 34 
Recently Arisen 32 
Secret Diablerist 32 
Vainglorious 33 
Vengeful Childe 3 1 
Mind’s Eye Theatre 12 
P 
Paths 47 
Clan-Specific 50 
Path of Blood 50 
Path of Ecstasy 55 
Path of Paradox 52 
Path of the Warrior 56 
Path of Typhon 54 
Prestation 120 
Pretenders 142 
R 
Rituals 80 
Antitribu 87 
Bottled Voice 90 
Craft Bloodstone 89 
Dominion 92 
Eldritch Glimmer 90 
Eyes of the Beast 92 
Eyes of the Night- 
hawk 88 
Fire Walker 90 
Friend of the Trees 90 
Illuminate Trail of 
theprey 88 
Impassable Trail 88 
Keening of the 
Banshee 91 
LionHeart 92 
Machine Blitz 88 
Mindcrawler 92 
Mirror Walk 91 
Paper Flesh 93 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Power of the 
Invisible Flame 89 
Preserve Blood 89 
Respect of the 
Animals 91 
Steps of the 
Terrified 89 
Summon Guardian 
Spirit of Torment 93 
The Haunting 90 
Touch of Night- 
shade 91 
Will 0’ the Wisp 89 
BloodCall 86 
Blood of Peace 86 
Healing Blood 87 
Binding the Beast 82 
Bladed Hands 82 
Blood Contract 85 
Bloodwalk 80 
Calling the Restless 
Spirit 80 
Curse of 
Clytaemnestra 85 
Donning the Mask of 
Shadows 80 
Eyes of the Past 83 
Flesh of Fiery Touch 83 
Gentle Mind 83 
Haunted House 83 
Heart of Stone 83 
Illusion of Peaceful 
Death 84 
Innocence of the 
Assamite 86 
LightofVengeance 86 
Child’s Heart 84 
Mouming Life Curse 81 
Principal Focus of 
Vitae Infusion 8 1 
Protean Curse 84 
Rebirth of Mortal 
RendingSweetEatth 84 
Rite of Introduction 8 1 
Scent of the Garou’s 
Passing 82 
Stone Slumber 85 
The Open Passage 82 
The Unseen Change 85 
The Watcher 85 
Wake with Morning’s 
(Evening’s) 
Freshness 82 
Creating an Elder 
Character 99 
Effective 105 
Elder Motivations 
101 
Elder Perspectives 
100 
Establishing Alliances 
112 
Interacting with 
Ancillae 111 
Interacting with 
Elders 114 
Interacting with 
Neonates 109 
Responsible 99 
Blood 145 
Vanity 81 
Roleplaying 95 
Rules 
Clarifications 145 
Important 13 
New 145 
Willpower 147 
S 
Sabbat 43 
Snide Commentary 115 
Status 21 
Storytelling 123 
Characters 126 
Elder Plot Hooks 135 
Example of 13 1 
Integrating Elders into 
a Regular 
Chronicle 132 
Plot 128 
Scale 124 
Scope 125 
Theme 130 
Symbols of Authority 95 
T 
Trait Maximums 34 
Troubleshooting 136 
W 
Willpower 21, 147 
Frenzy 147 
Ignoring Wounds 147 
Replenishing 147 
Replenishing Traits 
Staying Awake 147 
With 147 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1
