Legends of the Garou
1
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
™
By: Geoffrey Fortier, William Spencer-Hale,
Sam Chupp, Mike Tinney, Ian Lemke


The Apocalypse
2
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
© 1994 by White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved.
Repreoduction without the written permission of
the publisher in expressly forbidden, except for the
purpose of reviews. Mind’s Eye Theatre and The
Apocalypse are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. All
characters, names, places and text herein are copy-
righted by White Wolf, Inc.
The mention of, or reference to any com-
pany or product in these pages is not a challenge to
the trademark or copyright concerned.
Because of the mature themes involved,
reader discretion is advised.
Credits
Authors:  Geoffrey Fortier, William Spencer-Hale,
Sam Chupp, Mike Tinney, Ian Lemke
Development: Mike Tinney, Ian Lemke
Editing: Brian Campbell
Art Direction: Richard Thomas
Layout and Typesetting: Aileen E. Miles
Cover Design: Larry Schnelli
Photographer: Debora Brown
Models: Cindy Dimmitt (Black Fury), Sherri Sutton
(Bone Gnawer), Kathy Su (Children of Gaia), Anna
Burrell (Fianna), Nathan Altier (Get of Fenris), Harley
Gould (Glass Walker), Debora Brown (Red Talon),
Jamie Stith II (Shadow Lord), Josh Hancock (Silent
Strider), Jerry Weldon, Jr. (Silver Fang), Jennings
Sheffield (Stargazer), Daniela Gomez (Uktena), Brian
Wicker (Wendigo), Kristy Stith (Black Spiral Dancer)
and Tom Persing (Fomori).
Special Thanks to:
Fill “Orthographer” Brewkatto — for his creative
misspellings of his co-workers’ names.
Rob  “35,999” Hatch — for knowing when to cash in
on his automobile warranty.
Brian “Angst” Campbell — for making it into an art
form.
Andrew “ Oh, Chun Li!” Greenberg — for what he
does with his Street Fighter action figures.
Ken “gurgle, gurgle, glug, glug, boog, boog” Cliffe —
for the noises he made just before passing out at the last
party.
Bill  “The Pusher” Bridges — for keeping Civilization
on his computer, and making it availiable to the rest of us.
Jennifer “ Better Off Dead” Hartshorn — for accept-
ing her position as Wraith Developer.
Sanctioning Information
If you would like to run a Mind’s Eye Theatre
game at a convention or similar large venue, you
need to obtain sanctioning from us in advance. Our
support materials are top-notch, and our costs are
low. Recently, Night Owl Productions has become
an official subsidiary of White Wolf Game Studio.
Night Owl is the place to inquire concerning sanc-
tioning for Live-Action games. We can be reached
at:
Night Owl Productions
4598 Stonegate Industrial Blvd.
Stone Mountain, GA 30083


Legends of the Garou
3
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Contents
™
Contents
Legends of the Garou
4
Chapter One: Introduction
10
Chapter Two: Setting
16
Chapter Three: Character
26
Chapter Four: Characteristics
36
Chapter Five: Rules
114
Chapter Six: Systems
122
Chapter Seven: Advice
138
Appendix
147


The Apocalypse
4
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Legends of the Garou
5
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Blood Dance
The night was darker than most. Shadows danced
through the thick, gray fog like restless ghosts, moving
through the darkness like spirits intent upon goals no
mortal should know. The howling wind carried hollow,
mournful whispers into the night. A chill breeze snaked
about the forest and into the trees, causing the leaves to
rustle as if in fear. The fire that burned in the small
clearing added little comfort to the figures gathered
there. Its crimson flames were delicate and pitiful against
the formidable, penetrating silence of the night. It was a
night for tales, tales of loss and horror, fear and death,
nightmares and murder. It was a night to remember
stories that were best forgotten.
Sean O’Flaherty, known as Laughs-at-Blood by the
Garou, stepped suddenly into the clearing, causing ev-
eryone gathered to start at the gnarled figure that stepped
into the firelight. Many members of the sept regarded
him with uncertainty because of his metis nature. Laughs-
at-Blood chuckled quietly to himself as he allowed a
smile to cross his pale, gaunt features. He loved a good
horror story. He carelessly flicked an auburn lock from his
face with a delicate, scarred hand and took his place in
the center of the gathered circle. As a Fianna loremaster
in the Sept of the Singing Sword, it was his place to tell
stories and pass on tales to be remembered for all times.
Telling tales was his passion in life. He enjoyed capturing
and holding an audience’s attention as he wove his
stories. Laughs-at-Blood also had a hunger to be the
center of attention— after all, he was Irish.
The gathered Garou glanced up at the loremaster as he
gazed into the fire; his bright emerald eyes reflected the
flickering flames. Despite the demanding presence of the
Fianna Galliard, the circle maintained a vigilant watch,
mindful of the creeping blackness of this haunted night.
Something did not seem right. Those gathered this night
were from all tribes. Even the Red Talons sat growling in
the glow of the flames. This was a night for brothers and
sisters, one where differences could be cast into the fire
and all could be of one spirit. Come morning, when the
sun would rise and the fire would be nothing more than
a gray, smoldering memory, prejudices would be proudly
plucked from the ashes and worn again like badges. Yet,
in the darkness of this night, tomorrow did not exist.
Laughs-at-Blood cleared his throat and threw his
hands into his pockets to keep them protected from the
night’s chill. He bowed his head solemnly and, in a
hoarse whisper, began his tale...
“There are things in the shadows that writhe and hiss,
spitting their contempt for our kind. They wait, ever so
patiently, for one of our kind to be caught alone and
unaware.”
One of the gathered Garou, a Stargazer pup, stood at
the edge of the clearing. She had risen from the circle and
had taken a few steps into the darkness. As Laughs-at-
Blood spoke these words, she quickly turned and rejoined
the gathering. This time, she sat a little closer to the fire.
Laughs-at-Blood smiled, turning his face from the child
as he continued his tale.
“We all know of these beasts. The Wyrm and its
brothers wish to destroy us. Only then will the Wyrm be


The Apocalypse
6
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
able to succeed in its foul plan. If this happens, then all
is lost. We must be strong.
“Remember, though, that there is more to the Wyrm
than its scheming, black minions. Aye, much more. The
Wyrm is among us even as we speak, its tentacles moving
silently between us. The Wyrm is everywhere.” The
small crowd sat closer together, sharing glances with one
another and casting their gaze into the dancing shadows
of the night. “This is not a tale of the Wyrm we see.
Instead, it is a story of the Wyrm we don’t see— the
Wyrm that is able to live among us, tricking us into
believing it is Garou and then dragging us into the night
to eat our souls one by ONE!” The sudden shout sent a
wave of horror into the souls of everyone gathered.
This time, Laughs-at-Blood did not smile.
“This tale is about those who take our form to spill our
blood. This is a tale of the Skin Dancer.” All was quiet
now. Even the owls and the crickets ceased their mid-
night symphony, as if they wished to hear the tale as well.
Night cloaked the gathering, and the fire’s protection
seemed small and insignificant by comparison.
“In the days of my youth, when I was no older than
some of you, the Sept of the Singing Sword was stalked
by one who disguised himself as one of us. To the Sept, he
was known as Gloom... just Gloom. He only spoke when
he was spoken to, preferring silence to any form of
conversation. He had arrived from afar. In fact, no one
knew of his origin. He had appeared at the sept one day
asking for shelter. As he was of the Changing Breed, we
were obligated to comfort him. Little did anyone know,
a deceiver had stepped into our lives, one who was intent
upon dragging us all screaming into hell.
“I remember that as he walked into the sept, he did so
with an arrogant stride. His black eyes surveyed every-
thing with a quiet, purposeful evil. As he walked, his gaze
caught mine, and, as I was just a pup, I ran to the elders,
seeking safety in their company. Shrouded in his weath-
ered cloak under a black hood, he was quite frightening
to a child. For me, this was only the beginning of the
terror.
“For those of you who may not have heard of Skin
Dancers, let me explain. Skin Dancers are like people, I
guess, except that they’ve been tainted by the Wyrm.
This causes them to become evil, giving them the desire
to destroy any who would oppose the Wyrm... mainly us.
Humans become Skin Dancers through a horrific ritual
involving Garou blood and the pelt of a slain werewolf.
Exactly how this is done, I don’t know. I’m glad that I’ve
never witnessed such a ritual, because if I did, I’m sure the
rage would grip me and I would feast on the flesh of all
involved. Hmmm, not a bad idea, really. Anyway, back
to my point...
“For a while, all was quiet, and the stranger kept to
himself. Life at the sept went on as usual. We accepted
the stranger into the fold, despite his odd ways. Of course,
we had no idea of the darkness that was in his soul, only


Legends of the Garou
7
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
that he was a bit aloof. No one spoke to him, and he kept
to himself. After a while, it was as if he was not even
there. That was our greatest mistake.
“In the months that followed, horrible things began to
happen. The first to fall to this villain was a pup no older
than some of you. She had ventured into the forest alone,
as we often do, only this time she did not return. The next
day, concerned members of the sept gathered and called
a hunt to find the missing child. Unfortunately, they did.
“What was left of her was nauseating. She had been
ripped open from neck to navel. Her entrails had been
spread around the small clearing that her body was found
in. She had been completely skinned. Her muscles and
tissue were naked to the morning sun, and they glistened
with blood. Although I was too young to hunt with the
adults— I had yet to reach the age of my Rite of Passage—
I can still imagine how she would have looked on that
morning. At times, those images still haunt my dreams.”
Laughs-at-Blood stepped from the circle and into the
darkness of the night. For many long moments, he stared
into the night, his thoughts unknown to all. The moon
illuminated his face, and a tear could be seen making a
purposeful trek down his face. Laughs-at-Blood stared
into the face of Luna and whispered something that no
one else could hear. He then angrily wiped the moisture
from his face and stepped back into the circle. His face
was devoid of emotion.
“Her name was Rolls-in-Clover,” Laughs-at-Blood
continued, “and she was my Song-Sister. We had made
our vow of the song when we were very young, as the
Fianna do. It was the first time that I had felt the rage rise
within me. I remember the bittersweet taste of it in the
back of my throat as I howled my sadness at her loss. Yet,
since I was not old enough and was not considered an
adult to the sept, I could do nothing to avenge her. I could
only mourn.”
Laughs-at-Blood bit his lip hard as he stared into
ground. A small trickle of blood, a shiny, crimson trail of
despair ran down his chin as he remembered. This was a
tale that was difficult to repeat, but one that had to be
told.
“The Ahroun called together a war party to hunt down
and destroy this minion of the Wyrm that waited just
outside our door. Gloom, silent and sullen as always,
joined the war party with the other warriors. Little did
anyone know that the killer was among their ranks. They
went into the woods, howling and screaming their rage
into the sky until, at last, the sept was silent. Only the
very old and the very young remained behind.
“The hunt was useless, of course. There were no
monsters lurking in the forest. As the warriors hunted
their imaginary horrors and those who remained at the
sept surrendered to sleep, Gloom slipped quietly away
from the war party and made his way back to the sept.
Quickly, he crept about the sept, avoiding the light of the
moon as he stalked his next victim.
“Outside my hut, I heard the soft sounds of feet
scraping lightly on the ground. The sound mixed with


The Apocalypse
8
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
the other noises of the night and filled my heart with
terror.
“Remember, I was but a child, and monsters were very
real to me. Yet this time, the terror was not my imagina-
tion. This time, the terror was but a heartbeat away.
“The door opened slowly, and through the moonlit
crack, I spied a pair of sinister red eyes in the darkness.
Without hesitation, Gloom entered my small room and
quickly closed the door behind him, blocking my escape
and leaving me isolated from the rest of the sept. A
wicked grin crossed his face as he looked down on me. He
stood silently at the door, crouched as if he was waiting
to strike. From the folds of his weathered black cloak, he
pulled a long knife. Its blade gleamed with silver in the
moonlight, and the edge measured at least a foot in
length.” Laughs-at-Blood pulled a knife from his belt,
holding it above his head and displaying it to all. He then
lowered it and began to slowly walk around the fire as he
continued his tale.
“I tried to scream, but before I could, Gloom pounced
upon me and smothered my face with his huge hand. I
struggled beneath his grip, but to no avail. He was three
times my size, and he used his weight to pin me to the
ground. I remember the glint of the moonlight on the
blade as he raised it above his head, preparing to thrust it
into my bowels. I could only watch in terror as he did so.
Above me, the monster paused and smiled, relishing in
the terror he instilled in me.
“As the blade began its descent, the noise from the
returning war party filled the clearing. When the sounds
reached his ears, he stopped. The blade hovered just
inches from its mark. I bit into his hand, catching him off-
guard, and he swiftly retrieved his hand from my face.
Knowing this to be my only chance, I screamed at the top
of my lungs, warning the war party of my danger. Gloom
paused for a moment, glaring at me in pure hatred before
releasing me and bounding for the door. Before he reached
his goal, the door burst open, and the war party rushed
into my small hut and came to my rescue.
“Several members of the sept grabbed Gloom and held
him captive while the leader, Sings-of-Death, ques-
tioned me about what had happened. I told him everything
as the tears ran down my face. I shook uncontrollably in
fear. Once I had completed my story, Sings-of-Death
stood and approached Gloom, meeting him eye to eye in
the darkness.
“Sings-of-Death reached down and wrenched the dag-
ger from Gloom’s hand, breaking his wrist and filling my
room with screams of pain. I could only smile. He then
commanded the others to release him so that Gloom
would have the opportunity to defend himself. It is not
the way of the Garou to destroy a defenseless opponent.
For many long moments, they stood face to face, each
glaring into the eyes of the other, before Sings-of-Death
lost his patience with the coward. He thrust the blade
into the coward’s gut, twisting the knife so as to open a


Legends of the Garou
9
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
wound large enough for the villain’s intestines to spill out
onto the floor. Again, I could only smile.”
As Laughs-at-Blood told the story, he used the knife to
show his anger, cutting and thrusting at the night air to
demonstrate how Sings-of-Death disemboweled Gloom
so many years ago. The gathering sat quietly in awe as he
did so, rejoicing in the slaying of one so evil.
“However, Sings-of-Death did not kill Gloom— that
was an honorable way for warriors to die, and this beast
did not deserve such honor. Instead, he removed the
knife and threw it onto the floor. Gloom slumped to the
floor with a look of pain and horror etched on his face, the
look men have when they know they are about to die.
Sings-of-Death took me by the hand and began to lead
me from the room, but I told him that I wanted to watch.
I wanted to appreciate the death of the one who mur-
dered my Song-Sister. Sings-of-Death allowed me to
stay, but sent the other members of the war party from the
room. As they left, they spit upon him and cursed him
one by one, asking Gaia to dispose of such garbage
accordingly. Within moments, all that remained in the
darkened room were Sings-of-Death, the dying coward,
and myself.
“I watched him as his breathing became short and
labored. I knew that it wouldn’t be long until death
overtook him and only his lifeless shell remained as a
reminder. I approached him carefully, retrieving the
blade from the floor and placing the cold steel against his
throat. I knew that the only thing worse than not being
allowed to die in battle was to be slain by a child, a mere
pup with no warrior’s skills. I looked to Sings-of-Death.
He nodded his approval, knowing my intentions, and
allowed me to reap my revenge on the beast.
“I did not wish to slay him quickly, as I was sure that
he did not allow Rolls-in-Clover a merciful or an honor-
able death. On the circle of floor around where he lay, I
began the Blood Dance, the dance of frenzy before battle.
Granted, it was choppy and unpracticed. I was only a
child, but the dance exclaimed the dishonor of his death.
Sings-of-Death sat back against the wall and waited.
“Once my dance was complete, I lunged at the de-
ceiver, plunging his own dagger into the hollow of his
throat and twisting it violently. For a few seconds, he
gurgled and blood spewed forth from the wound as he
fought for breath. It was to no avail. After a few moments,
he slumped silently and died on the cold floor. I wiped the
tears from my eyes and left the room, leaving behind a
warm corpse, a proud sept leader and the last step of my
youth. At that moment, I became an adult. My Rite of
Passage followed soon after that night.
“It was this knife that took the life of my beloved sister
and later wrenched the last breath from her murderer. I
will carry this blade for the rest of my life, and, when
death finally takes me to Gaia, I will give it to Rolls-in-
Clover to show that her death was avenged.”
Laughs-at-Blood contemplated the blade as moon-
light glistened off its lethal, silver surface. He then
tucked it back into his belt and stepped outside the
gathering.
“Always remember,” Laughs-at-Blood said as he made
his way into the forest and away from the gathering, “that
the Wyrm is everywhere. It does not only dwell in the big
corporations, and it does not always make itself known.
Sometimes it is a subtle evil that stalks in darkness.
Sometimes the Wyrm lives among us, disguising its true
self. Sometimes the Wyrm lives in our own hearts.” With
these words, Laughs-at-Blood turned and walked into the
depths of the forest, disappearing from view and becom-
ing one with the night.
Around the fire, the remaining Garou sat silently for
many long moments, listening to the sounds of the night
and reflecting on the events of the evening. Each one in
turn left the circle, returning to the forest and pondering
thoughts known only to them. Before long, all that
remained was the smoldering embers of the fire and a
wispy trail of smoke that lifted from the coals to mingle
with the mist-shrouded darkness. In the forest, all was
quiet.


The Apocalypse
10
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter One: Introduction
11
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
What is Mind’s Eye
Theater?
This game is probably different from anything you’ve
ever played before. Within the pages of this book, you’ll
find all the information necessary to catapult your imagi-
nation beyond the boundaries of traditional tabletop
games. Rather than sitting around a table and rolling dice
to determine your character’s actions, you create the
action; as stories unfold, you become both actor and
screenwriter.
Mind’s Eye Theatre is akin to improvisational the-
atre: you are given, or create, a character who has a
personality and goals. You enact a story that takes place
in a live setting. The players interact with one another as
though they are their characters. Narrators occasionally
step in to play the parts of antagonists or adjudicate rules
disputes. Often, though, especially in larger games, the
players themselves play the antagonists. Most scenes are
played out in real time. Interruptions are only made when
there is a rules dispute or a change of scenes.
In Mind’s Eye Theater, there are no limits to the
worlds you can explore. In this game, no dice conven-
tions or bulky rulebooks hamper your freedom of expres-
sion. This is the quintessential environment for telling
stories. Through this game, you will come to discover the
impending Apocalypse that threatens the world. You
will assume the persona of one of Gaia’s guardians and
learn what it is to be a Garou. Apocalypse is a living
embodiment of storytelling.
The Art of Storytelling
Many years ago, long before compact discs, Dolby
stereo and cable television, there was storytelling. It was
a social activity, one where families and friends could
gather in comfort and share the experiences of life,
passing on the wisdom gained from living. Storytelling
was a proud tradition, a tradition that brought entire
communities together to share stories and celebrate in
the joy of being alive. As time passed, however, storytelling
eventually took a distant backseat to other art forms;
television, radio, film and multimedia assaulted our senses.
We do not intend to condemn the modern world. On
the contrary, the wonders of today’s civilization have
given us the ability to disseminate ideas and receive
information from all parts of the world. Technology has
also brought us closer to the written word, allowing
“Doomsday... the Final Battle...
Doomsday... Apocalypse...”
—Ministry, “Grace”
Chapter One:
Introduction


The Apocalypse
12
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
everyone access to the triumphs and failures of our
history. The purpose of this book is to convey the idea
that storytelling can still be a vital medium in the modern
world, and maybe, just maybe, it can give us a broader
understanding of our world, along with the ability to
make it a little brighter.
Live-action storytelling is a step up from tabletop
gaming. Instead of having a gamemaster direct you through
various encounters created by her imagination, you are
free to guide yourself through another world. You have
control over the character you play, and the decisions are
still left to you. A mediator, known as the Narrator, will
settle conflicts with other players and detail the world
with which you interact. Beyond that, everything de-
pends on you.
There are no secrets to pass on about storytelling, no
great mysteries that remain shrouded and forgotten.
Storytelling cannot be taught. The art of telling stories
must be practiced and experienced. There are fantastic
stories hidden within us all, tales screaming for escape
and waiting to claw their way into the light of day.
They’re waiting to be experienced by others. The Apoca-
lypse gives us the ability to tell our stories and share our
dreams with others. Live-action is our device for reach-
ing into the past and bringing the art of storytelling to its
rightful place in the present.
The Narrator
The Narrator is, without a doubt, the foundation of
the stories told in The Apocalypse. It is her responsibil-
ity to detail the world that the players live in and settle
disputes when they arise. The rules in any game are
important, but in The Apocalypse, a game played in a
live setting, the basic rules are even more important. It is
mandatory that the players do as the Narrator instructs to
prevent any disruptions to the story.
During the course of a story, the Narrator will be called
upon to play many roles. It will be her task to assume the
personas of all the characters the players meet. In The
Apocalypse, she will play many roles, ranging from the
most loyal of allies to the most hated of villains. Her
portrayal of these characters must be believable. If she
can do that, she will add greater depth to the game and
heighten the enjoyment of it for everyone.
As a rule, it is advised that there be one Narrator for
every six or seven players. Although this number may
vary, this guideline allows for the Narrator to interact
more often with the players and helps them to delve
deeper into the story.
Responsibilities
As a Narrator, the content and flow of the story is
dependent on you. Indeed, the players have gathered to
explore and conquer the world you have created for
them. There is a lot riding on what you do and how you


Chapter One: Introduction
13
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
do it. Don’t let this discourage you— the rewards of
narrating are great, and although the task can be exhaust-
ing, the sense of accomplishment gained from a successful
story makes the whole process worthwhile.
The Narrator has the responsibility of hosting the
game and getting the story started. In addition to this, the
Narrator must keep the story going, insuring that it does
not bog down or get
out of control. She
must make sure that
the players have
plenty to do and do
not become bored.
During the course of
a game, you will be
called upon to do a
variety of tasks, such
as settling disputes,
roleplaying a wide
variety of characters
and setting the stage
for the various
scenes. Throughout
all of this, you must
remain patient and
attend to your play-
ers. 
After 
all,
without them, your
story would be noth-
ing.
Another respon-
sibility 
of 
the
Narrator— without
a doubt, the most
important responsi-
bility— is safety.
The Narrator must
make sure that the
area chosen for the
game is safe for play
and must ensure that
all the players abide
by the rules.
In the end, the
goal of The Apoca-
lypse is to have fun. As a Narrator, you are a storyteller,
a judge and a member of the supporting cast. Although
you have your work cut out for you, the rewards are worth
it. If you can tell a great story, your players will be
appreciative. They’ll also admire you because of the hard
work you undertook for their enjoyment. Don’t be in-
timidated. Weave a tale you and your players will always
remember.
The Character
The characters in The Apocalypse represent the
majority of the characters involved in the story and
ultimately control the outcome of the game. A character
can be anyone from any walk of life. A character is
nothing more than a reflection of the person who plays
him, and the facets
that make up the
entirety of any
given player are in-
finite. The only
limit to a character
is the player’s imagi-
nation.
Creating a char-
acter 
for 
The
Apocalypse is easy
and only takes a few
moments. Unlike
other games, there
are no extensive
character sheets to
fill out with volumes
of statistics and abili-
ties. Instead, only a
few abilities are nec-
essary to define a
character. However,
once this step is com-
pleted, the character
is only a skeleton. It
is up to the players to
flesh out and breathe
life into the charac-
ter, defining her
personality and de-
termining her role
in the story. To do
this, the player must
reach within herself
and find a spark of
life that will make
her character com-
plete. Only then
will the character be ready to join the story.
Responsibilities
As a player, your responsibilities are not as varied and
demanding as those of the Narrator, but you play an
important part, nonetheless. Players are the heart and
soul of a story. Without you, all the patient efforts of the
Narrator would be for naught. Appreciate the efforts of
the Narrator by respecting the rules and, first and fore-
most, take an active part in the game. Have fun.


The Apocalypse
14
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Winners and Losers
Unlike most games, the object of The Apocalypse is
not to “win”. In fact, there are no rules covering such
events. The goal of The Apocalypse is to tell stories, not
to achieve superiority over the other players. Your char-
acter possesses motivations and ambitions that make her
a vital part of the story. When coupled with the depth of
the other characters who take an active part, it makes the
game complete, ensuring that everyone is a winner no
matter how well their characters “succeed”.
Ultimately, the goal of The Apocalypse is to have fun.
After all, this is more of a story than a game.
Props
In order to compliment your storytelling and increase
your enjoyment of the game, props may be used. Props
can be anything that helps to define your character,
including costumes, makeup and jewelry. It is forbidden
to use guns, fake guns, stakes, staffs or anything that can
be misconstrued as a weapon in The Apocalypse. These
items could bring undue attention from people outside
the parameters of the game and could also prove danger-
ous. Have fun and employ any props that you feel are
necessary to enhance your character. However, if you
have any doubts as to whether a prop will be allowed,
consult your Narrator and heed her decision.
Elegantly Simple
This game was designed to be simple to play. The rules
are intended to be easy to understand and use. In this
game, the story is more important than the rules, and, to
a certain extent, the rules are elements of the story. We
use the words “elegantly simple” to describe our goal in
game design.
The Apocalypse is a storytelling game and, as such,
might be different from other games you have experi-
enced. The rules are aimed at resolving conflicts quickly
and allowing players to remain in character without
losing track of the story. Indeed, the rules are created so
that players can resolve confrontations without ever
stepping outside the confines of the story or their charac-
ters. We have made every effort to create rules that
maintain the integrity of the story and the background in
which the story is set.
The rules are intended more as guidelines than abso-
lute laws and are meant to be used at your discretion. This
game is yours. Make of it what you will. Modify and adapt
this game as you see fit.
With this book as your guide, you will be able to tell
stories about the horrid blight that plagues the world as
you and your werewolf brethren frantically heed Gaia’s
cry for help. Welcome to Mind’s Eye Theater: The
Apocalypse.


Chapter One: Introduction
15
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
• Don’t Touch! You should never actually
carry out any sort of physical contest. This is the
stage where you need to start playing pretend.
Act out only those things that don’t require
contact. This doesn’t mean you can’t shake
hands, but it does mean you should give other
cast members a lot of space.
• No Stunts! Don’t get physical. Never
climb, jump, run, leap or swing during a game.
Use the rules when you want to do something
even slightly outlandish— keep your roleplaying
low-key. Werewolves are violent creatures, but
the need to represent such things as violence
and combat is the reason we have rules: players
have to resolve conflict without physical con-
tact. Avoid attracting attention, and use your
imagination to its fullest.
• No Weapons! Fake and real weapons of
any sort are absolutely forbidden. This includes
staffs and guns of any sort, or anything used to
represent a weapon. Use your imagination!
Things can get out of hand when such props are
used, and they can give other people wrong
impressions.
The Rules of Safety
Due to the nature of this game, certain rules as to the
conduct of the players must be heeded. You have to be
very careful as to how you conduct The Apocalypse.
Behave yourself so that you and your fellow players can
enjoy the game. Do not bring attention to yourself from
outsiders. This game is to be played in the home, at
conventions or at other safe locations. Caution must be
taken for the preservation of the story.


The Apocalypse
16
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Two: Setting
17
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
A World of Darkness
The world of The Apocalypse is, in many ways, just
like our world. Children are born, grow up, go to school,
follow careers, grow old and die. The sun rises and sets day
after day. In the World of Darkness, however, everything
is just a little grittier, a little more corrupt and a little
more tainted. Gang warfare is rampant. Poor areas are
more impoverished. Even the “nice” places are tainted
with a hint of something dark and corrupt. This darkness
is expressed in the ambiance of Gothic Art, demon-
strated by the feelings expressed in the architecture of
high cathedral ceilings, gargoyles and towering grotesque
structures that pierce the night sky. It is also expressed in
raw rage, random violence and rebellion— basic ele-
ments of the Punk Movement. That is why we call the
World of Darkness our “Gothic-Punk” setting, because it
combines these two styles. Gothic-Punk is a synthesis of
both styles, and, in The Apocalypse, it’s represented in
a very different way.
Mystic Modern Primitive
Werewolves are not the same creatures who walked
across the black-and-white movie screens in the heyday
of Lugosi and Chaney. No, these are creatures of far-
reaching mythic status. They are both heroes and
monsters, a combination of wolves and men. Unlike the
werewolves of the movie screen, a Garou is born either as
a wolf or a human, and the Garou only learns to take on
other forms after she matures. A crucial fact of the
Garou’s birth— whether her mother was a wolf or a
human— is important to her basic nature. This deter-
mines her “breed”. Being a Garou is not the result of some
lycanthropic disease that’s passed from person to person.
The Garou are an ancient species with a lineage that
reaches back before history, and they can trace their
bloodlines back to the days when humans first stood erect
on two legs and used fire to drive back the darkness.
In the modern world, they have adapted to modern
ways while retaining their old mythic roots. In this
respect, they are both modern and primitive, and their
mystical nature (especially in the world of spirits and
“I went to the place where Luna shone/ on her sister’s
creations/ and I saw apes who were like wolves / and wolves
who were like apes / and knew that nothing would ever be the
same again.”
—The Silver Record
Chapter Two:
Setting


The Apocalypse
18
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
totems) is also very important to them. The Garou, as
they call themselves, are honorable, noble, savage, canny,
proud, angry, heroic, monstrous, inhuman, egotistical,
shortsighted, adaptable, wise, mysterious and tenacious.
As a species, they are perhaps the most hardy and the
most foolhardy of all the earth’s creatures. They believe
themselves to be the defenders of Gaia, an all-powerful
godlike being. If you ask a Garou who, or what, Gaia is,
you’ll get several different answers, and all of them are
considered correct. The Garou defend Gaia from the
Wyrm, a very real evil creature bent on consuming,
tainting and destroying all of Gaia. Not only is the Wyrm
real, but its evil spirits are powerful and prevalent every-
where, especially in the dark cities. Perhaps this is why we
call this “The World of Darkness.” Indeed, the Darkness
has allies. The Darkness is everywhere. Without the
vigilance of heroes, the Darkness will win.
The Silver Record: A History of the
Garou
In one of their most sacred writings, the Silver Record,
the Garou describe how their race emerged from the raw
earth and were given gifts by Luna, the crazy sister of their
mother, Gaia. The Record is a collection of Garou glyphs
and symbols, each of which mark an important stanza in
a long poem about the Garou. The Record speaks of when
the Garou were appointed to be the defenders of Mother
Gaia, who can be seen as the entire Earth, all of exist-
ence, or both. The Record tells of when the Garou were
given the power of shapechanging, the strength of Rage,
the insight of Gnosis, and the freedom of spirit-walking.
These were the birth-gifts given by the Four Winds.
The Garou’s Birth-Gifts
A Garou can control the shape he wears. He chooses
to be in a specific form, a form that is part of a spectrum
ranging from human to wolf. The most powerful (and
frightening) form of the Garou is the Crinos form, the
half-wolf, half-man shape. In this shape, they are tower-
ing monsters, but they are also deadly warriors.
Garou are creatures of Rage and Gnosis. Their Rage
enables them to be deadly warriors and can literally cause
them to move and act faster than the eye can see. Their
Gnosis allows them to tap into the spiritual wealth of
Gaia and use spiritual magic in her service. The Garou
are beings of two worlds: the Earth and the spirit world,
called the Umbra. They can step “sideways” into this
spirit world, where the spiritual is real and our reality is
only a shadowed reflection.
The Record also speaks of the Gifts that their mother’s
sister, Luna, gave to the Garou. Luna is revered for her
mystical knowledge, but is also reviled for the consuming
madness that she brings. Luna waxes and wanes, growing
full and slipping away to nothingness. The Moon sym-
bolizes the Garou’s own mystical side, and their changing
nature as well. It is said that great Luna took the first


Chapter Two: Setting
19
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Garou to her lodge in the sky and taught them secret
knowledge. She looked into each Garou’s heart and saw
what phase the Moon was in at the Garou’s birth; she
provided the Garou with Gifts to fit the personalities and
strengths of the different phases.
This fact defines a Garou’s role among her people,
called the auspice. A Garou’s auspice determines not
only the Garou’s role in society, but also some of the
secret lore with which they are familiar. The auspice is
determined by the phase that the Moon was in on the day
of the Garou’s birth.
The Sacred Ways of the Garou
Over the centuries, spirits have given wisdom and
knowledge of special powers to the Garou. These powers
and secrets are shared among the other members of a
Garou’s breed and auspice, and also serve to further
define a Garou’s purpose and role within a tribe.
The Tribes
The Record speaks of the tribes, fifteen groupings of
Garou that originally formed out of pack differences and
changes in pack hierarchy. Among the first of these were
the Silver Fangs (rulers and warrior-heroes), the Shadow
Lords (beta-wolves, the schemers and politicians) and
the Black Furies (the alpha females, who followed their
own path). Several of the more mystical, philosophical
Garou, those who watched the skies for portents and
omens, formed their own tribe, one they called the
Stargazers.
In the Garou’s far travels, the Record tells of the Garou
splitting into more tribes: the Fianna of Ireland, the White
Howlers of Scotland, the Get of Fenris of the Saxon, Norse
and Germanic areas, the Silent Striders, who vanished for
a time into the dark continent of Africa, only to re-
emerge later, and the Bunyip, who travelled to and
dwelled on the continent of Australia. The Record also
speaks of the far-travellers: the Uktena, the Wendigo and
the Croatan, who journeyed far across what would be-
come Russia and traversed the same Bering Land Bridge
that the original Native Americans (some of them re-
lated to the Garou by blood) crossed. During pre-history,
the Silver Fangs ordained that the Garou would watch
over the humans in much the same way a shepherd
watches over his flock, except that they encouraged the
Garou to cull the weakest and oldest from the human
herds by ravaging their villages and encampments. As a
result of this practice, which the Garou called “The
Impergium”, two tribes formed: the Red Talons, who were
all bred by wolves and favored the policy (they had grown
to hate the hunter humans), and the Children of Gaia,
who sought peace among the Garou and an end to the
Impergium, knowing that somehow the Impergium would
haunt them until the end of their days.
When cities rose up, two more tribes of Garou emerged:
the Glass Walkers, who learned to use the tools of human-
ity, and the Bone Gnawers, who had grown tired of eating
the leavings from their Silver Fang betters and sought
refuge and a new life in the cities. For a time, all Garou
prospered, and the Wyrm was held at bay.
But the Wyrm was merely gathering its coils, like a
cobra waiting to strike. When it did, it took several tribes
down with it. The Garou’s own inner rage caused the
death of the Bunyip tribe in Australia as the rest of the
Garou waged an unholy war against them and killed
them all, believing them to be tainted. The Croatan were
also completely and totally lost in a supreme self-sacrifice
to defeat a powerful minion of the Wyrm.
The most heinous betrayal, however, was that of the
White Howlers. They joined with the Wyrm, although to
this day, no one knows why. They went to the lair of the
Wyrm, and there they were introduced to an insane
labyrinth known as the Black Spiral. They danced the
Black Spiral and went over completely to the Wyrm,
whom they now serve. These creatures are called the
Black Spiral Dancers, and they are the incarnation of all
that is evil in Garou.  Their name has been removed from
the Silver Record, and they will be reviled forever.
Now only thirteen tribes remain, and the number of
Garou is shrinking yearly. A tribe can mean a great deal
to a Garou, especially if his heart and mind can accede to
tribal policies. The tribe is part heritage and part commu-
nity. When a Garou is among the members of his tribe,
he is not only participating in Garou society, he is
connecting himself to the wisdom of the Garou in the
same tribe. The tribe shapes a Garou’s political outlook,
his viewpoints on human society and the way other
Garou relate to him.
Those without a tribe are called the Ronin, for they
have no tutor or master. These people are usually
renunciates, and they do not seek to help or hinder the
Garou. Many of them are lost wolves, having lost some
vital element that makes them Garou. Many are also of
the Wyrm. The Ronin are mysterious, shadowy and
distrusted, but some of them are among the greatest of
Gaia’s heroes.
The War for Gaia
The Garou are at war with the Wyrm in the defense of
Gaia. Many also believe that these are the last days of
that war, that the prophecies of the Apocalypse are
coming true and that the end of all things, even the end
of Gaia, is near. This threat of Armageddon influences all
of the Garou’s actions. Patience is in short supply, and
understanding even more so. The Children of Gaia,
peacemakers among the Garou, have quite a job on their
hands. Garou at this time tend to fluctuate between two
extremes: frenzy, in which they are totally consumed
with the hatred of the Wyrm and of all corruption, and


The Apocalypse
20
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Harano, in which they are totally overwhelmed by the
imbalance of the fight they wage and become utterly
depressed. Somewhere between frenzy and Harano is the
balance that the Garou strive to attain, caught as they are
between them. Many Garou seek to strike this balance by
learning from their elders and from ancient lore.
The Legacy of Lore
The signs of the Apocalypse are foretold in prophe-
cies, and many of them have already come true. It is hard
to doubt that these are the last times. Because of the
immediacy of the War against the Wyrm, the Garou have
had to adapt their ways and traditions. Before this time,
the Garou had grown quite separatist, uniting along
tribal lines. Now all the tribes have been thrown to-
gether, and they must find ways to interact without
provoking either frenzy or Harano. In addition to the
Silver Record, the Litany is an ancient collection of laws
given from the very first Garou onward. The Garou have
created the Litany to help them combat the Wyrm
within, as well as the Wyrm without.
Among the proscriptions in the Litany is the restric-
tion that Garou shall not mate with Garou. When two
Garou mate, they produce a sterile, disfigured breed of
Garou called a metis, although sometimes such a fetus
will not even come to term. Mating with another Garou
is a taboo similar to incest. Since the presence of a metis
is a direct result of a violation of the Litany, metis Garou
aren’t well received and usually have to put up with the
stigma of being a metis for their entire lives, especially if
their disfigurement is obvious.
Another important idea in the Litany is “the Veil”, a
custom which dictates that the Garou must forever hide
their presence from the mass of humanity and keep their
existence and sacred knowledge secret.
This is aided by the power of the Delirium, an effect
caused by the Garou’s prehistoric participation in the
Impergium. This effect is useful in keeping the Veil,
because humanity has a hard time remembering the
presence of a rampaging Garou. When a Garou reveals
himself in its half-wolf, half-man shape, it triggers an
ancient memory in humanity and results in an all-
consuming fear and loathing. The human mind usually
responds by rationalizing and blocking out the memory of
the Garou.
Finally, many Garou legends and stories are preserved
as a means to keep history, illuminate Garou wisdom and
serve as object lessons for Garou wanting to become just
as famous. Yet the Wyrm continually captures and de-
vours bits and pieces of the vast legacy of lore that has
been left for the Garou. This is part of the Wyrm’s
ultimate plan to destroy them.
The Shadow of the Wyrm
Like Gaia, the Wyrm is a difficult entity to describe. It
is a part of the Triat, a powerful spirit that embodies a
fundamental force in the universe. Some see it as the
power of corruption and oblivion. The Wyrm is both a
physically real thing and a spiritually corrupt ideal.  It
seeks to devour all of Gaia.
The Wyrm’s hunger for Gaia is explained by its his-
tory. The Wyrm used to be the balancing factor in the
Triat, maintaining balance between the Weaver, which
governs patterned reality and order, and the Wyld, which
governs chaos, magic and pure creative energy. However,
at some point in the past, the Weaver went mad, and the
Wyrm responded by trying to balance its madness. The
Weaver responded by trying to weave the Wyrm into its
web. Caught in this web of madness, the Wyrm changed.
This corrupted the Wyrm and caused it to embody
corruption. The Wyld became disconnected, even as the
Weaver grew powerful enough to try weaving it into her
web. Now the Wyrm is unbalanced and seeks to consume
everything; it is no longer satisfied by merely keeping the
Weaver and the Wyld in check.
The Garou believe that humans are children of the
mad Weaver, flaunting their technology, cities and soci-
eties. They also believe that wolves are of the Wyld, as are
all natural and untainted places in the wilderness. Those
Garou born to wolves are thought to be more mystical,
even if they aren’t of a mystical nature. Consequently,
many feel that the metis, the breed that results from a
breaking of the Litany’s rules on mating, are of the Wyrm.
This is not necessarily the case, although it is true that all
metis bear some disfigurement. Disfigurement is a mark
of corruption among many Garou.
The Wyrm manifests itself in many forms; some forms
are physical, although the actual Wyrm resides in a
metaphorical Pattern Web. The spirit army of the Wyrm
consists of corrupted Incarna, Bane soldiers and Wyrm
Elementals, evil spirits that represent the Wyrm’s cor-
rupting influence and power.
The Wyrm is also a corrupt ideal, a source of hate,
defilement and taint in the world. Many humans un-
knowingly serve it when they do corrupt or destructive
things. Through Wyrm-taint, its power can be sensed by
the Garou in many mundane things. Soft drinks, book
publishing, the movie industry— the list goes on and on.
Indeed, the Wyrm lies waiting for anyone seeking escape
from the troubles of this world.
The Wyrm is quite powerful in these Last Days. Not
only does it have its own evil spirit armies in the spirit
world and in Malfeas, but it also commands a number of
Wyrm-infested humans called fomori. These humans
have powers and mutations because of their alliance with
the Wyrm. The Wyrm also has a number of followers in
the major corporations of the world, especially a powerful
corporation called Pentex. The company is almost com-
pletely possessed by the Wyrm and is ruled by a board of
directors that is thoroughly corrupt.
Among the Garou, the Wyrm is an ever-present threat,
and its Black Spiral Dancers are everywhere. The Wyrm


Chapter Two: Setting
21
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
has also revealed ancient evil lore to twisted humans,
humans who are Kinfolk to the Garou. The Wyrm has
taught them a ritual to change themselves into Garou
using the prepared skins of werewolves. These Skin
Dancers, as they are called, are in many ways worse than
Black Spiral Dancers, as they cannot be easily detected
for what they are. The Skin Dancers appear as normal
Garou to all but the
keenest mystical
senses, while it is ob-
vious by just looking
at most Black Spi-
rals that they are of
the Wyrm.
And yet, in The
Apocalypse, the
chief threat of the
Wyrm is not mon-
strous beings— it is
the Garou them-
selves, for the Wyrm
also resides within
them. It is said that
the power of Rage,
that which causes
frenzy, comes from
the Wyrm. It is the
Wyrm that calls out
to each Garou and
corrupts sacred ways
and holy quests with
its own agenda. The
Garou are always in
danger of falling into
its jaws. Whenever
any Garou seeks self-
ish power over
selfless honor, dark
lore over Gaia’s wis-
dom, or terrorized
infamy over re-
spected glory, the
Wyrm wins a small
but important battle
in its war, and the Garou in question is one step closer to
utter corruption. Intertribal prejudice and fighting be-
tween Garou also serve the Wyrm’s purposes, although
the Garou are loathe to abandon such flaws. Ultimately,
each time the Wyrm causes a Garou to step from the
Silver Path, Gaia’s Way, the Wyrm scores another deci-
sive victory against the Garou, and hence, all of Gaia.
Among of the greatest victories the Garou can achieve
over the Wyrm are conquering distrust, hatred and cor-
ruption among themselves.
Others Who Dwell in
Darkness
 The Garou claim the whole Earth as their territory
and can turn up almost anywhere. They aren’t restricted
to the cities or banned from them. However, the Garou
are not alone in the
World of Darkness.
They must contend
with many other su-
pernatural peoples
and entities.
One of the tradi-
tional enemies of
the Garou are the
Kindred of Caine,
the vampires, also
known 
as 
the
Leeches. Because
vampires feed on
blood, employ dark
powers, and dwell in
the rotten Wyrm-
infested cities, the
Garou believe them
to be “of the Wyrm”.
In many ways, how-
ever, the Leeches
and the Garou are
alike: they are both
predators, expertly
adapted to their
home environment.
They are both con-
cerned with their
human protector-
ate. They both hide
from the presence of
humanity and work
to maintain the il-
lusion that they are
not real. Both are
prone to frenzied
rages. Both employ magical powers. And yet, perhaps
because of their similarities, the Garou and the Kindred
are constantly at war.
Clearly the mostly-civilized Kindred are not the wild
primitive warriors that the Garou are, but the vampires
have powers of the mind and powers of blood magic that
the Garou do not have. In the end, the Garou and the
Kindred could easily assure each other’s destruction.
Thus, the Garou tend to watch the vampires of an area
and often seek to limit their influence without openly
assaulting them, although occasional flare-ups are ex-
pected. Usually, members of the Gangrel clan of vampires


The Apocalypse
22
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
interact most successfully with the Garou, as they are
closest to them in temperament.
The Garou also share the World of Darkness with
mages, who sometimes seek to drain the power of their
sacred lands. Cloaked in mystery, and often working as
servants of the Weaver, the mages are widely distrusted
and disliked by the Garou, although there are a few mages
who speak for Gaia. These mystics have found some
acceptance among the Garou.
The dark spirits of the dead, called wraiths, are often
glimpsed hovering just outside the range of Garou per-
ception, although what they wish of the Garou is still
clouded in mystery. They seem to be particularly at-
tracted to huge Garou battles, so much so that they have
been called “war crows,” as they often hover in the Dark
Umbra around battlefields.
Many Garou have relations with the faerie folk, par-
ticularly the Changelings of Earth who, born as humans,
have discovered their faerie origins and now lead dual
lives. The Fianna particularly have good relations with
these enigmatic but powerful and slightly mad creatures.
Truly, the Changelings are the daughters and sons of
Luna herself, and, as such, are cousins to the Garou. Still,
their bizarre and hard-to-understand codes of conduct
and ethics make it difficult to interact with them, and
many Garou believe that they serve the Wyrm through
their seemingly neutral stance in the War for Gaia. The
Changelings have, however, lost a lot to the advance of
the cities and will often aid the Garou, particularly if it
results in less civilization and more wilderness.
Other shapechangers also inhabit the earth. In an-
cient times, the werebears (Gurahl), wererats (Ratkin),
wereravens (Corax), werecoyotes (Nuwisha), werecats
(Bastet), werelizards (Mokolé), werespiders (Ananasi)
and other lycanthropes grew and prospered alongside the
Garou. The Garou grew jealous of their power, and,
claiming the right of genocide from Gaia, started a great
War of Rage against the other werecreatures. Now these
other shapechangers are mostly in hiding, and their
numbers are few. Only the Nuwisha and the Corax have
peaceful regular dealings with the Garou.
There are some humans who take it upon themselves to
hunt the Garou. They see them as monsters who wantonly
destroy human life. Perhaps they are attuned to the racial
memories of the times when the Garou used to cull their
ancestors from their “herds”. Perhaps they are simply react-
ing to the Delirium in a more violent fashion. Perhaps they
serve the Wyrm, or perhaps they see Garou as some kind of
diabolic evil that must be cleansed. Some are no doubt
thrillseekers and glory hunters, for the Garou are certainly
the most dangerous game one can hunt. Whatever their
motive, werewolf hunters can be deadly, despite their mor-
tal nature. Some have toughened themselves against the
Delirium, and some of them are Kinfolk to the Garou and
are thus immune to the Delirium. Many of them use magical
weapons or stolen Garou artifacts. Nearly all of them use


Chapter Two: Setting
23
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
silver in some fashion. A Garou must step lightly when
dealing with these hunters: one misstep may result in
ripping the Veil into tatters.
Despite the presence of many enemies in the World of
Darkness, it is the Garou themselves who are their own
worse enemies. This is in part because of the nature of
Garou Society.
Garou Society
Garou Society is complex, partially because the Garou
see themselves as the center of many connections. Aside
from the normal bonds of family, romance and friend-
ship, the Garou also have the bonds of pack, tribe and
sept. The Garou are both human and wolf, a synthesis of
the two. The wolf-nature is strong, especially in society.
Issues of dominance, station, territory and the pack are
strongly influenced by this lupine heritage.
The Pack
First among all their relations, the pack is more than
a family to a Garou. Anyone who is a member of a pack
will gladly risk her life to protect a packmate. A Garou
must stand by her pack in all things, even when she does
not completely agree with them. In fact, many Garou do
not totally get along with their packmates, although they
usually fall into accord when they are threatened from
outside the pack.
The pack is bound together by a mystical bond. Many
Garou instinctively know when a member of their pack
is in danger.  Over time, the bond strengthens. Packs
move as one, and they often perfectly integrate them-
selves in any action they do. A pack of Garou soon learns
to fight as if they were one, not many. In addition, a pack
totem is attracted to the pack and simultaneously adopts
and is adopted by that pack. This totem watches over the
pack and helps it discover its purpose. In these last days,
every pack has a quest that it must eventually solve. This
quest  dominates the thoughts and actions of the pack.
Many packs are formed out of a group of Garou who
undergo the Rite of Passage together. The Rite of Passage
is what marks a Garou’s passage from childhood to full
adult status. Sometimes, however, a pack will lose all its
members except for one or two, and Garou can adopt new
members into their pack with the Rite of the Pack, a
modified version of the Rite of Passage.
Packs adopt a name that is appropriate to their ethics and
beliefs and to the quest they believe Gaia has assigned them.
For example, a pack called the “Messengers of Unity” might
be interested in increasing cooperation between all Garou,
or a pack called the “Ghost Runners” may be a group of
spirit-warriors.
Tradition once held that packs were to be made up only
of other Garou in your Tribe, but that is no longer the case.
There are so few Garou that most packs are multitribal. The
most successful packs have most, if not all, of their auspices
represented. If a pack contains a metis, the pack will usually
defend the metis from discrimination and attacks when no
other Garou will. As Garou grow more powerful and higher
in rank and station, they tend to live apart from the rest of
their pack, even though they will be in touch constantly
with one another: they are family. For many Garou, a pack
is the only family left.
Not all Garou are in packs. Some are never accepted.
Sometimes all the packless Garou in a sept will get
together and form their own pack, but this is rare.
Usually, a Garou without a pack has some problem
associated with him. It is up to the sept to see that these
“lone wolves” either get accepted into a pack or at least
have something to bide their time. The Wyrm loves an
idle Garou, and many of these “lone wolves” get turned
into tools of corruption.
There are many packs in a sept. Sometimes, a pack will
come to hold all the key positions in a sept, and such septs
can be particularly strong.
The Sept
All around the world, hidden in secret places in the
wilderness or hiding in the parks of cities, high atop
massive skyscrapers or deep within crumbling buildings,
there are places of power that the Garou recognize as
sacred to Mother Gaia. These sacred places are called
caerns, for they originally were piles of stones dedicated
to the honored dead of the Garou. Now they are more
than that. A caern serves as a gathering point for all the
Garou in an area. If a moot is to be held, it will be held at
a caern. If a caern is held by the Garou, most likely it will
be held by a sept. A sept is a group of Garou who take and
hold a caern against the Wyrm. Each sept has traditional
offices that are usually filled by the most capable Garou
around— although in these days, it is difficult to find a
competent Garou for every position.
In addition to being a sacred place of Gaia, a caern is
also a means of transportation. Garou can step into a
Moon Bridge, a magical tunnel through the spirit world,
and can travel long distances between caerns in the
twinkling of an eye. It is possible for a Garou to travel all
the way around the world without ever relying on terres-
trial transportation.
Most of the powerful, ancient caerns were discovered
long ago. However, there is a way to utilize spirit magic
and open a brand new caern: through the Rite of Caern
Building. This rite is exceedingly difficult to successfully
accomplish, but the end result is another sacred strong-
hold for Mother Gaia, and so it is often attempted these
days— with an almost frantic frequency. Some old Ritu-
alists worry that the Rite of Caern Building is being
abused, and they seek to limit the number of new caerns
that are opened.
The sept is the main focus of all Garou society, for it is at
the sept that we see the Garou at their most social. Many
septs are ruled by a council of elders, which includes sept


The Apocalypse
24
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
members who hold positions of authority, as well as council-
ors from all the represented tribes in the area. Some septs are
ruled by a single tribe; some are governed by Garou from a
diverse collection of tribes. Justice tends to be a local affair
at a sept: there is usually not enough time to send messengers
to the nearest Silver Fang sept to ask questions as to whether
something is legal or not. The Master of the Challenge and
the Sept Leader must make a decision about what is to be
done about infractions against the Litany or about intersept
conflicts.
The Garou are ruled as a Nation by many powerful
tribal septs. Generally, the Silver Fangs hold the most
power, although the Shadow Lords are continually at
their heels. In effect, it is the Children of Gaia who are
the most instrumental in maintaining Garou peace and
keeping the Garou on an even course, going so far as to
balance some of the crazy ideas that the Silver Fangs
have. Many Ragabash and most of the Silent Striders
serve as messengers between caerns and heralds for the
great septs, and Philodox judges of respected rank follow
complicated Moon Bridge “circuits” to bring Garou jus-
tice to even the farthest reaches of the world.
Septs define protectorates, areas that are under the
direct protection and care of the Garou. They also define
hunting territory and settle disputes between packs and
individual Garou. They enforce punishment for judg-
ments against violators of the Litany, especially those
who threaten the Veil. They are the ultimate clearing-
house for Renown, marking the rise and fall of Glory,
Honor and Wisdom among the Garou of their sept.
In short, without a sept connection of some kind, a
Garou has no way to gain Renown, is in danger of
treading on another’s territory and has no legal presence
in the protectorate that the sept claims. Furthermore,
important rites like the Rite of Accord, the Rite of the
Pack, the Engling Rite and the Moot Rite are not gener-
ally available, as these virtually require the presence of
many Garou and the presence of a caern at the site. In
addition, many elder Garou are generally available at a
sept; it’s a good place to seek a tutor for a Gift or rite that
you’re interested in learning.
It is traditional to announce one’s presence in an area
through howls or direct presence. If the sept is threatened
or otherwise in danger, the Warder may ask you to join
the guardians of the sept, if only temporarily. A sept will
often refine its particular rules of etiquette. When a
Garou decides to join a sept, she asks the Warder of the
Sept to mention her name at the next Moot Rite. Usually
the Galliards will use this opportunity to tell what stories
they know about the Garou.
All in all, the sept is a complicated place, full of action,
intrigue, fellowship and danger. The Apocalypse focuses
on the sept as the stage on which many of your of your
Mind’s Eye Theatre stories will be played.


Chapter Two: Setting
25
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Sept Positions
Not every sept has all these positions. Indeed, these are the Last Times, and many septs find that they do
not have adequate personnel to fill all of the important roles. In this case, roles are either “doubled up” or
simply ignored, to the detriment of the Garou as a whole.
Sept Leader
This is the Garou who is ultimately in charge of the sept and its day-to-day running. Although the Sept
Leader is an elder, it is a position set above all the other elders, indeed, all the Garou in the sept. It is a position
of respect and honor, and the Sept Leader has the right to demand obedience of all who serve the sept.
Warder and Guardians
This is the Garou who is in charge of protecting the caern and keeping the sept safe. Under her are the
Guardians, “adren” Garou who aid the Warder with sept security. Conflicts sometimes arise between the
Warder and the Leader: the Warder has the authority to “close the caern” in times of danger. This power
supersedes even the Leader’s authority.
Master of the Rite
The Rite Master (or Mistress) has authority over all rites at a sept. Depending on the individual Rite
Master, this Garou may demand that all Garou ask permission of him before a rite is performed. The Master
of the Rite also has the power to demand that anyone learning a new rite must ask his permission first.
Generally, it is the Rite Master who decides who will take the various roles in the Moot Rite. Depending upon
who takes this position, it can be a position of great power and strength.
Master of the Challenge
The Master (or Mistress) of the Challenge is the elder who decides when and where a Challenge will take
place. She also judges the outcome of challenges and makes sure that challenges are conducted honorably.
You must apply to the Master or Mistress of the Challenge if you wish to challenge for Rank.
Gatekeeper
This is the elder or adren who is in charge of all the Moon Bridge travel to and from the sept. It is the
Gatekeeper who decides to whether someone may use a Moon Bridge. The Gatekeeper must be in constant
contact with the caern totem, who ultimately controls Moon Bridges and can disobey the Gatekeeper.
Keeper of the Land
This is the elder or adren who is in charge of keeping the land around the caern beautiful and clean. While
this may seem silly to some people, the Garou believe that spirits need clean and beautiful places to live and
that by maintaining a forest glen or rocky crag in its natural state, the Keeper of the Land can attract good
spirits to the caern. The Keeper can recruit other Garou to help in the duties of keeping the land, especially
if they uproot the Keeper’s favorite tree by accident or offend the Keeper in some way.
Den Mother or Father
This is the adren who is in charge of the cubs at a caern. He is responsible for the cubs’ initial training and
introduction into the lore of the Garou. He also protects the cubs during wartime and keeps them from getting
into dangerous mischief. This not exactly a coveted position, but one can earn much Wisdom and Honor
Renown by taking it.


The Apocalypse
The Apocalupse
The Apocalypse
26
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Three: Character
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
27
So you want to be a Garou? You’ve come to the right
place, lad.
Before you can play The Apocalypse, you must first
create a character. A character is, quite simply, the
person you portray each time you play The Apocalypse.
Your character can continue from one story to the next,
or you can play a different character each time. The
choice is up to you... with the approval of your Story-
teller, of course. Character creation shouldn’t be a
fast-paced, cut-and-dry process. You should spend time
cultivating ideas and nurturing thoughts so that you can
create an intriguing and vibrant persona. The more
creative effort you put into your character during his
creation, the more depth he’ll have when the story
begins.
This chapter contains all the information you need to
create your Garou character. The process is relatively
simple and proceeds in a step-by-step fashion. It begins
with a basic concept of who your character is and where
he comes from, and then takes you into aspects of the
game that define your character’s limitations and abili-
ties. Complete descriptions of all Traits and Attributes
can be found in Chapter Four.
Creating a Pack
Possibly the most important part of character creation
is creating the pack to which your character belongs.
This should be a group effort between the Storyteller and
the players. Both parties should work together to create
a concept and purpose for the pack.
The pack should help to compose the overall theme of
the characters. It should become their common ground,
the reason for them to work together. The pack, or packs,
should become the focus of the chronicle. As the needs
of the many sometimes outweigh the needs of the few, it
is important that the players agree on what type of pack
they would all like to play. However, it is also necessary
that the type of pack fit within the scope of the chronicle
that the Storyteller intends to run. The players decide a
great deal concerning their pack, but it is the Storyteller
who must guide them through this process.
A pack is often formed during the Rite of Passage of
inexperienced characters. In the past, these types of
packs would have all been in a single tribe. However,
many caerns are multitribal now; therefore, there are a
lot of multitribal packs going through Rites of Passage.
Other packs are formed out of a common purpose. For
Chapter Three:
Character
“I saw a werewolf drinkin’ a piña colada at Trader Vic’s...
and his hair was perfect!”
—Warren Zevon, “Werewolves of London”


The Apocalypse
The Apocalupse
The Apocalypse
28
Character Creation
Step One: Character Concept
Before you can begin to create a character, you must
develop a concept for who that character is. Once you
have a concept in mind, the rest of the character can be
built around that structure.
The initial development of the your character begins
with choosing your personality. This is defined by a
“Nature and De-
meanor” 
(listed
below), as well as the
character’s breed,
auspice and tribe.
Once these four as-
pects 
of 
your
character have been
chosen, you have a
framework on which
to build the rest of
your character. The
more care that is
taken in choosing
these aspects, the
more detailed and
complete your char-
acter will be.
Nature and
Demeanor
Your character’s
Nature and De-
meanor define the
basic tenets of your
personality. Nature
and Demeanor are,
quite simply, the dis-
position and image
of your character.
A character’s Na-
ture is her true inner
self, while her De-
meanor is the front
that she shows to
people— it is the
mask your character
shows to the world. It is not unheard of for a character to
have the same Nature and Demeanor; however, it is
unlikely. Few people are that honest with other people,
or even themselves.
characters, this common purpose can be nearly anything
they can agree upon. It could be anything from simply
surviving in a hostile environment to leading a campaign
against one of the Wyrm’s many tendrils. Again, the
Storyteller needs to guide the players during these stages
so that the purpose of this pack is something that fits
within the Storyteller’s intended theme for the Chronicle.
 In the Beginning...
You need to first decide upon your concept: who you are
at heart, what your heritage is and how you came into this
world. You can go
about this one of two
ways. If you want,
you can simply
choose your breed,
auspice and tribe and
then define your
background as a re-
sult of these choices.
The alternative is to
develop 
your
character’s back-
ground and history
first, and, by doing
so, get a general idea
as to which breed,
auspice and tribe
would best suit your
background. Gener-
ally, it is assumed that
you are a young
Garou who has re-
cently undergone
the Rite of Passage
and is now an assimi-
lated member of a
pack. Beyond that,
your character’s
background is left
open for you to de-
cide.
It is possible that
the Storyteller may
limit your charac-
ter creation choices
for the purposes of
the story she wishes
to tell. It is also possible that she will offer you choices not
listed here. Many times, a story will have certain roles
that need to be filled, and you may be asked to create a
character to fill one of those roles.


Chapter Three: Character
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
29
Nature and Demeanor (select one for
each):
• Alpha — You are a born leader.
• Autist — No one can understand the real you.
• Bravo — You’re a bully.
• Caregiver — You like to help others.
• Child — You never really matured emotionally.
• Competitor — You must be the winner.
• Confidant — You’re a good listener.
• Conniver — Why work for a living?
• Curmudgeon — You’re dry and cynical.
• Deviant — You don’t quite fit in.
• Director — You prefer to take control and orga-
nize things.
• Fanatic — You are obsessed with a cause.
• Gallant — You love attention.
• Hedonist — You live to experience life’s many
pleasures.
• Jester — You find humor in everything.
• Judge — You’re a rational arbitrator.
• Loner — You exist on the periphery.
• Maker — You wish to create things of lasting
value.
• Martyr — You continually make sacrifices for your
beliefs.
• Masochist — You enjoy suffering, especially your
own.
• Penitent — You wish to atone for who or what you
are.
• Predator — You are the quintessential hunter.
• Rebel — You are free-willed and free-thinking.
• Reluctant Garou — You long for a normal life.
• Show-Off — You get your self-worth from others.
• Survivor — You always pull through.
• Traditionalist — You are conservative and bound
to tradition.
• Visionary — You see beyond the boundaries of
the conventional.
Breed
The Garou are the Changing Race, torn between two
worlds: the world of wolves and the world of men.
However, the very nature of their existence prevents
them from truly having a home with either race. Indeed,
they are doubly cursed, for Garou cannot mate with
Garou, and thus, the Changing Breed must dwell within,
yet never truly be a part of, the worlds belonging to both
man and wolf.
It is against the oldest of laws for Garou to mate with
one another. The product of that union is always sterile
and usually malformed. Garou must continually mate (or
breed) with those outside their race. The Garou keep
track of the humans and wolves with whom they breed
and watch for signs of the change. The product of a Garou
mating with a human or wolf is not usually a Garou.
Typically, the child or pup is completely normal. The
genes of the Changing Breed are recessive, and very few
children breed true and pure enough to undergo their
First Change.
Once a Garou has been identified, however, he is
tracked down. Only then is he told what he really is.
After a young Garou completes his Rite of Passage, he is
fully accepted into the pack.
See also Breeds, pg. 37.
• Homid: You were raised as a human, by human
parents. You did not know that you were a werewolf until
you were nearly an adult and underwent the First Change.
(Nickname: Ape)
Initial Gnosis: 1
Breed Gifts: Persuasion, Smell of Man
• Metis: Both of your parents were Garou. You are
malformed and sterile as a result of their forbidden union.
You understand Garou culture more deeply than other
breeds do. (Nickname: Mule)
Initial Gnosis: 2
Breed Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Create Element
• Lupus: You were raised in the wilds as a wolf. You
did not become aware of your true nature until you were
nearly fully grown. (Nickname: Feral)
Initial Gnosis: 3
Breed Gifts: Heightened Senses, Catfeet
Character Creation
Process
• Step One: Character Concept
Choose  Nature and Demeanor, breed, aus-
pice and tribe.
• Step Two: Select Attributes
Prioritize your three Trait categories: Physi-
cal, Social and Mental (7/5/3).
• Step Three: Select Advantages
Choose Abilities (5), Gifts (one each from
breed, auspice and tribe), Backgrounds and
Renown (by auspice).
• Step Four: Finishing Touches
Record  Rage (determined by auspice), Gnosis
(determined by breed) and Willpower (deter-
mined by tribe)
Choose Negative Traits (if any)


The Apocalypse
The Apocalupse
The Apocalypse
30
Auspice
Your auspice is the phase of the moon under which
your character was born. This aspect is held in astrologi-
cal reverence by most Garou. It does more than
predetermine certain aspects of your personality— it also
helps to define your role in Garou society.
There are five auspices from which a character can
choose. Each has its own special strengths and weak-
nesses. Many ideas about auspices can be considered
superstitious, but there is a certain truth behind these
ideas as well.
Some truly exceptional Garou have rebelled against
their moon. They have renounced their born auspice in
favor of another one. These Garou are rare indeed, for
one loses everything when one chooses a new auspice.
Such a renunciate must start his education over again.
See also Auspices, pg. 39.
• Ragabash: New Moon — the Trickster
Initial Rage: 1
Auspice Gifts: Blur of the Milky Eye, Open Seal,
Scent of Running Water
Beginning Renown:  Three Renown Traits in any
combination
• Theurge: Crescent Moon — the Seer
Initial Rage: 2
Auspice Gifts: Mother’s Touch, Sense Wyrm, Spirit
Speech
Beginning Renown: Two Wisdom Traits, One Glory
or Honor Trait
 • Philodox: Half Moon— the Mediator
Initial Rage: 3
Auspice Gifts: Resist Pain, Scent of the True Form,
Truth of Gaia
Beginning Renown: Two Honor Traits, One Wisdom
Trait
• Galliard: Gibbous Moon — the Moon Dancer
Initial Rage: 4
Auspice Gifts: Beast Life, Call of the Wyld, Mindspeak
Beginning Renown:  One Glory Trait, Two Wisdom
or Honor Traits
• Ahroun: Full Moon— the Warrior
Initial Rage: 5
Auspice Gifts: Razor Claws, Inspiration, The Falling
Touch
Beginning Renown: Two Glory Traits, One Honor
Trait
Tribe
A tribe is a character’s family, of sorts. A character’s
tribe defines her lineage and heritage and says a great deal
about who and what she is. Each tribe has its own beliefs,
pursuits, strengths and weaknesses. There is a great
variety of tribes: thirteen in all. The tribe determines
much of your background and helps to define some basic
facts about your ancestry and heritage.
See also Tribes,  pg. 43.


Chapter Three: Character
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
31
• Black Furies: Composed almost entirely of
women, the Furies serve the Wyld.
Initial Willpower: 1
Backgrounds: No restrictions.
Tribe Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Heightened Senses,
Sense of the Prey
• Bone Gnawers: These Garou live on the city
streets. They’re usually well-informed.
Initial Willpower: 2
Backgrounds: Bone Gnawers may not buy Past
Life or Pure Breed.
Tribe Gifts: Odious Aroma, Scent of Sweet Honey
• Children of Gaia: The most moderate of all
tribes, the Children are mediators among the Garou
and defenders of humanity.
Initial Willpower: 3
Backgrounds: No restrictions
Tribe Gifts: Mother’s Touch, Resist Pain
• Fianna: Each member of this tribe is Irish in
descent and fiercely proud of her heritage.
Initial Willpower: 1
Backgrounds: No restrictions
Tribe Gifts: Persuasion, Resist Toxin
• Get of Fenris: Savage and bloodthirsty, the Get
are largely of Nordic descent.
Initial Willpower: 1
Backgrounds: No restrictions
Tribe Gifts: Razor Claws, Resist Pain
• Glass Walker: Living in skyscrapers and
throughout the cities, the Glass Walkers are dis-
trusted by many Garou.
Initial Willpower: 2
Backgrounds: Glass Walkers may not buy Past
Life or Pure Breed.
Tribe Gifts: Control Simple Machine, Persua-
sion
• Red Talons: The Red Talons are composed
entirely of lupus Garou and are almost always ex-
tremists.
Initial Willpower: 1
Backgrounds: Red Talons may not buy Influ-
ence.
Tribe Gifts: Beast Life, Scent of Running Water
• Shadow Lords: Very dominant and demand-
ing, the Shadow Lords covet the leadership positions
of the Silver Fangs.
Initial Willpower: 2
Backgrounds:  No restrictions
Tribe Gifts: Aura Confidence, Fatal Flaw
• Silent Striders: They live their lives travelling
and know many secrets of both the mortal and spirit
worlds.
Initial Willpower: 2
Background: Silent Striders may not buy Past
Life.
Tribe Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Speed of Thought
• Silver Fangs: The most noble of all tribes, the
Silver Fangs rule the Garou. They are inbred, how-
ever, and tainted with sickness.
Initial Willpower: 2
Background: Silver Fangs must spend at least
three of their Background Traits on Pure Breed.
Tribe Gifts: Lambent Flame, Sense Wyrm
• Stargazers: They search throughout the world
for enlightenment and truth.
Initial Willpower: 3
Background: Stargazers may not buy Allies, Fe-
tishes or Resources.
Tribe Gifts: Catfeet, Sense Wyrm
• Uktena:  Uktena are sly and mysterious, and
noted for their hidden knowledge. As a result, many
Garou distrust them.
Initial Willpower: 1
Background: No restrictions
Tribe Gifts: Blur of the Milky Eye, Sense Magic
• Wendigo: The only Native American Garou
tribe left. The Wendigo are still fiercely indepen-
dent and somewhat extreme in their beliefs.
Initial Willpower: 3
Background: No restrictions.
Tribe Gifts: Call the Breeze, Camouflage


The Apocalypse
The Apocalupse
The Apocalypse
32
Step Two: Attributes
Attributes define the basics of a character’s natural
abilities. They include the strengths your character was
born with and the talents that come naturally to you. Are
you brawny, relentless or quick? Are you creative, me-
thodical or contemplative?
The first step is to prioritize your attributes. Are you
more physically, socially or mentally oriented? You must
choose which of these categories is your strongest suit.
These choices may well be influenced by your auspice.
For example, it would probably be to a Theurge’s advan-
tage to be more mentally gifted than physically talented—
it would not be unheard of for a Theurge to excel in
Physical Traits, but it would be unlikely.
Attribute Categories:
• Physical Attributes describe what you are capable
of doing with your body. They encompass your power,
quickness and endurance.
• Social Attributes describe your charisma and ap-
pearance, and they define how well you can influence
and manipulate others.
• Mental Attributes define your character’s mental
capacity. They include things such as your characters
awareness of her surroundings and her resolve and con-
centration.
Your attribute categories must be prioritized. Your
strongest category is primary, your next-strongest cat-
egory is secondary and your weakest is tertiary. Once
you’ve chosen your priorities, you get to choose your
actual Traits. You may choose seven Traits for your
primary attributes, five Traits for your secondary at-
tributes, and three Traits for your tertiary attributes. You
are allowed to take the same Traits more than once to
illustrate that you’re particularly gifted in a certain area
(such as a character who is Quick, Quick and Quick.)
Step Three: Advantages
Advantages are Traits that help separate one charac-
ter from another. They allow a player to take actions that
would otherwise be impossible. There are four categories
of advantages: Abilities, Gifts, Backgrounds and Re-
nown.
Choosing Abilities
Abilities represent the skills you’ve developed and the
training you’ve had up until this point in your life. They
summarize the ordinary things you can do. Many abilities
allow you to perform specific tasks that are only possible
through training, while others enhance your perfor-
mance of everyday tasks and functions.
You may choose five Abilities from the list below. You
can take the same Ability more than once to illustrate a
higher degree of skill with that particular action.
Abilities:
Complete descriptions of the Abilities can be found in
Chapter Four, pg. 81.
• Animal Ken— You have an affinity with animals
and can train them.
• Bureaucracy— You can work within the govern-
mental system to get things done. (This cannot be taken by
lupus characters.)
• Computer—You can use a computer for informa-
tion or infiltration. (This cannot be taken by lupus
characters.)
• Drive— You can operate a car or motorcycle. (This
cannot be taken by  lupus characters.)
• Enigmas— You understand more of the mystical
nature of the Garou and more about the universe itself.
• Finance— You can manage money and even have
some limited resources to draw upon. (This cannot be
taken by lupus characters.)
• Firearms— You can efficiently use and maintain a
pistol or firearm. (This cannot be taken by lupus characters.)
• Investigation— You are a skilled detective, able to
assimilate facts and information.
• Law— You understand and can manipulate the
legal system. Alternatively, this could be an understand-
ing of “wolf politics” for a lupus character or Garou Law
for a metis character.
• Leadership— You are experienced at leading oth-
ers.
• Linguistics— You are fluent in more than one
language, and you might be able to understand and
translate an ancient language as well.
• Medicine— You can heal others.
Attribute Traits:
Physical Traits: Athletic, Brawny, Brutal,
Dexterous, Enduring, Energetic, Feral, Fero-
cious, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick, Resilient,
Robust, Rugged, Stalwart, Steady, Tenacious,
Tireless, Tough, Vigorous, Wiry
Social Traits: Alluring, Beguiling, Charismatic,
Charming, Commanding, Compassionate, Dig-
nified, Diplomatic, Elegant, Eloquent, Empathetic,
Expressive, Friendly, Genial, Gorgeous, Ingratiat-
ing, Magnetic, Majestic, Persuasive, Seductive,
Witty
Mental Traits: Alert, Attentive, Calm,
Clever, Creative, Cunning, Dedicated, Deter-
mined, Discerning, Disciplined, Insightful,
Instinctive, Intuitive, Knowledgeable, Obser-
vant, Patient, Rational, Reflective, Shrewd,
Vigilant, Wily, Wise


Chapter Three: Character
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
33
Backgrounds
Each character has background details that make her unique.
Advantages like contact with Past Lives or societal Influence
add depth and background to a character. Your character will be
able to select five Background Traits. Certain tribes will be
excluded from selecting certain Background Traits, and certain
tribes will be forced to
take certain Background
Traits. Players can select
the same Background
more than once to illus-
trate a stronger level of
that Background.
A complete descrip-
tion of Background
Traits can be found on
pg. 110 in Chapter
Four.
• Purebreed— You
have an exceptional
heritage.
• Past Life— You
are in touch with and
can draw upon ances-
tral knowledge.
• Fetish— You
have a mystical Garou
item.
• Rites— You pos-
ses an understanding
of Garou rites.
• Influence— You
have some sway and
control over the world
of humans.
• Totem— You (or
your pack) has a totem
spirit that watches over
you.
Renown
A Garou’s renown defines his Rank and, therefore, his
station within werewolf society. All characters begin
with the Rank of “fostern”. Fostern are Garou who have
undergone their Rite of Passage and proven themselves
to their fellow Garou. They have become accepted into
the pack and are treated as adults.
Renown is divided into three categories: Wisdom,
Glory and Honor. A beginning player chooses Renown
Traits for his character just as he would choose Traits for
any other attribute. However, the type of Renown Traits
he can choose depends on his character’s auspice.
See Auspice, above, for Beginning Renown. Also, see
pg. 125.
• Occult— You know many ancient rites and myster-
ies.
• Performance— You can act, dance, sing or play an
instrument.
• Primal Urge— You are in touch with the beast and
wolf within you.
• Repair— You can fix most things. (This cannot be
taken by lupus charac-
ters.)
• Science— You
understand technol-
ogy, 
physics 
or
another 
science.
(This cannot be taken
by lupus characters.)
• Scrounge— You
can find what you
need to survive.
• Security— You
can set and remove
alarms, locks and se-
curity systems.(This
cannot be taken by
lupus characters.)
• Streetwise—
You can survive on
the city streets and
know 
your 
way
around the under-
world. (This cannot be
taken by lupus charac-
ters.)
• Subterfuge—
You can manipulate
others.
• Survival— You
can survive on your
own in the wilder-
ness.
Choosing
Gifts
See Breed, Auspice and Tribe, above, for Beginning
Gifts; choose one from each list (for a total of three
Gifts). See also Gifts, pg. 84.
Note that the listed Gifts are simply the “Basic” ones.
There are more powerful “Intermediate” and “Advanced”
Gifts, although these are only possessed by more powerful
Garou.


The Apocalypse
The Apocalupse
The Apocalypse
34
Rage, Gnosis and Willpower
These are determined as listed above: a character’s
auspice determines her starting Rage Traits, her breed
determines her starting Gnosis Traits and her tribe deter-
mines her starting Willpower. See also Rage  pg. 112;
Gnosis  pg. 113; Willpower  pg. 111.
Negative Traits
The number of Traits and Abilities your character has
can be increased by selecting Negative Traits. You can
select a Negative Trait in any of your three attribute
categories. In exchange, you’ll be able to purchase an
additional (positive) Attribute Trait or an Ability. You
can take up to three Negative Traits.
Physical Negative Traits: Clumsy, Cowardly, De-
crepit, Delicate, Docile, Flabby, Lame, Lethargic, Puny,
Sickly.
Social Negative Traits: Callous, Condescending, Dull,
Naive, Obnoxious, Paranoid, Repugnant, Shy, Tactless,
Untrustworthy.
Mental Negative Traits: Forgetful, Gullible, Igno-
rant, Impatient, Oblivious, Predictable, Shortsighted,
Submissive, Witless.
Renown Traits
Wisdom: Crafty, Inspired, Inventive, Prag-
matic, Profound, Respected, Revered, Sacred,
Scholarly, Spiritual, Venerable, Wise.
Glory: Bold, Brash, Brave, Courageous, Dar-
ing, Exalted, Feared, Fearless, Glorious,
Imposing, Impressive, Spirited, Superb.
Honor: Admirable, Commendable, Dutiful,
Eminent, Esteemed, Fair, Honorable, Impar-
tial, Just, Noble, Objective, Proud, Reputable,
Trusted, Virtuous.
Final Touches
Your character should now have a basic form, but it
might not be exactly what you envisioned. In the final
stages, you have the opportunity to improve certain
statistics and add more Abilities or Backgrounds. You’ll
also need to add the personal details and develop more of
the character’s personal history.


Chapter Three: Character
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
35
With one Negative Trait, you can:
• Take one additional Trait.
• Take an additional Ability.
• Take an additional Background.
• Take an additional Rage Trait.
• Take an additional Gnosis Trait.
With three Negative Traits, you can:
• Take an additional Gift from your Breed, Auspice or
Tribe.
• Take an Additional Willpower Trait.
Fleshing It Out
• Background— Now you need to fill in all the little
details, such as where your character came from and what
he does on a regular basis.
What was your childhood like? Did you attend any sort
of formal schooling after the Change? If you are a lupus,
how well did you adjust to what you are, and how do you
perceive the world of men?
You should also give some reasons for your character to
be a part of the pack. Always consult your Narrator on
this information. She might already be planning a story
about how the group first got together.
• Motivations— What is it you wish to do? Is there
more to your life as a Garou than merely fighting the
Wyrm? If not, should there be?
The Garou see the world they know of drawing to a
close, but that doesn’t absolve them of the responsibili-
ties of their lives. Many have goals inside and outside
their pack. Most Garou have their own views of the world
and opinions on how to affect it. Many are eager to earn
the respect of their fellows.
• Appearance— What do you look like when you’re
in Homid form? How do you dress? How do you carry
yourself?
Many of these details can be gleaned from your back-
ground, but even more should be added here. You
ultimately should select an appearance (and costume)
that reflects and represents every aspect of your charac-
ter. Obviously, this is not intended to be taken literally,
but a Bone Gnawer should definitely have a different
wardrobe selection than a Glass Walker.
• Equipment— If you’ve already selected a Fetish,
then that’s something you automatically have. However,
your character might have other odds and ends that she
carries with her. Any selections must be approved by the
Storyteller. Don’t be surprised if you can’t have every-
thing you want. Some of it might not be appropriate to
the nature or scope of the story. Your Storyteller has the
final say on what you can and cannot have.
• Quirks— By giving your character quirks, you can
add even more depth and interest to her personality.
Quirks are personal details that make an individual
unique. A quirk could be anything: a habit of laughing
when under stress, an affinity for animals, an aversion to
apologizing... anything that adds an extra splash of life to
your character.


The Apocalypse
36
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Four: Characteristics
37
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Breeds
A Garou’s breed determines part of his basic personal-
ity and often colors his perceptions and beliefs about the
world around him. There are three breeds: homid, metis
and lupus. The breed of a Garou is determined by the
breed of the Garou’s mother. Breed also determines a
character’s natural form and the number of beginning
Gnosis Traits the character has.
Homid
The most common of all the breeds, homid Garou are
born to a human or homid mother and suffer from her
lack of connection to Gaia. Because humanity has sepa-
rated itself from the Wyld and has become focused on the
trials and tribulations of civilization, members of the
homid breed have become disassociated from their wild
inner selves.
This is why so many homids are lost cubs, Lunatics
who do not know their true heritage. Many times the Kin
Fetch (see “Baptism by Fire”) for a homid will be lost
when she is young, and a homid child will have her First
Change in a strange place without Garou aid.
Still, it might be argued that the homids are the most
hardy of the breeds, able to adapt to almost any environ-
mental threat. Many Garou believe that the homids will
be the last breed to fall before the end of the Apocalypse.
Natural Form: Homid
Beginning Gifts: Persuasion, Smell of Man.
Beginning Gnosis: Homids begin with only one Gnosis
Trait.
Lupus
This is a Garou whose mother is either a wolf or a lupus
Garou. This breed is the least represented among the
Garou population. It is a sad state of affairs when even the
metis, who are considered abominations among some of
the Garou, are more populous than the lupus. This is, in
part, because of the nearly genocidal killing of wolves
throughout North America and Europe.
Wolves once had the largest natural range of any
terrestrial mammal except man. Currently, the only
significant populations of wolves in North America are
in Canada, Alaska and northern Minnesota.
Part of playing a lupus character is understanding her
lupine nature. You must keep in mind some facts about
“Remember your Marcus Aurelius, Clarisse: of any thing,
ask yourself, ‘What does it do?’”
—Hannibal Lector, “Silence of the Lambs”
Chapter Four:
Characteristics


The Apocalypse
38
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
also mark possessions and territories with their scent
glands, which, in Crinos form, are located on the wrists
and the neck.
The dominant members of a lupus pack are the alpha
male and alpha female. In a lupus pack, only the alpha
pair breeds with wolves, and this pair also suppresses
breeding in all other pack members. However, all pack
members will help
care for pups and feed
them as well. Unlike
homid and metis
Garou, many lupus
packs also have Kin-
folk 
wolves 
as
members.
Lupus Garou re-
spect other Garou
more when they take
Lupus form to com-
municate with them.
They generally have
a hard time consider-
ing possible actions in
terms of future results
or as a result of past
actions. They live in
the present for the
most part, and often
take the most logical,
most common-sense
course of action rather
than involving them-
selves in complicated
schemes. They do not
often make elaborate
plans— instinct usu-
ally guides them.
They believe that
Gaia watches over
them, and that she
will provide for them.
They are perhaps the
most spiritual of the breeds. They are known to respect
Theurges (of any breed) more than the other auspices,
and in the Umbra, they show respect for all spirits
encountered.
Natural Form: Lupus
Beginning Gifts: Heightened Senses, Catfeet
Beginning Gnosis: Lupus Garou begin with three
Gnosis Traits.
Restrictions: A lupus cannot have certain Back-
grounds or Abilities.
wolves that make lupus Garou different from homid or
metis Garou.
Wolves are nocturnal or crepuscular (meaning that
they come out at night or twilight), although diurnal
activity, especially during cool weather and in winter, is
not uncommon. Lupus Garou are often “night creatures”
and tend to be lazy and sleepy during the day. They are
almost entirely carnivo-
rous. Some lupus Garou
have adapted enough to
eat foods other than
meat, but they usually
like their meat bloody,
warm and freshly killed.
Lupus do not under-
stand some human
concepts at first. The
concept of time is diffi-
cult, as is using money
and operating technol-
ogy (the lupus refer to it
as “weavertech”). Hu-
man laws, bureaucracy
and computers are to-
tally alien to them.
Also, lupus do not
communicate like hu-
mans do. In fact, they
have to learn human
tongues by painstakingly
taking Homid form and
trying to form strange
words. They are used to
howling, posturing and
marking territory with
their scent glands to get
their point across.
Lupus characters
howl during mating, dur-
ing courtship, as a
warning, as part of wor-
shipping the moon and
in celebration. In addition to howling, wolves also bark,
growl and whine. The bark is associated with surprise and
warning. Growling occurs during challenges and is asso-
ciated with threatening others or asserting one’s rights.
Whines are associated with greetings, hungry cubs,
playtime and other signs of anxiety, curiosity or inquiry.
These noises are intimate messages that lupus Garou
make to other wolves and to each other.
Lupus will posture to show dominance: the most
common pose for this is placing one’s paw on another
lupus as that lupus rolls over to accept dominance. Lupus


Chapter Four: Characteristics
39
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Metis
When a Garou mates with another Garou, the result is a
metis. This mating is proscribed by the Litany and is usually
considered a perversion among the Garou. In these last days,
when so many Garou are dying and not many are born
among the lupus or homids, it is very tempting for some of
the remaining Garou to
consider producing more
Garou this way. Still, the
fact that they are born
disfigured is proof enough
to most Garou that metis
are somehow tainted by
the Wyrm from birth.
Despite the stigma,
metis do usually grow up
fully aware of their Garou
heritage and have the un-
mistakable proof that
they are Garou from the
day they are born. This is
a powerful thing, largely
because they do not have
to go through the trau-
matic First Change as
homids or the lupus do,
and they are often taught
Beginning Gifts before
they even show signs of
changing. They some-
times take their first trip
in the Umbra as chil-
dren, as it is a simple thing
for them to step sideways
even before they first
learn to walk. It is a good
thing that a metis has
Garou parents— not
many human parents
could handle a toddler
whose natural form is a
growling Crinos. Garou
mothers usually assume Crinos form in order to give birth to
metis, but the births are always difficult and dangerous.
Metis are considered to be the cursed of Gaia because
of the sin that caused their birth. They are, by nature,
infertile, and they each have at least one disfigurement.
The disfigurement is always detrimental (see Metis Dis-
figurements, listed on the following page).
Natural Form: Crinos. Unlike homid or lupus Garou,
metis always regenerate their damage in Crinos. They are
truly an amalgam of human and wolf, and there is no true
“natural” form for them to assume.
Beginning Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Create Element
Beginning Gnosis: two Gnosis Traits
Auspice:
The Touch of Luna
It is often difficult to explain the nature of auspice to
those who don’t have Garou blood coursing through
their veins. Some, in
their ignorance, as-
sume it to be some
form of petty astrol-
ogy. Others with
some understanding
of such things dislike
the sense of destiny
this idea suggests.
Many young Garou
who are disdainful of
anything that hints
at constraint make
similar false assump-
tions. One’s auspice
is not a predestined
and inflexible path a
Garou is forced to
follow. Instead, it is a
silvery beacon that
serves to illuminate
her path through life.
The influence of an
auspice comes as
much from within as
it does from without.
Auspice 
also
serves as an impor-
tant focus of Garou
social life. The Garou
as a whole lack the
vast diversity of po-
tential interaction
that their human
counterparts enjoy.
Therefore, it is not
uncommon for Garou of the same auspice to gather
together for fellowship. These meetings are informal and
not at all closed to other Garou. The “Society” section
provides more details on these meetings.
In addition to the distinctions of the phases of the
moon, many werewolves notice a difference between a
Garou with a waxing auspice and one with a waning
auspice. When waxing, the moon provides a more posi-
tive, aggressive and direct auspice. When waning, the
moon causes a more negative, introspective and indirect
auspice. Thus, a waxing Galliard may be a great public
performer, while a waning Galliard may only create songs
for herself and dwell on things in quiet places.


The Apocalypse
40
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Metis Disfigurements
You must choose a disfigurement from the list below or make up your own and have it approved by your
Narrator. All mandatory Negative Traits do not count towards the normal bonuses gained by Negative Traits
(you cannot gain extra Traits simply by choosing to play a metis).
Hunchback:
You cannot take any of the following Social Traits: Beguiling, Charming, Elegant, Friendly, Gorgeous,
Magnetic, Persuasive or Seductive. You must take the Negative Trait: Repugnant.
Malformed Limb:
You cannot take the Physical Trait: Dexterous, and you must take the Negative Trait: Lame.
Widely Spaced Eyes:
You are automatically recieve a one Trait penalty when bidding for ranged attacks, and you must take the
Negative Social Trait: Bestial.
Musk:
You smell. Most humans attribute this to bad perfume, but it sets animals on edge, and it causes lupus Garou
to avoid you. You are easily tracked by your smell, and you must take the Negative Social Trait: Obnoxious.
Madness:
You are slightly mad. Your mental “wiring” is a little bit off. When in a stressful situation, you must spend
a Willpower Trait or have a temporary Derangement imposed on you by a Narrator. This can cause many
Garou to distrust you.
Cleft Lip:
You have a cleft lip— at least you can snarl. You must take the Negative Social Trait: Repugnant, but it
only applies to homid or human opponents. You should roleplay this disability: it’s hard for others to
understand you when you get excited.
Bad Hearing:
You must take the Negative Mental Trait: Oblivious, and you must roleplay your disability. This can
actually be useful: you can encourage other Garou to repeat themselves. Of course, many Garou have frenzied
for simpler reasons.
Hairless:
You have no hair on your body. This is not necessarily a disadvantage in homid form, although you will
probably attract some notice. In any other form, however, other Garou will shun you. You must take the
Negative Social Trait: Repugnant, which applies to Garou only. When it is cold, you must also take the
Negative Trait: Delicate, which applies to nearly every situation.
Lack of Claws:
You have no claws, and you do not do aggravated damage, ever. The only way you can fight efficiently in
wolf form is if you create some kind of fetish that gives you weaponry in that form. Furthermore, you need twice
the amount of Glory if Glory is a requirement for you to advance in Rank. It’s a wonder that you weren’t
euthanized at birth.
Human Face:
You retain a human face in all your forms. This is disgusting to most Garou— take the Negative Social
Trait: Bestial (only other Garou can use this Trait against you, however). You also do not gain any Trait
bonuses for perception while in Lupus form.
It should be noticed that the brighter, more clearly-
seen planets (Mars, Venus, Mercury and Jupiter) are
sometimes also noted in the night sky on the day a Garou
is born, as well as whether those planets are rising or
falling in the sky. Saturn is ignored, as it is regarded as the
“Star of the Wyrm.”
Ragabash
Nickname: Trickster, No-Moon
The penultimate outsiders, Ragabash are the breakers
of boundaries, the outcasts, the rogues, the pranksters
and the scapegoats of Garou society. They are always
playing the fool, breaking rules and making new paths
and new traditions.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
41
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Still, it is not a coincidence that many of the Theurges of
a sept will tend to gather together in Medicine Circles,
for only a true Theurge can truly understand another.
Beginning Rage: Theurges begin with two Rage Traits.
Quote: “Quiet! Do you hear the wind? I’ve listened to
its sighs every morning and every evening for the space
of a moon. Do you know why? I await my messenger, who
has been sent into the Deep Umbra to search out other
realms and other places. What do you think it will say
when it returns? Will it still speak my language? Will it
hold secrets of a new race of people? Will it tell the tale
of another Gaia-spirit out there in the void? Or will it
never return, like a stone dropped in a bottomless well?
Quiet! Listen! You may hear something...”
Philodox: Half-Moon
Nickname: Bard
Much about the Garou is a matter of balance: balance
between wolf and man, spirit and flesh, and creation and
destruction. Born when Luna’s face sits on the threshold
between light and darkness, Philodox are the physical
incarnation of this balance. Among the Garou, they are
known for their unbiased outlook. Indeed, the words of a
Philodox are often taken to heart by the most radical of
Garou factions. They value this honor and strive to
maintain their image as fair and impartial judges in the
eyes of other Garou. The Philodox who does otherwise
may find himself ostracized by other Half-Moons.
A Philodox character is often the mediator and peace-
maker in his pack. As she grows older and wiser, she
should expect to be called upon as a judge and arbitrator
for a wide variety of matters. And although a Philodox
can not help but see the world in terms of balance, she is
loathe to express her views unless others ask her. This
reluctance to become involved often makes her seem
unconcerned to other auspices. Sometimes, by “playing
the devil’s advocate,” she actually hinders necessary
split-second decisions. Such is her nature, however, and
few would argue her inestimable value to the already
fractious Garou.
Beginning Gifts: Resist Pain, Scent of the True Form,
Truth of Gaia
Stereo Type: The Philodox are often seen as media-
tors. Of all the Garou, they are typically perceived as
being the most honorable.
Initial Rage: A Philodox begins with three Rage
Traits.
Quote: “You do not know of what you speak. Do you
both truly mean the curses that you spit at each other?
Would the two of you truly tear each other apart? Would
you slay your own brother while the Wyrm coils and
readies to strike at us from the darkness? Have you no wits
about you? Now is the time for unity, not strife— the
Apocalypse is nearly upon us!”
Some Ragabash rebel just because it is their nature,
while others do it out of a reasoned and essential need to
question authority. Sometimes a No-Moon can go from
a cynical hardcase to a trusting idiot in seconds. They are
often adept at following their noses, listening to their
instincts and trusting in their luck.
They’re often found in the midst of trouble, and when
they’re caught, they usually claim innocence. Whether a
Ragabash is responsible or reckless, it’s quite likely that
he can get himself out of just about any situation he
uncovers.
The Coyote Totem has been known to consort with
Ragabash, and they are fond of playing jokes not just on
Garou, but also on mages, vampires and especially faeries.
Ragabash are not tied to tradition: indeed, they are
expected to break it. They usually follow rules only when
it suits them.
Beginning Gifts: Blur of the Milky Eye, Open Seal,
Scent of Running Water.
Stereotype: A Ragabash is regarded as a shifty, un-
trustworthy prankster who must be watched every minute.
In reality, however, only Garou who lack a sense of
humor have something to fear.
Beginning Rage: A Ragabash begins with one Rage
Trait.
Quote: “Just because the Moon is dark doesn’t mean
that we walk always in darkness. We hold within us the
inner light of Gaia, and we find our way out of the
darkness to new paths that were never before known. We
are the pathfinders, the scouts for our Garou brothers.
We will always be on the outside, but we are an intrinsic
part of the Garou Nation.”
Theurge
Nicknames: Seer, Shaman
Theurges explore the paths of the spirit and are most
familiar with the spirit world. They serve as healers,
prophets, warders, exorcists, diviners, spiritual counse-
lors, purifiers, artificers and summoners. They use spirits
to accomplish their magic, and many Theurges develop
rites of their own to use when they reach elder status.
Because they are allied with the spirit world, they
often have conversations with people who aren’t there
and develop complicated superstitions. Some of these
superstitions are geasa laid on them by spirits. (See
“Geasa” in the section on “Spirits” and as part of the Rite
of Spirit Summoning.)
Beginning Gifts: Mother’s Touch, Sense Wyrm, Spirit
Speech
Stereotype: Although Theurges are powerful in the
spirit world, the more physically-oriented Garou often
see Theurges as strange, unearthly and weak in combat.
This is not the case: many Theurges learn the martial arts
in order to potentially intimidate or do battle with spirits.


The Apocalypse
42
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Initial Rage: Galliards begin with four Rage Traits.
Quote: “Your traditions and customs confine you like
chains. Who are you to question passion? That is the only
truth before Gaia. I will be true to myself as I live my life.”
Ahroun: Full Moon
Nickname: Spirit
Warrior
The Ahroun are the
undisputed battlelords
of the Garou. Born
under the power and
majesty of the full
moon, they are the first
in battle and the last
to retreat. Even as
pups, those born un-
der the full moon are
taught the martial
ways and take great
pride in their warrior
status. The impending
Apocalypse requires
strong warriors, both
in mind and body, to
assault the forces of the
Wyrm, 
and 
the
Ahroun of all Thirteen
Tribes are prepared to
face that challenge.
Most prefer death to
defeat, and many have
lived and died by this
ideal.Unlike other aus-
pices in the Thirteen
Tribes, the Ahroun do
not segregate them-
selves because of their
tribes. They tend to be
a close-knit family de-
spite tribal politics. It
is a familiar sight to see
Ahroun from all tribes congregate to share tales of glory
while those of other auspices remain detached from their
peers. Other Garou could learn a lesson from their example.
Beginning Gifts: Razor Claws, Inspiration, The Fall-
ing Touch
Stereotype: The Ahroun are seen as rugged individu-
als and leaders (at least in times of war). They are
perceived as being socially inept, often showing too
much of their wolf-like nature when in public.
Initial Rage: Ahroun begin with five Rage Traits.
Galliard: Gibbous Moon
Nickname: Moon Dancer
The Garou born under this phase of the moon are imbued
with the spark of creation. The greatest poems, songs and
tales of the Garou have sprung from their fertile minds.
Their thoughts are like quicksilver, racing and fluid, dashing
headlong into places
where few other Garou
give a passing glance.
The Moon Dancers
lead the sept in its howls
during the time of the
moot. Their energetic
and inspirational per-
formances infect the
whole sept, filling them
with a sense of belong-
ing and tradition. This
is an important role in a
time when so many
Garou are losing their
sense of direction and
purpose.
The Galliard char-
acter is a creative and
intuitive spirit. He will
be the member of her
pack most likely to
come up with an origi-
nal or previously
unconsidered solution
to a problem. This
Trait, combined with
the ability to quickly
and powerfully com-
municate his unique
views to others, often
allows a Galliard to
inspire his fellows to
great accomplish-
ments. However, his
continual deviance
from the norm threatens some conservative Garou. This
lack of restraint is deeply ingrained into the Galliard
auspice. A Galliard will sometimes have to force himself
to stick with time-honored or direct solutions, even
when they are the best options.
Beginning Gifts: Beast Life, Call of the Wyld,
Mindspeak
Stereotype: The Galliard are seen as having little
sense of restraint and no sense of self-control. Instead,
they possess a great capacity to understand others and
guide them.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
43
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Quote: “Death holds no power over me, for I do not
fear it. I will gladly meet her vicious onslaught and rend
her very essence with my teeth and claws before she
brings me down. These are the final days, the Apoca-
lypse. My death is already accounted for in the grand
scheme of things— it is only a question of when I will die
in battle.”
Tribes
There are 13 Garou tribes available to player charac-
ters. These tribes organize the remaining Garou who
fight against the Wyrm. Originally, these tribes were
more regional, with each tribe controlling and living in
a certain portion of the world. However, in the recent
centuries, as human civilization and transportation in
general became more widespread and efficient, geogra-
phy has mattered less and less. The Garou, nonetheless,
still take pride in their origins. A Garou’s tribe is her
family and heritage.


The Apocalypse
44
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Black Furies
The Black Furies exist as a counterpoint to the some-
what male-dominated Garou society. Ever since their
ancestors left the rest of the Garou and went to the
farthest places to establish a place where they could be
alone, Black Furies have been separate and strong. They
believe that their Goddess, Artemis (Luna in another
guise), wants them to remain apart from men. The only
men in their tribe are those who are of the infertile metis
breed.
They believe that their tribe has remained strong and
pure with their own heritage throughout the centuries,
and they can trace their heritage all the way back to
prehistoric times.
Among the Furies, there are many reactions to the
current Apocalypse. Some choose to save everyone they
can, some choose to defend only women, some search
through the world looking for lost sacred places and
missing artifacts, and some choose to worship Artemis as
their Goddess. Despite these disparate goals, they are all
united under one tribe, and when they are unified under
a common cause and bring their might to bear, they are
a powerful foe.
Totem: Pegasus
Initial Willpower: One Trait
Tribe Advantage: Sisterhood
A Black Fury can share Willpower Traits with any
other Fury or any other female member of her pack.
Tribe Drawback: Protectors of the Daughter
The totem of the Black Furies will provide them with
a spiritual warning whenever a woman in the area is in
danger. This warning (or call) can come at any time and
will usually supersede the Black Furies’ other priorities. A
Black Fury can ignore this call if she expends one Will-
power Trait. However, she may lose Honor or Glory
because of it.
Backgrounds: Black Furies may select any Background.
Beginning Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Heightened Senses,
Sense of the Prey
Wolf Form: Black Furies tend to be dark, with a glossy
coat and white or silver streaks. A few of them have
natural double-headed ax tattoos or birthmarks.
Organization: The Black Furies are run by two major
bodies, called Calyxes. The Outer Calyx is made up of 13
ranked Black Furies from all over the world, chosen by
lot. The Inner Calyx consists of five Furies chosen di-
rectly by Artemis herself. The Outer Calyx coordinates
Fury actions all over the world and provides regional
administrators. The Inner Calyx’s five positions equate
to the five auspices and act as a council, deciding policy,
interpreting tradition and creating laws for the tribe.
Those who Artemis calls for the Inner Calyx are of all
ranks and abilities, not just the elders of the tribe, and
this has caused some discord among the Outer Calyx,
who believe that they should be chosen for service
eventually.
Habitat: Wherever there is wilderness left in the
world, the Black Furies will be there. Wherever there are
ancient artifacts that might fall into the talons of the
Wyrm, the Black Furies will be ready to fight. Wherever
there are women in danger, the Black Furies will come to
their aid.
Protectorate: Black Furies see themselves as protec-
tors of the Wyld, a force that embodies the source of
mystery and the force of Nature. They tend the wild
places that are left in the World of Darkness, and they
have charged themselves with the recovery, protection
and conservation of ancient, semi-mythical places and
things. They see themselves as protectors of women and
unspoiled places, and they will go to great lengths to
uphold their duty to them.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
45
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Outlook: The Black Furies ally themselves with the
Children of Gaia and the Silent Striders, as they usually
work together well. They respect the Stargazers, the
Wendigo and the Red Talons, but can’t seem to get along
with them. They dislike the Fianna, the Glass Walkers
and the Bone Gnawers, but they will not usually raise
talons against them. They dearly hate the Get of Fenris
and the Shadow Lords, and they sorely resent the posi-
tion of dominance the Silver Fangs hold, although they
follow the wisdom of their leaders and generally only
attack these politically powerful Garou when they have
permission. You can expect Black Furies to give most
men “attitude.” The stereotype of all Black Furies as
hard-cases is misleading... even if it does contain a kernel
of truth.
Quote: “Follow you? Why? You show as much com-
mon sense as a half-trained cub. I wouldn’t follow you
into a paper bag, because I’m sure you couldn’t find your
way out of one!”


The Apocalypse
46
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Backgrounds: Bone Gnawers may not take the Pure
Breed Background or the Finance Influence.
Beginning Gifts: Scent of Sweet Honey, Odious Aroma
Wolf Form: Bone Gnawers look much like large street
dogs. They often pass for them in open view of humans,
although this has its own dangers: many Bone Gnawers
have been caught by Animal Control units and taken to
city pounds, where they orchestrate stealthy and inge-
nious breakouts. Their coats have reddish-brown or gray
fur, and they’re usually smaller than other Garou in that
form.
Organization: Bone Gnawers live together in family
groups that are usually the result of choice, not breeding.
Because they are generally despised by the rest of the
Garou for their apparent breeding (they’re mongrels)
and because of their smell, they tend to flock together
and even form septs all their own. They are ruled by their
Mothers and Fathers, respected elders who gain Renown
among them by providing food (Honor), collecting in-
teresting things (Glory) and staying alive (Wisdom).
Because of their status and the places they live, the
Bone Gnawers often have positive relations with
Nosferatu vampires. Indeed, it is believed by some that
they often work together to achieve common goals,
although the details of this are carefully guarded secrets.
Habitat: Bone Gnawers live wherever the homeless
live. Some of them move out to the country to join their
hillfolk cousins, but for the most part, they live and thrive
in the city.
Protectorate: Bone Gnawers look after the people
they live around: the homeless, dispossessed, insane and
drug-afflicted peoples of the cities. Although they have
rules against interfering in their lives, they usually inter-
fere anyway.
Bone Gnawers
As hungry mutts, the Bone Gnawers have survived for
centuries using their canny ability to sniff out food and
sneak about unseen. It’s possible that they were originally
of jackal stock, although their legends say that they were
the “runt” of the litter back in the old days: young, tough,
and stringy. Today, they tend to be play the role of
convenient scapegoats, although the Children of Gaia
tend to stick up for them in septs. A few Bone Gnawers
have gained enough Renown on their own to form their
own septs. They often discover or build caerns in the
secret places of the city they use on their own.
Throughout history, Bone Gnawers have followed the
dispossessed and the homeless. They hate slavery and
oppression in general, but they’re usually too busy just
surviving to care about most of Garou politics.
Because they are allied with all the dogs in any given
city (through a complex system of communication called
the “Barking Chain”), and because they know many
secrets about the sewers and the tunnels underneath the
city, the Bone Gnawers are pretty much in the know
about what goes on in any metropolitan area. This is as
much a survival tactic as it is a strategic activity: they
need to know when it’s time to flee a sinking ship once
things go wrong.
Totem: The Rat
Initial Willpower: Two Traits
Tribe Advantage: Finking
Bone Gnawers always have an inkling as to what is
going on in the city in which they live. As a result, they
can gain an instant Influence Trait in any area for the
purpose of gathering information. This can be done once
per session per level of Rank.
Tribe Drawback:
Bone Gnawers are often regarded as filthy, second-
class Garou because of their lifestyles. Because of this, a
Bone Gnawer must first gain the approval and sponsor-
ship of an elder who is not a Bone Gnawer before he can
gain any Honor, Glory or Wisdom Renown.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
47
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Outlook: The Bone Gnawers like anyone who will
give them half a shred of respect, but they can sense
whenever someone is attempting to take advantage of
them. They are very practical and tend to ignore the
more high-minded tribes, even making fun of them from
time to time. They don’t care much about prophesies or
even the Wyrm; they’re usually too busy surviving on a
day-to-day basis.
Quote: “Whatcha gonna do, send ‘em chocolate and
roses? Two days ago, I saw an entrance that could get you
into that Pentex factory. If you want in there, you talk to
me. Yeah, that’s right... me. Ya got any grub?”


The Apocalypse
48
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
this, Children of Gaia begin with the additional
Social Trait: Diplomatic, which cannot be lost.
Tribe Drawback:
Children of Gaia do not cause a Delirium reaction
and therefore must exercise great care not to break
the Veil. Many Children see this as a mixed blessing,
since it allows them more opportunities to interact
freely with humans.
Backgrounds: Children of Gaia may take any
Background Traits.
Beginning Gifts: Mother’s Touch, Resist Pain
Wolf Form: Children of Gaia don’t look much
different from other Garou— the difference is in
their demeanor. Instead of seeming like cold, feral
animals, they instead seem more like large friendly
dogs.
Organization: The Children of Gaia respect the
experience and knowledge of others. However, they
also appreciate the energy and originality of the
young. At a meeting of the Children, anyone may
speak, and everyone is expected to hear other what
others have to say.
Habitat: The Children of Gaia have no apparent
preference when it comes to territory and do not
shun areas frequented by humans, like some tribes
do. On the contrary, they actively look for opportu-
nities to interact with human society to better
understand and hopefully communicate with hu-
mans. Children of Gaia can be found among
ecological movements and activist groups where
they believe their message will be openly heard and
spread.
Amidst the sea of violence and anger that con-
sumes the Garou race, there is an island of reason
and restraint. These gentle and empathic souls are
the Children of Gaia, so-named because of their
self-professed claim to be the tribe closest to the true
purpose of Gaia.
Children of Gaia believe, unlike the majority of
Garou, that humans can be taught the error of their
ways. They argue that by persecuting the blind,
naked humans, Garou have only isolated these
errant children from their place in Gaia’s scheme.
Caught between the ravages of the Impergium and
the dangers of the untamed wilderness, it is no
wonder that they sought shelter in the dark shadows
of the Wyrm.
The Children of Gaia propose that cooperation
and education are the best tools the Garou have to
rectify the mistakes of the past and hopefully pre-
vent what appears to be a darkening future. The
Children only hope that it’s not too late to avert
disaster.
The other tribes often scoff at the pacifistic dispo-
sition of the Children, calling them hopeful dreamers.
When cornered or defending what they see as a
noble or just cause, the Children of Gaia can be-
come a terrifyingly lethal force, even though they
lack the blind fury that they despise in their breth-
ren.
Totem: The Unicorn
Initial Willpower: Three Traits
Tribe Advantage: Diplomacy
The Children of Gaia are steadfast proponent of
peaceful negotiation and discourse. To represent
Children of Gaia


Chapter Four: Characteristics
49
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Protectorate: The Children of Gaia will become
involved in any segment of humanity in which they
believe they can institute peaceful change. Some
say the recycling movement and current attitudes of
ecological awareness owe a great deal to the efforts
of the Children of Gaia.
Outlook: Children of Gaia believe that it is their
responsibility to mediate disputes arising among the
other tribes. They fear that the eventual  downfall of
all Garou will come from inner strife and turmoil
rather than from external enemies. Were they not
there to guide the Garou toward a gentler path, the
Children feel, all would be lost.
Quote: “Each human we alienate, every careless
frenzy we give into and every petty power play we
engage in fills the bloated belly of the Wyrm to the
point of bursting and drowns us all in a flood of hate
and putrescence.”


The Apocalypse
50
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Known among Garou throughout Ireland, Britain and
Europe as bards, storytellers and great warriors, the Fianna
have earned their reputation through the centuries by
mastering both sword and song. Although today the
Fianna make their homes in many parts of the world,
their graceful Celtic homelands are still dear to them.
The bards of the Fianna are considered by all tribes to
be the most gifted, even by other Gibbous Moons. Taught
from birth to master the glory of song, their memories
reach back farther into Garou history than any other
tribe (despite the claims of those who might contest
this). Fianna Ahroun are also taught the glory of battle
and prove to be difficult adversaries for even the most
ferocious Get of Fenris.
Out of all the tribes, the Fianna seem to be more
tolerant and hold fewer prejudices than any other tribe.
They do have long-standing rivalries with both the Get
of Fenris and the Shadow Lords, though, and they will go
to great lengths to show up or embarrass members of
those tribes. For the most part, the Fianna are content
with a good song and a pint of stout, but they are quick
to temper and dangerous when angered.
In recent years, there has been a division of loyalties
among the Fianna. With the occupation of Northern
Ireland by the British, Irish Fianna have lent their ser-
vices to the IRA, while their British cousins have joined
forces with the Provincial Army. This has been the
greatest threat to Fianna security ever. The war rages on,
despite pleadings from other Fianna for the fighting to
cease.
Totem: The Stag
Initial Willpower: One Trait
Tribe Advantage: Heirloom
The Fianna are extremely close-knit and very family-
oriented. As a result, all Fianna begin with an heirloom
that can be used as a two Trait fetish. A player can spend
additional Background Traits if she would like this Heir-
loom to be more powerful; however, a Garou can never
have a fetish with more than five Traits.
Tribe Drawback: Heirloom
If a Fianna ever loses her Heirloom, or if it is destroyed,
she automatically loses two Honor Renown Traits and
will be unable to gain any further Renown until she has
either recovered her Heirloom or received forgiveness
from her Fianna elder.
Backgrounds: Fianna may select any Background.
Beginning Gifts: Persuasion, Resist Toxin
Wolf Form: In full Lupus form, the Fianna appear as
huge blood-red or black wolves with green to greenish-
gray eyes. They look very much like dire wolves.
Organization: Family is very important to the Fianna,
as blood is everything to this tribe. Fianna and their
Kinfolk meet once every lunar month to settle disputes
and rejoice in their Celtic heritage, spinning tales of their
deeds and bringing greater glory to themselves and to the
tribe. The governing body that oversees this tribe, the
Council of Song, is a group of elder Garou. Each one is
elected by the tribe from a different Auspice. Their
responsibility is to decide all matters concerning the
tribe, affairs concerning intertribal politics as well as
matters pertaining to other facets of society, both human
and Garou. They are well-respected among the Fianna,
and their word is considered law.
Habitat: The Fianna may be found in all environ-
ments, although they prefer rural areas. The elders and
their kin prefer the quiet life of farming, while the youth
are apt to live in the cities among the humans and follow
their ways.
Fianna


Chapter Four: Characteristics
51
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Protectorate: These Garou hold close ties to the
Celtic way of life and, because of this, they protect the
Irish and British with a fierce passion. Due to their
migrations in recent decades, they have also taken the
responsibility of protecting singers and entertainers of all
types.
Outlook: You believe that all the world is your stage
(or your pub), and believe in enjoying life to the fullest.
You tend to ignore your serious cousins in the other
tribes. What do they know, anyway?
Quote: “I’m concerned as much about Northern Ire-
land as you are, but right now, why don’t you sit your arse
down and listen to the music? Damn! Bartender, another
whiskey... Hey, I said shut up!”


The Apocalypse
52
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Tribe Advantage: Pelt of Fenris
The Get of Fenris are some of the toughest warriors of
all the Tribes. One reason for this is their thick pelt; when
in Crinos or Lupus form, a Get of Fenris gains one
additional wound level.
Tribe Drawback:
The Get are extremely secular and snide. They auto-
matically begin with two Negative Social Traits. One of
these must be “Condescending”; the other may be cho-
sen by the player. No additional “freebie” Traits are
generated by these, as they are qualities that all Get of
Fenris have.
Backgrounds: The Get may choose from any Back-
ground except for Past Life.
Beginning Gifts: Razor Claws, Resist Pain
Wolf Form: The Get are probably most menacing in
Lupus form, as they believe intimidation is mandatory to
victory. They appear as gray northern wolves, although
this is diminishing somewhat due to their crossbreeding
with other cultures.
Organization: This tribe meets regularly on every full
moon. These meetings are very strict, with an air of
military discipline about them. The Ahroun are given
the greatest respect among the Get, as they are the tribe’s
fiercest warriors. However, each of the auspices has a role
in battle. Even a Get of Fenris Ragabash can be a fierce
opponent. During these moots, the Get plot war strate-
gies and tell of deeds of great glory. They also settle any
major disputes within the tribe by combat; sometimes the
losers do not live very long.
Habitat: The Get tend to live in rural areas, making
their homes with the same families they have bred with
for years. Many of the younger Get have followed the
humans and their ways in a disturbing manner, joining
with skinhead and Neo-Nazi groups and bringing shame
to their tribe.
Renown for their fierce tempers and bloodthirsty
ways, the Get of Fenris have earned the reputation of
being the quintessential battlelords of the Garou. As a
rule, they are savage and merciless, giving no quarter to
a fallen enemy. They believe mercy is for the weak.
Originally from Scandinavia, the Get migrated with
the Vikings in their conquests throughout Europe and
took what they wanted before destroying the rest, much
like their Viking Kinfolk. They believe in the superiority
of their bloodline, much like the Fianna, and even today,
most of this tribe hails from Scandinavian and German
ancestry. The Get believe that the other tribes are too
weak to combat the forces of the Wyrm, and they feel
that they must do it themselves. They are renown for
intervening in battle, pushing their cousins of other
tribes aside and taking the glory for themselves. At times,
other tribes harbor great animosity for the Get.
Members of the Get of Fenris believe that the only way
to defeat the Wyrm is all-out war; anything less is coward-
ice. They constantly push their philosophies at the moots
and become irritated and violent when their ideas, con-
sidered brash and foolish, are ignored. The Get believe
that those who do not rush into battle are weak and
deserve only death. The battlefield is home for the Get of
Fenris, and they do not fear death. They believe that if
they fight bravely and embrace the glory of war, they will
be lifted to Valhalla upon death and be given the Gift of
eternal conflict. The Get have the highest casualty rate
of all the tribes.
When the Get are not in battle, they are planning
strategies or telling tales of glory around the fire. This
tribe keeps mostly to itself, not caring to interact much
with other tribes. They are long-standing enemies with
the two tribes composed of primarily indigenous peoples,
the Wendigo and the Uktena.
Totem: The Fenris Wolf
Initial Willpower: One Trait
Get of Fenris


Chapter Four: Characteristics
53
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Protectorate: The Get hate all humans. They also
believe that those who are too weak to survive deserve
death.
Outlook: Life is battle and war is glory. We were put
here to fight, and that is what we will do. Mercy is for the
weak, and those who are not strong enough to stand by
our side will receive no pity from Gaia.
Quote: “You’ve put up a good fight, but I’m through
playing. Now I’m going to kick your ass and tell of my
glory under the next full moon. Die well.”


The Apocalypse
54
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
can be purchased for three experience points— subject to
Storyteller approval, of course.
Tribe Drawback: Touch of the Weaver
Glass Walkers are one bid down in all interactions
with non-Weaver Spirits (they must bid two Traits to
begin a challenge against one).
Backgrounds: Glass Walkers may not buy the Past
Life or Pure Breed Backgrounds.
Beginning Gifts: Control Simple Machine, Persua-
sion
Wolf Form: Small-to-medium size wolves with mottled
patterns in their fur (often with an “unnatural” tinge).
Many of the cubs of this tribe indulge in Urban Primitiv-
ism, cutting their fur in strange shapes, piercing their
bodies, submitting to silver brandings, accumulating
strange tattoos and generally altering their bodies the
way they want them to be.
Organization: The Glass Walkers are generally orga-
nized in a very human way. They tend to think of
themselves as a corporation, with directors, middle-
management and employees. Their caerns are usually
located within cities, often in places that shock and
alarm other Garou (such as the tops of skyscrapers or in
the middle of abandoned factories).
Many of the old-guard Glass Walkers are still very
much allied with the Mafia and tend to rule their septs
like Mafia families. Many young Glass Walker packs
have very loose structures— Garou hackers and Com-
puter Theurges care more for knowledge and skill than
they do for Renown. Some Glass Walker packs merge
with other Glass Walker packs into large, roaming “Ur-
ban Primitive” tribes.
The Glass Walkers were once allied with the Bone
Gnawers, but since 1929 and the Great Depression, they
have fought off and on. Still, because they both live in the
city, they are usually friends, or at least allies against a
common outside evil.
Many Glass Walkers have positive relations with
Ventrue and Toreador vampires, despite the Litany’s
While the Bone Gnawers merely survive in the city,
the Glass Walkers thrive there. They see the city as just
another kind of wilderness: an ocean of concrete, a forest
of skyscrapers or a coral reef of condominiums. They feel
that the city has a kind of spirit and life all its own, and
they seek to explore the diversity that this “new wilder-
ness” provides.
The Glass Walkers originated in Mesopotamia, where
they split with the Garou and came to live in the cities
despite the proscriptions against doing so. They became
enforcers and mercenaries for merchants in the Middle
Ages and allied with guilds and the like. They were at the
forefront of technological change during the Renais-
sance and later in the Industrial Revolution, learning
that everything has spirits, even great steam engines and
assembly lines.
The Glass Walkers developed Mafia ties as a result of
their enforcer past, and in the ’20s, Glass Walker gangs
provided muscle to many Mob actions. With the advent
of computers, the Glass Walkers learned about a new
kind of spirit— the Net-Spiders, the computer spirits.
Befriending these spirits, they found themselves in con-
trol of spirits that could alter and gather information
from computers all over the world, and they discovered
an entirely new world called the CyberRealm. The Glass
Walkers believe it is their duty to guide the cities and
technology of the world to a path allied with Gaia.
Indeed, they see Gaia as a part of the city itself.
Totem: Cockroach
This may sound disgusting at first, but Cockroach is
the most adapted animal in any city. Some Glass Walkers
hold Spider in high regard as well.
Initial Willpower: Two Traits
Tribe Advantage: Weaver’s Children
The Glass Walkers begin the game with one addi-
tional Influence Trait. Furthermore, a Glass Walker can
purchase more Influence with experience (which is some-
thing other Garou cannot do). One Trait of Influence
Glass Walkers


Chapter Four: Characteristics
55
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
prohibition against dealing with the Kindred. These
more civilized Kindred see the Glass Walkers as perhaps
the last hope of making peace with the Garou, although
competition in financial spheres has also caused conflict
in the past.
Habitat: The Glass Walkers live in the cities, period.
They hate the wilderness for the most part, and need
civilized comforts wherever they go. Some Glass Walkers
are seeking to beautify the city by planting hardy trees
and creating arboretums, but this is as close to the wild as
the Glass Walkers want to get.
Protectorate: The Glass Walkers watch over the city,
but more specifically, in recent times, they have begun
guarding and watching over the underworld of a city: the
crime, drugs, prostitution and nightclubs. The younger
Glass Walkers see it as their duty to watch over the
worldwide computer Net— the Digital Web that stretches
across the entire globe.
Outlook: Glass Walkers see themselves as the next
stage in Garou evolution. They believe that Gaia is
leading them to be the rulers of a new world where the
Weaver has woven her webs all over the Earth. They
believe that they can help humanity and the Garou
survive the coming Apocalypse by providing them with
the technology and spiritual wisdom to survive. Because
of this, they are somewhat arrogant. They are almost as
subtle and crafty as their Shadow Lord cousins. Indeed,
many conflicts between the Glass Walkers and the
Shadow Lords are like great chess games using the other
Garou as pieces. Their irreverence for tradition has
earned them many enemies, especially among the Silver
Fangs. Many tribes lust after their secret knowledge of
city-spirits, especially the Uktena. The Stargazers find
them interesting. They are hated severely by the Red
Talons and the Get of Fenris, who have almost decided
that they are of the Wyrm. The Bone Gnawers like them,
but don’t get too involved in their plots, if for no other
reason than survival. Strangely enough, the Silent Strid-
ers and the Black Furies do not conflict with them as
much as the other tribes.
Quote: “Okay, I was cool when you asked me to leave
the Gameboy behind. And I can understand not bringing
along an electric generator— they’re heavy. But now
you’re saying that I can’t bring my CD player into the
caern because it’s upsetting the spirits? That’s crap! What
do they want to hear? John Denver?”


The Apocalypse
56
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
upstarts have become the targets of anger and vio-
lence from their elders, and many have been
destroyed because of their beliefs.
Totem: the Griffin
Initial Willpower: One Trait
Tribe Advantage: Gaia’s Fury
Red Talons gain one additional Rage Trait during
character generation.
Tribe Drawback: Wyld Child
A Red Talon is completely at home in the Wyld.
Unfortunately, he cannot find peace in the cities.
As a result, a Red Talon cannot regain Gnosis in any
urban environment.
Backgrounds: Red Talons may not buy Influ-
ence.
Beginning Gifts: Beast Life, Scent of Running
Water
Wolf Form: A large brown wolf with fangs and
claws prominent and ready for battle. When they
appear in Homid form, it is always an unpleasant
sight: they are slouching, hairy and often ape-like in
appearance. This is to convey their contempt for
humanity.
Organization: As this tribe is very close to their
lupine roots, any group is led by an Alpha. The
strong lead and the weaker follow.
Habitat: The Red Talons are found in the wilds,
far removed from human settlements of any kind.
The Red Talons are perhaps more intolerant of
humans than any other tribe, even the Get of Fenris.
They would enjoy nothing more than seeing the
entire race utterly destroyed so that the blood of the
humans could flow freely through the streets. The
Red Talons were the most opposed to ending the
Impergium and still attempt to convince other tribes
to reinstate it. They believe humanity as a whole is
“of the Wyrm” and, as such, must be removed from
the Earth. Only then will the Garou be able to defeat
the Wyrm completely.
The Red Talon tribe is composed entirely of lupus
stock Garou, and although they tolerate the other
breeds, they disdain being in their presence. Other
breeds are considered to be weak, but are also seen
as necessary in the war against the Wyrm. The Red
Talons are the least understood of all the tribes.
They are the most wolf-like and take great pleasure
in rituals that the other tribes could never fathom.
They also keep to themselves as much as possible,
and fighting among their own tribe members is very
rare.
Humans are not the only creatures they despise.
They’re so filled with hate that they’ve got plenty to
go around. Vampires are at the top of their list and
rival the hatred they hold for the humans. The Red
Talons believe that vampires are little more than
dead humans with too much power, a blasphemous
manifestation of the Wyrm whose only gift should
be destruction. Younger members of this tribe have
become more tolerant toward humans and believe
that some of them may be worth saving. These
Red Talons


Chapter Four: Characteristics
57
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Protectorate: The Red Talons protect the wolves
of the world from destruction at the hands of the
humans. They have sworn to destroy any who bring
harm to their wolfen Kinfolk.
Outlook: The other tribes were weak to allow the
humans to reign as they do. Bringing an end to the
Impergium was a mistake. Now the Red Talons must
suffer under the talons of the Wyrm and the perse-
cution of its host, the humans.
Quote: “Grrrrrrrr. Me hate human, kill human,
kill all human. Start with you first. Grrrrrrr.”


The Apocalypse
58
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Backgrounds: No restrictions.
Beginning Gifts: Aura of Confidence, Fatal Flaw
Wolf Form: They appear as massive dark gray or
black wolves with massive, thick shoulders, much
like pit bulls.
Organization: The Shadow Lords boast of a chain
of command that would make any corporate divi-
sion proud. No member is ignorant of his position,
power or, more importantly, responsibility. At the
lower levels, the eager young pups stand ready fill
any vacancy that might open in the tribe’s ranks,
including vacancies they sometimes create. Those
already comfortable in positions of power are con-
stantly on guard for capable upstarts, because they
must constantly prove themselves. All in all, the
Shadow Lord drive for dominance creates a con-
stant current that inundates their hierarchy with
the most capable members while washing away
those who can no longer compete.
Habitat: The Shadow Lords are highly adaptable,
not as much as the Glass Walkers or Bone Gnawers,
but they more than manage. They can be found as
lawyers, businessmen, crime lords, politicians or just
about any profession where they can exert control
over others.
Protectorate: The Shadow Lords respect only power,
and the few humans they deal with must either respect
it or wield it. Many of their well-established Kinfolk
occupy complementary positions of power. As one
would expect, vampires and Shadow Lords often find
themselves at odds with each other, like two predators
competing for the same ecological niche. It’s only a
matter of time before the two realize they stand a great
deal to gain from cooperation; some say they already
have...
Shadow Lords
The Shadow Lords are a tribe as dark, forbidding
and unyielding as the lands of Eastern Europe that
spawned them. Their deeply ingrained hierarchy
gives them a strength that is sorely lacking in the
other tribes. Their tales are filled with descriptions
of their prowess, cunning and innate superiority.
Highest among Shadow Lord instincts is a sense
of “manifest destiny.” They see the Garou as the
ultimate lifeform on the planet. Therefore, Garou
are the obvious rulers. Furthermore, among Garou,
there is no greater tribe than the Shadow Lords.
After that, it doesn’t take a genius to figure out this
tribe’s agenda.
In the end, the only thing the Shadow Lords will
respect from Garou of other tribes is power. Even
then, they will always be waiting to seize the oppor-
tunity to displace their rivals at the slightest sign of
weakness.
The dark strengths of the Shadow Lords are
possibly their greatest weaknesses. Their boundless
pride, perhaps better called arrogance, is easily warped
by the Wyrm. Under the Wyrm’s maddening tute-
lage, the Shadow Lord’s pride blossoms into full
scale megalomania.
Totem: Grandfather Thunder
Initial Willpower: Two Traits
Tribe Advantage: Will of Thunder
By spending one Willpower Trait, a Shadow Lord
can double the total number of Social Traits she has
bid in a Social Challenge. This includes doubling
Traits to resolve a tie or crush an opponent in an
overbid.
Tribe Drawback: Burden of Failure
Because of the unforgiving nature of their tribe,
Shadow Lords suffer double Renown loss for any
failing or transgression on their part.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
59
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Outlook: The Shadow Lord character has to
realize that while it is perfectly obvious to her that
she is the obvious choice as leader, others may not
see things as clearly. Some Garou will perceive the
ambitious Shadow Lord as a potential tyrant. None-
theless, if she is not chosen outright as the pack’s
leader, she must achieve that position (or a greater
one) by some other means. Some choose to lead
from behind the scenes, manipulating others in a
puppet show. In some cases, staging a coup is a
simple matter of challenging the current, inept
leader. Others must go as far as to humiliate and
discredit the current leader. Regardless of the means
you use, the end result will justify your means. Do
not fail. Your superiors cast a grim eye upon failure.
Quote: “The meek may very well inherit the
Earth, but not until we’re finished with it.”


The Apocalypse
60
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
information concerning it. To represent this power,
the player is issued an “Omen of Doom” card at the
beginning of the session; the card is destroyed when
the power is evoked. These cards may not be accu-
mulated and must be returned at the end of the
session if they have not been used.
Tribe Drawback: Wandering Spirit
Because of their role as outsiders in the Garou
community, Silent Striders may not support or con-
test any Renown nominations concerning
themselves or others.
Backgrounds: Silent Striders may not buy the
Past Life Background.
Beginning Gifts: Sense Wyrm, Speed of Thought
Wolf Form: Silent Striders resemble the jackals
of Egyptian art: huge, lean creatures with inscru-
table expressions and regal countenances.
Organization: Among the Striders, a well-de-
fined structure would be impractical, if not
completely useless. Instead, they defer to those with
the most experience in the matters at hand.
Habitat: The Silent Striders claim no land as
their own and can be found in almost any corner of
the world. They remain in one place only as long as
is necessary and then leave, sometimes never to
return.
Protectorate: Serving few individuals other than
their fellow Garou, Silent Striders pay little heed to
the tradition of protectorates. Unlike the Red Tal-
ons, they bear humans no particular malice and
even hold a grudging respect for those who share
their lifestyle, such as gypsies, circus performers and
the few nomadic peoples left in this world.
Outlook: Silent Striders have an economy of
behavior that belies their nomadic existence. They
act and speak on what is pertinent and have little use
Silent Strider
As their name would suggest, these enigmatic
Garou skirt the boundaries of both Garou and hu-
man society. Quick minds, agile bodies and an
unfathomable pool of knowledge are the hallmarks
of these most mysterious of Garou. Their origins,
both as individuals and as a tribe, are often nebulous
at best. Their preference in names and in culture
suggests strong ties to ancient Egypt. Among the
other tribes, they are respected for their wisdom, but
their solitary and secretive nature makes it difficult
for other Garou to fully accept them.
The same nature that alienates the Silent Striders
from many of their fellow Garou also makes them
best-suited for the invaluable service they provide
to the other tribes. Among Garou, the Silent Strid-
ers are the penultimate messengers and couriers.
Striders cross regions other Garou would avoid, and
they travel with an alacrity that rivals human con-
traptions. Without this service, communications
among the already fractious septs would quickly
erode.
The rigors of a nomadic lifestyle are not without
their price, however. Few Silent Striders form last-
ing friendships with those outside their tribe.
Totem: The Owl
Initial Willpower: Two Traits
Tribe Advantage: The Omen of Doom
Once per session, a Silent Strider can choose to
avoid a single situation as if he never uncovered it.
This will only apply to the Strider, not to his
companions or current allies. Examples include
avoiding an alleyway where he will be ambushed,
dropping a poisoned glass of wine or running out of
ammunition when accidentally shooting an ally.
The event is considered to have not occurred at all,
and anyone involved will totally disregard it and any


Chapter Four: Characteristics
61
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
for what they see as frivolous. They always seem
prepared for any situation and are rarely taken by
surprise. Their directness of action leaves them little
time or opportunity to make friends, and perhaps
they prefer it that way. Once a Strider has com-
pleted a task at hand, he moves on, almost instinc-
tively, to where he is needed next.
Quote: “I can handle the ‘rain, sleet and dead of
night’ thing, but next day delivery? Into Malfeas?
We’ve got to talk...”


The Apocalypse
62
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Silver Fangs
It has been said that if one were to take the single best
quality from each of the other twelve tribes and bring
them together in a Garou, that Garou would be a Silver
Fang. While many would contest this, none can deny
that, more so than any other tribe, the Silver Fangs have
been a rallying point for the Garou race. Leadership and
valor are the bread and butter of the Silver Fangs. The
palpable charisma and confidence they exude has made
them obvious leaders among the Garou.
Of late, however, the rock-solid bearing of the Silver
Fangs has suffered a terrible erosion. At best, they are
reserved and overly cautious in their rulings. At worst,
they are moonstruck. As a result, younger Garou are
loosing the time-honored respect for these once noble
Garou.
A Silver Fang character won’t just assume command,
he will expect it. While they are hardly the heavy-
handed tyrants the Shadow Lords portray, a Silver Fang
will brook little disrespect for his ability as a leader. The
character should lead by example. By best exemplifying
the most noble Garou Traits— wisdom, courage and
honor— she will inspire those around her to act likewise.
Remember, the Silver Fangs know more about what it is
to be a heroic Garou than most of the tribes.
Totem: The Falcon
Initial Willpower: two Traits
Tribe Advantage: Noble Birthright
Because of her traditional role as a leader and com-
mander, a Silver Fang may retest any Social Challenge
once.
Tribe Drawback: Inbreeding
The bane of the Silver Fangs, whether it be from
centuries of inbreeding or the depredations of the Wyrm,
manifests itself as insanity. Therefore, all Silver Fang
characters have a permanent Derangement, chosen at
character creation. This Derangement can be any of the
following, but is not limited to those listed.
Background: Silver Fangs must allocate at least three
of their five Background Traits to Pure Breed.
Sample Derangements
• Amnesia — In highly stressful and trau-
matic situations, you forget who you are.
• Intellectualization — You compulsively
analyze everything and block out as many emo-
tions as possible. However, when your fragile
world of facts and figures is shattered by the
supernatural, you usually freak out.
• Manic-Depression — You suffer from wild
mood swings ranging from wild bliss to com-
plete despair. You begin each story in one phase
or the other and can switch back and forth for
any number of reasons.
• Multiple Personalities— There are a num-
ber of different personalities housed within your
head. You may switch your identity, Nature or
Demeanor during times of great stress.
• Obsession— You tend to latch on to some-
one or something and make him or it the focal
point of your life.
• Paranoia— You see the Wyrm’s influence
in everything. Don’t the others see it too? Per-
haps they’ve been corrupted as well.
• Perfection— You work hard to keep every-
thing in your life going perfectly at all times.
You use all of your energy to prevent things from
going wrong and have been known to frenzy
when things don’t go in your favor.
• Power Madness— You are obsessed with
control and dominance over others.
• Regression— You tend to revert to child-
like behavior during times of extreme stress.
• Vengeful— When you have been wronged,
you become obsessed with getting even and
bent on making those who crossed you pay.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
63
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Beginning Gifts: Lambent Flame, Sense Wyrm
Wolf Form: They appear as stunningly beautiful silver
wolves.
Organization: The Silver Fangs honor their aristocratic
heritage in their tribal organization. Those with the best
lineage and those who have been in power the longest are
invariably heeded over others. While no one argues giving
an elder her due, many young voices with new ideas have
been drowned out by the rhetoric of the old guard.
Habitat: The Silver Fangs have a deep love for the
unspoiled wilderness of whatever land they dwell in. In
ancient times, they held fiefs with large tracks of wilder-
ness set aside for their personal enjoyment. This isolation
has done little to help them understand the dire peril
Gaia is in.
Protectorate: The Silver Fangs are expected, not just
by themselves, to persevere where all others would fail.
As a result, they have developed a sort of noblesse oblige
attitude that many Garou find condescending. However,
you haven’t seen determination until you’ve seen a Silver
Fang wading through a swarm of lesser minions to face an
enemy leader. Think of Lancelot with fur and claws.
Outlook: We have always ruled and will continue to
do so. It is our heritage and our right. We must serve and
guide our fellow Garou. As the Apocalypse draws near,
our leadership is needed more than ever.
Quote: “Patience and birthright are apparently vir-
tues you lack, pup. You would do well to follow me and
my example.”


The Apocalypse
64
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Totem: The Chimera
Initial Willpower: Three Traits
Tribe Advantage: Inner Peace
A Stargazer may regain Willpower as well as
Gnosis through meditation.
Tribe Drawback: Removed
All Stargazers have the Negative Social Trait:
Untrustworthy because they are so removed from
the rest of Garou society.
Backgrounds: Stargazers may not take the Back-
grounds of Allies, Fetish or Resources.
Beginning Gifts: Catfeet, Sense Wyrm
Wolf Form: Varies from light brown to complete
black.
Organization: They have no council or elders to
whom they must answer. Instead, each Stargazer
seeks her own path in the world. When they require
wisdom, members of this tribe seek to gain audience
with the aged among their kind.
Habitat: The Stargazers are wanderers, travelling
the world and calling no place home. They journey
from caern to caern, seeking wisdom and enlighten-
ment during their travels. They breed with humans
who have also cast away the evils of society: explor-
ers, hermits and rustics who live far removed from
the world of men.
Protectorate: Due to their nature, Stargazers feel
a special bond with the loners and derelicts of
human society. They protect them quietly, never
allowing them to realize the true horrors of the
Wyrm.
Stargazers
The Stargazers are perhaps the most peaceful and
contemplative of the Garou tribes. During the
Impergium, they were among the Garou who be-
lieved the treatment of the humans was unjust and
criminal and sought an end to their persecution.
Their pleas fell upon deaf ears, so they withdrew
from werewolf society to study and meditate on their
own, hoping to find inner peace and enlightenment
in a bleak, violent world. Their tendency to gaze
thoughtfully into the night sky was the inspiration
for the other tribes to give them the name they carry
still today.
The Stargazers, despite their peaceful nature, can
be as fierce in times of war as any other Garou. They
merely have different ideals. Working unseen in the
shadows, they protect humanity from the hideous
minions of the Wyrm. This has brought them great
animosity from some members of other tribes, but
their wisdom is widely respected among the Garou.
Despite this, the Stargazers are considered untrust-
worthy by many Garou.
The Stargazers live a very spartan life, shunning
civilization completely. They do not hold to mate-
rial wealth of any kind, considering it to be a burden
to spiritual enlightenment. They seek only truth.
Due to their spiritualistic nature, they have strained
relations with the Glass Walkers, who are children
of the city and followers of mankind’s ways. The
Glass Walkers cannot understand their tranquil
nature, so they condemn them for it.
The Stargazers hold a special relationship with
the moon. They believe that she guides them in all
ways, watching over and protecting them from the
horrors of the night.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
65
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Outlook: We must guide our Garou cousins into
a new era of peace. Only then, as one tribe with one
goal, can we hope to destroy the Wyrm and its
minions. Until they wish to see things that way, we
shall leave them to their own folly.
Quote: “It is such a peaceful night. Listen care-
fully to the forest, and it will tell you of days long
gone. Do not be so rushed; wisdom will find you. If
you go through life at a lightning pace, it will never
catch up with you. The choice is yours.”


The Apocalypse
66
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Tribe Advantage: Umbral Sight
You can peek into the Umbra from the real world at the
cost of a Mental Trait. This also allows you to see others
moving within the Umbra.
Tribe Drawback: Umbra Affinity
Your ties to this world are weak. You find it difficult to
return here from the Umbra. You must spend a Gnosis
Trait in order to leave the Umbra and return to Earth.
Backgrounds: No Restrictions.
Beginning Gifts: Sense Magic, Blur of the Milky Eye
Wolf Form: A smallish, darkly-hued wolf with strange
patterns of a lighter and contrasting color on its back and
flanks.
Organization: They operate very tightly-organized
septs, relying heavily on their own messengers, their
spirit-messengers, and the Silent Striders. They perform
regular rituals just to renew their connection with the
Land. It is rumored they have highly secret septs in
carefully hidden places that are still as pure and as
untamed as the land was during prehistoric times. They
are ruled by a central Lodge that is a collection of elders
from all the Uktena-dominated septs, although other
Uktena are often invited to attend.
Habitat: The Uktena live as near to their caerns as
possible, often building natural-material structures within
the Bawn. This means they usually live in the wilderness,
but many Uktena caerns are located on the repossessed
land of their ancestors.
Protectorate: They are supposed to watch over the
disenfranchised and oppressed people of the world; in
practice, they only watch over those who could poten-
tially be of use to them as a tribe. They have mingled with
and integrated people of Asian, African and European
heritage. Many of the younger members of the tribe are
wild street gangsters, but these young warriors soon learn
respect for their elders in one the Uktena septs and often
turn to a path of wisdom.
Uktena
The Uktena belong to one of the three tribes of Garou
that came to America across the Bering Land bridge.
They believe that open rage and narrow vision will be the
downfall of Garou. They also believe that, by coming to
understand the Spirit World, they will be able to spread
wisdom and allow the Garou to purify the world of the
Wyrm’s influence. The Wyrm is seen as a very real
spiritual taint that spreads itself all across the world.
To the Uktena, the “real” world is not important.
They would rather be in the Umbra than walking about
on earth. Since the destruction of the Croatan Tribe, the
Uktena’s maxim is “Know Thy Enemy.” They put their
spirits on the line in order to venture into the heart of the
Wyrm and discover its foul plans.
The Uktena were once purely Native American, but
they have since begun accepting those who are alienated
from other tribes. They have incorporated many magical
beliefs and cultures into their tribal rites and moots.
They are also concerned with fetishes, as they see
them as spiritual tools to strengthen themselves as spirit
warriors and protectors. They also feel that it is their duty
to watch over Wyrm-ridden areas and protect other
Garou from the Wyrm’s influence. They will often raid
the holdings of mages, Tremere vampires and even Black
Furies to recover fetishes they believe should be used in
service to Gaia.
The Uktena are secretive among themselves and are
often accused of allying with the Wyrm because of their
close study of it. This is not the case, however, as the
Uktena are probably one of the only tribes that knows
enough about the Wyrm to begin seriously harming it.
Still, taint by the Wyrm is an ever-present danger, and
all Uktena are aware of this fact. It is common practice for
all Uktena to undergo the Rite of Cleansing regularly in
order to clean themselves of Wyrm-taint.
Totem: Uktena, an ancient water spirit
Initial Willpower: One Trait


Chapter Four: Characteristics
67
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Uktena protect a version of the Silver Record
which has been around since the early days of the Garou,
and they refuse to let it fall into anyone else’s hands.
Quote: “You cannot know the power of the Wyrm.
Have you seen the fires reflected in its eyes? Have you
watched its fangs drool with poison? Have you heard its
breathing? Until you have walked with me down that
road, you will have to understand that there are some
things that you do not wish to know. There are some
things which would kill you if you found them out.
Beware of what you ask of the spirits...”


The Apocalypse
68
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Initial Willpower: Three Traits
Tribe Advantage and Drawback: The Wheel of
Seasons
The Wendigo Gain one (or two) positive Traits and
must choose one Negative Trait for each season of the
year.
• Winter — Physical Traits: Tenacious, Rugged; Nega-
tive Trait: Callous, Dull or Witless.
• Spring — Physical Trait: Energetic; Negative Trait:
Predictable, Tactless or Impatient.
• Summer — Social Trait: Charismatic; Negative
Trait: Lethargic, Violent or Shortsighted.
• Fall — Mental Trait: Reflective; Negative Trait:
Lethargic, Dull or Impatient.
Backgrounds: No restrictions.
Beginning Gifts: Call the Breeze, Camouflage
Wolf Form: The timber wolf: its fur varies from dark
gray to brown and it is known for its fierce black eyes.
Organization: The elders among the tribe are given
the utmost respect. They hold ceremonies on sacred
ground, much like Native Americans have for centuries.
Their moots are usually held on the crescent moon.
Habitat: They tend to live in the North Woods,
despite the fact that it is shrinking under the white man’s
continuing expansion. They make their home wherever
they roam, just as their ancestors have done for centuries.
Many of the Wendigo live on the reservations, since this
provides a haven away from the white men. One of the
reasons the Wendigo are not as powerful as they could be
is that one of their most powerful caerns, located in the
Black Hills, has been denied to them by the United
States Government. If it were ever to become open to the
Lakota people who originally dwelled on the land and
worshipped there, the Wendigo would be able to reclaim
the powerful caern and potentially cleanse the land all
around it. Many Wendigo seek to free the Black Hills for
this very purpose.
Protectorate: The Wendigo protect Native Ameri-
cans of all tribes and the lands on which they live. This
The Wendigo see themselves as the last of the pure
Native American tribes. Once part of the many tribes
who called the Americas their home, they are, along with
the Uktena, all that remain of the Pure Ones after the
European colonization of the continent. Because of this,
they still harbor resentment towards everyone of Euro-
pean descent, including their Garou cousins, for destroying
the land that they love so dearly. They will, however,
reluctantly come to their aid in times of need to wage war
against the Wyrm and its dark minions.
The Wendigo are very proud of their pure blood and
stay as far away from those of European descent as
possible, preferring to live in the wilds or, at the very
least, on the reservations away from the cities. Their
pride in the Native American heritage is strong, and they
pass on tales of glory around the evening fire. The
European invaders took their land, but they cannot break
their spirit.
The Wendigo are masters of woodland survival, be-
coming one with the land and letting the spirits guide
them through the wilderness. Such prowess has earned
them great renown, even among other Garou, and they
are sought out for their expertise. They are also experts at
hit-and-run tactics and are well-known as some of the
fiercest warriors among the Garou. After all, they have
more than 200 years of practice gained from fighting the
European invaders to fall back on. They enjoy causing
trouble and love nothing more than to provoke conflict
among their enemies. Their philosophy is simple: we
don’t need to fight the Europeans; they’re quite capable
of killing themselves.
Some of the young among the Wendigo believe that
the world is not as bad as their elders say and believe that
the differences between the Native Americans and the
others can be overcome. They ignore the teachings of
their elders and the bloody lessons that history has
taught, preferring to go out in the world and learn for
themselves. This has caused great unrest within the tribe.
Totem: Wendigo, the winter spirit of the north
Wendigo


Chapter Four: Characteristics
69
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
tribe is famous for organizing war parties with their
Native American Kinfolk to drive the whites away from
their lands. They still believe that the Wyrm is using the
white man to manifest itself and eat away the world.
Perhaps the best way to destroy the Wyrm would be to
destroy its host as well.
Outlook: The other tribes are fine as long as they stay
on their own land. We will survive without them. In fact,
they are part of the problem; if they had not come to our
land, the Wyrm would never have followed them. Now,
matters are worse, and they are to blame.
Quote: “Welcome to the real America. Now go,
before I kill you.”


The Apocalypse
70
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Nature and Demeanor
Humans instinctively roleplay. Every moment of our
lives is spent playing a role. We are made up of many
layers of personalities. Some of these we assume on
purpose; others arise naturally.
In the Storyteller and Mind’s Eye Theatre systems,
archetypes are a way of
defining personalities.
They describe the roles
that are characteristic of
our identities, the per-
sonality types all people
somehow share. The
psychologist Carl Jung
discovered the concept
of archetypes as a way of
describing any concept
that resides in the col-
lective unconscious of
humanity. He believed
that such complex sym-
bols couldn’t be rigidly
categorized, but he did
give names to some of
the archetypes. None-
theless, in order to
incorporate the concept
of archetypes into our
systems, a modified ver-
sion of this idea is used
to describe personali-
ties, so remember to take
the following guidelines
with a grain of salt.
Characters do not, in
fact, fit into neat and
tidy categories. Arche-
types are the molds for
an infinite number of
different personalities,
and should not be seen
as absolute standards.
An archetype is a basic pattern, a template, and each
individual varies from that original in many ways. These
archetypes are examples of the variety of human person-
alities and are intended to guide, not restrict.
The key to the use of archetypes is the interaction
between the character’s Nature and Demeanor. Nature is
the inner personality, that which the character does not
usually reveal to others. Most dare not reveal their true,
inner selves, and therefore create a Demeanor— a false
front— behind which the true self can be hidden. De-
meanor may be as consistent as the character’s eye color,
or may change from minute to minute. Extraordinarily
open, honest or simple-minded individuals have the
same Demeanor and Nature.
Archetypes have a practical impact on the game, for
characters can be manipulated according to their person-
alities. The personality of a character can both protect
the player and make him vulnerable. Archetypes must be
chosen with care.
The following is
an in-depth account
of the Natures and
Demeanors avail-
able. Choose one
from the list that best
describes 
your
character’s Nature, or
inner self, and one
from the list that best
describes the front
that you wish to
present to the world.
This will help you in
creating a believable
and sincere charac-
ter 
from 
the
statistical skeleton of
your character sheet.
These archetypes will
help you build the
foundation for the
character that you
will play in The
Apocalypse. This is
the spark that will
breathe life into your
creation and make
her a real and active
part of the story.
Although this list
is quite detailed, it is
not all-inclusive.
The Narrator should
encourage the play-
ers to develop their
own archetypes to describe their characters’ Natures or
Demeanors, giving them an opportunity to create truly
unique personalities.
Alpha
You believe that you were born to lead and that
instinct proves you correct. It is your driving goal to
become the leader of the pack, the sept, the tribe or
another group. You are an “alpha,” a lead wolf. However,
others do not necessarily recognize you as such. Thus, you
feel the need to prove this to others constantly, in order
to reinforce this idea in them and in yourself. This has


Chapter Four: Characteristics
71
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
brought you many challenges, and will bring many more
in the future.
Autist
You must hide your secrets from others. Even more
importantly, you hide your true self. Anyone who under-
stands you can hurt you, so no one must ever see the real
you. No one can come close. Give away as little of
yourself as possible— adopt a false personality if you
like— but just make sure no one gets hold of the truth
about you. Knowledge is power, and those who know you
can do anything they like to you. This is a Nature found
among many Uktena.
Bravo
You are a bully, a ruffian and a tough. You delight in
tormenting the weak. You always demand to have things
your way, and do not tolerate those who cross you. Power
and might are all you respect; indeed, you heed only those
who can prove their power over you.
You see nothing wrong with forcing your will upon
others. There is nothing you like better than to perse-
cute, antagonize, heckle and intimidate those for whom
you feel contempt. The emotions of kindness and pity are
not completely foreign to you, but you hide from your
own sense of weakness through cruelty to others. While
most Bravos despise the weak, others become their pro-
tectors.
Caregiver
You always try to help those around you, struggling to
make a difference in the needs and sorrows of the unfor-
tunate. People around you depend on your stability and
strength to keep them steady and centered. You are the
one to whom people turn when they have a problem.
This is a Nature found among many Children of Gaia.
Child
You are still immature in personality and tempera-
ment. You’re a kid who never grew up. Though you can
care for yourself, you prefer the security of being watched
over by others. You often seek out someone to look out
for you, not as a parent, but as a caretaker of sorts. Some
see you as a spoiled brat, while others see you as an
innocent cherub unspoiled by the evils of the world. This
is a very uncommon archetype for Garou.
Competitor
You are driven by the need to win at all costs. The
thrill of victory is the only thrill that you recognize; it is
the thing that drives you on. You see life as a contest and
society as a dichotomy of winners and losers. You believe
all the macho business proverbs: if you’re not lead dog,
the view never changes; there are no prizes for second
place; eat or be eaten. You try to turn every situation into
a contest of some kind— it is the only way you can relate
to anything. You are capable of cooperating with others,
but only by turning the group interactions into another
contest. You must be the leader, or the most productive,
or the most indispensable, or the best liked— anything,
as long as it means you win in some way or another. This
is a Nature found among many Shadow Lords.
Confidant
You understand others, and more importantly, you
like them. You are a facilitator who listens and advises.
People confess to you, and, in return, you give them
advice, most of it good (although sometimes your advice
is more for your own benefit than for the benefit of the
recipient). You are very interested in other people, in-
cluding who and what they are. The personality, brutality
and beauty of the Garou fascinate you.
Conformist
You are a follower. Taking charge simply isn’t your
style. It’s easy for you to adapt, attune, adjust, comply or
reconcile yourself to a new situation in which you find
yourself. You are attracted to the brightest star, the
person whom you feel will go the farthest. It is both
difficult and distasteful for you to go against the flow, to
rebel. You hate inconsistency and instability, and know
that by supporting a strong leader, you help prevent
chaos from occurring. All stable groups need some kind
of conformist.
Conniver
What’s the sense of working hard when you can get
something for nothing? Why work when, just by talking,
you can get what you want? You’re always trying to find
the easy way out, the fast track to success and wealth.
Some people might call what you do swindling or even
outright theft, but you know that you only do what
everyone else does; you just do it better. Besides, it’s kind
of like a game to you, and you get great pleasure from
outwitting someone. Connivers play many roles. You
may be a thief, a swindler, a street waif, an entrepreneur,
a con man or just a finagler.
Curmudgeon
You are an irascible, churlish old wolf at heart, taking
everything seriously and finding little humor in life
(though you may have a wickedly barbed wit). Cynicism
is your middle name; it is the tool by which you judge
everything in life. You have a very well-defined under-
standing of how things really work, especially when they
involve the circus of Garou endeavor. Long ago, the
foolish actions of others ceased to surprise you. This
could be a false front to protect the true sorrow you feel
at the coming of the Apocalypse, or maybe the Apoca-
lypse simply feeds your cynicism and “I told you so”
attitude.


The Apocalypse
72
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Deviant
There are always people who don’t fit in. You’re one of
them: you’re a miscreant. Your beliefs, motivations and
sense of propriety are the complete antithesis of the
status quo. You are not so much an aimless rebel as an
independent thinker who does not belong to the society
in which you were raised. You don’t give a damn about
other people’s morality, but you do adhere to your own
strange code of conduct. Deviants are typically irrever-
ent, and some can have truly bizarre tastes and desires.
Director
You despise chaos and disorder and tend to take
control and organize things in order to suppress anarchy.
You like to be in charge, live to organize, and habitually
strive to make things work smoothly. You trust your own
judgment implicitly and tend to think of things in black-
and-white terms: “This won’t work”; “You’re either for
me or against me”; “There are two ways to do this: my way
and the wrong way.” This is not the same as an Alpha, for
a Director can be perfectly happy working under an
Alpha— as long as she gets her way.
Fanatic
You are consumed by a cause; it is the primary force in
your life, for better or worse. You are driven to accom-
plish the directives of your self-appointed mission. Every
ounce of sweat and passion you possess is directed toward
it. Indeed, you may feel very guilty about spending time
on anything else. You let nothing stand in your way—
nothing that you cannot overcome, in any case. You and
those around you may suffer, but your cause is everything.
The end justifies the means. Before the game begins,
make sure you describe your cause to the Storyteller and
define how it may affect your behavior.
Gallant
You are as flamboyant as you are amoral. Some see you
as a rogue, a Don Juan, a rake, a paramour or just a lounge
lizard— you see yourself as all these things. As a consum-
mate actor who loves to make as big a show of things as
possible, nothing attracts your attention more than an
appreciative audience. You love people, and you love to
impress them even more. Although you may indeed be a
superior lover, you enjoy the chase almost as much as you
enjoy the consummation. Gallants vary widely in tem-
perament and ambition, holding little more in common
than their love of attention.
Hedonist
There is no point to life, no meaning or direction, so
the best plan is to have as good a time as possible. Rome
may burn, but you will drink wine and sing songs. You are
a bon vivant, a sensualist, a sybarite and a party animal.
The words austerity, self-denial, self-discipline and as-
ceticism have no place in your life. You prefer instant
gratification. You don’t mind a little hard work, as long
as a good time awaits when the work is done. Most
Hedonists have low self-control, for they so dearly love
going to excess.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
73
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Jester
You are the fool, idiot, quipster, clown or comic,
forever making fun of both yourself and others. You
constantly seek the humor in any situation, and always
strive to battle the tides of depression inside yourself. You
hate sorrow and pain and constantly try to take others’
minds off the dark side of life. Sometimes you’ll do nearly
anything to forget that pain exists. Your particular brand
of humor might not always impress your friends, but it
makes you feel better. Some Jesters manage to escape
pain and find true happiness, but most never find release.
Judge
As a facilitator, moderator, arbitrator, conciliator and
peacemaker, you always seek to make things better. You
pride yourself on your rationality, judgment and ability to
deduce a reasonable explanation when given the facts.
Your constant struggle is to promote truth, but you
understand how difficult it is to ascertain. You respect
justice, for justice is the means by which truth can reign.
In your view, people are resources, although they are
sometimes difficult to manage and employ. You hate
dissension and arguments, and shy away from dogma-
tism. Judges often make good leaders, but a lack of vision
can sometimes cause them to adhere to the status-quo
instead of searching for a better way.
Loner
You are always alone, even in a crowd. You are the
wanderer, hunter and lone wolf. Though others might
think of you as lonely, forsaken, isolated or remote, in
truth, you prefer your own company to that of others.
There are many different reasons why this might be: you
don’t understand people, people dislike you, people like
you too much, or you are simply lost in your own thoughts.
Your reasons are your own. You prefer to walk alone and
could care less about what others think or say about you.
Maker
Your sense of purpose goes beyond your own needs;
you are trying to create something of lasting value for
those who will come after you. People need many things,
and you gain satisfaction by providing whatever you can.
You are the type of person who makes an effort to build
something of value: founding a sept, creating a caern or
in some way leave a lasting legacy. Many American
pioneers were of this Nature.
Martyr
Many people possess the insticts of martyrdom, but
only a few act upon it. Even fewer live the life of a martyr.
You, however, are one of those few. Your desire for self-
sacrifice may stem from a poor self-image, a lack of
control, or a profoundly developed sense of love. You are
able to endure long-lasting and severe suffering because
of your beliefs and ideals.
At the worst of times, a Martyr expects sympathy and
attention because of his or her suffering, and may even
feign or exaggerate pain or deprivation. In the best of
times, a Martyr chooses to suffer injury or even death


The Apocalypse
74
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
rather than renounce religion, beliefs, principles, causes
or friends.
Masochist
You like to push the boundaries of endurance and like
to see how much pain you can tolerate before you
collapse. There is a certain satisfaction gained out of
suffering humiliation,
degradation and even
mutilation— espe-
cially when you are the
cause of it and have
some control over it.
You know that these
needs are somewhat
perverse, but you also
know that you aren’t
crazy; it’s just the way
that you are.
Penitent
You are unworthy.
You are sinful. You are
base, vile and lacking
in virtue. You have no
right to exist and are
utterly without hope.
Either because of a low
self-image or because
of a spectacularly trau-
matic past, you have
to spend your life mak-
ing up for what you
are, what you lack or
what you have done.
You owe it to creation
at large to make some
kind of amends for the
crime of your exist-
ence. You struggle
incessantly to make up
for your weaknesses,
and your daily dream
is finally to be able to overcome it. Nonetheless, you
know you are weak and beyond hope.
Predator
The urge of the wild is strong within you. Kill or be
killed, survival of the fittest— these age-old instincts are
imprinted in the deepest recesses of your brain. Let the
others talk of merciful Gaia all they wish. You know
Mother Nature takes no prisoners. The surest way to
render yourself safe from harm is to place yourself firmly
at the top of the food chain. Whether this “food chain”
is metaphorical or all too carnal depends on you.
Rebel
You are a malcontent, iconoclast and free-thinking
recalcitrant. You are independent-minded and free-willed,
and you’re unwilling to join any particular cause or
movement. You desire only the freedom to be yourself.
You do not make a good follower and aren’t usually a very
good leader (unless
your followers are
willing to go wher-
ever you lead). You
tend to be deliber-
ately insubordinate
to authority, even to
the point of stupid-
ity.
Reluctant
Garou
Being a werewolf
is cool, you guess,
and you can under-
stand the need for
“change,” but why
does it have to be
you? You were en-
joying 
being 
a
human (or wolf),
and you can never
go back. You want
to have a normal life,
go shopping without
guilt, go to school,
watch MTV, fall in
love, have a family
and a career— you
want to live just like
a normal person. Or,
if you were a wolf,
you would much pre-
fer to roam the
wilderness with your
pack. Your eyes have
been opened to
things you never wanted to see, and you miss being half-
blind. Granted, there are certain compensations in being
a Garou; still, given the chance, you’d rather have the life
you’ve lost.
Show-Off
You get your self-worth entirely from others. You
crave approval and praise and will go to extreme lengths
to get it, even risking yourself and the things you love, if
necessary. You do not think of protection, and you have
no thought of using others’ good opinions to your own


Chapter Four: Characteristics
75
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
advantage. You simply crave approval for its own sake so
that you can feel good about yourself.
Survivor
No matter what, you always manage to survive. You
can endure, pull through, recover from, outlast or outlive
nearly any circumstance. When the going gets tough, you
get going. You never say die, and never give up— never.
Nothing angers you as much as a person who doesn’t
struggle to make things better, or who surrenders to the
nameless forces of the universe. You utterly despise
quitters.
Traditionalist
You are an orthodox, conservative and extremely
traditional individual. What was good enough for you
when you were young is good enough for you now. You
almost never change. You oppose change for the sake of
change— what point is there in that, after all? You may
be seen by some as a miser, a reactionary or simply as an
old fogy. You strive to always preserve the status quo.
Visionary
There are very few who look beyond the suffocating
embrace of society and mundane ideas to see something
more. There are very few people who are brave enough,
strong enough or imaginative enough. Society treats
such people with both respect and contempt. The Vi-
sionary perverts the standards of society as she guides
others into the future.
You may be a spiritualist, shaman, New Age, mystic,
philosopher or inventor, but whatever you are, you are
always looking for something more. You see beyond the
bounds of conventional imagination and create new
possibilities. Though you might have your head in the
clouds and be of an impractical bent, you are filled with
new ideas and perceptions.
Traits
“I am the very model of a modern major general, with
knowledge of things animal and vegetable and mineral...”
—Pirates of Penzance
When a writer doesn’t have the time or need to
demonstrate what a character is like, descriptive words
are used. These words must be carefully selected so that
they reveal all the important features of the character’s
persona. These words are usually adjectives: “Vandalere
was a thin, frail man— weak in body, but diabolically
cunning in mind.”
In The Apocalypse we use these adjectives in much
the same way. Indeed, they are the basis of the game
system. We call them Traits.
Traits have two primary purposes. The first purpose is
to enable you to describe your character concretely and
thereby empower your roleplaying. The second is to
enable you to interact with other characters in the
mechanics of the game system. The mechanics of The
Apocalypse revolve around the Trait system. Challenges
between characters are resolved using them.
The premise of this system is that a character who is
described by a specific Trait tends to be pretty good at
things that involve that Trait, and is certainly better at
those things than someone who doesn’t have the Trait.
For example, someone who is Brawny is a better arm
wrestler than someone who isn’t. Likewise, a marathon
runner needs to be Tireless in order to finish a race
without being winded, and a child who is Persuasive has
a good chance of convincing his mom that he didn’t
break a vase that’s been shattered on the floor.
In theory, a player can choose any adjective and take
it as a Trait. However, for a number of reasons, this is not
suggested for any but the most expert. Many adjectives
are unimportant, extraneous and impractical; there is no
need for a Pyorrheal Trait, although it’s possible that a
vampire might get some form of gum disease. Still, the
chances of that Trait being used in a bidding contest—
the act of a challenge— are close to nil.
Allowing any adjective would play hell with the me-
chanics of the game. Players would have to carry around
pocket dictionaries and flip pages every time some wise-
cracker bid the Trait: Vigesimal. If there are a set number
of standard adjectives used as the Trait pool, everyone
can be expected to know the meaning of every adjective
and can know when each is applicable. For these reasons,
The Apocalypse has a list of Traits from which to choose.
If you decide to add more Traits to the list, here are
some guidelines: keep the number of new Traits low,
make sure all players understand them, and make sure
they don’t duplicate existing Traits.
Attributes and Bidding
Traits
Creative players can think of ways to use nearly any
Trait in nearly any challenge. Though this is praisewor-
thy, people can sometimes go too far. To avoid this, the
general rule on bidding Traits is very strict: you can only
bid Traits from the category that best suits the nature of
the challenge (i.e., bidding is done using one of the three
categories— Physical, Mental or Social categories). Even
then, however, not all Physical (or Mental, or Social)
Traits are appropriate to all Physical (or Mental, or
Social) Challenges.
For example, beginners might think they can use all
their Physical Traits in combat. This is incorrect. If your
character is trying to kick someone, Resilient is not an
appropriate Trait to bid as part of the attack. Likewise, if
your character is trying to sense the taint of the Wyrm,
Creative might not be an appropriate Trait.


The Apocalypse
76
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Brutal: You are capable of taking nearly any action in
order to survive.
Use: When fighting an obviously superior enemy.
Dextrous: General adroitness and skillful physical
manipulation.
Use: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms
Ability). Pickpocketing. Punching.
Enduring: A persistent sturdiness against physical
opposition.
Use: When your survival is at stake, this is a good Trait
to risk as a second, or successive, bid.
Energetic: A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal
drive propels you and, in physical situations, you can
draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal.
Use: Combat. Quickness.
Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme
physical determination.
Use: After the bidding has already begun and you
intend serious harm.
Graceful: Control and balance in the motion and use
of the entire body.
Use: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your
balance (stepping on a banana peel, fighting on four-
inch-thick rafters).
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness.
Use: Acrobatics. Gymnastics. Dodging. Dancing. At-
tacking.
For such an “inappropriate” Trait to be allowed, both
parties must agree. When an opponent bids a Trait that
you feel is extremely inappropriate, politely tell her that
you’re not going to allow its use. If she is insistent,
reevaluate your grievance. If you still can’t agree, appeal
to any witnesses of the contest. Then, if there is still
deadlock and no one is willing to compromise, seek out
a Narrator to make a ruling. Appeals to a Narrator,
however, should occur very, very rarely. Learn to handle
confrontations on your own, quickly and socially. Apoca-
lypse is a social game, and compromise makes the game
more entertaining for everyone.
To keep things simple, your group may choose to
ignore the subtleties of Traits and use any Physical Trait
in any Physical Challenge. This approach is particularly
useful when you have a number of novice players. Even-
tually, you will go beyond this boring convention and
only allow players to use Traits that are appropriate to the
situation at hand. This method is more complicated, but
it can be a lot more fun. Try it out.
Physical Traits
Athletic: You have conditioned your body so that it
responds well in full-body movements, especially in com-
petitive events.
Use: Sports. Duels. Running. Acrobatics. Grappling.
Brawny: Bulky muscular strength.
Use: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when
your goal is to inflict damage. Power-lifting. Feats of
strength.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
77
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving your own
neck is all that is important. You might even flee when
you have the upper hand, just out of habit.
Decrepit: You move and act as if you are old and
infirm. You recover from physical damage slowly, you are
unable to apply your full muscular strength, and you tire
easily.
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are easily
damaged by physical harm.
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious or Tenacious;
you lack physical persistence and tend to submit rather
than fight long battles.
Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You can-
not apply your strength well against resistance.
Lame: You are disabled in one or more of your limbs.
The handicap can be as obvious as a missing leg or as
subtle as a dysfunctional arm.
Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious
lack of energy or motivation.
Puny: You are weak and inferior in strength. This
might just refer to being small.
Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds to
physical stress as if it were in the throes of a debilitating
illness.
Social Traits
Alluring: You have an attractive and appealing pres-
ence that inspires desire in others.
Use: Seduction. Convincing others.
Beguiling: This Trait represents the skill of deception
and illusion. You can twist the perceptions of others and
lead them to believe what suits you.
Use: Tricking others. Lying under duress.
Charismatic: This is a talent of inspiration and moti-
vation, the sign of a strong leader.
Use: In a situation involving leadership or the achieve-
ment of leadership. Public speaking. Inspiring others.
Charming: Your speech and actions make you appear
attractive and appealing to others.
Use: Convincing. Persuading. Resisting Entrance-
ment.
Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and sug-
gestions. This implies skill in the control and direction of
others.
Use: Acting as a leader. In social situations, after an
initial bid of a Trait like Dignified or Charismatic.
Compassionate: Deep feelings of caring or pity for
others.
Use: Defending the weak or downtrodden. Defeating
major obstacles while pursuing an altruistic end.
Dignified: Something about your posture and body
carriage appears honorable and aesthetically pleasing.
You carry yourself well.
Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile move-
ments.
Use: Dodging. Jumping. Rolling. Acrobatics. Hand-
to-hand combat.
Quick: This Trait represents your speed and reac-
tions.
Use: Defending against a surprise attack. Running.
Dodging. Attacking. Reflexive response.
Resilient: This Trait represents hardiness or recupera-
tive ability. You are able to recover quickly from bodily
harm.
Use: Enduring adverse environments. Defending
against damage in an attack.
Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage.
Use: Defending against damage in an attack.
Rugged: You are hardy, rough and brutally healthy.
You can shrug off wounds and pain to continue your
struggles.
Use: When hurt and in pain, you have the will to
continue with physical actions.
Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising
against opposition.
Use: The second or higher bid when defending against
a combat attack.
Steady: More than simply physically dependable, you
are controlled, unfaltering and balanced. You have firm
control over your efforts.
Use: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations.
Piloting oil tankers.
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of
will. You often prolong physical confrontations, even
when it might not be wise to do so.
Use: You can use this Trait when it’s possible to
prolong any physical contest.
Tireless: You have a runner’s stamina— you are less
taxed by physical efforts than ordinary people.
Use: The second or higher bid in any drawn-out,
strenuous action, like running away or fighting.
Tough: A harsh, aggressive attitude and a reluctance
ever to submit.
Use: Whenever you’re wounded or winded.
Vigorous: This is a combination of energy, power,
intensity and resistance to harm.
Use: This Trait should be bid whenever possible if you
might take damage from an attack.
Wiry: Tight, streamlined, muscular strength.
Use: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acro-
batic movements. Endurance lifting.
Negative Physical Traits
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and
grace. You are prone to stumbling and dropping objects.


The Apocalypse
78
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Use: Evoking awe. Against vampires: Defending against
Social Disciplines.
Diplomatic: You are tactful, careful and thoughtful in
speech and deed. Few are displeased with what you say or
do.
Use: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situa-
tions.
Elegant: You have a way about you that suggests
refined tastefulness. Even though you don’t need money
to be elegant, you exude an air of wealth and a familiarity
with high society.
Use: High society gatherings or parties with Toreador
vampires. Might be important in some tribes for ad-
vancement. Defending against Social Disciplines or Gifts.
Eloquent: This Trait signifies the ability to speak in an
interesting and convincing manner.
Use: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public
speaking. Should be used as a later bid, after you’ve had
something to say.
Empathetic: You can identify and understand the
emotions and moods of people with whom you come in
contact.
Use: Gauging the feelings of others. Against vampires:
defending in Beast Within contests and Curse of Sutek
contests. Not very applicable for defending against So-
cial Disciplines (might actually make it easier to use
them on you).
Expressive: The ability to articulate thoughts in in-
teresting, significant, meaningful ways. If you want
someone to understand your meaning, this is the Trait to
apply.
Use: Producing art, acting, performing. Against vam-
pires: resisting Curse of Sutek.
Friendly: You get along with everyone you meet. Even
after a short conversation, most find it difficult to dislike
you.
Use: Resisting entrancement. Convincing others.
Genial: Cordial, kindly, warm and pleasant. You are
pleasing to be around.
Use: Mingling at parties. Generally used as the second
or later bid.
Gorgeous: You are beautiful or handsome. You were
born with a face and body that is good-looking to most
people you meet.
Use: Modeling, posing. Against vampires: Beast Within
contests.
Ingratiating: You know what to do to gain the favor of
people who know you.
Use: Dealing with elders in a social situation. Against
vampires: Entrancement contests. Defending against
Social Disciplines.
Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that
causes others to feel timid. This Trait is useful, particu-
larly when attempting to cow opponents.
Use: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others. Resist-
ing manipulative vampires.
Magnetic: People feel drawn to you; those around you
are interested in your speech and actions.
Use: Seduction. Resisting mind control.
Persuasive: Your arguments and requests seem believ-
able, convincing and correct. Very useful when someone
else is undecided on an issue.
Use: Persuading or convincing others.
Seductive: You know how to entice and tempt. You
can use your good looks and your body to get what you
want from others.
Use: Romance, picking up people. Generally used as a
later bid in a seduction attempt.
Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily
to you, and you are perceived as a funny person when you
want to be.
Use: Parties. Entertaining someone. A good first bid
for most actions.
Negative Social Traits
Bestial: Your appearance belies your bestial, primitive
self. If you’re in Homid form, maybe you have claw-like
fingernails, heavy body hair or a feral glint in your eyes.
If you’re in Lupus form, the “shaggy dog” routine just
won’t work. However your animalistic self manifests, you
definitely seem inhuman.
Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive
to the suffering of others. Your heart is a frozen stone.
Condescending: You just can’t help it— your con-
tempt for others is impossible to hide.
Dull: When others listen to you, they usually find you
boring and uninteresting. Most people think that con-
versing with you a chore. You do not present yourself well
to others.
Naive: You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication
or maturity that most carry.
Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in
speech, action or appearance.
Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around
you. Needless to say, you make a terrible first impression
with strangers.
Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially
hesitant.
Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others
find appropriate to the social situation.
Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be
untrustworthy and unreliable (whether you are or not).
Mental Traits
Alert: You are mentally prepared for danger and can
react quickly when it occurs.
Use: Preventing surprise attacks. Against vampires:
resisting Command the Wearied Soul.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
79
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors,
you are fully committed. Nothing can divert your inten-
tions to succeed once you have made up your mind.
Use: Facedowns. Useful in a normal Mental Chal-
lenge.
Discerning: You are discriminating and can pick out
details, subtleties and idiosyncrasies. You have clarity of
vision.
Use: As a second or later bid, especially when using
perception-based Gifts.
Disciplined: Your mind is structured and controlled.
This rigidity gives you an edge in battles of will.
Use: Facedowns. Asserting your will. Concentration.
Insightful: The power of looking at a situation and
gaining an understanding of it.
Use: Investigation (but not defense against it). Using
Heightened Senses. Seeing through Blur of the Milky
Eye or a vampire’s Obfuscate when you expect it.
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow
come to you without conscious reasoning, as if by in-
stinct.
Use: Seeing through any form of unseen presence.
Seeing true forms. Guessing.
Knowledgeable: You know copious and detailed in-
formation about a wide variety of topics. You have
“book-learning.”
Use: Remembering information your character might
know.
Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences
around you. When something extraordinary happens,
you are usually ready for it.
Use: Preventing surprise attacks. Against vampires:
seeing through Obfuscate when you don’t expect it, and
preventing Command the Wearied Soul.
Calm: You can withstand an extraordinary level of
disturbance without becoming agitated or upset. You are
a wellspring of self-control.
Use: Resisting frenzy or commands that provoke vio-
lence. Maintaining control whenever a mental attack
might upset you. Primarily for defense.
Clever: Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well
on your feet.
Use: Innovation. Brilliant strategies. Witty banter.
Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative.
This implies an ability to produce solutions to your
difficult problems and creating artistic pieces. This is a
requirement for any true artist.
Use: Creating anything. Defending against aura read-
ings. If a Mental Challenge continues for over six bids,
this would be a good Trait to bid to tip the scales.
Cunning: Crafty and sly, you possess a great deal of
ingenuity.
Use: Tricking others. Word games. Gamecraft.
Dedicated: You give yourself over totally to your
beliefs. When one of your causes is at stake, you stop at
nothing to succeed.
Use: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs
are at stake. Against vampires: resisting Forgetful Mind.


The Apocalypse
80
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Observant: This Trait signifies depth of vision, the
power to look at something and notice the important
aspects of it.
Use: Heightened Senses. Picking up on little secrets
the Storyteller might have planted.
Patient: You are tolerant, persevering and steadfast.
You can wait for a long time and maintain your compo-
sure.
Use: Facedowns and mental battles, especially after
another Trait has been bid.
Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and
sobriety. Your ability to reduce concepts to a mathemati-
cal level helps you analyze the world.
Use: Defending against emotion-oriented mental at-
tacks. Rarely used as an initial bid.
Reflective: Meditative self-recollection and deep
thought. As a serious thinker, you are able to consider all
aspects of a conundrum.
Use: Meditation. Remembering information. Defend-
ing against most Mental attacks.
Shrewd: You are astute and artful. You keep your wits
about you and accomplish mental feats with efficiency
and finesse.
Use: Defending against a Mental Discipline.
Vigilant: Alertly watchful. You have the disposition
of a guard dog. Your scrutiny misses little. More appropri-
ate for mental defense than for attack.
Use: Seeing through Blur of the Milky Eye or Blissful
Ignorance. Discouraging Investigation. Very applicable
against vampires, such as when defending against Forget-
ful Mind or Command the Wearied Soul.
Wily: You are sly and adept at using guile. Because you
are wily, you can trick and deceive easily.
Use: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing
mental situations.
Wise: This Trait represents an overall understanding
of the workings of the world.
Use: Giving advice. Dispensing snippets of Zen. De-
tecting a true form.
Negative Mental Traits
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even im-
portant things.
Gullible: You are easily deceived, duped or fooled.
Ignorant: You are uneducated or misinformed and
never seem to know anything.
Impatient: This Trait means you are restless, anxious
and generally intolerant of delays. You want everything
to go your way— immediately.
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You’d be lucky if
you noticed an airplane flying through your living room.
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelli-
gence, even strangers can easily figure out what you
intend to do next. Not a very good Trait for chess players.
Shortsighted: You lack foresight. You rarely look
beyond the superficial; details of perception are usually
lost on you.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
81
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Submissive: You have no backbone; you relent and
surrender at any cost rather than stand up for yourself.
Violent: An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into
rages at the slightest provocation, and you’re always close
to a frenzy. This is a Mental Trait because it represents
mental instability.
Witless: You lack the ability to process information
quickly. In all seriousness, you are foolish and slow to act
when threatened.
Abilities
Abilities are the skills, talents and knowledges of the
characters in a live-roleplaying environment. Obviously,
some do not translate well or do not apply to The
Apocalypse. Others have been incorporated into the
attributes of a character and can be performed by execut-
ing challenges.
Abilities allow the character to engage in, if not excel
in, a type of challenge when she could not otherwise
participate. Additionally, if a character is defeated in
such a challenge, she may choose to temporarily sacrifice
a level in the appropriate Ability to call for a retest.
While any Traits you’ve risked are still lost, it is possible
for you to still win the challenge. An Ability lost in this
manner is recovered at the beginning of the next session.
If a character loses all her levels in an Ability in this
manner, she may not use that Ability until the levels are
recovered.
Abilities can be chosen multiple times to represent a
high degree of expertise in that skill or familiarity with a
wide variety of specialties, such as the case with Perfor-
mance, Science and Linguistics.
The use of Abilities is often accompanied by a chal-
lenge of one sort or another. Some of these will be
performed with a Storyteller who will not only assign the
relative difficulty of the challenge (measured by a num-
ber of Traits), but will actually perform the test with you.
As a rule, no Traits or one Trait would be risked for trivial
uses, two to four would be at stake in novel, unusual or
challenging projects, and five or more would be risked by
attempting taxing, groundbreaking or unlikely attempts.
More details concerning difficulty and the factors that
influence it are included with each Ability.
Other abilities, such as Subterfuge or Melee, can be
used directly against another player and rarely need the
assistance of a Storyteller to use.
Animal Ken
This Ability is not as common among the Garou as
one would imagine— natural animals are just as suscep-
tible to the effects of the Delirium as humans, if not
moreso. A character with Animal Ken, however, has
practiced long and hard to regain the ability to interact
and cooperate with her feral brethren. Given time and
access to an animal, she may train it to perform simple
tasks, e.g. fetching, guarding, attacking, etc. When the
command is given, the animal must make a Mental
Challenge to successfully understand and carry out the
order. The Traits that must be bid range between one and
three depending on the difficulty of the task. The char-
acter may also attempt to calm an injured, attacking or
frightened animal by defeating it in a Social Challenge.
Brawl
You are proficient at using your hands (or claws) as
weapons. You may possibly be skilled at some form of
martial art or may have acquired your skill from numer-
ous street brawls.
Bureaucracy
The world of homids is a complex place riddled with
a staggering amount of complexity, paperwork and red
tape. An enterprising character can find this Ability a
godsend when trying to enlist the aid of organizations,
from government bureaus to small businesses. Bureau-
cracy can allow the character access to appropriate
licenses, use contractual agreements to his advantage, or
recover, alter or destroy files (in a pseudo-authorized
manner, of course). Bureaucracy often requires a Static
Mental or Social Challenge, depending on the type of
roleplaying the character performs or as a Storyteller sees
fit. Difficulty depends on such factors as security, acces-
sibility, nature of the information sought or
cooperativeness of the target involved.
Computer
We live in an Information Age where data pulses and
flows through silicon circuitry and fiberoptic lines. A
character with this Ability has learned many of the
secrets of this other world and can use them to her
advantage. She can infiltrate systems, swap data, steal
business and science secrets and access records. A Mental
Challenge is required to accomplish these and other
similar acts. Difficulty is based on system security and
accessibility, equipment, time, and the rarity of informa-
tion, as interpreted by a Storyteller. Failure can lead to
investigation by natural and sometimes supernatural
agencies that operate in the computer sphere.
Drive
The automobile is practically an essential aspect of our
world. It shrinks our world, giving the average person the
ability to regularly visit places her ancestors would never
have seen. In the states, the majority of adults have at
least some familiarity with these vehicles. A character
who also has this Ability is an adept driver capable of
tailing (and avoiding tails), avoiding collisions and using
her vehicle as a weapon. These actions often require a
Physical or Mental Challenge. Factors influencing diffi-
culty could include the type of vehicle, road conditions
and the sort of stunts attempted.


The Apocalypse
82
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Enigmas
The character has a knack, if not a fascination, with
the perplexing permutations of riddles and problems of
both the physical and intellectual varieties. When posed
with a conundrum of this sort, the player may request a
Mental Challenge to gain insight into the solution. The
Storyteller may require the player to risk a variable
number of Traits, depending on the relative difficulty,
character familiarity with the problem and existing in-
formation on the enigma.
Finance
Money talks, and you are fluent in its language. This
Ability allows you to follow money trails, perform and
verify accounting and understand such concepts as in-
vestment, buyouts and the like. These actions are a
function of Mental Challenge that depends on any
precautions taken by the subject, the amount of money in
question and the availability of information.
Firearms
Sometime during your existence, you have spent the
time to familiarize yourself with a range of guns and
similar projectile weapons. You not only to understand
how to operate them, but can also care for them, repair
them and possibly make minor alterations. The most
common use of this Ability is in combat, but a Storyteller
may also allow a Mental Challenge to allow the character
to use other functions, such as trick shots, hunting and so
on.
Investigation
You possess the learned skills of a diligent investigator.
This sort of attention to detail is often found among
private investigators, police officers, government agents
and insurance claims personnel. In any case, you can
often pick out or uncover details and clues that other
individuals would overlook or ignore. You may request a
Mental Challenge with a Storyteller to see if any clues
have been overlooked, piece together clues or uncover
information through formal investigation.
Law
Laws, whether civil or criminal, are based on layer
after layer of confusing tradition, precedence and proce-
dure. Your experiences with it, however, allow you to
make the system work for you. In the world of humans,
you can use the Law Ability to write up binding con-
tracts, defend clients, and know the rights of yourself and
others. The difficulty of the Mental Challenges neces-
sary to accomplish these tasks depends on factors like the
precedence, severity of the crime, legal complexity of the
subject and legal action desired.
Leadership
You have the gift of influencing and inspiring others.
This is a function of confidence, bearing and a profound
understanding of what motivates others. You may use
this Ability to cause others to perform reasonable tasks
for you. They must first be under your command or serve
in some way as your subordinates. Examples include: an


Chapter Four: Characteristics
83
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Alpha and her packmates, an officer and his soldiers, a
CEO and his employees or a crimelord and her hench-
men. These requests should not violate the subject’s
Nature or Demeanor. The subject must first be defeated
in a Social Challenge. If the action would endanger other
characters who follow you, they should be given a choice,
but a challenge can assist in roleplaying this out.
Linguistics
You have received tutelage in one or more languages
other than your native tongue. This can be anything
from ancient hieroglyphics to common national lan-
guages or complex dialects. The language known must be
specified when the Linguistics Ability is chosen and may
not be changed; one new language is chosen each time it
is taken. This skill allows you and anyone who also knows
the language to speak privately. Furthermore, you can
translate data for yourself or others, though a Static
Mental Challenge may be required, depending upon the
complexity of the text.
Medicine
This Ability represents an adeptness at treating the
injuries, diseases and various ailments of living creatures.
You can allow a living being under the treatment of
someone with the Medicine Ability to recover a single
Health Level per night with time and a Mental Chal-
lenge. The difficulty is influenced by the severity and
nature of the damage, equipment at your disposal and any
assistance or distractions. Other uses of this Ability
include forensic information, diagnosis and pharmaceu-
tical knowledge.
Meditation
Meditation is the Ability of calming the emotions,
controlling the mind and relaxing the body. Garou may
use this to channel and renew Gnosis. For every ten
minutes spent in meditation, the Garou may convert one
Mental Trait into a Gnosis Trait (up to a full Gnosis Pool;
see the section on “Gnosis”).
Melee
You are skilled at armed combat. You are proficient in
the use of a variety of weapons, from broken bottles to
swords.
Occult
There exists, on the fringe of mundane society, a
wealth of arcane and alternative knowledge, most of
which offers enlightening insight into the nature of our
mysterious universe. This Ability allows the character to
tap that information and use it to her advantage. Ex-
amples of these uses include, but are not limited to:
identifying the use and nature of visible magicks, rites
and rituals, understanding basic fundamentals of the
occult, and having knowledge of cults, tomes and arti-
facts. Most uses of the Occult Ability require a Static
Mental Challenge based on the obscurity of the knowl-
edge, the amount of existing data, and the character’s
individual scope of understanding.
Performance
You have the gift to make your own original creations
and/or express these creations to your peers. The genius
of your creativity or the power with which you convey it
is determined by a Static Social Challenge. Some par-
ticularly sensitive types (such as Galliards and Toreador
vampires) can even become entranced by the use of this
skill. They must first be defeated in a Social Challenge,
of course. The area you are skilled in should be chosen
before play begins.
Repair
You possess a working understanding of what makes
things tick. With time, tools and parts, you can fix or
slightly alter most of the trappings of modern society.
This knowledge also allows you to excel at sabotage,
should you choose to do so. Using this Ability usually
calls for a Static Mental Challenge, the difficulty of
which depends on such factors as the item’s complexity,
the tools and parts available, the extent of the damage
and the time spent on the repairs.
Science
You have a degree of factual and practical expertise in
a single field of the hard sciences. This knowledge will
allow you to identify properties of your field, perform
experiments, fabricate items, bring about results or access
information a player could not normally utilize. A Static
Mental Challenge is necessary for all but the most trivial
uses of this skill. The difficulty depends on resources
(equipment, data, etc.) available, complexity of the task
and time. A field of study must be chosen when the
Science Ability is taken. A few examples are Physics,
Biology, Electronics and Chemistry. Other fields can be
allowed at the Storyteller’s discretion.
Scrounge
Scrounge allows the character to produce items through
connections, wits and ingenuity. Many individuals who
lack the wealth to purchase the things they desire or need
develop this Ability instead. Materials acquired with
Scrounge aren’t always brand new or exactly right and
often require some time to come by, but this Ability can
sometimes work where finance or outright theft fail. A
Static Mental or Social Challenge is necessary to use
Scrounge. Some factors that influence the difficulty of
the challenge include rarity and value of the item and
local supply and demand.


The Apocalypse
84
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
subject must forfeit the information (hopefully by
roleplaying his faux pas). To use the Ability again, you
must once again lure them into a conversation. Further-
more, Subterfuge may not reveal more than one Negative
Trait per session, and it may be used to defend against
others with Subterfuge.
Survival
You 
have 
the
knowledge and train-
ing to find food, water
and shelter in a variety
of wilderness settings.
Each successful Static
Mental or Physical
Challenge allows the
character to provide
the basic necessities for
herself or another liv-
ing creature for one
day. This Ability can
also be used to track
down someone in a
wilderness setting. The
nature and difficulty is
usually set by a Story-
teller. 
Important
factors in the chal-
lenge are abundancy or
scarcity of resources,
the time of the year,
equipment used and
type of wilderness.
Gifts
Gifts are normally
taught by spirits. A
Garou must either pe-
tition a particular spirit
to teach him its power
or ask an elder to sum-
mon that spirit and
petition for him. (Further ideas for this process can be
found in Werewolf Second Edition.) Only spirits allied
with the Garou will teach Gifts, and they will not teach
them to Garou who have not attained the proper Rank.
Sometimes a Garou may teach another Garou a Gift
he knows. Unlike spirit teaching, which takes only a
short time, this can take quite a while of training. In
addition, Gifts learned this way cost an additional expe-
rience point.
Additional note: although many Garou can affect
spirits, there is a distinction between spirits and wraiths.
A Gift that can affect a spirit will not necessarily have
any affect on a wraith.
Security
You have a degree of experience and knowledge of the
variety of ways people defend and protect things. Not only
can you counter existing security, such as locks, alarms and
guards, but you can also determine the best way to secure
items and areas. Other uses include breaking and entering,
infiltration, safecracking
and hot-wiring. Almost
all applications of the Se-
curity Ability require a
Static Mental Challenge.
Difficulty depends on the
complexity and the thor-
oughness of the defenses,
the intruder’s equipment
and the time available.
Streetwise
With this Ability,
you have a feel for the
streets. You know its
secrets, how to survive
and how to use the net-
work of personalities on
the street. You can get
information on current
events on the street, deal
with gangs and the
homeless, and survive (if
somewhat squalidly)
without an apparent in-
come. Some uses of
Streetwise require a
Static Social Challenge
influenced by such
things as composition of
the local street commu-
nity, familiarity with the
area and the current en-
vironment on the street.
Subterfuge
Subterfuge is an art of deception and intrigue that
relies on a social backdrop to work. When participating
in a social setting or conversation with a subject, you can
attempt to draw information out of him trickery and
careful probing. Information can be revealed by success-
fully using Subterfuge. This includes finding out someone’s
name, nationality, Negative Traits or friends and en-
emies. The first requirement to doing this is getting the
target to say something dealing with the desired knowl-
edge, such as entering a conversation about foreign
culture to find out where the subject is from. If you can
accomplish this, then you may proposed your true ques-
tion and initiate a Social Challenge. If you win, then the


Chapter Four: Characteristics
85
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
One Trait Down / One Trait
Penalty
If a Gift places a Garou “one Trait down” after a
challenge, the Garou has his total number of Traits
reduced when ties are resolved. If a Garou receives a “one
Trait penalty” as a result of a Gift, the victim must spend
one extra Trait when initiating a challenge. Gifts like
Smell of Man or Infest incur a Trait penalty; Gifts like
Body Wrack or Chill of the Early Frost will put a Garou
down a specific number of Traits when ties are resolved.
Breed Gifts
Homid
Basic Gifts
Persuasion— This Gift enhances the Garou’s cha-
risma and ability to deal with others in Social situations.
The character may expend a Gnosis Trait for the three
Social Traits that are added to his total in a Social
Challenge. This Gift may be used once at the beginning
of or during a Social Challenge. These bonus Traits only
last for the duration of a scene.
Smell of Man— The Garou exudes the well-known
scent of danger from her body. While man has grown dull
to this warning, animals remember it and will act accord-
ingly. A Garou may use this Gift at will, but no more than
once on the same animal. When the Gift is first acti-
vated, the character may make a Simple Test to affect all
nearby animals (20 ft. radius), including ghouled ani-
mals. If the Garou wins or ties, the animals flee
immediately and will not approach her again that day.
Even if she loses, the animal receives a one Trait penalty
in any challenge it takes against the character.
Jam Technology— The Garou can temporarily dis-
rupt the orderly logic of the Weaver upon which
technological items depend. It costs at least one Mental
Trait to activate this Gift. The Garou may choose to
affect a single visible item within 50 ft. The exact number
of Traits she must expend depends on the complexity of
the item the Garou wishes to affect.
One Gnosis Trait
computer, phone, radio
Two Gnosis Traits
firearm, car, lock
Three Gnosis Traits
lever, wrench
Intermediate Gifts
Paralyzing Stare — The Garou may freeze an oppo-
nent in place with a piercing gaze. The Garou must make
eye contact with the subject and win a Mental Chal-
lenge. If the attempt succeeds, the victim is stunned for
five minutes. A stunned person may not move, speak or
initiate a challenge. If the subject is assaulted, the spell is
broken and the victim may act normally. This Gift costs
a Gnosis Trait to use.
Disquiet— The Garou can cause a deep and profound
depression to overcome her target. By expending a Gnosis
Trait and winning a Social Challenge, the Garou pre-
vents the victim from recovering any Rage for the session
or day. Additionally, this Gift will trigger the following
Derangements (if already present) in a target: Manic-
Depression and Regression.
Tongues— By drawing upon the shared knowledge of
all intelligent beings, the Garou can attempt to under-
stand languages previously unknown to her. This requires
the expenditure of Mental Traits to use. The number of
Traits varies with the difficulty of the language. The
effects of the Gift last for one hour.
One Mental Trait
common or modern language
Two Mental Traits
obscure or heavy dialect
Three Mental Traits unknown or forgotten language
Advanced Gifts
Spirit Ward— By concentrating intensely and ex-
pending a Gnosis Trait and a variable number of Mental
Traits, the Garou sends a disruptive ripple through the
Umbra as well as in the physical world. The total number
of Mental Traits expended represents resistance against
all spirits within 100 ft.: the spirits will be down that
number of Traits in any challenges they participate in for
the next hour. (The number of Traits they have is
temporarily reduced.) If the number of Traits should
equal or exceed the highest number of Traits a spirit has
in a single area (i.e., Attributes), it must win or tie a
Simple Test or flee immediately and not return for one
full hour.
Reduce Delirium — The Garou can ease the minds of
humans, sparing them from the danger of Delirium. The
Garou and the target enter a normal Social Challenge,
except that the target may not relent; she must bid a
Social Trait. If the attempt succeeds, the effects of
Delirium are ignored. The effects of this Gift last for as
long as the Garou remains within a few feet of the subject,
up to an entire session.
Metis
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm— The stench of the Wyrm and those
close to it can be detected by a Garou with this Gift. If the
Garou’s target is a inanimate object or area, the Garou
senses the taint of the Wyrm (if present) on a Simple
Test. Otherwise, the Garou must make a Static Mental
Challenge. This Gift not only reveals Banes and the like,
but some vampires as well. Vampires with more than two
Beast Traits (see The Masquerade, Second Edition) or
of an earlier generation than 9th bear the taint of the
Wyrm. The only exception to this is a vampire in
Golconda— these Kindred never bear any trace of the
Wyrm.
Create Element — By expending a Gnosis Trait, the
Garou may create one cubic foot of one of the four basic
elements— fire, air, water or earth. The element appears
either at the Garou’s feet or in her hands.


The Apocalypse
86
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
• Fire— Causes an aggravated wound. A Mental
Challenge is required to attack someone with the flame;
if the attack is unsuccessful, the Garou suffers an aggra-
vated wound
• Air— Causes a short, slight breeze or provides an
entombed creature with a few more minutes worth of air.
• Water— Enough to extinguish a small fire or pro-
vide a days worth of drinking water for a single man, wolf
or Garou.
• Earth— A small mound of fresh, dry dirt.
Shed— Once per session or day, the Garou may
suddenly release all of her fur, making her slippery and
difficult to restrain. The Garou gains the Physical Traits:
Wiry, Lithe and Nimble. These Traits last for the dura-
tion of the day or session. In addition, the Garou also
gains the Negative Social Trait: Repugnant for the re-
mainder of the day or session.
Intermediate Gifts
Curse of Hatred— By focusing the anger and hatred
within herself and directing it verbally at her opponent,
the Garou may demoralize her foe. This power costs a
Gnosis Trait to use. Furthermore, the Garou must defeat
her opponent in a Social Challenge. If the attacker wins,
her foe loses a Willpower Trait and a Rage Trait for the
remainder of the session or one day (whichever is longer).
Grovel — When suffering at the hands of another
Garou, the possessor of this Gift may draw upon the
instinctive surrender reflex of the wolves to force an
attacking Garou to stop offensive actions against the
user. If the Garou spends a Gnosis Trait and wins a Social
Challenge, the attacking Garou must back off and end
her attacks. This effect lasts for one hour or until the user
makes a move against the Garou who spared her (which-
ever comes first). The use of this Gift is not particularly
glorious and could result in the loss of a Renown Trait at
the next moot.
Mental Speech— By expending a Mental Trait for
every dozen words sent, the Garou may project a Mental
message to a person with whom she is familiar. At a
Narrator’s discretion, this Gift might work on a stranger
if the Garou has sufficient information about her target.
The range of this Gift is citywide or about ten miles. Note
that passing notes and employing the aid of a Storyteller
are acceptable ways to represent the use of this Gift.
Advanced Gifts
Wither Limb — By spending a Gnosis Trait and
winning a Physical Challenge with her foe, the Garou
may reduce one of the foe’s limbs to a useless parody of its
former self. The victim suffers a wound and gains the
Negative Physical Trait: Lame. A Garou injured in this
manner requires ten minutes to heal the limb and remove
the Negative Trait. (A vampire can recover from this by
spending a Blood Trait to heal.) A normal human af-
fected by this Gift may very well be crippled for life.
Gift of the Porcupine— If the Garou needs them, she
can grow long barbed quills from her body like those of a
porcupine. If the Garou wins a Physical Challenge in
unarmed combat against a foe, the Garou can try to win
a follow-up Simple Test to inflict an additional wound.
The Garou may make this follow-up challenge even if her
foe won the initial combat challenge, but in this case,
only if the foe was also unarmed (having claws does not
count as being armed). This Gift requires the expendi-
ture of a Gnosis Trait and lasts for ten minutes.
Madness — The Garou can cause an extreme, but
thankfully temporary, insanity in a victim’s mind. She
must first expend a Gnosis Trait and then defeat the
target in a Social Challenge. If successful, the victim
gains a random Derangement she does not already pos-
sess; the duration is one day or the rest of the session.
Totem Gift — In an act of desperation, the Garou can
plead to her totem for aid. The totem always exacts a
price for this boon, in addition to the expenditure of a
Gnosis Trait. Calling upon one’s totem always requires a
Storyteller. The exact nature of aid that the totem is
willing to give is up to the Storyteller.
Lupus
Basic Gifts
Heightened Senses— This Gift allows the Garou to
try to overhear distant conversations, recognize subtle
scents and detect moving targets cloaked by Gifts or
vampiric Disciplines by winning a Mental Challenge.
This added sensitivity can be a disadvantage if the Garou
is exposed to very intense stimuli.
Totem
Type of Assistance
Bear
Peacekeeping, healing, strength in war
Coyote
Trickery, cunning, stealth
Dana
Faerie or Umbral matters
Pegasus
Defense of sacred places
Rat
Stealth, strength in numbers
Unicorn
Health, healing, peacekeeping
Stag
Help during hard times, sensing danger
Fenris
Help with bloodthirsty combat
Cockroach
Adaptability and survival
Griffin
Swiftness, alertness during battle
Thunder
Subtlety, strategy and power
Owl
Stealth, silence and quiet
Falcon
Honor, leadership and nobility
Chimera
Riddles, enigmas, solving problems
Uktena
Defense, secret lore or knowledge
Wendigo
Help with missions of vengeance


Chapter Four: Characteristics
87
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Scent of the True Form — By inhaling the scent of a
nearby subject (someone within a few feet), the Garou
may attempt to ascertain its true nature. Vampires,
faeries, mummies and other Garou may be detected this
way by defeating them in a Mental Challenge. If this Gift
is used on a mage or ghoul, the subject wins all ties,
regardless of who has the most Traits.
Catfeet — The Garou gains the preternatural agility
of this Gift’s namesake. By spending a Gnosis Trait, she
either avoids damage from falls of 100 feet or less or gains
the Physical Traits: Athletic, Graceful and Nimble.
These Traits can only be used in challenges that deal
with balance and agility (not combat) and must be used
within the hour or they are lost.
Intermediate Gifts
Detect Spirit— The Garou gains the ability to sense
the presence and nature of unseen spirits (and reveal
disguised ones). The Garou must first think to use the
Gift, however, and must defeat her target in a Mental
Challenge.
Beast Life— With the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait
and a successful Simple Test, the Garou may call forth a
group of a single sort of animal (subject to the availability
of the animal). They must be given a specific and short
term mission or they will disperse. Missions could include
attacking an enemy, guarding a place for an hour or
destroying an object. The group acts as one creature.
Rats, insects, snakes, wolves, dogs or cats can be
summoned in this way.
Gnaw— The Garou’s jaws and teeth take on a super-
natural strength and resilience. She may chew through
and destroy objects by chewing on them (remember that
objects have Traits and Health Levels, just like people).
If the Garou with this Gift declares she is biting an
opponent and succeeds, she may try to win a second
Simple Test to inflict a second wound.
Advanced Gifts
Venom— The Garou can cause her bite to become
coated with a deadly poison. If the Garou successfully
bites her foe, she may expend additional Physical Traits
to further wound her foe. For every three Traits ex-
pended, the victim suffers an additional normal wound.
This Gift does not affect Kindred.
Elemental Gift— In accordance with an ancient
agreement, a Garou with this Gift may call upon and
expect the aid of elemental forces. To do so, the character
must expend a Gnosis Trait and win a Simple Test. Of
course, there must be a plentiful supply of the appropriate
elements nearby for this Gift to work. Use the following
profiles for elemental forces:
Elementals
• Fire Elemental— Brutal x 2, Ferocious,
Quick, Energetic; Burn Charm: a fire attack
requires a Physical Challenge and inflicts aggra-
vated wounds. If a fire and water elemental
touch, they are both destroyed.
• Water Elemental— Enduring, Resilient,
Tenacious, Vigorous, Lithe, Slow
Engulf Charm: if the elemental wins a Physi-
cal Challenge, a breathing opponent will suffer
a wound from suffocation.
• Earth Elemental— Brawny, Enduring,
Tough, Rugged, Stalwart, Lethargic
Entomb Charm: once the elemental wins a
Physical Challenge against a foe, that foe is
trapped and may not flee or engage others, and
it can only fight the elemental from within.
• Air Elemental— Energetic, Graceful, Lithe,
Quick, Vigorous.
Windstorm Charm: surrounds the summoner,
deflecting arrows and thrown objects. The
summoner’s foes must first win a Physical Chal-
lenge with the elemental to close with the
Garou.
Note: Elementals are mindless— they do not
engage in Social or Mental Challenges. Fur-
thermore, elementals can only suffer three
wounds before being disrupted. They do not
suffer from wound penalties.
Auspice Gifts
Ragabash
Basic Gifts
Scent of Running Water— The Garou may expend a
Mental Trait and mask her scent. A foe attempting to use
an olfactory sensing power, such as Heightened Senses,
must first win a Mental Challenge. The effects of this
Gift last for one hour.
Blur of the Milky Eye— The Garou can obscure her
presence from others. To activate this Gift, the player
must expend a Mental Trait and cross her arms in front
of herself. At this point, other characters must ignore the
hidden Garou and act normally. However, as soon as the
Garou speaks or interacts with her environment (she can
still move around), the glamour is shattered and she is
visible to all. Otherwise, the power lasts for one hour.
This Gift only affects other beings, not machines. Height-
ened Senses will discover someone using this Gift with a
successful Mental Challenge. The power may not be
activated if the Garou is being watched by others.


The Apocalypse
88
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Advanced Gifts
Fool’s Luck— The Garou with this Gift has luck on
her side. She may retest, at no cost, any test she loses as
long as it involves trickery, coercion or stealth. A chal-
lenge may only be retested once in this fashion. If the
Garou loses in this second test, the challenge may not be
retested in any other manner. If a Storyteller rules that
the Garou is abusing
the spirit of this Gift, it
will fail utterly. Luck is
capricious and doesn’t
like to be cheated...
Luna’s Blessing—
On nights when the
moon shines openly in
the sky, a Garou with
this Gift may petition
Luna to spare him the
agony of silver. By
spending a Gnosis
Trait, the Garou no
longer receives aggra-
vated damage from
silver. The effect lasts
until morning. In ad-
dition, if an attacker
loses a combat chal-
lenge against the
Garou while wielding
a silver weapon, the
Gifted Garou may call
for a second Physical
Challenge. If the
Garou wins, her oppo-
nent takes a normal
wound, unless the op-
ponent is also a Garou,
in which case the dam-
age is aggravated.
Whelp Body— The
Garou may use this Gift
to drive strength and vitality from her opponent’s body.
Some Garou attacked in this way will only be satisfied
with the death of the wielder of the Gift. For each Gnosis
Trait spent by the Garou (declared before the challenge
begins), her foe loses two Physical Traits. This requires a
successful Mental Challenge, and the effects lasts for one
full hour.
Violation— The Garou with this Gift can reach deep
into to the mind of an opponent and shatter his confi-
dence. The Garou must first win a Physical Challenge (in
which no damage is inflicted) to touch her foe solidly. At
this point, she must spend a Gnosis Trait and make a
Simple Test. If she wins this test, she may make another
and continue to do so until she loses or ties a test. The
Taking the Forgotten— This Gift makes the Garou a
most daunting thief. If she can steal an item from an
opponent (with Streetwise or a Mental Challenge), she
can then expend a Gnosis Trait to activate this Gift. The
user and the victim then enter a secondary Mental
Challenge. If the Garou wins, the victim forgets he ever
had the item and will forget that the Ragabash stole from
him. If violence is part of
the theft, this Gift may
not be used.
Open Seal— By ex-
pending two Mental
Traits, the Garou may
open a single, mundane
lock or closure. The af-
fected item shows no sign
of tampering or the like
(except for the fact that
it is now is open). Magi-
cal or more complex locks
will require a Mental
Challenge with a Story-
teller.
Alter Scent— The
Garou may replace her
scent with any scent she
has experienced before by
expending a Mental
Trait. A foe with Height-
ened Senses is allowed a
single Simple Test (no
Traits are expended). If
the foe wins the test, she
uncovers her prey’s true
scent and cannot be
fooled again for either the
next day, the next
evening or the next ses-
sion. Otherwise, the foe
falls for the deception for
the same amount of time.
Intermediate Gifts
Blissful Ignorance— The Garou’s powers of obfusca-
tion have been developed so well that she can even fool
electronic devices and spirits. Otherwise, the Gift works
just like Blur of the Milky Eye and can still be uncovered
by Heightened Senses.
Open the Moon Bridge— The Garou has the awe-
some power to open an existing Moon Bridge without the
aid of the caern’s totem spirit. A Pathstone fetish is still
required, and the Gnosis required to open the bridge
must either be supplied by the Garou or by the caern itself
(if possible). In all other ways, this Gift functions as the
Rite of the Opened Bridge.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
89
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
victim may not spend Willpower or Rage for a length of
time dependent on the number of tests the Garou won.
Number of Tests Won:
No Tests
No effect, Gnosis wasted
One Test
Next challenge only
Two Tests
Ten minutes
Three Tests
One hour
Four Tests
One day/night or session
(whichever is shorter)
Theurge
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm— As the Metis power.
Spirit Speech— The Garou with this Gift has learned
the spirit tongue and may converse with any spirits near
enough to hear her. This, of course, is no guarantee that
the spirit will be cooperative or even listen to the char-
acter.
Mother’s Touch— The Garou’s touch can act as a
cool, soothing poultice that drains away pain and heals
the injuries of others of his kind. The Garou need only
touch the subject, concentrate for one minute and ex-
pend a Gnosis Trait. A single wound, whether aggravated
or non-aggravated, will be completely healed. The Gift
may not be used on the same person more than once per
day, and the Garou may not use his healing power on
himself.
Sight from Beyond— The Garou with this Gift is
subject to unexpected and uncontrolled visions of the
future. Sometimes, these visions and dreams warn her of
imminent danger or herald great events. More often than
not, however, these visions are cryptic and unclear. The
Garou must make of them what she will. Once per
session, the Storyteller may opt to give the Garou a
strange, enigmatic preview of a possible outcome to the
evening’s play.
Name the Spirit— The Garou has a certain mystical
adeptness at identifying the different types of spirits and
their abilities. By spending a Mental Trait and winning
or tying a Simple Test, she may learn the type, nature and
powers of a single spirit that is present.
Intermediate Gifts
Command Spirit— The Garou can issue a simple, yet
compelling command to a spirit. The subject must be
able to hear and understand the Garou. The command
itself cannot be blatantly suicidal, must be within the
subject’s ability to perform and cannot have effects that
last longer than ten minutes. If a spirit is unwilling, it
must first be defeated in a Mental Challenge. This Gift
costs one Gnosis Trait to use.
Exorcism— The Garou can drive spirits from an area,
even persistent spirits or spirits bound to items or loca-
tions. A Willpower Trait must be expended to make an
Exorcism attempt. If the spirit has not been bound,
driving it off is merely a matter of defeating it in a Mental
Challenge. If it is bound, however, it must still be
defeated in a Mental Challenge, but it also receives a
number of free Traits to bid equal to the number of Traits
assigned to the fetish that houses it. The Garou may not
attempt to use this Gift on the same spirit more than once
per day.
Pulse of the Invisible— The Garou gains a dramatic
insight into the spirit world and its inhabitants. She
figuratively has her finger on the pulse of the spirit world.
Any time a drastic change takes place, she will know it,
but will not necessarily know the nature of the disrup-
tion. Furthermore, she may converse with these spirits at
will. Storytellers should make characters with this Gift
aware of any drastic increase, decrease or change in the
behavior or activity of nearby spirits. For example, with
a Simple Test, the Garou could detect if a spirit was just
summoned or if someone has just stepped sideways.
Gaining this information generally requires a Simple
Test.
Grasp the Beyond— The Garou can reach through
the Gauntlet to place objects in the Umbra. The larger
the object, the greater the exertion from the Garou.
One Gnosis
Small (hand-held object)
Two Gnosis
Medium sized (rifle)
Three Gnosis
Large (man-sized)
The Garou must have complete possession of an
object to use this Gift on it. Furthermore, conscious
subjects may not be affected by this Gift at all. The
object’s position relative to the real world does not
change (i.e., this Gift does not provide the Garou with an
extra-dimensional duffel bag.)
Advanced Gifts
Spirit Drain— The Garou can tap into the personal
energy reserves of a spirit and disperse those energies.
The Garou must expend a Gnosis Trait to activate this
Gift. If she can defeat a spirit in a Mental Challenge, she
may continue to attempt to win further Simple Tests
until she ties or loses. For every two tests won (rounding
down), including the initial Mental Challenge, the spirit
loses a point of power and the Garou gains a temporary
Willpower Trait. Traits gained in this manner are the
first to be spent and will be lost if they are not used within
one hour.
Feral Lobotomy— The Garou can reach the part of an
opponent’s mind that houses the ancient bestial soul that
resides in all of us and brings that animalistic nature to
the forefront. The Garou must first expend a Gnosis Trait
and defeat her foe in a Mental Challenge. If she succeeds,
she may then expend a Willpower Trait and permanently
transform one of the victim’s Mental Traits into a Nega-
tive Trait. The victim may choose the Mental Trait that
is transformed and the Negative Trait it becomes. The
victim may choose from the following Negative Traits:
Feral (Social), Bestial (Social), Impatient (Mental),
Shortsighted (Mental), Submissive (Mental) or Violent


The Apocalypse
90
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
(Mental). This Gift does not give the Garou any knowl-
edge of which Trait has been transformed or what it has
become. Mental Traits lost and Negative Traits gained in
this manner may be restored with the expenditure of
experience.
Malleable Spirit— Many spirits are fickle and mercu-
rial by nature. The Garou with this Gift can capitalize on
that flaw in an attempt to completely warp the spirit to
suit her needs. The Garou must expend a Gnosis Trait
and overcome the spirit in a Mental Challenge. If the
Garou wins, she may attempt to win further Simple Tests
until she loses or ties. The total number of tests won
determines the degree to which the spirit can be altered.
Characteristics
(Traits, Abilities)
Role
(type of elemental or spirit)
Disposition
(benevolent, hostile, uncooperative)
Spirit Vessel— The Garou can draw upon the powers
of the spirits of the Umbra and use them as her own. The
Garou must expend a Gnosis Trait and win a Static
Mental Challenge (the number of Traits equals the area’s
Gauntlet). If the Garou wins, she has gained the power
for one hour. If she ties, she has failed and may not
attempt to use the Gift again this evening. If she loses the
test, she has become possessed by a Bane. A Storyteller
will then instruct the Garou on the appropriate actions
and behavior.
Philodox
Basic Gifts
Resist Pain— By expending a Gnosis Trait, the Garou
may ignore wound penalties for the duration of a single
conflict.
Truth of Gaia— The Garou may enter a Mental
Challenge with an opponent to determine if the last
statement the opponent made was true.
Scent of the True Form— As per the Lupus Gift.
Strength of Purpose— Whenever the Garou is deal-
ing with a challenge that affects or deals with the very
core of her auspice or tribe, she may expend a Gnosis
Trait to gain two Willpower Traits. These Traits must be
spent immediately or they are lost. Furthermore, she
must spend the Traits in a situation that also deals with
the essential nature of her auspice or tribe. This Gift may
only be used once per session.
Intermediate Gifts
Call to Duty— The Garou can call a spirit to aid her
in times of need. By spending a Gnosis Trait and winning
a Simple Test, the Garou can beseech a spirit for help.
The Spirit Keeper (one of the Narrators) determines the
time the spirit takes to arrive, the type of spirit and its
ability to serve, but in general, only minor spirits will
answer this call and serve the Garou. This Gift may not
be used more than once per session.
King of the Beasts— The Garou is able to call upon
the aid of a single animal type (canines, big cats, rodents,
etc.) that is chosen when this Gift is learned. Specifi-
cally, the Garou can control a single animal of her chosen
type that is within sight. The Garou must first expend a
Gnosis Trait and win or tie a Social Challenge with the
animal. This Gift will only affect normal animals, not
Garou in Lupus form, Kindred in animal form, ghouled
animals, etc. The control lasts for one hour.
Weak Arm— A perceptive Philodox with this Gift
can gain valuable insights about a foe’s martial prowess
by merely observing his style. By witnessing a single
combative challenge in which the subject is engaged, the
Garou may attempt to ascertain the style’s inherent
strengths and weaknesses. If the Garou wins a Mental
Challenge with the subject, she gains three free Physical
Traits to use against the subject in their next combative
challenge. These Traits are expended regardless of whether
the challenge is won. In addition, the challenge must
take place within the next hour or the Traits are lost. The
Garou may not use this Gift on the same individual more
than once per session.
Roll Over— The Garou can exude a powerful aura of
power and command. If anyone should attempt an offen-
sive action against the Gifted Garou, the Garou may opt
to expend a Gnosis Trait and demand a Social Challenge
before he proceeds. If the attacker succeeds, he is not
hampered by the attack or for the rest of the evening. If
the attacker should fail, however, he may not attack the
Gifted Garou for the next hour. Furthermore, a defeated
foe who returns in the same session must still win a Social
Challenge to attack the Garou, who is not required to
spend Gnosis. Any offensive action by the defending
Garou negates this Gift’s effects. The Gift’s range ex-
tends about four paces from the Gifted Garou’s body.
Advanced Gifts
Take the True Form— This Gift allows the Garou to
draw forth a shapechanger’s true form. By spending a
Gnosis Trait and winning a Mental Challenge with the
foe, the Garou can force another Garou to instantly
assume her breed form. This Gift will also force a vampire
using the Discipline: Beast Form to instantly revert to
human form. In neither case may the shapechanger
assume a different form until ten minutes have passed.
Wall of Granite— The Garou may instantly erect a
stony barrier by expending a Gnosis Trait. This barrier is
three feet thick, up to nine feet tall and up to nine feet
wide. The dimensions of the wall can be adjusted, except
for the width. (The total size is then 243 cubic feet... more
or less.) The wall has the Traits: Stalwart x 10 and can
suffer five wounds before being destroyed. It may not be
summoned above the ground floor in a building or an area
already occupied by an object. The wall returns to the
ground after one hour.
Geas — By catching a subject’s eye, the Garou can
implant powerful subconscious commands in the victim’s
mind. The Garou must first expend a Gnosis Trait and
defeat the subject in Mental Challenge. These com-


Chapter Four: Characteristics
91
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
mands may not be suicidal and cannot directly endanger
the victim. Furthermore, they consist of a trigger and an
effect, both of which must be easily understandable by
the subject.
Examples include:
Trigger:
Seeing a item, person or place
Hearing a word or sound
Performing a certain action
Noting the passage of a length of time
Suggestion:
Behave in a bizarre or inappropriate manner
Deliver a spoken message
Experience a single emotion
Recall planted information
The suggestion cannot take more than ten minutes to
perform. Until the trigger occurs, the subject has no
knowledge of the Geas’ presence. Once the suggestion
has been triggered, the effects of the Geas are gone.
Galliard
Basic Gifts
Beast Life — As per the Lupus Gift.
Call of the Wyld — The Garou can issue forth a great
howl that is audible to those nearby, but the affects will
travel even beyond that, reaching Garou miles away in
some cases. Most often, it is used to summon others to a
moot or herald other important events, but it can serve
as a general distress call (the Garou equivalent of firing
a flare pistol into the sky). This last function of the Gift
is quite embarrassing to Garou, and the user could lose a
Renown Trait (depending upon the reason for the call, of
course). A Garou wishing to use this Gift should contact
a Storyteller. She will instruct the character to expend a
Gnosis Trait and record the nature of the howl (which
must be brief and to the point).
Mindspeak — The Garou can forge a telepathic
communication between herself and other willing par-
ticipants within visual range by expending a Mental
Trait for each subject to be included. Other creatures,
such as a vampire with the Discipline: Telepathy may
listen in if she can defeat the Gift user in a Mental
Challenge.
Intermediate Gifts
Call of the Wyrm— The Garou can issue forth a
snide, taunting howl that beckons to the minions of the
Wyrm. It costs one Gnosis Trait to use, and any minions
of the Wyrm who do not win a Simple Test are obligated
to go quickly (but not mindlessly) to the calling Garou.
If they win, they may still come, but under their own
terms and at their leisure. The Gift has a range of about
100 feet. The Storyteller in charge of Spirits and the
Umbra (the Spirit Keeper) must be contacted to use this
Gift.
Distractions— The Garou can harry and annoy his
opponent to such a degree that her concentration in
other matters suffers for it. If the Garou can defeat the
subject in a Mental Challenge, the subject suffers a two
Trait penalty on her next challenge. (The subject must
risk three Traits to begin her next challenge.) This
challenge must take place in the next ten minutes. This
Gift may not be used on the same individual more than
once an hour, nor are its effects cumulative.
Song of Rage— This power unleashes a fearsome,
bestial nature in its host. The Garou must spend a Gnosis
Trait and defeat the subject in a Mental Challenge in
order to use this Gift. If successful, the subject gains an
active temporary Derangement and flies into an uncon-
trollable rage for the next ten minutes. The Garou
immediately regains one Rage Trait. This Gift seems to
work equally well against other Garou, Kindred and
humans. If the Garou fails, she may not attempt to use
this Gift on the subject again for the remainder of this
session.
Eyes of the Cobra— The Garou can lull the subject
into a docile and amiable state. Eye contact is required to
use this Gift. At this point, the Garou may expend a
Gnosis Trait and attempt to win a Social Challenge with
the target. If the Garou is successful, the target must
remain civil and non-confrontational as long as the
Garou maintains eye contact. If the victim is attacked by
any source, the Gift’s power is immediately broken.
Song of the Siren— The Garou can sing an entranc-
ing melody that lulls the unwary into a passive stupor. If
the Garou defeats the subject in a Social Challenge, the
victim may do nothing else but peacefully listen to the
Galliard’s singing. The player must actually sing clearly
and relatively continually or the Gift automatically fails.
The effects of this Gift are broken if the subject is
assaulted in any way, if the Garou stops singing, if he can
no longer be clearly heard, or if ten minutes have past.
Advanced Gifts
Bridge Walker— The Galliard can open a minor
Moon Bridge at will without the benefit of a caern or the
Rite of the Opened Bridge. By spending a Gnosis Trait,
the Garou disappears, only to reappear a split-second
later a short distance away (only foes with Gifts that
increase speed can attempt to prevent the use of this
Gift). Once the Gnosis is spent, the player may take
fifteen paces in any horizontal direction she wishes. The
character is not hampered at all by Physical barriers, but
magical ones will cause her to reappear immediately if
she attempts to cross them. At the end of her journey, the
character must make a Simple Test; if she loses, she has
gained the attention of a Bane, which appears with her
and attacks the character immediately.
Head Games— The Garou can drastically alter the
subject’s personality. By spending a Gnosis Trait and
defeating the subject in a Mental Challenge, the Garou
can assign the character a new, temporary Demeanor.


The Apocalypse
92
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
metal’s general presence. The Garou would have to
defeat the subject in a Mental Challenge to determine
the silver’s exact whereabouts. A character must then
reveal to the Garou the presence of any silver items she
possesses.
Intermediate Gifts
Stoking Fury’s Furnace — The Garou may gain a
Trait of Rage each time
she is wounded.
True Fear — With a
piercing gaze or bone-
chilling howl, the
Ahroun can drive her
foe into a blind panic.
The Gift costs one
Gnosis Trait to use, and
the Garou must win a
Social 
Challenge
against the subject. If
the Garou is successful,
the victim (the charac-
ter, not the player) must
flee as quickly as he is
able for the next ten
minutes (Running is
not 
permitted 
in
Mind’s Eye Theater
the subject should walk
quickly away). Further-
more, the victim may
not initiate any chal-
lenges against the user
of the Gift for the next
hour. If the subject
wins, she has faced her
fears and may not be
the target of the Garou’s
Gift of True Fear for
the remainder of the
session.
Silver Claws— By
spending a Gnosis
Trait, the Garou’s claws inflict the searing agony of pure
silver. This Gift can only be activated during a challenge,
but do become active before the actual test takes place.
If successful, the Garou’s victim will suffer just as if hit by
a silver weapon. If the Gift user is successful in the
challenge, she receives one free Simple Test to cause an
additional aggravated wound. This Gift lasts for one
challenge.
Advanced Gifts
Strength of Will— The Ahroun’s powers of inspiring
confidence in her packmates during battle can reach epic
proportions. By expending one of her own Willpower
Traits, the Garou may make a Mental Challenge. For
every two Mental Traits the Garou wishes to risk, a
The effects of this Gift last for the entire session. The
subject may spend a Willpower Trait to ignore the new
Demeanor for ten minutes.
Ahroun
Basic Gifts
Razor Claws — The Garou can hone his claws to a
razor sharpness by
scratching them across
a hard surface, such as a
stone floor or metal
dumpster. By spending
a Rage Trait, the Garou
gains two Sharp Traits
for the duration of his
next combat. These
Traits also count to-
wards the character’s
total number of Traits.
This Gift is only usable
in Crinos form, and the
benefits are lost if the
character assumes an-
other form.
Inspiration— The
powerful figure of an
Ahroun serves to urge
other Garou on to acts of
greatness, especially if the
Ahroun has this Gift. By
spending a Gnosis Trait,
the Garou may allow any
of his fellow Garou nearby
to retry a test. The Garou
may not benefit from his
own Gift.
The Falling Touch—
The Garou can send his
foe sprawling to the
ground with but a touch.
The Garou must spend a
Gnosis Trait and defeat the subject in a Physical Chal-
lenge in order for this Gift to work. If the attempt is
successful, the victim must sit down on the ground for a
full fifteen seconds (count them out loud, please) and
may not initiate any Physical Challenges during that
time. They may defend themselves normally, however.
Opponents with Celerity or Speed of Thought cut this
time to eight seconds. Rapidity or Speed Beyond Thought
reduces this penalty to four seconds. A vampire with the
Discipline: Fleetness is unaffected by this.
Sense Silver— With a disdainful snort, the Garou can
uncover the foul scent of the bane metal on an indi-
vidual. At a distance of up to 20 feet, the Garou can
detect whether or not a person is carrying anything made
of silver. Winning or tying a Simple Test will reveal the


Chapter Four: Characteristics
93
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Willpower Trait is generated that any member of the
Ahroun’s pack may use freely. This pool may only be used
during the current combat encounter, and any remaining
after this time are lost. This Gift may only be used once
per session.
Kiss of Helios— The blessings of the day star are on
any Garou with this Gift, for the Garou is totally immune
to mundane flame. It costs a Gnosis Trait to activate this
Gift, which lasts for one hour, but during that time, the
Garou cannot be damaged by ordinary flame and ignores
the first wound inflicted by magical flame, napalm or
similar attacks. Furthermore, if the Garou wishes, she
may immolate herself without suffering harm. However,
she does cause aggravated damage with blows inflicted by
her hands.
Tribal Gifts
Black Furies
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm — As the Metis Gift.
Heightened Senses — As the Lupus Gift.
Sense of the Prey — As the Ragabash Gift.
Intermediate Gifts
Song of the Siren — As the Galliard Gift.
Coup de Grace — The Garou with this Gift has the
ability to land telling blows regardless of her foe’s might.
This Gift can be activated by spending a Gnosis Trait in
the midst of a challenge before the actual test is per-
formed. Even if the Garou loses the test, her foe suffers a
wound (no additional damage may be added to this
wound). The Fury still loses any Traits bid if she lost the
test and still suffers the appropriate damage.
Wasp Talons — The Garou’s claws become a lethal
ranged attack. The Garou can propel her claws at terri-
fying speeds as if they were fired from a ranged weapon.
Treat the barrage of claws as a shotgun blast with no
Negative Traits. This power can only be used in Crinos
form, and, while she waits ten minutes afterwards for her
claws to regenerate, the Garou may not use her claws or
claw-based powers.
Advanced Gifts
Body Wrack — The Garou can create crippling pain
throughout an opponent’s body, greatly disabling him.
To use this Gift, the Garou must spend a Gnosis Trait and
defeat the subject in a Mental Challenge. If successful,
the victim will be four Traits down on his next challenge.
(That is, he will be four Traits down if the players have
to compare Traits.) In no case will this Gift lower the
victim to less than one Trait.
Bacchantes’ Rage— This maiming Gift can only be
used in the deep wilderness, but it often ensures that the
Furies will have the ability to defend those secluded
spots. While this Gift is in effect, the Garou benefits from
a number of effects. She ignores the first wound scored
upon her, and she wins all ties in any tests involving
melee combat without resorting to comparing Traits. It
costs one Gnosis to use this Gift, and it lasts for the
duration of the conflict.
Gorgon’s Gaze— The Garou takes on a horrifying
visage like that of the mythological Gorgon, in appear-
ance as well as in effect. The Garou must make eye
contact with her victim to attempt to petrify him, but
once she does, the two engage in a Mental Challenge. If
successful, the Garou may attempt to win a Simple Test
and continue to attempt to win Simple Tests until she
loses or ties. If three Simple Tests are won, the victim is
completely turned to stone (gaining five extra wound
levels and five Stalwart Traits). Only powerful magicks
or the intervention of a great spirit will reverse the
process. Winning less than three tests will result in a
partial ossification of the victim’s body. In mortals, this
will permanently cripple the poor soul. Regenerating
creatures will recover from this “partial petrifaction” as if
each successful Simple Test was an aggravated wound. In
the meantime, they may not move or engage in Physical
activities. They do benefit from two temporary extra
wound levels and two Stalwart Traits. This Gift cost two
Gnosis Traits per use. Any extra Traits or wound levels
are lost when the victim recovers.
Bone Gnawers
Basic Gifts
Scent of Sweet Honey— The Garou can lay down a
scent upon an object that insects and all manner of
vermin find irresistible. This Gift costs one Gnosis to use.
An object affected by this will be infested in five minutes.
If used on a creature, the creature is allowed a Physical
Challenge (against three Annoying Traits). If the victim
loses, she suffers a one Trait penalty on any further
challenges for the next hour.
Odious Aroma— By expending a Gnosis Trait, a
Garou can put his natural defensive pheromone glands
into a sort of overdrive. Anyone who can smell who
approaches within ten feet of the Garou will be so
overpowered by her stench that they will begin all
challenges with the Garou with a one Trait penalty (that
is, any opponent must spend two Traits to begin a
challenge). Those using Heightened Senses at the time
will suffer an additional one Trait penalty. The Garou
using this power immediately gains the Negative Social
Traits: Repugnant x 3. The effects of this Gift last for
thirty minutes.
Intermediate Gifts
Blissful Ignorance— As the Ragabash power.
Gift of the Skunk— The Garou can quickly develop
a set of musk glands similar to those of a skunk. She can
use this musk to spray a subject. This Gift costs a Gnosis
Trait for each use, and the Garou must win a Physical


The Apocalypse
94
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Challenge to hit with the jet of foul-smelling liquid. If
successful, the target suffers from the Negative Social
Traits: Repugnant x 2, which can be called by any
individual who can smell her. Furthermore, if the subject
can smell (as is the case with a vampire with Heightened
Senses), the subject may not initiate a challenge for ten
minutes.
Gift of the Termite— The Garou may use this Gift to
destroy objects made of wood. The objects rot and weaken
until, in seconds, nothing remains except a pile of moist
sawdust and splinters. This power costs a Gnosis Trait to
use. The Garou must win or tie a Mental Challenge, the
difficulty of which depends on the size of the object the
Garou wishes to effect.
One Trait
stake, bat, cane
Two Traits
door
Three Traits
10' x 10' wooden floor
Four Traits   small tree
Attunement— While in an urban setting, the Garou
can petition the local spirits for information on her
immediate surroundings with this Gift. Using this Gift
requires the Garou to expend a Gnosis Trait and win a
Simple Test. If she succeeds, she may ask one of the
following questions and can expect an honest answer
(unless the only spirits nearby are Wyrm spirits, who will
always mislead the Garou). The Spirit Keeper (one of the
Narrators) must be contacted to use this Gift.
Typical questions include:
• What is the general population of (a type of
supernatural creature) in this area? (Note, however, that
some very powerful creatures cannot be uncovered by
these means.)
• Is (a person of a certain description) nearby?
• Are there any (objects of a general type) nearby?
• Roughly how many people have passed by (or have
been in) this area in the last day?
...and so on. The key is to ask general questions about
general subjects.
Infest— The Garou may call together a large number
of a specific type of vermin in a certain nearby area. The
creatures merely arrive and then react in the most in-
stinctual manner possible. Possible vermin include:
roaches, ants, rats, flies and so on. The area infested
determines the Gnosis cost. Normal humans and animals
must make a Mental Challenge at a difficulty of five
Traits to bring themselves to remain in an infested area.
Small room or car interior
One Gnosis Trait
Average home
Two Gnosis Trait
Department store
Three Gnosis Trait
Advanced Gifts
Survivor— The Garou can stand up to some of the
most destructive forces known to man and walk away
from them intact. Whenever the Garou suffers damage
that would normally result in her death, she may perma-
nently expend three Physical Traits or a Willpower Trait
to avoid the killing damage altogether (although this will
not remove other damage).
Children of Gaia
Basic Gifts
Resist Pain— As the Philodox Gift
Mother’s Touch— As the Theurge Gift.
Calm— By expending a two Social Traits, the Garou
may take away one of a target’s Rage Traits. (The Trait
is gone, but it can be regained as normal. No, the
frustration of losing a Rage Trait will not cause it to be
regained. Nice try.)
Intermediate Gifts
Luna’s Armor— The Garou can channel the fortify-
ing energies of Luna into her body for a short time. For
every two Gnosis Traits expended, the Garou gains an
extra wound level. Gnosis spent in this way may not be
recovered until the Gift has been used up or ends. The
effects of this Gift last until the wounds are suffered
(damage is applied to the Gift’s wound levels first) or the
end of the session.
Eyes of the Cobra— As the Galliard Gift.
Spirit Friend— The Garou can pacify and placate
spirits to a degree. For each Gnosis Trait expended, the
Garou gains three additional Social Traits when dealing
with spirits. The Gift lasts for one hour and is not
cumulative with other similar Gifts.
The Guilty Mind— The Garou can draw forth a state
of guilt or remorse in her target. The Gift requires the
Garou to expend a Gnosis Trait and defeat the target in
a Social Challenge. If successful, the target gains the
active Derangement: Undying Remorse for the next
thirty minutes.
Serenity— The Garou can spread a soothing calm
upon her target. The Garou expends a Gnosis Trait and
must win a Mental Challenge with the subject. If the user
of the Gift wins, the target may not spend any Rage for
the next thirty minutes.
Beast Life— As the Lupus power.
Advanced Gifts
Unicorn’s Grace— The Garou can attain a state of
balance and calm not usually found in Garou. By expend-
ing a Gnosis Trait, the Gift user can no longer frenzy
(voluntarily or otherwise) for the remainder of the
evening. However, she may not spend more than one
Rage Trait in any one conflict or at any time.
Halo of the Sun— The Garou projects a glowing
nimbus of near-blinding sunlight from her body. This
Gift costs three Gnosis to use and lasts for ten minutes.
The Garou causes aggravated damage with her bare
hands even in Homid or Crinos forms. She wins all ties.
Vampires within ten feet of the Garou will suffer three
aggravated wounds every full minute (or one aggravated
wound if they merely pass through the effect). Each level


Chapter Four: Characteristics
95
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
allows the attacker to attempt to win or tie a Simple Test
to avoid the wound.
Fianna
Basic Gifts
Resist Toxin— The Garou may call upon incredible
recuperative powers to stop diseases and poisons that may
enter her body. When affected (or infected) by a toxin or
disease, the Garou may spend a Gnosis Trait to cancel the
effects of the invading substance. In the case of extremely
potent or magical diseases or toxins, the Storyteller may
call for a Physical Challenge of some sort.
Persuasion — As the Homid Gift.
Intermediate Gifts
Howl of the Banshee— The Garou issues a terrifying
howl that evokes a primal fear in everyone nearby. This
power costs one Gnosis Trait to use. When used, each
individual within twenty feet must win or tie in a Simple
Test (at no cost to the user of the Gift) or flee in terror.
The victims may stop their flight once they’re out of sight
of the Garou, but they may not approach her for the next
ten minutes. Any assault on the victim cancels this
effect. If a victim expends a Willpower Trait, she does not
need to flee and is not affected by this Gift for the rest of
the night or session.
Faerie Kin— By expending a Gnosis Trait, the Garou
may issue a call to a spirit whose name she knows or one
with which she has become very familiar. The Spirit
Keeper (one of the Narrators) must be contacted to use
this Gift. The spirit is under no obligation to come unless
the Garou also risks Social Traits in the Gift. In this case,
the spirit must win a Social Challenge to resist to Gift.
Whether faeries or changelings will respond to this is up
to the Storyteller.
Woadling— The Garou has learned the art of the
ancient Celtic symbols and runes of war. By painting
them on his body, the Garou may bewilder and confuse
his foes when fighting in close quarters. The power lasts
for ten minutes and costs a Gnosis Trait to use. While the
Gift is effect, the first melee wound landed by an oppo-
nent has no effect. This Gift works only once on each
opponent per use of the Gift. The effects of this Gift are
not cumulative, and it can only be used in Homid form—
the effects are immediately canceled if the Garou as-
sumes any other form. The player must mark her face
with obviously visible markings to use this Gift.
Faerie Blood— The Garou can mystically alter her
blood to that of a faerie. While this negates the normal
penalties to silver, the Garou now suffers the same
penalties from iron. The Gift costs a Gnosis Trait to use
and lasts for fifteen minutes.
Advanced Gifts
Troll’s Bridge— The Garou can set up small, en-
closed area as a last line of defense. Examples include the
end of a hall, a small room or closet, or a ditch or gully.
The Gift costs a Gnosis Trait to use. To enter the area,
attackers must first spend one appropriate Physical Trait
and win a Simple Test, but after they do so, they may
enter and leave the area unhindered. The effects last for
one hour and the effects of repeated invocations are not
cumulative.
Balor’s Gaze— The Garou can evoke mind-numbing
pain in a target merely by glancing at him. The Garou
must spend one Gnosis Trait and one Rage Trait and
defeat the target in a Mental Challenge to use this Gift.
If successful, she may try to win a Simple Test, and if she
does, she may try to win another until she loses or ties.
Depending on the number of tests won (including he
initial test), the target takes on the following penalties:
Two Tests
Hurt
Four Tests
Injured
Six Tests
Incapacitated
The subject does not suffer any actual wounds from the
use of this Gift, just the associated penalties. Powers that
negate wound penalties are equally effective against this
Gift. Furthermore, if in danger of attack, the victim may
spend a Willpower Trait to shake off the effects for a
single conflict. The effects of Gift last for fifteen minutes
and are not in any way cumulative.
Gift of the Spriggan— The Garou can grow to enor-
mous size with the use of this Gift, increasing his ability
to take and receive damage. To use this power, the Garou
must spend two Gnosis Traits. She then grows to twice
her normal size. She gains an additional wound level and
causes an additional wound level when she hits an
opponent with a melee attack. The Garou may only use
this power on herself once. The effects of this Gift last for
ten minutes.
Get of Fenris
Basic Gifts
Razor Claws— As the Ahroun Gift.
Resist Pain— As the Philodox Gift.
Snarl of the Predator— The Garou’s intimidating
growl weakens his foe’s resolve and determination. The
Gift costs a Social Trait to use. If successful, the target
suffers a two Trait penalty against the Garou for the next
ten minutes (that is, he must spend three Traits to
initiate a challenge with the Garou). The effects of this
Gift are not cumulative.
Intermediate Gifts
Halt of the Coward’s Flight— The Garou can use this
on a foe she has been fighting and prevent him from
fleeing from the fray. If a foe who has engaged the Garou
decides to break combat by any Physical means (even
Celerity), the Garou may spend a Gnosis Trait and
demand a Mental Challenge. If the victim wins, he may
flee as normal and is not subject to this Gift until the two
engage in a different fight. If the Garou wins, the victim


The Apocalypse
96
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
may not flee and must engage in at least one more combat
challenge.
Venom Blood— The Garou can cause her blood to
take on toxic properties. Anyone biting the Garou or
partaking of her blood runs the risk of suffering damage.
She must win a Simple Test or the opponent will in-
stantly suffer an aggravated wound. If the victim is
drinking the Garou’s
blood, he must make one
test per Blood Trait con-
sumed or suffer damage.
This Gift costs a Gnosis
Trait to use and lasts ten
minutes.
Might of Thor— The
Garou can draw upon
deep stores of physical
energy, at a cost. Using
this Gift costs a Gnosis
Trait and a Rage Trait,
and it lasts for ten min-
utes. While the Gift is in
effect, the Garou gains
the Traits: Brutal, Fero-
cious and Tenacious.
Furthermore, she does
not suffer the effects of
wound penalties. How-
ever, for one hour after
using the Gift, the Garou
has only one Physical
Trait (regardless of any
other powers) and may
not initiate any Physical
Challenges.
Advanced Gifts
Berserker’s Song—
The Garou can sing him-
self into a controlled
frenzy. While in this
state, the character gains
all the benefits of frenzy, but does need not attack allies.
He may also end his frenzy at any time. This Gift costs
one Rage to use, and the player must sing loudly (and
appropriately) while it is being used. The Gift lasts for ten
minutes.
Fenris’ Bite— The Garou can deliver a devastating bite
that severely cripples her foe. Once the character success-
fully bites her opponent, she can choose to immediately
spend a Gnosis Trait and a Rage Trait to activate the Gift.
Once she has done so, she may make a Simple Test. If she
wins, she inflicts an additional wound upon her target and
may make another Simple Test. If she wins this second test,
the victim loses one of her four limbs (depending on where
he was bitten). A vampire can grow the limb back by
spending three Blood Traits and resting for an hour. An-
other Garou can heal this by retrieving the limb and resting
for one day. In the meantime, the victim should roleplay the
loss and has the temporary Negative Physical Trait: Lame.
Glass Walkers
Basic Gifts
Control Simple Machine— The Garou can control
very simple technologi-
cal items. The Garou
can cause nearby, non-
electronic machinery to
turn on and off and/or
perform a normal range
of functions. Using this
Gift to affect one item
costs a variable number
of Gnosis Traits. Each
command requires the
Garou to win or tie a
Simple Test. The Gift
ends when the Garou
loses one of the Simple
Tests or a full minute
has passed. This Gift
costs a variable number
of Gnosis Traits.
One Gnosis
Lock, doorknob, pistol
or small lever
Two Gnosis
Rifle, safe door or hy-
draulic jack
Three Gnosis
Crane or watermill
Persuasion— As the
Homid Gift.
Cybersenses— The
Garou may alter his
senses to a degree to gain
access to a range of sen-
sory information he could not normally comprehend.
This power cost a Gnosis to use and lasts for ten minutes.
Sight:
• Infrared— See heat sources, ignore most darkness
penalties or detect a vampire (unless they’ve fed in the
last hour or they’ve been in a very warm area).
• High band transmissions— Watch television pro-
grams as transmissions pass through the air; the Garou
must win a Simple Test to find a specific station.
Hearing:
• Radio Band— Listen to random radio transmissions;
the Garou must win a Simple Test to find a specific band.
• Radar— See immediate surroundings, ignore dark-
ness penalties.
• Supersonic/Subsonic— See motion-sensor beams.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
97
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Touch:
• Electric (Stream)— Feel the transmission of elec-
tricity, find live wires, or tap a phone line or intercom by
touching the wiring.
Note only one effect of this Gift may be in use at a
time.
Intermediate Gifts
Heat Metal— The Garou can quickly heat a metal
object to the point of damaging anyone touching the
object. By spending a Gnosis Trait, the Garou may
drastically raise the temperature of a small object that she
can readily see, such as a knife, pistol, doorknob or
wristwatch. The victim must make a Simple Test. Win-
ning means the object and anyone touching it will avoid
damage. A tie means the object heats up, but anyone
holding or touching may let go or drop the object to
escape harm. Losing the challenge means the object
heats up and there is no chance to let go before being
burned. Each level of Celerity (Celerity, Rapidity or
Fleetness) allows the character to retest a loss, but not a
tie. Damage suffered is aggravated. The object returns to
normal temperature in one minute, but if the number of
times the object is exposed to this Gift exceeds the
number of Traits it possesses, it is ruined.
Power Surge— The character can make a large surge
of uncontrolled electricity overload existing lines, possi-
bly causing an outage. The Garou must spend a varying
amount of Gnosis Traits and win a Mental Challenge.
The minimum number of Traits risked depends on the
area to be affected.
Medium sized room
Two Traits
Small house or single story
Three Traits
Large building
Four Traits
City block
Six Traits
Neighborhood
Nine Traits
Control Complex Machine— As the Gift: Control
Simple Machine, except electronic devices can be con-
trolled as well. The Gnosis costs are as follows:
Phone, calculator, watch or light fixture One Gnosis
Computer, arcade games, TVs and VCRs Two Gnosis
Cars and industrial machinery
Three Gnosis
Attunement— As the Bone Gnawer Gift.
Doppleganger— The Garou may take on the likeness
of an individual she has had the chance to closely study
or examine. By spending a Gnosis Trait, she may assume
the subject’s Physical appearance, not including clothes
or other belongings. Someone familiar with the original
person will sense something is amiss, and if he wins or ties
a Simple Test, he will realize that he is dealing with an
impostor. Those with powers that reveal the hidden may
uncover the truth if the individual thinks to use her
power. The Gift lasts for one hour.
Advanced Gifts
Long Distance Running— The Garou can take ad-
vantage of time-slippage associated with the Gauntlet,
drastically reducing the travel time between two points
in the physical world. Spending more Gnosis can make
the journey quicker. However, once the trip begins, it
may not be interrupted or any bonuses will be lost. This
power may only be used once per session.
One Gnosis
Multiply travel time by 3/4
Two Gnosis
Multiply travel time by 1/2
Three Gnosis
Multiply travel time by 1/4
Phone Travel— The Garou may travel through a
physical phone line to reach a destination. This power
only works over physical lines and cannot be used with
satellite relays, cellular systems, pagers or the like. Fur-
thermore, the Garou must know the number. The phone
on the other end must actually be picked up— an
answering machine or a computer modem isn’t good
enough. Otherwise, this Gift provides almost instant
transportation. It cost a Gnosis Trait to use.
Calm the Flock— The Garou can negate the effects of
the Delirium in normal humans near her. For each
Gnosis Trait spent, the effects of Delirium are suspended
for one hour.
Red Talons
Basic Gifts
Beast Life— As the Lupus Gift.
Scent of Running Water — As the Galliard Gift.
Babble— The Garou can temporarily steal the Gift of
language from a person. The Garou must spend a Gnosis
Trait and win a Mental Challenge with the target. If the
attempt is successful, the victim cannot read, write, speak
intelligibly or understand the speech of others. Not even
hand gestures are possible. The effects last for thirty
minutes.
Beastmind— The Garou can implant a powerful,
animalistic nature in the victim. By spending a Mental
Trait and defeating the target in a Mental Challenge, the
Garou can force the victim to adopt the following tem-
porary Negative Traits: Bestial x 2 and Shortsighted. The
effects of this Gift last for ten minutes.
Intermediate Gifts
Sense of the Prey — As the Ragabash Gift.
Quicksand— The Garou can temporarily transform a
patch of ground into a treacherous quagmire. The Garou
must spend a Gnosis Trait and win a Simple Test. If
successful, she can alter a 10' x 10' area of earth or natural
stone (not wood, concrete or processed materials) into a
sticky trap. Anyone entering or already in the area runs
the risk of becoming trapped. Each individual must make
a Simple Test. If a victim wins, he is free from the danger
or somehow avoids it If he ties, he is stuck and may try to
test again in one minute. If he loses, he falls deeper into
the trap and must win an additional test to free himself.
A Static Physical Challenge against five Traits will allow
a person to leap completely over the area (space permit-
ting). The Gift lasts for ten minutes.


The Apocalypse
98
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Rot Weavertech— The Garou can quickly ruin the
trappings of human science and technology, but not
relatively primitive items. Anything developed solely
after the Renaissance is fair game for this Gift. A Simple
Test is required to affect the item. Success indicates the
destruction of the item, a tie means the item is unaf-
fected, and a loss means that the device not only survived,
but that it may not be subjected to the Gift again, ever.
Gnosis cost depends on the size and complexity of the
item.
One Gnosis— flashlight, pistol, minor appliance,
lock
Two Gnosis— rifle, video equipment, stereo, wiring
in a single room
Three Gnosis— computer, wiring in a small house
or car
Advanced Gifts
Curse of Dionysis— The Garou can evoke a powerful
transformation, changing her target into a wolf. The
Garou must spend three Gnosis Traits and defeat her
target in a Mental Challenge. A Garou can reassume his
preferred form after 30 minutes. In normal humans, the
effect is permanent. Only vampires with the Discipline:
Beast Form are affected by this Gift. If subjected to this
Gift, a vampire may resume his normal shape after 30
minutes have passed.
Shadow Lords
Basic Gifts
Fatal Flaw — The Garou may enter a Mental Chal-
lenge with an individual to uncover a weakness. If
successful, the Garou learns one of his target’s Negative
Traits or a Derangement (the target chooses which one).
This Gift costs a Gnosis Trait to use, and the Garou may
not use it on an individual more than once a session.
Aura of Confidence— The Garou bolsters his natural
aura so that Fatal Flaw and similar powers do not reveal
his weaknesses. Furthermore, those who can see auras
will find the Garou’s emotional state to be solidly confi-
dent while the Gift is in effect. It does not hamper the
other powers of Aura Perception whatsoever. The Gift
costs a Gnosis Trait to use and lasts for one hour.
Clap of Thunder— By forcefully clapping his hands
together, the Garou can produce a stunning shockwave.
Everyone within ten feet of the Garou must make a
Simple Test. If the defender wins, he is unaffected. If the
defender ties, he is stunned and may not initiate a
Physical Challenge for one full minute. If the defender
loses, he must not initiate any sort of challenge for one
full minute. This Gift costs one Gnosis to use.
Disfigurement— Through vile whispers, the Garou
can create a ugly, unsightly blemish or mark upon her
target. By spending a Gnosis Trait and defeating her
opponent in a Social Challenge, the Garou can bestow
the target with the Negative Social Trait: Repugnant.
This Gift lasts for one session and is not cumulative.
Intermediate Gifts
Luna’s Armor— As the Children of Gaia Gift.
Icy Chill of Despair— As the Philodox Gift: Roll
Over.
Paralyzing Stare— As the Homid Gift.
Open Wounds— The Garou can cause the victim to
bleed profusely from the next wound she inflicts upon
him. Immediately after inflicting a wound to the subject,
the Garou may spend a Gnosis Trait to make a Simple
Test. If the Garou wins, the target suffers another normal
wound. A vampire affected by this Gift does not suffer
another wound, but she does lose a Blood Trait.
Advanced Gifts
Strength of the Dominator— The Garou may steal
Rage from another Garou. If the user of the Gift defeats
her opponent in a Mental Challenge, the target loses a
Rage Trait to the user of the Gift. If the defender wins,
the user of the Gift may not try to steal her Rage again
that session. Stolen Rage, if it is not spent, returns to its
user in ten minutes.
Obedience— The Garou can issue powerful Mental
commands to an individual. The Garou must defeat her
target in a Mental Challenge, and if she does so, she may
spend a number of Mental Traits depending on the
command given. The Gift cost a Gnosis Trait to attempt.
One Trait
Perform a preferred act, or one directly
in line with the target’s nature
Two Traits
Unlikely actions, or ones that do not
oppose the target’s nature
Three Traits Disliked actions, or ones completely
against the target’s nature
Five Traits
Dangerous, but not suicidal or possibly
fatal actions
Seven Traits Dangerous, potentially fatal actions
Silent Striders
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm— As the Metis Gift.
Speed of Thought— The Garou may spend a Mental
Trait and gain the following Traits, which can only be
used in reference to land movement: Quick, Quick and
Tireless. If these Traits are not used within the next hour,
they are lost.
Messenger’s Fortitude— The Garou may travel great
distances without experiencing hunger or fatigue. The
Strider must continue to run to continue using this Gift.
The Garou can run for up to three days non-stop, but
must sleep for one week afterwards. The power costs a
Mental Trait to use, and for a Gnosis Trait, another
Garou may benefit from this Gift as well. In the game,
this means that Garou using this Gift can cover long
distances in a third of the normal time.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
99
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Intermediate Gifts
Blissful Ignorance— As the Ragabash Gift.
Summon Talisman— The Garou may summon forth
a hand-sized item that has been dedicated specifically to
her by the Rite of Talisman Dedication. This power costs
a Gnosis Trait to use and cannot access items from the
Umbra, unless the Gift: Grasp the Beyond is also known
and used by the Garou.
Message Glance— The Garou can send quick, short
messages to targets that are nearby and in line of sight.
The Gift costs one Gnosis Trait for every five words sent.
Because of the burst-like manner of this transmission,
Telepathy cannot be used to listen in on these messages.
A note or private conversation may be used to represent
this Gift’s use.
Adaptation— The Garou can overcome the harshest
of conditions and survive in environments that would
kill lesser beings. The Garou can resist the effects of high
and low pressure, poisonous atmospheres, vacuum or
extremes of temperature. The Gift costs one Gnosis to
use and lasts for one hour. For an additional Gnosis Trait,
another Garou may benefit from this Gift.
Garou under the effects of this Gift are immune to
natural sources of these types of damage.
Tongues— As the Homid Gift.
Speed Beyond Thought— The character possesses
supernatural agility and coordination, demonstrating
speed that outclasses human athletes and even her fellow
Garou. If the character is aware of an upcoming physical
threat, she may spend a Gnosis Trait to pre-empt the
actions with an action of her own. Some examples of such
threats include: melee attacks, falling objects, gunfire,
oncoming cars or thrown objects.
During combat, a character may spend a Gnosis Trait
to activate this Gift, which gives her an additional
chance of harming her opponent (i.e., an extra attack).
After the first test is resolved, the character with Speed
Beyond Thought may perform an additional test to
attempt to damage her opponent. This is a Simple Test.
Note that the use of Speed Beyond Thought must be
declared at the beginning of a challenge.
Attunement — As the Bone Gnawer Gift, except that
it only works in the wilderness.
Advanced Gifts
Long Running — As the Glass Walker Gift.
Open Moon Gate — As the Ragabash Gift.
Reach the Umbra — By using this Gift, the Garou
may simply and easily move from this world to the
Umbra. The  Gauntlet does not matter and a reflective
surface isn’t necessary. The Garou, however, must spend
a Gnosis Trait and win or tie a Simple Test.
Silver Fangs
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm — As the Metis Gift.
Lambent Flame— The Garou emanates a silvery
shower of light from her body, illuminating an area with
up to a hundred foot radius. The light itself is harmless,
but anyone engaged in melee against the Silver Fang
must make an initial bid of two Traits to attack. Ranged
attackers, on the other hand, act as if they had two
additional Traits to their total. The Gift costs one Gnosis
Trait to use and lasts for ten minutes.
Paralyzing Stare— As the Shadow Lord Gift.
Intermediate Gifts
Luna’s Armor— As the Children of Gaia Gift.
Roll Over— As the Philodox Gift, but it costs no
Gnosis Traits to use and only effects other Garou.
Silver Claws— As the Ahroun Gift.
Wrath of Gaia— The Garou can evoke terror and
panic in the minions of the Wyrm. The Garou must
spend a Gnosis Trait and defeat the target in a Mental
Challenge to use this Gift. If successful, any creature that
is of the Wyrm must flee in terror (some vampires are
affected by this). They may stop their flight after ten
minutes or when they are no longer within sight of the
user of the Gift.
Mastery— The Garou can call upon the ancient rites
of leadership to demand that other Garou obey her. She
must expend a Gnosis Trait and defeat her foe in a Social
Challenge. If successful, the subject must obey the com-
mand, as long as it is not suicidal, is straightforward, and
can be executed quickly and immediately. The task may
not take more than ten minutes to carry o
Advanced Gifts
Ignore Wound— After suffering a grievous wound,
the Garou can choose to ignore and thus dispel its affects
entirely. Immediately after suffering the effects of a single
combat challenge, the Garou may spend a Willpower
Trait to totally disregard those effects. No other aspect of
the challenge is altered. This Gift may only be used once
per session.
Mindblock— The Garou can fortify her mind against
the manipulations of others. While in use, this Gift
provides the Garou with three Traits with which to resist
any form of supernatural control represented by Mental
or Social Challenges. Furthermore, the Garou wins any
ties in challenges to resist that control. The Gift costs
one Gnosis Trait to use and lasts for ten minutes.
Paws of the Newborn Cub— The Garou can tempo-
rarily cancel out a special combat power of a foe. The Gift
costs a Gnosis Trait to use, and the Garou must defeat the
victim in a Mental Challenge. Once the Garou has done
so, she may cancel out one of the target’s special combat
powers, such as aggravated damage (one source only),
claws, a Gift, the use of Blood Traits or regeneration.


The Apocalypse
100
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Other powers may be affected at the Storyteller’s discre-
tion. Only one power per use may be affected in this way.
The power returns after one full minute.
Luna’s Avenger— The Garou can transform into a
fierce engine of destruction in times of great need. By
spending three Gnosis Traits, the Garou transforms her
body into purest silver. In this form, the Garou avoids the
harmful effects of silver, gains an extra Health Level, and
augments her hand-to-hand damage so that it inflicts
damage in the same manner as silver. The Gift lasts for
ten minutes.
Stargazers
Basic Gifts
Sense Wyrm— As the Metis Gift.
Catfeet— As the Lupus Gift.
Surface Attunement— The Garou may spend a Gnosis
Trait to activate this Gift, and for the next hour, he may
pass effortlessly over mud, water, grease, oil, snow, ice,
quicksand or similar substances without leaving a trace.
The attunement can also be used to resist Gifts that
mimic the effects of these surfaces.
Intermediate Gifts
Merciful Blow— If the Garou wins a normal combat
challenge, she may choose to stun her opponent instead
of inflicting damage. If so, the Garou must expend a
Gnosis Trait. The foe is stunned for one full minute and
may take no action except to defend herself against
further attacks.
Clarity— With the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait, the
Garou can see through obscurements, such as fog, smoke,
complete darkness or even magical obscurement. The
Gift lasts for ten minutes. Alternatively, the Gift can be
used to see through someone else’s personal disguise or
Obfuscation. In this case, a Gnosis Trait must be spent,
and the individual must be defeated in a Mental Chal-
lenge.
Preternatural Awareness— The Garou gains an un-
canny insight into danger directed at her person. Anyone
wishing to attack the Garou must first make a Simple
Test. If the attacker wins, he is not impeded. If he ties, he
suffers a one Trait penalty when attacking the Garou. If
he loses, he suffers the penalty and his first attack misses
entirely (neither party suffers a wound or loses Traits).
The one Trait penalty lasts for the duration of the
conflict. This Gift costs a Gnosis Trait to use and lasts for
one conflict.
Advanced Gifts
Wisdom of the Seer— The Garou can contemplate
the nocturnal heavens for the answer to a single, direct
question. The cost is between one and three Gnosis
Traits and is assigned by a Storyteller, along with the
answer. Answers are often cryptic or unclear.
Circular Attack— The Garou can turn the supposed
advantage of numbers against his attackers. This Gift
only works if the Garou is fighting alone and is attacked
by two or more assailants. For every attacker beyond the
first, the Garou gains a Trait to add to his total while his
opponents lose any Traits they gained for attacking as a
group. These Traits must be used in the immediate
challenge, but the Garou will receive Traits for every
challenge in which there are multiple attackers. This
Gift does not cost Gnosis Traits to use and may be used
as frequently as possible.
Uktena
Basic Gifts
Sense Magic— The Garou can expend a Gnosis Trait
and tell if an item or a particular area is magical or
enchanted (the area affected is quite small). To use this
Gift on another individual, a Mental Challenge is re-
quired.
Spirit of the Fish— The Garou may breathe water and
travel unhindered underwater. The Gift costs one Gnosis
Trait to use, but lasts until the Garou surfaces or breathes
air again.
Blur of the Milky Eye— As the Ragabash Gift.
Intermediate Gifts
Call Flame Spirit— The Garou can summon forth a
fire spirit from an existing fire source to attack a foe of the
Garou’s choosing. The Garou most spend a Gnosis Trait
and perform a Simple Test to use this Gift. If she loses the
test, the spirit will attack her instead. Use the statistics
for fire from the lupus Gift: Elemental Gift.
Secrets— The Garou may unearth one secret from a
subject, ranging from relatively mundane knowledge to
deep dark secrets. The Garou must first defeat the subject
in a Mental Challenge. The Gnosis cost varies depend-
ing on the darkness of the secret.
One Gnosis— creature type, real name, embarrass-
ing fact
Two Gnosis— alliance, sire, affair with another
Garou, minor treachery or wrongdoing
Three Gnosis— Diabolist vampires, spying for the
Wyrm or betrayal of a sept or tribe
Call Elemental — As the lupus Gift: Elemental Gift.
Advanced Gifts
Pointing the Bone— The Garou can channel energy
into an old bone to cause her foes damage at a distance
(within the same city or a few miles). The Garou must
spend a Gnosis Trait and defeat her foe in a Physical
Challenge. If the Garou wins, the victim suffers a wound.
If the Garou fails, however, the victim is unharmed and
may not be subjected to this Gift for the remainder of the
session.
Fetish Doll— The Garou can create a small doll and
use it to damage a foe over great distances at little risk.
The doll requires part of the victim (or a close personal
effect) and three Gnosis Traits to create. The Garou can
then make Simple Tests to inflict damage upon the


Chapter Four: Characteristics
101
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
target. One test may be made per minute. Winning
inflicts an aggravated wound, tying inflicts a normal
wound and losing destroys the doll completely.
Wendigo
Basic Gifts
Call the Breeze— The Garou may call up a strong,
cold breeze at will. This breeze lasts only for a moment,
but it will blow away insects or loose paper and extinguish
candles, torches and oil lamps. This Gift costs one Gnosis
Trait to use.
Camouflage— As the Ragabash Gift: Blur of the
Milky Eye, but only usable in wilderness settings.
Cutting Wind— A painfully frigid wind blasts forth
from the Garou, chilling opponents to the bone. The
area of effect is ten feet wide and twenty feet long. Those
within this area must make a Simple Test. If the defend-
ers win, they are unharmed. If they tie, they suffer a one
Trait penalty on any Physical Challenges. If they lose,
they suffer a two Trait penalty on any Physical Chal-
lenges. The Gift costs a Gnosis to use and is over in an
instant. The penalties, however, remain in effect for ten
minutes.
Speak with the Wind Spirits — The Garou may
beckon the nearby air spirits to bring him words spoken
by others. The Garou may use this Gift to listen in on
conversation of others nearby (fifty feet or so) as long as
there are no obstructions in the way. This Gift costs a
Gnosis Trait to use and lasts for ten minutes.
Intermediate Gifts
Chill of the Early Frost— From the far north, the
Garou calls forth the dreaded cold of midnight winters.
The magical cold causes all creatures to suffer while out
of doors and exposed to the numbing effects. If a victim
is adapted to these conditions (like Crinos and Lupus
Garou), the Gift will not affect him. Any other victim
braving the hostile weather must make a Simple Test for
every ten minutes spent outside. If the victim succeeds,
she avoids any ill effects. If she ties, she is two Traits down
on any Physical Challenge. If she loses, she suffers a
wound and further penalties. Half-an-hour indoors is
required to cancel these penalties. This Gift takes a hour
to evoke and may only be used in winter, early spring or
late fall if the location is anywhere other than Arctic or
Antarctic regions. Each Gnosis Trait spent will increase
the duration by one hour.
Attunement— As the Bone Gnawer Gift, but only in
wilderness.
Counting Coup— The Garou can perform great feats
of daring bravery when faced with a superior foe. The
Garou attacks as normal, but instead of inflicting dam-
age, she makes a Simple Test. If she wins, the victim
temporarily loses a Renown Trait (if he has any). Fur-
thermore, if the Gifted Garou goes on to overcome her
opponent, a Storyteller may allow her to petition for a


The Apocalypse
102
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Renown Trait at the next moot. This Gift may only be
used in real life-or-death combat, not in brawls or mock
fights. No foe can be the subject of this Gift more than
once per session.
Advanced Gifts
Invoke the Spirits of the Storm— The Garou may
call up any type of weather possible in the area at that
time of the year. The Gift costs three Gnosis Traits to use
and takes one to three hours to activate, depending of the
severity of the weather change. If lasts for one full day or
one game session.
Heart of Ice— The Garou can direct the icy ven-
geance of Wendigo himself into the heart of his foe. To
use this power, the Garou must first know the victims full,
true name, but range is not a factor. She must then spend
three Gnosis Traits and defeat the foe in a Mental
Challenge. If successful, she may try to tie or win a Simple
Test each minute to inflict an aggravated wound upon
the victim. The Garou may continue to do so until she
loses a challenge or the victim dies. A vampire loses
Blood Traits instead of suffering wounds— when the
number of Traits is reduced to zero, she enters torpor. No
individual may be subjected to this Gift more than once
by the same Garou.
Rites
Rites are the formal yet highly-individualized mystic
ceremonies of the Garou race. They are like recipes,
utilizing the bounty of Gaia to create a spiritual repast for
her most beloved children. Like a recipe, a rite bears the
flavor of the auspice or tribe that performs it. No one
would mistake the reflective meditations of a Stargazer
rite with the savage pageantry of a Get of Fenris cer-
emony.
Regardless of the trappings of the rites, they share a
common direction and bent and are often recognizable
by other Garou in even the most unfamiliar of forms.
Rites can be broken down into several categories. As
one would expect, the different auspices show an affinity
for certain categories. Most noteworthy among these are
the Theurges (Mystical, Seasonal and Caern Rites) and
the Philodox (Accord and Punishment Rites). Other
auspices often learn assorted rites befitting their natures,
but not nearly as often as the Philodox and Theurges,
who are expected to learn this ancient lore.
Enacting a Rite
All but the simplest of rites are performed by a group
of three or more Garou. One participant coordinates the
effort and is designated as the Ritemaster. The Ritemaster
is the only member of the group that must know the rite,
and, as a result, she directs the actions and channels the
energies of the others.
Rites often demand intense, if not total, concentra-
tion. If undisturbed, a competent Ritemaster can cast a
rite in about ten minutes for each level of the rite. Basic
Rites require approximately 10 minutes, Intermediate
Rites take approximately 20 Minutes and Advanced
Rites can take up to 30 Minutes or more. An untested or
inexperienced Garou can take twice as long.
Each rite has a requirement of a minimum number of
Traits. This means that the Garou attempting the rite
must match this minimum Trait requirement before he
can perform the ceremony. These Traits are not spent—
they are merely the minimum number of Traits the
character must have in order to perform the ceremony. If
the Ritemaster does not have enough Traits, but is within
three Traits of the number required, then he can still
make an attempt. If this is the case, the rite will take
require as much time.
Additionally, a rite can take less time to perform if the
Ritemaster has more Traits than needed. For every two
Traits over the minimum needed, the Ritemaster can
subtract five minutes from the time it takes to perform
the rite.
Involving more Garou makes the rite easier to per-
form. For every two Garou beyond the minimum number
necessary, a free additional Trait is gained by the
Ritemaster to use in the ceremony. The following table
shows the type of Traits that are used in different types of
rites.
Rite:
Type:
Accord
Social
Caern
Social
Death
Varies
Mystic
Mental
Punishment
Social
Renown
Social
Seasonal
Varies
Minor
Varies
Rite Level
 Minimum Traits
Minimum Participants
Basic
5
3
Intermediate
8
5
Advanced
11
7
Minimum Participants
Some confident or desperate Garou attempt rites even
when they do not have the necessary resources. If a rite
does not have the minimum number of Garou necessary
to complete the rite, the Ritemaster must spend a number
of Mental Traits equal to the number of participants he
is lacking.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
103
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Minimum Number of Traits
If a ceremony requires a minimum number of Traits
from the Garou present, this pool of Traits is separate
from the Traits that are actually risked. This is not part
of the actual test, and the Traits of attending Garou are
not actually part of the bid. The Traits risked in a rite are
those of the Ritemaster.
Rites of Accord
These rites draw their power from connecting to the
primal state of Gaia. That cycle is characterized by
harmonious coexistence and rejuvenation.
To channel this power, the Garou must utilize an
object that is unspoiled by the ravages of man or the
Wyrm.
Basic Rites
Rite of Cleansing — The Wyrm and its minions leave
their indelible taint on everything they touch. While
this rite cannot affect the Wyrm or its minions directly,
it can remove the taint of their presence. Once the taint
is removed, the area, person or object may not be further
infected for the rest of the session. The Gnosis cost varies
with the area the Garou wishes to affect.
One Gnosis— one person or one man-sized object
Two Gnosis— small room
Three Gnosis—a large building
If a minion of the Wyrm is present in the contami-
nated object or area, it must first be defeated in order for
the rite to work. Also, if the minion is not banished in
time, it can reinfect the target.
Rite of Contrition— A Garou performs this rite when
she has committed a slight, either real or imagined,
against another Garou or spirit. This is an elaborate form
of apology. When used on a spirit, it soothes its anger, and
attacking the caster becomes difficult. The Garou must
have an aspect of the subject (clothing, fur, a representa-
tion, etc.) The caster can then expend a Gnosis Trait and
perform the Mental Challenge. She may bid additional
Traits after the initial bid. For each additional Trait bid,
a one Trait penalty is levied against the rite’s subject,
should he choose to ignore the rite. The effects of the rite
end when the Garou initiate any sort of attack, when the
spirit is insulted or when the session ends.
Rite of the Pack— In these last days, many packs are
decimated by the raking claws of Death. Sadly, more than
one Garou pack has been reduced to only one member
after a surprise attack. For this reason, it has become
important to create a means by which a pack may be
made out of the fragments of other fallen packs. This has
become a triumphant rite to perform, however. The Rite
of the Pack is a statement of a renewed commitment to
Gaia and a promise that the fight against the Wyrm will
never end until victory is won.
If Garou are adding a member to their pack, they have
to all agree to the addition. The Rite of the Pack is begun
by telling the tales of the fallen comrades who are no
longer with them. Then the pack’s Alpha (or the last
remaining member of the former pack) will go to each
Garou and ask the totem of the pack to recognize the new
pack member. At the end of this rite, the new pack howls
as one, and they go immediately to the nearest tribe or
sept elder and announce their new name and members.
Usually a feast or hunt is planned for this occasion.
If an entirely new pack is formed, the Garou may
attract a brand new totem and may also acquire a brand
new quest.
Rite of Renunciation— Once in a rare while, a Garou
will find herself unable to fulfill the role of the auspice
under which she was born. This rite allows the Garou to
take on a new auspice while leaving the old auspice (and
any previous Rank) behind. It is also used by those
wishing to leave some great shame behind and experi-
ence a rebirth of sorts. Those partaking of this rite are
often frowned upon by the more conservative factions of
Garou society and may even experience open hostility.
The rite itself is easily performed, requiring no challenge
or Gnosis cost. The subject must do this of her own free
will. She can no longer learn Gifts of her previous
auspice, but she does retain any old ones. For all other
purposes, she is a fostern of her new auspice, with the
minimum number of Renown in her chosen auspice. She
may learn the appropriate Gifts of her new auspice with
experience.
Intermediate Rites
Rite of the Opened Sky— When this rite is per-
formed, a cool, cleansing rain showers down over the
caern. The cost and effect of this rite is similar to the Rite
of Contrition. Also, for every two additional Gnosis
Traits spent, all Garou present are healed of a single
wound, aggravated or otherwise. The Garou must sacri-
fice something of great personal value to enact this rite.
Caern Rites
These rites are aligned with the most sacred sites of
Garou and Gaia. Caerns are the bosom from which all
Garou are nourished. If the caerns were left to ebb and die
out, the death of the Garou race would not be far behind.
These rites may only be performed while within a
caern. This implies having the permission of the presid-
ing Garou, as caern piracy is one of the foulest breeches
of Garou etiquette. Furthermore, for every level of the
caern, the Ritemaster receives a free Trait to use in the
rite’s contest. This is in addition to any other bonus
Traits.


The Apocalypse
104
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Basic Rites
Moot Rite— This rite must be performed to prepare
the spirit realm surrounding a site for a coming moot. The
ceremony is an integral part of the Opening Howl. If it is
not performed, the moot will be cursed with ill-fortune
and poor fellowship, and spirits will shun the event. It
must be performed at least once per month or the strength
of the caern will wane. During the course of the rite, two
Gnosis Traits must be sacrificed for each level of the
caern. For each month this rite is ignored, the caern will
drop one level of power until it is dormant. These Gnosis
Traits are spent during the Revel stage of the moot and
may come from any Garou present for the moot.
Intermediate Rites
Rite of the Open Caern— Caerns are founts of
enormous mystical energy. Each caern has its own power.
Knowledge, Strength, Healing, Gnosis, Rage and De-
fense are a few examples. A brave Garou can attempt to
harness those energies with this rite. The Garou must
enter a Social Challenge with the caern’s rating (one to
five) with benefit of the caern’s extra Traits. If she wins,
the Garou can utilize a single use of the caern’s power or
add the caern’s rating, as Traits, to her own in a future
challenge appropriate to the caern’s special purpose (this
is not cumulative). If the Garou fails, she suffers a number
of aggravated wounds equal to the caern’s rating divided
by two (round up). These wounds may be reduced to
normal damage if a Gnosis point is spent on each one.
The Badger’s Burrow— The Garou can use this rite
to forge a mystic sense between herself and the area about
the caern. No challenge is necessary to enact this rite, but
interpreting its results can be difficult. For every Mental
Trait the Garou expends, she can ask a yes/no or short
answer question. Each question is accompanied by a
Static Mental Challenge, which must be won or tied to
receive an answer. This rite may only be used once per
session, and questions may not be repeated. Furthermore,
questions can only concern the caern, its nearby sur-
roundings, contents, current state or historical events
about it.
Advanced Rites
Rite of the Opened Bridge — This well-protected rite
has served the Garou since ancient times, helping distant
septs keep in touch with each other and providing a
means of quick travel in times of dire necessity. The rite
coerces the guardian spirit of a caern to establish a portal
to another caern. A rare Pathstone or Moongem is
needed at each end of the Moon Bridge for this ritual.
The Garou must spend a Gnosis point and win or tie the
challenge to open the Bridge. If successful, a bond is
formed between the two caerns, and either the Rite of the
Opened Caern or the Gift: Open Moon Bridge can
activate the Bridge at any time for the next full year. If she
loses, all future attempts to that particular caern are one
Trait higher (this is cumulative) and the Storyteller
should make a second secret Simple Test. If the result is


Chapter Four: Characteristics
105
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
a tie, anyone using the bridge is instead transported to a
undesired location. If the result is a loss, the caern may
not be the start or end point for any bridge for a full year,
and the Ritemaster may be subjected to the Rite of
Ostracism. The maximum range of the bridge is 1000
miles.
Rite of the Shrouded Glen — The Garou can create
a concealing veil over a small area in the Umbra. To
observers outside of the field, the area appears to be
empty and unremarkable. The cost varies with the size of
the target area.
One Gnosis
Small room, fire circle
Two Gnosis
Large room, small glade
Three Gnosis
Small copse, large home, field
Four Gnosis
Football field, mansion
Creatures with exceptional powers of perception can
try to penetrate the shrouded area by winning a Mental
Challenge against the caster.
For every Mental Trait expended, the rite lasts for
thirty minutes.
Rite of Caern Building — In times of old, before the
Wyrm gained its stranglehold about Gaia’s neck, Garou
would use this rite sparingly. Today, its use is hardly ever
seen. Its benefits are almost always outweighed by its
difficulties and dangers. First of all, an enormous quantity
of Gnosis is needed (50 Traits at best). Once engaged in
the rite, the Ritemaster is helpless and must be defended
from the numerous minions of the Wyrm that invariably
arrive to prevent the rite. If less than 50 Gnosis Traits are
available, Garou participating will begin to suffer aggra-
vated wounds. Each will suffer a wound, which will in
turn provide three more Gnosis points until the requisite
50 is made. Every hour, the Ritemaster may make a
number of Simple Tests equal to the total number of
Gnosis Traits available. Once all 50 Simple Tests are
made, count up the total number of successes. If twenty
or more Simple Tests are made, all is well— see below for
newborn caern’s rating.
20+ Successes
Level One
25+ Successes
Level Two
35+ Successes
Level Three
40+ Successes
Level Four
50+ Successes
Level Five
If fewer than twenty successes were made, divide the
number of successes that were needed among the partici-
pants (round up) as levels of aggravated damage. The rite
fails.
To have participated in such a rite is a legendary feat
deserving of Renown, even though it might be a posthu-
mous reward.
Rites of Death
Having spent their lives so close to the spirit world,
Garou understand death as an essential part of Gaia’s
cycle and show the appropriate homage for it instead of
showing fear or ignorance.
Basic Rites
Gathering for the Departed— The rite eases the
passage of a fallen Garou to the Umbra and his totem. If
it is neglected, the spirit may become lost and haunt his
old companions until they give her this honor.
Rite of the Winter Wolf— There comes a time in a
Garou’s life when he can no longer serve the tribe or find
purpose in this world. In a solemn and serious ceremony,
the tales of his life is sung by his fellow Garou. The
ceremony ends as the Garou retires to a secluded place
where he will take his own life. This rite is immediately
followed by the Gathering for the Departed.
Mystic Rites
These rites call forth spirits and Umbral entities to the
Garou that performs them. This is considered a solitary
affair, as it is performed by a lone Ritemaster (a ceremony
can be performed somewhere else). The results often
occur in complete privacy.
Basic Rites
Baptism of Fire— This rite is used to help Garou keep
track of their young, the cubs who will one day share in
task of defending Gaia. It leaves a permanent spiritual
mark upon the child that is only lifted upon the comple-
tion of the Rite of Passage. Until that time, she may be
found as if the caster were using the Ritual of the
Questing Stone. Rumor has it that Black Spiral Dancers
(and worse) may be taking advantage of this rite to track
down Garou young for their own purposes.
Rite of Spirit Awakening— This rite awakens the
sleeping spirit in an object or a place. If the rite is
performed on an object, the sleeping spirit will “wake
up.” The spirit is now available to be commanded or
bound. Usually an object’s spirit is a Gaffling or Jaggling.
If this rite is done to a fetish or talen that has been
discovered, it allows the Ritualist to speak briefly with
the inhabiting spirit and perhaps learn some of the
secrets of the fetish or talen. In addition, natural herbs
that have been specially dried and treated with this rite
gain special powers of various kinds. These herbs are
assigned a Gnosis Trait rating based on how much of the
herbs are gathered. For example, properly prepared yaupon
banishes fatigue and negates the need for sleep. Plantain
can heal a number of wound levels equal to its Gnosis
pool. The Spirit Keeper will have to decide what sacred
foods and herbs do in the context of her story and decide
what is available in a given area.
When this rite is used on an area or larger object, like
a car, it awakens its spirit in the Umbra and allows the
Garou to interact with it. So, a Rite of Spirit Awakening
done on a Garou’s apartment building may cause the


The Apocalypse
106
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
building’s spirit to awaken and discuss with its Garou
tenant how it could be helped by a few coats of paint and
a new heating system (as well the spiritual benefits that
could be achieved if that loud young man on the third
floor would just turn his music down). It can be useful,
however, to be a friend of the spirit of the place in which
you live, or the spirit of the car that you drive. Glass
Walkers are particularly adept at speaking to technology
spirits, and often Awaken even the floppy disks they use.
Rite of the Cup— This rite allows Garou to exchange
Gnosis with each other, either receiving it or giving it. It
requires two Garou, or one Garou and a spirit.
The Rite of the Cup requires that each Garou partici-
pating spends one of the following Mental Traits: Calm,
Disciplined, Insightful, Intuitive, Patient, Reflective or
Wise. If the Garou in question does not possess one of
these Mental Traits, he may not take part in the rite.
A ritual cup is prepared: it can be any kind of cup, from
a styrofoam coffee cup to a crystal goblet or a beer stein.
The container is filled with water. At this point, every-
one decides where their Gnosis is going. If there is a
dispute, than the person who is performing the rite
decides where the Gnosis goes. Once the rite begins, the
Gnosis cannot be removed. The Gnosis then travels
through the water into the Garou and the rite is over—
the Garou do not have to drink the water to get the
Gnosis.
Gnosis may be stored by performing this rite with the
assistance of an invested, bound spirit who agrees to hold
the Gnosis and is accessed again by another use of the rite
(Investiture is discussed under “The Rite of Binding”).
There is no effective limit to the amount of Gnosis that
can be transferred, but Garou cannot possess a number of
Gnosis Traits higher than her Gnosis Pool.
Ritual of the Questing Stone— By enacting this rite,
the Garou forms a sympathetic magical link between the
subject and either a piece of the subject or a close
possession. This trinket is necessary to successfully cast
the rite and is destroyed in the casting. The Ritemaster
will feel a slight tug by the trinket in the direction of its
owner. The subject must be within one mile for the rite
to work. The magic fades after one hour. After the rite has
been performed, the player whose character is the
Ritemaster may ask any other player or Storyteller (out of
play, of course) where the subject was last seen. The
person who answers must answer honestly.
Rite of the Talisman Dedication— Normally, when
a Garou changes forms, her possessions are left behind or
destroyed. This rite is used to convince a minor spirit to
inhabit an item so that it will change with the Garou.
The exact cost varies.
One Gnosis— set of clothes, low tech item (knife,
jewelry, etc...)
Two Gnosis— handgun, small electronic device,
body armor
Three Gnosis— rifle, laptop computer
The rite is permanent unless the spirit is somehow
destroyed or released. In no case may a Garou have more
Traits worth of items bound to her than her total Gnosis
score. (Note that if an “inappropriate” technological
item, such as a Nintendo Game Boy or a power drill, is
bound by a Garou who isn’t a Bone Gnawer or Glass
Walker, that individual may lose Renown.)
Intermediate Rites
Rite of Becoming— This powerful rite can only be
performed at an Anchorhead domain. It allows the
Garou to travel into the Deep Umbra. The Umbra is a
potentially dangerous place; the Deep Umbra is worse.
Garou hurling themselves into this realm better be well-
prepared and capable of dealing with malefic entities. In
addition to the normal challenge, this rite costs three
Gnosis Traits to use.
Rite of Summoning— One of the most potentially
powerful of rites, the Rite of Summoning, enables a
Garou to call up a spirit from the Umbra. The Rite of
Summoning is possible because of the respect that most
spirits have for the Garou: they are, after all, the Defend-
ers of Gaia. It is only when this respect is abused or when
the Garou do not return respect that problems develop.
The Rite of Summoning takes at least thirty minutes
of game time. It is not something that is done in the
middle of combat. Part of the rite involves going to the
Spirit Keeper and informing her that you will have begun
preparations for a Rite of Summoning.
She will ask you the following questions:
• What type of spirit are you trying to summon?
• What is the affinity of the spirit are you trying to
summon?
• Have you summoned this spirit before? If so, do you
know its name?
• Are you searching for any spirit that meets this
description, or are you willing to accept any spirit that
comes?
She will then do a Static Gnosis Challenge with you.
The difficulty should be based on the type and affinity of
the spirit being called. Here are some guidelines. The
Spirit Keeper will need to tailor the difficulty to fit the
situation. Certainly a Ritualist should not be able to guess
the difficulty too easily.
A Garou can choose to spend Gnosis Traits before the
challenge to reduce the difficulty.
Unless the Garou is in the Umbra, she must first
overcome the Gauntlet in order to summon a spirit. This
is done either by spending a Mental Trait or a Gnosis
Trait. Summoning the spirit in the Umbra is much easier,
however. The Garou must step sideways first.
After approximately 30 minutes passes from the time
when the Ritualist first contacted the Spirit Keeper, she
will approach the Ritualist with either a “hat” with slips
of paper representing the potential spirits being sum-


Chapter Four: Characteristics
107
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
If the spirit wins the initial challenge, it may immedi-
ately depart. If the spirit loses, it will usually serve the
summoner to the best of its ability and then depart. A
Ritualist may use continued commanding tactics to get
the spirit to continue to serve him.
The amount of knowledge that the Spirit Keeper will
pass on to the summoner concerning the spirit she’s
summoned is pretty much determined by the relation-
ship between the summoner and the spirit. If it’s a good
one, and the spirit is likely to do anything that the
summoner asks, the Spirit Keeper can simply give a
“spirit sheet” to the summoner. Otherwise, she has to
arrange with the summoner exactly what he wants from
of the spirit and decide what happens as a result of the
spirit’s decision to obey or disobey.
Rite of Binding— This rite binds a spirit to a specific
real-world object or a specific place in the Umbra. The
object must be brought into the Umbra after being
dedicated by the Rite of Talisman Dedication.
There are three kinds of binding:
• Anchoring— This prevents a spirit from leaving
and gives the Ritualist the power to communicate with
the bound spirit. Thus, the spirit can use its charms and
senses to report to the Ritualist. This Binding is tempo-
rary, although it can be made permanent. Septs often
bind spirits in this manner to keep watch on the bawn in
the Umbra.
The cost of this kind of Binding is one Gnosis Trait,
plus one extra Gnosis Trait if the bound spirit is a Totem
or Incarna Avatar. The Ritualist must ask and receive
permission to bind the spirit in such a fashion. This can
either be a result of roleplaying or a result of several
successful Mental and Social Challenges. This version of
the Rite of Binding does not gain the Ritualist Notoriety.
To a spirit, this is the equivalent of “working a part-time
job.”
• Investiture— A spirit is bound into an item, which
then becomes a specific talen. The affinity of the spirit is
important for this. The enchanting Garou sacrifices a
Gnosis Trait and one other appropriate Trait in the
investiture, and must get permission from the spirit so
invested (see #1, above). The result is a talen. A talen
must have a spirit of an appropriate affinity (Bane Arrows
must have spirits of War in them, etc.).
• Imprisonment— A spirit is bound into an item,
which subsequently imprisons that spirit. The spirit can-
not break free unless someone breaks the object or the
binding. Usually a Garou wishing to imprison a spirit will
beat the spirit into submission and then, when the spirit
has only one Health Level remaining, enact the Rite of
Binding and imprison it. The Garou can communicate
with a spirit bound in this manner, although it cannot use
its Charms. It can, however, use its Mental and Social
Traits in challenges, particularly on unsuspecting Garou
who might be persuaded to break the prison and set the
Spirit Type
Basic Difficulty
Jaggling
4
Gaffling
5
Totem Avatar
6
Incarna Avatar
7
Affinity
Difficulty Modifier
Healing
+1
War
+2
Enigmas
0
Tribal Totem
-3
Pack Totem
-2
Wyrm
+3
Weaver
+2
Wyld
+3
Miscellaneous
Modifier
Summoned the spirit before
-1
Knows spirit’s name
-3
Lupus breed
-1
Theurge auspice
-1
On a mission for Gaia
-2
To fight the Wyrm
+2
To fight another Garou
+3
Will take any spirit
-4
Per extra Gnosis Trait spent
-1
Each Notoriety Trait of the summoner
+1
moned, or will simply prepare a “spirit sheet” for this rite.
She may wish to roleplay the initial contact with the
spirit. At any rate, Garou can choose to use one of six
basic tactics to get a spirit to serve him:
• You may politely request that a spirit do something.
This is usually followed up by an offer of reward (bargain-
ing requires a Social Challenge). A minor or major Geasa
may be “thrown into the pot” as an initial bid or added
later to an offer or counter-offer. This is the preferred
method for both spirits and Garou, and actually sets up a
potential future relationship between them.
• You may command a Spirit to do something, appeal-
ing to its sense of duty. This is usually followed by a threat
of some kind. (Leadership Social Challenge)
• You may challenge the spirit to a riddle game or some
other contest to vie for control, usually with some offer of
a Geasa-burden made by the summoner to balance out
the service of the spirit. (Enigmas Mental Challenge)
• You may use a Gift to command the spirit. Of course
this has its own potential problems.*
• You may use your prowess and strength to intimidate
the spirit (Intimidation Social Challenge).*
• You may attack the spirit and force it to agree to serve
you. (“Bullying” requires a Physical Challenge.)*
* You may gain Notoriety by using this method.


The Apocalypse
108
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
spirit free. Usually, by the time a spirit is freed after many
years of imprisonment, it is restored to full health and
power and is quite angry at the person who originally
bound it.
Regardless of whether a spirit is evil when it is bound,
the Ritualist gains an automatic Notoriety Trait just by
performing this version of the Rite of Binding.
The Rite of Binding requires 10 minutes of game time
and the attention of the Spirit Keeper.
Advanced Rites
Rite of the Fetish— The Rite of the Fetish takes a
spirit and permanently binds it into a prepared object.
The object then becomes a magical thing, a fetish with
specific powers. The object must be appropriate to the
fetish being created. It must be prepared with the follow-
ing rites: Rite of Cleansing, Rite of Talisman Dedication
and Rite of Spirit Awakening. This purifies the object,
binds the object to the Ritualist and creates a spiritual
“home” inside the object for the purpose of housing a
spirit.
Usually, a spirit is then either summoned or released
near the Ritualist in the Umbra. The spirit must be of a
type and affinity appropriate to the Fetish being created.
The Ritualist then must formally ask the spirit to enter
the fetish, and sacrifice an appropriate Trait (Physical for
a war-fetish, Mental for a mind-fetish, etc.). If the spirit
complies of its own accord, freely, then the fetish is
normal. If the spirit is compelled in any way, there is a
chance that the fetish will become cursed or possessed. A
cursed fetish can be cleansed through repeated Rites of
Cleansing and Gnosis sacrifices to the fetish. A possessed
fetish will use its powers only when it deems them to be
necessary. This is actually not so bad— a Garou might
think some people should not use the fetish. The Spirit
Keeper decides whether the fetish is cursed or possessed.
Casting this rite requires an hour of ritual and one
Gnosis Trait per “level” of spirit required. See the guide-
lines below for required spirit types:
Fetish Cost
Type
1
Gaffling
2
Jaggling
3
Totem Avatar
4-5
Incarna Avatar
Using the Rite of the Fetish automatically gains a
Ritualist two Notoriety Traits, regardless of how the rite
is conducted, although these can be negated by the use of
Major Geasa if the spirit is willing to allow that. Once the
rite is finished, the fetish must be wrapped in red cloth
(preferably silk) and sit for an entire month. This gives
the Spirit Keeper time to devise the rules and game
elements for the fetish.
Punishment Rites
In a race as isolated as the Garou, the regard and
fellowship of one’s peers is of paramount importance. It
is no surprise that their punishments for transgressions
rely so heavily on the pack, tribe and sept. This is usually
enough, but for truly heinous or repeated offenses, these
rites may be brought to bear.
Basic Rites
Rite of Ostracism— This rite serves as a punishment
by peers for those Garou who would commit lesser crimes
in the eyes of other Garou. The length of the rite varies
with the severity of the crime. It can be permanent, if
necessary. While under this sentence, the Garou is ig-
nored by other Garou, not allowed to participate in any
functions and may not use her status Traits. For all
practical purposes, they cease to exist. No challenge is
necessary. Players whose characters are subjected to this
rite will find themselves left out of plots and unable to
participate in the Garou portion of a session.
Intermediate Rites
Stone of Scorn— This rite is one of the more creative
punishments among the Garou and is reserved for crimes
of honor. The rite binds minor spirits of suffering and
shame to a large rock. The offender is positioned over it.
Any member of the tribe may hurl insults at the guilty
Garou. The punishment lasts one night, at which time
the target loses a Status Trait. This Trait is not regained
until the end of the next session. No challenge is neces-
sary.
Voice of the Jackal— When the Garou is found guilty
of an act of base cowardice, he can be subjected to this
rite. When the rite is performed, the Garou is cursed with
a shrill, high pitched voice (which she must roleplay) and
is two Traits down on any Social Challenges involving
speech. The rite which lasts for the entire session.
The Hunt— This rite is used on a Garou who is guilty
of a terrible crime against her people that only death can
exonerate. No Garou will offer the offender shelter or aid
and all will hunt her. Upon the Garou’s death, her honor
is restored. If the challenge is successful, the combat will
be begin (the hunted is inevitably killed). If the chal-
lenge fails, the prey has somehow escaped the area, but if
she returns, she will be killed on sight.
Satire Rite— A favorite rite of the Half-Moons and
the Moon Dancers, this ritual heaps ridicule and shame
upon a Garou. These poignant insults and ribald tales go
down in the permanent oral history of the Garou. No
challenge is necessary, and a Garou who is subjected to
this rite permanently loses a Glory or Honor Trait.


Chapter Four: Characteristics
109
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
extols the virtues of the supplicant, and while no chal-
lenge is made, any Garou who wish to dispute the claim
to Renown can do so. If the majority of Garou present
agree, the subject receives the Renown Trait.
Rite of Passage— This rite serves as the “coming of
age” ceremony for Garou. It is the time when their true
nature is awakened within them. They are introduced to
their fellows as well
as their heritage.
Usually, some quest
or trial must also be
performed instead of
a challenge. This
trail can vary greatly.
Without this rite, a
young Garou may
not question or chal-
lenge his elders and
has no voice what-
soever within Garou
society.
Rite of Wound-
ing— This rite is
held in high regards
among the more
martial tribes and
auspices. It cel-
ebrates the first
wound a Garou re-
ceives in true battle.
It is generally pre-
sided 
over 
by
Ahroun regardless of
the subject’s auspice.
If it is neglected,
other Garou will se-
riously doubt the
new warrior’s com-
petence and prowess.
This is particularly
true of Ahroun, who
will challenge any
Rite of Accomplish-
ment until the Rite of Wounding is performed.
Seasonal Rites
In ancient times, the Garou, men, women and wolves
had to be keenly aware of the seasons. Failing to do so
would mean starving in the bitter winter cold, broiling in
the summer heat or not being prepared for the fertile
spring or abundant autumn. On a grander scale, the
seasons reflect Gaia’s own mortal cycle of yearly renewal.
Advanced Rites
The Rending of the Veil— When used on a human,
this rite dispels the protection of the Veil so that she can
see the Garou in all their glory. The rite lasts for an entire
night, but few will survive the fury of the Garou for that
long.
Gaia’s Vengeful
Teeth— This hideous
rite is reserved for
Garou guilty of the
foulest and most hor-
rible crimes, such as
consorting with the
Wyrm, killing or caus-
ing the death of her
fellow Garou and the
like. The rite is per-
manent and causes
any natural surface the
victim touches to
transform into razor
sharp silver with ev-
ery step. Furthermore,
it prevents the Garou
from stepping side-
ways. The cursed
Garou is then chased
into the ground. Ev-
ery step taken by the
character requires a
Static Physical Chal-
lenge against ten
Traits; if the charac-
ter fails, he takes an
aggravated wound.
Standing still will in-
flict wounds at a rate
of one wound every
three seconds.
Rites of
Renown
These rites serve to reward Garou who distinguish
themselves in any of the Garou virtues. Many Garou
dream of frequently receiving the accolades of these rites.
Basic Rites
Rite of Accomplishment— When a Garou performs
a great deed against the Wyrm or shows uncommon
valor, her peers may choose to perform this rite in her
honor. The Rite of Accomplishment is generally enacted
in the Stories and Songs portion of a moot and is almost
invariably presided over by Galliards. Its purpose is to
award a Garou Renown for a recent deed. The Ritemaster


The Apocalypse
110
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Basic Rites
Rite of the Hunting Grounds— The Garou using this
rite may choose to mark a single area as her own. After
doing so, Garou and natural wolves will instantly recog-
nize this mark. Others with enhanced sensory powers will
realize something is strange, but will not recognize its
importance without an Occult Mental Challenge (risk-
ing two Traits).
Backgrounds
Backgrounds represent special advantages the charac-
ter possesses by virtue of birth, hard work or plain luck.
No more than five points may be allocated to a single
Background. Backgrounds help to define the character
and set him apart as an individual. They should be chosen
to flesh out the player’s conception of her character
rather than bolster her character’s power and effective-
ness. Unlike Gifts, Attributes or Abilities, Backgrounds
may be lost during the course of play. Furthermore, they
do not generally increase through experience (although
some do).
Pure Breed
The Garou hold their dead heroes and mystics in high
regard. To actually share the same blood as one of these
Garou of Renown bestows a great honor, as well as
responsibility. All other Garou automatically sense the
noble lineage within the bearer. A character with the
Pure Breed background gains an additional Social Trait
for each level of Pure Breed— these Traits may only be
used in challenges with other Garou. In exchange, those
“of the blood” are expected to live up to the standards of
their famous ancestors and are given far less lenience
than other “common” stock Garou.
Past Life
The Garou can call upon the knowledge of his dead
ancestors in times of need. For each level of Past Life, the
Garou may try to use an Ability she does not have or has
already expended. To do so, the player must win a Simple
Test. Additionally, the Storyteller may rule that certain
Abilities are not accessible to the character in this
manner. This may only be attempted once per session per
level taken. Roleplaying this Background can be quite
entertaining.
Fetish
Many cultures have a tradition of passing on physical
items that are held in high regard by the young. Among
the Garou, this tradition is especially important because
the relics of their past are often totems of mystical power.
A Garou who carries one of these items may draw upon
its powers. Being chosen to carry one of these items is a
great honor to the Garou and should be taken very
seriously. The Storyteller will assign a fetish appropriate
to the level of Background taken.
Rites
The Garou has been introduced to the mysteries of the
rites and celebration of her race. She knows the tradi-
tions and trappings of these rites and can identify them
by drawing upon her knowledge of them (the player must
win or tie on a Static Challenge). Furthermore, she may
have been taught how to perform a few of these rites.
One Point — Has knowledge of Basic Rites
Two Points — Has knowledge of Basic Rites and can
perform one Basic Rite
Three Points — Has knowledge of Basic and Interme-
diate Rites, or has knowledge of Basic Rites and can
perform two Basic Rites
Four Points — Has knowledge of Basic, Intermediate
and Advanced Rites, or has knowledge of Basic and
Intermediate Rites and can perform three Basic Rites
Five Points — Has knowledge of Basic, Intermediate
and Advanced Rites and can perform three Basic Rites
and one Intermediate Rite.
Individual Rites may be learned by any Garou who can
find a willing teacher and pays the appropriate experi-
ence cost. Teachers often ask would-be students for hefty
favors or require difficult quests before passing on their
guarded knowledge.
Influence
A Garou with Influence Traits has gained a certain
degree of control in aspects of normal human society.
While many Garou shun taking such an active role in
human affairs, others see it as the only way to keep
accurate tabs on certain organizations and groups. Other
forms of influence can reflect access to contacts, allies or
the aid of Kinfolk.
Possible areas of influence include the following:
• Bureaucracy — city government
• Church — religious establishments
• Finance — big business
• Health — hospitals, morgues, etc.
• High Society — rich dilettantes and art community
• Industry — unions, steel mills, etc.
• Legal — lawyers, judges, etc.
• Media — television, radio, newspapers
• Occult — cult leaders, occult bookstore owners, etc.
• Police — local law enforcement
• Politics — politicians
• Street — street-level crime
• Transportation — bus terminals, airlines, harbor
masters
• Underworld — organized crime


Chapter Four: Characteristics
111
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
One area of influence may be chosen for every level of
this Background. Note that Influence does not give you
knowledge of a particular area (Abilities handle that),
but it does give you sway over a certain area of human
society.
A character with influence is usually given Influence
Cards to represent the areas of influence he controls.
Influences may be
spent during the game
to affect an area of so-
ciety. Some influences
may even allow you to
gain something that
you desire. Turning
your Finance Influ-
ence into quick cash is
one example. In most
cases where Influence
is spent, a challenge is
not necessary. Influ-
ence Cards spent in
this fashion are re-
turned 
at 
the
beginning of the next
session. Influence may
also be loaned to oth-
ers. In this case, the
card is given to another
player and is not re-
turned to its owner
until after it is spent or
it is returned.
Totem
When a pack is
formed, its members
often choose a totem
spirit to watch over
them. This spirit is the
summoned by all the
members of the pack
and is created using the
total score of the pack’s
Totem Background.
Costs to build the spirit are as follows:
One point
Provides three Traits to divide among
the Totem’s Willpower, Rage or Gnosis
(minimum of one each)
One point
The totem can speak
One point
The totem can locate and appear in
the presence of any pack member
Two points The totem spend the majority of its
time around the pack and is readily
available to them.
Two points The totem has a degree of respect
among fellow spirits (may retest a single
Social Challenge with a spirit per ses-
sion)
Five points
Totem can contact and interact with
the Physical world for brief periods of
time when the need is great.
Willpower, Rage and
Gnosis
The following
Traits allow the
Garou to perform mi-
raculous feats beyond
human capacity.
These Traits are not
represented as adjec-
tives— they are a
pool from which the
character may draw.
These Traits can be
represented 
by
cards— a card is torn
up when a Trait is
used.
Willpower
Within each of us,
we have the ability
to do incredible
things. In times of ca-
tastrophe, ordinary
people have been
known to perform
extraordinary feats. If
the circumstances
are just right, an av-
erage person could
lift an automobile to
save a pinned pedes-
trian or run through
a burning building to
save a trapped child.
A determined man
can even fight death itself if he truly has the will to live.
In The Apocalypse, this ability to do the near impossible
is governed by a Trait known as Willpower. Willpower
gives a character the extra strength necessary to over-
come obstacles and succeed where others would give up
and fail.
Each character begins the game with a number of
Willpower Traits. For Garou, the number of Traits de-
pends on the character’s tribe. These Willpower Traits
can be used for almost anything that the player deems
important. A few examples of how Willpower can be
used by Garou are listed below.


The Apocalypse
112
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
she is no more than a mindless instrument of destruc-
tion— a perfect tool of the Wyrm.
Rage Traits are not described as adjectives. Each charac-
ter has a Rage rating. Rage Cards can be used to represent a
character’s rage: a Rage Card is torn up when a Rage Trait
is used.
Using Rage
Rage can be used
in many ways, de-
pending on the
needs of the charac-
ter. 
Several
examples of how
Rage can be used in
the course of a story
are listed below.
• 
Changing
Forms — Changing
forms is easier with
the use of Rage. By
expending a Rage
Trait, you are able
to change into an-
other 
form
immediately. Oth-
erwise, changing
into another form
takes a number of
seconds equal to the
number of Social
Traits you possess;
you may, however,
take your natural
form automatically
without spending
Rage.
• Extra Action—
Rage can give the
character the abil-
ity to perform extra
feats during a chal-
lenge. This means
that a character can
challenge several players to different tests at the same
time with no penalty. The number of players challenged
depends on the number of Rage Traits spent.
• Extra Attacks— A werewolf can also use Rage to
attack with greater frequency and ferocity. A Garou who
has just won a Physical Challenge (attacking someone)
can immediately expend a Rage Trait and do a second
test to attempt to inflict a second wound on a foe. This
test occurs before a new challenge can begin. Further-
more, the Garou who expended Rage cannot be wounded
as a result of this second test, unless, of course, his
• Willpower can be used to negate the effects of frenzy
(by using a Willpower Trait, the character gains a new
tolerance of the situation that would ordinarily throw her
into frenzy).
• Willpower allows the character to replenish all of
her lost Traits in any one category: Physical, Social or
Mental.
• Willpower al-
lows a character to
ignore the side effects
of wounds, such as In-
capacitation, for one
challenge.
• A Willpower
Trait can be expended
to negate the effects of
any one Mental or So-
cial Challenge.
Once a Willpower
point has been used, it
is gone until the end of
the story. At that time,
the character regains
all Willpower used dur-
ing the course of the
story. It is possible that
a Narrator may choose
to give a character
Willpower during the
course of a story as a
reward for exceptional
roleplaying. Such a re-
ward would be given
for playing a Nature
appropriately, acting
out a Derangement in
an appropriate fashion
or any other reason the
Narrator deems suit-
able. This should not,
however, be a common
occurrence.
Rage
Rage is the all-consuming passion inherent in every
Garou. It is also what she uses to change form, turning
from her natural state, Lupus or Homid, to the various
forms known to the Changing Breed. Rage is a tool of
destruction, of anger and violence. It can be a dark
impulse pushing the Garou to acts of senseless bloodshed
and murder. When used constructively against the forces
of the Wyrm, this violence can be a useful thing, destroy-
ing the enemies of Gaia and protecting the world from
destruction and the coming Apocalypse. But rage must
be tempered, because if it overwhelms the wielder, then


Chapter Four: Characteristics
113
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
opponent has also spent Rage (or Celerity, in the case of
vampires).
For example, if a character is being attacked by two
opponents at the same time, the defending character can
spend a Rage Trait to acquire an extra action. Thus, he
will be able to defend himself against both opponents in
a challenge while suffering no penalty.
• Remaining Active: When a character becomes
Incapacitated from losing a challenge, she may use a Rage
Trait to bring herself up one Health Level so that she may
continue to fight.
Once a character loses all of her Rage, she is no longer
able to change forms. She has “lost the wolf” within and
will revert to her natural form, whether that is Lupus or
Homid.
Regaining Rage:
• The Moon: When the character first sees the moon
at night, something deep in his soul surges. The character
regains one Rage Trait.
• Confrontation: At the beginning of any new con-
flict in which a challenge is involved, the character
regains a Rage Trait. Only one Rage Trait is regained
during the confrontation, regardless of the number of
challenges.
• Wounds: The first time a Garou is wounded in an
evening, he regains a Rage Trait. This is only done once
per day.
• Humiliation: The character may regain a Rage Trait
during a particularly humiliating situation. Awarding
this Trait is the Narrator’s option.
Gnosis
Gnosis is the power of Gaia within a Garou. It is her
power made real. Garou gain Gnosis as part of their
connection with Her. They lose Gnosis when they use
Her power to affect reality or make permanent changes.
 Beginning Gnosis is determined by breed, because the
birth of a Garou establishes his initial connection to
Gaia. You may gain extra Gnosis Traits by spending
experience and becoming more spiritually aware in a
roleplaying sense— either through meditation or guid-
ance.
Gnosis Traits are used in Gifts and rites, and one
Gnosis Trait can be spent to immediately step sideways
into the Umbra (see “Spirit”, Stepping Sideways).
Garou have both Gnosis Traits and a Gnosis Pool. The
Gnosis Pool determines how many Gnosis Traits a Garou
can store within herself. Gnosis Traits can be bid and
spent in Static Challenges just like other Traits.
Garou regain their spent Gnosis Traits in the follow-
ing ways:
• Meditation: You must have the Meditation Ability
to do this. A Garou may spend a Mental Trait and get a
Gnosis Trait if she has ten minutes to meditate alone. Of
course, this must be a relevant Mental Trait.
• Fetish: A Garou may gain Gnosis from a fetish, such
as a Tear of Renewal (see “Fetishes”).
• Spirits: A Garou may gain Gnosis through an
Engling spirit. Either by summoning the Engling or
running across it in the Umbra, the Garou must convince
the Engling to give itself up for the benefit of the Garou.
If it agrees, the Engling will give itself up to the Garou,
and, in death, it will recharge all the Gnosis Pools of the
Garou participating. The Spirit Keeper has the option of
complicating this process.
•Rites: A Garou may gain Gnosis through the Rite of
the Cup (see Spirit Rites, below), although this Gnosis is
actually shared Gnosis, and it must come from another
Garou or a spirit.
In the Umbra, a Gnosis Trait may be spent to change
the reality of the Umbra in some fashion— you may use
one to step through an Umbral wall, hide your Umbral
form briefly or provide some light in darkness.
Unless a Gift specifies otherwise, you may not spend
Rage and Gnosis during the same challenge.


The Apocalypse
114
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Five: Rules
115
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
“Rules! We’ve got some rules around this house...”
—Grandpa, “The Lost Boys”
Chapter Five:
Rules
There are times when a player will want to have her
character do something that can’t be accomplished
through simple roleplaying, such as attacking another
person, picking a lock or even searching for a file in a
computer system. When this happens, you need rules.
Rules are an important part of any game: they define
what can and cannot be done. Without them, there
would be no winners or losers— in effect, there would be
no limits. Your limitations and parameters help to define
who you are and give you a sense of accomplishment
when you manage to triumph over others.
Still, the primary focus of this game is to tell a good
story, and it’s always best to try to defeat your opponents
through roleplaying and manipulation rather than by
direct confrontation. When confrontation does occur,
rules are necessary to govern those situations.
Time
 Time in Mind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real
life. It moves forward inexorably, relentlessly. For the
most part, everything is played out in real time, and
players are expected to stay in character unless they have
a rules question.
During the course of a story, it is assumed that a player
is always “in character.” A player should never drop
character when interacting with other players. Doing so
ruins the atmosphere for everyone involved. Challenges
may be talked through, but a player is always considered
to be active in the game. If a player needs to take a break,
he should inform a Narrator. That player should not
interact with any of the other players while out of
character.
The only other exception is when a Narrator calls for
a “time out.” This may be necessary to resolve a dispute
or to change the scene if the story calls for it. When
“Time Out!” is called, all players within hearing distance
must stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator
calls out the word “Resume.” Time outs should be kept to
a minimum, since they interrupt the flow of the story.
Challenges
“Mr. Lee, are you ready?”
—nameless toady, “Enter the Dragon”
During the course of most stories, there will come a
time when two or more players will come into a conflict
that cannot be resolved through roleplaying alone. This
system allows for the resolving of conflicts simply and
quickly, whether they’re firefights or tests of will. This
face-off is called a challenge. In most cases, a Narrator
does not need to be present when a challenge is played.


The Apocalypse
116
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Initial Bid
A challenge begins by a player “bidding” one of her
Traits against her opponent. At the same time, she must
declare what the conditions of the challenge are, i.e.
firing a gun, attacking with a stake, etc. The defender
must then decide how she will respond. She can either
relent immediately or bid one of her own Traits in
response.
When players bid Traits against one another, they
may only use Traits that could sensibly be used in that
situation. Essentially, this means a player can usually
only use Traits from the same category as her opponent’s
Traits. Most challenges are categorized as Physical, So-
cial or Mental, and all Traits used in a challenge must be
from the same category. Experienced players may offer
each other more creative leeway, but that is strictly by
mutual agreement.
If the defender relents, she automatically loses the
challenge. For example, if she were being attacked, she
would suffer a wound.  If she matches the challenger’s bid,
the two immediately go to a test (described below).
Those Traits bid are put at risk, as the loser of the test not
only loses the challenge, but the Trait she bid as well.
Testing
Once both of the players involved in a challenge have
bid their Traits, they immediately go to a test. The test
itself is not what you may think— the outcome is ran-
Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a
challenge begins. Experienced players can seamlessly
integrate a challenge into their roleplaying so that out-
siders don’t know that anything unusual is going on. At
the player’s option, hand signals can be used to indicate
when certain Traits and powers are being employed.
Lastly, in order for this system to work, players need to
work together. Players need to educate each other on the
rules and agree on what Traits can be used in a challenge.
Compromise and cooperation are the bywords of the
game.
The challenge system presented in this chapter is also
part of the basic rules for the Mind’s Eye Theater system.
By combining Apocalypse with other games in the series,
players can have werewolves interact with vampires,
wraiths, mortals and other types of characters. This
system of challenges is also included in Masquerade
Second Edition.
Using Traits
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work,
you must first understand what defines a character’s
abilities. A character is created by choosing a number of
adjectives that describe and define that person as an
individual. These adjectives are called Traits and are
fully described in Chapter Three. These Traits are used
to declare a challenge against another character or against
a static force represented by a Narrator.


Chapter Five: Rules
117
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
dom, but no cards or dice are used. The two players face
off against one another by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors.
It may sound a little silly, but it works.
If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you used. The
Trait is lost for the duration of the story (this usually
means the rest of the evening). Essentially, you’ve lost
some of your self-confidence in your own capabilities.
You can no longer use that Trait effectively, at least until
you regain confidence in your Traits.
The test works like the moment in poker when the
cards are turned over and the winner is declared. From
the test, there may be one of two outcomes: either one
player is the victor or the result is a tie.
In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the
number of Traits that they possess in the category used
(Physical, Social or Mental). The player with the least
number of Traits loses the test and therefore loses the
challenge. Note that the number of Traits you’ve lost in
previous challenges, or lost for any other reason, will
affect this total. The trick to the declaration is that you
may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only
by declaring less Traits than you actually have— you may
never lie and say that you have more Traits than you
actually do. This allows you to keep the actual number of
Traits you possess a secret, although doing so may be
risky. The challenger is always the first to declare his
number of Traits. If both players declare the same num-
ber of Traits, then the challenge is a draw and both
players lose the Traits they bid.
Example of Play: Helen, a Black Fury, is attacking
Grady, a Bone Gnawer. Helen begins by bidding the Physical
Trait: Ferocious (“I am Ferocious as I sink my teeth into your
shoulder...”); Grady, who is only interested in surviving her
attack and escaping, bids the Trait: Resilient (“But even as
you bite through my three layers of dirty t-shirts, I know I’m
Resilient enough to shrug it off!”)  Helen and Grady decide to
test. They both play “rock”— a draw. Helen, who is the
attacker, must decide how many of her seven Traits she wishes
to declare. She has nothing to hide, so she declares all seven.
Grady, who is a Ragabash, only has five Physical Traits. He
loses the test. Grady will also lose his Physical Trait of
Resilient and will take one wound level. Furthermore, Grady
will not escape, and Helen can attack him again if she chooses
to continue.
Incidentally, certain advanced powers allow some
characters to use gestures other than Rock, Paper and
Scissors. Before they can use the gestures in a test, they
must explain what they are and how they are used.
Rock-Paper-Scissors
If you don’t happen to know (or remember) what we
mean by Rock-Paper-Scissors, here’s the concept: you
and another person face off and, on the count of three,
show one of three hand gestures. “Rock” is just a basic fist.
“Paper” is just a flat hand. “Scissors” is represented by
sticking out two fingers. You then compare the two
gestures to determine the winner.  Rock crushes Scissors.
Scissors cuts Paper. Paper covers Rock. Identical signs
indicate a tie.
Adjudication
If you have question or argument about the rules or the
conditions of a challenge, you need to find a Narrator to
make a judgment. Try to remain in character while
looking for a Narrator. Any interruption in the progress
of the story should be avoided, so work problems out with
other players if at all possible. If you don’t know the exact
correct application of a certain rule, it would be best to
wing it rather than interrupt the flow of the story.
Cooperation is the key to telling a good story.
Complications
There are a number of ways in which a challenge can
be complicated. The above rules are enough to resolve
most disputes, but the following rules help to add a few
bells and whistles.
Negative Traits
Many characters have Negative Traits: these are Traits
that can be used against a character by his opponent.
During the initial bid of any challenge, after you have
each bid one Trait, you can call out a Negative Trait that
you believe your opponent possesses. If he does indeed
possess the Negative Trait, your opponent is forced to bid
Rock
Paper
Scissors


The Apocalypse
118
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
an additional Trait, although you must still risk your one
Trait as usual. If he does not possess that Negative Trait,
you must risk an additional Trait. You may call out as
many Negative Traits as you wish during the initial bid
phase of a challenge, as long as you can pay the price if
you’re wrong.
If your opponent does not have additional Traits to
bid, then your Trait is not at risk during the challenge.
Additionally, if you guess more than one Negative Trait
that your opponent cannot match, you gain that many
additional Traits in the case of a tie or an overbid. The
same works in reverse, favoring your opponent if you do
not have additional Traits remaining to match incorrect
Negative Trait guesses.
Example of Play: Ray, a Shadow Lord Galliard, is using
his Persuasion Gift and challenging Camille, a Toreador
vampire, in a Social Challenge. He bids his Trait: Command-
ing (“My Commanding tone of voice overwhelms you as a
sudden breeze blows through the room.”), and she responds
with Alluring (“I stand by the door, aloof and Alluring, while
you act like an arrogant fool.”). Ray then suggests that she is
also Condescending (“You may be Condescending, but I can
tell you’re intrigued.”). However, Camille does not posses
this Negative Trait (“I’m not Condescending, I merely detest
your arrogance.”). Therefore Ray would have to risk an
additional Social Trait, such as Persuasive (“Perhaps I can be
Persuasive enough to convince you to stay?”) if he wished to
continue the challenge.
It can be risky to bid Negative Traits, but if you’re sure
about what you’re doing, you can raise the stakes for your
opponent, possibly even to the point where she relents
rather than risking additional Traits. Just make sure your
sources of information are dependable.
Overbidding
Overbidding is the system by which elder Garou (who
often have considerably more Traits than younger oppo-
nents) may prevail in a challenge, even if they lose the
initial test. An elder Garou with 18 Social Traits should
be able to crush a cub with five. This system is designed
to make that possible.
Once the test has been made, the loser has the option
of calling for an “overbid.” In order to call an overbid, you
must also risk a new Trait; the original one has already
been lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the
number of Traits they possess, starting with the player
who called for an overbid.  If you have double the number
of Traits as your opponent in the appropriate category,
you may attempt another test. As with a tie, you may state
a  number of Traits less than the actual number you have
and keep your true power secret. This can be dangerous,
though, unless you are completely confident in your
estimation of your opponent’s abilities.
Example of Play: Sir Godfrey, a Silver Fang Ahroun, has
decided to crush a whelp Fianna Ragabash like a bug. A test
was called, and Sir Godfrey lost. At this point, Sir Godfrey,
confident of his abilities, calls for an overbid. Sir Godfrey is in
Crinos form and has 15 Physical Traits, and the poor Fianna,
Connor, is in Homid form and only has five Physical Traits.
Sir Godfrey risks an additional Trait: Relentless. (“As I show
my contempt for your insolence, I Relentlessly swing again!”)
They do a second test. This time they tie. Sir Godfrey clearly
has more Traits and therefore wins. At the end of this
challenge, Sir Godfrey has lost the initial Trait he bid from the
first test. However, because he overbid, he has won the
challenge and wounded Connor. (“You reel from the force of
my blow!”) Connor has also lost the initial Trait he bid
because Sir Godfrey has won the second test. (“Show mercy
on a poor Ragabash! I was only joking!”)
Static Challenges
Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge
against a Narrator rather than against another player,
such as when you are trying to pick a lock or summon a
spirit.  In such circumstances, you merely bid the Trait
that would be appropriate, then immediately perform a
test against the Narrator. Before the test is made, the
Narrator decides on the difficulty of the task you are
attempting. The test proceeds exactly as it would if you
were testing against another character. Of course, you
may overbid in a static action, but beware, because the
Narrator can overbid as well.
Example of Play: Steps-in-Gum wants to convince a
spirit to help him. This would be a Social Challenge. Steps-in-
Gum has six Social Traits, while the spirit, a Gaffling, has
only four Social Traits. Steps-in-Gum does a Static Social
Challenge with a Narrator and wins. Steps-in-Gum has
successfully convinced the Gaffling to help him.
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such
as books, doors or even fetishes. These notes indicate the
type of challenge that must be won for something to
occur (such as understanding a book, opening a door or
identifying a fetish). With experience, you may learn
how difficult it is to open a locked door. However,
difficulty ratings can be as different as lock types.
Simple Tests
Simple Tests are used to determine if you can do
something successfully when there is no real opposition.
Simple Tests are often used when using Gifts. Most
Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits,
though some may.
When a Simple Test is called, a test (rock-paper-
scissors) is done against the Narrator. Unless otherwise
specified, the player succeeds on a win or a tie.
Health
A character in The Apocalypse has five Health Lev-
els; these represent the amount of injury the character
has suffered. These levels are: Healthy, Bruised, Wounded,
Incapacitated and Mortally Wounded. If a healthy char-


Chapter Five: Rules
119
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
acter loses a combat challenge, she becomes Bruised. If
she loses two, she becomes Wounded, and so on.
• Bruised —  When a character is Bruised, she is only
slightly injured, having perhaps suffered a few scrapes
and bruises, but little more until she is healed. In order to
enter a new challenge, she must risk an additional Trait.
Thus, to even have a chance in a challenge, a Bruised
character  must bid at least two Traits.
Example of Play: Howls-at-Dawn has just been on the
losing end of a challenge. Howls-at-Dawn is again assaulted
by his foe, Logan. However, this time, Howls-at-Dawn must
now risk two Traits in order to defend himself from Logan.
Logan, however, only needs to risk one Trait.
• Wounded — When a character is Wounded, she is
badly hurt. She might be bleeding freely from open
wounds, and may even have broken bones. She must bid
two Traits to have a chance in a challenge. In addition,
she will always lose on a tie, even if she has more Traits
than her opponent. If she has less Traits, her opponent
gets a free extra test.
Example: Howls-at-Dawn has now been wounded by
Logan. Logan continues to press the attack. Howls-at-Dawn
is in pretty bad shape now. He must again risk two Physical
Traits. However, Howls-at-Dawn has also lost the past two
challenges to Logan. Because of this, Howls-at-Dawn has
already lost three Physical Traits. He has considerably less
Physical Traits than Logan, so he will not only lose on ties, but
Logan will now get two tests to see if he can incapacitate
Howls-at-Dawn. If Logan wins or ties either of these two
tests, Howls- at-Dawn will be Incapacitated.
• Incapacitated — When a character is Incapaci-
tated, she is completely out of play for at least ten
minutes. Once awake, the character is still immobile and
may not enter into challenges until she has healed at least
one Health Level. She is at the mercy of other characters.
She may not change forms until she is conscious.
• Mortally Wounded — When a character is Mortally
Wounded, she is near death. She also immediately re-
verts to her breed form (her “natural form”). One Physical
Trait is lost for every ten minutes she remains without
medical assistance. Ten minutes after her last Physical
Trait is expended, she dies.
Battle Scars
Each time a character is mortally wounded, she gets a
battle scar. These battle scars can add up; each one is
nastier than the last. However, battle scars are also
worthy of renown, for they show, indisputably, that the
Garou has faced great peril and survived. The first three
battle scars are light scars. Light battle scars rarely both-
ersome— they will occasionally itch during winter. The
next two battle scars are deep scars. Deep scars offer a one
Trait penalty if an opponent specifically targets them.
However, if an opponent does that, she will probably lose
Honor Renown. Finally, after a character has been mor-
tally wounded five times, serious, permanent injuries will
begin to result. The following list includes some possibili-
ties. The players or Narrators can choose one injury they
feel is appropriate for the circumstances, or they can
choose randomly.


The Apocalypse
120
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
• Improper Bone Setting— One of the limbs has been
set improperly. The character has the added Negative
Physical Trait: Lame.
• Skull Head— The side of your head was bashed in,
and even though the wound has healed, part of your skull
can still be seen. The character gains the Negative Social
Trait: Hideous.
• Broken Jaw— Your jaw was broken and did not
reset properly. You have trouble speaking and cannot
always make yourself understood verbally. This should be
roleplayed.
• Missing Eye— One of your eyes is gone. You lack
depth perception. You must risk twice as many Traits
involving any perception-based challenges or range-
based challenges, such as noticing something hidden or
operating a firearm at anything other than close range.
• Collapsed Lung— Your lung was punctured in
battle and you now have trouble breathing. Wheeze a lot.
You also gain the Negative Physical Trait of either
Decrepit or Lethargic.
• Missing Fingers —  One of your hands has lost
several fingers. Your claw attacks will only do aggravated
damage if you risk an additional Physical Trait in a
challenge. You also gain the Negative Physical Trait:
Clumsy.
• Severe Damage — If a character already has several
major Battle Scars, the Narrator may elect to give her
more permanent damage. This could mean completely
losing a limb, suffering from spinal cord damage or even
sustaining brain damage. The exact nature of the battle
scar and its impact on the character are at the discretion
of the Narrator.
Healing
Werewolves heal wounds at a very rapid pace, recov-
ering one Health Level every five minutes, unless the
damage is aggravated (see below). However, Garou in
Homid form do not heal any faster than any other
human. Additionally, a Garou must remain still while
healing. He may not engage in any other actions or
participate in  challenges.
Aggravated Wounds
 Wounds that cannot be healed by the Garou’s natural
healing powers are called aggravated wounds. Such
wounds are usually caused by injury from fire, silver or the
claws or teeth of another Garou, vampire or other super-
natural entity. A Storyteller can deem any injury to be
aggravated, depending on the circumstances. A full night
of rest is required to heal one level of aggravated damage.
Silver
Silver is the bane of all Garou. All Garou suffer one
Health Level of aggravated damage for every ten seconds
they remain in contact with silver. Likewise, any wounds
caused by silver weapons cause aggravated damage.


Chapter Five: Rules
121
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Mob Scene
During the course of many stories, you are inevitably
going to be drawn into a challenge in which several
people want to be involved. Mutiparty challenges can be
confusing, but if you follow these simple guidelines, you
shouldn’t have much difficulty. These rules are most
useful in combat challenges, but they can be used with
nearly any sort of group challenge.
The first thing you need to do is decide who is chal-
lenging whom. This is usually obvious, but when it’s not,
you need a quick way to work things out. Simply have
everyone involved count to three at the same time. On
three, each player points at the individual he is challeng-
ing.
The first challenge that must be resolved involves the
person who has the most people pointing at him. Deter-
mine what the appropriate category of Traits would be—
Physical, Social or Mental. Each player pointing at the
defender must bid one appropriate Trait. This group must
also choose a leader. The defender must then bid as many
Traits as there are people opposing him. If he does not
have enough Traits to do so, he automatically loses the
challenge. If he does have enough Traits, a test is per-
formed between the defender and the chosen leader of
the attackers. The rest of the challenge continues as
normal, although any comparison of Traits or overbid-
ding may only be done by the group leader.
If the defender wins the test, he is unharmed, but he
can choose to affect one member of the attacking group.
Usually, as in the case of a combat, this would mean
inflicting one wound. Additionally, all Traits bid by the
attackers are lost. If the attackers win, they may inflict
one wound, and the defender loses all the Traits he had
risked.
After the first challenge is concluded, go on to the
next one. Continue the process until each character who
has declared an action has been the target of a challenge
or has donated Traits.
Order of Challenges
Some people question exactly what a player can re-
spond with when he has been challenged. Typically, if
someone initiates a Physical Challenge, the defender can
only respond with Physical Traits, unless he possesses a
Gift or some other ability which is considered to be
always active. He cannot respond with the use of a Gift
or another Ability until after the first challenge has been
completed. Social and Mental Challenges work the same
way.
The only exception to this is when a character chooses
to spend Rage as a defensive action. A point of Rage will
allow the defender to pre-empt the action and activate a
Gift as a defensive action. However, keep in mind that a
Garou cannot spend Rage and Gnosis in the same turn
unless a Gift specifies otherwise.


The Apocalypse
122
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Six: Systems
123
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
This chapter discusses some of the additional rules and
complications that sometimes come into play in The
Apocalypse. It also describes a multitude of different
systems for resolving character interactions. However,
this chapter is more a set of permutations than a set of
rules. There is nothing  contained in the next several pages
that you need to know, only things that you might want
to know. These are complications that can add more
detail and depth to the game.
Combat
“Finish him! Shang Tsung...wins. Fatality.”
—Mortal Kombat II
The basic challenge system used in The Apocalypse
has already been presented in Chapter Five. This section
contains a few basic modifications to the combat system
and elaboration on it.
Combat is the usual intent behind Physical Chal-
lenges. Essentially, combat involves two characters in
physical conflict. The players agree what the outcome of
the challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate
Trait, and a test is resolved, determining the victor. The
following rules allow for variances to those basic rules,
such as situations involving surprise or weapons.
The agreed outcome of a Physical Challenge usually
involves the loser being injured. This is not, however, the
only result possible. For instance, you could say that you
want to wrest a weapon from your opponent’s hands or
that you’re trying to trip him. The result can be nearly
anything the two parties agree upon, whether that’s
simply raking someone with claws or dramatically throw-
ing someone through a window. The results of a combat
challenge may also be different for both participants.
(For example, a frenzied Silver Fang elder is trying to rake
a Child of Gaia fostern with his claws— the Child of Gaia
might try to restrain him instead of hurting him).
Surprise
If a player does not respond within three seconds of the
declaration of a Physical Challenge, the player is consid-
ered surprised: he is not fully prepared for what’s coming.
Sometimes a player is busy with another activity, doesn’t
hear a challenge or is playing a character who just isn’t
prepared for an attack (e.g., the character is led into an
 Chapter Six:
Systems
“You’re not allowed animals. It’s a rule.”
“Rules to which I am not subject!”
—A Maid and #6, The Prisoner, “Dance of the Dead”


The Apocalypse
124
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
ambush). It is considered highly improper to sneak around
whispering challenges to try to get an element of surprise.
Surprise simply means that the outcome of the first
challenge in a fight can only harm the surprised defender,
not the challenger. For instance, if a player did not
respond in time to an attack, but still won the challenge,
the challenger would not be injured. Furthermore, if the
challenger loses the test by risking another Trait, she may
call for a second challenge, since she was operating from
the benefit of surprise. With the second challenge, play
continues as usual and winners and losers of a challenge
are determined as normal.
Surprise is only in effect for the first challenge of a
conflict; all further challenges are resolved normally, as
explained below.
Weapons
No real weapons are ever allowed in Mind’s Eye
Theatre games, for obvious reasons. Even nonfunctional
props are forbidden if they can be mistaken for weapons.
This system does not use props of any kind, nor are players
required (or allowed) to strike one another. Weapons are
purely an abstraction in this game. Weapon Cards, which
display the facts and statistics of a particular weapon, can
be used instead. The damage a weapon inflicts is limited
only by mutual agreement, although it is generally as-
sumed that an injury incurred from a blow reduces the
target by a Health Level.
A weapon gives its wielder extra Traits. Sometimes
this advantage is offset by a disadvantage in terms of a
Negative Trait. Each weapon has one to three extra
Traits; these may be used in any challenge in which the
weapon is employed. These Traits cannot be used in place
of your Traits when placing your initial bid. Instead, they
add to your total when comparing Traits, such as in case
of a tie during a test or an overbid. In addition, some
weapons have special abilities which may be employed.
Disadvantages are weaknesses inherent to the weapon.
These can be used by the wielder’s opponent in precisely
the same way as Negative Traits. The weapon’s Negative
Traits can only be used against the wielder of that
weapon. Negative Traits for a weapon must be appropri-
ate to the situation. For instance, if you are firing a gun
and your opponent wants to apply the gun’s Negative
Trait: Loud against you, that Negative Trait could be
ignored if you have taken the time to find some means of
silencing the weapon.
If a Negative Trait of your weapon is named by your
opponent, and that Trait applies to the situation, you
suffer a one Trait penalty (i.e., you are required to risk an
additional Trait). If your opponent calls out a Negative
Trait of your weapon that doesn’t apply to the situation,
your opponent suffers a one Trait penalty in the chal-
lenge. (This can’t really be done in multiplayer challenges,
however.)
Statistics for weapons are written on cards and carried
along with your character card. Weapon cards specify the
capacities of each weapon. Weapon cards allow other
players to see that you actually possess a weapon— when
you have a weapon card in your hand, you are considered
to be holding the weapon. Each weapon has a
concealability rating. If the weapon is not concealable,
you must have that card on display at all times. You
cannot, for example, pull a rifle out of your pocket.
Instead, you would must carry that card in hand at all
times or, optionally, you could pin the card to your shirt,
indicating that the rifle is slung over your shoulder.
Some weapons have special abilities, such as causing
extra wound levels of damage or affecting more than one
target.
Bidding Traits with Weapons
During a normal hand-to-hand fight, you bid your
Physical Traits against your opponent’s Physical Traits.
However, if you’re using Firearms, you use Mental Traits
instead. If your opponent is also using a Firearm, he will
bid Mental Traits as well. If your opponent is not using a
Firearm and merely trying to dodge, then the attacker
uses Mental Traits to attack, while the defender uses her
Physical Traits to dodge. This is one of the few instances
when Traits from different attributes will be used against
one another.
Weapon Examples
• Knife — This easily-concealed weapon is very
common.
Bonus Traits: 2
Negative Traits: Short
Concealability: Pocket
• Club — This can be anything from a chair leg to a
tree limb.
Bonus Traits: 2
Negative Traits: Clumsy
Concealability: Jacket
• Broken Bottle— A good example of a weapon made
from scratch.
Bonus Traits: 1
Negative Traits: Fragile
• Sword— This long-edged blade is nearly impossible
to conceal.
Bonus Traits: 3
Negative Traits: Heavy
Concealability: Trench Coat
• Klaive — An artistic, powerful weapon favored by
the Garou
Bonus Traits: 3
Disadvantage: Bulky (this Trait does not apply when
the character is in Crinos form)
Concealability: Jacket
• Pistol— This covers nearly any sort of handgun.


Chapter Six: Systems
125
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Bonus Traits: 2
Negative Traits: Loud
Concealability: Pocket
• Rifle — Impossible to conceal
Bonus Traits: 3
Negative Traits: Loud
Concealability: None
• Shotgun — This powerful weapon fires a spray of
pellets, making targets easy to hit and ballistics checks
nearly impossible.
Bonus Traits: 3
Negative Traits: Loud
Concealability: Trench Coat
Special Ability: A shotgun may affect up to three
targets if they are standing immediately next to each
other and are further than ten feet from the person firing
the shotgun. This is resolved with a single challenge
against a group. The Traits are risked against the entire
group. Up to three separate tests are performed (one test
for each target). In this fashion, it is possible to simulta-
neously wound up to three opponents in a single challenge.
The Trait risked by the attacker is used against all three
opponents. If any of the three opponents win, the at-
tacker loses that Trait. However, that Trait still applies
to all three tests within that group challenge. Thus, a
character can challenge up to three opponents while
only risking one Trait with this weapon. Also, a shotgun
can cause two wound levels to a single target standing
within five feet.
• Submachine Gun — Though difficult to conceal,
this weapon is very powerful.
Bonus Traits: 3
Negative Traits: Loud
Concealability: Jacket
Special Ability: a submachine gun may affect up to
five targets if they’re standing immediately next to each
other and are further than ten feet from the person firing
the submachine gun. This is resolved with a single
challenge against a group (as described under the section
on shotguns).
Ranged Combat
Many weapons allow you to stand at a distance from a
target and engage him in combat. In such situations, you
still go over to the target (after shouting “Bang!”) and
engage in a challenge.
If you have surprised your opponent, even if you lose
the first test, you have the option of calling for a second
test. Once the second challenge is called, play continues
as normal. Your target is considered surprised for the first
attack, and if he has no ranged weapon with which to
return fire, he is considered “surprised” for as long as you
can attack him without facing resistance (that is, if he
wins on a challenge, you don’t take damage).
If your target is aware of you before you make your
initial ranged attack and has a ranged weapon of his own,
he is not considered surprised for your first attack. He
may shoot back right away, and the challenges are re-
solved as stated below.
After your first shot is fired (the first challenge is
resolved), your target may attempt to return fire (assum-
ing he is armed). The loser of a firefight challenge loses
a Health Level.
If the defender is unarmed, he may declare his victory
condition as escape (providing he is not cornered). If the
defender wins the challenge, the attacker is still un-
harmed, but his target, the defender, has escaped from
view and must be searched out if the attacker decides to
press the attack. In instances such as this, a new chal-
lenge cannot be made for at least five minutes.
Cover
Fighting with hand-to-hand weapons— clubs, knives,
klaives and swords— requires that combatants be within
reach of each other. Fighting with ranged weapons allows
combatants to stand apart; participants can therefore
“dive for cover.” When you resolve each ranged combat
challenge, you can present one Trait of cover to add to
your total number of Traits. These cover Traits may not
be used for bidding, but they do add to your total if Traits
are compared. This cover can take the form of whatever
obstacles are around and within reach of you (you don’t
actually dive for them). A Narrator might be required to
tell you what cover is around, but if combatants know the
area, they can agree upon what cover is available. In some
instances, there may be no cover around, leaving a
combatant in the open with only his own defensive
Traits.
If cover is extensive— a brick wall, perhaps— it may
be worth more than one Trait for one challenger. The
number of Traits available for cover is left for challengers
to agree upon, or for a Narrator to declare. Hiding behind
a car, for example, might be worth two cover Traits, while
hiding behind a thin wall might only count as one. If one
combatant goes completely under cover— he cannot be
seen at all and is thoroughly protected— he is considered
to be impossible to hit. The attacker must change his
position to get another clear shot.
Renown
Among the Garou, Renown governs Ranking. Your
Rank determines what level of Gifts you’re able to learn,
as well as how well you are respected and known among
Garou society.
There are three kinds of Renown Traits that you can
collect: Honor, Glory and Wisdom. Each auspice has its
own requirements for rising in Rank. In general, as a
Garou, you try to excel in the areas of Renown that are
favored by your auspice.


The Apocalypse
126
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Honor is adherence to the Litany and how well you
uphold your own word of honor. It is also traditional
“chivalry,” as well as remaining true to yourself and your
ideals. The Philodox of a sept are chiefly concerned with
matters of Honor, and they are the ones who nominate a
Garou to receive Honor Renown.
Glory is willingness to throw yourself headlong into
the fight against the Wyrm. It represents bravery, prow-
ess and success in the face of certain doom. A truly
glorious Garou has fought well and often and continues
to make a name for himself time and time again by
defeating the Wyrm in a manner that shows his style. The
Ahroun of a sept are chiefly concerned with matters of
Glory, and they are the ones who nominate a Garou to
receive Glory Renown.
Wisdom is inner strength and inner knowledge. When
disputes are solved without bloodshed, when the Wyrm
is defeated by simple means rather than violent ones,
when a Garou devotes himself full-time to the service of
his totem or to spiritual meditation, a Garou is consid-
ered Wise. Since the Theurges of a sept are chiefly
concerned with matters of Wisdom, they are the ones
who nominate a Garou to receive Wisdom Renown.
Nominations
These can be decided on by the auspices making the
nominations. This can either been done as a majority-
rule vote, or one elder of the auspice can decide who gets
the Renown.
Renown Awards
The following list can be used as guidelines for circum-
stances that could warrant a Renown award from a
Theurge, Philodox or Ahroun. These are by no means set
in stone, and they are always up to the individual inter-
pretation of the characters involved.
Glorious Actions
• Surviving an incapacitating wound
• Gaining a Battle Scar
• Surviving a toxic waste attack
• Attacking a minion of the Wyrm without regard for
personal safety
• Defeating a minion of the Wyrm
• Travelling beyond the Near Umbra to another
Realm and surviving
• Performing or participating in a Rite of Caern
Building
• Owning a klaive (this is awarded once, after three
moons of use)
• Helping to prevent the caern from being overrun by
the Wyrm
• Dying while defending a caern (posthumous).
• Without any assistance, preventing the Wyrm from
overtaking the caern (a Garou can receive more than one
Glory Trait for this action)
• Accepting a sept position
• Telling a good story at a moot
Scandalous Inglorious Actions
• Cowering from a foe
• Begging a minion of the Wyrm for your life
• Participating in a failed Great Hunt
• Suffering the Rite of Ostracism
• Not preventing a caern from being overrun by the
Wyrm
• Refusing a sept position
• Suffering from a fox frenzy (running in fear)
Honorable Actions
• Showing restraint in the face of certain death
• Performing a Moot Rite
• Performing a Rite of Passage
• Performing a Rite of Caern Building
• Performing a Punishment Rite
• Owning a klaive (awarded once, only after three
moons of use)
• Helping to guard a caern, even when you’d rather be
somewhere else
• Helping to prevent a caern from being overrun by
the Wyrm
• Teaching another Garou a valuable lesson
• Reciting part of the Silver Record at a moot
• Gaining the position of Pack Leader (awarded once)
• Serving in a sept position faithfully for one year
• Upholding the Litany during a controversial issue
• Mediating a dispute fairly and impartially
• Consistently keeping your promises
• Being truthful in the face of adversity
• Telling an epic story at a moot
• Showing mercy to a wayward Garou
• Protecting a helpless human or wolf
• Supporting a person being accused of a crime (who
is later proven innocent)
• Making sacrifices to protect the Veil
• Repairing the Veil
Scandalous Dishonorable Actions
• Falsely accusing anyone of being of the Wyrm
• Refusing to perform a Moot Rite
• Suffering the Stone of Scorn
• Suffering the Rite of Ostracism
• Accidentally breaking or losing a klaive
• Not staying on watch at a caern when a more
tempting activity presents itself
• Refusing to help guard a caern


Chapter Six: Systems
127
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
• Not preventing a caern from being overrun by the
Wyrm
• Refusing any sept position
• Challenging someone too far above or below your
own Rank
• Mediating a dispute unfairly
• Failing to keep your promises
• Being deceptive
• Speaking poorly of the Garou as a whole
• Speaking poorly of one’s tribe, auspice or pack
• “Crying Wolf” (i.e., summoning the Ahroun of a
sept when there is no real danger present)
• Not protecting a helpless Garou
• Not protecting a helpless wolf or human
• Performing heinous acts while in the Thrall of the
Wyrm
• Abandoning your pack in a time of need
• Harming/rending the Veil
Wise Actions
• Besting someone (even a spirit) in a riddle contest
• Showing restraint in the face of certain death
• Ending a threat without serious harm to any Garou
• Revealing with certain proof that a Kinfolk or Garou
is “of the Wyrm”
• Purifying a Wyrm-tainted object, person or place
• Successfully completing a spirit quest in the Umbra
• Giving a prophetic warning that later comes true
• Discovering ancient Garou Lore
• Performing a Rite of Caern Building
• Discovering/creating a new rite
• Discovering/creating a new Gift
• Creating a fetish
• Sacrificing a fetish for the good of the sept or tribe
• Keeping a caern safe through trickery or imagination
• Teaching another Garou a valuable lesson
• Upholding the Litany
• Consistently giving good advice
• Healing a fellow Garou (non-pack member) self-
lessly
Scandalously Unwise Actions
• Attacking a much more powerful force without aid
• Falsely accusing another of being “of the Wyrm”
• Failing to complete a spirit quest in the Umbra
• Giving a prophetic warning that does not come true
• Giggling, joking or otherwise being disrespectful
during a rite (leeway is given on this one for a Ragabash)
• For a homid, ignoring one’s wolf nature for too long
• For a metis, attempting to hide one’s deformity
• Living alone or away from your pack
• Breaking the Litany
• Consistently giving bad advice
• Having trickery backfire
• Injuring a fellow Garou during a frenzy
• Having poor relations with nearby Kinfolk


The Apocalypse
128
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Confirmation
When all is said and done, and all Renown nomina-
tions have been made at a sept, the elders of each auspice
present the Galliards with their nominations. At that
point, the Galliards must make a decision. Will they
confirm the nominations by singing of the new Renown,
or will they negate the nomination by refusing to recog-
nize the story which the Renown Trait represents?
Ultimately, the elder Galliard has veto powers, and can
cancel a nomination at any time.
Scandal
Finally, even after a Renown Trait has been awarded,
a Ragabash can attempt to destroy your Renown by
speaking scandalously of you. These scandals must have
an element of truth and must be agreed upon by the
Ragabash elder of the sept, so, in a sense, the Ragabash
must prove the scandal. Still, it is the Galliards who also
must confirm the scandal, thus solidifying the loss of
Renown. Only one Renown Trait per scandal can be
affected.
The Wyrm often finds out when a scandal among the
Garou has occurred. A Bane might approach a Garou to
“help” the Garou through his crisis by offering him
revenge or more power to gain back his lost Renown.
Loss of Rank
It is possible for a Garou to gain Rank and then lose it
later through scandal. This is the way of the Garou— a
werewolf must purify himself before attempting to rise in
Rank.
Benefits of Renown
Aside from the fact that you need to accumulate
Renown Traits in order to be able to challenge for Rank,
Renown Traits will give you a few other benefits.
First of all, Renown Traits can be used in place of
Social Traits during any Social Challenge. In order to use
the Trait, you must somehow work the Trait appropri-
ately into the roleplaying. For example, an Ahroun
trying to intimidate someone might say, “You must
realize what you are doing. Are you going to deny Alaric
the Glorious? I’ve fought and killed a Nexus Crawler!”
Even if the Traits are temporarily lost during a challenge
as part of a session, such a loss does not reduce your Rank
in any way.
Each Renown Trait that you gain also gives you the
opportunity to learn a new Gift, as long as your character
has sufficient experience. You must petition the spirits to
teach you a Gift, and the spirits do not always listen.
To clarify: you cannot learn a new Gift unless you have
a new Renown Trait to show your eligibility. If you wish
to learn a Gift that is outside your tribe, auspice or breed,
you must have two Renown Traits to gain permission.
Tokens
A Garou can represent “favor” by creating a Token: a
small gift of some kind, usually a necklace, bracelet or
other piece of jewelry. This can also be as simple as a
keyring, a computer disk, a trading card or a seashell, as
long as it is easily identifiable— each Token you make
should look roughly the same so that it can be identified.
By creating a Token, you can temporarily loan one of
your Renown Traits to another Garou, to be used either
in Social Challenges or to otherwise represent your
interests.  As long as a Garou has one of your Tokens, you
may not use that Renown Trait in challenges, but it still
counts toward your Rank. The number of Tokens that
can be created is determined by your Rank: a fostern can
only make one, an adren can make three, and an elder
can make five. A Token cannot permit you to learn a new
Gift, and it does not count towards your total Renown
Traits needed to rise in Rank. It does give you more
authority, however, and many adren who carry out sept
positions get Tokens from their elders.
The Ranks
In general, your method of gaining Rank is based on
your auspice, but Rank is also a measure of the respect and
loyalty that the Garou feel for you. Rank has its privi-
leges, as well as its duties.
Cliath (Cub)
This is the lowest Rank; it is not the normal starting-
point for playing The Apocalypse. However, it can be
fun to play someone who’s just gone through her First
Change. You have to roleplay learning all about the
Garou and discover the secret lore of your auspice or
tribe. There are benefits to being a cub: first of all, no one
is allowed to challenge you. Everyone will likely come to
your aid if you get into danger. However, cubs are only
allowed to learn their breed and tribe Gifts. Cubs learn
their auspice Gift after their Rite of Passage. At many
septs, there is a Garou with the title “Den Mother” or
“Den Father.” A Den Mother watches over the cubs and
makes sure that they respect their elders and don’t get
into trouble.
This is an excellent way to become introduced to the
game as a whole. If your local Troupe is set up with a Den
Mother, you can easily join the story and be tutored in
the game as a matter of course. Learning about the Garou
this way can be a lot of fun.
Gifts Available: None (at start)
Renown Requirements: None
Duties: You are required to learn as much as you can.


Chapter Six: Systems
129
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Fostern
This is typically the most common Rank at a sept.  A
fostern has undergone the Rite of Passage and now stands
as an adult Garou amongst the Garou. Fostern are ex-
pected to attend moots, fulfill their duties as described by
their auspice and learn the ways of their breed and tribe.
Gifts Available: Basic
Renown Requirements
Ragabash: Any Three Renown Traits
Theurge: Two Wisdom, One Honor or Glory
Philodox: Two Honor, One Wisdom
Galliard: One Glory and Two Wisdom or Honor
Ahroun: Two Glory, One Honor
Other Requirements: You must know your three
initial Gifts and swear an oath of loyalty to your sept or
tribe, usually at a ceremony that takes place after the
completion of your Rite of Passage.
Duties: You are required to give service to the sept on
a regular basis. This service can entail minor jobs, such as
aiding the Keeper of the Land with his duties or patrols,
accepting guard duty, or helping an adren or elder with an
upcoming Rite. Essentially, your Garou “job description”
is “other duties as required,” and since you are lesser in
Rank than most Garou, you have usually have little
choice but to obey.
Privileges: You are allowed to perform Basic Rites,
can petition for justice, can challenge for a higher Rank
(when you have enough Renown Traits) and are usually
allowed access to the caern. You can also request that a
Moon Bridge be opened to the destination of your choice,
but the request will not always be heeded— Moon
Bridges are sacred things and are not to be used frivo-
lously.
Note: This is the starting Rank for a player. While you
are of this Rank, the Garou expect you to be out making
a name for yourself. Fostern are always getting into
trouble, but that’s just part of being a fostern. The elders
watch the fostern specifically to make sure they don’t
screw up so much that they’ll be denied adrenship.
Also note that the word “fostern” is used to refer to
your pack brothers and sisters, your family by choice. In
the sense that all members of a pack are “family,” the
members of a Garou’s pack can be referred to as his
“fostern,” regardless of their Rank. Sometimes unity is
more important than social standing.
Adren
You have gained prestige and renown, and now you are
expected to take a larger part in the affairs of the sept.
Gifts Available: Basic, Intermediate
Renown Requirements
Ragabash: Any Eleven Renown Traits
Theurge: Five Wisdom, Three Glory, Three Honor
Philodox: Five Honor, Four Wisdom, One Glory
Galliard: Four Glory, Three Wisdom, Three Honor
Ahroun: Five Glory, Four Honor, One Wisdom
Other Requirements: You must be in training to fill
one of the positions at a sept. You must challenge and
defeat another adren. Note that defeating this adren does
not have any effect on this arden’s glory, though being
defeated may affect yours. This challenge may take what-
ever form the adren desires, and may be made appropriately
easy or difficult depending upon how worthy the adren
feels you are.
Duties: You must give service to the elder who is
training you. This takes most of your (out-of-game) time.
Adren are considered eligible to become minor sept
leaders for positions like Keeper of the Land, Gatekeeper,
Guardian and Den Mother, positions that do not require
a lot of authority. They are required to train fostern and
often must spend more time at the caern than they would
like. This is one of the toughest Ranks to obtain, because
adren often have the responsibilities of an elder, but
don’t always have the authority to carry them out.
Privileges: Fostern must address you with a term of
respect. If you know the Rite of Binding, you are allowed
to create talens for yourself and others. Your name will be
known outside your sept soon, probably among members
of your tribe.  You are able to do Intermediate Rites on
your own. You can demand that the sept must provide a
place for you to live, even if it is just communal living
quarters. (This is for people with very low Finances.)
Note: you are seen to be in line for one or more sept
positions. Everyone watches what you do, and the
Ragabash in particular will try to catch you doing some-
thing scandalous. An adren is expected to set a good
example. This can be quite a stressful time for a Garou.
Elder
You are at a peak in your achievement as a Garou.
Others look up to you as a paragon. You command respect
and obedience from those around you.
Gifts Available: Basic, Intermediate, Advanced
Renown Requirements
Ragabash: Any Twenty-One Renown Traits
Theurge: Eight Wisdom, Seven Glory, Five Honor
Philodox: Eight Honor, Seven Wisdom, Five Glory
Galliard: Seven Glory, Seven Wisdom, Six Honor
Ahroun: Eight Glory, Seven Honor, Five Wisdom
Other Requirements: You must fill one of the elder
positions at a sept. These are: elder of an auspice, elder of
a tribe, elder of a breed, Sept Leader, Warder, Master of
the Rite or Master of the Challenge. One can be both the
the Sept Leader or Master of the Rite and the elder of a
tribe, auspice or breed— the duties can overlap. You
cannot advance if one of these positions is not available
to you. Either you must challenge the elder for his
position and defeat him or wait until he vacates the


The Apocalypse
130
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
position. In the latter case, you may have to contend for
the position.
Duties: As an elder of an auspice, tribe or breed, you
are simply required to watch out for the interests of your
auspice, tribe or breed among the sept. As an elder of an
auspice, you have the power to veto Renown nomina-
tions. As an elder of a tribe, you have the ability to accept
new members into the tribe and to ban certain Garou
from the tribe. As an elder of a breed, you are responsible
for all external liaisons with others of your breed— the
metis elder is a position rarely filled, but if it is filled, the
metis elder must watch over and give aid to all metis
characters in the sept. Other positions are described in
section on “The Sept.”
Privileges: Elders can only be judged by a council of
other elders. They are free to pretty much do what they
will as long as they fulfill their duties. Elders can “get
away” with quite a bit and still command respect and
obedience from everyone around them.
Note: If you don’t have many players, it’s best if elders
are Narrator characters. Too many elders in a game will
disrupt it.
Facedown
In Garou society, when a conflict occurs, the combat-
ants lock eyes in a test of wills before a conflict actually
comes to blows. This is an honored tradition among the
Garou; it is known as the Facedown. A Facedown occurs
when two plays meet eye to eye for the purpose of
intimidating an opponent and forcing him to back down.
This is common among Garou society, and this activity
is used to settle minor disputes, scold pups and show
leaders discontent. It is a tradition in Garou society that
the winner of a facedown is given the respect deserved for
being successful in such a contest.
Success in a facedown is determined two ways. First, if
one of the players relents while roleplaying this action,
the other player is considered the winner and is allowed
to gloat over his victory as he pleases. If one of the players
does not relent during a facedown, then a Social Chal-
lenge is necessary to determine the victor. The Social
Challenge proceeds as normal with the loser breaking eye
contact and losing the contest.
This is an excellent opportunity for good roleplaying.
Even if the contest comes to a challenge, that’s no reason
to break eye contact until the matter is resolved and a
winner is determined. Roleplay it to the hilt.
Frenzy
Frenzy is an uncontrollably violent state suffered by all
Garou. It is the taint of the Wyrm within them that
causes them to go mad, destroying and ravaging every-
thing within their reach. Frenzy can happen at any time
and can be provoked by anything. When it happens, it is
sudden, bloody and often fatal. Not even the Stargazers
are calm enough to forsake this horrible curse of the
Changing Breed.
The trigger to a frenzy can be almost anything, de-
pending upon the player in question. For a Fianna Galliard,
it could be a member of an audience mocking him as he
performs; for a Wendigo Ahroun, it could be an ignorant,
prejudiced white man; for a Get of Fenris, it could be a
bad moot. What triggers frenzy is entirely up to the
personality of the character and the discretion of the
Narrator.
A character can also try to instill frenzy in another
character by taunting him and calling for a Social Chal-
lenge. If the attacker, the taunting character, wins the
challenge, then the defender will frenzy. If the defender
wins the challenge, nothing happens, and the story
continues as usual.
Once in the state of frenzy, the character attacks all
those around him violently and without discretion. A
frenzied character does not suffer penalties from wound
levels. (If the character is wounded, he does not have to
spend extra Traits to make attacks.) This simulates the
blind, uncontrollable anger of the character. Frenzies
usually last only about 10 minutes or until the object or
person that triggered the frenzy is removed from the
character’s vicinity. The frenzy can also end if the char-
acter is mortally wounded, at which point she will collapse.
A character may also enter frenzy by spending a Rage
Trait to do so. Such an action can prove useful in a
combat situation when frenzy would prove to be helpful
in achieving victory.
Note: Be cautious when roleplaying frenzy. Do not
jump about screaming at people unless you are on private
property where others will not be disturbed. Remember,
although frenzy is a violent state of mind, you absolutely
cannot physically strike other players, even in jest. Just
because your character is in an uncontrollable rage does
not mean that the player should forget the rules and
become reckless. Use your own discretion, but act it out
as much as the environment allows without upsetting
your fellow players.
The Many Forms
The Garou have three forms which they may assume:
Homid (pure human), Crinos (towering man-wolf crea-
ture) and Lupus (pure wolf). Each of these forms gives the
Garou a different set of advantages and disadvantages.
Changing forms takes time. Generally, the amount of
time required to change forms is one second for every
Social Trait which the Garou possesses. This may be
altered at the Storytellers whim— changing forms might
take less time during a moment of stress or might even be
instantaneous during a full moon.
Alternatively, the Garou may elect to spend a Rage
Trait to make the change instantaneous. The player of


Chapter Six: Systems
131
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
the Garou should be certain to make those within sight
aware that the change is taking place so that other
characters can act out an appropriate reaction.
Although Garou can have difficulty communicating
with  humans and wolves, they can always communicate
with one another freely. The language of the Garou is a
combination of human phonetics and lupine snarls.
Homid: The Human
Trait Adjustments: None
Change Description: This is the normal state for
characters who wish to interact with human society. This
form is in all ways identical to human form. A Garou in
Homid form does not regenerate damage, but may carry
silver items without harm.
Crinos: The Wolf-Man
Trait Adjustments: The character gains the following
additional Physical Traits: Ferocious x 2, Robust, Relent-
less, Brawny and Quick. These Traits may be bid just like
normal Traits. Once lost, they are gone for the duration
of the story. A Garou also suffers the following Negative
Traits while in this form: Bestial x 2 and Tactless.
Change Description: Garou in this form often grow to
a towering nine feet or more in height. The Garou’s body
is covered in a thick fur, and her head becomes that of a
snarling canine. The claws and fangs become pronounced
and ready for combat. This form is most often assumed
when the Garou is preparing to enter into great danger.
While in Crinos form, the character is built for combat.
Both the claws and teeth cause aggravated damage.
Roleplaying: When in Crinos form, the character is
taking an appearance that evokes horrific racial memo-
ries in humans; any human seeing the Garou in this form
will be affected by the Delirium. Saying anything more
complex than a few words will require the expenditure of
a Mental Trait. In addition, while in Crinos form, the
player must hold her arms above her head with her fingers
curled as claws and generally be as menacing as possible.
Lupus: Wolf
Trait Adjustments: While in Lupus form, the charac-
ter gains the following Physical Traits: Ferocious, Tireless
and Quick. The character also gains the Mental Traits:
Alert x 2, but the Traits may only be used in challenges
involving perception. He also possesses two Negative
Traits: Bestial x 2.
Change Description: In this form, the Garou assumes
the form of a wolf, usually a near-perfect specimen. The
exact type or form of the wolf is usually determined by the
character’s tribe. A character in Lupus form may not
cause aggravated wounds with his claws, but may still do
so with his teeth. In addition, a Garou in Lupus has
exceptional senses. She may attempt to perform sensory
feats which would be nearly impossible to a human:
seeing in near darkness, tracking by scent, exceptional
hearing, etc.
Roleplaying: While in Lupus form, a character is
driven mostly by instinct. A Lupus will usually prefer to
flee rather than fight a battle. Lupus cannot speak to
humans; however, they may speak freely to wolves.
While in Lupus form, the player must hold his hands in
front of his chest with his hands bent down (like a
begging dog) to show others that he is in Lupus. He
should also try to crouch down whenever possible.
Beyond the Velvet
Shadow:
Spirits and the Umbra
in Apocalypse
The spirit world plays an active role in the life of the
Garou. A Garou can travel from the physical world to the
spirit world, allowing him interact with the spiritual
landscape. As a member of a pack, a Garou shares a
mystic connection to the spirit world by his relationship
to his Pack Totem; this totem also binds the pack to-
gether. Spirituality can be a part of anything a Garou
does. Even the most cynical Glass Walker living in the
heart of the most blighted city in the world can see spirits
everywhere she looks. To the Garou, the entire world is
alive with the spirit of Gaia.
As a Narrator, it is your job to bring out the spiritual
side of werewolves when you play The Apocalypse. It’s
a rich and rewarding aspect of the game, but one that can
be impractical to play if it’s not handled correctly.
The Spirit Keeper
 For any game in which spirits play an important role,
you should have a Narrator whose job is to adjudicate and
administer all spirit-related Gifts and rites, Umbral travel,
totems and spirit combat. This Narrator, called the
“Spirit Keeper,” is also in charge of all the spirit plot-lines
and anything having to do with the spirit world. The
Spirit Keeper should prepare for any Apocalypse setting
by defining any pre-existing spirits in the area and creat-
ing some spirits just in case some are summoned. The
Spirit Keeper also needs to know what the Umbra is like
in all of the playing areas.
The Umbra
There is a spirit world outside of the perceptions of
normal humanity. It lies alongside our own world, sepa-
rated from this world by a wall of reality called the
Gauntlet. One must pass through the Gauntlet to reach
the Umbra or return back to earth. The Gauntlet is said


The Apocalypse
132
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
he did when his character entered the Umbra. The
character then returns to the physical world.
Once a player’s character is in the Umbra, the player
must tie a red bandanna or other red marker around her
left arm to signify this. The character may not interact
with people who are not in the Umbra unless some
special Gift or Fetish is used. The Spirit Keeper will
probably want to be kept informed as to who is in the
Umbra, as those characters will be available for special
plot developments, such as Umbral storms, Bane attacks
or spirit visitations.
One of the advantages of the Umbra is that Garou can
do battle in the Umbra without endangering the Veil.
The Umbra also makes an excellent “escape route,”
although the Umbra can sometimes be more dangerous
than the physical world. There are locations in the
Umbra that correspond to places on Earth, although
exact distances can become confused in the spirit world.
As a Storytelling device the Umbra is without equal.
The Umbra is a metaphoric reflection of our world.
Where there is pollution on Earth, in the Umbra there
are  seething masses of Wyrm-tainted power called
Hellholes. Where there are great monuments to the
Weaver, such as skyscrapers, bridges and sprawling cities,
there are Webs everywhere, and Pattern Spiders travel to
maintain them. Outside the cities, the Umbral wilder-
ness glows with an internal light, and the power of
Mother Gaia is shown in her full glory.
to be a membrane woven by the Weaver to separate
physical reality from the Umbra.
Any Garou has the power to step sideways into the
Umbra. In order to do this, however, the Garou must be
at rest and  focus his eyes on a mirror or reflective surface.
Next, the player must begin counting quietly to himself
for ten seconds for each level of the Gauntlet in the area
(the Spirit Keeper should be able to relay the general
Gauntlet level of any given place in the play area.)
If a Garou is attacked while stepping sideways, she
must successfully make a Static Mental Challenge against
a difficulty dictated by a nearby Narrator before the
character can vanish into the Umbra.
Garou enter the Umbra holistically, but only the
clothes they are wearing and the stuff in their pockets
goes along with them unless they have dedicated a tool
or weapon with the Rite of Talisman Dedication. Re-
gardless of whether or not their travels are “real,” their
bodies are real, physical things in the Umbra, not astral
forms like those of psychically projecting vampires in
The Masquerade.
A Garou in the Umbra can, by standing still and
focusing, peer back through the Gauntlet and see things
in the physical world. This requires a Static Mental
Challenge at a difficulty based on the local Gauntlet
rating. This action is called “Peeking.”
In order to exit the Umbra, the player must first Peek
through the Gauntlet and then focus on her eyes on a
mirrored surface. The player counts in the same manner


Chapter Six: Systems
133
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
During the day, the Umbral sky is dark; in the night-
time, it is lit only by the light of Luna. If one were to travel
far enough, one would soon pass through the areas of the
Near Umbra and approach the boundary that separates
the Near Umbra from the Deep Umbra. The Deep
Umbra is a strange and wild place whose position corre-
sponds to deep space in the realm of the physical world.
There are rumors that there are two other Umbras
accessible from Earth: a realm of rational spirit (some-
times called the “High Umbra”), and realm of dark spirits
and wraiths, called the “Dark Umbra”.
The Umbra in Play
The Spirit Keeper may wish to create a separate area
that’s set up to evoke the atmosphere the Umbra. Atmo-
sphere can be created by using such elements as dry ice
fog, special lighting, mood music and other special deco-
rations. The Spirit Keeper should prevent anyone from
entering the area who is not “in the Umbra.” Many
dramatic and important scenes can be played in a place
where it actually appears as though the players are no
longer in this world.
It is also possible that players will try to abuse their
advantage by constantly entering the Umbra to escape
potential danger. This is unwise. The Umbra contains
dangers unlike anything found on the Earth. In the
Umbra, a Spirit Keeper has free reign to throw Banes and
other dangers at escaping Garou.
Spirits
Spirits are entities born of the Umbra who dwell there
most of the time. There is a tremendous diversity of
spirits in the Umbra. Every single thing on the Earth has
a sleeping spirit associated with it, and some things have
awakened spirits associated with them. For example, a
particularly well-loved ’57 Chevy might actually have a
wakeful spirit of “Speed” attached to it. The difference
between a waking and sleeping spirit is that one has an
active consciousness and the other does not. The Apoca-
lypse focuses on awake, active spirits only. Sleeping
spirits are not dealt with unless the special Rite of Spirit
Awakening is used (see “Rites” in Chapter Four).
Types of Spirits
The Garou think of Spirits in terms of their general
level of power. The weakest and smallest spirits are called
Gafflings. These are mere extensions of the power of
larger spirits. The more powerful spirits are called Jagglings.
These are common, everyday spirits with which the
Garou interact. One type of Jaggling, called an Engling,
can provide Garou with Gnosis. The spirits that are
commonly found as servants of the Wyrm are called
Banes.
The Incarna
There are a number of spirits who have grown in power
to the point where they command many Jagglings and
have a great supply of personal energy. They tend to have
their own realms in the Umbra, and are often fragments
of ancient Gods, Goddesses and other mythic beings.
These spirits are called Incarna, as they are often incar-
nations of powerful forces and archetypes. Many of the
Incarna are very ancient.
Totem Spirits
Some of the most ancient of Incarna are the animal
spirits that were allies to the Garou when they were first
born. These animal spirits pledged that they would for-
ever lend their wisdom, their power and their spirit
children to the aid of the Garou, Gaia’s noble sons and
daughters.
These animal Incarna are called totems, and they have
left their lasting mark on the tribes and packs of Garou.
Occasionally, a totem will send one of its avatars, an
extension of its will, to serve the Garou directly. This
always occurs as a result of a pack forming, as the Totem
Avatar becomes bound to the pack as part of the Rite of
Passage or the Rite of the Pack. Each tribe, caern and
pack has a totem associated with it, and many Garou
adopt individual, personal totems that they quietly fol-
low.
The Celestines
Finally, above the level of the Incarna are the
Celestines— powerful, incredibly large and eternal spir-
its that embody fundamental forces in the universe. Gaia
herself is a Celestine, as are Luna and Helios. Celestines
are the least “normal” appearing of the spirits. They
appear in abstract forms and communicate in strange
ways. These entities are so transcendent and distant that
it is difficult to describe them in simple terms.
The Spirit Revealed
Although the Garou do not know the full mystery of
spirits and spirit lore, as a Narrator, you must be prepared
and know all of the Traits that make up each spirit you
will use.
A spirit can have Physical, Mental and Social Traits,
although not all spirits have all three. They also have a
pool of Power Traits they use to activate special magical
abilities called Charms. Some spirits also have Rage,
Willpower and Gnosis. (In Apocalypse, both Gnosis and
Power can be used to empower Charms.)
In order to create a spirit for use in the game, you must
first decide what affinity the spirit has. A spirit’s affinity
is the fundamental theme or mood for the spirit— it is
indicative of the spirit’s purpose, personality and powers.
For example, a spirit of war might be particularly good at


The Apocalypse
134
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
fighting, have excellent Physical Traits and have the
Charm: Materialize, which allows the spirit to affect
enemies on Earth. Virtually anything can describe a
spirit affinity. Spirits who have a totem or an Incarna as
their affinity are considered servants of that totem or
Incarna. For example, a spirit with Wolf affinity is con-
sidered to be allied with the Wolf totem.
A spirit’s affinity can be discerned with certain Gifts,
such as Detect Spirit. If a character has the Enigmas
Ability, Affinity can also be perceived with a Mental
test. Optionally, you may simply wish to ask a spirit its
affinity— it might actually tell you.
Next, you must decide what type of spirit it is: com-
monly, most of the spirits a Garou uses are either Gafflings,
Jagglings or Totem Avatars.
Use the spirit creation rules below to flesh out the rest
of a spirits’ Traits. Spirits may use Negative Traits to
increase their other Traits or buy new Charms. Basic
Charms cost one Negative Trait, Intermediate Charms
cost two, and Advanced Charms cost three.
Gaffling
These are the smallest and weakest of all spirits.
Traits: Seven, in any two categories
Negative Traits: No more than two
Power Pool: 3
Charms: One Basic
Health: 2
Willpower: 1
Example Gaffling:
Pixel, a Net-Jaggling
Affinity: Light/Computers
Type: Jaggling
Traits: Mental 5, Social 2
Negative Traits: Annoying, Curious
Power Pool: 4
Charms: Break Boundary, Possess Tech
Health: 2
Willpower: 1
Pixel is a small Net-Spirit who wanders aimlessly
through various network systems and occasionally takes
a liking to a user. Computer security blocks are nothing
to it because of its small size, but even the tightest security
can be defeated by its Break Boundary charm. Garou
must defeat Pixel in a Mental Challenge to get it to
remember any information it has passed by or through.
Communication with Pixel is possible through computer
monitors: it has the ability to possess a monitor for a time
to provide pretty light shows and display information.
Pixel is not too intelligent, but it can offer help.
Jaggling
These are the most commonly found spirits in the
Umbra.
Traits: Twelve, in any category
Negative Traits: No more than three
Power Pool: 5
Charms: Two Basic, One Intermediate
Health: 4
Willpower: 3
Rage: 0-2
Example Jaggling:
H’resh, a Trash Skrag Bane
Traits: 7 Physical, 1 Social, 4 Mental
Negative Traits: Hateful, Hungry, Disgusting
Power Pool: 8
Charms: Affinity Attack, Obscure, Reform
Health: 4
Willpower: 3
Rage: 2
H’resh lives in a waste disposal facility. It particularly
loves covering people in spirit-slime by using his Affinity
Attack, which does aggravated damage to Garou. In
addition, it can create a cloud of trash smoke (Obscure
Charm) and is fond of retreating to the nearest Hellhole
when it is outnumbered (using the Reform Charm).
H’resh particularly loves his home, and will often revel in
the foulness of a trash heap.
Totem Avatars
These are the more powerful servants of Totem Spir-
its.
Example Totem Avatar:
Rhett, an Avatar of the Rat Totem
Traits: 8 Physical, 6 Social, 8 Mental
Negative Traits: Sneaky, Nosy
Power Pool: 8
Charms: Airt Sense, Materialize, Affinity Attack,
Insubstantial
Health: 11
Willpower: 5
Rage: 4
Rhett is a Totem Avatar for a pack from the Sept of the
Green in Manhattan. He is constantly watching his pack
from the Umbra and always knows the best ways to go
through the city. He will occasionally Materialize to aid
his Pack. He is also fond of taunting other, more powerful
spirits and using his Insubstantial Charm to avoid their
attacks. Rhett appears as a giant glowing Norway Wharf
Rat with a slight hint of a human mustache. He speaks in
a fake French accent.
Charms
Charms are spirit powers. They usually require a chal-
lenge of some sort. Charms can be borrowed with certain
Advanced Gifts, and a Theurge can command a spirit to
use its Charms to aid a Garou.


Chapter Six: Systems
135
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
A spirit that buys a Charm during creation must pay a
number of Power Traits equal to the cost listed.
Basic Charms
These Charms can be bought during creation by any
spirit.
• Break Boundary
Power Cost: 1
The spirit must make Static Physical or Mental Chal-
lenge versus a lock or other security feature.
• Possess Tech
Power Cost: 1/minute
The spirit controls one item of technology and can
operate it as a human might. Of course, Mental Chal-
lenges may be required.
• Affinity Attack
Power Cost: 2/attack
This is a catch-all attack ability. It is associated in
some way with the spirit’s affinity. For example, a fire
spirit will have a fire attack. It is up to the Narrator to
define the damage and Traits required to use this attack.
• Affinity Defense
Power Cost: 1/challenge
This is a catch-all defense ability. The defense must be
associated with the spirit’s affinity. For example, an air
spirit may cause a wall of swirling wind to protect against
an incoming attack. It is up to the Narrator to define the
type of defense for each spirit.
• Healing
Power Cost: variable
This is the ability to heal beings in the Umbra. Normal
wounds can be healed at a rate of one Gnosis Trait per
wound. Aggravated wounds can be healed at a rate of two
Power Traits per wound. Both Garou and spirits can be
healed.
• Obscure
Power Cost: One per minute
This provides a spirit with an obscuring cloud or fog
that keeps it from being recognized or identified.
• Airt Sense
Power Cost: 1
This enables a spirit to determine the best path through
the Umbra and can help the spirit find secret hidden
realms in the Umbra.
• Steal Gnosis/Rage/Willpower
Power Cost: One point per attempt
This enables a spirit to attempt to drain Gnosis (which
can be converted to Power), Rage or Willpower. A Social
or Mental Challenge must be won against the Garou or
spirit that is the target for this Charm.
• Mindspeak
Power Cost: 1 per scene
This enables a spirit to speak directly with the mind of
someone nearby, even if he is not in the Umbra.
• Affinity Ward
Power Cost: Variable, plus one per challenge
This enables a spirit to create an area of the Umbra
that is protected from other spirits of their affinity. The
area is usually circular in shape. The initial Power cost is
the number of Power Traits the spirit wishes to invest in
protection. These Traits are added to the difficulty of a
Static Physical Challenge to any spirit attempting to
enter the area. These invested Traits are lost when the
Ward is abandoned.
Intermediate Charms
These charms are for more powerful spirits.
• Materialize:
Power Cost: Variable (plus one per minute)
In order to Materialize, a Spirit must first make a static
test of his Power against the local Gauntlet. When a spirit
is Materialized, it can then make physical attacks against
targets on the Earth.
• Reform
Power Cost: 4
This enables a spirit to “teleport” far away from its
current position to a predetermined place, usually in a
place of power for its master or others of its kind.
• Possess Animal
Power Cost: Three, plus one per minute
This enables a spirit to possess an animal. First, a
Mental Challenge must be successful. The animal is
totally controlled by the possessing spirit until the ani-
mal is slain, the spirit runs out of Power, or someone
banishes it (as with Rite of Cleansing). This is usually the
first step in creating a Wyrm-infested animal, such as a
demon bear.
• Spirit Static
Power Cost: 5
This increases the strength of the Gauntlet by one in
a particular place for a long time (usually for days).
• Affinity Sense
Power Cost: 2
This enables a spirit to sense things in both the Umbra
and on Earth that are appropriate to its affinity. For
example, the Affinity Sense of a Glade Child (the spirit
of a tree) might be Forest Sense, which would enable it
to detect the changes made to an area around the forest,
intruders to the area and so on.
• Dreamwalk
Power Cost: 3, plus one per minute
This enables a spirit to enter a person’s dream and use
Mental Challenges to change the nature of the dream.
This can be used for communicating dark portents and
dream omens, as well as walking through someone else’s
dream.
• Shapeshift
Power Cost: variable


The Apocalypse
136
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
This enables a spirit to change its size, shape, color or
appearance. A shapeshifting spirit may transfer Traits
from one category to another by spending one point per
Trait transferred.
Advanced Charms
Available only to the most powerful spirits.
• Informational Link
Power Cost: 3
This power enables a spirit to connect into the cosmic
switchboard and gain information about virtually any
subject. A Static Mental Challenge, the difficulty of
which is equal to the complexity or specialty of the
information sought, determines the level of detail for the
information.
• Intangibility
Power Cost: 4, plus one per minute
This power protects from all attacks. A spirit can be
seen and heard, but not touched or harmed. The spirit
cannot simultaneously use the Charm: Reform.
• Possession
Power Cost: 3, two per command
The spirit engages in a Mental Challenge with its
target and must defeat her. A Willpower Trait spent by
the target will repel any attempt. After that, Social
Challenges are attempted in order to command the
target’s body to move about and do things. At this point,
the spirit possesses her and can use some of its power
through her.
• Suffocate
Power Cost: 3
This Charm chokes the target and can be used even if
the target is on Earth and not in the Umbra. The spirit
initiates a Physical Challenge with the target and must
win three challenges in a row in order to slay the target
(this is, of course, based on the assumption that the target
needs to breathe to stay alive).
• Conduit
Power Cost: 5
This Charm enables a spirit to materialize its powers
on Earth. It must focus on a specific person or must
project these powers from someone who is currently
being possessed. This Charm can also be used to channel
Rage, Gnosis or Willpower given freely from one Spirit
or Garou to another.
Spirit Combat
Spirit combat takes place in the Umbra and is per-
formed just like normal combat, using Physical Traits.
Spirits have Traits just like everyone else. If destroyed, a
Spirit dissipates and reappears, less powerful, in the
Realm that spawned it. Anytime a spirit is destroyed by
a Garou, that Garou receives an automatic Notoriety
Trait (see Notoriety, listed below).
Notoriety
Notoriety represents the reputation that a Garou has
among spirits in the spirit world. For each Notoriety Trait
a Garou has, he receives a one Trait penalty when he is
summoning Spirits. The Spirit Keeper assigns or takes
away Notoriety Traits based on her estimation of the way
spirits perceive the character, Notoriety comes and goes
depending upon the character’s actions. If a Garou gets
enough Notoriety Traits, Wyrm spirits might show up to
offer him power, or an Incarna might send Avatars to see
why an offending Garou is messing with her children.
A good rule of thumb about Notoriety is that you
receive a Notoriety Trait every time you damage or
otherwise alter a spirit, summon a spirit for no good
reason, or treat a spirit with disrespectful or abusive
behavior. Of course, this is not always true: if a Bane
attacks you, and you strike back, it’s not likely that you’ll
get Notoriety for that. But if an Owl spirit is set to watch
a caern boundary, and you intimidate it out of your way,
you may very well receive Notoriety.
The only good thing about Notoriety is that it can be
used in a Social Challenge if a Garou is attempting to
intimidate a spirit into obeying him. Of course, doing this
may very well earn the Garou another Notoriety Trait.
Geasa
Sometimes a spirit may request that a Garou take on
a geas, that is, a restriction or requirement that the serves
the spirit’s needs. This can be done as part of a bargaining
process to get the spirit to do something, or as a potential
means to erase Notoriety (the spirit will help erase the
Notoriety if the Garou in question submits to a geas).
Minor geasa include: never entering a particular color
door, always wearing a specific Token, never eating a
particular kind of meat, never speaking a spirit’s name
aloud, always wearing a particular color, and so on.
Major geasa include: performing a sacrifice, getting a
tattoo or brand, swearing an oath, agreeing to a quest or
sacred journey, agreeing to adopt a new name (thereby
“giving up” your old name) or freeing another captive
spirit.
This often explains why so many Theurges adopt
strange “superstitions” and customs.
If you break a Geas, then you automatically receive
two Notoriety Traits in addition to regaining any Noto-
riety (if any) that was removed by the spirit. In addition,
for a time, no spirits will trust your word. You may even
lose Honor or Wisdom Renown from the members of
your sept, who will be informed by the spirits of your
indiscretion.


Chapter Six: Systems
137
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Delirium
Delirium is a state of mind that afflicts humans who
see a Garou in Crinos form. Reactions vary greatly. Some
humans run in sheer terror, while others cower on the
ground in front of Garou. A few completely disbelieve
the incident ever happened. There are also those who
become quite curious about the event and attempt to
gain more information. Therefore, it is important that
characters are careful when changing forms or running
about as something other than a pure human or wolf. The
integrity of the Veil must be preserved.
Experience
Humans learn from experience. As sentient beings, we
collate the information that is presented to us in our daily
lives and hopefully become better people for our experi-
ence. Some of us do, while some of us ignore our lessons
and must repeat the same mistakes again. During our life,
we learn from the mistakes of yesterday and prepare for
the challenges of tomorrow.
Experience in The Apocalypse is represented by giv-
ing each character one to three experience points at the
end of each story. The number of points awarded is based
on how well the character performed during the course of
the story and how active the player was in the game. The
Narrator will decide how many points each player re-
ceives upon completion of the game. Most players will
receive one point— this is standard. Exceptional
roleplayers, those who played an exceptionally memo-
rable part, will receive two. Three points will be awarded
to those characters who portrayed acts of incredible
insight and courage, making the game more memorable
for the Narrator and other players. On a normal night,
each player will receive one experience point.
Some basic guidelines for awarding experience fol-
low— if you are a Narrator, you might want to adjust
awards to suit your needs, but be careful. Awarding too
many experience points can make the characters in the
game too powerful and make your task as Narrator very
difficult in future chronicles. It can also “spoil” the
players and make them overconfident, which can make
them difficult to deal with.
Awarding Experience
Awarding experience points requires a delicate bal-
ance between satisfying the players and maintaining the
balance of the game. If you follow the guidelines below,
you probably won’t get into too much trouble, but feel
free to experiment.
• Automatic — Each character receives one experi-
ence point per game. This represents the acquisition of
common everyday knowledge.
• Roleplaying — Narrators should encourage role-
playing. The best way to do this is by rewarding it. This
point should be automatically awarded to players who
have all of their Traits left at the end of the night. These
players obviously roleplayed well, and didn’t have to
spend any Traits in challenges. The best roleplayer in the
cast usually receives this bonus.
• Leadership — You should award one point to
players who played a major part in the story. They got
involved, and their efforts propelled the plot. The player
who was the most involved in advancing the plot usually
receives this award. It should be noted that if more than
one of the players were integral in the progression of the
story, then each of the players who showed such leader-
ship could be awarded this point.
Using Experience
After experience points have been awarded, they may
be spent to purchase new Abilities, Traits and Gifts,
improving upon the character and giving the player a
sense of satisfaction as he watches his character grow and
improve. The following chart list the cost of improving
Traits, Abilities and Gifts:
• New Attribute Trait— One experience point per
Trait.
• New Ability— One experience point per Ability
Trait.
• New Gift— Three experience points for Basic Gifts,
six for Intermediate Gifts, and nine for Advanced Gifts.
(Note— you must be of the appropriate Rank to take a
Gift.)  It costs an additional point to learn a Gift outside
of your breed, auspice or tribe.
• New Gnosis— Three experience per Trait.
• New Rage— Three experience per Trait.
• New Willpower— Three experience per Trait.
• Buy off Negative Trait— Two experience points
per Trait.
• Buy off a Notoriety Trait— Two experience points
per Trait.
Only one Ability, Trait or Gift should be gained per
session.


The Apocalypse
138
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Seven: Advice
139
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Hopefully, you now have a pretty good idea of what
Apocalypse is all about. So far, we’ve detailed the core
rules of the game, including character creation, basic
rules and rules complications. However, the game is
about much more than just that. It’s about roleplaying
and telling good stories. Storytelling is not something
easily taught or explained; it’s something you must learn.
The best we can do is offer some practical advice.
Don’t expect the following guidelines to turn you into
an accomplished actor overnight. This chapter merely
gives you some advice that may help you make your story
a better one, whether you’re a player or a Storyteller.
What you make of this advice is entirely up to you.
Do’s and Don’ts
This game will put you into contact with a lot of
different people. Some people are likely to be wired on
adrenaline and consumed by the danger and mystery of
the story. Under such circumstances, intensity can lead
to disagreement and arguments. Listed below are some
important guidelines to help keep tempers in check and
the story flowing smoothly. Do your part to help make
everything work.
• Don’t go wild— The idea here is not to get carried
away and hurt yourself. Enthusiasm being what it is, a few
new players occasionally get the impulse to climb balco-
nies, run through traffic and do all sorts of really stupid
things. Even if just one or two people run amok, the story
quickly degenerates as others become “infected.” There
are two situations that must never occur: you should
never pretend to attack anyone physically, and you
should never do anything remotely dangerous. Describe
and pretend any action that could be considered to be at
all dangerous.
• Be a teacher— It probably takes an evening or two
of play before you become comfortable with using these
rules. If you encounter a player who is just starting out,
engage him in a minor challenge to help him get used to
the challenge system. If he wants to take back a bid, let
him. Achieving victory by taking advantage of someone’s
lack of knowledge is completely without class. Teach the
sucker every trick and nuance beforehand, then, if you
must, backstab him with style.
• Don’t use weapons — Don’t carry representations
of weapons. If you’re carrying around real knives or other
weapons, you might be tempted to wave them around
and threaten someone. Plastic guns tend to draw the
“Let’s have a party, there’s a full moon in the sky,
It’s the hour of the wolf, and I don’t wanna die.”
—Oingo Boingo, “No One Lives Forever”
Chapter Seven:
Advice


The Apocalypse
140
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
attention of law enforcement officials, so don’t ever carry
them.
• Protect the Veil— Don’t perform illegal-seeming
activities in public places. Large quantities of play money
changing hands will draw far more attention to the story
than you probably want. Arms sales, drug deals, bribery
and blackmail may be a major part of your chronicle’s
intrigue, but be careful. Make sure you’re using money
that cannot be mistaken for the real thing, even at a
distance, and make sure you use prop cards for any
unusual materials that you might be trading.
• Don’t overact— Don’t act out strong emotions
unless everyone present is aware of what’s going on. This
rule applies very strictly if you are in a place where a
shouting match could be overheard and misconstrued.
While a good story may have heated arguments and a
scream every so often, the location of the game may not
allow for that.
• Stay in character— Don’t step in and out of char-
acter during the game. An emergency or question may
occasionally require you to put the story on hold for a
while, but try to avoid unnecessary interruptions. Re-
spect those who need to step out of character for whatever
reason, but don’t encourage it. You should never abuse
this privilege (such as saying you are inactive when you
notice danger approaching).
Experienced players learn to weave the system of
challenges into their conversation and be rather sly
about it; they can avoid alerting the “mundanes” that
anything is happening. This is the linchpin of Mind’s
Eye Theatre. Real people try to solve things calmly and
collectively, not by slamming each other into walls.
Characters should follow their example.
• Don’t debate the rules— Don’t start rules argu-
ments during the game. If you and another player have a
dispute about how to apply the rules, call for a Narrator.
She will make a judgment on the situation. If you have a
problem with a Narrator’s call, wait until after the game
to argue your case.
• Foster intrigue — The best way to add depth to a
story is to add intrigue of your own making. Don’t ever
limit yourself to the goals and motivations the Narrator
gives you at the start— take control. Make new friends
and enemies, develop new intrigue and schemes, invent
rumors and add to the general confusion and mayhem.
Get involved in everything that is going on and then add
your own spin. By staying aware of all the intrigue going
on, you might get advance warning of plots against you.
Dedicate yourself to finding out what everyone else is
doing, then find a way to benefit from it all. As a Glass
Walker, you might search the computer matrix to find
incriminating information on another character. As a
Fianna, you might sing a song and sway characters to your
cause. As a Stargazer, you might preach the wonders of a
peaceful existence and bring calm to the characters’
lives. Get involved! After all, it’s your story.
• Create your own plots — Don’t limit your activities
to the plots created for you by the Narrator. Create your
own story and work other characters into it one by one.
For example, you may decide that you want to become
the sept leader. You may subsequently spend many enjoy-
able evenings pursuing that elusive goal and crafting
schemes to gain power and impress your peers. Such a
goal is invigorating and fun, but is not something that a
Narrator is likely to supply. Of course, not all the plot
twists you create need to be that grandiose. You may
decide to dislike another character so much that your
mission is to make her life difficult. Remember that you
can plot against both protagonists and antagonists. It’s
fun to turn the tables on a Narrator character, especially
if you can surprise her.
• Watch out for other players— Keep an eye out for
players who look bored. Sometimes, this means that
they’ve either accomplished all their goals or they’re
getting discouraged. If you need help solving a puzzle or
keeping an eye on someone, a bored player is the perfect
assistant. If you can’t think of any way she can help you
with your own plots, invent a wild goose chase or give her
some false rumors about an enemy of yours. Bored players
will do just about anything if it sounds interesting, and
you can build a legion of allies by manipulating them.
Perhaps in another story, one in which you find yourself
without much to do, one of these players come to your
rescue. Remember that some players who get really bored
tend to have their character start killing other characters
for no other reason than to have something to do.
• Respect the Narrators— Remember that the Nar-
rators have gone to a huge amount of effort to create the
story. Running a game requires a lot more effort than
playing a single character. During a game, Narrators are
besieged with questions, called upon to adjudicate rule
disputes, and must roleplay a number of different charac-
ters as well. They’re very busy and occasionally stressed
out. Be nice to them. Request their help only when you
really need it, and thank them whenever they do come to
the rescue. Try to work out rules problems and the like
with other players without calling for a Narrator.
• Roleplay, roleplay, roleplay— Not everything has
to come down to a challenge. The best games often
involve no challenges. Avoid “rulesmongering” and
roleplay things out instead. Whenever possible, roleplay
a social situation without resorting to rules. It is usually
easier to win someone over person-to-person than through
a Social Challenge. If you are obviously outclassed in a
challenge, submit before it starts and plead for mercy. A
challenge should be a last resort, when players cannot
agree upon what should happen. It’s much easier and
more fun to agree. If you use the rules only as a contin-
gency to fall back on, storytelling is emphasized.
• Enjoy the surprises — Be ready for surprises and
learn to enjoy them. Other players are certain to plot
against you without your knowledge, so don’t be upset


Chapter Seven: Advice
141
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
when a trap is sprung. In order to keep the game interest-
ing, the Narrator may introduce events and characters
with powers that are not covered in these rules. Don’t
argue with a Narrator when he uses something new or
even invents something on the spot. The world your
character occupies is full of mysteries; you shouldn’t
know how everything works. Treat each situation as a
puzzle, and attempt to deduce a solution. That’s what
your Narrator hopes you will do.
• Be patient with changes— Be patient when things
change in midstream. The Narrator may tinker with the
rules a bit to restart the story, or perhaps she didn’t realize
that you could use a certain power to undo her story
completely. If you did a particularly good job creating
your own plot, the Narrator may have to put your events
on hold to think about what happens. Try to tell the
Narrator about your plot ideas before the game, so she has
time to decide how your plot will affect hers. If your ideas
are good, the Narrator will probably thank you and write
your plot into the next story. She is probably thirsting for
ideas, and yours are essential to keep the game running.
Live Settings
The atmosphere of the game is of utmost importance.
When deciding on a place to stage a story for The
Apocalypse, be aware of several things. This game is
primarily meant to be played in your home. Do not play
anywhere that you feel that you cannot maintain control
of the game. Do not play where your actions can be
misconstrued and warrant an investigation by outsiders
to the game. When playing The Apocalypse, be aware of
the property you play on. Part of this game deals with
understand the natural world, and the great outdoors
makes a wonderful setting for a story, but be careful not
to trespass on other’s property or play in public areas that
will draw undue attention to your game. If you use your
common sense, a game of Apocalypse can be a memo-
rable and safe experience for all.
The Apocalypse can be played almost anywhere, but
extreme caution must be used when playing outside the
home. Never play in a place where the game will attract
too much attention. This will not only distract the
players from the story, but could also warrant unwanted
attention from law enforcement officials who would not
understand the premise of the game. Don’t allow this to
deter you from the game. There are plenty of great places
that would make an optimum setting for the story. It is
merely suggested that you consider the social dynamics of
a particular setting before choosing it for a game.
The scale of the game should be considered as well. If
you are planning a game with many players, say 20 or 30,
a small, crowded coffee house would not be a proper
setting. Instead, you would opt for a larger place where
the players would have room to move about and interact.
In another example, if you are running a smaller game,
perhaps with only five or six players, then you would not
want to set the game in a large club where the players
would be too removed from one another and the plot of
the story would begin to drag. Again, you would opt for
a smaller area of play, such as a conference hall or coffee
house (or your home), that would better facilitate the
story and the player’s needs. By giving proper consider-
ation to the play area, the story will run much smoother
and the players will be able to assume their roles to a
greater degree.
Make the setting as real as possible. Make the players
believe that they are there by making the setting as
vibrant and alive as possible. By putting a little effort into
the setting, the players will be able to take their charac-
ters to greater levels and, in the long run, this will make
the Narrator’s task easier and more enjoyable.
While we suggest that Apocalypse should played at
home, or at least in a private setting, several suggestions
of places where you can stage a game are listed below. If
you do choose to play in one of these places, we strongly
suggest that you obtain permission before doing so. Ad-
ditionally, you should never play on private property
without the owner’s permission.
• Party— Raves, nightclubs, parties or anyplace where
loud noises blend into the background.
• Anarchy— Warehouses, parking lots or anyplace
that draws as little attention as possible.
• Political Intrigue— Hotels, coffee houses, confer-
ence halls, museums, shopping malls or your home. This
style of gaming can be played just about anywhere, as it’s
typically low-key.
• Moots— Public parks, recreation areas, the woods
on your property or any private location in a wilderness
setting can prove to be useful for this type of game.
Understanding the great outdoors is part of what The
Apocalypse is all about.
Remember, The Apocalypse is a tribal game, one that
conveys both sorrow and hope. The end of the world is
approaching, and Gaia’s warriors are working to save her.
The settings will vary depending on the story. Below are
several suggestions as to how you can add depth to your
game by changing the play environment to one that suits
the mood of the game.
Staging a game outdoors requires a little effort on the
part of the Narrator. A bonfire roaring in a forest clearing
can provide the setting for a moot, although care must be
taken so as not to attract unneeded attention, and com-
mon sense is always required when building a fire. There
the players can tell stories of honor and glory, tales of the
past and of a hopeful future. Some of your games will work
well in this environment. The outdoors sets the mood of
The Apocalypse and is also safe for the integrity of the
game, insuring that no outsiders will interrupt your story.
If you do not choose to play outdoors, your home will
do just fine. Remember, mood and atmosphere are every-


The Apocalypse
142
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
thing to the telling of a good story. Decorate your sur-
roundings as necessary in order to present the proper
effect.
Set Dressing
Decorating your home can be a simple process. Dark
drapes (or sheets over the window), indirect lighting and
certain standing props can help turn your home into a
nightclub or a cave. When decorating your home or
apartment, consider the type of story you’re telling. As
stated before, mood and feel are essential. They must be
conveyed to the best of your ability. A dark tablecloth
and a candlelit room can dramatically change the famil-
iar feel of a room and make it seem like someplace
different.
Talk with your friends about “set design”; they may
have access to a variety of unusual items to help decorate
your home. Try to keep a central area open to allow
players some freedom of movement. Clutter should be
avoided. When decorating small meeting areas, try to
contrast them to the main area. If you are using different
areas of your home for different scenes and you’re at-
tempting to create a different location, decorate it so as
to make it appear dramatically different than the room
down the hall. This will help a lot in maintaining the
mood and flow of the story.
If you must perform a set change during the course of
the story, do so quickly. It is advised to have everything
standing by, so that when you must change scenes, you
can do so quickly and efficiently without breaking up the
flow of the story and allowing the players to slip out of
character.
Music
Music can be an integral part of establishing the mood
of the story. It lends a hand in creating drama and, when
appropriate, tension. When planning your story, make
certain to select music that complements your intended
mood. Also make sure that you have a variety of music on
hand in case the mood changes.
Be careful not to play the music too loud; players
shouldn’t be forced to shout to hear one another. Allow
the music to complement the story, not hinder it.
Audio FX
Above and beyond music, certain sound effects can
add depth to the story and catch the interest of the
players. You can find sound effects albums at any music
store, and you’ll find that they’ll help a great deal.
Reproductions of sounds like screeching tires, screams, or
dogs baying in the distance can capture the player’s
attention and make them take notice to elements of the
story they otherwise would miss. In addition, many
nature stores carry CD’s that have sounds of nature,
thunderstorms, streams, etc. These can be useful if you’re
playing a story which should be set outdoors, but is played
inside. Use your better judgment as to what you add to
your game. The final decisions are yours. Add as much


Chapter Seven: Advice
143
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
ambiance to the story as you like; it can be as complicated
as you desire. The players will love it.
In the Company of
Wolves:
How to Host A Moot
Welcome wolves, one and all, my Changing brothers and
sisters, dancers in the high moonlight, welcome! I call thee,
summon thee, bring you hence to witness this circle, this ever-
widening circle, the moot that we call. Hear me! Hear my
howl!
Although the Garou are constantly battling the Wyrm,
they often enjoy fellowship with one another. This is
because the only individuals who can truly understand
their ways are other Garou. Only other Garou can under-
stand their ways, their dreams and their needs. The
Garou are a lonely folk, a dying breed. Their culture and
their community are the last refuges that keep them sane
and keep them alive.
Despite their intense duty and sense of obligation to
Mother Gaia, the Garou cannot be her soldiers 100% of
the time. They must gather together, speak to one an-
other, decide on new paths for the future, and, for what
it’s worth, have fun. The future is uncertain, and these
are the Last Times, but no Garou will survive if all spirits
are broken.
Harano, the dark depression that comes from fighting
the good fight and losing, is an ever-present danger to the
Garou. Although it is chiefly the job of the Galliards to
watch their kin for signs of this blackness, sometimes
even their perceptive eyes cannot see it coming on.
Therefore, it’s important for a Garou to interact with
other Garou and  feel as if they’re a part of their own kind.
The Moot
The moot is like an umbilical cord from Mother Gaia
to her children, the Garou; it provides a lifeline of
spirituality, strength, culture, law, tradition, honor and
history that stretches back into the deepest primeval
times, back to the First Pack.
The moot is structured in a special way that serves
every part of the Garou’s life. Each part of the moot is
separate and distinct, although some septs combine parts
to better serve the Garou.
Narrator’s Note: the moot structure below should
serve as a general guideline. Feel free to alter or add to it
as you see fit. You should appoint one Garou of adren or
elder level to be “in charge” of each section of the moot,
and the Garou who is performing an actual rite (whether
that individual is the Master of the Rite or not) is in
charge of keeping the action moving. A moot can be an
uplifting, exciting experience or it can turn into a long,
dismal bore based on whether or not the leader of the
moot is willing to move the action along and keep the
rites interesting. You should pay attention to the general
energy level of your participants and remember that
there are intentional “breaks” left in the schedule. The
Opening Howl is very loud and raucous; the Opening of
the Sky is meant to be a quiet moment; the Cracking of
the Bone is another loud, quarrelsome, challenge-filled
scene; the Songs and Stories are meant to quiet and calm
while inspiring the Garou, and the Revel is always wild
and crazy.
The Fool
There is a very old tradition among the Garou that a
Fool should be appointed for any moot. What the Fool
does and says is never held against him. He can caper and
dance, make fun of the Litany and dispute the word of
anyone without retribution. Many of the more tradi-
tional septs always have a Fool. The Fool is supposed to
provide a counterpoint so that the other Garou can show
their feelings— in return, the Garou are supposed to
affirm their heritage by refuting the claims of the Fool. Of
course, when a Fool agrees with a sept, that is also an
insult: after all, he is a Fool. This is a sacred duty which
must be taken seriously in the midst of its foolishness.
After the moot, the Fool’s privileges are suspended,
and his words in the moot are supposed to be forgotten
and/or forgiven. This is often hard to do, which is why
many Fools don’t go completely overboard— a wise Fool
nettles where he can do the most good. The Master of the
Rite appoints the Fool for a moot; it’s usually a Ragabash,
although this is not always true.
The Opening Howl
All moots start with the Howl. From among the
Galliards, a Master of the Howl is chosen. The Master of
the Howl is honored for his participation, and his voice
starts the sometimes booming opening howl. After the
last strains of the howl die down, the Master of the Rite
usually recites the Litany— this is increasingly omitted
in these Last Times. The Fool usually reacts vehemently
to the Litany, offering wild suggestions at every point.
Lately, among the Wendigo, Red Talons and Chil-
dren of Gaia and septs where there are more than one or
two lupus, there is a second Howl, a single, mournful song
that is supposed to remind everyone of the dwindling
number of wolf kin, a response to the main howl. It
echoes the fact that these are the Last Times. A lupus
may take offense at a moot if the Mournful Howl is not
sung.
The Inner Sky
This part of the moot starts in silence, and a Theurge
who has been named the Caller of the Wyld will step


The Apocalypse
144
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
forward and, sometimes with four other helpers, will
address the five directions (North, South, East, West and
Within) and ask for their presence as they aid in the moot
(see boxed script, nearby). The Caller will then call up
the totem or totems of the caern and ask for their
presence.
There is a very old Tradition among the Garou that
some Garou take the part of the totems of the sept,
dressing in masks and costumes to reflect that. These
dramatis personae are referred to as the “Shining Ones.”
The Inner Sky is meant to be a method by which the
Garou renew ties of community and respect with their
totem and the spirits around them. If it is neglected at a
caern for more than nine months, the power of the caern
will dwindle. (See the Rite of Caern Building and the
Rite of the Opened Caern in Chapter Four)
Narrator’s Notes: This is a good time to honor and
thank your Spirit Keeper for the work he does at the
caern. Have him play the totem and receive homage from
the Garou in this fashion. Every job should have its little
perks.
Calling the Winds
One of the important parts of the Inner Sky portion of the moot is that it renews the connection that the
Garou have with their spirit relations. Here’s a sample “script” for you to use during the Inner Sky.
Caller of the Wyld (CotW): We have gathered in this sacred place of Gaia, having called our brothers and
sisters of Gaia, and we now call our brothers and sisters of Luna.
(She faces East)
CotW: East Wind! Bringer of the dawn of clear air! East Wind! You who showed us the mirror side, the
other side of the Velvet Curtain, come to us! We thank you for your clear thought and bright light.
(She turns to her right, to the South)
CotW: South Wind! Bringer of the eternal fire! South Wind! You who gave us the fire of rage within, that
we may strike swiftly against our enemies, come to us! We thank you for your fiery anger and your guardian
protection!
(She turns to her right, to the West)
CotW: West Wind! Bringer of the rain! West Wind! You who gave us the Changing Ways, come to us!
We thank you for the many shapes you’ve shared with us!
(She turns to her right, to the North)
CotW: North Wind! Bringer of cold from the mountain! North Wind! You who brought us the Gifts and
the Sacred Ways, come to us! We thank you for your great wisdom and great strength!
(She stands with her hands above her and her eyes to the sky in the spring or summer, or with her hands
pointing palm-down and her eyes to the ground in fall or winter.)
CotW: Inner Wind! Bringer of blessings from Gaia, from within us! You who hold our Mother’s power
within us, come to us all! We thank you for your spirit, and your inner peace.
Cracking the Bone
As the moon rises towards is zenith in the night sky,
the Master of the Howl signals for the stage of the moot
known as Cracking the Bone. This is done with a high
keening howl that ends in a jagged, shattering note,
much like the splinter of a tough dry bone. This is the
traditional time when those at the moot may make their
grievances known, petition their peers for judgment on
matters and propose or question sept policies.
Traditionally, a Philodox elder presides over the Crack-
ing of the Bone and bears the coveted title of Truthcatcher.
She alone recognizes those who would speak and gives
them permission to do so, at least among the more
structured clans.  The eldest among those gathered is
generally allowed to bring any grievance forth first. Some
septs have a speaking bone that is passed about to remind
those present of who currently has the right to speak.
Grievances can concern almost anything— arbitra-
tion between two Garou, accusations of violating the
Litany, approval in endeavors or simple requests for
advice.  In any case, all the members of the sept are
allowed to hear any part of the Cracking of the Bone. In
some tribes, they serve as a jury of peers. The Truthcatcher
can interrupt at any time to ask questions or demand
clarification. Once all is said and done, she will be the
one who hands down the final decision, makes the final
ruling, and, if appropriate, metes the final punishment.
The different auspices showed marked behavior dur-
ing the Cracking of the Bone.  The Ahroun eagerly
suggest trials by combat as the Theurges remain noble, if
not a little distant. Philodox often become entranced by
the quest for truth that they see as the core of this stage
of the moot. The Ragabash shuffle impatient at the
seriousness of the whole affair, while the Galliards nearly


Chapter Seven: Advice
145
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
burst as the Stories and Songs portion of the moot draws
near.
Roleplaying Ideas:
• A stick, bone or other item can actually be used.
• Position the characters in a circle. Speakers rise and
enter the circle to speak or appeal to the Truthcatcher.
• Utilize proper music (low key and somber) and
lighting (pale in general, but bright for the Truthcatcher).
• If a bonfire is used, it should be well-tended and not
too close to players; also check local codes and thor-
oughly extinguish any campfires at the end of a moot.
Stories and Songs
At this stage of the moot, the Master of the Howl once
again assumes the mantle of authority and declares the
beginning of the time of tales. At this signal, the Talesinger
rises and leads the gathered Garou in a eloquent howl
that runs the entire range of the wolf’s scale, beginning
with the highest inaudible whines and descending to a
low, bass rumbling that is more felt than heard.
This is the time when all Garou are reminded of what
it means to be the Chosen Ones of Gaia. In story and
song, parable and poem, the antics, heroics and sacrifices
of those who came before this generation are retold with
an energy and pride that embues the listener with the
strong sense of belonging that is at the core of Garou
society.  This is not just a time for the past, however. This
is the time when new tales will be told about the Garou
who are now sitting at this very gathering. This is the
point when those among the sept who have excelled (or
descended) beyond their peers may hear their name
brought up by the Talesinger and her assistants.
The Talesinger is the moot position coveted above all
others by the Galliards. To them, it is the ultimate
canvas, the primary stage. By reciting the ancient lore of
her kind, and adding her own verses, the Talesinger can
achieve a sort of immortality in the annals of the Garou’s
oral legacy.
Few hopeful Garou of any auspice miss this stage,
however, because being included in the evening’s tales
(in a complimentary fashion, at least) can mean gifts of
Renown for the recipient.  In some septs, any Garou may
petition the Talesinger for the chance to tell a tale to the
collected tribe. In other septs, this would be considered
brash and boastful, and another Garou, preferably a
Galliard, must be convinced or asked to speak on behalf
of the petitioner.
Regardless of the method, those gathered listen to the
tale, and once it is done, the Talesinger will ask if any
present would speak against the supplicant. Offering
opposition can be a very serious insult, akin to calling the
supplicant a liar, but it is a grievance that must be born
out.  The challenger may tell her own tale, and once
finished, the Talesinger will appeal to the collected
Garou for a decision. Those who support the claim to
Renown call out first, and when their howls die down,
those who dissent raise their voices. From this, the
Talesinger then judges whether or not to award the
Renown (and suggests which Traits should be bestowed).
This process is repeated for as many petitions as the
Talesinger will grant, and if the “stage” is crowded, some
may have to wait for the next moot.
Roleplaying Ideas
• Try to capture the feel of primitive theatre. Incorpo-
rate symbolism in props, motions and pantomime.
• Prepare tales to tell, especially ones that have a
moral or bearing on current events in the chronicle.
• Encourage players to write tales to tell.
The Revel
While the members of the sept are still heady from the
inspiring stories of the Talesinger, the Master of the
Howl lets her gaze pass silently over the masses of Garou
until she locks eyes with the Garou that might be this
moot’s Wyrm Foe. The Garou that leads the Revel
represents the consummate warrior, and therefore the
role of the Wyrm Foe is highly sought by many an
Ahroun.
It’s no surprise that many eager Ahroun will desper-
ately try to catch the Master of the Howl’s gaze. Once
eyes meet, the would-be Wyrm Foe rises and closes with
the Master of the Howl.  The two circle each other in an
intense staredown that the challenger must win before
assuming the role of Wyrm Foe. In most septs, the Wyrm
Foe is chosen beforehand, and the staredown is merely for
show.  In some septs, the Wyrm Foe has no such warning
and the staredown is very real. If he is unable to defeat the
Master of the Howl, another will be chosen.
Once the Wyrm Foe has secured her position, most of
her fellows will erupt into a cacophony of howls and
yelps; she is expected to quiet them with a howl that rises
above the din and demands submission.
At this time, the primal passions of the Garou ap-
proach their climax and the Wyrm Foe is the only
measure of control present. She calls for the mock battles,
ritual hunts, displays of strength and wild and reckless
dances that vary in popularity from sept to sept.
As the energy level reaches its zenith, the Garou
present channel their Gnosis into the caern to maintain
its connection to the Umbra. A caern requires two
Gnosis Traits for each power level. The Garou present
can be issued cards to represent their Gnosis Traits.  They
may rend or otherwise destroy these cards to represent
the fueling process.
Roleplay Ideas:
• Write out hunting sequences
• Provide tests of grace and strength
• Use energetic, heavy beat music


The Apocalypse
146
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Narrator’s Notes: Preparing
for a Moot
You may wish to hold your moots on private property
outside, especially if the moon is going to full and bright,
but if you can’t do that, you may wish instead to create a
moot area inside. Decorate the area appropriately and
you may get across the primitive, primeval ritualistic feel
of a moot.
Organize the people in charge of each segment of the
moot, and if you’ve never done this before, you may feel
the need for a rehearsal before the whole sept gathers.
The important thing about the moot is that you keep
it moving. If, for some reason, you skip a section of the
moot, just go on to the next— it’s not going to be a
disaster. If you stop to correct too many problems or to re-
do sections, you’ll never achieve the roleplaying mood
that you’re supposed to evoke: that of being a Garou
among other Garou.
Gatherings
Aside from the moot, there are many other gatherings
that occur in and around the sept. Indeed, even though
moots are rare once-a-month events, there are almost
always Garou around a caern. They come for a sense of
community. They come to share concerns, report to their
elders, and simply to rest on Gaia’s sacred ground. Here
are some of the lesser gatherings that the Garou hold
around their caern’s fire.
Moon Circles
Each auspice elder will hold a gathering once during
her phase of the moon. The Ragabash play jokes on one
another, discuss dark trouble, play games, and go on
scouting missions around the area. The Theurges ex-
change notes on spirit summoning, spiritual happenings
in the area, occult lore and other bits of knowledge while
they cast their divinations and tell prophecies. The
Philodox engage in their monthly verbal swordplay,
discuss various points of the Litany, and go over the
politics of the caern and those around the caern. The
Galliards hold a bardic circle in which all present must
contribute a story or a song, or at least a poem. The
Ahroun have contests and informal challenges, tease and
insult each other, and test their strength and endurance
against each other— a favorite contest is Moon-Leaping,
which involves jumping as high as one can towards the
moon.
Pack Tourney
Garou will get together in packs to serve as teams in a
Tourney, a continuous party, contest and festival. The
packs stick together, and each competes for status and
prized fetishes and talens. A Tourney is usually held after
a particularly important victory against the Wyrm, or in
salute to an honored visitor. A great feast of fresh game
is prepared. Mead, cider, wine and the purest spring water
is served. This is a good way to win Honor, Glory and
even Wisdom Renown without unduly endangering your-
self. Tragically, however, Tourneys are often thought to
be wasteful in these Last Days. Still, even the stern
Shadow Lords and miserly Bone Gnawers will call a
Tourney from time to time.
Turning the Sun
In order to “turn” the Sun, Helios, the Garou have four
special holidays at the times of the solstices and equi-
noxes. Each holiday has a different meaning based on the
time of year. In the Spring, there is a wild bacchanal to
which many Kinfolk and Wolf-Friends are invited and
out of which many Kinfolk are conceived. At Summer,
the Garou dress in their greatest finery to honor Gaia on
Her day, and many Baptisms of Fire are done on that day.
Fetishes are blessed and hidden in the earth in her honor.
In Fall, the quieting land is honored, and the dead of the
past year are remembered. In the Winter, the Garou
believe that the Wyrm’s power grows strong until the
Solstice, at which point Gaia begins to grow powerful
and strong again. Winter Solstice is celebrated with a
huge bonfire, and many Garou are invested with their
new Ranks during this time— many of the fetishes
blessed and created on the Summer Solstice are produced
and given as presents to the cubs of the sept.
Tribal Moots
In addition to the Moot of the Sept, the various tribes
at a sept may also hold a moot from time to time to discuss
tribal business. These moots are called by the tribe’s
elder. It is unwise to miss these moots, for they provide
the elder a chance to guide a Garou’s path towards a
higher Rank, as well as learning about things across the
whole sept. Tribal moots tend be less formal than sept
moots.
The Council of Elders
From time to time, all the elders of the sept will be
called together by the Sept Leader and cloistered in a
clearing, cave or some similar area. The Garou elders will
meet and discuss problems pertaining to the sept, and
they will not emerge until they are all in agreement. A
rattle, staff, or some similar symbol is passed from hand to
hand. One may not speak unless the symbol is held.
These meetings can go on into the late hours, and a hard-
headed elder can keep people from leaving to rest.


Chapter Seven: Advice
147
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Appendix
“Within each of us, there is an Owl, a Rabbit, an Eeyore
and a Pooh. For too long, we have chosen the way of Rabbit
and Owl. Now, like Eeyore, we must complain about the
results.”
—The Tao of Pooh
Wise Bag
Spirit Affinity: Wisdom, Owl, Wolf or the North
Wind
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: Two Gnosis Traits
A Wise Bag is a bag of tokens, bones and other small
chits. When the fetish is activated, the owner can reach
inside and gain a small amount of wisdom about people
in his surrounding area, one “fact” per activation. For
example, the user could learn the breed and tribe of a
specific Garou. This bag does not detect the Wyrm, but
it might tell if someone was a vampire, mage or change-
ling.  A Garou can use the Wise Bag to gain knowledge
of someone’s Negative Traits if he can defeat the person
in question in a Mental Challenge. If any of the pieces
inside the Wise Bag are ever missing for more than 24
hours, the bag becomes spiritually dead and no longer
functions.
Rat’s Tooth Necklace
Spirit Affinity: Rat
Cost: One Fetish Trait
Activation Cost: One Gnosis Trait
Fetishes
Sometimes a spirit is bound to an item, thus giving the
item part of the spirit’s power. A Garou may start with a
fetish if she has bought levels of the Fetish Background,
although most often, fetishes are acquired or even made
during the course of a story.
Fang Dagger
Spirit Affinity: War, Wolf or Snake
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Bonus Traits: Three
Like a normal knife, but sharper. Very concealable.
Also causes an extra wound level.
Moon Watch
Spirit Affinity: Luna
Cost: One Fetish Trait
Activation Cost: One Gnosis Trait
Like a normal wristwatch, except that it shows the
auspice of any one Garou nearby when it is activated.
Appendix


The Apocalypse
148
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
When activated, the Rat’s Tooth gives the user the
temporary Physical Trait: Nimble, the temporary Mental
Trait: Cunning, and the temporary Negative Mental
Trait: Impatient. Whoever wears it gains the respect and
admiration of all the Bone Gnawers in the area, who will
constantly try to barter for it, if not steal it outright.
Sands of Sleep
Spirit Affinity: Lizard, Winter, Desert, Dream, Whale
or West Wind
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: Three Gnosis Traits
When the fetish is activated and slung in an area, all
those in the area must immediately spend a Willpower
Trait or fall asleep. Even if a character spends a Will-
power Trait, he will suddenly develop the Negative
Physical Trait: Lethargic. Those in Frenzy will either fall
asleep (if they don’t spend a Willpower Trait) or come
out of frenzy (although they will not be lethargic at that
point).
The sleep lasts until some loud noise or other outside
stimuli wakes the sleepers, or until they have slept for
their normal sleep period.
Baneskin
Spirit Affinity: Bane, Wyrm or Chameleon
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: One Gnosis Trait
This leather-skin fetish causes other Wyrm spirits to
think that a Garou in the Umbra is a Bane until the
Garou acts differently than a Bane might act. It must be
activated each time the Garou comes under scrutiny.
This fetish also allows a Garou to use Social Challenges
to command and manipulate Banes.
Tear of Renewal
Spirit Affinity: Wolf, North Wind, Engling
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: One Gnosis Trait
These milky white tear-shape stones give a Garou
Gnosis. By spending a Gnosis Trait to activate a Tear, a
Garou will gain three Gnosis Traits, up to his maximum.
The fetish can be used this way seven times before the
spirit within it dies and the fetish becomes useless. The
user may choose to “sacrifice” the Tear to a spirit while in
the Umbra; this gives the spirit all of the remaining
Gnosis, destroys the Engling Spirit, and gives the Garou
one Notoriety Trait.
Klaives
The first klaive was created by Gwydion Wyrmslayer,
a Fianna Ahroun. A klaive is a sacred sword of the Garou.
There are many kinds of klaives, ranging from simple
klaives to the special and powerful Great Klaives, of
which there are only seven in existence. Each klaive has
a spiritual affinity with War, Thunder, Falcon or Stag.
You must have a number of Honor Traits equal to the
level of the klaive in order to be considered a “rightful
owner” of the klaive: if you don’t have the necessary
Traits, Garou will be constantly trying to wrest the klaive
from your possession, either through challenges or out-
right stealing.
Simple Klaive
Cost: Three Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: None
The simple klaive is a steel weapon with a war-spirit
within it. Its bite is deep, and it causes aggravated
wounds. It is always dedicated to the wielder and is
usually tied to the wielder’s wrist in case he is disarmed.
Loss of a simple klaive in battle results in an immediate
loss of one Honor Trait.
Bonus Traits: 3
Negative Traits: None
Grand Klaive
Affinity: War, Thunder, Falcon or Stag
Cost: Five Fetish Traits
Activation Cost: Four Gnosis Traits
The Grand Klaive is a large, usually two-handed
weapon. Not only is it usually made of silver, but it is also
much more deadly. Usually Grand Klaives have another
spirit-power imbued in them.
Bonus Traits: 4
Negative Traits: Unwieldy
Grand Klaives typically have two powers. The first
power is Luna’s Fire, which can be activated to surround
the blade with flame. This adds two bonus Traits and also
causes an additional wound level. The second power is
usually Summoning, which calls the blade to the wielder’s
hand through the Gauntlet. The weapon must be “stashed”
in the Umbra nearby for this power to work: it cannot be
summoned from far away.
Like all klaives, this type of weapon is dedicated to the
wielder and is usually made of “friendly” silver.
Great Klaive
You can’t purchase a Great Klaive; it has to be discov-
ered or awarded. Their powers are legendary, and they are
dangerous in the extreme. Each Great Klaive has a
specific personality and is usually attached to one of the
last Garou Heroes in the world. A Great Klaive can give
the wielder five Traits in combat.
Talens
Talens are like fetishes, except that they are one-use
items. One Fetish Trait can entitle a character a number
of talens, depending on the Spirit Keeper’s decision.


Chapter Seven: Advice
149
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Clear Water
Spirit Affinity: Water, Purity, East Wind
Activation Cost: 2
This talen has a purifying spirit in a flask of water.
When poured into a polluted body of water, the water is
cleansed of taint. When consumed, it acts like the Gift:
Resist Toxin.
Pine Dagger
Spirit Affinity: Pine/Tree, North Wind
Activation Cost: 2
This talen will destroy the Materialized form of a spirit
upon contact. The spirit must immediately spend a
Willpower Trait or will immediately be banished back to
the spirit world. This dagger is made from the heartwood
of a downed pine tree.
Bane Arrow
Spirit Affinity: Falcon, Snake, War
Activation Cost: 3
These act as normal arrows, but do not require a bow.
When released, the arrow flies immediately to the closest
Bane (either in the Umbra or materialized on Earth) and
imbeds itself into the foul creature, doing normal dam-
age. A Falcon’s cry is usually heard as it strikes.
Moon Sign
Spirit Affinity: Wolf, Luna, Wyld
Activation Cost: 3
When a Moon Sign is thrown down before a Garou, he
is forced to immediately change to Lupus form, costing
the Garou a Rage Trait.
Death Dust
Spirit Affinity: Bear, Wisdom, North Wind
Activation Cost: 6
This dust, when sprinkled over a fallen animal, Garou,
or human, allows the Garou using it to ask one question
of the dead entity. As a side-effect, the Dust speeds decay
of the body rapidly, reducing the body to almost nothing
in about 10 minutes.
Wyrm Sign
Spirit Affinity: Chimera, Uktena, South Wind
Activation Cost: 6
This piece of unfired pottery is painted with a sigil of
the Wyrm. It causes all creatures of the Wyrm in the area
to be outlined in green fire and thus be immediately
evident. It will cause fomori to scream in terror; other
Wyrm creatures will react less stringently. If the sigil
painted on the fragment is tampered with ahead of time,
it will not function properly. This fact is generally known
by the Skin Dancers, who hate Wyrm Signs.
Pack Totems
Pack totems are powerful Incarna who are intimately
involved with the Garou and interact with them on a
personal level. When a pack is formed, it is traditional
that one of the totems takes a particular interest in that
pack. During character creation, each character has a
chance to buy levels of the Pack Totem Background.
Before you play your first game as a member of a pack,
you must help your pack choose a totem by the fairest
means available. First, total all the Pack Totem Traits
that are available to your group. Then decide what kind
of totem your pack should have. Each Pack Totem has an
initial cost based on the rank of the spirit involved. Next,
the spirit’s affinity is purchased. Finally, Charms for the
Pack Totem are purchased.
As long as you are a member of the pack, you will gain
benefits based on the affinity of your Pack Totem, and
your Pack Totem will be bound to both you and your
packmates. If you leave a pack (which is accomplished
not by physically leaving, but by formally declaring
yourself to no longer be a member of the pack), then you
take your Pack Totem Traits with you, and the Pack
Totem suffers accordingly. If your pack takes in more
Garou with Pack Totem Traits, you may purchase new
powers for your Totem or upgrade its power level (Gaffling
to Jaggling, or Jaggling to Totem Avatar). Anyone in the
pack may choose to spend Experience Points to give the
Pack Totem more Traits.
Pack Totems usually require a Minor or Major Geasa,
depending on their unique personality and the power
they offer in return. Pack Totems share their power in
two ways: by using effects that apply equally to all pack
members, or by giving a specific Trait to a single pack
member for as long as she requires it.
Pack Totems can be divided into three categories:
Totems of Respect, War and Wisdom
Buying a Pack Totem—
The Cost
Purchasing a Totem Avatar costs a base of five Back-
ground Traits. Alternatively, a formed pack without a
Totem Avatar can spend five experience points and
adopt a totem later in their travels. Totem Avatars are
actual spirits that serve the pack’s Incarna Totem. These
spirits are dependent on the pack for their power. The
pack totem will never have more power than the amount
the pack will give to it. In effect, the pack invests a bit of
itself in the Incarna Totem and, in return, that Incarna
sends a Totem Avatar spirit of appropriate might to aid
and watch over the pack.
Five Background Traits (or experience points) will
provide the pack with a basic Totem Avatar to watch
over them. The more Background Traits and experience
Appendix


The Apocalypse
150
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
the pack puts into the Totem Avatar, the more potent it
will be, and thus, the more helpful it will be to the entire
pack.
Basic Totem Avatar
When a pack gets a basic Totem Avatar, the spirit is
weak. It possesses power roughly equivalent to that of a
Jaggling. However, unlike a Jaggling, a Totem Avatar
can increase in power through contributions made di-
rectly from the characters in a pack. Additionally,
characters can purchase a special affinity for their totem.
If they do so, the totem, drawing upon its affinity, will
endow all members of that pack with unique advantages.
Each avatar has its own unique contributions to offer.
The bigger the contribution, the more costly the affinity.
A pack’s Totem Avatar begins with the following
basic statistics:
Traits: Twelve Traits— these can be divided between
a spirit’s Physical, Social and Mental Traits.
Negative Traits: No more than three
Power Pool: 6
Charms: Two Basic, One Intermediate
Health: Four Levels
Willpower and Rage: Four Traits can be divided
between the spirit’s Willpower and Rage.
Special Bonuses:
Additional Background Traits and Experience go a
long way towards making a Totem Avatar stronger.
Below is a chart  that will show you the costs for purchas-
ing additional Traits and Charms for your Pack Totem.
A Totem Avatar can take up to three Negative Traits
in order to have more Traits.
different options and their costs. These costs are in
addition to the five Background Traits (or experience
points) that the pack initially spent on their totem in the
first place.
Each totem has a contribution (or contributions) that
she makes to the pack. In return for choosing the affili-
ation of the Totem Avatar, the totem refers to the
members of the pack as her children. There are two types
of contributions: general and exclusive. A general con-
tribution can be used by the entire pack, such as giving
each pack member an additional Trait or Traits. An
exclusive contribution is used by only one member of the
pack. The entire pack must decide who will benefit from
this contribution and can use any means agreeable to
decide. If the pack cannot decide who should gain the
benefit of the exclusive contribution, then the Totem
Avatar will withhold the benefit until the pack can reach
a unified conclusion. The pack must cooperate, or they
will lose the use of a very potent advantage. Once a pack
member has the benefit of an exclusive contribution, it
is hers until she either relinquishes it or is no longer a
member of the pack.
Totems of Respect
• Pegasus
The only mythological Totem of Respect, the Pegasus
is a noble winged horse who embodies the pure rage of the
Wyld and the Wyld flying free.
Pegasus gives all of her children an extra Willpower
Trait. Pegasus shares her knowledge of the Wyld by
giving the Animal Ken Ability to her children.
Geas: Pegasus asks that her children always aid fe-
males of all species who are in need, especially young
ones.
Cost: Three Traits
• Stag
To the Fianna, Stag symbolizes life, death and rebirth,
and they follow his grand wisdom. Stag gives each of his
children one Willpower Trait and shares with them his
knowledge of the woods by giving each pack member the
Survival Ability.
Geas: You must always aid faeries or their kin.
Cost: Four Traits
• Grandfather Thunder
Dark Thunder sits on his shadowed throne and calls
the powerful Garou of the world to him. He sends his
Stormcrows to places where his children need his aid, but
he never travels to such places himself. Still, his Totem
Avatars are just as powerful as those of other Incarna—
they carry the might of Thunder. Thunder grants each of
his children two Willpower Traits and shares his majesty
by giving them the Social Traits: Commanding, Intimi-
dating and Dignified. All Children of Thunder, however,
must gain one Negative Social Trait: either Callous or
Condescending.
Trait or Charm Purchased
Background Trait
or Experience Cost
• Additional Trait
(Physical, Mental or Social)
1
• Additional Willpower,
Power (Gnosis) or Rage Traits
1
• Basic Charm
2
• Intermediate Charm
4
• Advanced Charm
6
• Additional Health Level
8
Totem Avatars
 The pack can chose an affiliation for its Totem
Avatar, and it is recommended that they do so. They
must decide who their Totem Avatar will serve. Direct-
ing a Totem Avatar’s affiliation can be costly to the pack,
but it can also help provide strength. Listed below are the


Chapter Seven: Advice
151
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Geas: You must never tell the truth to those you do not
respect. You must never submit to unjust authority. You
must display your strength.
Cost: Six Traits
• Falcon
Great Falcon, the raptor of the Silver Fangs, watches
over Honor and Justice in the Garou world. Those who
dare his high aeries come away with stories of Glory and
Honor to match those of the greatest legends. Falcon
sends his children to watch over the most promising
packs, particularly where Silver Fangs are prevalent.
Falcon gives each of his children two Willpower Traits
and lets them share his glory by giving them the Leader-
ship Ability.
Geas: All Children of Falcon must have at least one
Honor Trait. Falcon will not choose packs that are not
honorable enough. If a child of Falcon ever loses all of his
Honor, he must immediately perform the Rite of Contri-
tion and do something, anything to regain it. Until then,
Falcon will not aid the child’s pack.
Cost: Four Traits
• City Father/Mother
This is typically a Glass Walker Totem. The City
Father is the spirit of a city— the city embodied in spirit.
For example, New York is a husky Italian man named
Frank, while Atlanta is a slightly charred but still beau-
tiful southern belle with flaming red hair.
The City Father Totem grants all of his children one
Influence Trait having to do with his city: either Bureau-
cracy, High Society, Finance, Health, Industry, Legal,
Media, Police, Politics, Street, Transportation or Under-
world. In addition, the City Father shares his secrets by
giving his children the Streetwise Ability. He will select
one packmember to use this Ability, but may choose to
pass it on to another one later.
Geas: The City Father will occasionally ask for “fa-
vors.” Do them, and do them quickly.
Cost: Five Traits
Totems of War
• Rat
Cunning and sharp, Rat is a Totem of survival, but can
be fierce if corned in a fight. Rat provides all his children
with an extra Physical Trait: Brutal, and shares his will to
survive by giving one member of a pack the Streetwise
Ability.
Geas: You must never kill vermin.
Cost: Two Traits
• Fenris
Also known as Grandfather Wolf, Fenris is the war-
rior-wolf. He is the slavering, wild son of Loki. He
expects no quarter and gives none. He provides all his
children with the extra Physical Traits: Ferocious and
Appendix


The Apocalypse
152
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Tough. He provides no extra aid, preferring to make his
children prove themselves to him.
Geas: You must never turn up the opportunity for a
fight.
Cost: Six Traits
• Griffin
A mythological Totem of great rage, Griffin is the
expression of the anger of all lupus, and he understands
their hunger for blood. Griffin gives each of his children
the Physical Traits: Ferocious and Tenacious, as well as
the Negative Social Trait of either Bestial or Tactless.
Griffin shares with one of his children the ability to speak
to any bird of prey.
Geas: You must not associate with humans, and homids
are not usually accepted by Griffin.
Cost: Three Traits
• Wendigo
This monstrous giant is the master of weather and
strength in combat. He teaches Garou the wild tactics of
the storm in battle. Wendigo gives his all his children
two extra Rage Traits to spend and will share his knowl-
edge of weather and insights into the wilderness by giving
the Survival Ability to one member of a pack.
Geas: You must aid native peoples whenever they are
in trouble.
Cost: Four Traits
• Bear
The Great Bear is a fierce warrior, but is also very wise
in peacetime. Children of the Bear are all given the
Medicine Ability and gain the Physical Trait: Stalwart.
One of his children in a pack can share part of his healing
powers and gain the Gift: Mother’s Touch.
Bear is a totem that has fallen out of favor ever since
the War of Rage, when the Gurahl (the werebears)
fought the Garou. Therefore, it should be much harder
for any Pack of the Bear to gain Honor Renown, and both
the Narrator and the Philodox of a Sept should take this
into account.
Geas: Bear lays no Geas on his children, wisely know-
ing that they are burdened enough.
Cost: Six Traits
• Coyote
The ultimate Trickster, Coyote first taught the Garou
how to step sideways. All Children of the Coyote can step
sideways in half the time it takes other Garou. They also
gain the Mental Trait: Cunning and the Physical Trait:
Nimble. One of Coyote’s children can share his ingenu-
ity by gaining the Gift: Open Seal.
Coyote will accept any old ragtag collection of Garou,
even those who are not necessarily Garou. He will
literally accept anyone who will have him. However, all
Children of Coyote will soon discover that they are often
used as scapegoats when bad things happen, as Coyote is
seen by some to be bad luck. Packs who follow Coyote are
not considered to be especially Wise, and this should be
noted by the Narrator and by the Theurges of a sept.
Geas: Coyote makes no demands on his children.
Cost: Seven Traits
Totems of Wisdom
• Owl
Stealthy and silent, Owl is a floating predator who flies
mostly at night. He sees many things, knows many
secrets, and keeps his silence. Owl grants all of his
children the Mental Traits: Reflective and Wise. He
shares the ability to soar in the Umbra with one of his
children— effectively giving that Garou the ability to
travel quickly in the Umbra by spending a Rage Trait or
a Physical Trait.
Geas: Owl asks that his children leave animal sacri-
fices to him in the forest.
Cost: Five Traits
• Unicorn
Proud and powerful, this mythological Totem is the
symbol of unity and mystical strength among the Garou.
Although some think her gentle nature belies weakness,
that is a foolish assumption. Unicorn’s strength lies in her
purity of purpose and the sharpness of her horn. Unicorn
gives all of her children the Social Trait: Diplomatic and
the Mental Trait: Calm. In addition, Unicorn gives one
of her children the ability to cleanse by touch, although
the child must first spend two Gnosis Traits. Use the rules
for the Rite of Cleansing to represent this.
Geas: Unicorn asks that her Garou promote peace and
understanding for all Garou, regardless of tribe, auspice
or breed.
Cost: Four Traits
• Cockroach
Hardy, quick and adaptable, Cockroach has been
around for a long time and will be around after the
Apocalypse is but a memory. It provides two things to all
its children: the Streetwise Ability and the ability to
Peek into datastreams and onto computer disks, “read-
ing” the information that is there. (See the section on
“Spirits”).  One of its children can share its computer
access by giving the pack an Ability with Computers.
Geas: Cockroach asks that none of its brethren be
slain by the pack.
Cost: Five Traits
• Chimera
Chimera is the ever-changing mythological totem of
enigmas. She is a puzzle, as well: she appears in many
forms, a different one each time she shows herself. She
gives all her children the Mental Traits: Cunning, In-
sightful and Reflective, and each child must choose one
Negative Trait: Forgetful, Oblivious or Shortsighted.
She shares her disguising ability with one member of
the pack. That packmember can spend one Gnosis Trait


Chapter Seven: Advice
153
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
and appear as whoever or whatever she wants to imper-
sonate, although she doesn’t gain any of the special
knowledges or abilities of that person or thing. This
disguise lasts only for a short time at best (ten minutes)
and can be seen through with a successful Mental Chal-
lenge.
Geas:  Chimera will not seek you if you do not seek
enlightenment.
Cost: Five Traits
• Uktena
This ancient water spirit watches over his children in
the Umbra. He gives the pack a single Umbra Influence
Trait, which can either be used to find out what’s going
on in the Umbra or to negate a Notoriety Trait. He also
provides them with the Physical Trait: Tough when they
are in the Umbra. He provides one of his children with
the ability to step sideways instantly.
Geas: Uktena asks that his children hold and protect
(and not use) lost artifacts and fetishes. He also asks that
they be continually on the lookout for artifacts that are
missing or lost.
Cost: Seven Traits
When Worlds Collide
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, people who work against the
players characters are called antagonists. Occasionally,
players  assume the roles of antagonists and face off
against other players. This works especially well if the
game has a large number of players. For the most part,
though, antagonists are played by Narrators.
Elder Garou
Elder Garou are the individuals who are ultimately
responsible for the safety of a caern. Though not techni-
cally antagonists, characters may come into contact with
elders during the course of a story. Elders typically have
10 primary, 8 secondary and 6 tertiary Attribute Traits.
An elder may also have from five to ten Gifts (including
Intermediate and Advanced Gifts).  Most have ten or
more Abilities. An elder will also have access to many
Rites, possibly even ones not listed here.
Elders wield great power in Garou society, and it would
be foolish for a younger Garou to challenge one for any
but the most important reasons.
Hunters and Humans
Humans present an interesting challenge to Apoca-
lypse.  Players encounter humans on a constant basis.
Humans can be valuable contacts or deadly adversaries.
Some humans known as Kinfolk have close ties with
the Garou. These humans have Garou ancestry, but did
not inherit the gene that allows them to shapechange.
Though most Kinfolk are wonderful allies for the Garou,
there are a few who have become jealous of their brethren’s
power and seek to steal it for themselves. These Kinfolk
are among the most insidious of the Garou’s many en-
emies and are known as Skin-Dancers (see below).
Another source of great danger to the Garou is Pentex,
a massive megacorporation controlled by the Wyrm.
There are some aspects of Pentex that are not of the
Wyrm. Most of the lower-level employees are ordinary
people, and many branches are run entirely by mortals
engaged in legitimate business activities. Many of its
upper-level agents, however, are controlled or possessed
by Banes. Pentex Strike Teams and security agents are
well-armed and equipped to deal with the Garou threat.
In fact quite a few fomori (see below) are numbered
among them.
Skin-Dancers
Very little is known these enemies of the Garou. It is
said that they are Kinfolk of the Garou who have been
transformed into Garou through the use of a secret ritual.
Skin-Dancers are not inherently Wyrm-tainted, although
most of them do bear some taint. Many of these “Garou”
have undergone the transformation out of resentment for
the power their brethren have.
Most Kinfolk have Attributes and Abilities similar to
those of standard Garou. They do not, however, possess
any Gifts unless they have allied themselves with a
particular totem or received instruction by Banes. Those
taught by Banes will certainly bear the taint of the Wyrm.
(Further information on Skin-Dancers is contained in
Chaos Factor.)
Fomori
Fomori are humans who have been become complete
servants of the Wyrm. As such, they have been granted
special powers and abilities. These abilities come with a
price— each fomor has been twisted in a foul and
perverse manner. Although this perversion is not always
readily apparent to the eye, all fomori carry a reek of
Wyrm-stench that is obvious to any who are able to
detect it.
Most fomori have Attributes and Abilities similar to
Garou, although many may have boosted Attributes in
one or more areas, generally Physical. Each one will
possess some strange mutant ability or power that they
can use against opponents.
Vampires
Known as “Leeches” to the Garou, these undead
beings primarily live in the Wyrm-corrupted cities. They
are the traditional enemies of the Garou, although not all
of them bear the taint of the Wyrm. In fact, some of them
have been known to ally with the Garou.
The youngest members of their race have Attributes
and Abilities similar to those of Garou characters, al-
though their elders are creatures of incredible power.
Appendix


The Apocalypse
154
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
their magick to warp reality around them in whatever
way the Storyteller sees fit, depending on the level of
power of the mage.
Mummies
Mummies originated in ancient Egypt.  They all have
one thing in common: they have received the Spell of
Life, an ancient Egyptian ritual that renders the recipient
immortal.  Of all the individuals inhabiting this dark
world, Mummies are the only ones who experience the
continuous cycle of life and death.  They are therefore
true immortals and are rarely extinguished.
Mummies rarely involve themselves in the affairs of
others, although there is a distinct faction among them
that works against a clan of vampires called The Follow-
ers of Set.  Indeed, the very beginnings of the mummies
can be found in Set’s dark history.  When a mummy does
involve herself in Kindred affairs, it is often for personal
reasons.  Most mummies are aware of the existence of
Garou, whom they call Lupines, and are aware of their
various strengths and weaknesses.  A mummy’s typical
role is manipulative rather than confrontational.  How-
ever, their knowledge of Garou weaknesses and their
centuries-old skills make them deadly adversaries. It
should be noted, however, that they are exceedingly rare:
there are only 43 mummies known to be left in the world.
Mummies have access to various potions and amulets
(many of which can grant them additional Traits).  A
They have their own powers, called Disciplines, which
are similar to Garou Gifts. For further information on
vampires in live-action, see The Masquerade, Second
Edition.
Mages
Mages are practitioners of ancient arcane lore, also
known as magick.  Mages are humans of great power and
most Garou avoid them whenever possible. However, a
few Garou have been known to ally with mages, occa-
sionally forming friendships.  Mages practice their own
form of the Veil, keeping them out of sight of mortals and
most Garou.
Mages can add depth to a story, but they should
generally be used only as Narrator characters.  A mage
can be a useful contact should a character seek an item of
a mystical nature.  It is possible that a mage could request
a service of some sort in exchange for the item. Such
contact with mages can lead to a whole series of new
stories.  A mage could even be a Garou’s patron, offering
rituals or enchanted objects in exchange for information
the Garou can access, such as the names of spirits. Some
mages seek to steal power from the caerns of the Garou by
tapping caerns to fuel their magicks.
Mages have the usual Attributes and Abilities of the
average Garou, with Mental Attributes being primary.
They always have at least one Willpower Trait, as one
must be strong-willed to work magick. They may use


Chapter Seven: Advice
155
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
mummy begins with 8 primary, 6 secondary and 4 tertiary
Attribute Traits.  Bear in mind that, because of their
immortality, it is entirely possible for mummies to have
considerably more Traits.  Mummies can come from any
profession in ancient Egypt and therefore vary widely in
Abilities.  Each has at least eight different Abilities.
Some mummies even have magical powers at their dis-
posal.
Ghosts
Ghosts are creatures of
great passion, monsters
who possess a will to live
that defies even death. As
they stem the tides of pain
and suffering within their
souls, they fight to main-
tain their ties to the
physical world. Hidden in
the Underworld, the dark
side of the Umbra that
lies just beyond the world
of mortals, they exist
trapped between a world
that does not want them
and a realm consumed by
the growing force of
Oblivion.
The Restless Dead live
a tragic mockery of their
former lives as they hold
on to their feelings for the
people and places that
were important to them
in life. The living deny
the existence of the dead,
yet the ranks of the dead
still feed on the world of
the living. Live-action
rules for ghosts will be
detailed in The Oblivion,
an upcoming supplement for Mind’s Eye Theatre.
Faeries
Sometimes the Garou encounter beings that have
never been fully explained. A variety of beings draw upon
the power of  magic to cross into this plane of existence
from a realm called “Arcadia.” Perhaps they are attracted
to magic and magical places like moths to a flame. For the
purposes of Mind’s Eye Theater, we shall refer to them
as faeries.
Faeries exist in a magical realm.  Arcadia, the
Otherworld, Hy-Brasil, Tir-na’nogth— regardless of the
name used for this
realm, it is the place
where the fey are all-
powerful.  Their forays
into this world are but
accidental intrusions.
It is usually on days of
special magical import,
such as Samhain (Hal-
loween)— the day that
gates between the
worlds are weakened—
that faeries enter the
mortal world. Some
Garou, particularly the
Fianna, have a sort of
kinship with the fey,
and may even at times
call on faeries or the
kin of the faeries for
aid. As with all deal-
ings with faeries, there
is always a price.
Faeries prefer to not
be seen in our world.
They use a variety of
natural Obfuscation
powers.  Faeries gener-
ally 
have 
high
intelligence (Mental
Traits are primary).
Faeries also have their
own form of magic,
which no Garou has
ever learned.  Few things are known to harm faeries, but
there is legend that cold iron may drive them back to
their own realm.  Knowledge of faeries is limited to
legend, however. The secrets of their world remain to be
seen.
Appendix


The Apocalypse
156
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Gift
Cost
Test
Page
Adaptation
Gnosis
n/a
99
Alter Scent
Mental
n/a
88
Attunement
Gnosis
Simple
94
Aura of Confidence
Gnosis
n/a
98
Babble
Gnosis
Mental
97
Baccantes’ Rage
Gnosis
n/a
93
Balor’s Gaze
Gnosis and Rage Mental
95
Beastmind
Mental
Mental
97
Beast Life
Gnosis
Simple
87
Berserker’s Song
Rage
n/a
96
Blissful Ignorance
Mental
n/a
88
Blur of the Milky Eye Mental
n/a
87
Body Wrack
Gnosis
Mental
93
Bridge Walker
Gnosis
n/a
91
Call Flame Spirit
Gnosis
Simple
100
Call of the Wyld
Gnosis
n/a
91
Call of the Wyrm
Gnosis
n/a
91
Call the Breeze
Gnosis
n/a
101
Call to Duty
Gnosis
Simple
90
Calm
Social
n/a
94
Calm the Flock
Gnosis
n/a
97
Camoflauge
Mental
n/a
101
Catfeet
Gnosis
n/a
87
Chill of Early Frost
Gnosis
n/a
101
Circular Attack
n/a
n/a
100
Clap of Thunder
Gnosis
n/a
98
Clarity
Gnosis
n/a
100
Command Spirit
Gnosis
Mental
89
Control Complex Mach. Gnosis
Simple
97
Control Simple Mach.Gnosis
Simple
96
Counting Coup
n/a
Simple
101
Coupe de Grace
Gnosis
n/a
93
Create Element
Gnosis
n/a
85
Curse of Dionysis
Gnosis
Mental
98
Curse of Hatred
Gnosis
Social
86
Cutting Wind
Gnosis
Simple
101
Cybersenses
Gnosis
n/a
96
Detect Spirit
n/a
Mental
87
Disfigurement
Gnosis
Social
98
Disquiet
Gnosis
Social
85
Distractions
n/a
Mental
91
Doppleganger
Gnosis
n/a
97
Elemental Gift
Gnosis
Simple
87
Exorcism
Willpower
Mental
89
Eyes of the Cobra
Gnosis
Social
91
Faerie Blood
Gnosis
n/a
95
Faerie Kin
Gnosis
n/a
95
Falling Touch
Gnosis
Physical
92
Fatal Flaw
Gnosis
Mental
98
Fenris’ Bite
Gnosis and Rage Simple
96
Feral Lobotomy
Gnosis/Willpower Mental
89
Fetish Doll
Gnosis
Static
100
Fool’s Luck
n/a
n/a
88
Geas
Gnosis
Mental
90
Gift of the Porcupine Gnosis
n/a
86
Gift
Cost
Test
Page
Gift of the Skunk
Gnosis
Physical
93
Gift of the Spriggan Gnosis
n/a
95
Gift of Termite
Gnosis
Mental
94
Gnaw
n/a
n/a
87
Gorgon’s Gaze
Gnosis
Mental/Simple 93
Grasp the Beyond
Gnosis
n/a
89
Grovel
Gnosis
Social
86
Halo of the Sun
Gnosis
n/a
94
Halt Coward’s Flight
Gnosis
Mental
95
Head Games
Gnosis
Mental
91
Heart of Ice
Gnosis
Mental/Simple 102
Heat Metal
Gnosis
n/a
97
Heightened Senses
n/a
n/a
86
Howl of the Banshee Gnosis
n/a
95
Ignore Wound
Willpower
n/a
99
Infest
Gnosis
Mental
94
Invoke Spirits of Storm Gnosis
n/a
102
Inspiration
Gnosis
n/a
92
Jam Technology
Mental
n/a
85
King of the Beasts
Gnosis
Social
90
Kiss of Helios
Gnosis
n/a
93
Lambent Flame
Gnosis
n/a
99
Long Distance Running Gnosis
n/a
97
Luna’s Armor
Gnosis
n/a
94
Luna’s Avenger
Gnosis
n/a
100
Luna’s Blessing
Gnosis
n/a
88
Madness
Gnosis
Social
86
Malleable Spirit
Gnosis
Mental/Simple 90
Mastery
Gnosis
Social
99
Mental Speech
Mental
n/a
86
Mercifal Blow
Gnosis
n/a
100
Message Glance
Gnosis
n/a
99
Messenger’s Fortitude Mental and Gnosis n/a
98
Might of Thor
Gnosis and Rage n/a
96
Mindblock
Gnosis
n/a
99
Mindspeak
Metnal
n/a
91
Mother’s Touch
Gnosis
n/a
89
Name the Spirit
Mental
Simple
89
Obedience
Gnosis and Mental Mental
98
Odious Aroma
Gnosis
n/a
93
Open Seal
Mental
n/a
88
Open the Moon Bridge n/a
n/a
88
Open Wounds
Gnosis
Simple
98
Paralyzing Stare
n/a
Mental
85
Paws of the Newborn Gnosis
Mental
99
Persuasion
n/a
Social
85
Phone Travel
Gnosis
n/a
97
Pointing the Bone
Gnosis
Physical
100
Power Surge
Gnosis
Mental
97
Preternatural Aware Gnosis
n/a
100
Pulse of  the Invisible n/a
Simple
89
Quicksand
Gnosis
Simple
97
Razor Claws
Rage
n/a
92
Reach the Umbra
Gnosis
Simple
99
Reduced Delerium
n/a
Social
85


Chapter Seven: Advice
157
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
Gift
Cost
Test
Page
Resist Pain
Gnosis
n/a
90
Resist Toxin
Gnosis
n/a or Physical 95
Roll Over
n/a
Social
90
Rot Weavertech
Gnosis
Simple
98
Secrets
Gnosis
Mental
100
Sense Magic
Gnosis
None or Mental 100
Sense Silver
n/a
Simple
92
Scent of Running Water Mental
n/a
87
Scent of Sweet Honey Gnosis
n/a
93
Scent of the True Form n/a
Mental
87
Sense Wyrm
n/a
Simple/Static Mental 85
Serenity
Gnosis
Mental
94
Shed
n/a
n/a
86
Sight from Beyond
n/a
n/a
89
Silver Claws
Gnosis
n/a
92
Smell of Man
n/a
Simple
85
Snarl of the Predator Social
Social
95
Song of Rage
Gnosis
Mental
91
Song of the Siren
n/a
Social
91
Speak with Wind Spirits Gnosis
n/a
101
Speed Beyond Thought Gnosis
n/a
99
Speed of Thought
Mental
n/a
98
Spirit Drain
Gnosis
Mental/Simple 89
Spirit of the Fish
Gnosis
n/a
100
Spirit Friend
Gnosis
n/a
94
Spirit Speech
n/a
n/a
89
Spirit Vessel
Gnosis
Static Mental 90
Spirit Ward
Gnosis/Mental
n/a
85
Gift
Cost
Test
Page
Strength of Dominator
n/a
Mental
98
Strength of Purpose
Gnosis
n/a
90
Strength of Will
Willpower
Mental
92
Stoking Fury’s Furnace n/a
n/a
92
Summon Talisman
Gnosis
n/a
99
Surface Attunement Gnosis
n/a
100
Survivor
Physical or Willpower n/a
94
Take the True Form Gnosis
Mental
90
Taking the Forgotten Gnosis
Mental
88
The Guilty Mind
Gnosis
Social
94
Tongues
Mental
n/a
85
Totem Gift
Gnosis
n/a
86
Troll’s Bridge
Gnosis
n/a
95
True Fear
Gnosis
Social
92
Truth of Gaia
n/a
Mental
90
Unicorn’s Grace
Gnosis
n/a
94
Venom
Physical
n/a
87
Venom Blood
Gnosis
n/a
96
Violation
Gnosis
Physical/Simple88
Wall of Granite
Gnosis
n/a
90
Wasp Talons
n/a
n/a
93
Weak Arm
n/a
Mental
90
Whelp Body
Gnosis
Mental
88
Wisdom of the Seer
Gnosis
n/a
100
Wither Limb
Gnosis
Physical
86
Woadling
Gnosis
n/a
95
Wrath of Gaia
Gnosis
Mental
99


The Apocalypse
158
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse


Chapter Seven: Advice
159
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
 
Physical Traits
 
___________________________  
 
Crinos:
 
___________________________  
 
Ferocious x2
 
___________________________  
 
Robust
 
___________________________  
 
Relentless
 
___________________________  
 
Brawny
 
___________________________  
 
Quick
 
___________________________  
 
Lupus:
 
___________________________  
 
Ferocious
 
___________________________  
 
Tireless
 
___________________________  
 
Quick
 
Gifts
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Social Traits
 
___________________________  
 
Crinos
 
___________________________  
 
and Lupus:
 
___________________________  
 
Bestial x2
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
Renown
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Mental Traits
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Abilities
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
The Apocalypse
 Player Name:______________________
 Character Name:____________________
 Chronicle:_________________________
Concept
 Auspice:____________
 Breed:_____________
 Tribe:______________
 Pack:______________
Backgrounds
______________________________________
______________________________________
______________________________________
Battle Scars
______________________________________
______________________________________
______________________________________
 Nature:_____________
 Demeanor:__________
 Totem:_____________
© 1994 by White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved. Repreoduction
without the written permission of the publisher in expressly forbid-
den, except for the purpose of reviews. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre and The
Apocalypse are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. All characters,
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf, Inc.
Health
Bruised —  One Trait penalty to initiating challenges.
 Wounded —  Lose all ties. If your opponent has more
 traits than you do, he may also make an additional test.
Incapacitated —  Out of play for ten minutes — must
 heal at least one wound level before you can move or
 challenge.
 Mortally Wounded —  Revert to Breed Form. Will
 lose one Physical Trait every ten minutes unless you
 receive medical assistance; otherwise you will die.
 Rage: O O O O O O O O O O
 Gnosis: O O O O O O O O O O
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○


The Apocalypse
160
The Apocalypse
The Apocalypse
 
Physical Traits
 
___________________________  
 
Crinos:
 
___________________________  
 
Ferocious x2
 
___________________________  
 
Robust
 
___________________________  
 
Relentless
 
___________________________  
 
Brawny
 
___________________________  
 
Quick
 
___________________________  
 
Lupus:
 
___________________________  
 
Ferocious
 
___________________________  
 
Tireless
 
___________________________  
 
Quick
 
Gifts
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Social Traits
 
___________________________  
 
Crinos
 
___________________________  
 
and Lupus:
 
___________________________  
 
Bestial x2
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
___________________________
 
Renown
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Mental Traits
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
Abilities
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
 
______________________________________
The Apocalypse
 Player Name:______________________
 Character Name:____________________
 Chronicle:_________________________
Concept
 Auspice:____________
 Breed:_____________
 Tribe:______________
 Pack:______________
Backgrounds
______________________________________
______________________________________
______________________________________
Battle Scars
______________________________________
______________________________________
______________________________________
 Nature:_____________
 Demeanor:__________
 Totem:_____________
© 1994 by White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved. Repreoduction
without the written permission of the publisher in expressly forbid-
den, except for the purpose of reviews. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre and The
Apocalypse are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. All characters,
names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf, Inc.
Health
Bruised —  One Trait penalty to initiating challenges.
 Wounded —  Lose all ties. If your opponent has more
 traits than you do, he may also make an additional test.
Incapacitated —  Out of play for ten minutes — must
 heal at least one wound level before you can move or
 challenge.
 Mortally Wounded —  Revert to Breed Form. Will
 lose one Physical Trait every ten minutes unless you
 receive medical assistance; otherwise you will die.
 Rage: O O O O O O O O O O
 Gnosis: O O O O O O O O O O
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
