Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


i 
1. 
u o m  Ancient Hearth-Ekes 
Once cavemen told each other stories of the day's hunt, 
of the things beyond the firelight. In these modern nights, 
we tell each other stories of hunters again - 
hunters 
who shun the sunlight and seek human blood for 
sustenance. What lies outside the streetlight's beam? 
What hides in the alley's shadow? What stories will you 
tell to keep the darkness at bay? 
under ToniqhYs sfreetliqhfs 
This book is chock hlfof exciting information to build 
richer Masquerade chronicles. Want to bring. in a very 
I 
diffkrent an&onist? Here are the Baali, the Na&uajah, th; i 
True Brujah. Want to try something different at your next ! 
game? Here's how to play with flashbacks and other new 
Storytelling techniques. Plus, idormation for running better 
crossovers and a few pointers, such as the Internet's place 
inyourgameorhowtobuild 
iting scene descriptions. i 
" 
' 
W" 
* i _  
I 3 D I U  I - > O U 4 0 - 3 U 5 - Y  
W W 5 0 2 1  $ 1 5 . 9 5  U . S .  
5 1  5 9 5  
781 588 465030 
PRINTED IN USA 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Bronger’s Park isn’t my favorite place, even on a good night. The 
layout frankly stinks - 
it’s mostly a long slope overgrown with creeping 
vines and brush that runs down into a valley where the fog collects and 
a little stream meanders through. Not much for lights, which means the 
place turns into a pit after dark. The original idea for the place came from 
some Audubon Society do-gooder who wanted something “natural.” In 
this city, “natural” means “neglected,” so Bronger’s is now a favorite 
after-dark spot for just about anything that shouldn’t be happening in 
public. Consequently, Gina and I (who play beat cops for the brick who 
likes to pretend he’s sheriff) spend a lot of time there. 
Over the past six months, there’d been a bunch of bodies showing up 
in the valley, all with serious blood loss and strange mutilations, which 
means we’ve got to assume the worst. Even better, the bodies had been 
found by mortals out for their morning jog or walking the pooch or 
whatever, and the papers were all over it, yammering about serial killers. 
So Prince Warner is screaming at the brick for the heads of the Masquer- 
ade-breakers, which means the brick is screaming for ours if we can’t hunt 
this bastard down. Which brings us to tonight. 
We’re hanging out in Gina’s car in the upper parking lot, watching 
the lower lot and waiting for something to show up. Gina’s grumbling 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


about how much she had to pull down with the police so they didn’t run 
us off park grounds like necking kids, I’m mentally calculating my odds 
on tomorrow night’s races, and it’s the 10th night running we’ve been 
on stakeout, with nothing. That’s when a car pulls into the empty 
parking lot below us. Gina nudges me, and I lean over for a look. Older 
model sedan, dark color, with the plate-light disabled. I make a mental 
note to check the plate and have it run. 
The car parks, cuts its lights and sits in the darkness for a few 
minutes. Finally, the driver’s door opens, and a dark-skinned man in 
a suit gets out. No one I recognize. The passenger side opens too, and 
a black girl gets out. She’s dressed in a nice-looking skirt and white 
sweater, maybe a college student. 
They start heading for the crude stairway of dirt and railroad ties that 
goes down through the creeper and into the valley. My hand’s on the door 
handle, but Gina lays a warning hand on my arm. No, not yet. They 
descend, and as they dip just below sight and out ofhearing range, she opens 
her car door and we follow. 
We descend from the upper parking lot to the lower one, and I 
check the car as we pass - 
a dealer’s drive-off plate, damn him. Still, 
the car isn’t one I recognize from the parking lots during court. Now 
we’re moving into the weed-choked darkness, following the faint 
trail they’re leaving behind. Gina’s leading - 
I’m following what I 
can see of her dark jacket and pale hands in the starlight. Around us, 
the trees seem to close in, like great hands cupping around an insect 
to trap it. I’m no more paranoid than usual, but this feels different. 
It feels like something is watching us, maybe from the trees or laying 
in the masses of creeper. I shrug my jacket into place, tapping at the 
two stakes and silenced pistol I’ve got laying in wait. 
We’re approaching the valley. I can smell water and damp soil, hear 
the faint gurgle of the stream passing over rocks. The rest of the woods 
is strangely quiet - 
no birds, no crickets, nothing but the water. The 
watching feeling is getting stronger; my fists clench, almost automati- 
cally. Then there’s another smell - 
incense of some sort, something 
exotic, spicy. I stop on the trail to get a better read on the situation. 
Now I hear what sounds like groans, and I pause. Caution turns to 
frustration. Christ. Just two kine wanting a cheap place to rut. I reach 
for the hood on Gina’s jacket to pull her back, but she’s stepped out of 
my reach. Irritated, I try to close the distance between us, and that’s 
when the other smell hits me. 
Blood. 
I ate earlier, so I’m not feeling hungry. The cool air of the valley now 
seems more like a slaughterhouse - 
thick, moist, strangely warm, the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


incense mingling with the coppery stench in a mix that’s starting to make 
me queasy. I almost crash into Gina, who is standing stock-still on the trail. 
We look at each other, and I know what she’s thinking, because I’m 
thinking it too: Found him. Whether it’s a messy Kindred, or a kine gone 
batshit, we found our valley serial killer. 
She’s holding her flashlight (which could cold-cock a man) like a club. 
I check again for my means, and take out my pistol. She motions to me that 
we should circle around and catch him from behind. I motion that I think 
otherwise, but she indicates he’s currently too busy to notice us. I sigh 
inwardly - 
at least her risks are calculated ones. 
I creep through the brush, trying not to think about what could be 
under my feet, focusing on the noise the whole time. I can just make out 
movement about 10 feet away. I remember the student girl had that white 
sweater, and what’s ahead of me looks darker. The sounds are starting to 
change, but I’m not sure what’s happening. I hear wet, meaty tearing.. . 
gulping.. . little growls deep inside the throat.. .. 
I see Gina about three feet from me, and the slashing motion she uses 
to indicate “get ready.” I turn my face toward the noise, pistol in hand and 
ready to scare something shitless. Someone is squatting on the ground, bent 
over something dark, and the growls and groans seem to be coming from 
him. Gina’s flashlight clicks. Suddenly the guy’s in a spotlight, and my 
evening meal is trying to climb my throat. 
The man turns on us, snarling with surprise, his mouth a bloody gash 
in his face. Blood runs from his open mouth, and I realize he doesn’t have 
fangs. In one hand is a lump of dripping, maroon-colored flesh. The 
student, her mocha skin now ashen and mottled, is laying under him, her 
eyes wide and blank. Her white sweater has turned mostly crimson. The 
smell of blood, incense and death would make a lesser man faint. 
The guy drops his meal and makes a run for Gina, who’s too 
stunned by the scene to react. The flashlight is knocked from her 
hand, hits the ground, and the beam rolls before it’s stopped by a tree 
and lights up the dead girl’s face. He shouts a bunch of gibberish, and 
Gina briefly whirls past me, her hands batting at her face and she’s 
screaming something like “Get them off me!” I’ve got a stake in my 
hands, and I’m trying to find this guy, and suddenly it’s there’s 
hundreds of angry voices howling and screaming in my ears, and tiny 
mouths biting me, digging into my flesh. I drop the stake while I’m 
trying to fight off whatever’s swarming me. Whatever it is, I can’t lay 
hands on it - 
even as I swat at my face, I’mgetting bitten on my hands 
and mouth. 
Even in the middle of this Charlie Foxtrot, I manage to crash into 
the monster. As I’m fumbling desperately for the other stake, he grabs 
my tie to pull me toward him. I can see his teeth - 
all pointed, like 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


a shark’s. I try to find enough purchase to push his face away, but the 
swarm is making it tough. He yanks my head back and starts to bite 
into my cheek - 
he’s actually ripping the flesh out of my face, and his 
teeth are scraping the bone- 
He shrieks and drops me. I look up through a haze of pain, and he’s 
facing down Gina, spitting out the hunk of my cheek as he does. The 
stake I dropped earlier is buried in his left flank, the point sticking 
bloodily out of his lower ribs. Maybe we’re more fight than he planned for. 
Maybe he just wants to get away. For whatever reason, he turns and runs. 
I tell Gina to follow him, but the swarm of.. . whatever.. . makes a last pass 
at her, she trips and falls a couple times, and that’s the end of that. I hear 
tires squealing as his car peels out of the parking lot. 
I will my mangled cheek to close over so I don’t lose more blood. Gina 
returns, picks up her flashlight, and I can see she has dozens of tiny gouges, 
like bite-marks, all over her exposed hands and face, like me. Her hands 
are shaking and her pallor is pronounced as we turn our attention to the 
student. It’s hard to tell what killed her -the massive bite to the throat, 
blood loss (the ground is saturated with it), the long jagged knife-wound 
down her torso, her missing liver ... 
The air in the valley has definitely turned hostile. It sounds 
strange, I know, but it’s not a friendly place to be right now. We both 
stagger up the hill to retrieve the tarp kept in the trunk for clean-ups, 
and spend a few minutes fixing the crime scene as fast as we can - 
unidentifiable lumps of flesh, blood-spattered leaves, soil that practi- 
cally screams when we step on it -always 
within sight of each other. 
The paranoia and menace I felt earlier is returning with a vengeance, 
and whatever’s out there is pissed at us for disturbing what happened. 
Caine forbid this thing comes back for a doggy bag. 
As soon as things look passable, we stow the body in the trunk and get 
the hell out of there. * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
My elder, Matisse, doesn’t turn around from the monitor when Gina 
and I come in, and at first, I think he didn’t hear us. His fingers are moving 
a mile a minute on the keyboard, his concentration on the scrolling words. 
After a few moments of this, I clear my throat, and his fingers pause, 
hovering above the keyboard. He leans toward the monitor as if scrutiniz- 
ing something, then says, “Ah, Nick. Is Gina with you?” 
“Yes, sir,” I reply. 
There’s a pause, he seems to take a breath, and I know he’s adjusting 
forms. Gina’s cool with usual Nosferatu attire, but it’s still polite to put a 
face on for company. After a few moments, he turns to us, wearing his usual 
mask. Normally, Matisse isn’t one to show when he’s rattled, but I see his 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


eyes widen as he takes us in - 
bites, blood and all. In the next moment, 
he’s all business. “Tell me everything.” 
I notice Gina’s hands starting to shake again, and decide I’d better 
do the talking. Matisse doesn’t say a word while I tell what happened, just 
looking at me with that long, thoughtful stare that he uses every time he 
gets secondhand info. 
I wind up by mentioning the body in the trunk and how things 
currently stand down at Bronger’s, and he just nods and doesn’t say 
anything. He seems to be considering the space on the floor in front of us, 
pursing his lips, and the lines on his forehead getting deeper by the minute. 
You could power a city block with the tension in this place. 
Finally, he glances up at us with hooded eyes. Maybe he thinks we’re 
bullshitting him. I feel Gina tensing beside me, and God’s truth, I am too. 
I know I wasn’t dreaming tonight; I know Gina wasn’t, and there’s a body 
in our trunk that says we weren’t. 
“So what was it?” I ask. 
That’s when Matisse, my always-knows elder, who probably never 
admitted he was stumped in his last life or this one, looks confused. He 
hesitates before he says: “I have no idea.” 
For the first time that night, I’m frightened. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CREDITS 
Written by: Kieran Dewhurst, Earle “Glas” Durboraw, Matthew Hooper, Edward 
MacGregor, Brett Smith, Cynthia Summers 
Developed by: Cynthia Summers 
Edited by: Richard Ruane 
Previously published material has appeared in: Blood Magic: Secrets of 
Thaumaturgy, Vampire Storytellers Handbook 
Art direction by: Aaron Voss 
Art by: Laura Robles 
Front and back cover design: Pauline Benney 
Layout and typesetting by: Pauline Benney 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


T 
PROLO~UE: 
SLO 
CHAPTER ONE: 
CHAPTER Two: 
'TS 
CHAPTER THREE: 
BLOOD 
IC 
CHAPTER EOUR: WH 
CHAPTER 
~ I V E :  S 
CHAPTER SIX: UNDE 
I 
I O  
I4 
42 
76 
116 
158 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Are you a Storyteller? Are you an Assistant Storyteller or Nanator ? Do you entertain 
notions of becoming a Storyteller? Well, come on in, because this book is for you! 
This is part translation from the Vampire Storytellers Handbook, part 
collection of things Storytellers are likely to find helpful and exciting. It’s not about 
being given a Bible of Storytelling Mind’s Eye Theatre or a mandate on how to 
run your game. Think of it as a bunch of Storytellers hanging out with our feet up, 
a cold one in hand (non-alcoholic, of course), talking about this thing we love and 
hate and spend so much of our free time on. 
Come in, have a seat, the soda’s in the fridge, and let’s get cozy. 
9 
ATE CRAS H E R  s 
We’re fully aware that even now there are players picking up this book. Now 
there is some material that they might find helpful, but it may not mean their 
intentions are altruistic. Maybe they want to try trumping the Storyteller with her 
own tools, or maybe they want to “be prepared” for the Storyteller’s next tricks. We 
play as well as Storytell, and there’s something to be said for reading the Storyteller 
sections to figure out what’s ahead. 
That said, trying to use what you’ve read to trump the Storyteller is frankly not 
nice. Remember way back in Laws of the Night, where we said the object of the 
game was not winning but telling stories? That’s not the action of someone who 
wants to tell astory, but who wants to win, who wants to beat the Storyteller at her 
own game. It seems to us that all that will accomplish is spoiling potential surprises 
for other players, and creating antagonism (or adding to it). 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


So, even if you’re bound and determined to read ahead, at least refrain from 
being a weasel and spoiling your fellow players’ enjoyment of the evening’s 
entertainments. If you’re bursting to tell someone about the neat things you’ve read 
and created already, tell your pets, dig a hole in the backyard and tell the worms 
or scribble it out to yourself. Let the story unfold in its own time and let the 
Storyteller do her job. 
H O W T O  USE 
THIS 
BOOK 
As stated earlier, this is part translation from Vampire Storytellers 
Handbook and part collection of interesting topics that a Storyteller might 
find value in. We also included the new blood magic paths from Blood Magic: 
Secrets of Thaumaturgy. 
You’ll find things in here you disagree with- that’s always a given. But there’s 
also things in here that you can agree with. Hopefully there’s information in here 
that makes you pause and reconsider your chronicle or gets you excited about a 
story that seemed to be dying ungracefully or solves a persistent problem. 
Chapter One: Introduction -The 
official welcome to the party. 
Chapter Two: The Thousand Eyes -Here’s an introduction to some of the 
most disturbing denizens of the World of Darkness, and their murderous ways. 
Chapter Three: Blood Magic -The new blood magic paths and rituals from 
Blood Magic: Secrets of Thauamturgy. 
Chapter Four: Wheels Within Wheels - 
In this section, you’ll find the 
conspiracies to make the Freemasons look like child’s play, from the Manus Nigrurn 
to the Week of Nightmares. 
Chapter Five: Storyteller Help- Did a player figure out your plot too early? 
Wondering what to do with the Web? Want to try something different in your 
chronicle but don’t know where to start? Look here! 
Chapter Six: Under One Dark Sky - 
We know you’re going to do it. 
Crossovers, that is. If you’re going to do it, you might as well do it safely, and this 
chapter will help you out. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I DON’T NEEDA 
STORYTELLER 
C ~ U I D F !  
Sure, there are going to be some folks that say, “I’ve got my chronicle under 
control, I don’t need someone else’s buttinsky advice, and everything’s cool.” 
That’s great you’re so confident about the state of your chronicle. As we said, we’re 
not out to tell you otherwise. But for those times when you’re not so sure, we’ll be 
here and waiting. 
THE 
STORYTELLER’S 
CREED 
We all have those nights when the thought of Storytelling makes us green 
with fright. We don’t know why we’re putting ourselves through this torture; 
we second-guess ourselves when we make judgment calls; we cringe at the 
thought of refereeing a fight. Consider the mission statement of Storytellers 
everywhere. Repeat this mantra when you find yourself questioning why you’re 
hauling yourself out to a game, when you need confidence to tell someone his 
request is (to put it politely) addled or when you just need that extra boost to 
remind yourself what it’s all about. 
Take this book and head for your favorite mirror, something that will allow 
you to see a little more of yourself than, say, a compact. Now, look yourself in the 
eye and repeat: 
I am the Storyteller. I am here to tell sm’es. 
People come to me to hawe a good time, and I will do my best to give it to them. 
Without the story, there is no game. A good stov is my goal and my guide. 
I will recognize that I can’t please everyone, no matter what I do. When in doubt, 
I will be fair and balacedinmy judgments. I wdl notplay faworites or punish without cause. 
I will do what is best for the game - 
I will deny the bad charmer concept, the 
I will have the guts to do what is necessary, especdly when it’s unpleasant, be it 
I will do my best to be open to the players’ needs and understandingof their concerns. 
If a player comes to me with u grievance, I will listen and try to help her. 
Ifewer Ifindmyselfnot hawingfun, I willgive myselfabreukrather than let thegame 
I am the Storyteller. Let the story unfold. 
Now that that’s done, let’s get to work. 
I will favor the story. 
unreasonable request, whining and temper tantrums. 
mediating a dispute or banishing a disruptive player. 
or phyers suffer. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


In this chapter are three bloodlines that have almost vanished from 
the World of Darkness, and with very good reason. The Cainites herein 
have bloodily carved out places for themselves, and found roosts upon 
which to squat (most usually consisting of a pile of elegantly butchered 
corpses). As the opening story shows, these creatures are Tare. Even elders 
are unlikely to have heard of these vampires beyond a few stories whis- 
pered in the corners at a grand conclave, or So-and-so’s sire having a 
particular encounter back in 1547, or the like. In short, any encounters 
with these creatures should be suitably momentuous. Because of the 
frightful powers of their Disciplines and their “lifestyles”, these Cainites 
can easily throw game balance out the window into heavy traffic. They are 
best used as Storyteller characters. 
The fact that not even elders know much about these monsters should 
put the fear of Caine in the younger generations. What Man (and 
Kindred) does not know, he fears, and here are no less than three 
bloodlines that the majority of Western Kindred know nothing about. 
Resist the temptation to put one of each in every city - 
that defeats the 
purpose of their rarity. When they do appear on the screen, make their 
time memorable, and impress on the characters that the World of Dark- 
ness has some secrets not worth knowing. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BAALI 
Even monsters have their bogeymen. To their erstwhile cousins, the 
Baali are the devils under the bed. Legend claims that an Antediluvian dallied 
with a singing slave-boy, and the youth turned against the Third Generation. 
He wrought foul pacts with those who hid between the shadows of this world 
and the next and gathered followers from his Cainite siblings. Calling himself 
shaitan, he and his followers made war against the Second City. The Third 
Generation ended the war with the deaths of the shaitan’s generals, routing 
their hordes. None knew what happened to the shaitan himself, and the names 
of what he had served were lost to the night. 
Once thought eradicated by the Inquisition, the Baali have come into the 
awareness (and enmity) of modern Cainites and are rooted out wherever they 
are found. Faced with an infestation of Baali, Camarilla and Sabbat often set 
aside personal agendas to burn the offending nest from sight. The recent 
unearthing of a Baali hive, along with the recovery of their unholy tomes, has 
cast doubt on the long-held belief of their destruction. 
Never numerous, the ranks of the Baali have dwindled even further in 
recent nights as more and more succumb to a wasting erosion of spirit. They 
are beset on all sides by the Camarilla, Sabbat, and a host of enemies, and their 
internal unity fractures nightly. Their havens are visible to those who know 
the signs - 
strange sigils in hillsides, the prevalence of places of power, 
children and livestock in nearby villages born deformed. Contrary to popular 
belief, they are not the cackling, mustachioed minions of evil, but sages and 
academics intent on the discovery of knowledge few others have the courage 
to pursue. They are evangelists, of a sort, bent on the task of bringing all to 
destruction for the greater glory of Those-Who-Wait. 
Roleplaying Hints: While some Demons do fit the tongue-wagging, 
leather-clad devil worshipper profile, most Baali look on these as marks of 
immaturity or, in more persistent cases, evidence of someone seriously 
missing the point. It becomes difficult to convert the faithless if you cannot 
be taken seriously. Seduce your prey, not with wild displays of “evil” but with 
a genteel and urbane offer of enlightenment. Let them know that the truth is 
theirs to be had, if they but ask for it. Do not force the issue. The sweetest 
conquest comes from the willingly conquered. 
As Baali age and grow wise in the ways of their masters, they fall further 
and further from their human roots. Many older Demons develop an affecta- 
tion for vermin, keeping them as pets or companions, sometimes in vast 
hordes to rival those of the Nosferatu. Many young Demons have Humanity 
(albeit abysmally low), but fall off rapidly and take up a different path. Some 
older Baali follow the Path of Cathari or Death and the Soul. Recently, though 
many have taken up the Path of Evil Revelations and Power and the lnner Voice. 
There are whispers of a Path particular to Demons, the Path of the Hive, but 
none have dared get close enough to the Baali to know for sure. 
Disciplines: Daimoinon, Obfuscate, Presence 
Advantage: The very existence of the Demons is bent toward the 
discovery of dark secrets and hidden lore. By their nature, the Baali seek out 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


forbidden knowledge and forgotten paths to power. As a result, all who come 
to the Blood gain a free Occult Ability to reflect their rigorous study of the 
darkest roads. This focus is not exclusive to the magical world. The Baali 
treasure all forms of learning and typically make inroads into academia and 
the halls of mundane power as easily as in the occult world. Neonate Demons 
may also choose one bonus trait in University or Occult Influence. 
Disadvantage: Perhaps because of the nature of their patrons, or even if 
just the lingering ghosts of human morality, the Baali are particularly affected 
by acts of faith. When confronting a mortal with True Faith, all Baali must 
risk twice the normal number of Traits to even have a chance of succeeding. 
If struck by a holy symbol wielded by one of True Faith, the Baali takes twice 
the damage normally inflicted. Most cannot even handle any paraphenalia 
related to religion. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


N A ~ A R A J A  
Reviled for their unsavory practices by all but the most charitable of 
Kindred, the Nagaraja’s ranks have eroded in these late nights to the point of 
insignificance. Once rumored to be members of a secret cult called the Black 
Hand, the bloodline is no more than a handful now. A war deep in the 
Underworld has whittled away at their ranks until less than 20 (some sources 
say no more than a dozen) remain. 
Most tales put their origins somewhere in the Middle East, but rumor and 
truth are nigh indistinguishable when it comes to the Nagaraja. What is 
known is that they are necromancers on par with (or greater) than the 
Giovanni, that their troves of blasphemous knowledge are prodigious and 
that not only the blood of their victims is needed to sate their hunger but the 
flesh as well. Victims of their hungers are often a beacon to the Camarilla and 
Sabbat, who hunt them mercilessly. 
With their numbers shrinking nightly and their eldest destroyed, 
there aren’t many takers who would wager on the Nagaraja’s continued 
existence. Isolated from Kindred and kine alike by their gruesome diet, 
hunted by the ghosts they once commanded, the Flesh Eaters can do little 
but hide and watch the world go by, eking out meager unlives before Final 
Death comes at last. 
Rumors have filtered west from Korea of an ancient court of Eastern 
vampires offering a dozen or so of the surviving Flesh Eaters sanctuary, but 
poor relations between Cathayans and Cainites have prevented confirma- 
tion. If the rumors are true, perhaps the Nagarajah are not finished, but biding 
their time and gaining strength. The wise Cainite rules nothing out. 
Roleplaying Hints: Yours is a solitary existence, an unlife of discipline 
and study. Those that may have once been your allies have all perished 
beyond the Shroud. Those who were your slaves pursue you in hopes of 
taking vengeance. You do not have the luxury of the occasional misstep. 
Only a handful of your blood remains, and you mean to keep yours as long 
as possible. You cannot afford the extravagance of Humanity. Your very 
existence denies it, calling out for the flesh of the kine to sate its terrible 
hunger. Immortality is precious and terrible, power its only salve. Cling to 
both and you just might live to eat the flesh from your enemies’ bones. There 
can be no sweeter morsel than that. 
The peculiarities of the Nagarajah diet leave little room for maintaining 
one’s Humanity. As a result most Flesh Eaters opt for the vampiric Paths of 
morality and often choose the Path of the Bones or Death and the Soul. 
Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate, Necromancy 
Advantage: Hunted for millenia as the most vile of monsters, the 
Nagaraja have developed a knack for deception, if only for the sake of 
concealing their studies and dietary needs. All Nagaraja receive a free 
Subterfuge Ability. In addition, their scholarly pursuits and morbid interests 
lead them to make inroads as they can in fields where such things might, at 
the very least, be tolerated if not appreciated. Each may choose one Medicine, 
Occult or University Influence trait at no cost. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disadvantage: Not only must a Nagaraja drink blood to maintain her 
existence, she must also eat of her prey’s flesh. Without fresh meat, a 
Nagaraja’s body wastes away. As with Blood Traits, a mortal has 10 Flesh 
Traits. Unlike blood, however, each Flesh Trait consumed by one of the 
Nagaraja inflicts one health level of unsoakable lethal damage - 
this is not 
skimming off the top, but loss of muscle tissue or organs. For every night that 
a Nagaraja does not eat at least one Flesh Trait, she loses two Physical Traits 
as her body withers away. This deficit must be repaid in full before she can 
return to complete health. Every point of flesh consumed after such an 
episode restores two Physical Traits, up to the character’s normal maximum. 
Nagaraja do not have retractable fangs like other Kindred. Instead, their 
mouths are full of sharp teeth like a piranha’s. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TRUE 
BRUJAH 
Every family has its secrets. The True Brujah have borne one such secret 
for centuries. Sagacious and erudite, the Elois are the scholars the Brujah often 
aspire to be, ensconced in their studies as firmly as iron rods set in stone. Sage 
philosophers that they are, the True Brujah bear a legacy of bitterness as well. 
It is the claim of the Elois that the founder of their blood was slain by its childe 
ages ago, and that those who claim the name Brujah are no more than the bastard 
childer of that ancient diablerist. Carthage, they say, the city so lauded and 
lamented by their cousins was, in fact, the pinnacle of their achievements, where 
they strode godlike over the night. As timeless as the Kindred themselves, the 
Elois’s resentment for their fractious kin festers into these nights. 
For all their claims of once-shared blood, the True Brujah hold none of 
their cousins’ passion. Cold and imperturbable, the Elois pursue ancient lore 
and discourse with serpentlike detachment. Indeed their Blood does seem to 
deaden the spirit as it preserves the flesh, immutable as stone. And for all their 
vaunted mastery of Temporis, time itself bears hard upon them, each descend- 
ing into anachronism as the present climbs swiftly from the past, unable to 
muster warmth enough to thaw their glacial ways. 
Events of recent nights have struck hard again at the Elois. As with the 
Nagaraja, the True Brujah found shelter and collaboration in the Black Hand 
cult. Since the destruction of that order and some of the eldest of their blood 
along with it, the Elois have sought allies where they may, particularly with 
their African neighbors, the Followers of Set. Though they do not share 
philosophies, there is some common ground between them. Each seeks 
hidden knowledge though to different ends, and in these nights, when safe 
haven is a scarce commodity, that much is more than enough. 
Roleplaying Hints: Passion is the haven of the ignorant, emotion the 
crutchof mediocrity. You are of the true blood and lifted far above such things. 
All things are yours to observe and understand. Calm is the tool of the learned. 
Be calm. Disdain the ignorant and the unrestrained. Be patient and wise. 
When time at last runs out, you alone will remain to watch a universe die. 
Most True Brujah adhere to Humanity, though elders sometimes espouse 
the ideals of Paths of Enlightenment unique to them alone. There are even 
the infrequent followers of the Path of Typhon among those True Brujah who 
have dealings with the Setites. 
Disciplines: Potence, Presence, Temporis 
Advantage: The True Brujah are academics without peer. They typically 
devote their long unlives to obscure and esoteric pursuits, gathering vast pools 
of knowledge over uncountable subjects. As a result, each True Brujah 
receives one Academics Ability at no cost and may choose an additional 
Ability in any one Lore for no cost as well. 
While solitary by nature, the Elois do value discourse and intellectual 
debate very highly. To this end, the clan meets twice each century to discuss 
current developments and argue the finer points of philosophy. Some small 
cells continue this contact between the larger meetings and occasionally 
assist their brethren in scholastic pursuits. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-+t 
i 
e 
Disadvantage: Even as it lends vigor to their long-dead flesh, so does the 
blood of the Elois smother their emotions. This decaying passion draws them 
further and further from the living world, washing away over centuries of 
study all semblance of human warmth. In the end, though they might debate 
the concepts of morality in great depth, they can no longer feel what is right 
and what is wrong. Those that can take up the Paths of vampiric morality. 
Those that cannot are consumed, the vast knowledge they’ve amassed forever 
lost to the ravages of the Beast. As nights go on it grows ever more difficult 
for the True Brujah to maintain their connection to their Humanity. Elois 
wishing to increase their Morality or Virtue traits must pay double the 
standard experience point costs. On all Conscience and Conviction challenges, 
True Brujah must bid two extra Traits or automatically lose the bid. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


DISCIPLINES 
DAIMOINON 
In the blackest temples of prehistory, ancient priest-kings made sacrifice 
to their dark masters and as the sibyls spoke, their lives fleeing with their 
breath, the arts of Daimoinon were writ on parchment of skin and bound up 
in flesh. Wielded by the faithful, passed from sire to childe, the arts of 
Daimoinon are subtle, potent and wholly evil. 
This power retests with the Occult Ability. 
Sense the Sin 
Like calls to like, and the first lesson of the Baali is to hear with the ears 
of one’s darkness. Invoking the power of their masters, the Demons may 
hear the call of the secret evils that hide in all souls: the doubts, the fears, 
the petty envies. 
To use Sense the Sin, the Baali must engage her target in a Mental 
Challenge, bidding Traits in accordance with the depth of knowl- 
edge sought. By risking a single Trait, the Demon may learn some 
small transgression or weakness: a lack of resolve (low Willpower); 
cowardice, callousness or poor control (low Virtues); or even some 
small personal failings (a Negative Trait). A t  two Mental Traits, the 
Demon may learn more intimate knowledge: a dangerous secret or 
undiscovered crime. With three traits, the Baali opens the door to 
her target’s soul, exposing derangements or similar flaws, past diablerie 
(though not necessarily the identity of the victim) or other deeply 
hidden sin. 
Note: Just what exactly is learned is always the decision of the Storyteller 
and should be couched in subjective terms. For example: “Anabelle is always 
the first to run when words come to blows” rather than “Anabelle has just one 
Courage Trait.” 
BASIC DAIMOINON 
Fear of the Void Below 
At this stage, the disciple has begun to wield the power of his masters. 
With the footholds of sin as his guide, he may invoke the horror of those 
beyond and inflict it on his target. 
Before invoking the Fear of the Void Below, the Demon must first 
perform Sense the Sin on his target, ferreting out what might cut a path 
to the victim’s heart. For every Trait beyond the first successfully 
risked in Sense the Sin, the Baali gains one Trait to use to invoke the 
Fear of the Void Below. (This challenge may occur at any time, up to one 
night prior to the use of Fear of the Void Below. If the sun rises before 
Fear of the Void Below is used, the Baali must start again from the 
beginning.) When the target’s secret is known, the Demon then 
engages her in a Social Challenge, and should roleplay the verbal 
assault on her target’s hidden sin. By playing on the fear and shame of 
the secret, explaining the unavoidable consequences of the target’s 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


crimes, the inevitable retribution to be exacted, the Baali inspires 
abject terror in his victim. For a one-Trait risk on Sense the Sin, the 
target stands trembling before the Baali until she ceases her verbal 
assault. If two Traits were used for Sense the Sin, the target flees as 
though taken by Rotschreck. For three Traits, the target faints dead 
away and remains unconcious until disturbed. 
The target may avert Fear of the Void Below with a Courage Test. 
Conflagration 
At this level of mastery, the Baali may actually call forth a 
portion of what lies Beyond, channeling some of the power of her 
masters as an eerie flame. For the brief time it burns in this world, the 
flame may take any number of forms from a barely visible shimmer in 
the air to a ripple of jet black fire. Conflagration’s destructive power 
is never in dispute and often reminds its viewers of traditional tales 
of the infernal. 
With the expenditure of a Blood Trait, the Baali calls into being 
a bolt of black flame which can then be hurled at her enemies as a 
Physical Challenge. Typically, if the bolt strikes its target, it inflicts a 
single aggravated wound and gutters out immediately. The Baali may 
elect to maintain the flame by spending a Blood Trait each turn for as 
long as she wishes it to remain. The target must remain in sight and the 
Baali must maintain full concentration or the flame will vanish, but for 
every turn the Baali maintains the flame, the target suffers another 
aggravated wound. 
Kindred confronted with this mystical fire must make Courage tests to 
prevent Rotschreck just as if facing a normal flame of similar size. Targets may 
dodge as per any other ranged attack. 
I N T E R M E D  I ATE DAI M O  
I N O N  
Ps ychomachia 
After mastering the ability to draw power from beyond, the Baali now 
learns to shape that power into a living nightmare. Striking deep into his 
victim’s psyche, the Demon may draw out her deepest fears and give them 
physical form. 
After performing Sense the Sin on her intended target, the Baali 
spends a Willpower Trait and forces the victim to make a Virtue Test 
against her weakest Virtue with a difficulty equal to the number ofTraits 
the Baali successfully risked in Sense the Sin. If the target fails, an 
apparition from the darkest hours of her past (perhaps a childhood 
boogeyman or a lost lover) takes shape, visible and material to her alone. 
The victim must immediately make a Courage Test or fall into frenzy. 
Even if she succeeds in the Courage Test, the victim must then face 
terror given flesh. Most often, this nightmare construct will have Traits 
identical or slightly inferior to the victim herself. The final state of the 
entity is fully at the Storyteller’s discretion and all damage suffered in 
the subsequent struggle should always be completely illusory. At worst, 
the victim may suffer unconsciousness or a brief torpor for dying at the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


* 
i 
C 
hands of fear. For purposes of combat with the victim, the psychomachia 
should be treated as a normal, material being. If the Baali stops concen- 
trating, the spectre vanishes. 
ADVAN 
C B  D DAI M o I N o N 
Condemnation 
Since the first of the Baali crept into the wilderness and made an 
abominable pact with forces beyond this world, their childer have forged a 
litany of contracts and bargains with infernal powers longer than can be 
counted in the lives of even the Methuselahs. The Baali can call upon these 
ancient pacts to lay a curse on his enemies with all the power and hatred of 
the infernal legions. 
To invoke the curse, the Demon must first give voice to the deed, 
enunciating his condemnation in detail before engaging in a Static 
Willpower Challenge against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower traits. 
If successful, the Baali must then sacrifice a number of permanent 
Mental Traits, reducing his permanent total by that number for the 
duration of the curse. For every Trait sacrificed, the Baali may reduce 
one of his victim’s Attributes, Virtues or Willpower by a single Trait to 
a minimum of one. The Baali may end the curse whenever she chooses, 
although it is unlikely. 
Abuse of this ability may well result in the Baali herself feeling the 
curse as Those-Who-Wait do not take lightly to the frivolous use of 
their gifts. 
€ L D B R  DAIMOINON 
Concordance 
Those Baali who reach this level of enlightenment all make what can 
only be called a leap of faith. In their devotion to Those-Who-Wait- 
Beyond, they have taken into themselves something of their monstrous 
patron and are strengthened by the gift. Such boons are not without cost, 
however - 
legends speak of the Baali priests as twisted monstrosities 
without any resemblance to humanity. 
Once purchased, this ability grants its wielder one of the powers 
often attributed to the minions of darkness, be it flight, an unholy 
resistance to flame, or any of the dozens of infernal gifts spoken of in 
story. Always, though, this gift comes at a price. With the gift of flight 
might come monstrous bat wings; with immunity to flame might come 
a deep bronzing of the skin. Just as varied as the powers bestowed are the 
curses that follow them. Hooves, talons, scales or stranger features are all 
fair game when it comes to infernal investiture. In addition, this 
Discipline may be purchased more than once, allowing for truly mon- 
strous distortions of the Baali’s flesh. 
Players and Storytellers alike are encouraged to use their imagina- 
tions in developing “gifts” granted by the unholy. Take note, however: 
The curse of Caine may never be lifted, nor alleviated, by the gifts of 
demons. The subject may never use this Discipline to overcome the need 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


for blood, the vulnerability to sunlight or the clan’s sensitivity to acts of 
Faith. All Boons must be approved by the Storyteller. 
MASTER DAIMOINON 
Summon the Herald of Topheth 
Name them djinn or daemon, angel or efreet, the spirits of the outer 
darkness come only to those with the strength to compel them. Those 
Baali whose faith and wisdom have progressed as far as this power may part 
the curtain between worlds long enough to allow something of the other 
side through. 
T o  even begin this ritual, the Baali must first make a blood 
sacrifice (no less than three Traits worth) and spend one permanent 
point of Willpower. The creature summoned will appear shortly 
after. At the Storyteller’s discretion, a Demon who has strayed from 
his faith may be required to engage the Herald in a Mental Test 
(retest with Occult) or become the vessel for this spirit. Regardless, 
the spirit comes and though none will ever be identical, all are at 
least as capable as the following statistics would indicate: Attribute 
Traits 10/7/3, six Willpower Traits, seven Ability Traits, 10 Disci- 
pline Traits, no less than Intermediate Fortitude and the ability to 
regenerate at least one health level every other turn. The spirit 
remains until its task is completed or the sun rises three times, 
whichever comes first. 
AS C E  N D A N T  DAI 
M o I N o N 
Contagion 
So powerful is the Baali’s faith at this level, she becomes a focus for 
the divisive energies of her god, bleeding dissension and discord into the 
hearts and minds of all those in her vicinity. The mere presence of the 
Demon sends businesses spiraling into ruin, marriages dissolving in 
bitter divorce, and lifelong friendships descending into bloody hatred. 
As hope dies, Baal grows ever stronger until entire towns fall under the 
sway of Those-Who-Wait. 
To use this power, the Baali first spends a number of Willpower 
Traits in accordance with the breadth of the disruption he wishes to 
instigate. With one Willpower, the Demon may affect those in her 
immediate vicinity. Two Willpower allow him to reach a small apart- 
ment complex or office building. Three traits stretches his reach over a 
city block; four, an entire neighborhood, stadium or sports arena. With 
the expenditure of five Willpower Traits, the Baali may touch a entire 
city (megalopoli like New York, London or Tokyo may require six 
Willpower at Storyteller discretion). Each Willpower Trait spent takes 
a full day and night to take effect. 
Next, the Baali spends Mental Traits to determine the degree of 
chaos she inflicts. Every two Traits spent in this way increases the 
intensity one step as shown on the table below. As with everything, it’s 
easier to start a fire with oil than with water. So it is with Contagion. At 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the Storyteller’s discretion, naturally occurring aggravating factors may 
reduce the number of Traits necessary by one, or even several, steps. For 
example, it would be far easier to incite murderous riots at the peak of 
a hot spell just after a questionable police shooting than on the first 
sunny day in May. 
Kindred schooled in the arts of Ausgex (Spirit’s Touch or better) may 
detect the source of this disturbance with a successful Mental Challenge 
against the Baali. Any detection will be vague at best, revealing only the fact 
that something is causing the unease in the area. 
M BTH u s E LAH DAIM 
o I N O  N 
Call the Great Beast 
This Discipline is always known to one of the children of Baal and only 
one. The eldest among them, like unto a god itself, bears this gift alone, for 
it must be able to match what arrives. Never in the history of the world has 
this power been used successfully, but many are the tales of warning that tell 
of those that tried. 
To say the least, the ritual to invoke this power is exacting. Nothing but 
vague sketches of the requirements exist, the most illuminating tomes 
speaking of scores of sacrifices and months of ritual - 
only the Eldest knows 
for certain. And should the rite stray from the prescribed path in any 
particular, the consequences promised are dire indeed, even for one great 
enough to make the attempt. 
Should the ritual succeed, though, the final act is simple enough. The 
priest must expend the whole of her Willpower and hurl her very soul at the 
barrier between this world and Those-Who-Wait. As her very essence is 
extinguished, her body becomes a vessel for the terror Beyond, granting what 
was never meant for flesh a foothold on this world. Thus, they would say if any 
remained, ended the world. 
NECROMANCY 
VITREOUS 
PATH 
More a complement to more common necromantic powers than 
a power in and of itself, Vitreous Path Necromancy is practiced almost 
solely by its Nagaraja creators. Steeped in the entropic energies of 
the Underworld, energies even the most talented and experienced 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


necromancers hesitate to wield, the Flesh Eaters’ were afforded 
considerable opportunity to study Oblivion and the power that drives 
it. The Vitreous Path is the result of their efforts, its secrets guarded 
jealously, and with good reason - 
any who pursue mastery over death 
and restless souls would give near anything to acquire even the basest 
primer of Vitreous Path lore. 
As do most Necromancers, Nagaraja begin their studies with the 
Sepulchre Path. The Vitreous Path follows soon after. Even the least 
talented of the Flesh Eaters, armed with knowledge of the Vitreous 
Path, can be a formidable force. Indeed, this last precious lore may well 
be the secret to the Nagaraja’s survival, if they can just keep it from the 
sort of creature that would risk a great deal to learn it, such as the 
Harbingers of Skulls. 
This Discipline retests with the Occult Ability, although the Storyteller 
may allow the more specialized Wraith Lore to be used instead. 
BASIC VITREOUS 
PATH 
NECROMANCY 
Eyes of the Dead 
Ghosts, or wraiths, are born into the Underworld with certain gifts 
stemming from the nature of their new existence. Use of Eyes of the Dead 
allows the necromancer to usurp one of these gifts, Deathsight, from a 
nearby wraith and use it herself. There must be at least one wraith in the 
vicinity as the necromancer actually sees through the wraith’s eyes for 
the duration of this power. For the unschooled, it can be disorienting 
trying to sort through the strange auras visible to the dead, not to 
mention the distraction of literally seeing the world from another (or 
several) person’s point of view. 
To invoke Eyes of the Dead, the necromancer must spend a Mental 
Trait. She may then attempt to view her subject whether it be in the 
Shadowlands or the living world. By using this power, the necromancer 
may determine the general health of the subject, including any injuries, 
illnesses or disease. The likelihood of imminent death can be deter- 
mined, and even such things as curses and hostile enchantment may be 
P- 
I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


discerned. The Storyteller may decide that particularly subtle readings 
require a Static Mental Challenge (retest with Occult) to decipher the 
death energies’ meaning. 
Eyes of the Dead lasts for one scene or one hour, whichever ends 
first, though the necromancer may decide to return to his own percep- 
tions at any time. 
Hour of Death 
As his mastery over the energies of Oblivion increases, the necro- 
mancer gains the ability to peceive death energies in the auras of those 
around him. Like Eyes of the Dead, this power grants the necromancer use 
of the Deathsight. Unlike Eyes of the Dead, however, Hour of Death 
actually grants the user Deathsight of his own without need of borrowing 
the eyes of a wraith. HOW of Death also allows for much greater detail in 
readings. With it, the necromancer may determine just how far his 
subject is from death, how soon death is likely to occur and what the 
cause of death is most likely to be. In addition, fluctuations of death 
energies may be interpreted to reveal the subject’s feelings toward others 
when first meeting them. 
T o  exercise this ability, the necromancer must first spend a single 
Mental Trait, empowering himself with Eyes of the Dead for one scene 
or one hour, whichever is shorter. To make a reading, the necromancer 
performs a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty designated by 
the Storyteller in accordance with the depth of knowledge desired. A 
one-Trait challenge might reveal the subject’s probable death within 
several weeks to a month. Three Traits may reveal time of death to 
within a few days along with impressions of the cause of death (ghostly 
wounds or withering organs), while five Traits may give the time of 
death to within an hour, vicinity within a few blocks, and strong 
impressions of the cause of death. 
This Discipline may only be used on one target at a time. Targets viewed 
beyond the first require successive uses of the power. 
I NTE R M  E D IATE VITRE 
o u s PAT 
H NECROMANCY 
Soul Judgement 
It seems the Kindred are not the only creatures that struggle nightly with 
a dark side. Wraiths, too, wrestle with the passions of a baleful reflection lying 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


just below the surface of their psyches. Though more urbane than the 
ravening Beast, a wraith‘s Shadow is no less ruthless or destructive. Knowing 
which persona is in command at any given time can be an invaluable boon to 
a necromancer looking to strike a deal. 
By spending a Willpower Trait and defeating the wraith in a 
Mental Challenge, the necromancer may discern which personality is 
ascendant at any particular moment as well as which personality 
typically holds dominance. Wraiths controlled by their Shadows are 
called Spectres and are dealt with at the necromancer’s peril. Those 
dominated by their higher selves, however, are often prime pickings. 
The wise vampire can reap great returns playing one personality 
against the other, taking gains from each as the Psyche is often 
unaware of the dealings of his Shadow. And while the Shadow is not 
similarly unaware of its Psyche’s affairs, it is often more than willing to 
cooperate to the Psyche’s detriment. 
Breath of Thanatos 
This power marks a significant step on the road to a necromancer’s 
mastery over the energies of Oblivion. With it, the wielder may actually 
expel entropic energies from his body in a baleful mist. This mist, 
invisible to any not particularly attuned to entropic manifestations, acts 
as a siren call to any Spectres in the vicinity, drawing them to the 
infected area in droves. This foul haze can be spread over an area or 
focused into an object or person. When dispersed into the air, this foul 
mist will summon Spectres to the area, but does not offer any means to 
control them when they arrive. Necromancers who instigate such a 
gathering without knowledge of other Necromancy paths sufficient to 
sway the tide do so at their own risk and are just as likely to be a target 
as anyone else in the vicinity. Objects or people infused with this power 
bear a lingering malaise of the spirit and inspire unease in those not 
accustomed to the touch of death. 
The necromancer need only spend one Blood Trait, one Will- 
power Trait and succeed in a Simple Test to manifest the Breath of 
Thanatos. If dispersed over an area for the purposes of summoning 
Spectres, the radius covered is one-quarter mile plus one-quarter 
mile for each additional Blood Trait spent and is always centered on 
the necromancer. Again, the mist grants the user no authority over 
those who respond; other powers must be used to gain control of the 
approaching spirits. In any case, the cloud of fog lasts for no more 
than a scene. If concentrated in an item or person, the wielder must 
touch the target or, if used at range, defeat her in a Physical Chal- 
lenge (retest with Occult). If the necromancer is successful, the target 
suffers a single aggravated wound - 
often manifesting as disease, 
decay or rot - 
as she is infused with the death fog and filled with 
entropic energies. The infusion will persist until sunrise or sunset, 
whichever comes first. For the duration of the infection, the victim 
will be two Traits down on all social interactions with those unfamil- 
iar with the touch of death - 
werewolves, faeries, certain mages and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


most normal humans. In addition, to those with senses tuned to 
detect such things, the victim will appear as tainted by the entropic 
energies that fill her. Most will mark the victim as a threat, and some 
(werewolves in particular) will regard her as worthy of immediate 
attack. Those already infected with the Breath of Thanatos cannot be 
infected a second time until the first has worn off. 
Failure in the Simple Test means the necromancer has failed to 
expel the negative energies, instead incorporating them into his own 
body. After the first failure, certain minor nuisances are his to endure 
- 
the attentions of a particularly mischievous Spectre or a short- 
lived Aura of Corruption as per the Flaw. Subsequent, consecutive 
failures will inflict effects equivalent to those he sought to turn on 
his victim in all particulars, each successive failure increasing the 
effects’ intensity. 
Soul Feasting 
ADVANCED 
VITREOUS 
PATH 
NECROMANCY 
At this level, the necromancer has gained as comprehensive a 
mastery over the energy of Oblivion as anything not truly of the Under- 
world can. Now her power has grown to such heights that she can actually 
use the essence of the Dead to power her gifts. Whether absorbing power 
from a locale rich in such energies or feeding directly from the dead, the 
necromancer may convert the essence of Oblivion into a crude fuel, if not 
actual sustenance. 
Only places recently touched by death hold sufficient energy to be 
harvested using this Discipline. Whether the site of a recent murder or 
an ancient burial ground with generations of the dead buried within it, 
the place must have been touched by death recently or in such volume 
as to leave a retrievable surplus. Depending on the source, a vampire 
may draw the equivalent of one to four Blood Traits of energy, as 
determined by the Storyteller, in a single night. Doing so eliminates all 
benefits that might otherwise apply to the use of Necromancy or ghostly 
abilities in such a place as the energy that facilitates such things is 
consumed. In the case of cemeteries and the like, these energies will 
replenish themselves within a few days. For the scene of a murder or a 
fatal accident, however, it may well take another death before more 
energy can be harvested in that place. 
A vampire with knowledge of this Discipline is not restricted to 
gathering ambient energy alone, though. She may also feed directly 
from wraiths, robbing the hapless ghosts of their vital essence to fuel 
her vampiric powers. To do so, the necromancer must attack the wraith 
as though she were feeding normally. Upon doing so, the vampire 
enters a sort of half-state wherein she inhabits both the Underworld 
and the lands of the living. During this time, the vampire is vulnerable 
to any of a wraith’s attacks, even those that would not normally affect 
the material world. The wraith must defeat her assailant in a Will- 
power Challenge before attempting any action and is considered 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


immobilized and unable to escape until doing so. Wraiths all have the 
equivalent of 10 Blood Traits in an “Entropy” pool. Each Entropy Trait 
drained renders the wraith less and less substantial until it finally 
dissolves into nothing as the last shred of its spirit is drained away. This 
power may be used in conjunction with Ash Path Necromancy, allowing 
the vampire to gain power (though not sustenance) from wraiths as she 
travels the Shadowlands. 
Wraiths drained in this way are completely destroyed. They do not fall 
into the Labyrinth or suffer a Harrowing. They are utterly and irrevocably 
destroyed. Energy gained in this fashion can be used only to fuel Disciplines. 
It is ineffective for any physical task in which Blood Traits are normally spent, 
such as healing or increasing Attributes. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, subsequent and consecutive failures in 
implementing this Discipline may result in the vampire becoming trapped 
between the two worlds for a short time, thus being vulnerable to attack from 
either side for the duration of her entanglement. 
TEMPORIS 
Once touted as certain proof of the True Brujah’s claim to sole 
descent from the legitimate founder of their clan, Temporis has become 
in these late nights less a badge of honor and more the last bastion of 
survival for the true blood of Brujah. As with their former allies and 
associates the Nagaraja, many Elois were destroyed as Enoch fell and 
with them the greatest of those ever to wield Temporis. Of the handful 
that remain, only a fraction know more than a smattering of the 
Discipline. The highest arts may well be lost forever with the passing of 
their eldest, and what is left is hardly better than folklore and rumor. 
Even the imperturbable Elois are stirred to rage at the slightest whisper 
that one not of the blood seeks the secret of Temporis. They do not part 
with it - 
they must not, they will not. Those that claim to have stolen 
the secret rarely live long enough to enjoy it as the cold vengeance of a 
desperate bloodline is borne out against them with cruel expedience. To 
the Elois, it’s academic. No better way, they say, to make an enemy than 
to put a knife in the hands of a friend. 
At the moment of the Embrace, all of Caine’s childer are frozen in time, 
their flesh made immutable and unchanging, their bodies suspended pre- 
cariously on the cusp of life and death. It is this selective stasis that is the 
source of all the power of Tempon’s. Even the most trivial exercise in power 
is like doing a soft-shoe on the brink of oblivion. Each time she wields 
Temporis, an Elois takes her immortality in her hands. Failure in the use of 
any Temporis power from the Advanced level on up inflicts an aggravated 
wound for each consecutive failure after the first. This count resets as soon 
as the vampire succeeds in one use of Temporis, allowing her two failures 
before taking damage again. If the sun rises before she succeeds in using 
Temporis, the count is also reset. 
Because of the nature of Temporis (each use is like stopping your own 
heart so you can use the electricity to jump-start your car) and because 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Fortitude is just another extension of the very same power, wounds 
gained from one cannot be resisted or reduced by the other. Powers that 
reduce wound penalties after the wound has been inflicted (Endurance, 
for instance) however, are still effective. Thus, Resilience and Resistance 
are ineffective against wounds garnered due to Temporis failures. In the 
case of Aegis, if the killing wound is caused by a Temporis failure AND 
it is the only wound taken in the round, Aegis cannot be used to negate 
the damage and the character dies. If wounds other than those gained 
from Temporis failures are taken in the same round before death, Aegis can 
be used to negate all damage other than that gained from Temporis 
thereby letting the vampire live to fight again (at least for another 
round, anyway). 
By its very nature, the use of Temporis is profoundly linked to the 
hardiness of the wielder. For that reason, all Traits bid in challenges to 
invoke the powers of Temporis must be Stamina-related. In rare cases, the 
Storyteller may allow the use of non-Stamina-related Traits, but this is 
not suggested. In the case of over-bidding, only the total of the wielder’s 
Stamina Traits may be bid except in those rare cases mentioned above, at 
the Storyteller’s discretion. 
This power retests using the Occult Ability. 
B A S I C  TEMPORIS 
Time Attunement 
The first step toward controlling time is learning to perceive it. 
If time is a river, Time Attunement is the equivalent of putting a hand 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


in the water. In addition to granting an extremely accurate time 
sense (allowing him to keep track of the exact time before the next 
sunset, down to the second, among other things), this level of 
Temporis also gifts the vampire with a unique sensitivity to distur- 
bances in the flow of time around him. Whether caused by another of 
the Elois, a mortal magician or something even less common, the 
vampire may sense the disturbance by succeeding in a Simple Test. 
The range of this sensitivity is wholly dependent on the intensity of 
the disturbance - minor powers (Basic and Intermediate) can be 
sensed up to a mile away. Advanced and Master-level powers can be 
perceived from as far as 10 miles away, and use of even more potent 
abilities can be detected from a hundred to as far as a thousand miles 
away. Also, any attempt to alter the vampire’s internal clock must 
first succeed in a Static Mental Challenge at a difficulty of the 
target’s level of Temporis, in Traits. (This is only true of powers 
intended to change the character’s perception of time. Abilities that 
speed or slow the character’s body through time affect the character 
as it would any other.) 
Time Attunement also allows its practitioners to detect Celerity 
when used in their immediate vicinity. By succeeding in a Static 
Mental Challenge with a difficulty equal to seven minus the level of 
the power being detected, the character may sense the use of Celerity 
in the round it’s activated up to 10 yards for each level of Temporis the 
character possesses. 
Time Attunement is always in effect. Characters possessing it can always 
tell the exact amount of time that has passed between two events, to the 
second. When given an amount of time, a practitioner of Temporis can count 
it down as precisely as any clock known to man. Those using Time Attunement 
can always tell the hour exactly, night or day. 
Internal Recursion 
With a deft flex of his temporal power, the vampire who’s 
mastered Internal Recursion can knit his victim into a loop of time, 
forcing the target to relive some small, simple segment of life over 
and over again. Only the victim’s mind is actually affected, body and 
surroundings chug on through normal time immobilized for lack of 
intelligent motivation. 
To initiate the Internal Recursion, the vampire spends a Blood 
Point and engages the target in a Social Challenge. If successful, the 
target’s mind is trapped in a looping replay of some harmless, common- 
place event. Unless the wielder is capable of invasive psychic probing, 
the event to be replayed must have been physically witnessed by the 
wielder (and likely will have occurred only shortly before the power 
was activated). As described above, the event to be relived must be 
relatively uneventful or commonplace and must require no interaction 
on the part of the victim. Thus, a patrol of familiar, empty corridors 
would be a viable subject for replay while a conversation (no matter 
how banal or boring) would not. Some of the less humane members of 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the Kindred population may be tempted to inflict painful or horrific 
recursions on unwitting victims. This simply will not work as the 
emotional placidity required of the event and target is destroyed by the 
intensity of such a situation. 
Once snared in the Internal Recursion, the victim remains motion- 
less and insensible for one minute. Each Blood Trait spent by the 
wielder after the first will extend this duration by 10 minutes. The 
victim will be totally unaware of his surroundings and incapable of 
taking action for the full duration unless disturbed in some way. 
Anything causing loss of health levels, even if the victim feels no pain, 
will end the recursion and bring him to his senses. Quiet speech will 
not rouse the target, but a shout or gunshot, or even a gentle nudge, 
will break the trance. 
I N T E R M E D I AT E TE 
M p o R I s 
Lapse 
A t  this level, the vampire’s mastery over time has progressed far 
enough that she may physically alter a subject’s passage through 
time, slowing her target’s progress by half for a brief moment. Just the 
feeling of being afflicted by this power can be unsettling to fragile 
minds as the world rushes past at twice speed, leaving the victim 
straining to keep up. 
To invoke Lapse, the vampire first spends two Blood Traits and 
engages in a Static Physical Challenge with a difficulty equal to the 
target’s Willpower. Each trait successfully risked in this challenge 
enforces Lapse for one round in combat. In non-combat situations, 
the duration is one minute per Trait successfully risked. Successive 
uses of Lapse are cumulative and extend the duration of the effect 
appropriately. Lapse takes effect in the round immediately following 
successful application. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Those under the sway of Lapse must bid twice the usual Traits in any 
challenge involving speed of motion or thought. Thus, a Lapsed character 
must bid at least two Traits to hit an opponent in combat, though a Physical 
Challenge made to lift a heavy object would be unaffected. Challenges 
intended to reflect quick thinking (as determined by the Storyteller) are 
similarly affected. 
Characters using Celerity for additional actions may sacrifice one 
half of their actions (round down) to eliminate the penalty for all 
remaining actions. Thus, a character with five total actions in a turn 
may sacrifice two of those actions to eliminate the penalty in the 
remaining three or take five actions and bid at least twice the usual 
number of Traits for each. 
This power in no way affects the damage inflicted by attacks. Bullets and 
arrows, though slowed, retain the full force of their impact. 
Subjective Suspension 
At this stage in her development, the vampire may actually 
remove inanimate objects from the flow of time, suspending them for 
a little while as the rest of the world is carried past in the current. As 
with Lapse, the benefits of this power are not restricted to combat 
alone. Subjective suspension could be used to halt a falling object in 
its descent, suspend a sudden conflagration long enough for a hasty 
escape, or preserve a fragile artifact from decay. When Subjective 
Suspension is activated, all processes, whether mechanical, electrical 
or chemical, are frozen for the duration of the effect. Bullets hang 
motionless in mid-air; fires appear as no more than charred logs, falling 
objects freeze in mid-tumble. 
To invoke Subjective Suspension, the vampire must first be able to 
perceive it. In most cases this is automatic, with particularly difficult 
observations requiring a Static Mental Test at a difficulty determined by 
the Storyteller. For objects moving too quickly to be seen by mortal eyes, 
some means of enhancing the senses beyond mortal means is necessary. 
Most often, the Auspex power of Heightened Senses is sufficient, though 
the Storyteller may still require a successful Mental challenge to make 
best use of the power. Once the object is perceived, the vampire must 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


spend two Blood Traits and succeed in a Static Physical Challenge 
(retest with Occult). Each Physical Trait spent increases the duration of 
the Suspension as indicated on the table below. Suspension of an object 
includes the suspension of all its energy and any chemical processes 
occurring within it. Thus, a suspended bullet has no kinetic energy with 
regards to the world around it, chemical reactions are held in stasis, and 
fires cease to emit heat, light or smoke until such time as the power’s 
duration expires. At the end of Subjective Suspension’s duration, all 
processes, energies and reactions resume activity as though no time had 
passed. Fires roar to life, chemical reactions run their course, and objects 
in motion continue on their original trajectory at the speed they had 
originally been traveling. 
Subjective Suspension may never be used on an object larger than the 
vampire herself and cannot be used to suspend living or unliving thing more 
complex than a dog. 
A D v A N c E D TE 
M p o R I s 
Clotho’s Gift 
By speeding the flow of time through himself, the vampire gains 
the ability to perform acts of speed normally reserved to uses of 
Celerity. Unlike Celerity, Clotho’s Gift does not simply enhance the 
user’s physical speed and reactions but accelerates him through time, 
thus allowing the use of Disciplines normally requiring full conscious 
thought to invoke. There is a price to pay, however, as using vampiric 
powers while Clotho’s Gift is in effect taxes the force that maintains 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the vampire’s immortality to its limits and beyond. Vampires choos- 
ing to exercise other Disciplines while under the influence of this 
power find their bodies withering with the strain as the force that 
maintains them is consumed by their exertions. True Brujah tell their 
childer horror stories of unwise vampires made ash-heaps by acceler- 
ated use of Dominate. 
To use Clotho’s Gift, the vampire spends three Blood Traits and must 
succeed in a Static Physical Challenge (retest with Occult). For a 
number of turns equal to his levels in Temporis divided by two (round 
down), the vampire gains one extra action for each trait successfully 
risked in the Physical Challenge. These actions may be used in any way 
the player wishes, including the use of Disciplines normally forbidden 
from multiple uses per turn (Dominate and Thaumaturgy, for instance). 
As said before, however, there is a price. Each use of a Discipline within 
the duration of Clotho’s Gift inflicts one health level of unsoakable 
lethal damage on the vampire. 
Uses of accelerated powers occur at normal speed, relative to the victim. 
Victims of Dominate hear commands as if spoken at normal speed and 
Temporis in no way eliminates the need for eye contact. 
Use of lesser Temporis powers is also permitted under the same 
strictures as those of other Disciplines as listed above. Greater powers 
(Elder-level and greater), however, cause the immediate destruction of 
the vampire using them. Similarly, any vampire attempting multiple use 
of Clotho’s Gift immediately collapses in a pile of ash, the force of his 
unlife instantly dispersed. 
E L D E R  
TEMPORIS 
Kiss of Lachesis 
At this stage, the vampire may affect the toll of time on physical 
objects and individuals. Through his mastery of Temporis, the vampire 
may age a subject decades in a few scarce moments. With some greater 
sacrifice, the vampire may draw out the effects of time from another into 
himself, thus reducing the subject’s physical age. This power does not 
change anything that has gone before. The subject’s experiences and 
memories remain the same, only the effects of time on her physical form 
are affected. 
To age a target, the vampire must concentrate and touch his 
target, spending two Blood Traits and engaging the subject in a 
challenge using the wielder’s Social Traits versus the victim’s 
Physical Traits (retest with Occult). Each Trait successfully risked 
moves the result one step down on the chart below. The chart does 
not dictate absolute results, but rather sets an upper limit for the use 
of the power. The user of Kiss of Lachesis may age the target a 
number of years up to and including that listed as his result, though 
is not forced to do so. The actual effects of this aging are left to the 
Storyteller, but there are very few mortals who could last very long 
in a body over a century old. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The system is identical for purposes of reducing the age of one’s 
target, but the wielder must spend a Physical Trait, in addition to 
risking the appropriate number of traits to achieve the desired 
effect. Also, for each Trait risked, the vampire suffers one lethal 
wound level. These wounds can be healed normally, but may not be 
resisted, transferred or removed in any other way. Again, the effect 
level indicated on the table is an upper limit, not an absolute result. 
The vampire may choose not to enforce the full potential of his 
power and reduce the total effect by any amount he wishes. This 
power may not regress any victim past the point at which it assumed 
its current form. Adult humans may not be regressed past the point 
of full maturity; mortals that have not yet reached maturity may not 
be regressed past the point of birth. Inanimate objects may not be 
regressed past the point of construction. A Kindred’s lowest regres- 
sion is his Embrace. 
Changes in age affect only the physical form - 
mystical properties 
and mental faculties are not affected. Thus, while an elder vampire’s 
body may be returned to a neonate’s age, she does not lose the benefit 
of her centuries of immortality -- all Disciplines, Attributes and 
Abilities remain the same. Aging the same vampire will, again, not 
change those capabilities built up through experience, but any signs of 
diablerie may fade and the dietary peculiarities of extreme age may 
begin to show themselves. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


M A S T E R  TEMponrs 
Hall of Hades’ Court 
With this degree of mastery, the vampire’s powers have grown so great 
that she is no longer restricted to affecting a single creature or object. 
With the use of Hall of Hades’ Court, the wielder may speed or slow the 
flow of time through an enclosed area and all those within it. Usually this 
is used for social or defensive purposes, though not exclusively. The 
vampire may, at her discretion, stretch time so that what passes as one 
night outside the affected area seems like days within it. Or, she may 
compress time in an area, spending a few drowsy moments in her haven 
while an entire day races by outside. 
The player must spend a single BloodTrait per hour of normal time that 
this power will affect. She must then succeed in a Static Physical Challenge 
(retest with Occult). For each Trait successfully risked in this challenge, the 
vampire may move her effect level one step down on the table below. Hall 
of Hades’ Court affects the environs and occupants of a single enclosed 
structure no larger than a high school gymnasium. 
AS 
c s N D A N T Ts M p o R I s 
Clio’s Kiss 
Those who reach this level of mastery may actually summon history 
forward to the present night and in some cases bring people or objects 
permanently into the present. Those True Brujah who have reached this 
height often use Clio’s Kiss to bring past events of the past forward so they 
might be studied “as-they-happened.” Others summon aid or long-lost 
artifacts. No less than four attempts to summon Brujah himself have been 
made, each ending in horrifying failure. None have ever attempted to 
summon Caine with Clio’s Kiss. Perhaps it’s a testament to the wisdom of the 
True Brujah that none have ever tried. 
To invoke Clio’s Kiss, the vampire must first spend one-half 
current blood traits, rounded up, and succeed in a Static Physical 
Challenge, bidding at least two Traits. The number of Traits success- 
fully risked determines how far into the past the vampire may reach, as 
shown on the table. 
Successful use of Clio’s Kiss summons the desired scene to the 
present, replacing the existing “real” situation and environment. All 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
individuals in the area of effect - 
any room as large or smaller than a 
ballroom or an outdoor area of similar size as determined by the 
Storyteller - 
are affected. Only the wielder may choose to interact 
with the scene; all others are relegated to insubstantial observation 
unless they possess Time Attunement. They may, however, affect each 
other normally. 
A vampire using Clio’s Kiss to permanently summon an item or 
person from the past must spend one permanent Willpower Trait. The 
current use of Clio’s Kiss ends and leaves the summoned person or item 
in the present. Persons so summoned are undoubtedly disoriented, 
confused and will require considerable explanation and education in 
the nights to come. 
Uses of Clio’s Kiss may never alter history in any meaningful way. 
Individuals or items whose disappearance would change the course of 
history simply cannot be summoned as the tremendous inertia of time 
is just too great for any vampire to overcome. Only those individuals 
whose footprint on the past is so slight that their presence will not be 
missed can be summoned permanently. As well, the actions of the 
vampire on a scene summoned from the past will be immediately 
undone when use of this power ends. The course of history is imper- 
turbable - 
what has already been written must remain so. At all 
times, the Storyteller has the final word on what is and is not possible 
with this power. In general, no change may be made that would affect 
the course of recorded or remembered history or the present. It is 
possible to summon a historically significant person or object after 
the notable portion of their existence has passed, but only if it is 
called to the present from a time after any event that might be 
remembered in the present. For example, summoning a book that is 
believed to have been destroyed is allowable, provided it is summoned 
from a time after it was last read. If evidence of its destruction exists, 
however, it cannot be summoned. Thus, Adolph Hitler could not be 
summoned from the past, nor could the Titanic (though one of the 
crew may be summoned if no one actually witnessed his death). Also, 
a vampire may never summon the previous form of a currently 
existing item or individual. 
METHUSELAH 
TEMPORIS 
Tangle Atropos’ Hand 
A t  this level of mastery, the vampire may unravel the recent 
course of time to undo her own mistakes or preventing the actions 
of others. The elder attempting such a thing pays a high price, 
literally burning away the energies that sustain her to reverse the 
flow of time. The vampire must take different direction from her 
past course of action or watch the previous events unfold all over 
again. If she repeats her actions, so will all those affected by the 
power with exactly the same results. The vampire must actively 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


change the course of events or the use of this power will be wasted 
in replaying precisely what went o n  before. None of those affected 
by this power, except the wielder, will remember any course of 
action other than the final one. The memories of the subjects are 
reset just as time is. 
To Tangle Atropos’ Hand, the vampire must spend a permanent 
Willpower Trait, three Blood Traits, and succeed in a Static Physical 
Challenge. For each Trait successfully risked in the test, the vampire may 
rewind one turn’s worth of time. For each turn so rewound, the vampire 
suffers one aggravated health level of damage. This power may be used 
only once per scene and only affects events taking place within the user’s 
line of sight. 
If successful, the character remains where she is and does not return 
to her previous position (unless she chooses to do so). She has full 
recollection of the previous course of events as do any others in the area 
of effect who possess Time Attunement or similar aptitudes; all others lose 
all memory of those actions undone by this power. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Thaumaturgy, though considered to be a Discipline for game pur- 
poses, is not a true gift of Caine (after all, the Usurpers aren’t actually 
descended from the First). While most Thaumaturgy has its basis in the 
properties of Cainite vitae, it also has elements of what the mages call 
“static magic”: magic performed through tried and tested occult experi- 
mentation wherein the results are the same every time. In game terms, 
all non-Necromantic vampiric magic is called “Thaumaturgy,” though 
individual paths vary dramatically. 
Thaumaturgy involves two main elements: paths and rituals. Paths are 
similar to Disciplines - 
they have the same number of individual powers 
- 
except that they may be designed to achieve nearly any end while true 
Disciplines are immutable. Some paths (like those listed in Laws Of The 
Night) are so effective or traditional that they have fallen into common 
usage, but many, many more paths exist. A Tremere who creates a path that 
eventually becomes standard curriculum in other chantries is a proud 
Warlock indeed, and many elder Tremere owe their fame and station to the 
creation of powerful and innovative paths. Rituals are more of a one-shot 
effect and often require odd or expensive material components; thaumaturges 
favor them when creating an entire path would be too time-consuming or 
wasteful. Thaumaturges may also create their own rituals -a 
process 
explained more clearly in the “Rituals” section of this chapter. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


While Clan Tremere is the best-known font of blood wizardry, other 
clans have managed to learn unique forms of Thaumaturgy, notably the 
Assamites, Tzimisce and Setites. Their paths are much different from the 
Hermetic style of the Warlocks and rely on different skills to power them. The 
Assamite wizards gain their abilities through the haze of powerful narcotics; 
the koIdunic sorceries of the original Tzimisce, now pursued by fledgling 
Sabbat eager for power, are fueled by the thaumaturge’s will and knowledge 
alone; and the Setites often use the act of corruption to further their magic. 
The translation of these paths into a liveeaction setting is discussed in 
“Creating Non-Tremere Paths.” 
As a Storyteller, you have final say over what you will or won’t allow 
into your game. Thaumaturgy can be a wonderful spice to add to your 
chronicle’s menu - 
the long searches for rare components or forgotten 
tomes, the successful completion of a ritual that took years to write - 
but it can also make those characters too powerful to interact with other 
Cainites. You can always give the players more bells and whistles later, 
but once you’ve introduced something it’s extremely difficult, if not 
impossible, to take it away without engendering player resentment. 
Before handing things over on a silver platter, consider the impact it will 
have on your game; “I Win” doesn’t reflect the spirit of the game you’ve 
worked so hard for. 
C R E A T I N ~  
TRBMBRB 
PATHS 
A Tremere who wishes to create her own thaumaturgical path should 
have at least five levels of the Occult Ability and have previously mastered 
two standard paths. Once she is properly “grounded,” player and Storyteller 
need to sit down and discuss what she has in mind. Could it be accomplished 
more effectively through ritual magic? Is there a single thread tying all five 
powers together? Paths revolve around a central focus or theme, and that 
focus should be maintained throughout: It might be easy to come up with 
five completely unrelated powers, but they certainly won’t reflect the 
structure necessary to a proper path. 
One way to plan the power curve of a path is to first determine the 
maximum power you’re going to allow. This gives you a point to work down 
from as opposed to starting big and getting bigger. Once you both have 
agreed upon the Advanced power of the proposed path, you can then 
decide what the first Basic power should be. With the weakest and 
strongest powers already decided, it’s much easier to fill in the blanks with 
level-appropriate effects. Storytellers should squash “instant-kill” or “blow- 
up-the-world” powers and encourage those players who are aiming for 
game flavor over game power. Also, paths created to mimic a true 
Discipline should function as if they are at least one level below the 
equivalent of the real thing, and never rival the Advanced power: Paths 
are good, but nothing beats the original gifts of Caine. 
Paths should take a ridiculous amount of time to create and learn. A 
character might work on a path for at least six months before she is “in tune” 
with her vitae enough to learn the first power. Such work should include 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


investing vitae, possibly as much as three Blood Traits per level. After all, this 
is about releasing new properties of the blood. Created paths are one point 
above the usual expense for Thaumaturgy purchases. 
C R E A T I N ~  
NON-TREMBRE 
PATHS 
Tremere and Giovanni don’t have the monopoly on vampiric magic in 
the World of Darkness. From their rotting mansions, the Fiends’ kolduns call 
upon the elements to obey their will; in the dark chambers of Mount Alamut, 
the viziers of the Assamite clan weave smoky, kalif-induced enchantments; 
the Followers of Set perform grotesque rituals of defilement in their attempt 
to wake their god. Eventually, as a Storyteller, you may wish to incorporate 
other magical systems into your game. 
The koldunic sorcery of the Tzimisce is an ancient, mystical art that 
calls forth the elements of nature to take shape and obey the koldun’s 
will. The specific paths, or “Ways” of this spiritual magic - 
Earth, 
Wind, Fire, Water and Spirit - 
were originally taught by elder Tzimisce 
corresponding to the novice’s regional surroundings (for example, the 
Way of Wind was originally only known to koldun who lived in the 
Carpathian Mountains, the Way of Water to those who made their 
havens near bodies of water, and so on); tonight, however, young Sabbat 
who have heard rumors of these enchantments are thirsting for a taste 
of the eldritch power. 
Using glyphs, herbal mixtures and the powerful sympathetic connections 
housed in canopic jars (ornate clay vessels used to contain the organs of 
mummies), the Followers of Set usurp the power of the fertile Western Lands 
and bend it to their twisted desires. Despite the clan’s chaotic reputation, 
Setite paths are remarkably precise and deliberate in their practice. Some 
focus on the exaggeration of vices already present in their victims; others 
involve the creation of cursed amulets which blind their bearers to anything 
good or pure, making even the most wholesome influence seem hideous and 
barren. They also employ a number of rituals to invoke their god, using the 
ancient Egyptian magic of aeons past to give their more mundane pursuits a 
silent and insistent partner. 
Unlike their martial brethren, Assamite viziers regard themselves as 
above the struggles to maintain a single ethnic purity. Combining the 
magical traditions of several groups of regional sorcerers, these wizards 
work their magic through ritual intoxication, often maintaining a “herd” 
of perpetually drugged servants to feed from. Kulif (hashish watered in 
blood) provides revelations beyond human imagination, gifting the “field” 
Assamites with powerful protections or advantages even when they are 
not in the presence of the vizier. Perhaps these wizards’ most awesome 
blessing is the ability to transcend the boundaries of space, their rituals 
enabling them to make their voices heard across thousands of miles or to 
transport objects across a distance instantly. 
Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy offers an in-depth look into 
the other magics of Vampire: The Masquerade. As a Storyteller, it’s your 
privilege to decide which paths will work in your game and which won’t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and alter and adapt them as you desire. So long as overall game balance is 
kept firmly in mind, players can expand their characters’ range without 
becoming bloated powerhouses. The guidelines listed in “Creating Tremere 
Paths” can be used when considering the impact alternate paths will have 
on your game and help you balance the relative power levels. While the 
alternate paths may go by other names, for game purposes it’s easier just 
to call them Thaumaturgy. 
TREMERB 
PATHS 
Perhaps the most disputed power in all of Vampire: The Masquer- 
ade, Thaumaturgy makes the Warlocks both mighty and mistrusted as 
(given enough time) Clan Tremere can accomplish just about anything. 
This kind of power has its price, however. It’s worth noting that while 
many consider the Tremere advantage unbalancing in a live-action 
game, the magnitude of their influence is, and must be, balanced by the 
rigidity of their hierarchy and the vigilance with which they guard their 
secrets. Before you instantly outlaw certain paths or rituals because you 
feel they are overpowered, it’s useful to consider how you can make the 
consequences of abusing their advantage too high a price for the 
Warlock to pay. Remember, the Tremere guard their secrets jealously 
and do not take kindly to their members “showing off” - 
such frivolous 
or ostentatious use results in too much attention for the Warlocks’ taste, 
and Tremere who flaunt their gifts are always stifled quickly (and 
forcibly) by their superiors. Treat Thaumaturgy as you would a powerful 
but fickle firearm: If you use it too many times in the wrong way, you just 
might blow your own head off. 
Many of the paths listed here are extremely rare, some of them 
unknown to all but the most elder or worldly Warlock. A first-circle 
apprentice who demands to know Biothaumaturgy can legitimately be 
giggled at; a fourth-circle regent who meets a thyrsus, on the other hand, 
might be given the opportunity to learn The Vine of Dionysus. Storytellers 
should use common sense when determining if a character may know 
about and learn any of the following paths. Also note that inquiring about 
a few of these paths (such as Path of the Blood’s Curse) will raise a few stern 
eyebrows among the higher-ups; they might even feel it necessary to pay 
the curious Warlock a visit to ensure that their colleague isn’t entertain- 
ing any “ideas”. . . . 
Unless otherwise noted, powers require a Blood Trait to activate and a 
full action to use. 
To T O U C H O R  
NOT To T O U C H ?  
As outlined in “The Rules Thou Shalt Never Break,” players are 
not permitted to touch one another in the course of roleplaying. 
However, some powers of Thaumaturgy require nothing but a light 
touch to enact. It can be difficult, as a Storyteller, to find the right 
balance between player comfort and character realism, especially 
when sometimes it could be just as simple as a character accepting a 
handshake from the thaumaturge. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Tremere have their reputation for being sneaky bastards for a 
reason, and taking away a goodly portion of their thaumaturgical 
advantage isn’t necessary. A good rule of thumb in dealing with this 
sticky situation is that the character must willingly have accepted 
the thaumaturge’s touch. A player who hides behind a corner and 
pounces on other players as they walk by not only looks ridiculous but 
is also breaking the rules; on the other hand, a player who extends her 
hand and beams a disarming smile is not. Socially Challenging 
someone into a passionate embrace is acceptable (after all, one of the 
greatest betrayals was enacted with a simple kiss). A player who 
refuses to accept any challenge out of fear of Thaumaturgy is 
metagaming. Encourage your thaumaturges to be creative in their in- 
character touching and don’t hesitate to require a proper Physical 
Challenge if you are in doubt. 
Powers that work by touch require skin contact. 
ALCHEMY 
A seminal path, Alchemy has its basis in the Hermetic practices of 
the earliest Tremere and is mostly overlooked by thaumaturges of the 
20th century. With tonight’s technology at their disposal, many Tremere 
disdain this path as inefficient and outmoded; however, a handful of 
elders still teach this path as a reminder of the principles modern blood 
magic is built on. 
Alchemy deals with Hermetic “ideals,” not realistic interpretations 
of such, so while it is possible for a thaumaturge to turn lead into gold, 
she cannot turn lead blocks into a pile of gold coins or melt the 
resulting gold down to make something else; all the thaumaturge can 
do is work with raw elements in their “natural” states. Anyone at- 
tempting to use Alchemy must first have detailed knowledge of the 
elements involved (requiring at least two levels of Science or Science: 
Chemistry) and must work in a controlled environment. Alchemy is a 
highly exacting process that cannot be realistically accomplished 
outside of a laboratory-type setting. The path’s effects make no dis- 
tinction between natural or man-made elements; it will affect helium 
or Holmesian equally. 
The level of Alchemy the Tremere possesses determines how greatly he 
may alter a given element; note that before the thaumaturge may alter a 
substance, he must first be aware of every element in the compound, and 
Alchemy does not work on animate ideals (no attempting to change a vampire 
into salt element by element). Alchemy takes one hour per level to work, at 
the end of which the Tremere must succeed in a Static Mental Challenge 
(with the difficulty being at the Storyteller’s discretion). The path of Alchemy 
retests with the Science Ability. 
B A S I C  
ALCHEMY 
Commuta 
Changes in state - 
solid to liquid, liquid to gas, etc. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Conforma 
Simple changes in form - 
water to separate into amorphous clouds of 
hydrogen and oxygen, liquid to a desired shape of solid (note that it will 
remain the same element), etc. 
I NTE R M  E D I A T E  ALCHEMY 
Scinde 
Complex changes to form - 
water into breathable oxygen and loose 
Mutate 
Minor shifts in composition, such as changing a given element into 
another (up to five greater or five less than its original place on the Periodic 
Table of Elements). 
hydrogen, compounds into their separate elements, etc. 
ADVANCED 
ALCHEMY 
Transmutate 
Radical shifts in composition - 
any element can be transformed into any 
other (note that the state and form of the transmuted element will become 
that of the new element’s “natural” composition). 
B I O T H A U M A T U R ~ Y  
This macabre path, supposedly crafted by Sabbat thaumaturges, 
deals with flesh, whether it’s living, dead or somewhere in between. 
Biothaumaturges are the proverbial “Dr. Frankensteins,” and are 
regarded with a mixture of curiosity and revulsion - 
this path has 
more to do with vivisection than mysticism and is a radical depar- 
ture from the clan’s Hermetic roots. Though not forbidden, 
Biothaumaturgy is generally only pursued by the strong of stomach or 
the slightly unhinged ... . 
Biothaurnaturgy does not require any Blood Traits to be spent; 
instead, it has other costs that are listed under the individual powers. 
Additionally, while the biothaumaturge need not have a state-of-the- 
art facility, she must have some kind of laboratory in which to perform 
her tasks. The Tremere must have at least three levels of Science and one 
Medicine Ability in order to begin this path, and may retest it with the 
Science Ability. 
BAS I c BI O T H A U M A T U  R
~
Y
 
Thaumaturgical Forensics 
By taking a tissue sample back to her laboratory, and succeeding in 
a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty at Storyteller discretion), a 
thaumaturge may ascertain a wealth of information beyond what “nor- 
mal” forensics or genetics would yield. This information will always be 
physical in nature, such as gender, clan, generation, age, diablerie traces 
or relative health, and it is up to the Storyteller how much is gleaned 
under a given examination. Thaumaturgical Forensics may be used on 
plants, but not inanimate objects, and requires a week’s worth of study 
upon the tissue sample. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Thaumaturgical Surgery 
The thaumaturge may use her abilities to increase a body’s regenera- 
tive prowess, even those of the undead, so long as she and her target are 
in her laboratory. Once per evening, for every Mental Trait the caster 
spends (up to three), one wound level may be converted to a lesser type. 
Aggravated damage becomes lethal, lethal damage becomes bashing and 
bashing damage vanishes completely. The actual surgery takes about 10 
minutes of work per wound level reduced, the target taking time to rest 
for the remainder of the evening or session. The thaumaturge may not 
regain those Mental Traits until the next evening, even with the 
expenditure of Willpower. 
Lesser Animation 
The biothaumaturge imbues an intact, dead being with part of his 
own life essence, although at this level the power is limited to plants 
or animals the size of a dog or smaller. These creations may be given 
simple instructions to carry out, which they will do so mindlessly until 
they are destroyed. 
Creatures animated in this way are considered to have the same 
Strength- and Stamina-related Traits they had in life, although their 
Dexterity-related Traits drop by one (but never below one). For obvious 
reasons, these zombie servants are considered to have zero Mental and 
Social Traits; they are, however, immune to Dominate and Social-based 
powers as a result. The automaton’s wound levels are half of what it had 
in life, rounded up. It will immediately crumble to dust if struck by 
sunlight and suffer double damage from fire. Note that decayed, maimed 
or partially eaten corpses will be extremely ineffective as the corpse 
cannot regenerate any bits that might be missing 
If the caster succeeds in a Static Mental Challenge (the Storyteller 
may modify. this to reflect the state of decay), the carcass is successfully 
animated and may be given a basic one-sentence command any time the 
caster wishes. Animating a corpse takes at least seven days of preparation 
and experimentation, and once an order has been given, the creation may 
not be given another. 
INTERMEDIATE 
BIOTHAUMATURC~Y 
Greater Animation 
At this level, the biothaumaturge has refined the process of reanima- 
tion to the point that she can now revive the corpses of humans and larger 
animals; additionally, modifications may be made to smaller creatures 
revived with Lesser Animation by grafting and manipulating body parts 
from other creatures. 
While the larger creatures and humans follow the same rules as 
Lesser Animation for instructions, Traits, wound levels and immunities, 
the thaumaturge may now begin to creatively alter the plants and 
animals she has previously animated. Plants can be given tiny snapping 
jaws, or a rat may have grafted wings. Before any vivisection may begin, 
however, the thaumaturge must first acquire the appendages she wishes 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to graft onto his creations. Storytellers should adjust the creations’ 
Traits and damage levels accordingly. 
Animating a larger corpse will take two weeks of intense experimenta- 
tion; altering an existing Lesser Animation takes only one week. In both 
instances, the caster must first succeed in a Static Mental Challenge (diffi- 
culty at the Storyteller’s discretion). 
ADVANCED 
B I O T H A U M A T U R ~ Y  
Cognizant Construction 
The apex of biothaumaturgical prowess, the animated creations 
the thaumaturge controls may now be given back a degree of the 
mental acuity they had in life. Although they now have a number of 
Mental Traits equal to what they had in life less one (but never below 
one), they will still serve their creator faithfully. Now, however, these 
creations possess some cognitive capacity - 
animate animals gain an 
evil cunning while higher lifeforms can reason deductively and strate- 
gically. Unlike the other animations, the biothaumaturge may change 
the orders given to a Cognizant Construction at any time; it will follow 
the most recent order. 
Cognizgnt Constructions take three weeks of work after a Static Mental 
Challenge. 
THE 
EOCUSED M I N D  
Developed by a Tremere Kabbalistic scholar, this extremely rare path is 
only practiced by a select few. The serenity and dedication necessary to train 
the mind is often lacking in these chaotic nights, but those few who master 
their own thoughts become frighteningly effective opponents. 
This path retests on the Occult Ability, and thaumaturges must have at 
least seven Mental Traits to begin it. 
BASIC PATHOETHE 
EOCUSED M I N D  
Readiness 
This power grants the ability to jumpstart sluggish synapses, allowing for 
a quicker and more lucid understanding of a situation. While it is only usable 
upon the thaumaturge herself, she will be three Traits up on Mental Chal- 
lenges relating to leaps of logic, investigation, memory or reasoning. This 
power lasts from one scene to an hour. 
Centering 
By muttering soothing words to himself or another, the caster can 
influence a person’s psyche, even talking her out of frenzy. While experienc- 
ing this serenity, the target is better able to focus on tasks and problems ahead 
of her, even ignoring pain and the threat of bodily harm. Some magi in fear 
of frenzy use this on themselves. 
For the duration of the power, the target is unaffected by wound 
penalties; additionally, for every Mental Trait the thaumaturge spends (up 
to three), the target gains a Trait to defend against any attempt to evoke 
emotion and resist (or break out of) frenzy, even those which resulted from 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines. The target must be within earshot of and able to hear the caster, 
and the caster must spend at least one full turn speaking to the target. This 
power lasts for one scene or an hour. 
INTERMEDIATE 
PATHOETHE 
EOCUSED MIND 
One-Tracked Mind 
By extending her focus to another person and speaking to them 
rationally, the thaumaturge may fixate her subject upon a single action or 
thought. The target ignores any and all distractions around him, and 
simply concentrates on the idea in front of him. If cast during combat, the 
target may not perform any other actions for the remainder of the combat 
other than the one he most recently declared at the time of casting; even 
extra actions gained through Celerity are directed toward this end. As a 
bonus, the target gain an extra Trait that may be added to any challenges 
made in pursuit of his target obsession. This fixation will fade at the end 
of the combat. If cast outside a combat, the target must continue doing 
exactly what he was doing at the time of casting for one scene. In both 
cases, the target’s actions are perfectly logical to him, and he will even 
believe it was his idea. 
To fixate a subject, the thaumaturge must first succeed in a Mental 
Challenge with the target and speak with the target for one action. The target 
must be within earshot and able to hear the caster. 
Dual Thought 
This degree of mental perfection permits the thaumaturge to concen- 
trate on two completely different tasks and perform them both with equal 
acumen. By spending a temporary Willpower, the caster may now take an 
extra action during her turn so long as that action is Mental in nature, be 
it Mental-based Disciplines or the tackling of a problem. These actions 
take place simultaneously on the thaumaturge’s turn. There are no other 
benefits to this power; all actions still require any expenditures, chal- 
lenges or penalties they would have if performed separately, and no more 
blood may be spent per turn than is allowed by the thaumaturge’s 
generation. The power lasts for one scene or 10 minutes. 
ADVANCED 
PATHOETHE 
EOCUSED MIND 
Perfect Clarity 
With a burst of concentration, the thaumaturge is able to achieve a 
moment of pure thought, transcending emotion and distraction. By spending 
a temporary Willpower, the caster becomes temporarily immune to frenzy and 
Rotschreck (even through supernatural means), has a two-Trait bonus in any 
challenge, and all opponents attempting to influence or control the 
thaumaturge in any way (including with Presence or Dominate) lose all ties to 
do so. This power lasts for one combat scene, or 10 minutes. 
T H E  HEARTH PATH 
Originally a collection of rituals, this path deals with the security of a 
thaumaturge’s haven. The thaumaturge may end these enchantments at any 
time. This path retests with the Occult Ability. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BASIC HEARTH PATH 
Guest’s Herald 
When used on a door or other entryway, this power creates an 
auditory or visual effect that will alert the thaumaturge that an intruder 
has breached the portal. This signal could be anything the thaumaturge 
desires - 
a bell ringing in another room or the door slamming shut 
behind the trespasser -but 
it is the same for the duration of the power 
(although the thaumaturge can change the form the signal takes from 
casting to casting). Note that the thaumaturge must actually be in the 
haven for the alarm to be effective, and the signal must be small and 
subtle (no Uzis firing automatically at the opening, for example). This 
power lasts for 24 hours. 
Master’s Order 
By becoming mystically attuned to her haven, a thaumaturge with this 
ability instinctively knows where every one of her possessions lies in the 
haven so long as she is in it. Note that this only works on inanimate objects 
the thaumaturge owns (though objects the thaumaturge has successfully 
stolen will also show up without difficulty). It lasts for 24 hours. 
INTERMEDIATE 
HEARTH PATH 
Rhyme of Discord 
This power fuddles the minds of intruders in the haven, causing 
them to become hopelessly confused and wander in circles, no matter 
how small and plain the haven might actually be. Any intruders must 
succeed in a Mental Challenge against the caster or else be trapped 
inside the haven until the thaumaturge breaks the spell or until it wears 
off naturally. As well, any person affected by Rhyme of Discord will be 
unable to remember details of the protected haven even after he has left 
its influence until such time as he visits the haven when it is not 
enspelled. Note that while intruders affected by this power will be 
unable to effectively pursue the thaumaturge through his haven, they 
may still fight and defend themselves normally if the thaumaturge 
engages them. This power lasts for 24 hours. 
Temportal 
As master of his haven, a vampire may briefly warp the space inside it so 
that the doorways connect to each other any way he chooses. A closet door 
might suddenly open into the laboratory, or the bathroom on the third floor 
might be made an escape route into the back garden. Anyone following the 
thaumaturge through the door will end up where it should normally open to; 
clever vampires will use this to lead pursuers into an oubliette or trap. This 
power lasts until sunrise. 
ADVANCED 
HEARTH PATH 
The Cauldron’s Rede 
By imparting a primitive awareness into the haven itself, the 
thaumaturge creates a network of spies from her household furnishings. 
Anything happening within the haven (or within eyeshot outside, as the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


windows can “look” out) can be relayed to the magus by the furniture, 
ornaments, draperies or bric-a-brac. The thaumaturge must verbally ask 
questions of her belongings; anything within and around the haven is 
available for her perusal, even if the item she is questioning wasn’t 
present for the event. Havens have short “memories,” so the thaumaturge 
may only ask questions regarding events that occurred in the duration of 
that casting. In cases of extreme danger, such as fire or a pending 
ambush, the voices of the haven will actively scream out to the Kindred. 
This power lasts until sunrise. 
M A S T E R Y O ~ T H F  
MORTAL 
SHELL 
Thaumaturges practicing this path gain control over the physical 
workings of a body. While this path cannot actually animate corpses, it 
is effective against the living and undead. Unless otherwise stated, the 
powers of this path last for a number of turns equal to the number of 
Mental Traits the caster spends on the casting. This path retests with the 
Occult Ability. 
Vertigo 
With but a light touch, the thaumaturge causes a wave of dizziness and 
disorientation to overtake her target. Anyone affected by this is rendered one 
Trait down on all Physical Challenges for the remainder of the scene. This 
dizziness might also trigger appropriate effects, such as acrophobia, at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. A ready or suspicious target will probably require a 
Physical Challenge to affect. 
B A S I C  MASTERYOETHF 
MORTAL 
SHELL 
Contortion 
This power enables the thaumaturge to cause wracking spasms in his 
target. The use of this power requires a Physical Challenge to touch the 
limb he wishes to affect. A “normal” Physical Challenge will strike an arm 
or leg; if the caster wishes to affect the target’s head, he must declare this 
intention and win two Simple Challenges after succeeding in the initial 
Physical Challenge (if the two Simple Challenges are unsuccessful, the 
caster misses completely and loses the Trait bid). For each arm or leg 
warped in this way, the target not only loses the ability to use it but also 
gains the negative Physical Trait Lame. If the head is affected, the target 
suffers a complete loss of speech and is three bids down on all Social 
Challenges as his facial muscles spasm wildly. These effects will span the 
duration of one scene. 
The thaumaturge may also cast this effect upon himself to tighten his 
muscles, very effective during a bite or choke attack. This power grants the 
caster two Traits he may use during Physical Challenges if the target attempts 
to break free. 
INTERMEDIATE 
M A S T E R Y O ~ T H E  
MORTAL 
SHELL 
Seizure 
Thaumaturges using this power cause uncontrollable convulsions in 
their targets, sometimes resulting in death to mortals as they choke on their 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


own tongues. With a successful Physical Challenge, the thaumaturge causes 
her target to twist and writhe upon the ground in utter agony. In this state, the 
person so afflicted may only bid passive Physical Traits and may not initiate 
challenges, and will suffer one level of bashing damage per turn as he jerks 
around. This power lasts for one scene, and may be fatal to mortals (at the 
Storyteller’s discretion). 
Body Failure 
Those wielding this devastating power have incredible insight 
into the workings of the body - 
and how to shut them down. This 
power will kill mortals, as their autonomic nervous system simply stops 
working, and is extremely uncomfortable, if not usually lethal, to 
Kindred. With a successful Physical Challenge and the expenditure of 
a temporary Willpower, the thaumaturge causes her target to go into 
total system shock. The victim will suffer three health levels of lethal 
damage immediately, and one more every subsequent turn they are 
affected by this power (until death or torpor). During this time, mortal 
victims may only bid passive Physical Traits, may not initiate chal- 
lenges and are four Traits down in all actions. Kindred may attempt to 
soak lethal damage. 
Marionette 
A t  this level, thaumaturges truly usurp their enemies’ bodies from 
them, taking total control of their movements with their will alone. 
With the expenditure of a temporary Willpower, a successful Mental 
versus Physical Challenge and established visual contact, the 
thaumaturge can cause the target to perform any physical actions 
desired, including speech. The thaumaturge must keep the target in 
sight for the duration of the power. Because of the intense concentra- 
tion this power requires, the thaumaturge may not initiate any 
challenges while “puppeteering” a target. 
This power does not rob a victim of thought, only physical control. 
During this time, the target is aware that some outside force is having its way 
with him and his actions are not his own. This requires gracious roleplaying 
on the part of the target - 
the movements are not jerky and robotic, but as 
fluid as his own normal ones might be. Owing to logistical difficulties, the 
thaumaturge may wish to give a series of commands for the target or follow 
within earshot and whisper instructions. 
ADVANCED 
MASTFRYOPTHE 
MORTAL 
SHELL 
ONFIROMANCY 
The wellspring of the Sabbat’s Path of Morpheus, Oneiromncy (the 
ancient Roman study of dreams) has become more popular in light of the 
demise of the Tremere antitribu. Many Tremere are turning their attention 
back to the divinatory path, hoping that its hazy glimpses will offer guidance 
in the apocalyptic nights to come. Use of any of these powers requires at least 
five minutes’ worth of dreamlike trance (to be treated as the vampire’s 
daytime sleep, with any related penalties if awakened before the power is 
completed). This path retests with the Occult Ability. 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


This power requires the presence of a Storyteller or Narrator to provide 
results. Storytellers are encouraged to be deliberately vague when giving the 
results of these powers; no one ever said dreams had to be specific.. .. 
B A S I C  
ONEIROMANCY 
Portents 
By piecing together remnants of her dreams, the thaumaturge may 
perform a reading regarding her immediate future. This power must be used 
immediately after awakening from the dreamtrance, and takes 10 minutes of 
meditation to collect all the fragments of information. If the thaumaturge 
succeeds in a Simple Challenge with the Storyteller, she may then be given 
a series of allegorical or symbolic images concerning one upcoming event in 
her unlife. Repeated use of this power may only result in the same images 
appearing over and over. 
Foresee 
This power allows the Warlock to delve directly into the mind of a 
sleeping individual, exposing shards of her unconscious mind. While 
Portents may only be used to foretell the future of the thaumaturge, 
Foresee allows the same kind of divination for someone else. The subject 
must be in the presence of the thaumaturge and asleep, although the 
thaumaturge may be Psychically Projected. If this power is performed on 
Kindred, the caster must spend a Willpower Trait in order to see the 
dreams and understand the results 
If the casting is successful, the Storyteller will then relate the dream- 
images regarding the target’s future, as in Portents. 
INTERMEDIATE 
ONEI 
R O M A N C Y  
Dreamspeak 
The oneiromancer can now send messages, warnings or even 
threats to a target through dreams. While these messages will blend 
seamlessly into the target’s own dreams, he will remember them clearly 
upon waking. This power may be used upon anyone the thaumaturge 
has met, provided the target is asleep at the time. If successfully cast, 
the thaumaturge can insert a static dream-sequence no longer than 
five minutes into the sleeper’s reveries. A thaumaturge may not haunt 
her target all night/day, but the image will recur at intervals until the 
target awakes. 
Augury 
Where Portents offers mere fragments, Augury allows for more 
explicit prophetic vision or a potential breakthrough in a problem. 
Through the course of a dreamlike trance, the oneiromancer may now 
travel through her mind into the collective unconscious. If the caster 
wins a Simple Challenge with the Storyteller, the Storyteller may give 
the thaumaturge a series of dream-images spawned either by the 
thaumaturge or someone the oneiromancer has previously contacted 
through Foresee or Dreamspeak (whichever the thaumaturge designates 
before casting). Dream divination is still an imperfect art and may 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-4 
provide misleading symbols or information useless to the diviner - 
caveat emptor. 
This power may be used only once per night and only after the thaumaturge 
has prepared herself by at least 20 minutes of meditation. The Storyteller has 
final say on what information an Augury provides (ordoesn’t), and should not 
reveal things that could ruin a plot or chronicle. 
ADVANCED 
ONEIROMANCY 
Reveal the Heart’s Dreams 
A t  this level of mastery, the thaumaturge gains astounding in- 
sights into others simply by observing them. If successful, the 
oneiromancer learns of the target’s single guiding passion, or the thing 
he fears the most. The target must be within sight of the caster. For a 
mortal target, the caster spends a Willpower Trait and wins a Mental 
Challenge; a Kindred target requires the thaumaturge to spend two 
Willpower Traits and win the Mental Challenge. In either case, with 
success, the caster may ask for the target to reveal either his heart’s 
dream or his deepest fears. These are not merely temporary passions, 
but go to the very well of the soul. Armed with such information, a 
thaumaturge can make the target an offer that’s almost impossible to 
deny, or threaten him through his greatest fear (which may well result 
in frenzy). 
Storytellers should be present during the use of this power to ensure that 
the target of this power answers appropriately. 
P A T H O E T H E  BLOOD’S C U R S E  
It is the privilege of elder vampires to flagrantly abuse their power and 
status while the neonates and ancillae fume impotently. With the threat 
of Gehenna suddenly looming on the horizon, these “underdogs” are 
seeking creative ways to turn their tormentors’ age against them. This 
path, developed by rogue Pander and Caitiff thaumaturges, is just such a 
way. It may only be learned by Kindred of 10th generation or weaker, as 
the thinness of the thaumaturge’s blood is an integral part of the magic of 
the path, and the powers only work on vampires of equal or better 
generation. The path remains a guarded secret by those who learn it, and 
those upper-level Tremere who are aware of it watch their underlings 
closely for signs of it. Displaying knowledge of it is an excellent way to get 
a one-way ticket to Vienna. 
This path retests with the Occult Ability. 
BASIC PATHOETHE 
BLOOD’S 
CURSE 
Ravages Of The Beast 
A thaumaturge invoking this power (which may affect any Kin- 
dred within her line of sight) prods the target’s Beast into sudden and 
terrifying action. By succeeding in a Mental Challenge, the thaumaturge 
forces the target to immediately test for frenzy (type of frenzy should 
be appropriate to the situation). Note that Kindred with Instinct 
instead of Self-control will always frenzy if this power is successfully 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


used on them; otherwise, normal frenzy rules apply (see page 209 of 
Laws Of The Night). 
Weight Of The Sun 
As dawn approaches, Kindred feel their limbs and eyelids grow 
heavy and must quickly find shelter before they succumb to the irresist- 
ible weight of day-sleep; thaumaturges invoking this power inflict this 
same terrible helplessness upon their target. By succeeding in a Mental 
Challenge with her target, the thaumaturge causes the Kindred to not 
only gain the negative Physical Traits Lethargic x 2, but also prevents 
him from bidding any number of Traits greater than triple his Morality 
(or Path) rating. This power lasts for one scene and cannot affect 
characters who have achieved Golconda. 
I N T E R M E D I A T E  PATH O E T H E  BLOOD’S CURSE 
Abated Tooth 
A vampire unable to use his fangs is in sorry shape. By succeeding 
in a Mental versus Physical Challenge with his target, the thaumaturge 
causes the target’s fangs to become mystically blunted, unable to pierce 
flesh and robbing her of the ability to use them effectively. While 
affected in this way, a Kindred cannot use her fangs to either cause 
aggravated damage in combat or to feed normally. Even if the vampire 
manages to bite a victim, it will no longer trigger the ecstasy of the 
Kiss. This can make feeding problematic, if not nearly impossible, 
requiring the Kindred to find other means. Storytellers should feel free 
to throw whatever obstacles into the Kindred’s path, from irritated 
would-be vessels in the Rack to vexed sheriffs and princes dealing with 
a Masquerade threat. 
This power lasts for an entire night. 
Treacherous Bonds 
Many elder vampires have built a power base through judicious use of the 
blood bond, sometimes creating entire “broods” of thralls they know that can 
trust. This insidious power reverses the bond, wreaking havoc upon the 
hapless regnant. 
If invoking this power against a regnant, the thaumaturge must 
first touch the regnant, possibly requiring a Physical Challenge. If 
the touch is successful, the blood bond between that regnant and one 
thrall becomes corrupt and unstable. Regardless of how he genuinely 
feels about her, the regnant’s thrall now become actively distrustful 
and suspicious of her actions, possibly spreading her secrets to her 
enemies or plotting against her. This power works even if the thrall 
is unaware of the bond. If the thaumaturge turns this power against 
a thrall, only that thrall’s bond becomes warped. Both uses last for 
one night. 
Storytellers should be informed of this power’s use, and the 
thaumaturge should not be told out of character if the power has 
succeeded or failed. Many regents levy harsh censure on those appren- 
tices with knowledge of this power. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ADVANCED 
PATH 
o E T H F  BLOOD’S CURSE 
The Withering Of Ages 
This devastating power works directly upon the blood within a Kindred’s 
veins, stripping her of her immortality until she resembles her true age. By 
making a successful Physical Challenge with the target, the thaumaturge 
renders her decrepit, shriveled and warped. The target’s fangs elongate, and 
vampiric features become more pronounced. 
For every Willpower Trait the thaumaturge spends, the target is 
physically aged one decade. Each decade means the loss of two Physical 
Traits. While the target cannot be aged past zero Traits, without 
Physical Traits she cannot move, feed or even defend herself, and her 
speech becomes so soft as to be nearly inaudible. If aged to zero Physical 
Traits, she may also not initiate challenges, and any of her Appearance- 
based Social Traits are negated. For every five decades the target ages, 
she gains the Negative Traits Decrepit and Repugnant as her features 
become more feral and her body shrinks into a skeletal heap, in addition 
to the loss of Physical Traits. The target may attempt to restore herself 
by spending one Willpower Trait and five blood Traits in the same turn 
she was afflicted. 
Storytellers should feel free to increase or decrease these penalties as 
appropriate (if, for example, the vampire is only 10 years old, but was 
Embraced at age 70, or if the character has the Flaw: Child). This power lasts 
for one night, whereupon the vampire sheds her years and appears as young 
or old as the night of her Embrace. 
PATH 
o E CURSES 
This path, a natural extension of human spite, was developed early in 
the history of Thaumaturgy. Whatever it is called - 
whether it be hexing 
or bestowing the evil eye - 
it always involves a “calling down” of evil 
forces upon the victim. Some theorize that it is purely the psychological 
impact that makes the superstitious unlucky or ill, but thaumaturges know 
better. This path is extremely powerful, but is also dangerous; unlike other 
paths, the accursed usually know exactly who it is who is making their 
unlives miserable - 
a Warlock must speak aloud her curse directly to her 
target. While modern industrialized nations pooh-pooh the notion of 
curses, there are places in the world where such a brazen witch could find 
herself pursued by a mob. 
Warlocks wishing to bestow a curse upon the unlucky target must first 
possess a sympathetic link - 
a bit of blood, a lock of hair, a fingernail or the 
like - 
and then must win a Social Challenge against their victim while 
intoning to them the details of the curse (although not necessarily in a 
language the target understands). The sympathetic link might need to be 
acquired through a Physical Challenge; this is a good time to remind players 
of the “NO Touching” rule. A new sympathetic link must be used each time 
a power is invoked, even if it is upon the same person. This path retests with 
the Intimidation Ability. The thaumaturge can remove her own curses any 
time she wishes. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BASIC PA THO^ CURSES 
Stigma 
This, the most basic of curses, “marks” the victim with an invisible aura 
of revulsion. While no one will ever be able to say exactly why the target is 
uncomfortable to be around, it will make social dealings difficult nonetheless. 
The subject of this curse (who may be mortal or Kindred) must bid an extra 
Trait in all Social Challenges and loses all ties in Social Challenges. This 
power lasts until the next sunset. 
Malady 
This power allows the thaumaturge to infect Kindred or kine with a 
debilitating sickness. Even a powerful Cainite might think twice about crossing 
someone who could make them suffer the sicknesses of a common mortal. 
If this power is successfully invoked, the accursed suffers a two-Trait 
penalty to all physical actions due to intense discomfort; the disease looks and 
behaves similarly to influenza. The player should tell everyone around her of 
these developments and roleplay appropriately. This curse might also endan- 
ger the Masquerade as the accursed Kindred sneezes and vomits blood. It lasts 
until sunrise. 
INTERMEDIATE 
PATH 
O E  CURSES 
Pariah 
This curse touches upon the greatest fear in organized society, that 
of being wholly outcast. By twisting the perceptions of the target’s peers, 
the thaumaturge curses his target to appear as the most hateful of 
enemies to her peers (the target should indicate to anyone she interacts 
with that she appears to be the most horrible enemy that person can 
think of). This altered perception is only in body - 
the target may still 
act and speak as normal. 
Like Mask of 1000 Faces, this power affects the perceptions of the 
onlooker, leading him to believe that he sees his worst enemy before him. 
How he chooses to react is up to him: He may simply snub the target, or he 
might throw the first punch. Auspex cannot see through this power. This 
power lasts until sunrise. 
Corrupt Body 
While Pariah simply alters the perceptions of those around the target, 
Corrupt Body makes that appearance reality. By denouncing the physical form 
of the accursed, the thaumaturge forces her body to warp into a grotesque 
parody of what it once was. This outward caricaturing is accompanied by 
mind-wracking pain, and Kindred who have undergone this curse are often 
scarred both mentally and physically. 
If successfully cast, this power reduces the target’s Physical Traits to 
half (rounded down), bestows two Negative Physical Traits (Storyteller 
discretion, based on the curse) and renders all Appearance-based Social 
Traits unusable for the duration of the curse. The target must also spend 
one turn doing nothing but writhing in agony. After that turn of transfor- 
mation, the full weight of the curse descends, lasting until sunrise or until 
the thaumaturge lifts it. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ADVANCED 
PATH 
O E  CURSES 
Fall From Grace 
This power curses the target with supreme ineptitude, making even 
the most familiar of tasks an uncertain endeavor. If successfully invoked, 
the thaumaturge ensures that the odds will always be against the accursed 
-the target will lose all ties, in any challenge, and cannot use any retests, 
including those given by Merits (i.e. to succeed in an action, a person 
accursed in this way must straight-out win every challenge). This power 
lasts until sunrise. 
PATH 
OF TRANSMUTATION 
This path is regarded by elder Tremere as a kind of poor man’s Alchemy, 
as it deals with similar principles without the true mastery of the art. 
However, it is quick and does not require the structure of a laboratory to 
perform. Also, these powers may be used in conjunction with one another 
for more dramatic alterations and work upon any object within the 
thaumaturge’s direct line of sight (meaning that blood within a body cannot 
be affected, but blood exiting the body can). 
This path retests with the Occult Ability. 
BASIC PATH 
O E  TRANSMUTATION 
Fortify The Solid Form 
By strengthening the atomic bonds in an object, the magus in- 
creases the strength of an item, negating any Fragile Negative Traits it 
has and allowing for inherently weak objects (such as pencils) to 
function more effectively in combat situations. It can also be used to 
make armor tougher, enabling it to withstand one more Health Level 
than it would normally. Creative thaumaturges can use this power in 
other ways, at the Storyteller’s discretion. The magus must spend a 
Mental Trait to use this power. 
Objects thus enhanced will remain so for the duration of one scene. 
Crystallize the Liquid Form 
Originally developed to keep other Kindred from imbibing the 
thaumaturges’ vitae (as Kindred cannot consume congealed blood), this 
power will transform up to one Blood Trait’s worth (about two pints) of 
liquid into solid form. The substance will not change in temperature or 
volatility, only form (so solid acid will still corrode, solid molten metal 
will still burn, etc.). Liquids within living forms may not be affected. At 
the end of the scene, the material will revert to its natural form; solidified 
objects can be broken, although this weakness can be lessened through use 
of the first power of this path. The thaumaturge must spend a Mental Trait 
to enact this power. 
INTERMEDIATE PATH 
O E  TRANSMUTATION 
Liquefy the Solid Form 
As its name implies, use of this power melts objects into liquid 
puddles. The thaumaturge must spend a number of Mental Traits relevant 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to the size of the object affected (a stake might cost one, while a tank 
might require seven or eight). At the end of the scene, the object will 
revert to its “natural” form unless the puddle is scattered; Storytellers 
should be aware that the object will try to resume its previous form with 
as much material as remains. Also note that this power does not work on 
living (or unliving) beings. 
Gaol 
This power allows the Warlock to solidify air into an opaque, indestruc- 
tible barrier. A shimmering prison forms around the target’s body, encasing 
her within an impenetrable field; this power can also be used to form walls 
within doorways, solidifying the space within the doorframe. 
The thaumaturge may affect any area within 50 yards (and line of sight) 
of himself and must spend a number of Mental Traits relevant to the size of 
the area encased (a small rodent would cost one, while a normal-sized 
person would cost five). Once encased, Kindred suffer no penalties, but 
mortals experience the discomfort of adapting to breathing “liquid air” as 
the oxygen in the block becomes liquid-like but still breathable (and 
indeed, after being freed from their prison, mortals must cough out the 
condensed contents of their lungs, suffering one bashing level of damage 
while they retch). This prison is completely impenetrable, even by Kindred 
using Potence, and lasts for one scene. 
ADVANCED 
PATH 
O E  TRANSMUTATION 
Ghost Wall 
At this level of the path, thaumaturges find that solid objects offer no 
resistance. With due concentration, any material is rendered vaporous and 
may be passed through easily. While this power does not affect sentient 
beings, floors underneath foes may suddenly disappear, parachutes suddenly 
“don’t work,” or the prince’s favorite ghoul suddenly falls right through the car 
seat into traffic.. . . 
The thaumaturge must spend a number of Mental Traits relevant to 
the size of the object being made gaseous (one Mental Trait would be 
enough to affect a target’s clothes, while a city bus would take seven or 
eight). This power affects anything within the thaumaturge’s line of 
sight, and lasts for one scene, after which the object reforms itself 
exactly how and where it was when this power was used (vaporous 
objects may not be dissipated in any way). Should a victim be occupying 
the same space as an affected object after the power expires, the victim 
suffers a number of health levels of aggravated damage (amount deter- 
mined by the Storyteller based one the object). Objects conflicting this 
way remain together until one is invoked to vaporous state or is physi- 
cally removed. 
V I N E  
OE DIONYSUS 
Years before the coming of Christianity, temples devoted to the god 
Dionysus flourished throughout Greece. As a symbol of rebirth, vampires 
in those areas were drawn to him and worshipped nightly at his shrines, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


eagerly involving themselves in orgiastic bouts of wine and revelry. These 
practices eventually became reflected in the magic of the Tremere, 
although few Warlocks will openly admit to engaging in the shameful 
(and often cannibalistic) rites. 
Most practitioners of either gender on this path refer to them- 
selves as thyrsi (sing. thrysus); female Warlocks are sometimes called 
Maenads (usually from a safe distance). These Warlocks often display 
jewelry or symbols of their faith, including representations of pi- 
necones and ivy. 
Followers of this path find it is more of a religion than a series of magical 
formulae and cannot resist becoming entrenched in its hedonism; as a result, 
Kindred beginning this path automatically lose one permanent Willpower 
Trait as they become “addicted” to the pleasures. This path retests with the 
Occult Ability. 
B A S I C  PATHOETHE 
V I N B O E  
D I O N Y S U S  
Methy skein 
By making physical contact with his target, the Warlock causes her to 
behave and appear as if she were drunk. For one scene, a person affected by 
this power suffers a one-Trait penalty on all challenges involving Dexterity 
or Intelligence, and generally acts intoxicated, from slurred speech to eupho- 
ria and clouded judgement. 
If used on a mortal or ghoul three nights in a row, the victim becomes 
addicted to the euphoria this power brings and may suffer ill effects from 
this addiction (such as Trait penalties for each night without a “fix”). 
Omophagy 
This power hearkens back to Dionysus’ ability to invoke animal urges 
in his victims. By making direct eye contact and winning a Mental 
Challenge with her target, the Warlock imbues her target with an all- 
encompassing gluttony. Mortals eat until they become sick and even then 
will feel hungry and continue to gorge after they vomit. Kindred affected 
in this way will not only drain a vessel completely of blood (even if it is 
another Kindred!) but attempt to devour the victim’s flesh (although this 
does not grant the ability to digest whatever flesh is eaten, ensuring 
predictable, gory results). A Kindred who kills another in a fit of gustatory 
ecstasy cannot “accidentally” diablerize the victim. 
A vampire affected by this power seeks out the easiest “prey” readily 
available. If the vampire is hungry and confronted by the sight, smell or 
taste of blood, hunger frenzy occurs. The target loses awareness of her 
surroundings to the extent that a breach of Masquerade is probable. By 
spending a Willpower Trait, the victim may resist the hunger for one 
scene but will lapse back into it with gusto. This effect lasts for the rest 
of the night. 
INTERMEDIATE 
PATHOETHE 
V I N E O E  
DIONYSUS 
Hamartia 
Far more intense than the mere euphoria created by Methyskein, this 
power causes intoxication to the point of perversity, delirium and possibly 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


torpid stupor. In those who possess the path themselves, however, it also 
grants superhuman strength. 
By making physical contact with his target, the thaumaturge induces 
such euphoria in the victim that she is two Traits down on all challenges 
for the remainder of the scene. How the victim reacts to such intoxication 
is in the hands of the Storyteller - lust, depression and violence are 
possible, and the target’s Nature, Flaws or derangements may further 
affect her actions. 
Interestingly enough, while they also suffer most of the negative effects 
detailed above, when this path is used upon another follower of the Vine of 
Dionysus the victim takes no penalty to physical actions and gains a two-Trait 
bonus in challenges involving strength. 
Enthousiasm6s 
With this power, the follower of Dionysus exudes a powerful phero- 
mone with which she may “infect” others within a 10 foot radius. Anyone 
affected will fall into a narcotic stupor as the hallucinogen induces pleasant, 
dreamlike images. In this state they wilt simply giggle, dance or sigh as they 
sink into the visions. 
By succeeding in this power, the Warlock ensures that the targets are far 
too Submissive x 2, Lethargic and Witless to pose much of a threat; they’re 
inclined to passive euphoria, content to while away their time with their 
visions (which are better than television). Someone affected by this power 
may spend a temporary Willpower to shrug off the effects for one turn, after 
which he slides back under. This power lasts for one scene. 
ADVANCED 
PATHOETHE 
V I N E O E  
DIONYSUS 
Oinos Aimatos 
By invoking the essence of the wine-god into themselves, the thrysus 
transforms his blood into a powerful elixir. For the duration of one scene, 
anyone imbibing even the tiniest drop of the Warlock‘s blood will be affected 
as per Enthousiasrn6s. The thaumaturge need only spend a Blood Trait and a 
Willpower Trait upon first invoking this power: He can affect as many targets 
as drink his blood without further expense. 
If dumped into a communal punchbowl or the like, it can only be 
detected through the use of Heightened Senses and a successful Mental 
Challenge (difficulty at the Storyteller’s discretion). It can also be detected 
by enhanced powers of taste, but by then of course it is too late for the Kindred 
in question. 
The effects of this power last for one scene. 
TRFMERF 
RITUALS 
Thaumaturgical rituals can be defined as a unique series of gestures, 
invocations and material components that achieve a particular magical 
purpose. The more dramatic and far-reaching the effect desired, the more 
complex and difficult the ritual will be. 
The creation of rituals requires lengthy and painstaking experimen- 
tation. A Kindred must possess at least five levels of the Occult Ability 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


before she can even begin to sketch out her own ritual, and must also 
possess a level of Thaumaturgy at least one step greater than the level of 
the ritual she is attempting to write; after that, the player should let the 
Storyteller know what effect she is after and how exactly she is going 
about it, and be willing to negotiate. The actual details of the ritual are 
up to the Storyteller; factors to consider when determining the power of 
the ritual are level (Basic, Intermediate, Advanced), components (are 
they rare or mundane? will they result in a loss of Humanity to use or 
obtain?), casting time (is the “usual” time for a ritual of that level, or 
does it take longer/shorter?) and overall difficulty (does it require a 
Blood Trait from the target?). When both the Storyteller and player 
have agreed upon a balanced ritual, the character then “experiments” 
in-character for a length of time appropriate to the level of the ritual 
(double the time it takes to learn Disciplines of the same level is one 
idea), at the end of which the character has a completed set of notes to 
actually learn the ritual from. 
Learning existing rituals requires the study of someone else’s written 
notes on the ritual until it is committed to memory; the more common rituals 
listed in Laws of the Night may be found in nearly every Tremere library, but 
some of the rituals listed below are particularly inaccessible. Storytellers may 
decide to make the rituals with a path listed after them only available to, or 
taught by, followers of that path. 
Casting rituals requires a Static Mental Challenge (against five Traits 
for a Basic, seven Traits for an Intermediate and nine Traits for an 
Advanced) and, unless otherwise stated in the ritual description, 10 
minutes for each level (10 minutes for Basic, 20 minutes for Intermediate, 
and 30 minutes for an Advanced). Although all of the rituals listed here 
include necessary components (usually readily available through the use 
of Influences), you may opt, as the Storyteller, to allow them to assume the 
components were on hand. Very few of the rituals in Laws Of The Night 
have component requirements, it’s true; but the rituals listed here are 
more specialized and less ubiquitous, and therefore might require a bit 
more effort on the part of the thaumaturge. Just keep in mind that the 
acquisition of arcane objects and occult materials is an ongoing task for 
thaumaturge and can be the basis for many intricate plots. 
A NOTE 
Some of these effects can be darned hard to simulate in a live-action 
setting or make demands of a Storyteller (such as following an unlucky target 
ofjinx). You may choose to designate aNarrator to handle such duties, to alter 
the effects of a ritual in the name of expedience or simply to disallow it 
altogether. 
B A s I c THAW 
MATU R cj I CAL RITUALS 
Blood Mead (Vine of Dionysus) 
Followers of Dionysus claim that their potions do more than just 
intoxicate. By invoking Dionysus’ blessing upon a special concoction of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


mead (fermented honey) and two of his own Blood Traits, the ritualist 
creates a brew that is both invigorating and anesthetizing. By drinking 
this potion immediately after casting, the thaumaturge gains an extra 
Healthy health level, but also becomes one Trait down on all challenges 
involving dexterity or intelligence due to intoxication. This ritual lasts 
for one night. 
Brand of the Paramour 
This ritual enables the thaumaturge to maintain constant aware- 
ness of her ghoul’s physical condition. The Warlock obtains a Blood 
Trait from mortal twins of any age (two Blood Traits in total) and 
performs the ritual over the blood. Both ghoul and Kindred then drink 
equally of the vitae, after which time the Kindred will feel a “ghost” 
pain in the same place that the ghoul suffers, although the severity of 
the damage will be uncertain. The thaumaturge suffers no unusual 
physical effects (other than pain) no matter how badly injured the 
ghoul is, even if her ghoul is slain. This ritual lasts until the ghoul is 
Embraced or killed. 
Craft Bloodstone 
By imbuing a small pebble with her own vitae, the thaumaturge 
creates a mystical tracking device to which she will always be connected. 
This ritual takes three consecutive nights to cast; on the first night, the 
thaumaturge soaks the pebble in three Traits of her blood and recites the 
ritual while the stone absorbs a portion of the vitae. On the second night, 
she completes the next phase of the incantation, during which the pebble 
absorbs more of the blood. On the final night, the last of the blood is 
absorbed (although the pebble’s appearance does not change) and the 
thaumaturge instinctively knows where the pebble is at all times. While 
this does not grant precise knowledge of its location, it does give the caster 
a strong sense of distance and direction. This ritual takes five minutes per 
night, for three nights. 
Encrypt Missive 
Centuries of clan secrets have been preserved through judicious use of 
this ritual, although now it also seems common among the anarchs of the new 
states, who use it to encrypt graffiti on slum alleyways. By writing the message 
in blood and speaking the name of the person he wishes to read it, the 
thaumaturge ensures that anyone else spying the document will interpret it 
as meaningless scribbles. Only the writer and the person to whom the note is 
addressed may read it 
Enhancing the Curse 
This ritual is used almost exclusively to punish or torment ghouls. By 
scratching or striking the ghoul, drawing blood and speaking the ancient 
words of the curse, the Warlock bestows a terrible vulnerability to sunlight 
upon her. For as long as vampiric vitae courses through her veins, the ghoul 
now suffers aggravated damage from exposure to sunlight at a rate of one 
health level per two turns as her skin blisters and blackens into third-degree 
bums. This ritual lasts for one month. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Extinguish 
By first intoning the ritual and then pinching out a candle flame 
(possibly requiring a Courage check) and spitting on the floor, the caster 
of this ritual ensures that for the remainder of the night he has a degree of 
mastery over flames. After this ritual is successfully cast, the thaumaturge 
may at any time for the rest of the evening speak a magical syllable that 
will completely extinguish any one flame up to the size of a small bonfire. 
After it has been used, the spell is broken. Even if this ritual goes unused 
after casting, it must be recast the next night if the caster wishes to retain 
its effects. 
Impassable Trail 
The vampire can travel through even the densest woods without betray- 
ing any sign of passage aside from her faint scent (which can only be detected 
by Heightened Senses or other supernatural sensory abilities). The thaumaturge 
must either carry an owl‘s feather steeped in Kindred vitae or bum the legs of 
a dead toad and carry the ashes with her while this ritual is in effect. It lasts 
until sunrise. 
Impressive Visage 
This ritual grants the caster a degree of sheer physical magnetism 
and ensures he will be neither ignored nor forgotten. He simply appears 
to be more desirable and attractive than anyone else in the room. By 
performing this ritual and then placing a sprig of dried mint in his right 
shoe or pocket, the Warlock gains two Appearance-related Social Traits 
for an evening. While they may not be bid, they may be counted in ties 
and overbids even if it goes over the Kindred’s generational maximum. 
This power may not be “stacked” for an evening. 
The Imp’s Affliction 
This ritual only works on mortals, and infects them with an uncom- 
fortable and embarrassing illness. While under the effects of this ritual, 
the target’s eyes and nose overflow with mucus, her throat becomes raw 
and raspy, and her eyes constantly brim with tears. Storytellers should 
assign penalties appropriate to the target’s actions (Social and Physical 
Challenges are certainly more difficult). This ritual lasts for one scene 
and requires the thaumaturge to write the target’s name on a scrap of 
paper and then burn it. 
Jinx 
By sacrificing some of the victim’s blood, the thaumaturge afflicts a 
Cainite with bad luck. The thaumaturge must possess at least one Trait of 
the target’s vitae, which disappears during the sending, after which the 
Storyteller should be informed of the ritual’s success so she can properly 
interpret the consequences. For one scene, anything that can go wrong for 
the character will - 
he trips on his shoelaces as he enters a room, his car 
fails to start at a critical moment, or he alerts a firewall while he’s hacking 
into a mainframe. 
This ritual won’t do direct damage to the victim but should definitely 
make the Jinxed person’s evening more interesting. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Learning the Mind Enslumbered 
With this ritual, a thaumaturge can determine the cause of a 
Kindred’s torpor or demise. After placing a penny or other small coin 
on the vampire’s eye, she will hear the Kindred’s spirit tell the 
particulars of its current state. She may also invoke this power on a 
vampire’s ashen remains. The thaumaturge cannot carry on a conver- 
sation with the spirit. This power takes a full half-hour to perform and 
only works on Kindred. 
Mourning Life Curse 
Although this ritual causes no real physical harm (outside of 
blood loss) to mortals, it can be incredibly frightening to those who 
view it. The Warlock drinks a dram of thrice-distilled crocodile 
blood, then makes a paste of copal oil, ground eyebright and dates. He 
may carry the paste until he finds a suitable target. When the 
thaumaturge wishes to enact this ritual, she must first dab the paste 
onto her target’s eyes (possibly requiring a challenge) and then 
whisper a two-line incantation in his ear (the target must be able to 
hear the words to be affected by this ritual, although he may be 
asleep). The mortal then begins to uncontrollably weep bloody tears. 
This unstoppable blood loss continues until the thaumaturge stops 
visually concentrating upon the mortal. Thaumaturges performing 
this ritual are unable to take any other actions, as the totality of their 
will is focused on the mortal. The bleeding is painless but slow; one 
Blood Trait will be secreted for every five minutes. Some Tremere use 
this to feed upon sleeping victims. 
Purge the Inner Demon 
All Kindred face the Beast; thaumaturges developed this ritual to 
control it. By pushing a sturdy pin through her own hand, the Warlock 
causes a vampire’s Beast to be temporarily separated from her psyche. 
She may be pulled out of frenzy by this ritual. In this state, she cannot 
be made to frenzy by anything non-supernatural in nature, but she also 
gains the Negative Social Trait Submissive. This power lasts a number of 
hours equal to the caster’s Morality Traits. The thaumaturge may not use 
this power on himself. 
Rebirth Of Mortal Vanity 
Often a useful chip for bargaining with the Toreador, this ritual allows 
a vampire to effectively “grow” hair. For every inch of hair he wishes, the 
recipient of the ritual (whether the caster or another Kindred) must pluck 
a hair from the head of a living human child. The thaumaturge then places 
the hairs on a mirror and invokes the ritual. As the vampire’s hair begins 
to grow, the child’s hairs disappear into the surface of the mirror. Once the 
ritual is finished, the hair ceases to grow, but the hair will remain at the 
new length until cut. If it is ever cut shorter than it was at the vampire’s 
Embrace, it will return to its original pre-ritual length the next sunset. 
Note that this ritual will not grow hair on a bald vampire, and the ritualist 
cannot change the color or other features of the hair. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Rite of Introduction 
This ritual is used for a newly arriving Tremere to make a formal 
introduction to the regent of the city. The arrival of the telephone and e- 
mail has made the ritual mostly obsolete, but some tradition-minded 
regents will not accept a visitor who has not followed protocol. The caster 
boils a handful of ground tamarisk root in a pot of rainwater, then recites 
an incantation into the vapors that form over the water and adds a drop 
of galangal oil, then speaks a brief (30 second) message of introduction for 
the regent of the city. The regent may reply telepathically for up to five 
minutes if she wishes. 
Sanguineous Phial 
This ritual enables the caster to mystically enchant a vessel so 
that it will hold a quantity of blood without spoiling. The Warlock 
must obtain a covered earthenware jar and bury it in the earth for 
two nights, after which she digs it up and crumbles an ash leaf into 
the empty canister. Then the blood is poured in, and the jar is 
closed and sealed with tallow from a candle. The blood remains 
fresh until the seal is broken; after the jar is opened, the blood will 
begin to rot at a normal rate, but if the jar is broken, the blood 
immediately decays as if it had never been preserved. This ritual 
must be recast every time the thaumaturge wishes to preserve blood, 
even if she uses the same container. 
The Scribe 
With this power, the thaumaturge’s spoken words are mystically 
transcribed into a written document. The document can take almost any 
form - 
the words may appear in a bound book, on loose-leaf paper, on a 
wall, the head of apin or whatever, but clarity may be sacrificed (100 pages 
will not translate onto a notecard without difficulty). Some younger 
Warlocks even use this to mimic a computer’s speech recognition pro- 
gram. Note that the transcription is literal - 
the ritual will not improve 
a speaker’s quality or clarity. The caster may also lay this ritual on another 
with the same effects, but must crush a bird’s beak or lizard’s tongue 
between her thumb and forefinger each time. This power lasts for one 
scene, or until the thaumaturge chooses to end it. 
Sense The Mystical 
This ritual enables the thaumaturge to sense magical effects and 
enchanted objects. The Warlock chants non-stop for five minutes to 
invoke this power, then carries a lit candle with him. When the 
candlelight finds an object or effect touched by blood-related magic, the 
item glitters. This power will sense any kind of blood-related magic 
(including Thaumaturgy, Necromancy and the user) as long as it is 
currently being invoked, any magically created or manipulated items 
and, at the Storyteller’s discretion, any traces of True Magick in the area 
of the candle’s light. This power does not distinguish between the 
different types of magic it reveals and lasts for one scene. It is not 
triggered by “normal” Disciplines. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Trima (The Vine of Dionysus) 
This type of oinos is made with spices that warm the drinkers’ blood and 
make them drowsy and content. Thaumaturges often use this ritual at parties 
where both Kindred and kine mingle, the better to protect the Masquerade 
if the vampires choose to feed. Although the creation of the spiced wine 
requires a Trait of the caster’s vitae, Kindred feeding from mortals under the 
influence of the enspelled beverage need not worry about becoming blood 
bound to the caster; all supernatural properties of the thaumaturge’s blood are 
dissolved into the trim. 
Mortals drinking the concoction suffer the Negative Traits Submissive 
and Lethargic, and any details about the evening they try to remember later 
will be fuzzy and indistinct. The power of the oinos lasts until sunrise. 
Whispers Of The Ghost 
This ritual, when combined with the Auspex power of Psychic Projec- 
tion, enables the ritualist to speak directly into the material world while 
in his astral form. After weaving the spell, the Cainite may only speak in 
whispers to the physical world (he cannot be seen or touched). This power 
lasts for one scene, counted from the first word the thaumaturge utters. 
The thaumaurge must carry the ear of a still-living creature in his left hand 
while performing this ritual. 
I NTE R M E D I ATE TH 
A U  M ATU ~q I C A L  XI 
T u A L  s 
Blood Allergy 
A grim reminder of the frailties of mortal flesh, this ritual enables the 
caster to forcefully “purge” blood from a victim’s body. By mixing a Blood 
Trait with dead rose petals and speaking the incantation, the ritualist makes 
it impossible for the target to keep blood in her system; for every Blood Trait 
above three the target possesses, she spends one turn vomiting it from her 
body. The Kindred cannot retain more than three Blood Traits in her body 
for the duration of the ritual; if she attempts to drink more, she immediately 
suffers severe nausea and vomiting until the extra blood is gone. While this 
loss of blood will not induce torpor, it may require the vampire to make a 
hunger frenzy check (at the Storyteller’s discretion). This power lasts for an 
entire evening. This power will not work on those Kindred who are older 
than the caster. 
Cleansing Of The Flesh 
With the spread of blood plagues such as AIDS, Kindred often find 
themselves unwitting carriers of these unflattering “social” diseases. A 
Warlock wishing to rid himself of these kinds of maladies must spend a 
full night in a bathtub (or cauldron) filled with purified water, bleeding 
all but the tiniest drop of blood from his body. As the blood is diffused 
into the water, any addictions and diseases (non-supernatural) the 
Kindred’s body might carry are bled out. This ritual may be performed 
upon another Kindred; in this case, the subject must lie in the water, 
having opened his own veins, while the thaumaturge chants for the 
course of the night. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Kindred with no blood in their bodies are ravenously hungry; a source of 
blood should be immediately on hand or else the vampire might frenzy 
(Kindred with low Self-control are particularly dangerous after this ritual has 
been completed for this reason). 
Craft Dream Catcher (Oneiromancy) 
By incorporating Native American beliefs with their own ageless 
arts, oneiromancers both create a portal into a target’s dreams and 
guard them against hostile spirits. A Dream Catcher is an intensely 
personal talisman composed of the target’s hair, spittle, blood and 
other sympathetic links. Owners of these “shields” are afforded more 
protection against any ghostly attack (spirits trying to adversely affect 
the owner are two Traits down to do so); also, the oneiromancer who 
crafted the artifact is granted a two-Trait bonus when affecting its 
owner with that path, while other oneiromancers attempting to do so 
take a two-Trait penalty. This power lasts until the artifact is lost, 
stolen or destroyed. 
The Curse Belated 
This ritual is used to safeguard particularly precious ghouls against 
untimely death, especially when they are being considered for Em- 
brace. By increasing the power of the vampiric blood running through 
his thrall’s veins, the ritualist all but insures the mortal’s survival; 
the instant a ghoul under this spell dies (in any way) the infused vitae 
in her body will revive her as a Kindred within 10 minutes (ghouls 
who die in a particularly mangled state should probably be given the 
Flaw: Permanent Wound or something else appropriate when they 
return as Kindred). To cast this ritual, the thaumaturge willingly 
loses one permanent Blood Trait, which is returned to the caster’s 
blood pool when the ghoul dies. The inaccessible Blood Trait re- 
mains in the ghoul’s system and may not be used to power Disciplines 
or be lost in any way. If someone else attempts to Embrace the 
enspelled ghoul, the mortal will revive as a Kindred - 
as the childe 
of the thaumaturge who cast the spell. The thaumaturge must brand 
the target ghoul with his sigil, which disappears when the ghoul 
awakens as undead. 
Infirm Inert 
One of the most powerful properties of a Kindred’s vitae is its ability 
to heal the vampire of nearly any trauma; this ritual deprives a Kindred of 
that advantage, rendering her impotent to close her wounds. The 
thaumaturge must first imbibe a small quantity of blood laced with 
laudanum (which will grant the caster the Negative Physical Trait 
Lethargic for the scene immediately following the casting); after that, he 
only need smear a tiny bit of his blood onto the victim’s skin to bestow the 
curse upon her for the rest of the evening. The target may not be aware of 
the change until she first attempts to heal. She may spend a Willpower 
Trait to negate this effect for one turn. When the ritual expires, she may 
heal as normal, according to the level of damage. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Major Creation (Path of Conjuring) 
While the Path of Conjuring is limited with regard to the size of the 
items created, this ritual gives the conjurer more range. It requires the 
caster to sever her thumb (requiring the expenditure of a temporary 
Willpower); the digit disappears when the enlarged item is successfully 
conjured, although it will regenerate at a normal rate. After this ritual is 
cast, the thaumaturge may now spend either two or three temporary 
Mental Traits to make a summoned item either double or triple the size he 
can normally conjure. Note that this ritual works in conjunction with 
whatever power of the path the caster is using (so combining this with 
Summon The Simple Form will still only enable basic items to be conjured, 
but now they can be bigger basic items). 
Once the thumb is consumed by the ritual, the thaumaturge can no 
longer create enlarged objects until the ritual is recast. 
Return of the Heart (Path of the Blood’s Curse) 
This ritual overwhelms the target with human guilt. By mixing a Trait 
of the victim’s blood with the tears of an infant, the thaumaturge forces 
the victim to reflect upon her past actions through the eyes of an 
innocent. While this does not affect a Path rating, the Cainite behaves for 
the rest of the evening as if she had a Morality rating of 5 and is governed 
by the Path of Humanity. This will probably result in several Conscience/ 
Conviction Virtue tests, at the Storyteller’s discretion. This power is 
particularly terrible against Sabbat elders, who may be destroyed by their 
packmates for such “weakness.” 
Scry 
The thaumaturge causes a body of water, whether natural or 
artificial, to become a scrying pool after mixing it with owl’s blood. 
The water must be relatively still, and confined pools no larger than 
a bathtub work better than open lakes. The caster can either concen- 
trate on a known location he has visited or a person; if spying upon 
a person, the ritualist must possess an object of personal significance 
to the target. Auspex or other powers may not be used while Scrying 
to “remotely” affect the victim. The thaumaturge may not change the 
target of the Scry once cast; for example, if the focus is a location, it 
will remain locked on that area for the duration of the ritual. This 
power lasts for 10 minutes, although viewing time may be lengthened 
by the expenditure of one temporary Mental Trait for each additional 
10 minutes. 
Stolen Kisses 
Thaumaturges use this macabre power when they do not wish to, or 
are unable to, feed by fang. By making a small incision on her body and 
performing the ritual (which requires that the thaumaturge always carry 
a “witch’s kiss” - 
a thistle steeped in vampiric vitae), the ritualist seals 
the self-inflicted wound into an undetectable mouthlike sucker which 
only opens when pressed against a mortal’s warm flesh, and which can 
mystically drain blood from the vessel. Warlocks feeding in this manner 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


quietly steal one Blood Trait every other turn from the time the contact 
persists. Particularly lascivious thaumaturges will create this orifice to be 
used during sexual contact, thus combining both the passions of life and 
undeath; more conservative Warlocks prefer a lengthy firm handshake. 
Whatever the medium for exchange, vessels will not be immediately 
aware of their blood loss (although they will suffer the usual health 
effects); this particularly tidy method of feeding causes neither the rapture 
of the Kiss nor any immediate discomfort to the vessel. The “mouth” will 
last until sunrise. 
Telecommunication 
In these nights, precocious Tremere are relying more on electronic 
devices than the animal spies and familiars of yesteryear. With this 
ritual, any television the thaumaturge has touched in the last week may 
now be used as both an “eye” into the room as well as a device for 
beguiling those watching the set. The thaumaturge, by performing this 
ritual and dropping into a meditative state, may observe everything from 
a “television’s-eye-view” and can also regulate any images or sounds the 
television generates, from changing the channel to crafting a fake 
broadcast. This power lasts for 10 minutes from the completion of the 
ritual, although it may be prolonged for an extra 10 minutes per 
temporary Mental Trait spent. While in this meditative state (which 
may be broken at any time, also breaking the ritual), the caster may not 
initiate challenges. 
A Touch Of Nightshade 
This ritual allows the thaumaturge to poison a single victim with but 
a slight touch. The caster must anoint his hands with the bitter extract 
of deadly nightshade before conducting this ritual. Anytime after the 
ritual, anyone the caster touches with his bare hands will become 
poisoned; this weakness lasts until sunrise and inflicts one health level 
of bashing damage (not halved) per hour to Kindred and one health 
level of lethal damage to mortals. The caster may not reverse these 
effects; once the victim is poisoned, it must run its course. This poison 
may not be treated by medical means or by “burning” the blood in a 
Kindred’s body. The effects of the poison will not transfer if the victim’s 
blood is drunk. 
Track Transgressor 
Developed as a means for Tremere to track down those non-clan Kindred 
who have managed to learn the secrets of Thaumaturgy, this ritual makes the 
target’s most recent footsteps visible to the caster. By uttering mystical 
syllables and spilling a Trait of her vitae upon the ground where the infidel 
is known to have worked Thaumaturgy within the past 24 hours, the caster 
may then be able to track the magus for the rest of the evening. This tracking 
follows the exact path the other magus took after leaving the area where the 
magic was worked. This ritual may only track down Thaumaturgy, not 
Necromancy or other kinds of blood magic, and does not distinguish between 
Tremere and non-Tremere. 
\ 
I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Ward Versus Fae 
The fae are not nicknamed “The Wild Ones” erroneously; the 
Tremere developed this ritual to keep the Fair Folk from interfering 
with their affairs. While most modern Tremere scoff at the notion of 
faeries, this ritual lurks in faded tomes and forgotten libraries still. It 
is cast in much the same way as Ward Versus Ghouls (with identical size 
restrictions), except that a handful of cold iron filings is used in lieu of 
a Trait of blood. 
A D  
V A N  CB D TH 
AU M ATU R G  I CA L RI T U  A LS 
Cobra’s Favor 
Echoing the curse laid upon the Assamites, elder Tremere created this 
ritual to make their vitae so poisonous that it would burn anything living 
it touched. After combining one Trait of her blood with a brew of toxic 
herbs and snake venom, the thaumaturge then recites a complicated 
incantation over it, calling upon the spirit of all things baneful. After this, 
the concoction turns a fetid black, and the ritualist must ingest the elixir 
(suffering a level of unsoakable aggravated damage). For one full month, 
the thaumaturge’s blood turns to a deadly poison and inflicts one level 
aggravated damage per Trait to anyone ingesting it. Needless to say, this 
makes creating ghouls or childer near impossible. 
Court Of Hallowed Truth 
Once created for Tremere tribunals, this ritual has seen much wider 
use in these treacherous nights. Indeed, princes who know of this ritual 
often call upon the Tremere to cast it for them, and the Tremere will, of 
course, oblige - 
for the right price. By placing a pair of crossed bones 
before every entry into a room (including windows), the ritualist weaves 
a powerful magic through the chamber. While this ritual is in effect, no 
falsehood may be spoken within the room regardless of how much the 
speaker wishes to deceive, and direct questions from the presiding judge 
or power must be answered completely candidly, with no creative omis- 
sions. This power lasts for a single night in the room, after which it must 
be cast again to be effective. 
Princes who rely too heavily upon this power quickly lose the respect of 
their peers and become ridiculously indebted to the Warlocks, not to mention 
eroding their own power-bases. Most Kindred resent such heavy-handed 
tactics and may refuse to attend meetings where this will be used. 
Severed Hand 
Developed during the Dark Ages, this ritual forms a particularly 
effective method of punishment for Kindred who have transgressed, 
but have not been deemed worthy of destruction. Use of this powerful 
rite (which requires an entire night of preparation) prevents a Kindred’s 
severed appendage from healing normally, even if they attempt to re- 
attach the body part. The thaumaturge must possess the severed body 
part (which may be a hand, arm, foot, eye, tongue or anything else) and 
have lengthy access to the victim’s stump (or socket, or... ). By 
swabbing both pieces with volatile and mysterious compounds, the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


thaumaturge ensures that the Kindred becomes permanently maimed. 
Kindred affected in this way will have an appropriate Flaw given to 
them by the Storytellers (such as One Arm, Bad Sight, Mute, etc.); the 
appendage may not be regenerated by any means short of supernatural 
healing (such as Obeah). 
Stone Of The True Form 
This ritual forces the transformation of any form-altering creature back 
into its natural state. By coating a small pebble in one Trait of his vitae, the 
thaumaturge creates a talisman capable of rendering even enraged Garou 
unable to shift their shape at will. Anyone touched by the pebble (which is 
good for one use) must assume his “natural” shape; Garou shift to their breed 
form, Gangrel using Protean are forced into their usual vampiric shape 
(including the temporary loss of Wolf Claws), a Nosferatu’s Mask of 1000 
Faces vanishes, and Tzimisce altered through Vicissitude return to the shape 
they had at the time of their Embrace. The Warlock must successfully touch 
the target with the pebble, probably requiring a Physical Challenge; the 
victim’s inability to change form lasts for a scene, after which they may 
resume their shapeshifting. 
Stone Slumber 
Inspired by the Gargoyles they kept enslaved for so long, this ritual 
enables Warlocks to transform their bodies into solid stone, becoming 
completely immune to most of the dangers they might face during the day. 
This ritual is highly precise - 
any mistake might result in that morning being 
the last sunrise the thaumaturge will ever see. 
Beginning exactly one hour before sunrise, the thaumaturge first 
smears her body with the blood of a 12-hour-old corpse. Then, she must 
stand completely still in an open area, facing east. If the ritual has been 
performed correctly, she turns to stone as the sun’s rays strike her. In this 
form, the Kindred is completely protected from all forms of physical 
damage, most types of flame (including sunlight) and heat (unless the 
heat is great enough to melt rock, such as lava). Telepathy and other 
mental Disciplines are useless, as the thaumaturge’s mind is dormant. The 
Kindred is not aware of her surroundings during this time, will not dream, 
and will wake 10 minutes after sunset that evening, although she must 
spend an additional Blood Trait to rouse herself. 
M A S T E R  T H A U M A T U R ~ I C A L  
RITUAL 
Refined Digestion 
This powerful curse gives even the weakest neonate a Methuselah’s 
hunger for Kindred blood. Cainites affected by this ritual can now 
gain no nourishment from mortal blood. To cast this ritual, the 
thaumaturge first requires five Traits of the victim’s blood, which he 
mixes with five of his own. Then the ritualist must spend a permanent 
Willpower Trait, after which time the victim is afflicted with this 
hunger for a month’s time. Such a curse may be a death sentence for 
the unfortunate Kindred as such hungers are seen as a step away from 
that most forbidden of thirsts. The ritualist may reverse this effect 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


with an additional five Blood Traits from the victim and all the blood 
from a normal mortal. 
ASCENDANT 
T H A U M A T U R ~ I C A L  
RITUAL 
Eyes Of The Ever Vigilant 
The original (and extremely powerful) version of this ritual is the 
mainstay of the most clandestine of Tremere chantries and strongholds; 
this weaker version has trickled its way down into more ubiquitous usage. 
Few outside Clan Tremere even know of its existence as it is a fairly recent 
addition to the Tremere libraries. Successful casting of this ritual requires 
three thaumaturges to perform the incantations. During the five-night 
ritual, the eyes of seven vampires who have lied to any of the three 
thaumaturges casting the ritual must be dropped into an alchemical 
compound, which is boiled away through the ritual. The ritual enchants 
one structure (one haven, one building - a multi-building campus 
requires multiple rituals). After that, Kindred within the structure are 
unaffected by Obfuscate and Chimerstry. Should an Obfuscated Nosferatu 
attempt to cross the threshold of a place under this ritual, the Discipline 
fails. This power lasts for a year; if it is to be re-dedicated, one of the elder 
Warlocks present at the initial casting need only recite the original 
incantation to empower it for another year. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TH 
B We E K o E N I ~  
HTMARB s 
The Week of Nightmares shakes the supernatural denizens of the 
World of Darkness, reminding most Kindred that there is much more 
to unlife than even they see. In short, the Ravnos Antediluvian 
awakens, battles three of the most powerful Cathayans, and is finally 
destroyed by the combined (though not allied) power of those 
Cathayans and the Technocracy, after which the Ravnos as a whole 
go mad, attempting to slaughter each other. For those who have made 
a study of the mythology of the Kindred, these events point toward 
the arrival of Gehenna. This is not a local affair, though; when a 
being as powerful as the Antediluvian awakens, the ramifications are 
felt across the globe. 
This section is divided into four sections. The first section presents 
an overview of what actually happened, both at ground zero and across 
the globe, how it fits into the World Of Darkness’ grand story arc and the 
aftermath. It looks at who was left standing, who met their final death 
and other such concerns on the large scale. The second section offers 
Mind’s Eye Theatre systems for handling the effects of the Week of 
Nightmares on the local scale across the globe. The third section delves 
into how you can shepherd your own chronicle through the Week of 
Nightmares, inviting your players to be perplexed and shaken by events 
far larger than they are. The last section looks at the long-term effects 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of this event, how they can affect a chronicle and possible directions for 
new storylines and themes. 
WHAT HAPPENS 
OEESTAC~E 
Ground zero for the Week of Nightmares is Bangladesh - 
south of 
China and east of India. In official World of Darkness chronology, these 
events take place in July 1999. Wise Storytellers will keep their players’ 
characters away from Bangladesh at this time. 
ACT ONE: THE 
E I R S T A N D  SECOND 
NIGHTS 
The Ravnos Antediluvian - known by some as Churka and 
others as Ravanna - 
awakens in Pakistan, drawn by the blood of its 
childer spilt in their battles with the Cathayans. The Antediluvian 
promptly slakes its millennia-old thirst on those of its Methuselahs 
that are available. 
Since the awakening of an Antediluvian is a mystical event of 
grand magnitude, its spiritual reverberations are felt across the world 
by those open to such experiences. Vampires (as well as the rest of the 
world) experience nightmares during their slumber. They can remem- 
ber nothing when they awake, but instead have a sense of missing 
something important. They are ill-tempered and edgy. Psychics, the 
mentally ill and other sensitive beings across the globe experience 
spontaneous and uncontrollable visions of these events, but such 
visions are allegorical and oracular in nature rather than providing 
explicit news of what is transpiring. 
Three Cathayan bodhisattvas (the most powerful of Cathayans), recog- 
nize the situation for what it is and move with their acolytes and allies to 
intercept the antediluvian. 
A C T  Two: THE THIRD 
N I C ~ H T  
On the third night, the Antediluvian and the three bodhisattvas meet in 
battle. One of the Cathayans summons forth a hurricane, both as a weapon 
and as a shield against the sun so they can continue the fight into the 
Bangladeshi day. Another weakens the Gauntlet and calls forth the creatures 
of the spirit worlds to aid in the battle. Thousands of Bangladeshis die in the 
resultant flooding. 
The Technocracy has taken note of these developments and responds 
by declaring Code Ragnarok - 
an alert condition that results from a threat 
to the entire planet. They bring giant solar reflector satellites to direct and 
concentrate the light of the sun upon the site of the battle. They also fight 
the hurricane with their techno-magical aircraft, and finally, they dropped 
a handful of Hellstorm neutron bombs - 
magically enhanced nuclear 
devices - 
on the battlefield. 
The battle with the three Cathayans weakened the Antediluvian. 
Though the nearby nuclear detonations kills the bodhisattvas as well as all 
other beings in the area, it further weakens the Antediluvian enough that 
when the clouds part, the light of four suns, reflected by the satellites above, 
shine down and obliterate it. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Across the world, the nightmares and visions continue, though 
throughout the battle, the visions tell of the strange and terrible fight 
rather than just warning of the awakening of the Antediluvian. All 
vampires continue to feel irritable. In addition to the global effects, all 
Ravnos experience a sympathetic accord with their progenitor’s anger and 
power. They find their mastery of Chimerstry to be both more powerful and 
less predictable. Additionally, the Beast is stronger within them, making 
them more prone to frenzy. 
A C T  T H R E E :  THE EOURTH T H R O U C ~ H  
SEVENTH 
NIGHTS 
The Antediluvian dies early in the morning on the fourth day - 
near 
sunset in Europe, in the middle of the day in the Americas. The hurricane 
over Bangladesh dissipates, and rescue and recovery operations begin. For 
most creatures, the world seems to return to normal: Those who are 
trapped in visions abruptly recover, and the unnatural nightmares fade 
into the past. 
For the Ravnos, the horror has just begun. Each Ravnos hears the 
death cry of the Antediluvian, full of wrath and hunger. The creature’s 
final act before it meets its Final Death is to send a command to all its 
childer to hunt each other down and destroy each other, purging the 
world of all its progeny. This affects all Ravnos, regardless of sect 
affiliation, blood bonds, Vaulderie, torpor or any other conditions. In 
areas where there is only a solitary Ravnos, that vampire need only 
contend with the unnatural hunger, but should one Ravnos meet 
another, each is consumed by an overwhelming, cannibalistic bloodlust 
and attacks on sight. Over the next three nights, the Ravnos slay each 
other, and then the curse abruptly fades away, leaving confusion, 
suspicion and very few Ravnos. 
T H E  EPILOC~UE 
Three days after the Final Death of the Ravnos Antediluvian, the last 
of the mystical effects of the Week of Nightmares fade. The surviving 
Ravnos lose their abnormal bloodlust. Most Kindred return to unlife as 
usual, though some, those who have an inkling of understanding of the 
events and those who realize that they do not, find reason to question the 
validity of the status quo. 
All told, the Week of Nightmares racks up quite a body count: The 
Ravnos Antediluvian and three of the most powerful Cathayans are 
the most noteworthy casualties. Over a million mortals and uncounted 
supernatural beings in Bangladesh die from the hurricane, the battle 
and the Technocracy’s Hellstorm devices, though the supernatural 
nature of these events is quickly covered up. Beyond Bangladesh, most 
of Clan Ravnos fall prey to each other following the dying curse of 
their ancestor - 
by the end of the week, there are perhaps a hundred 
Ravnos left in the world, none of whom are elders. All of this happened 
when a single Antediluvian rose. The question remains: What might 
happen when the rest awaken? 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


WHAT HAPPENS 
ONSTAC~E 
The events of the Week of Nightmares are of such mystical gravity that 
they are felt across the globe in one form or another. This section offers 
systems for letting these effects manifest in a chronicle. 
T H E  E I R S T A N D  SECOND 
N I C ~ H T S  
During this period, everyone is on edge. Handle this as you feel is 
necessary for your vision of the Week of Nightmares. If you want the 
effects to be more subtle, perhaps rule that vampires do not receive any 
special penalties due to their edginess, but these feelings should be 
roleplayed - 
which may lead to more situations where Virtue Tests are 
called for more than usual. Particularly harsh Storytellers may rule that 
all characters have gained the Nightmares Flaw (Laws of the Night 
Revised, p. 117), imposing a one-Trait penalty on all characters for all 
challenges. Even if the penalties seem to cancel out for most non-Static 
Challenges, you might rule that all characters must bid at least two 
Traits in order to have a chance of winning. As the price of losing rises, 
everyone gets more desperate. 
Additionally, Kindred or mortals who possess a Merit such as Oracular 
Ability or at least three derangements experience involuntary visions of the 
awakening of the Antediluvian and its call to its childer and grandchilder. 
Freeing oneself from these visions requires expending a Willpower Trait, 
and even then, this freedom only lasts for a scene as the psychic pressure 
from this cataclysm is too powerful to be held back for too long. The 
possession of Auspex has no effect on these visions, and Malkavians gain no 
special insight into this matter or likelihood of experiencing visions through 
their brand of insanity. 
T H E  T H I R D  
N I G H T  
For most beings, the third night is the same as the first two: Unease for 
most, overwhelming visions for the few. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Ravnos, on the other hand, all receive three extra levels of Chimerstry 
for the duration of the battle. These levels may ignore generational limits 
as the forces the Antediluvian calls forth alter the rules of the game for all 
its childer. You may also increase or decrease the difficulty of any uses of 
Chirnerstry to reflect the changingfortunes of the battle. At the beginning 
of each scene, you may decide to assign from one to five bonus or penalty 
Traits to any use of Chimerstry. 
Additionally, the Ravnos suffer a one-Trait penalty in all Virtue Tests. 
Finally, should a Ravnos frenzy during this time, he need not expend any 
Willpower to use any of his Chimerstry powers. 
T H E  
E O U R T H T H R O U ~ H  
SEVENTH 
N I ~ H T S :  
For most vampires, everything seems to return to normal. The edginess 
fades, the visions go away. Vampires can concentrate on their usual problems. 
For the Ravnos, things get worse. With the death of the Antedilu- 
vian, each Ravnos must make a successful Self-Control/Instinct Static 
Challenge or enter a cannibalistic frenzy. Ravnos of 12th generation or 
greater make the test at a difficulty of two Traits; Ravnos of 1 l t h  to 
eighth generation make it at a difficulty of three Traits; and those of the 
Seventh Generation or lower perform it at four Traits. The vampire 
must make this test each time she awakens and each time she encounters 
another Ravnos - 
this thirst is not affected by any form of disguise or 
not knowing the other Ravnos’ clan. The Blood knows who is Ravnos, 
and that is enough. 
CRITICAL 
ANALYSIS 
So the Ravnos Antediluvian awoke, had a fight and met its Final Death 
two continents away. How does this affect a specific, active chronicle? 
Ultimately, the answer depends on you the Storyteller and the 
nature of the chronicle you’re running. If you and the players are 
getting enough enjoyment and drama out of nepotistic politics, back- 
stabbing and the night-to-night trials and tribulations of maintaining 
the Masquerade, jockeying for position in their home city or wiping 
out the Camarila sissy-boys, then you may want to think twice about 
adding a complication as large as this one. If the chronicle is moving 
smoothly - from your perspective, not necessarily the players’ - 
along some great story arc toward a major revelation of your own 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


devising, you probably don’t want to toss this new element into the 
mix - 
at least not yet. O n  the other hand, if the chronicle is just 
coming out of a major story arc and you’re looking for a something new 
to shake your players out of their self-congratulatory (or self-pitying, 
depending on how they fared) denouement, this could be what you 
want. The Week of Nightmares adds to the mythic dimension of the 
vampiric experience, and if you want to see that facet of unlife 
enhanced, the Week of Nightmares could offer a rewardingly ominous 
portent of things to come. And it may be just what you need if you want 
to remind your players that it is a World of Darkness, not just a City of 
Darkness or if you just want to throw some chaos into one or two of 
your elders’ carefully laid plans. 
One other point to consider is the potentially fatal effect of the Week 
of Nightmares on any Ravnos in the chronicle. Laws of the Night Revised 
(p. 55) includes an explicit warning of the tenuous situation of the 
Ravnos, though it treats the Week of Nightmares as already having 
passed. And, of course, if the chronicle’s timeline presumes that these 
events have already occurred, it’s unlikely that they will happen again. 
Careful Storytellers may want to reflect on the plight of any Ravnos they 
have in the chronicle before they commit themselves to the Week of 
Nightmares -or 
they may want to set the carnage in motion and let the 
cards fall where they may. 
Despite all these warnings and caveats, incorporating the Week of 
Nightmares into a chronicle can be a very rewarding experience for a skilled 
and ambitious Storyteller. Rather than present a precise recipe for telling this 
story, this section examines some of the situations and their potential effects 
on a Mind’s Eye Theatre chronicle 
Official World of Darkness canon places the Week of Nightmares in 
July 1999, and all subsequent sourcebooks reflect that chronology. 
Unless the chronicle has not caught up to the present or you feel the 
need to run a flashback adventure, you’ll probably want to adjust the 
time to bring it into line with your own chronicle. In most cases, there 
will be no serious repercussions to doing this; however, you might need 
to coordinate with the Storytellers of any other groups your troupe 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


interacts with to see that any possible conflicts in storyline are as 
seamless as possible. 
In general, it is more important that you time the Week of Nightmares 
to fit well into the chronicle. I t  should not arbitrarily steal the thunder 
from a player who is trying to accomplish something, though it may be 
used to knock down a character whose self-importance or hubris has 
gotten out of hand. Under most circumstances, it should not be inter- 
jected at a time of extreme confusion - 
unless you’re looking to create an 
atmosphere of extreme pandemonium. In the end, the decision of the 
timing of the Week of Nightmares has to be left in the hands of the 
Storyteller; you knows the chronicle’s direction, the troupe and how they 
work together best, after all. 
U P T O T H E  
K N E E S O R  U P T O T H E  
THROAT? 
So you decided to incorporate the Week of Nightmares into your 
chronicle. All right, then - 
the first thing you need to determine is how 
deeply it will affect your city, or whatever the setting of your chronicle is. 
If there are no Ravnos nearby, no one consults the oracles regularly, and 
no one pays any attention to the rantings of the local asylum inmates and 
street people, your entire troupe could get through the Week itself with only 
a little tension and a bit more bickering. This does not mean that they escaped 
the long-term effects of the Week, only that they missed out on the opening 
salvo. If, at the opposite extreme, the city has an enclave of Ravnos, a chantry 
of oracular Noddist scholars and a cunning Malkavian who takes his institu- 
tionalized comrades very seriously, the prince and the Storyteller will have a 
lot on their hands. 
In addition to the universal edginess, there are a few obvious 
areas where the events of the Week of Nightmares could directly 
affect the Kindred of any given city. All vampires, supernatural 
beings and mortals will be edgy from the nightmares and the psychic 
fallout from the rising of the Antediluvian, but in many locations 
there will be other, more noticeable symptoms. First, and most 
obviously, come the Ravnos. If there are Ravnos in the city, or a 
neighboring city, the Kindred will probably hear of or experience at 
least some of the side effects of the Antediluvian’s wrath firsthand. 
The second prominent phenomenon is the eruption of spontaneous 
visions among any who have any sort of sensitivity to the winds of 
fate. This can range from an prophesying Tremere primogen to 
Kindred who notice that a lot of the local crazies are spouting the 
same gibberish. Next there are Contacts, Allies and areas of influence 
who may provide information that something peculiar is going on 
and call for a second opinion. Finally, there is the mundane media in 
all its glory, feeding the characters local color, red herrings and a 
skewed view of the big picture. Each of these can contribute, detract 
or confuse the experience of the Week of Nightmares in a chronicle, 
depending on how you employ them and how much they come into 
play in the chronicle’s city. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Though it is not apparent early on, the Ravnos are the stars of the 
local drama during the Week of Nightmares. Whether there are 
Ravnos, and how many are present if there are, will have a major 
impact on how the Week plays out. Without them, it may come across 
as a spooky interlude where some Kindred began speaking in tongues 
and evoking bizarre imagery. If there is but a single Ravnos, it may 
appear that the stress of the week got the better of him, making him 
even less rational than usual. Though that’s not entirely unexpected, 
the Ravnos always have been a little less than civilized, after all. If 
there are more than one Ravnos in the city, you can expect to have 
a battle on your hands. They may have been the closest of compadres 
(when they weren’t stabbing each other in the back), but the force of 
the Antediluvian’s dying curse will set them at each others’ throats 
- 
literally. Expect fatalities. By the end of the Week of Nightmares, 
there will likely be at most one Ravnos in the city; having no 
survivors of that doomed clan is also a possibility. Even if Ravnos 
survive, they will likely have earned the prince’s wrath, almost 
certainly by breaking the Masquerade in their bloodlust, possibly 
even through diablerie. Once the Week of Nightmares begins, the 
Storyteller has to accept that all the Ravnos in her chronicle will 
probably have very short unlives. 
The next area of impact is those creatures and people who have 
some level of psychic sensitivity. You have full power to determine 
who is affected by the psychic turmoil and who is not. In general 
terms, any and all oracular beings will find themselves fully in the 
thrall of the visions. Even if there is no vampire blessed (or cursed) 
with oracular powers in the city, those who are less in tune with 
consensual reality may find themselves tapping into the situation in 
Bangladesh. Many of the city’s insane, whether in asylums or on the 
streets will rant about the events. Alarmingly, there will always be a 
few people who had seemed completely normal who will start speak- 
ing of the tiger preparing to strike the ten-headed king. At your 
discretion, certain drugs may put the user in touch with the battle; 
this could certainly get the attention of any Setites in the city. Such 
means are probably untrustworthy and confusing, though, even more 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


so than the “regular” auguries. You might also want to give any 
Ravnos a better chance to receive the visions, or to have such visions 
manifested in spontaneous eruptions of Chimerstry - even more 
deadly during the phase when their powers are enhanced. 
Remember that Auspexdoes not allow any special insight into these 
events. The thaumaturgical Path of Spirit Manipulation may grant some 
information from whatever spirits the thaumaturge can reach, but such 
information is likely to be every bit as confusing as that coming from the 
people experiencing visions. If you feel it’s necessary, you might allow 
some thaumaturgical rituals to shed a little light on what is going on - 
or you may rule that the all-but forgotten ritual in question requires 
eight nights of preparation, by which time there is nothing happening 
to spy on.... Malkavians do not gain any particular understanding either 
-they may be subject to the visions if they meet the three derangement 
requirement, but the forces the Ravnos Antediluvian calls into play are 
not the same as the madness of the Malkavians. They are as much in the 
dark as the other clans. 
The third place these events may manifest is through allies and 
contacts the characters may have. Even if there are no Ravnos in the 
chronicle and no one happens to qualify for visions, there is a good 
chance that someone in the chronicle will have contact with someone 
who has gotten a closer look at all the weird shit that is happening. 
Mentors may express a sudden, uncharacteristic interest in what is 
happening on the streets. Allies may contact the players with questions 
of their own. Contacts may report bizarre events, or become the source 
of such reports. Quick checks into the character’s areas of Influence may 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


reveal bizarre trends. In most cases, this will be the first indication the 
characters have that the weirdness is not another local event - 
another 
case of the Tremere botching a ritual or some remarkably potent act of 
Dementation. It is up to you to what degree the characters’ contacts will 
be affected by the Week of Nightmares, but it is safe to say that the 
greater the number of social backgrounds the character has, the broader 
her source of information. 
Vampires with higher levels of Influence are more likely to encounter 
more alarming, and more informative, reports. In general, characters who 
have Backgrounds of level four and below will only hear about odd local 
occurrences, and only if they specify that they are keeping an eye out. At 
levels greater than that, the character may receive information from a 
commensurately larger spectrum of sources. 
You may want to consider the sort of information that comes from 
the different backgrounds. You may decide that the only information 
having Political Influence 8 offers is that the UN is trying to get relief to 
Bangladesh, but the weather has frustrated them so far, or you may 
decide that Political Influence 8 reveals that the President’s astrologer is 
muttering about cranes and dragons just like the neonate who made such 
a mess in Elysium last night. In all likelihood, you’ll want to tailor the 
release of information for maximum impact and drama. A clever Story- 
teller can tailor the release of information to thrust different characters 
into the limelight or create some of those strange bedfellows politics is 
supposed to make. Perhaps all the Noddist scholar’s Occult contacts are 
too busy with or confused by these developments to provide anything 
useful, but there are a couple of High Society performance artists who are 
astonishing the Toreador with their synchronized ranting. Almost any 
Background offers the potential to produce information, though the 
quality of information should vary dramatically. Bureaucracy Influence 
may tell the character that calls to counseling hot lines were up 23 
percent across the tri-state area, but might not offer any relevant details. 
Occult, Health, Church, Media and Street Influences are likely to provide 
the most appropriate intelligence because of their proximity to the 
unusual and the marginalized, who tend to be more aware of such things. 
Each area brings with it its own skewing of the data, and that skewing is 
vital to maintaining the sense of mystery. 
The final likely source of information on these events is the 
mortal media. Though hardly as useful as having a man on the scene, 
for those who do not have allies in Dresden and Influence that spans 
the globe, the media is often the only source of information on world 
events. In this case, the coverage may well be limited to the occa- 
sional mention of the unusual typhoon over India - 
probably hidden 
in the weather section - 
or a human-interest story about a new artist 
whose works on the Ten-Headed God and the Crane are causing a 
minor sensation in Des Moines. But that is only the mainstream 
media, which has traditionally been shaped to maintain the Mas- 
querade; there are other sources out there for those who know to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


look. Small-press and alternative newspapers provide one source, but 
they rarely have the larger perspective. The Internet is erratic at best, 
but it is always possible that there is a Web site out there containing 
a lone programmer’s complete selection of visions. As before, the 
accuracy, availability and prevalence of this information depends 
upon your needs and your chronicle’s needs. 
T H E  
V I E W P R O M T H E  
~ A L L E R Y A N D T H E  V I E W P R O M T H E  
PIT 
The next aspect to consider is how the players (and characters) 
receive their information. Unlike the previous section, which looked at 
the source of the information in the game world, this section examines 
the dissemination of the information from Storyteller to player. Much of 
the experience of the Week of Nightmares will depend on whether the 
characters feel that they are at the epicenter of another local crisis or 
experiencing fallout from some far larger event. Depending on how the 
storyteller plays it, it is even possible that many of the characters will 
perceive some of the events as a personal attack. Vampires - and 
players - 
are a paranoid lot, after all. 
If you favor a paranoid chronicle, full of mystery and suspicion, you 
might want to tell each character separately that they feel a little more 
anxious and irritable than usual for no reason that they can put their 
finger on. This will probably have each character wondering which of 
her enemies and rivals has found a subtle method of getting at her and 
will probably start a series of quarrels before it becomes apparent that 
something is bothering everybody. O n  the other hand, if you want the 
players to start out with an idea that they are under the influence of 
something larger, you could tell the troupe as a whole that they are 
suffering from high levels of hostility and anxiety. This will likely let 
them bypass the someone-is-out-to-get-me stage and start out wonder- 
ing what has happened to the city. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


There is also the matter of those in the throes of the visions. If 
O’Malley the Oracle is in the middle of Elysium when the Antedilu- 
vian awakes, everyone present will know that something is happening, 
even if they do not know what. If the only folks in the thrall of the 
visions are locked in padded cells, then only the Malkavians are likely 
to find out - 
and only when they check in. Of course, since the exact 
time of the awakening is up to you, you can place it when it best suits 
your needs. 
From there, it is a matter of pacing. You have it within your power to 
shape the availability, reliability and timing of the information the charac- 
ters receive, as outlined above. If the chronicle is to focus on disinformation 
and plotting, there is ample opportunity for some of the characters to start 
publicizing false visions and red herrings they wish while they secretly look 
for the truth on their own. After all, the rising of Antediluvians is strictly 
against Camarilla policy, and no prince wants his subjects listening to such 
balderdash. On the other extreme, if the chronicle revolves around trading 
secrets and solving puzzles, you can arrange it that the truth really is out 
there if every one puts it together. This is also the time to consider whether 
the characters should be fearing the arrival of Gehenna here and now or 
completely underestimate how dire the situation truly is, only later realizing 
what has hit the fan. 
Once the Ravnos begin frenzying and going after each other’s blood, 
things take a different turn. In the Americas, this will happen during the day 
(unless you decides otherwise), so it is unlikely that there will be anyone 
around to realize that they lost it just as all those ranting folks broke free of 
their trances. 
No matter how you want the chronicle to go, you should consider how 
you introduce the events to your players. A little advance scheming can go a 
long way toward establishing a desirable feel for the events and keeping the 
players in the proper frame of mind. 
PITYTHE 
POOR 
RAVNOS 
If there is only a single Ravnos in the chronicle, you could theoretically 
get away with merely the intense hunger, no insane diablerie of clanmates, 
but that would weaken the strength of the story significantly. Additionally, 
the power of the hunger is such that a Ravnos would easily feel the urge to 
travel far and wide to any havens of clanmates he knew of - 
and if he did 
not, it is always possible that another Ravnos would come after him. So even 
the solitary Ravnos who manages not to do something regrettable due to the 
hunger could fall prey to the dying curse of his Antediluvian. And if there 
is more than a single Ravnos present, it is almost guaranteed that at best, 
only one will survive. 
What is a Storyteller to do when her chronicle has three Ravnos, and the 
Week ofNightmares will leave at most one of them standing? While the death 
of a character should never be a trivial event, the emotional response to it 
often extends from the dramatic response within the game to hard feelings 
outside the game. This can be especially true in cases such as the Week of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Nightmares where events may seem arbitrarily stacked against a certain group 
of characters - 
Ravnos in this case. 
Another matter you must consider is whether to give the players 
foreshadowing about the deadliness of the situation. This is especially 
true in a situation like the Week of Nightmares, where fatalities are 
almost guaranteed in one segment of the vampiric population while the 
rest face only a marginal increase in their usual nightly danger. This is 
a case of deciding what knowledge the player can handle without 
adversely affecting his role in the chronicle. In some cases it is best to tell 
the player outright that his character stands a good chance of experienc- 
ing Final Death in the next couple of sessions. In others, it is better to 
keep it all under wraps but be prepared for damage control when heads 
start to roll. If you don’t want to tell the players outright that “there can 
be only one,’’ another option is to offer some sort of vision. This vision 
need not be one of the overpowering visions of the Ten-Headed King 
that will become so common during the Week of Nightmares, but a 
smaller, more intensely personal vision. If played properly, the character 
might not even realize when the vision is coming to pass until the week 
is well under way. 
As with so many situations, the proper handling depends upon the 
players and the Storyteller. Below are a few ways of handling this dilemma, 
which can be used or combined as you see fit: 
Let the cards fall where they may: Mind’s Eye Theatre 
chronicles take place in the World of Darkness, where life is cheap, 
and so is unlife - 
even immortality does not last forever. You could 
argue that experiencing the unfairness inherent in the system is a 
part of the dramatic process and elect not to cushion the blow in any 
way. A player who lost her Ravnos to the Week of Nightmares is just 
like any other player who lost a character. This is probably accept- 
able to players who enjoy making new characters or those who truly 
see their characters as subservient to the story. Others may feel 
railroaded into a Final Death they could have avoided had they 
chosen a different clan. 
Ravnos Death Match: Perhaps even more vicious, you could warn 
the Ravnos’ players that only one of them will survive an upcoming 
event. This should only be employed with players who are willing to 
compete strongly with each other and will not take losing poorly, 
either inside or outside the game. I t  is quite possible that the players 
will suspect the nature of the upcoming storyline. Hopefully they can 
be convinced to keep their speculations under wraps, both for the sake 
of the other players and because such knowledge could help them in 
the coming fight against one another. This option should only be used 
if you believe that this level of mutual antagonism would not trauma- 
tize any of the players involved. 
All things being equal (and they rarely are), you will likely be able to 
guess who, of a group of Ravnos, will come out on top. In most cases it will be 
the one with the lowest generation, but it might be the oldestor the best knife- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


fighter or the one who runs with the Brujah pack. In any case, unless some of 
the players are willing to take the fall for the sake of the story, it is almost 
guaranteed to be a bad idea to play favorites or try to arrange for a certain 
Ravnos’ victory over the others. 
The Dramatic Exit: Another possible solution involves recruiting 
the players to take an active role in their characters’ demise. When faced 
with the certainty of character death, many players will rise to the 
occasion and make certain that the death will be one that is remembered 
for years. If you believe you have a player who can handle the responsibil- 
ity, this can be the most rewarding way of handling the situation. With 
this option, the player can come to see the story as not just a story about 
unlife in an unfair world, but the epic saga of her demise - 
and a chance 
to “inadvertently” leave her comrades in deep trouble as they must clean 
up whatever mess her death caused. 
The Consolation Prize: Some players are unwilling to take the death 
of their characters quietly. For some of them, they have invested too much 
into the character to willingly let it go; others are just munchkins. It may be 
necessary to offer them some sort of consolation prize, a bribe, to do what 
other players do freely. This prize usually takes the form of special treatment 
for his next character: “If you don’t create a big stink about dying, I’ll let you 
play the Camarilla mole you wanted to play.” It usually sets a dangerous 
precedent to offer bribes in these cases, but if the player is worth it overall, 
or if you want to reward a player who did not ask for compensation but 
played her death well, do so. Just remember that future fatalities may expect 
similar treatment. 
The Plant: If there are no Ravnos in the chronicle, or if you feel that 
the current number of Ravnos is inadequate for the task, there may be 
another solution. If you have a spare player or aNarrator who has wanted 
to just play a single character for a while, you may introduce more 
Ravnos into the chronicle for the sole purpose of enhancing the expe- 
rience of the Week of Nightmares. Any Ravnos brought in for this 
purpose should be warned that their stay will be rather brief, but some 
players enjoy playing marginal characters to whom they need not feel 
any real attachment. The introduction of these characters needs to be 
carefully managed so it is not obvious that they are only being brought 
in to add to the body count. 
A E T E R T H E  
SHOW 
It is possible that the Week of Nightmares will come and go before the 
players in the chronicle have figured out what is happening - 
quite likely in 
fact - 
unless someone has friends in very high places. Fortunately, the long- 
term effects of the waking of the Antediluvian are more than enough to make 
those nights come back and haunt everyone. 
E P I L O C ~ U E  
EVENTS 
You the Storyteller have quite a menu of tricks and events you can use 
to drive home the long-term implications in the aftermath of the Week of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Nightmares. Whether you deploy these according to a precise schedule you 
prepared in advance, interject them on an ad hoc basis where you feel the 
chronicle could benefit or ignore them completely depends on your designs 
for the chronicle. Used properly, these elements can make the Week of 
Nightmares a dire portent of things to come or a call for planning and 
action; used improperly, they add little more than chaos to an already 
confused situation. 
Rumors from Near and Far: Regardless of the state of the home city 
of the chronicle, rumors filter in from neighboring cities as soon as the 
lines of communication permit. It could come from the mouths of ghoul 
couriers, secret IRC chat rooms, hushed phone calls, solemn board 
meetings or any of the hundreds of ways vampires have discovered for 
communicating with each other. 
It is safe to say that the earliest rumors will be the most confused 
and incoherent, but they will also be the least touched by the “official 
version” of whoever controls the source. As time passes, princes and 
bishops will establish “what really happened” in their domains. You 
might want to use this as a way of illustrating the mood of the various 
locations that surround the home city, stressing whichever aspects you 
find most interesting. Alternatively, you might use the similarity of 
reports from wide-ranging places to impress upon the characters the 
universality of their experience. As time progresses, the quality of 
what is reported from Sabbat and Camarilla territories will probably 
diverge, and if the characters have access to information across sect 
lines, you can use this information to highlight the strengths and 
weaknesses of the sects in your chronicle. You may also use it to 
foreshadow power plays or larger changes in sect direction. Though 
most rumors are just clues or distractions, each one could be a seed for 
some future development in the chronicle. 
As time progresses, the stories will probably diverge in three 
directions: the urban legend, the official story and the carefully re- 
searched truth. Telling one from the other will, of course, be difficult. 
Of these, the urban legend is probably the most entertaining - 
that is 
why such stories are so enduring. The story of the Ravnos in Glasgow 
who somehow grew 10 heads and vowed that she would diablerize a 
different vampire with each head and was seen by a Nosferatu only one 
city away is the sort of tale that could terrorize a neonate. It also 
contains just that hint of what went on to almost have the resonance 
of truth. Besides, the World of Darkness is a big place, and stranger 
things have happened .... Other rumors may take the form of con- 
spiracy theories, difficult to disprove, seductively plausible, and pointing 
toward the creator’s scapegoat of choice. At the other end of the 
spectrum, the official story is probably far less entertaining, but it is 
also probably a little more comforting. For both Camarilla and Sabbat 
vampires, their respective official stories will justify what they are 
doing and remind them that they are on the right track - leaders 
almost always justify the status quo. Naturally, the official story makes 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sense and cover most of the known facts. Conspiracy theories may be 
popular among the purveyors of official truth as well, so long as their 
enemies are at the core of the conspiracy. To do otherwise runs the 
unpleasant risk that the underlings will figure out that their masters 
are lying, which often has inconvenient consequences. Finally, rarest 
of the rare, there will be those vampires who manage to figure out some 
of the truth and carefully spread it to those they feel deserving. As any 
Storyteller knows, there is nothing like the select reporting of accurate 
information to keep everyone guessing. 
Camarilla Denial: Clearly it was a massive hoax. Or it was a bizarre 
form of lunacy caused by those thrice-accursed Lupines. Or it was 
nothing at all. 
Camarilla doctrine denies the existence of the Antediluvians and 
specifically denies that they are going to rise from their torpid slumber and 
devour all of their descendants. So how does the largest organization of 
Kindred on the Earth handle the Week of Nightmares? By denying it, of 
course. Accepting that an Antediluvian stalked the Indian subcontinent 
and was able to affect vampires around the world is just too close to Sabbat 
doctrine. Some princes will offer their own reasonable explanations for 
the strangeness. Some princes will recognize that there is strength - 
and 
plausibility- 
in numbers and form a united front of disinformation. Some 
princes will simply claim that what happened was not at all out of the 
ordinary. Some of them might actually believe these lies, but many will 
only be using them to pacify their charges while they frantically attempt 
to come up with some plan to allow their surviving a Gehenna that now 
seems all too close. 
This dichotomy between what happened and what is said to have 
happened could result in some serious changes in the night-to-night 
operation of the city. Anyone who publicly argues that an Antediluvian did 
awaken is just asking for correction of one sort or another, and a prince who 
is unable to keep such blatant lies at bay might find his city visited by an 
archon. At the same time the lesser Kindred are being kept in the dark, or 
at least being kept quiet, anyone in the know has motive to hunt down 
whatever lore she can find. Also, fragments of the Book of Nod and scholars 
thereof stand to become even more valuable, so long as they can keep their 
knowledge from falling into the wrong ears. 
Many of the city’s lesser Kindred may know that something has hap- 
pened, but not what. Even a few months of unlife should warn vampires that 
the elders are not entirely concerned with their well-being and that there are 
enough secrets floating about that it is best to try to unearth the truth before 
it comes after you with fangs and claws. And if the elders are not offering any 
answers, it is time to look for someone who is. 
Sabbat Propaganda: Naturally, the Sabbat wants the word out: The 
Antediluvians are real. We were right. 
It is never that straightforward, though, even among the Sabbat, 
who are often stereotyped as simpler than other vampires. While certain 
leaders will want to take this opportunity to gain as many converts as 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


possible, by whatever means possible, others will want to whip their 
troops into a battle frenzy and wipe out all the other vampires who might 
be potential pawns of the Antediluvians. And of course, there will be 
those who knew all along, but wish that Gehenna could have held out 
just a bit longer so they could have seen their plans to fruition. Sabbat 
politics are fractious enough without the added pressure of Gehenna 
starting ahead of schedule. In theory, all Sabbat agree that the 
Antediluvians must be destroyed, but no one seems to agree on who 
should lead the forces. 
Much like the Camarilla, the various leaders of the Sabbat will be 
doing their best to see that the rabble is kept occupied while they try to 
figure out how best to turn this situation to their advantage. The 
ambitious will need to act with greater speed, and the wary will need to 
use even greater caution. Noddist scholars will almost certainly collabo- 
rate, debate and fight with eachother. Afew will share their information, 
seeking to unravel the truth before it is too late. Others will hoard their 
hard-won knowledge lest it be used against them now that all vampires’ 
nights are numbered. 
Among the lower echelons, priests who craft new ritae taking the events of 
the Week of Nightmares into account may find that they have gained greater 
renown. Pack leaders who lack greater vision will keep their packmates in fighting 
form - 
and try to find a couple good places to hide if it becomes necessary. 
Independent Curiosity: Perhaps more than any other vampires, the 
independent clans want to know exactly what happened. In addition to 
those surviving Ravnos, the four remaining independent clans need to 
determine what is happening and what they can do to protect themselves. 
In most cases, this will involve trying to get as much accurate information 
about the events of the Week of Nightmares as possible and to do 
whatever they can to protect themselves and increase their own power. It 
may involve spying on the other clans to see what they know or what they 
are planning. It may involve trying to create alliances in which neither 
side necessarily trusts the other. Feel free to use this opportunity to 
strengthen intra-clan ties or allow internal bickering to create chinks in 
a previously unified front. 
For the Assamites, the Week of Nightmares could not only repre- 
sent an inconvenience in fulfilling one of their contracts, it could force 
them to step up their efforts against the children of Khayyin. Luckily, 
the increased worries of other vampires should result in a commensurate 
raise in calls for their services. The Gangrel may be expected to retreat 
further into the wilderness - at least as well as they can given the 
Lupines - 
but they are a clan of individualists, so it would not be 
unexpected for one or two to be prowling around looking for answers or 
at least clues. Many independent Gangrel may retain loose ties to their 
clanmates within the Camarilla, so they may show up to exchange 
stories. The Gangrel and the Ravnos have stood against each other 
almost as long there were Gangrel and Ravnos clans. Gangrel may be 
interested in what happened to their rivals, especially if that rivalry was 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


personal; some will want to gloat and rejoice, others will be more curious 
and, naturally, there will be those who are furious that they were 
deprived of the chance to deal with them personally. Of course, some 
vampires may put two and two together and realize that this all hap- 
pened suspiciously soon after Clan Gangrel’s departure from the 
Camarilla: Clan Gangrel must be the instigators of all this madness. 
While the Giovanni would seem to be in the best position to obtain 
information about the Week of Nightmares using their wraithly connec- 
tions, those wraiths in a position to see what happened were all destroyed 
by the Technocracy’s hellstorm bombs. And though it would seem 
beneficial having their progenitor as one of the more active members of 
the Third Generation, rumors about the Harbingers of Skulls are enough 
to keep Giovanni on their toes. It is only natural that the Followers of 
Set would want to use this opportunity to extend their influence over 
the rest. A confused situation where powerful people want hard-to-find 
information is a potential windfall for those who have information to 
offer. It need not be accurate information, of course, just enough to 
encourage dependence or cement an alliance. And while they are 
offering information to those who crave it, the Setites will be seeking 
the truth for themselves, not that they would ever admit it. 
In many ways, the plight of the independents is a more honest 
reaction to the Week of Nightmares than the reactions of the Camarilla 
and Sabbat. You can use these reactions as a sort of reality check against 
the actions of the grand sects, you can use them as extra boogeymen to 
further confuse things, or you can just ignore them and concentrate on 
the clans at hand. 
Backlash against the Remaining Ravnos: The Ravnos, like all vampires, 
have made many enemies. They have had a reputation as annoying bastards 
for millennia, and spending a night with more mystic power than usual 
followed by half a week of bloodthirsty fratricide has probably not improved 
public opinion. Some might even blame the entire Week of Nightmares on 
the Ravnos: They were the most active during it, after all. In the past, 
individual Ravnos had the protection of their clan. If a prince gave one 
Ravnos too much grief, he would soon find that he had more Ravnos dropping 
by than he could handle. 
Unfortunately for the Ravnos, it will not take long after the Week of 
Nightmares for people to figure out that there are far fewer Ravnos around 
than there used to be. And once that happens, some vampires’ thoughts 
will turn to revenge. The Ravnos who wronged that particular vampire 
might be long dead, but there are always those who will see any clanmate 
as an acceptable substitute. Fortunately for the Ravnos, it will take a while 
for most vampires to figure out how complete the devastation is. The 
Ravnos have never been popular, so many of them have learned to lie 
about their heritage. Of course, others just lied for the hell of it. Still, 
eventually someone will realize how few Ravnos there are, and the word 
will spread, and vampires will do what they always have done for the 
underdog - 
eat him. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Some princes or bishops may treat the Ravnos as lepers, others may 
use them as scapegoats for whatever ails their domains and some may 
claim to not care but secretly encourage their removal. One or two may 
even take the opposite approach, offering sanctuary to a particular 
Ravnos, perhaps any of the clan. After all, it is always useful to have a 
subject with rare abilities, and the danger outside may actually encour- 
age loyalty in an otherwise treacherous vampire. Some may even have a 
particular use for a vampire whose Antediluvian has been annihilated. 
Regardless of how things work out in the chronicle’s main city, you may 
employ the other scenarios at will for neighboring cities or other areas 
the players visit. 
The Search for Information: It will not take long for many 
vampires to decide that they need more information. In and of itself, 
this is not a new development. What will be new is that a large number 
of vampires will actively be searching for ancient lore for the first time 
in their unlives, a situation that opens a world of possibilities for a 
cunning Storyteller. 
One of the most obvious developments from this turn of events is 
that vampires who possess such arcane knowledge - 
or are able to 
convince others that they do - 
will find a marked increase in their 
perceived importance. They may be courted by princes and primogen, 
bishops and paladins. Some may find this attention and importance 
seductive, a way to social power that they previously lacked, others 
may find that it gets in the way of their studies. There will be those who 
believe they know the truth, but only know false tales spread by others 
who did not want competition in their quest for knowledge. And, of 
course, there will be the charlatans who are adept at sounding pro- 
found and producing forgeries that tell their audience what they most 
want to hear. Vampires are not the only creatures that will seek to 
profit from this situation; there is no shortage of demons that are more 
than willing to offer information - 
accurate or not - 
to those who are 
willing to pay the price. 
Beyond the active players, is the information itself: moldy tomes, 
lost fragments of the Book of Nod, ancient manuscripts, recently un- 
earthed icons with strange writing and all such stuff will be in high 
demand. Depending on the needs of the chronicle - 
or the ingenuity of 
the players - 
these could be vital clues or simple McGuffins designed 
to keep the rabble busy. 
Gehenna Cults: For centuries, some vampires have believed that the 
key to surviving Gehenna lies not in universal camaraderie and blind 
acceptance of leadership, but in secrecy and selective solidarity. Some of 
these secret societies are new developments, spawned by the apparent 
approach of Gehenna; others are centuries, perhaps even millennia old. 
Some have members who span the globe; others are strictly local affairs. 
Some seek to avert Gehenna entirely, others seek defense against the 
Antediluvians, still others seek to curry favor with these ancient crea- 
tures. Some exist only within a given sect, others have members who cross 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sects. Though most have a tiny membership, the only common element 
among Gehenna cults is a covert plan for the members to survive the 
impending doom in some way. 
There are two obvious reasons for the aftermath of the Week of 
Nightmares to involve Gehenna cults. The first is that many of the 
established cults (See Time of Thin Blood, pp. 55-60 for some of the more 
prominent Gehenna cults) will perceive this as a sign that Gehenna is 
nigh and will be very interested in those who seem more involved with 
these events. Some might take an interest in those who were in the throes 
of visions or even the few surviving Ravnos. Whether this interest takes 
the form of observation, questioning, thaumaturgical experimentation or 
something else entirely depends on the nature of the cult and the 
desperation - 
or determination - 
of the vampires involved. The second 
form of Gehenna cult involvement occurs when someone takes the events 
of the Week of Nightmares to heart and decides to form her own cult. 
Unless the new cult had some special source of information and a great 
deal of subtlety, it is probably doomed to failure. The Camarilla disap- 
proves of Gehenna cults for doctrinal reasons, and the Sabbat does not 
want its members loyal to any organization other than itself. Even if it is 
not destroyed outright, a new cult stands a good chance of being infil- 
trated and used as a pawn. Those who are interested in what power and 
information the new cult has may monitor it for that reason while 
someone who is only interested in keeping track of the dissidents in the 
city could use it to gather the Noddists together for easier monitoring. 
THE 
SOLE SURVIVOR 
So there is still a Ravnos in the chronicle who did not meet Final Death? 
Even the surviving Ravnos are not in the clear. 
Three nights of blood thirst and fratricidal madness can do a lot 
to alienate wherever the survivor calls home. Even without the 
prohibitions against attacking vampires (and diablerie, should the 
Ravnos be in a Camarilla city) and drawing the attention of the 
mortals, raving madness is not a popular trait. A Ravnos may recover 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


from frenzy only to discover that she is the subject of a blood hunt or 
there is a Sabbat pack after her, angry about what she did to their 
packmate. And if the Ravnos committed diablerie, she may soon 
discover that others can tell merely by looking at her. In fact, if she 
was in the throes of frenzy while doing the deed, others may discover 
it before she does. 
Also, there is the lack of support. One of the benefits of belonging 
to a clan is that clanmates will look after their own. Ravnos never had 
the reputation as the most militant of clans, but other vampires were 
careful about harassing them too much because it could draw the wrath 
of the rest of the clan. Having a party of trickster vampires arrive in town 
because the prince killed one of their sisters was never a pleasant 
situation. With most of the clan gone, many vampires are looking to the 
survivors to redress old humiliations - 
others just think of it as open 
season on Ravnos for the fun of it. 
There are a few potential benefits to being a Ravnos who survived 
the Week of Nightmares, but they are limited at best. For example, it is 
possible that a Ravnos under the influence of the Antediluvian’s death 
curse might have managed to lower her generation during one of her 
frenzied binges. Sadly, the lack of elders of her clan to teach her the 
higher powers of Chimerstry will probably hinder her studying them. 
Another possible benefit is the reduced competition for herd space 
among the Gypsies. Unfortunately, many of the Roma are rather leery of 
anyone claiming to be Ravnos, especially after the stories of their three- 
night bout of madness and blood thirst. Additionally, the Gangrel, 
especially those who have left the Camarilla might be looking to move 
occupy these openings. Possibly the most useful development for the few 
survivors is the potential for anonymity. Ravnos are now so rare that 
almost no one will believe that the new Lick in town is from that lost 
clan. This leaves the stage open for as much fun as the vampire can get 
away with - 
until the work started by her Antediluvian gets taken up 
by the rest of the Third Generation. 
THE BLACK HAND 
When one imagines the organizations of the Kindred world, there are 
the Sabbat, the Camarilla, the mysterious Inconnu and those vampires 
who claim to stand outside all sect concerns, but in that act, are them- 
selves parceled into organization - 
the independent clans, the anarchs, 
the Autarkis. One, however, has fallen from the great heights of secrecy 
and self-claimed mastery into destruction and diaspora. The passing of the 
“True Black Hand” has reverberated through the Sabbat and into the 
World of Darkness itself. 
There are few certainties regarding the cult - 
after all, anything that 
has its origins in human prehistory must be clouded with supposition. 
Most cults rarely leave step-by-step instructions regarding their world 
domination plans. Even the survivors continue to sweep away their tracks 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


with rumor and legend. All that remains are fragments pieced together 
from the accounts of survivors, describing what is both horror unimagined 
and hubris unchecked. 
The True Black Hand was said to have sprung up in the ancient 
Middle East, long past the nights of the First and Second Cities, founded 
by a cult of mortal magicians studying death and the afterlife; some 
called this gathering the Tal’mahe’Ra. The early magicians made con- 
tact with Cainites, and the two groups traded knowledge, each attempting 
to understand the other’s craft, without success. Cainites could not learn 
mortal magic nor could the magicians learn Disciplines. In pursuit of 
knowledge, some of the magicians accepted the Embrace at the cost of 
their mortal gifts. As the new vampires learned more of the mythology 
behind their condition and shared their knowledge with their mortal 
brethren, the cult determined that the loss of the Antediluvians held 
back the world from its potential. Henceforth, the cult would bend its 
entire effort to the revival of the Third Generation, ushering in a new 
age of magical potential under the will of the Antediluvians. In modern 
parlance, the group would be considered a Gehenna cult, albeit one that 
had both mortal and vampiric followers. 
As so frequently happens, the Cainites gradually wrested control of the 
cult from the mortal magicians, turning the mortals to serve their own 
schemes. Around 500 BC, the magicians left and founded a society of their 
own devoted to the study of death and fate. Mortal descendants of these early 
wizards tell a vastly different tale of the society’s origins that makes no 
mention of a secret society of vampires; it would seem to be left to outsiders 
to judge which makes a better tale - 
vampires who prefer living in the 
Underworld or immortal mages who risk a magical backlash should they dwell 
in physical reality. 
With the cult’s composition and means altered to a Cainite perspective, 
the vampires expanded their studies, spreading into Europe. They were 
unsuccessful in learning the secrets of mortal blood-magicians, but did 
succeed in infiltrating mortal instutions. During this era, the cult’s masters of 
vampiric studies created new Disciplines exclusive to their ranks, which 
continued to evolve for several centuries to come. 
Around 450 AD, something happened that caused the Tal’mhe’Rah 
to fracture. Survivors debate the reasons for this, and everyone seems to 
have a particular theory regarding the hows and whys. Some blamed it 
on Setite influence, others on the Inconnu or on vampires who were too 
reluctant or eager for the group to study the Underworld. More outland- 
ish tales pointed to beings and intelligences from unknowable places 
that infiltrated the group. Whatever the reason, the cult split into the 
Western branch (which focused on mortal concerns) and the Eastern 
branch (which followed a more mystic bent). Somewhere around this 
time, the group’s Latin name, Manus Nigrum, came into use. As the 
internal squabbles resulted in more notice, victims and observers termed 
these half-glimpsed machinators “the Manus Nzgrum”. The name even- 
tually stuck. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


During the Middle Ages, the Manus Nigrum believed that it could 
prevent vampiric interference (other than its own, of course) of mortal 
organizations by strengthening those organizations. The results were not 
what was intended - 
the Inquisition did benefit from the organization and 
strength, turning its fury on those careless vampires found hiding in the midst 
of humanity. But it was only the youth (who posed little threat to the Manus 
Nigrum) that fed the flames; the elders, the original targets, proved more 
capable of escape. None in the cult paused to consider that the ensuing 
disaster could have been of their own making, or that their strategy was 
flawed. Instead, the leaders pressed on, blaming the events on enemies real 
and imagined, and apparently heedless that the vampires avoiding the 
slaughter were the ones who could most challenge the Manus Nigrum’s power 
and control over mortals. 
DOWN 
AMONGTHE 
DEAD 
M E N  
In between their attempts to direct the focus of the fire they had 
unleashed, the cult continued with its earlier pursuits into insights of death 
and magic. During an expedition into the Underworld of the dead, Manus 
Nigrum explorers encountered the memory of a city that they believed was the 
Enoch of legend, the First City founded by Caine. 
A word of explanation becomes necessary here. The Underworld is 
believed to stretch to infinity, below the surface, as it were, of the living 
lands. If one were to enter the deadlands, one would first encounter the 
Shadowlands, so called because they mirror the appearance of the living 
world (albeit through a darker reflection of death and decay). Below the 
Shadowlands boils the Tempest, a perpetually raging storm of spirit 
created from the debris of emotion and memory of the mortal world. 
Occasionally, islands of calm can be found in this storm, and it was on 
one such island that this next crucial piece of the Manus Nigrum’s 
history was found. 
Was the city truly the memory of legendary Enoch? After all, things 
of great personal importance can materialize in the Underworld once 
they’ve been destroyed. Or could it merely have been the sum total of 
vampiric dreams, hopes and fears of Enoch, perhaps the remnants of the 
dreams of the Antediluvians? None could say for certain, but to the 
Manus Nigrum, only the first possibility counted. Surely this was re- 
vealed only to the faithful for their own use. The cult’s eldest Eastern 
members and more mystically inclined Westerners settled in Enoch and 
made extensive studies of the city’s treasures, seeking clues to the 
Antediluvians’ purpose. 
During the early occupation, the settlers found the tombs of four 
beings called the Aralu down in Enoch’s foundations. The inscriptions 
on the tombs suggested these creatures might be Antediluvians. Over 
time, the explorers had dreams clearly sent by the Aralu that used 
familiar symbols from cult rituals. Though the evidence did not quite 
fit the Antediluvian paradigm, gradually all doubts faded and any 
potential challenges disappeared. The cult became quite certain that 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


this must be Enoch and no other option was possible. None ever paused 
to consider if the Aralu might be shaping the Manus Nigrum to fit their 
own agenda. 
The city became a headquarters for the cult. Most cultists made at least 
one trip there at some point (usually through a ritual involving ceremonial 
death) to remind themselves of past glories and to inspire dreams of future 
triumphs. The passion inspired by the pilgrimage made any troubles getting 
there worthwhile. 
THE 
HAND’S E I N C ~ E R S  
The Manus Nigrum brought together a very mixed bag of vampires. Like 
other Gehenna cults, its members often claimed to feel alienated from 
“normal” Kindred society and to be possessed of special insights which their 
own clans did not heed. What resulted was several dozen vampires, all 
convinced of the correctness of their own insights, forming a fractious 
organization where the common goal and their personal goals had little, if 
anything, in common. They squabbled amongst each other almost as often 
as non-member Kindred and were not above stereotyping or blaming each 
other for mishaps. 
The cult was never very large to begin with. Its sum total membership was 
between 150 to 200 vampires (with occasional lapses during crises). With the 
formation of the Camarilla and Sabbat, the cult divided itself between the two 
sects and independent Kindred enclaves. These latter ones made their homes 
in the Middle East, central Asia or India. The cult also attracted non-Kindred 
supernatural members to its ranks by its studies into the afterlife. Wraiths were 
the most common of these, followed by death-magicians and other, less well- 
known creatures. 
The majority of members came from the following clans and bloodlines: 
Assamite untitribu - A few Assamites helped found the cult and 
recruited members in the wake of the Tremere curse. They believed they were 
the protectors of those brethren who flocked to the Sabbat. 
True Brujah - 
This bloodline’s members claimed direct descent from 
Brujah, rather than from Troile, who had diablerized his/her (Troile’s 
gender remains a mystery) sire. The True Brujah differ from their brethren 
in Disciplines and psychology. Some Manus Nigrum members speculated 
that the bloodline was much younger and had diablerized its way to 
respectable old age, but such insults usually brought intricately plotted 
revenge from the offended party. 
Gangrel and untitribu - The cult respected this clan as the 
keepers of the old, pure traditions, and thus good servants of the 
Antediluvians. Gangrel who went to the Camarilla, or City Gangrel, 
were viewed as traitors. 
Malkavians and antitribu - The cult’s lore claimed that favored 
vampires had received dreams from the Antediluvians, so mystical insights 
were held in high regard. Any Malkavian might find a place in the cult if he 
followed its teachings. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Nagaraja - 
This strange bloodline, known only within the Manus 
Nigrum, dates back barely two millennia. The cult had experimented to 
fuse mortal death magic with vampirism; the result was considered a 
perfect fusion of the worst blasphemies of Eastern religions. The Nagaraja’s 
survival depended on the most despicable predatory acts, and their very 
unlives cut them off from the cycle of reincarnation. The bloodline can 
practice none of the major tenets of Buddhism or Hinduism, the religions 
of their mortal lives. Whenever the bloodline came to the attention of 
Hindu or Buddhist vampires (not to mention moderately devout mortals 
or Kuei-jin), purges inevitably followed. The bloodline found safety only 
within the Manus Nigrum. 
Nosferatu and untitribu - 
Those Nosferatu who joined the cult usually 
did so believing they could purge their clan’s sin against Caine without 
actually dying. Caught between suicidal despair and fratricidal rage, they 
often succumbed to their own anguish. 
Toreador and untitribu -Toreador 
provided aesthetic insight to the 
cult’s spiritual teachings and valuable connections to the mortal world. This 
was particularly necessary in India, where the Nagaraja required extra 
assistance to hide themselves. Such assistance included portraying vampire- 
hunting as superstitious or steering the hunters themselves at other targets, a 
talent turned against the cult’s rivals. 
Old Clan Tzimisce - 
This collection of Tzimisce elders believed the 
main clan had fallen into delusion and rebellion. They blamed the elders of 
the main clan for allowing the disastrous insubordination and rebellion that 
had been part and parcel of the Anarch Revolt. Most found havens with the 
Manus Nigrum and spent most of their time endlessly scheming to recover the 
clan homelands. 
Ventrue and untitribu -The Ventrue brought a sense of hierarchy and 
tradition to the cult, preferring merit and nobility over mere wealth. Their 
greatest assistance was to bring their own influence among mortals to the 
cult’s needs. 
C ~ H O U L S  
The Manus Nigrum took its ghouls from three families. Most ghouls 
served the cult as long they proved useful, meeting unpleasant ends by dying 
in service or from lack of vitae, which was withheld when they outlived their 
usefulness. A number of newly Embraced vampires within the cult were 
selected from the ghouls’ ranks. 
ENRATHI 
The Enrathi family traces its line back to Etruscan farmers in the time 
of Rome’s early years. As the republic became an empire, the family 
dabbled in the slave trade and found it to be profitable (not to mention 
they had an unpleasantly good knack for it). Within two generations, the 
Enrathi became slavers instead of farmers. When the empire fell, the 
family continued its work - 
there would always be those who wanted 
slaves, Cainites among them. When slavery was outlawed by convention 
or location, the family developed contacts and an array of tricks to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


continue the business. When the Manus Nigrum approached the family 
about a more extended and permanent relationship, it merely remained 
for the Enrathi to iron out the details. The family already knew enough 
about vampiric society to spot a good thing. 
For over 1000 years, the Enrathi family provided the Manus 
Nigrum with some of the finest ghouls, chosen from the family’s own 
ranks. Such tasks were not only out among the mortals, but also to 
assist the cult’s vampires and other supernatural members. The most 
favored among them even grew up in Enoch, tutored by the cult in the 
lands of the dead. 
One of the cult’s major tenets (and a major sore point for the Enrathi) 
is that no other vampires should interfere with mortals but those of the 
Manus Nigrum. The cultists simply believe that no other vampire is more 
capable of ruling the humans properly than they. A few members find this 
restrictive, preferring to command the kine and destroy those who dis- 
obey. As such, the Enrathi work quietly and don’t bring up the fact that 
their contract with the Manus Nigrum is one of mutual social obligation, 
not terms of submission. 
With the opening of the Americas and trans-Atlantic slave trade, the 
Enrathi rose to undreamed-of heights. Through a variety of names and 
disguises, the family grew to fabulous wealth. Politcal power remained 
beyond their reach - 
their experiments in the 17th and 18th centuries 
went badly awry when their ghoul natures attracted the attentions of 
witch-hunters. Since then, the Enrathi have been content to be rich, 
favored and private. 
MARIJAVA 
The Marijava family line had associations with vampires as far 
back as early Hindu history. Devout Thuggees appeared in every 
generation, supported by their mortal kin with magical studies. 
Marijava ghouls were seeded into the Assamite and Ravnos clans 
when the Manus Nigrum came calling. The family rejected the cult’s 
overtures, finding the Gehenna cult to be too alien and too obsessive 
to most Marijava. 
Around 500 BC, a branch of the family went into service of the 
cult and disappeared from family records thereafter. Between the cult’s 
penchant for secrecy and the family’s own magical defenses, the new 
Manus Nigrum servants never knowingly encountered their mortal kin 
again. The family turned its attentions to esoteric studies, particularly 
in Indian religion, along with the cult’s vampires, especially the 
Nagaraja. The cult’s Marijava maintained vast libraries of theological 
and philosophical writings on Indian mysticism and religion, much of 
it blasphemous. 
The Marijava’s primary task was to serve the cult as observers of Kindred 
activity in mortal guises. They spread themselves out across the world into 
blood cults, domains that made heavy use of ghouls and various mortal 
agencies that would allow them to watch Kindred from a distance. Much of 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the Manus Nigrum’s knowledge about current Kindred affairs came from 
Marijava intelligence. 
Not all of the family provided sound information. Some sold out to the 
Setites or Ravnos, passing false information as bait for unwary cult vampires. 
Some made up details to fill in gaps in their knowledge while others simply 
made up stories wholecloth. When the traitors were discovered, the cult 
purged these servants and their immediate families; the family as a whole was 
apparently too useful to destroy. 
RAPASTIO 
The Rafastio began serving the Manus Nigrum several centuries before 
the beginnings of Christianity, practicing the magic of blood and nature for 
their vampiric masters. Some cult members claim that the Rafastio family 
gave them a link with the powerful magi called the Verbena, while others find 
the claim stretched a little thin for credibility. 
The family traces its ancestry to northern Italy in the Po River Valley. 
Most of them stayed close to the villages and ancestral holdings of their 
foreparents, even into the modern nights. A few family branches moved out 
to the New World in the 19th century, and one group has operated farms in 
Kenya since the turn of the 20th century. 
Unlike the Enrathi, the Rafastio have served the Manus Nigrum, 
never taking a more equal stance. They operated and lived solely at 
the cult’s discretion. Only rarely would particularly talented mem- 
bers be Embraced; the Rafastio’s service was the sort of magic that the 
Embrace kills. Though they showed great aptitude for blood magic 
upon their change, the Rafastio were considered far more valuable in 
life than death. 
Magic was the Rafastio’s sole reason for inclusion in the cult. 
Anything the vampires couldn’t do for themselves, the witches likely 
did, from potions and mystical wards to bindings and protections. 
The cult paid them well, but supplemented their payments with 
abuse of all kinds. Some witches attempted to flee, but none escaped, 
and their gruesome fates were left as object lessons to the rest of their 
clan. Such was the price paid for shelter against the encroaching 
Final Nights. 
NON- 
EAMILY GHOULS 
The familes occupied special places in the hierarchy of the cult. 
Other ghouls signed on in response to certain needs. At least 20 ghouls 
spent their nights dealing with the storm debris that the Tempest threw 
against Enoch, which could include hauling toxic wastes or even “liv- 
ing” creatures. Such work was extremely dangerous, with a turnover rate 
of as high as 50 percent during the most violent Underworld storms. 
Others might spend their time sorting manuscripts in the vast libraries. 
Other than the strange living conditions, these ghouls lived like any 
others, attending to their masters and working at tasks they might never 
know the significance of. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
C H A T T E R L I N ~ S  
Chatterlings came to the Underworld as human children, brought 
by the Enrathi who had kidnapped them and growing up in the lands 
of the dead. As crossing the Shroud could be extremely risky, most of 
these unfortunates spent years in Enoch before they saw the living 
world again. They spent their time being instructed in esoteric lore by 
elder vampires and tutored in the ways of the Underworld by wraiths. 
Any other living humans these children saw were either other 
chatterlings or ghouls who had reasons to be in Enoch. The Aralu often 
walked in the children’s dreams, but what they mumbled very few 
could understand. 
Few adults are cut out for such a life, and children’s malleable 
minds were no more adaptible. About a third of any given group 
brought to Enoch went insane before finishing their instruction, and 
up to one-half of the rest perished in Underworld accidents or while 
trying to cross the Shroud. The rest learned to cope with the nightly 
strangeness of their situation - 
the constantly boiling storms of the 
Tempest, visits from violently insane Spectres hunting for prey, even 
the residents of Enoch. They were indoctrinated with the Manus 
Nigrum’s teachings, and the Aralu’s whispers confirmed what they 
had been taught. Fully inculcated, the chatterlings returned to the 
living world. 
After living most of their lives in the colorless, sensory-deprived 
world of Enoch, many chatterlings were overwhelmed with the mortal 
world. Some had to turn to smaller doses of humanity while the 
strongest among them managed to thrive and prosper. These served 
the cult’s efforts to guide humanity by working from the inside. Most 
chatterlings served for as long they were useful, then perished. Even 
disapproval from their masters drove some to suicide; there was no life 
outside of the cult and service, and the thought left some unable to 
cope. Even those who were successfully returned knew they were 
outsiders, alien to the rest of humanity. Their secret knowledge forever 
weighed heavily on them. 
Only a few chatterlings from each “class” received the Embrace. Of these, 
they were either particularly suited for life in the Underworld, or they could 
move among mortals without difficulty or revealing themselves. The former 
provided Enoch with its yesmen, administrators and other servants. The 
latter became the window to humanity during the cult’s planning and 
observed the results of those plans on the mortals at large. 
R I S E O E T H E  
SABBAT 
Mortal tools hadn’t worked as planned for the Manus Nigrum; 
perhaps Cainite tools would work better. The cult was positive that 
unseen forces were at work in the creation of the Camarilla and sought 
to create a counter-balance to it. It assisted the Anarch Revolt and was 
pleased to see several elders (and enemies) destroyed. Then, as before, 
things went awry. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The cult got a rude surprise with the destruction of the Lasombra and 
Tzimisce Antediluvians. How could such youths mount a devastating 
attack on Antediluvians? Most of the cult was comprised of elders, and the 
notion disturbed them greatly. Finally, they rationalized that the youths 
hadn’t actually done such a thing - 
it had been the Antediluvians who 
had faked their destructions for reasons that made sense only to them. The 
cult decided to monitor the new anarch organization and try to direct its 
energies more appropriately. Let them slaughter all the elders they 
wanted, so long as they thought it was preparation for Gehenna and the 
cult could do its work. 
The cult also attempted to infiltrate the Camarilla, seeking to topple the 
sect. When the young sect proved too stable for them to knock over easily, the 
members concluded that the Inconnu (who, according to Manus Nigrum 
doctrine, stood in active opposition to the Antediluvians) had blocked their 
efforts. They reconsidered their strategy and decided the Camarilla would 
make a better tool. 
T H E  C U L T I N T H E  
EAST 
Meanwhile, the Eastern branch of the cult had other concerns. Though 
it had once billed itself as being closer to the original purpose of the cult, most 
members spent their time in individual study or building their own personal- 
ity cults. The study of death and the afterlife was gradually shuffled aside, and 
most Enoch residents had no idea what transpired in wraithly affairs beyond 
the black marble walls. 
Those Eastern cultists still in the living world engaged in shadow wars 
with the Assamites and Setites, starting in the Middle Ages and lasting down 
through the centuries, or so they claimed. Two dozen vampires that only met 
in secret to study and most times effected independence were hardly consid- 
ered an enemy by Kindred society at large, and it is likely that the cult’s “wars” 
were not taken seriously. 
However, they did fight more seriously with the other supernatural 
beings of India. The Nagaraja were the particular targets of much of the 
worst opposition, primarily for their flesh-eating ways. As such feeding 
is much harder to cover up than typical blood-drinking, vampiric 
hunters tracked the Nagaraja before such activity could stir the mortals 
in the area to take up monster-hunting. In response, the Nagaraja saw 
such panic as both a mark of incompetence on the native vampires’ part 
and jealousy of their own superior insights. Some of the Ravnos took 
particular umbrage at the Nagaraja; they were quite serious about their 
history, and part of that included a role as the defenders of their local 
culture and religion. Even if the mortals were unaware, the Ravnos 
would be there to fulfill their role as keepers of India’s spiritual order, 
one which the Nagaraja had no part of. 
THE 
CULT R E ~ O U ~ S  
The Manus Nigrum’s disdain for the wraiths around them would 
lead to disaster. During the early 16th century, an army of wraiths 
attacked Enoch, using a mighty storm sweeping through the Deadlands 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


for cover. Only a handful survived, and the city’s defenses crumbled. 
It took over a century for the Eastern cultists to persuade their brethren 
to help them retake Enoch and another three years for the crusade 
itself. The commander of the operation, called the Del’Roh, took over 
as leader of the entire cult. During the mid- 1700s, the cult’s division 
came to a formal end. Still, groups in the cult would continue to pursue 
different aims and goals. 
T H E  CHALLENC~FSOETHE 
SABBAT 
The Sabbat, the more visible Black Hand, was never solely a tool 
of the Manus Nigrum. Members joined at their discretion, not the 
whim of some unseen mover’s. Likewise, the sect would move or not 
as it chose, sometimes in spite of efforts by the Manus Nigrum to steer 
them in another direction. As tensions elevated in the Sabbat, the 
Manus Nigrum saw its pawns as troublesome, things to be dismissed 
rather than people to be understood. Indeed, the cult rarely saw the 
sect’s members as being personalities at all. It continued to be 
surprised when tensions escalated into violence, and would more 
often than not attribute the chaos to the work of its unseen enemies. 
Manipulation caused the problems: Manipulation could solve them. 
The cult saw the terms that ended the two Sabbat Civil Wars as being 
but scraps thrown to the hounds so it could continue its own work. 
Such a disregard for the responses and motives of others would 
continue to unbalance the cult’s views and eventually be the first 
stones paving its downfall. 
The cult claimed it had preserved the Sabbat during the first Sabbat 
Civil War (running from the end of the 1700s to the early 1800s), and 
there was some truth to this. The Camarilla certainly could have poured 
into warring domains and decimated the ranks if not destroyed them 
outright. Instead, the Camarilla focused on expanding into new do- 
mains, opening new territories and waiting for the peace of thinned 
ranks before attacking any Sabbat domains, usually guided into such by 
the words of certain elders or Manus Nigrum agents in various courts. 
Part of the war’s terms included the Purchase Pact, forbidding war 
between Sabbat members, which allowed the cult’s influence over one 
faction to influence the Sabbat as a whole. 
The second Sabbat Civil War changed this drastically. The early 
20th century saw incredible mortal conflict, and the Sabbat followed 
with factional battles over the opportunities (and threats) arising from 
it. The Camarilla made gains during this time while the Sabbat was 
distracted, particularly in Canada, although the Camarilla’s victories 
were made pyrrhic by a few quick strikes. The Code of Milan in 1933, 
which ended this conflict, was a masterpiece of doublespeak: It pro- 
claimed the true ideals of the Sabbat then made them worthless by 
putting the true power in the hands of the sect’s leaders. Manus Nigrum 
agents acted to secure their own positions from challenges below and 
channel any remaining hostilities into more acceptable expressions; the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
cult itself had very little to do to ensure its interests. Even more, the 
Code of Milan committed the Sabbat to supporting the Manus Nigrum, 
granting the cult even greater influence. 
The third Sabbat Civil War proved equally satisfying in results, 
even though the war lasted a mere 100 nights in 1957, things were 
settled before the cult had time to make a response to its agents. The 
upshot was the recognition of the Caitiff as a new “clan,” which suited 
the cult; after all, groups and factions were far easier to manipulate than 
individuals, and this organized the most troublesome members of the 
Sabbat in one easy package. 
The rise of the Inquisitors among the Sabbat worried the Manus Nigrum, 
who recalled how unsatisfactory a tool their mortal counterparts had once 
proven. Of course, none ever considered that such disaster had ever been 
remotely their doing. 
I N  T H E  EINAL NIGHTS 
Whether Gehenna is imminent or not, the Manus Nigrum was struck by 
a number of disasters over several months - 
the work of millennia literally 
fell in the blink of an eye. 
ENOCH 
EALLS 
Enoch’s end was the first of these catastrophes. Over the centuries, a 
few wraiths stumbled across the city. Each time, the wraith ended her 
existence as a prisoner of the cult, met an unpleasant end while trying to 
escape or returned to the cities of the dead with the news and no one 
willing to believe her tale about vampires living in the Underworld. 
However, the Deathlords who governed the Empire of Stygia, the mighty 
domain of European and North American wraiths, had learned of Enoch 
long ago and longed to wipe it from the face of the Underworld com- 
pletely. Reliable guidance for getting through the storm, though, had been 
another matter, and their forces could only sit in harbor while the lords 
brooded. Then, recently, a band of wraiths presented the Imperial forces 
with precise information about Enoch’s whereabouts in the Tempest. The 
Imperial Navy, comprised of ships from across the centuries, set out to 
bombard Enoch. 
Enoch’s defenses included magical wards and 100-foot-high black 
marble walls that had often stymied and amazed those few travelers who 
had ever seen the city. Stygia’s navy came prepared, however, bringing the 
very best firepower available, and was able to hide its approach until it was 
too late for Enoch’s residents to flee. The dozens of vampires, ghouls and 
wraithly servants within commanded enough power to sink most of the 
first ships approaching. Superior numbers and familiarity with the Tem- 
pest prevailed in the end for the wraiths. The blockade held long enough 
for Stygia to call out its greatest weapon - 
the ghostly reflection of a 
nuclear warhead. In a blinding flash, the city and any within it vanished 
into nothingness. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


There was no advance warning to anyone. The mysterious Aralu fell like 
the rest of the city - 
whether they did not know, or did know and chose not 
to reveal it, remains a mystery. Early on, three ghouls were caught trying to 
slip through the blockade. When the destruction had spent itself, the Empire 
ordered them to carry the news to the Manus Nigrum adherents in the 
Skinlands. Let the vampires know that beyond the Shroud would only be the 
justice they had evaded among mortals. 
For more on Enoch’s destruction (and the wraith perspective), see Ends 
of Empire for Wraith. 
TH E HAND 
I N  TURMOIL 
The current Del’Roh and all her senior commanders perished when 
Enoch fell. Further, the liches, three potent blood magicians of the ancient 
Middle East who advised the Del’Roh, perished as well. Rumor claimed that 
they had managed to escape the destruction briefly, trying to siphon enough 
energy from the wraiths around them to maintain themselves, but eventu- 
ally vanishing altogether. Any attempts by the cult to track them down 
proved fruitless. 
The Seraphim, the elite guard of the Black Hand, fell to internal 
squabbles about choosing the new Del’Roh. Someone must bear the 
blame for Enoch’s fall - 
the Seraphim could not agree on who this 
should be, except that whoever it was was in the cult and must be 
destroyed. Factions not previously represented in the leadership started 
demanding their voices be heard. Clan fought against bloodline, fanat- 
ics against moderates, vampire against humans, those who favored 
mortals against those who managed Kindred society - 
any argument 
that could escalate into violence did. 
TH E WEEK o E N I ~ H T M A R E S  
The Manus Nigrum might have survived the loss of Enoch. After all, the 
core tenets were still intact - 
the loss of a single city in the Underworld 
wasn’t part of those. If some Antediluvians were destroyed (there never had 
been any definitive confirmation regarding the Aralu beyond cult doc- 
trine...), then it must be part of a master plan. Gehenna hadn’t begun yet, and 
the cult could regroup and gather its strength. 
Then the final disaster struck. 
In July 1999, the Ravnos Antediluvian awoke in a blast of dreams that 
struck sensitives from Malkavians to mortal psychics and madmen. For a week 
it fought a variety of opponents and continued to send out telepathic messages 
symbolically describing the battle. Only a combination of supernatural and 
technical powers were able to bring the monster down. The reverberations 
continue to echo throughout Kindred society, but the Manus Nigrum found 
particular meaning. 
The cult always believed that it did the work of the Antediluvians. 
From the finding of Enoch to the various movements in Kindred society, 
the Manus Nigrum did the work of the Antediluvians. The sleeping 
giants sent dreams and prophecy to their favored ones, confirming those 
beliefs. The Ravnos Antediluvian, however, had nothing to say to the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


cult when it awoke. It never addressed them in its mental ravings. It 
never chastised them for a failing or praised them for preparing the way. 
It never called on them during the battle. It did not seem to know they 
were there at all. Worst of all. it did not seem to care. For the cult, the 
revelation brought despair. 
Rationalization soon followed, though. After all, the Antedilu- 
vian had been insane. It had been busy. Surely the next Antediluvian 
would awake with more composure. But every new explanation fell as 
events unfolded. None of the Antediluvians spoke to anyone anymore, 
not in dreams or directly. Perhaps they never had. Perhaps the cult had 
once understood the pure truth, but had lost its way while dealing with 
baser vampires (or other creatures). Prophecy had not spoken of the 
Week of Nightmares. Could it be the prophets had misled the cult, or 
deluded themselves? 
In the wake of disillusionment, the cult shattered irretrievably. Some 
await what must be inevitable ends at the hands of the Antediluvians, while 
others cast about frantically for new hope. The Manus Nigrum as a unified 
entity, however, no longer exists. 
T H E  HAND 
SEVERED 
The events of the Year of Reckoning left remaining members of the 
Manus Nigrum disbelieving both their own infallibility and the cult’s teach- 
ings. There is a lot of frustration to be felt when one believes one’s been 
wasting hundreds of years on a path that leads nowhere. 
The world still knows nothing of the Manus Nigrum. Only a handful of 
observers have noticed the increased turmoil as the cult continues to 
fragment (thus removing previous guiding hands), and of these a few have put 
together the clues to deduce the cult’s existence. Those who have seen only 
pieces but no coherent whole build conspiracy theories that would make the 
cult proud. 
SEVERED 
E I N C ~ E R S  
THE 
CLANS 
Most cult members who belong to major clans resume normal 
unlives after the Week of Nightmares. Most believe that vampiric 
society in general will not survive, but perhaps smaller groups can save 
a few. Smaller Gehenna cults begin springing up among Assamites, 
Gangrel, Malkavians, Nosferatu, Toreador and Ventrue, where a single 
elder (or two or three) speaks of the approaching end times and of 
submitting to the Antediluvians. 
Such a message would not have brought a positive response in any 
other age. After all, these apocalyptic preachers suggest submitting to 
unknowable beings with incomprehensible wills that just might eat them 
all. Still, as the skies darken and stranger things prowl the nights, the 
Kindred do accept that they don’t know as much as they thought they did, 
although no clan’s majority has accepted the Gehenna cult message. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Elders reevaluate their places on the ladders of the Jyhad, while the 
neonates and ancillae find their lots look even bleaker than before. Is 
submission a message of hope or despair? 
T R U E  
BRUJAH 
Given ideal circumstances, the True Brujah would respond with cool 
reason and analytical appraisal. They began their plotting before the 
Manus Nigrum, and the cult’s end does not change things a whit. They 
take the Gehenna message quite seriously, but their rationalistic natures 
make them less likely to succumb to raving prophecies. They see their 
desire to serve the Antediluvians as being the product of carefully 
appraised historical precedent and current reality. Too bad the approach- 
ing end times aren’t ideal circumstances. 
The True Brujah have little idea how to deal with the crises approaching. 
Unused to high emotion, they have been forced to enter the End Times with 
little information and act quickly, a situation not to their liking. They knew 
they must abandon the Manus Nigrum, but what comes next continues cause 
bitter argument. 
Most True Brujah agree that all wicked vampires (read: nearly every 
other vampire) must be punished. If there are fewer sinners needing punish- 
ment when the Antediluvians wake, perhaps the carnage will be more 
restrained. To this end, the bloodline’s members have insinuated themselves 
into coteries, posing as members of other clans. As the bloodline is unknown 
to Kindred at large, its members operate knowing they are unlikely to be 
connected to each other from city to city. They often assist in the hunting of 
the Thin-Blooded or other forms of Kindred slaughter, though their efforts are 
minor in the grand scheme. 
A few True Brujah and Setites have formed a loose confederation. 
The Setites are well-aware of the secrets of the past with their confed- 
erates, and their histories recount the fateful old times. True Brujah 
pass along information and tactical intelligences for the Setites to 
apply (as the bloodline has discovered it has some trouble persuading 
anyone outside itself), a combination of ruthless intelligence and 
cunning along with a sense of others’ weaknesses. Some Setites make 
a particular effort to undermine prominent main-clan Brujah, while 
others merely look for opportunity. 
Dissension plagues the ranks of the bloodline, particularly among the 
truly ancient elders and those wanting to move ahead. Efforts to begin 
recruitment and Embrace fall on deaf ears. The time for extended action 
has passed, and as the world crumbles, conflict may further thin the ranks 
of the bloodline. 
N A ~ A R A J A  
Never very large to begin with, nearly all Nagaraja active in the 
modern nights fell with Enoch. Less than a dozen who had been on the 
other side of the Shroud managed to survive. Knowing they would need 
more shelter than the cult’s remnants could provide, they sought shelter 
with the Cathayans. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Their reputation in India assured that they would find only death 
there, so the Nagaraja turned to the Green Courts of Korea. The Green 
Courts listened to their suit with fewer preconceptions, and offered 
shelter in exchange for information (whether or not they knew as much 
about the Nagaraja as the Kuei-jin of India). The price was steep - 
the 
Nagaraja traded nearly everything they knew about Necromancy and 
necromantic organizations. The Nagaraja are now recognized as honored 
guests of the Green Courts. 
The Green Courts were most interested in the news of the war against 
Enoch and the origins of the monster storms currently raging in the 
deadlands. Few Kuei-jin oriented toward the dead can tolerate the 
Giovanni, and the news could bring a united campaign of the courts 
against the Necromancers. As for the Nagaraja, they remain on the brink 
of extinction, unable to Embrace (their requests to their hosts for such are 
all put aside politely for “further discussion”) and trying to maintain a 
footing in their precarious shelter. 
O L D  CLAN TZIMISCE 
The Old Clan Tzimisce includes both the usual disgruntled elders and a 
handful of lunatics, as well as their loyal childer. It is the lunatics who have 
changed the timbre of the clan’s activities. 
The Old Clan possesses Animalism, Auspex and Dominate for its 
Disciplines, rather than Vicissitude. The clan believes that these 
powers reflect the needs and concerns of ancient rulers in rugged 
domains. They find Vicissitude to be a perversion, completely un- 
healthy for a vampire to indulge in. A Tzimisce should be a leader 
steeped in ancient lore and wisdom, not a freak show. The lunatics 
took this dislike a bit further, claiming that the Discipline wasn’t a 
true Discipline but the manifestation of an evil spirit or even a 
vampiric disease. Those leaders who found such rants to be ridiculous 
were branded as members of the Vicissitude conspiracy. Rants led to 
purges, and most of the saner members now try to keep the lunatics 
somewhat contained. 
Most of the Old Clan now spends its days preparing for what it 
knows must be the End Times. Its members know they must prepare 
themselves to be worthy on their own terms, not trying to shore up other, 
weaker vampires. Many now spend all their rime on their ancestral 
estates (those who didn’t have them previously have been acquiring 
them by various means), preparing themselves for the Tzimisce Antedi- 
luvian (who may have already risen). 
In post-Communist Eastern Europe, many Old Clan Tzimisce 
find their old-style tyranny to be reassuringly stable to the peas- 
antry. They restrain overt displays of vampirism, preferring to walk 
among the people as returned heirs of noble estates or business 
leaders, concealing their vampiric powers. They have withdrawn 
from the worthless Kindred society at large to cultivate virtuous 
domains at home. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-4 
9 H O U L S A N D  C H A T T E R L I N ~ S  
B N R A T H I  
The fall of Enoch cut the Enrathi family off from its greatest source of 
income. As the Manus Nigrum further fragmented following the Week of 
Nightmares, the Enrathi’s ties to the cult disintegrated. The family never 
committed its entire resources to the cult, in the event of just such an 
emergency, and concentrated on building up its slave trade, despite the short- 
term hardships. 
The Enrathi are skilled survivors in the World of Darkness and know how 
to make themselves unseen to the world at large. They don’t advertise that 
their vastly extended family is all related; their outward guise is of ghouled and 
unghouled mortals of varying ethnicities who all happen to traffick in the 
flesh trade. Their gifts as mediums can be found in any ethnic group, so that 
doesn’t cause suspicion. In short, only the most dedicated observers might 
trace down connections. 
Princes of major port cities and airport hubs are aware of the slave trade, 
but so long as the law isn’t aroused and “gifts” keep showing up in their coffers, 
most princes are willing to let it slide. There are a few more experienced 
ghouls looking for domitors in these nights, but hardly enough to rouse 
suspicion except in the most paranoid of princes. Enrathi ghouls bring with 
them the family’s accumulated wisdom regarding the dead and the Masquer- 
ade, always welcome resources. 
The drawback to all this has been the storms in the Underworld. Enrathi 
medium gifts have become a curse and burden as wraiths plead and demand 
their attention. Some Enrathi fall to psychosomatic illnesses or try to lose 
their gifts through lobotomy; some even commit suicide. The unintentional 
purge results in individuals who are savvy enough to understand the dead, but 
callous enough to resist their calls. 
MARIJAVA 
Marijava committed themselves to service with the Manus Nigrum. 
When the cult splinters, the ghouls panic. Some attempt to bind themselves 
to the isolated survivors, but the need for servants is little, and more than a 
third are dying simply for lack of vitae to prolong their lives. Those who 
haven’t died yet have become vampire-hunters, taking the blood they need 
as rogue ghouls. 
Some Marijava search for their long-lost family, without success. Half 
the searchers disappear altogether due to threats from Lupines and other 
monsters outside the cities. There is confusion over the fates of the old 
Marijava family that refused service with the Manus Nigrum - 
did they 
all simply die out,or are they unfindable to those ghouls whose auras bear 
the stamp of cult service? 
A number of Marijava simply continue their existence and service to new 
masters, trading information about vampiric rivals for blood, cash and other 
resources. Those private or government agencies seeking to hunt vampires 
may find the Marijava willing to work for them. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


RAEASTIO 
The Rafastio perhaps suffer the greatest in the wake of the Manus 
Nigrum’s disintegration. Without their masters standing over them as they 
have for millennia, what can give determination to their sense of self? Most 
vampires are unlikely to trust mortal magicians who talk of serving some 
cult of Kindred overlords, and those few who attempted to defect to other 
magical communities found they had no friends among other mortal 
magicians. In short, they find themselves truly isolated with few resources. 
Dozens of Rafastio die in the months after the Week of Nightmares. Some 
cross the path of a vampire on the verge of frenzy, some attempt a ritual 
without adequate preparation, some meet gruesome (unprintable) fates, 
and many commit suicide, bereft of hope and purpose without the cult. The 
remaining family members regroup to plan and redirect their clan’s activi- 
ties in the name of survival. 
Sub-families within the clan bind themselves to individual cult 
members or offshoot groups. Old Clan Tzimisce take many of these 
“orphans” in, the two traditionalist groups being comfortable with the 
arrangement. Others gather in spots around the world in groups of varying 
sizes, such as six serving a very old Malkavian or two living with a mixed 
coterie. Most select such new masters with an eye toward the future, 
hoping that their masters’ purity might deflect whatever carnage follows 
when the Antediluvians awaken. 
About 50 to 100 of the Rafastio hunt for the remaining Ravnos. After all, 
if these vampires came so close to contact with their Antediluvian and 
survived, they must bear a special holiness which could protect those around 
them. Finding a Ravnos is a task in and of itself, and once found, few Ravnos 
understand what the Rafastio want, and even fewer accept the offer. A 
Ravnos who allows the Rafastio to remain soon finds herself with a following 
of devoted disciples very interested in her continued existence. 
The rest of the family go into business for themselves in various enter- 
prises. Some turn to the vampire-hunting organizations of the Inquisition; 
after all, if the Manus Nigrum could not survive, then no other vampire is 
worthy. Others offer their particular magical influence and assistance to 
vampires outside the cult or even to mortal clients. As mortals seek whatever 
anchor they can find in such dark times, the Rafastio cater to many requests 
with both genuine magic and superstitious pandering. 
C H A T T E R L I  ~
c
j
~
 
Nearly all chatterlings serving the Manus Nigrum died when Enoch 
fell. Unusual numbers of chatterlings happened to be in the city at the 
time due to a variety of reasons. Any survivors were in the physical lands. 
Most of these are exceptionally gifted at moving among mortals, and most 
operated under deep cover, going for years without contacting their 
masters. These deep-cover agents have no idea that the cult’s remnants 
don’t care about them. A few more informed chatterlings are aware of 
events transpired, but they continue with their mission, waiting for new 
leaders to give them their next orders. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE 
H A N D A N D  
EATE 
To conspirators, everything else looks like part of a plot or an 
accident. When conspirators continually work in disciplined secrecy 
and use even minor events to advance the grand agenda, they forget that 
most people are not part of any great scheme. They look for rival plots, 
search for non-existent evidence and see such as confirmation of cagey 
enemies. Everyone is either raw material or in on the conspiracy. 
Motivations that have nothing whatsoever to do with the conspiracy 
mean nothing to those who can’t understand why events don’t follow 
the grand scheme. The Manus Nigrum failed in part because of its 
members forgot that history happens because of many personal drives 
coming together in unpredictable ways, and individuals ultimately act 
for their own reasons, for better or worse. O n  several occasions, the cult 
even dismissed the idea that those outside the cult had personalities, 
goals and motives - 
in short, that they were people. Those who were 
not of the cult were merely tools, servants or just part of a mass that was 
being used as a tool. Such beliefs rarely take independent thought into 
account, and by this the cult collapsed. 
The Manus Nigrum was certain that the chaos that affected both the 
Camarilla and Sabbat was its own doing. Debacles like the Anarch Revolt 
or the Inquisition weren’t their fault, and any successes were entirely their 
doing. They didn’t believe that any non-cult vampires could create long- 
term plans or that neonates and ancillae might actually work together out 
of shared concerns rather than under the coordination of some great 
scheme. In the end, such unrealistic appraisal of themselves and their 
“enemies” brought them down. 
So how much history is the Manus Nigrum responsible for? That 
depends on your perspective. As Storyteller, you can make the cult as 
irrelevant or as critical as you see fit. The cult’s insight into its own doings 
makes it unlikely to be completely true, but likewise, the cult’s critics may 
have made their own mistakes in assizing the cult. Loyal members examin- 
ing the cult’s claims may either find their beliefs confirmed or core-shaking 
disappointments. If you choose to use Manus Nigrum material in your 
chronicle, remember that the cult overestimated its impact on the Kindred 
world. It attempted to play at Illuminati with only minimal success due to 
the continual maintenance of secrecy. 
T H E  SECTSAND 
LIBERTY 
The Manus Nigrum boasted members from both sects, and the cult’s 
fracture resounds on both sides of Kindred society in different ways. 
For the Camarilla, the Manus Nigrum’s claims of influence and 
control were frankly overinflated. Some prominently placed individuals 
took orders from the cult or responded to prompting through various 
channels, but on the whole, the sect owed nothing to the cult and the cult 
couldn’t extend its reach without the risk of exposing its agents (who 
would have been promptly ashed for serving outside influences). The 
greatest evidence of the cult’s passing is that those who were receiving 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


orders are now without leaders. Some former pawns lose their direction 
completely, so used to taking orders after several centuries that they have 
lost much of their innovation. Others become more aggressive, trying to 
show themselves that they haven’t lost their individuality after years of 
service. Those who genuinely followed the cult’s doctrine simply carry on 
as best they can, wondering what happened to their old masters and 
hoping that things will soon return to normalcy (when they’re not 
proselytizing). 
The Black Hand, however, is in far more dire straits in some cases. 
Two Seraphim battle for control of both the cult and the Sabbat - 
Djuhah, who sought to speed the pace of the cult’s recruiting and now 
finds himself suspected of plotting against the Sabbat leadership, and 
Izhim ur-Baal, who believes himself the new Del’Roh and presides over 
the cult’s remnants from the crater that was Enoch. The other Sera- 
phim of the Sabbat had no connection to the cult; the cult’s own 
Seraphim perished along with the Del’Roh and liches at Enoch, and 
Izhim and Djuhah survived only because their duties took them away 
at a crucial time. Some have debated bringing Seraph Elimelech 
aboard, but most believe him to be too insane. Others would prefer to 
see the cult die a dignified death rather than totter along as a shadow 
of its former glory. Those packs that took orders from the cult know 
some of the fallout from the Week of Nightmares. Now the packs seek 
to prove themselves ready for the great battle, working without secret 
instructions, which results in reckless acts of bravery that get more 
killed than anything else. The other factions in the Sabbat at large 
don’t understand the fury of these packs and seek to rein it in or at least 
channel it. Some Sabbat leaders, only now aware of the subversion of 
the Manus Nigrurn, seek to weed out the cult’s influence where they 
can, finding the cult’s doctrines completely against their greater 
mission and the degree of its influence disturbing. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Come on in and sit for a while. This isn’t anything formal, nothing fancy 
- 
most of us probably have our feet up and a bowl of our favorite snackings 
within easy reach, and that’s just fine by us. Consider this a roundtable where 
we sit around and discuss some new ideas to use in Storytelling and some 
possible solutions for what gives us grief. 
ALTERNATE 
S TORYTELLI ~ c j  
TECHNIQUES 
Many stories are rarely told in a straightforward way. Some play fast 
and loose with time and place as authors gloss over minor events in order 
to get to the main action. They’ll tell you the history of a character when 
you need to hear it most and not a moment earlier. And sometimes, just 
to get your attention, they’ll tell you how the story ends before it even 
begins. These twists and turns in the narrative line keep things fresh for 
the audience. 
As a Storyteller, you have the freedom to use these same techniques 
to keep your chronicle’s narrative fresh and entertaining. Your play 
sessions might be limited to one night out the week, but your chronicle 
is only limited by your imagination. If the current story hinges on events 
that took place centuries ago, take those events and let your players 
bring them to life. If you want to galvanize the players into action, let 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


them see what Gehenna might be like. Show them their dreams, or let 
them compose the threads of their nightly lives in detail. Your chronicle 
is not limited to a few brief hours a week and neither is your role as 
Storyteller. If you feel the need to change the pace and direction of your 
game, you may want to use some of the following techniques to throw a 
curve in the road. 
STOP READ IN^ Now If... 
These techniques require a lot from you and your players before you 
use them. Here are some of the demands that these tools will place on you. 
If you don’t feel up to these needs, come back to this section later. You 
aren’t a “bad” Storyteller if you don’t use these techniques; it may be that 
your game simply doesn’t need these systems to make it work. Each game 
has its own demands. 
All of these techniques are tools to building a better game. They’re 
tools; they aren’t full-blown chronicles in and of themselves. Each of 
them can add excitement to a story, but they need to be used sparingly 
or they’ll get too familiar (and thus lose that excitement, which was why 
you brought them in). If you have a flashback scene every session, 
eventually players will get bored with them. Roll these techniques out 
when you want to add an exclamation point to an event in your game or 
when you want to explore a character’s emotions in depth. Never use 
them simply because you’re bored. If you honestly can’t get any excite- 
ment out of your current game, you need to do more work than just 
throwing a couple of these ideas at the screen. 
All of these techniques are meant to encourage roleplaying. If your 
players are more interested in blowing away Sabbat members with their 
submachine guns than exploring the emotional depths of their characters, 
then they aren’t ready for these scenes. Don’t give up hope though; 
eventually they’ll be ready for this kind of stuff. Until then, don’t spoil 
their fun by forcing this down their throats. You can’t force a person to 
roleplay well; you can just give them the opportunity. Until they take that 
opportunity, wait and be patient. 
These techniques often focus heavily on a single character. They will 
demand a lot of one-on one work between yourself and a player. If you 
have players who get jealous of that sort of attention, be ready to deal with 
the consequences and the politics before you dive in. If you spend a lot of 
time with one character in particular, other people will likely start 
demanding the same sort of attention. Be prepared to provide it or skip 
these techniques entirely. 
Last, be prepared to go above and beyond your usual game time to 
make these techniques work. Most of these ideas require that you 
spend some time away from your regular game session moderating a 
scene. It really helps if you have some assistance in this work. These 
scenes are meant to be a break from the ordinary, so a few changes to 
your regular routine can make a big difference. In particular, a few 
helpful assistants to play Narrator characters, a few props or a few 
costumes can have a big impact. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Still ready to give a whirl? Great. Let’s see what these tricks will do for 
your chronicle. 
E LAS H B A C  KS 
A vampire story is as much about the past as it is the present. 
Vampires are creatures that have had centuries to grow, learn, and 
change. The person a Kindred was years ago makes him who he is today. 
Most vampire fiction spends a great deal of time on those past experi- 
ences. Often the audience watches the past and the present side by side, 
so that they can see just why the vampire acts the way he does. Your 
chronicle might have just as much history as any vampire novel, but that 
history rarely gets much examination in play. Players will generate 
characters that were born centuries ago, but somehow, that history 
rarely has any relevance to what happens tonight. 
Flashbacks are one method of bringing that history to life. In a 
flashback scene, you take a moment from a character’s history and put it on 
its feet. This can really flesh out a character’s roleplaying experience. It’s 
one thing to know why a Kindred still seeks vengeance for his lover’s death 
centuries ago; it’s another to hold her mangled body in your arms and know 
she’s gone forever. A player’s character can become far deeper for this 
experience. If you choose the right history, and the right time, this can take 
your whole chronicle to a new level. 
The trick is picking the right character and the right time. When you 
select a player to do a small scene like this, you’re devoting an awful lot 
of time and attention to her. Is that the best thing for your game, or should 
you spread your time more evenly across your entire player base? Ulti- 
mately, only you can answer that question. As a rule of thumb, you’ll 
probably want do small scenes like this outside of your main gaming 
session. Your first instincts will draw you to the characters that gave you 
detailed backgrounds that catch your attention, or the characters that are 
driving the plot right now. However, eventually someone is going to 
grumble “favoritism” if you spend too much time with any one group of 
players. While it can be easy to focus continually on the good roleplayers 
who always give you great backstories, look at those players who perhaps 
need a small kick in their metaphyical pants to move from merely 
meandering through the game to being an active part of it. 
A quick dip into a character’ past is a big boost to any player’s 
roleplaying skills. Most Storytellers like to talk new players through the 
events of their characters’ lives well before the Embrace just to establish 
the character in the player’s mind before real play begins. With a group of 
willing volunteers, the Storyteller might be able to take these initial 
roleplay notes into a bona fide scene, providing a miniature “boot camp” 
to get fresh players accustomed to their new characters and to live-action 
roleplaying in general. This sort of technique is only practical for smaller 
games, however, and it requires a lot of supervision on your part. You may 
want to talk a trustworthy assistant into making this a full-time project if 
possible. I t  may take time, but eventually, everyone can get a chance to 
sample their character’s pasts as they see fit. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


There’s no hard and fast rule about what bit of history makes a good 
scene. Your own judgment and sense of style as a Storyteller is your best 
guide. Keep an eye out for high stakes moments in a character’s background, 
those times when everything acharacter had was on the line. The character’s 
Embrace is a solid choice, but almost anything goes. Also, you want to pick 
something that has relevance to your current plot line. If the scene you’re 
creating never has any impact on your main chronicle, it may as well have 
never happened at all. If the modern-day lover of a Kindred is threatened, 
it might be worthwhile to detail with a player how his character lost a lover 
centuries ago. In the end, though, the game that you’re creating will 
determine what sort of history you need to show. 
Previously written history needs to happen in a certain way, not 
necessarily rigid because that’s no fun to play, but with the understanding 
that you have a goal to get to. Make sure you know exactly what’s supposed 
to happen in a flashback scene. How does it begin? What actions have to 
occur? When does it end? You will probably what to keep the flashback 
scene a “soft” roleplay event with no challenges. If you let the players play 
rock-paper-scissors to determine your chronicle’s past, you could end up in 
serious trouble. After all, if that tragic death of a lover in the 17th century 
never happened because your player gets lucky.. . well, it’s back to drawing 
board for that character history. You can patch over the situation - 
maybe 
she just died later - 
but overall, you just want to prevent those situations 
in the first place. Let the players determine how they react to events, but 
keep the action under your control. Encourage gut instinct and emotional 
response rather than too much decision-making. 
The resources you throw into a small scene like this can enhance the 
experience tremendously. A few helpful assistants to play Narrator char- 
acters are always a great benefit. Likewise, a few small costumes or props 
can give a lot of life to a scene. At a minimum, give yourself enough time 
to play the scene fully and enough space to put the scene on its feet. Avoid 
merely sitting down and talking things out if you can help it. Mind’s Eye 
Theatre is a game that’s meant to be played on its feet. Show your players 
the past; don’t just tell them. 
The most important thing about any flashback is tying it into current 
events. History without a context is meaningless to the game. A flashback 
is a great way of illustrating how history repeats itself. Do your best to make 
that history repeat and watch the recognition in your player’s eyes. If you 
went the extra mile and got an assistant for a Narrator character, make 
sure you use the same assistant when you’re bringing the past into the 
modern nights. Maybe that lounge singer is a distant ancestor of your 
Kindred’s old lover.. . . In the same way, a prop from the past can take on 
a lot of value if it shows up unexpectedly in these final nights. A little 
touch like this is all you need to tie the past and present together at times 
and bring depth to the game as whole. 
ELASH- EORWARDS 
Just as modern vampire stories revolve around the past, the World of 
Darkness is obsessed with the future - 
what little of it remains, anyway. 
t 
i 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Gehenna is coming with all the speed and fury of a runaway train, and no one 
quite knows what’s going to happen or when or what will result. Sometimes, 
it pays to remind players of this little fact. 
Flash-forwards serve as foreshadowing to events in a chronicle. Just as 
a flashback shows players events of what came before, a flash-forward gives 
them an opportunity learn what the Final Nights are all about. Sometimes 
they can be signs of smaller events that are coming up, like a Sabbat 
invasion or the death of a prince. Alternately, you can get really ambitious 
and stage the opening salvos of Gehenna. In either event, your goal is to 
heighten the sense of dread and urgency that should be present in any 
Kindred game. The World of Darkness is coming to an end; players 
shouldn’t feel like they can dawdle. 
A flash-forward is a terrific way to start a new chronicle. Imagine what 
happens when you show your players what will happen to them before the 
game even begins. If you tell your players, “This is the story of how the 
Camarilla fell in this city. This is how Gehenna came,” then they will pay 
attention. Every action that they take becomes important. Every choice 
becomes a dangerous one. The stakes are just a little bit higher than if they 
were playing for their own characters’ amusement - 
and the higher the 
stakes, the more your players will want to play. 
When you’re producing a scene that predicts events in the future, you 
need to be extremely careful. Players can and will do their best to get out of 
awful predicaments, and their methods will surprise you. You want to get 
your point across while giving away a minimum amount of information. If 
you don’t, someone will inevitably find a way to make your foreshadowing 
invalid. Don’t be afraid to include a disclaimer before any flash-forward 
scene: “This scene shows events that may happen.” As a wise sage noted, the 
future is always in motion, and what was true when you opened events may 
not be after three sessions. 
Generally speaking, you want to show the distant future, not the events 
happening next week. The further ahead in time your scene is set, the less 
likely it is that your players can change it. You’ll also want to keep things as 
vague as possible. If too many details are set in stone, you’ll have to scramble 
keep things happening according to schedule, which may devolve into a run- 
on-rails game. 
You’ll probably want to keep a tight rein on the action a flash-forward 
scene, just like a flashback. In a flash-forward, you’ll probably be using 
characters that currently exist in your chronicle. Players get very unhappy 
when they feel that they’re powerless to affect events. You want to keep things 
lax enough that the players feel that they have some control over the 
situation, even if that’s not the case. These scenes are about flavor, not 
combat. As with any of these techniques, roleplaying is the biggest concern. 
Encourage your players to pay attention to how they react to what happens, 
not what they do themselves. 
Of course, if you really are serious about throwing Gehenna at your 
players, you may just want to hose them with ridiculous odds. A glimpse 
of the end times should be terrifying for characters. It doesn’t hurt to 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


rattle the players a bit as well. In your main story line, it would terrible 
form to give the characters no chance of survival at all, but this isn’t your 
main story line. You don’t have to worry about whether all your 
characters will survive. Feel free to draw up Methusalahs, battalions of 
Sabbat or whatever else your fiendish mind can produce. You don’t need 
to be “fair” when the end result isn’t going to have an impact on the 
chronicle. Just remember that you’re not in this for sadism. You’re here 
to make a point for the players. Admittedly, the point might be that 
their characters aren’t really as tough as they think they are, but you 
should be aiming higher than that. 
A little mystery in a flash-forward can create a great deal of suspense 
in your main chronicle. If you keep some of the details obscure in your 
scene, you can keep the players guessing anxiously about the chronicle’s 
plot for some time. Maybe there’s a mysterious hooded figure command- 
ing the Sabbat legions in your home city. The conversations in the 
flash-forward make it clear that this figure was once a loyal Camarilla 
member. So who’s the traitor? Players will become a great deal more 
paranoid after something like this is shown to them. The characters may 
not have any reason to be more suspicious, but you can bet that the 
players will start jumping at shadows. You may very well not know who 
that hooded figure is yourself at this point - 
just creating that sense of 
urgency and dread is often enough to drive events forward. Eventually, 
the chronicle will present its own answer, and you can reveal that 
hooded figure in a later scene. In a sense, the actual events in a flash- 
forward aren’t all that important. It’s how the chronicle gets to the 
future that matters. The details of the flash-forward can remain obscure, 
as long as the end results are interesting. 
Make absolutely certain that your players understand that the flash- 
forward is not in-game information. Anyone who acts on the information 
you give in a scene like this is cheating. If a player can’t respect this, he 
shouldn’t be a part of the scene. At the same time, you need to make sure 
you don’t give players information that they’ll have a hard time sup- 
pressing. If you reveal one of the main characters in the game is a traitor, 
players will react differently to the character, no matter how hard they 
might try otherwise. Again, keeping your flash-forward vague and 
distant in time helps. 
DREAM 
SEQUENCES 
In a chronicle, a dream sequence is a great way to lend an air of mystery 
and surrealism to a game. You can use dreams to liberally drop hints about a 
plot to a specific character, to make agraphic statement about a theme in your 
chronicle or even to make the loss of Humanity in a character an event 
instead of a statistic. Dreams are extremely liberating in their freedom as 
Storytelling devices. Dreams and visions are disjoined, illogical scenes where 
emotions are more important that the laws of nature. This sort of fractured 
vision can provide a great mechanism for giving your players clues, or insights 
as to their own inner natures.. . or even just frightening them as you hit the 
characters in their sleep. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


As with all these Storytelling techniques, you want to pick and 
choose whom you’re going to give a dream sequence to. Unless the 
situation is extremely odd, only one character will have an active role 
in the dream. Perhaps she frequently has nightmares or the dream is one 
those strange flashes of insight that crop up with Auspex or Dementation. 
There’s nothing keeping you from hitting any player at any time with an 
interesting dream, though. After all, everyone dreams. The final deci- 
sion, as always, is up to you. If you feel something interesting will come 
from taking a character through the Twilight Zone, don’t hesitate to go 
down that road. 
It’s critical to have a complete background for a character before you 
create any dream sequence. Dreams tend to pull images from our past 
experiences and everyday lives. You need to know what the events in a 
character’s past mean before you can truly begin. If you put a father figure into 
a dream, you need to make sure that the character in question didn’t kill his 
father in a rage. Likewise, little details like a favorite toy or an old phobia can 
help to give a dream context and texture. Dreams are intensely personal; you 
have use symbols that mean something for the character in order to make a 
truly personal experience. 
A dream sequence probably has the most opportunity for Storyteller 
control out of any Storytelling technique. You can turn the dreaming 
character into a little girl, an old woman or anything in between. Strange 
things happen in dreams, and often, the dreamer can feel powerless in the 
dream’s wake. It’s highly recommended that you avoid using any sort of 
challenges in a dream sequence outright. Most dreams only give someone 
a few options on how to cope with a situation. When you encounter a fork 
in the road in a dream, you rarely have the option of turning around and 
going back home. As long as your player is comfortable with the idea of 
losing this much control of their character, things should go smoothly. As 
always, the player you choose to work with in a special scene like this 
makes all the difference. 
Bear in mind that when it comes to surrealism and dream imagery, 
a little goes a long way. You might want to compose a dream sequence 
where the player flies into orbit and takes tea with dragons, but such wild 
things are generally hard to roleplay. Small, subtle changes are more 
likely to unnerve your players rather than big special effects. Something 
as small as meeting a familiar friend who treats her like a stranger can 
rattle a character a lot more than meeting a large horned demon in a dark 
alley. The familiar gone very wrong always has more potential for terror 
than the alien. 
It’s a good idea if you touch on a several different themes in the course 
of a dream. Use dream imagery to hit upon problems that a character is 
having in his modern life; show him a prophetic event; toss in a few 
meaningless images. To a certain degree, you want to be as obscure as 
possible in a dream sequence. Your own vision as Storyteller should tell 
you where to go with any dream, but as a rule of thumb, never be 
completely straightforward. If you follow the psychology that says humans 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


dream in an effort to deal with issues that their waking minds can’t or 
won’t tackle, then the subconscious probably will find a back-door route 
to accomplishing what it needs. 
Also keep in mind that most dreams are very disjointed in structure. 
Feel free to jump around in time and place as your plans dictate, ending 
scenes and starting new ones whenever the mood strikes you. Rapid jumps 
in time and space can help to give players the surreal experience you’re 
looking for. Your only goal in a dream sequence is to give a player 
information or to set a mood; stop the session once those goals are 
achieved, even if it cuts a scene in half. Dreams are all about images, not 
conclusions, and a good dream sequence should always leave a player with 
unanswered questions. 
After a dream sequence, your player may well approach you looking for 
some insight as to what they went through. While the use of some Abilities 
like Enigmas or Occult might help out, there is no hard and fast rule as to how 
to use game mechanics to interpret a dream. You definitely want to avoid 
simply handing the players a dream’s meaning. As a rule of thumb, limit 
questions to specific objects in the dream and avoid answering questions 
about the dream as a whole. Enigmas might tell you what the one-armed man 
represented in a dream, but it won’t tell you the dream’s story from beginning 
to end. Make the players work to reason things out; don’t hand them the 
answers on a platter. 
B L U E  B O O K S  A N D  DOWNTIMES 
Often there just isn’t enough time to get everything done in a game. 
Players may want to conduct detailed investigations, pursue a stakeout or 
even just socialize over a long period of time. Events like this can’t be 
covered in just one evening, no matter how much work you do. As a 
Storyteller, it’s sometimes in your benefit to gloss over these things and 
compress time so that the players can get back to the central plot of the 
evening. However, you can take another approach. If all the players 
involved are mature enough to roleplay on their own, you may want to 
allow them to create the details on their own time and let you become 
aware of the results. A process like this is called blue booking, and in the 
hands of strong roleplayers, it can help you flesh out the daily life of your 
game considerably. 
A bluebook is not the same thing as a downtime. Downtimes are 
another common tool used by Storytellers, usually when several weeks 
pass between game sessions. Generally, Storytellers will ask that 
players let them know how their characters spend those intervening 
weeks. A good downtime report can provide a lot of detail on a 
character’s actions and may provide a wealth on a character’s motives. 
However, most downtimes are a solo effort, and as such don’t quite 
qualify as roleplaying. A character’s downtime doesn’t involve any- 
thing but the player’s own imagination; other players rarely have any 
input into events, nor can the Storyteller change things as they occur. 
Without reactions from other people, there’s very little roleplaying 
that can go on. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A bluebook, on the other hand, involves both Storyteller and player 
interaction. In a sense, it’s more like agroup writing effort than a true Mind’s 
Eye Theatre session. If two or more players let you know that they’d like to 
build a scene together, you may want to have them write down the details 
of what happened and convey the events to you. The exact process is up to 
you and your players, but generally, it’s best to work in a round-robin format. 
You build the initial setting for the players; then one player puts down his 
actions and reactions. The next player edits events as he sees fit, adds some 
more details and returns them to the original player. When all parties are 
satisfied, they can return the project to you, and you can then incorporate 
events into the game. 
There are certain criteria for a bluebook scene that have to be met 
before you can use this method. Obviously, a bluebook has to be a no- 
challenge event; if things come to blows, it’s time to move things off of the 
paper on onto their feet, with you present in the flesh. Generally, a 
bluebook is useful for filling in the quiet times between games. It’s far more 
useful to describe coffee between friends than a showdown between 
enemies. If there’s ever a doubt as to whether a set of roleplayers can build 
a bluebook together effectively, get things back onto their feet and 
supervise things in person. 
E-mail is a fantastic way of building a good bluebook with your players. 
Ideas can flow back and forth very quickly. A scene can take shape 
practically in real time if you let it. However, it’s better to resist this 
temptation and put detail into your blue book techniques whenever pos- 
sible. Bear in mind that you’re using a bluebook because your players wanted 
to take the time to do a scene right. Just because you can compose something 
in a matter of moments doesn’t mean that you should. While it’s very useful 
for you as a Storyteller to monitor the crafting of a bluebook as it happens, 
you’ll want to remind the players that it’s the final draft that matters most, 
not the e-mails that fly in between players as they go. 
How you use a finished bluebook is up to you. Often, players create 
bluebook scenes simply to fulfill the personal needs of their characters. 
In a case like this, you may need to do nothing more than moderate the 
scene to make sure that nothing happens that might disrupt the game as 
a whole. Hold on to that finished work, however. Generally, players will 
give you a lot of information on how their characters think through 
bluebooks scenes such as this. That information can only benefit you 
later in the chronicle. 
A bluebook scene will generally require almost no moderation on your 
part. There’s no reason for you to step in when a scene changes direction; if 
the players find themselves leaving the coffee house to go hunting in a back 
alley, let them. A bluebook is as much for the players’ benefit as yours; as long 
as none of their actions harm the chronicle, you might as well let them roam 
as freely as possible. 
Most importantly, bear in mind that Mind’s Eye Theatre is a game that’s 
meant to played on its feet. Bluebooks in particular, and e-mail in general, can 
take up a lot of the slack in between game sessions. But they’re no substitute 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


for interacting with another player in the flesh and on the scene. As soon as 
is convenient, encourage your players to break away from the bluebooks and 
into real time again. While a bluebook can be a solid tool for creating a 
character, it is a tool, and not an end in and of itself. 
In the end, there are many more techniques than this available to you. 
People have been telling stories for as long as they have been able to speak, 
and the styles they’ve used to do so are varied in the extreme. Any of those 
techniques can be applied to your chronicle, as long as you’re willing to 
apply time and effort to the problem. The tools given here may help when 
trying something new; if they don’t, feel free to make up your own. In the 
end, any new style of Storytelling is going to be daring and experimental. 
If that worries you, than don’t risk it. If it excites you, try it and see what 
happens. In the end, that process of discovery may prove as exciting as the 
game itself. 
HISTORICAL 
SETTINC~S 
So you want to run anew chronicle, but the idea of dragging out the same 
old sort of setting (Yourcity, USA, current year) makes you gag. Sounds like 
it’s time to go traveling. Vampires have been stalking the shadows since 
Biblical times and have always been active in human history. What better way 
to explore history than through the eyes of the Kindred? 
R U N N I N C ~  
WITH HISTORY 
Historical chronicles have particular needs that are often vastly different 
from modern chronicles. They require attention to detail, intensive research 
and considerations of what you want to accomplish with your chronicle. 
Historical chronicles can easily fall down when slapdash research 
catches up with you. If you’re going to run a chronicle set in Victorian 
England, then you’d best know something about Victorian England. 
What’s given here should help you choose what time period you’d like to 
play with and some ideas for Kindred involvement, but to make the setting 
come more fully alive, you’ll need more background. Historical resources 
can be found in a number of easily digestible formats, from movies to 
documentaries to references for writers (found in the reference section of 
the bookstore) or even other games (such as Call ofcthulhu). Don’t focus 
on solely on an endless series of political events - 
look at what literature 
was being read, what was causing scandal, what unexplainable events were 
stirring up people, what exciting new inventions were improving life. No 
matter how small a Kindred’s world, things like the banning of Lady 
Chatterley ’s Lover or the invention of the cotton gin can create ripples that 
eventually run up against him. 
It’s been said the devil’s in the details, and in a historical game, details 
can mean the difference between an adequate chronicle and something 
spectacular. Anything from the hat a character wears to how she addresses 
someone can help it come to life. Details are also frequently what can trip 
you, especially if you have a history buff whose pet project just happens to 
be the era your chronicle is set in. If you can work with the player to share 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


his vast store of knowledge, you may find yourself with a fine Assistant 
Storyteller who can catch those little details you missed the first time 
around (how to address a duke, how many calling cards to leave) and infuse 
the game with a sense of the times. If your history buff proves to be more of 
a nut and nitpick, you can always point out that it’s the World of Darkness 
and your chronicle, and this is the setting you’re working with. 
While we’ve given you a lot of broad swathes in mortal and Cainite 
history to work with, this is by no means all that is going on. A single book 
could be written on running a chronicle in Victorian England or Renais- 
sance Italy alone. Don’t get bogged down by everything that’s happening 
in a single time period - 
chances are, you don’t need to be; you only need 
to know how the era’s events will affect your own chronicle’s setting. In 
some periods (especially the pre-industrial world), a vampire’s world is 
likely to be the city he lives in or around, and maybe the city he fled from, 
which makes your setting conveniently smaller. How easily a vampire can 
communicate with a neighboring city or even another country is up to you 
- 
there’s a great deal of difference between trying to send a messenger 
through the Lupine-haunted Schwarzwald and sending a telegram. As 
communication becomes easier and the news becomes more accessible 
(through the telegraph, telephone, radio, television), the world grows 
correspondingly, at which time you’ll need to decide how much of that 
great big world to include. Travel does not become feasibly safe for many 
Cainites until the advent of the steam train, which means most folks will 
stick close to their home cities. The wild places in between mean Lupines 
and other terrors, another good reason to stay home. Close to home does 
not always mean safer, though: Which is worse, a city that hosts a center 
of the Inquisition, or a city where a vampire story has swept up dozens of 
excited youth (both living and dead)? 
Lastly, what do you want to accomplish with your chronicle? Fore- 
most, of course, is telling a good story and having fun at it, but sometimes 
a different setting can bring out aspects of the story in new ways. For 
example, you decide you’d like one of the major themes to be paranoia - 
who can be trusted, who is an enemy, who has fallen? While a contempo- 
rary chronicle can certainly fill the bill, consider times when paranoia was 
even more poisonous - the Anarch Revolt, the Reformation, the 
McCarthy hearings. What do you see now? What about a chronicle that 
emphasizes humanity? The era of Carthage and the formation of the 
Camarilla both find vampires with great Humanitas either struggling to 
maintain what they have or using it as a means of survival. In other time 
periods, rehashed themes can take on new meaning, and have far more 
serious consequences to really shake up players. 
THE 
SECOND 
CITY 
The Second City arises after the Great Flood recedes. The Flood has 
wiped out Enoch, destroyed most of humanity and left only some of the 
Third Generation to start again after the world’s near-destruction. No 
Cainites weaker than the Third Generation survive the Deluge, and they 
seek to rebuild what was lost. The mortals build another city on or near the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


site of Enoch, and the Antediluvians (those Cainites who survived the 
Flood) claim the rulership of it. They have, however, not learned the lessons 
of Enoch prior to its loss. 
The Third Generation sires many childer, seeking servants and pawns, 
against the dictates of Caine. The vampire population rises to such a pitch 
that the mortals can barely support it, and bloody feuds rack the streets as 
coteries compete for dwindling resources. This is the era that sees the 
beginnings of the different clans and the end of bloodlines so rare that they 
do not survive the end of the Second City. 
Finally, Caine becomes so enraged at the hubris of the Antediluvians, for 
their rebellion against their sires, for their wasteful fighting, for the destruc- 
tion of the Second Generation, that he curses each one in turn according to 
his or her crimes. It is believed that from these curses spring what will become 
the weaknesses of the new clans. Here will come Nosferatu’s hideous appear- 
ance, Brujah’s uncontainable rage and Gangrel’s bestial nature, among 
others. Having cursed his grandchilder for their ways, Caine vanishes soon 
after. None know where he has departed to, why he has gone or when (if ever) 
he will return. Confusion reigns: Some celebrate their overbearing grandsire’s 
departure while others believe themselves lost. In the confusion, fighting 
again breaks out as the new clans scramble for his chair. 
Soon, the Third Generation realizes that their childer may well prove as 
great a danger to them as they were to the Second Generation. This 
realization drives them into the shadows where they continue their fighting, 
now called the Jyhad. The move changes the nature of the war as well - 
Jyhad is now conducted in secret, using more visible creatures as pawns to 
protect themselves from discovery. 
A chronicle of the Second City has remarkable story potential. The 
vampires do not observe the Masquerade - 
indeed, they are often 
worshipped and revered as gods or divine servants of such. The clans are 
altered considerably - the Tremere have not yet appeared, the 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
Cappadocians have never heard of the Giovanni, and the Salubri 
flourish as healers and teachers. There is no thought of sects, only 
alliances between coteries and broods, making for strange bedfellows 
indeed. It is during this time that the infernalist Baali arise in the East 
and war with the Second City, destroying many on both sides. There is 
no agreement on what brought the Third Generation to their gestalt 
about their childer and grandchilder - 
could it have been a coterie 
attacking an Antediluvian, or the growing rumbles of rebellion across 
the Fourth Generation? Did the mortals lose patience with their end- 
lessly warring “gods” and aid the Fourth Generation in rebellion? And 
what of the Canaille in this time? How did they live and work in the 
shadow of seemingly immortal blood-drinkers who could kill them with 
but a thought? What happened when one of their own was Embraced? So 
much history is shrouded in myth or lost to modern eyes that your 
chronicle could go in many directions. It can be immensely entertaining 
to create history (or myth, in this case). 
Chronicles that involve such aged characters like Methuselahs can be a 
temptation to abuse character power. Even in this age, when the Masquerade 
is observed more in the breach than the practice, Cainites wage their wars 
against each other in stealth (with the exception of the brutal Baali war). 
Antediluvians and Methuselahs don’t stalk each other in the streets or have 
showdowns at midnight. Whether it is to keep the mortals from rising in 
rebellion against their not-so-immortal gods (for if a god dies, surely the rest 
must be equally breakable), or to make their moves less obvious to their foes, 
the Cainites practice the early beginnings of what will become the shadow 
war of the modern nights. 
THE 
CLASSICAL 
WORLD 
With the fall of the Second City, the Cainites scatter across the known 
world (and perhaps a few into the unknown). The Fourth Generation sires the 
Fifth Generation to serve them - 
creating the makings of yet another revolt. 
Gatherings are often difficult due to travel, but when they do occur, they can 
create true marvels, like Carthage. 
The Classical World includes the eras of Babylon, Phoenicia, the 
Egyptian dynasties, Hellenic Greece, the Roman Republic and Empire, 
the kingdom of Israel, Carthage and many other cultures and cities. Many 
Cainites use the time to set themselves up as priests to benefit from 
sacrifice (for several gods did demand blood sacrifice), and some go 
farther, setting themselves up as dark gods who lead from the shadows. 
Many tales tell of the ancient gods having human-seeming flaws and 
making titanic struggle over petty matters - 
could it be that the Cainite 
Jyhad made its way into mortal tales? The Masquerade exists as a Tradi- 
tion, but it is honored in passing (more often in the breach than the 
observance) and in many places (especially where Cainites wish to flaunt 
supposed divinity) ignored altogether. 
While mystery cults are found in nearly every time, they have their 
true start in the Classical World. These are where citizens come to worship 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


older gods supplanted by the new pantheons, the forbidden gods whose 
worship is banned by the government or even some deities created by 
“priests” hungry for offerings of any kind. Some worshippers are wealthy 
citizens bored with earthly pleasures and seeking decadence (which many 
cults offer in abundance). Others are poor, believing that these cults can 
offer them something that the “accepted” gods and priests do not. As the 
cults and their practices are often banned by the local governments as 
destructive (with excellent reason - 
tales of sexual orgies, blood-drink- 
ing and human sacrifice abound), their activities take place in secret, 
under cover of darkness and the protection afforded by the social standing 
of the wealthy. In all, the cults prove a windfall for Cainites to feed and 
build contacts. Perhaps a Cainite even founds such a cult for himself as a 
place to feed, or to relive older days of glory in Enoch. 
~ R E E C F  
Greece is considered the cradle of much of Western civilization’s 
ideals, from poetry and drama to statecraft and philososphy. Numerous 
luminaries, such as Plato, Aeschylus, Sappho and Draco, may have 
Cainite followers or companions. Nights mean debating in the philoso- 
phers’ schools, listening to the sublime poetry of Homer or training with 
the Spartans in the arts of war. The historic rivalry between Athens and 
Sparta may well have roots in a Cainite quarrel or another move in the 
Jyhad. Many Brujah trace their lineages to this golden age, when they were 
debating philosophy or training warriors. 
This time gives rise to the idea of Elysium, a safe place where 
Cainites might meet and interact without fearing attack from each 
other. Those who violate the sanctity of Elysium are destroyed, estab- 
lishing precedent for millenia to come. There is little describing those 
first tense nights when Cainites entered Elysia and wondered who they 
could trust - 
an invitation to the first Elysium might make a fine start 
to a Classical chronicle. 
PAX 
ROMANA 
The rise of the Eternal City sees Cainites in its midst. At its height, 
the Roman Empire’s borders span from Great Britain to the Middle East, 
from Germany to northern Africa. The Romans borrow much from their 
neighbors and subjects - 
language, religion, customs, adornment - 
and are great patrons of their own enterprises. Cosmopolitan, wealthy, 
mighty, respected, Rome is both prize and opportunity for Cainites. 
Many cluster in Rome, warring with each other and their mortal 
neighbors for the prizes to be won in struggles both open and secret. 
Rome is the pride of the Ventrue, and the clan maintains a great 
presence here. Nosferatu find the phrase “All roads lead to Rome” to be 
an apt one, and many settle in to reap the information that flows through 
the city on its way to other destinations. As a center of religion (of many 
religions), Rome is also a city of Faith. True Faith is not found merely 
with Christianity but with any religion, and in an era when gods sit in 
household shrines and the sacred sits publicly beside the secular, Cainites 
tread carefully among the temples. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Across the Mediterranean in Phoenicia, Carthage is the Brujah’s 
attempt to re-create the glories of Enoch. For over a thousand years, the 
Brujah and other Cainite inhabitants of the city explore new depths of the 
Blood in Disciplines, magic or the power of the Beast. Carthage, however, 
is nothing like the dream that will be spoken of in later centuries - 
Cainites openly rule the mortal population and demand blood sacrifice 
from the people while darker rumors of infernal ties divide the city’s 
inhabitants. Some Cainites are appalled by what their self-styled “divine” 
brethren have done, and attempt to turn the city to a more Utopian ideal, 
a place where mortals and Cainites live openly and harmoniously to- 
gether. Others drive it even further into iniquity. Cainites outside Carthage 
often see the city for what it truly is - 
a nightmare waiting to breed 
further nightmares. Such conditions make the place ripe for a revolt by the 
mortals against the vampires, and possibly open the door to similar revolts 
everywhere else. Several vampires work against Carthage, starting ru- 
mors, infiltrating the city and even undermining it from the inside. 
Roman vampires aid this by encouraging the Punic Wars. When Carthage 
finally falls, gnawed from the inside by Cainite infiltrators and crushed 
from the outside by Scipio, it is no wonder that no stone is left standing 
and the earth is salted. Over the years, Carthage fuels many speculations, 
sends out Cainite recruiters and hosts vampires of nearly every clan. Who 
would listen to such tales? Would characters enjoy the depravity of 
Carthage, seek its profit or work against it? 
Not everyone is so pleased with the “Eternal City” or her grasp. The 
Fertile Crescent is a scene of uneasy peace or violent bloodshed as Jews 
struggle against the Roman occupation of their homeland. Rome ap- 
points native govenors in an attempt to quell some of the demands, then 
removes those govenors when the expected tax revenues don’t flow, or 
an Emperor perceives some action as being suggestive of weakness. It is 
entirely possible that Cainites could be on either side of the conflict - 
those who maintain lands where Enoch once stood (or so they believe), 
and those who serve the Roman eagle (and Ventrue overlords). The 
Holy Lands are also considered the historical lairs of the Baali. Most 
Cainites believe them destroyed with the great wars, but Salubri war- 
riors and other demon-hunters still find evidence of their tracks. Across 
the continent in what will become Germany, Cainites entering with 
Roman forces may likely tangle with angry Lupines, who rage against 
Man’s grasping ways. In Albion, Cainites are likely to find even more 
surprising challenges - 
native vampires like the Lhiannan bloodline or 
even the Fair Folk, the Wild Ones that Caine warned his children about, 
maintain England’s green hills as their own, and they are unlikely to 
welcome Roman Cainites with open arms. 
The era of the emperors sends the glory of Rome crashing into 
decadence and decay. The succeeding horrors of Tiberius, Caligula and 
Nero steadily whittle away the Roman Empire into nothingness. Those 
outside the palaces see how their-once proud world is collapsing into 
bread and circuses (but may not care) while those within struggle to 
maneuver the mazes of intrigue and avoid fatal notice. Even Cainites may 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


be hard-pressed to keep up with the intrigue and might well wonder who 
is manipulating whom. It is during this time in the Holy Land that Jesus 
teaches and is crucified. Many converts to Christianity are martyred for 
their faith by the Roman Empire while others huddle in catacombs, 
unwilling to risk their lives or give up their faith. While perhaps there is 
no blood sacrifice or infernal ties (to most Cainites’ knowledge, at any 
rate), those who despised Carthage’s depravity surely swallow hard at the 
sight of Caligula’s madness or Nero’s circuses. 
THE 
DARK 
A ~ E S  
The Roman Empire collapses under its own weight, inept leaders and 
wave upon wave of barbarian invasions. Many Gangrel claim to have ridden 
with the hordes that sacked Roman outposts and the Eternal City itself. Here 
follows an era commonly called the Dark Ages, so called because it was 
believed that Europe stagnated in a period completely lacking in art, culture 
or philosophy. In fact, the perceived lack is false - 
the Catholic Church sets 
down its roots, patronizing arts that benefit its young power, and legendries 
such as King Arthur spring out of this era. 
Cainite sects begin to emerge during this confused time. A number 
of Roman Cainites, tired of the nightly games and ceaseless Jyhad, seek 
to remove themselves entirely from their brethren’s blighted sport; 
they become known as the Inconnu. The Manus Nigrum begins its 
secret crusade to pave the way for the return of the Antediluvians 
(although its roots are in fact much older). Most vampires during this 
time are more centered on those around them rather than far-flung 
groups; after all, the Blood is more important than some half-formed 
ideal. This era also sees the institution of a Cainite idea called the Law 
of 1001 Nights (one vampire per 1001 mortals) in an effort to check 
overpopulation, which often leads to bloody clashes. In many places, 
Cainites follow the example of mortals in establishing minor fiefs for 
themselves, barely bothering to conceal their supernatural natures 
(especially where paganism still reigns). It is a choice they will come 
to regret in later centuries. 
The Catholic Church’s continuing rise of power results in a change to 
Rome’s atmosphere. Some Cainites in the Holy City experience strange 
visions and dreams, others suffer discomfort from the new aura of Faith, 
and a few even meet with mysterious destruction. Not all suffer in the same 
way-not 
a few vampires choose to convert to Christianity and others see 
the nascent Church as a new resource of power. Christianity introduces 
new concepts to Cainite thinking, such as their place under the hierarchy 
of God and the notion of damnation. Perhaps sires and childer clash over 
conversion, or new converts must struggle with questions of doctrine 
versus their own existence. 
Early in 1000 and continuing through the Middle Ages, the Church 
seeks to reclaim holy sites in the Middle East from the “heathen” Muslims. 
It sponsors Crusades, great battles against the Muslim forces led by secular 
kings and calling up armies from across Europe. Christian Cainites may 
take up the banner of Holy Mother Church and venture into the Holy 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Lands, only to encounter Assamites and Setites, who are not interested in 
entertaining Canaille claims to their lands or the Cainites who back 
them. Some knights may ride out on Crusade and return as Cainites after 
being Embraced in the ranks. A Crusades chronicle can be very exciting 
as Christian vampires encounter brethren inclined to Muslim or Jewish 
faiths in the Middle East - 
which battle is more important: Cainite versus 
Cainite, or faith versus faith? What happens when a promising mortal 
receives a battlefield Embrace? 
The recent surge of “millennium fever” that heralded the year 2000 
is not as new a phemonemon as the pundits would make it to be. In fact, 
the first round of millennia1 fervor struck as 1000 CE approached. Some 
feared that this was the year that the Biblical Apocalypse would strike, 
and clergy took the opportunity to impress on the pagan populations that 
disaster was imminent. In many places there were mass conversions to 
Christianity (perhaps from those thinking to stave off whatever punish- 
ment was muttered by the priests), followed with millennium cults and 
mass suicides. Accounts of the times speak of prophecies and omens. In 
the midst of all this, it’s doubtful that the Cainites were able to completely 
ignore the mortal panic. Indeed, some were likely swept up by the fear and 
fever, perhaps believing that the Biblical Apocalypse would also herald 
Gehenna. An interesting short-term chronicle might deal with how the 
Cainites faced the coming millennium and the resulting mortal terror - 
did they accept a conversion to Christianity (the pain of Faith be 
damned), did they support cults that promised protection from the coming 
storm or that vowed to celebrate unto destruction, or did they simply hide 
and hope that there would be a world to return to? 
T H E  MIDDLE 
A ~ E S  
From the Dark Ages rises the medieval period, a complex time of openly 
ruling Cainite lords, neonates chafing under the iron rule of their elders, 
mortal faith and fears, and strange things to be found in the untamed woods 
between cities. This is a time best described in Vampire: The Dark Ages and 
its MET companion The Long Night. 
In 1022, a cabal of Hermetic wizards steals the secret of vampirism in 
their search for immortality. They pay a heavy price for their knowledge: 
Their magical powers vanish, and their presence in Cainite society is very 
much unwelcome. Seeking to legitimize his line, their leader hunts down 
and diablerizes the Antediluvian of the Salubri clan. Fortified on stolen 
vitae, the new clan begins a systematic purge of the Salubri, to the 
revilement of many Cainites. Clan Tremere’s temerity in seizing vampiric 
power upsets vampiric society, and many vampires do not know what to 
do with these “Usurpers.” Clans Nosferatu, Gangrel and Tzimisce, along- 
side several Hermetic cabals, wage shadow wars with the blood magicians 
in retribution for clanmates used in Tremere experiments. A chronicle of 
bloody nights in Eastern Europe as the young Tremere clan struggles 
against their many enemies can be laden with conflict, but not always - 
the Tremere utilize powers never seen before among vampires, the Tzimisce 
call upon their own blood magic steeped in the crags of the Carpathians, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and the Nosferatu put their spying powers to the test to gather information 
on their enemies. 
Within the Church arises a new faction, one dedicated to the 
eradication of heretics, witches and monsters. While elements inside and 
outside the Church often use it as a tool to seize money or land, or for one 
enemy to denounce another, too often the Inquisition serves its purpose 
admirably. For many elders, the Inquisition is a wake-up call that their 
openly supernatural ways point the Inquisitors to their doors. To buy time 
for themselves, the elders hurl their childer at the flames; scores of 
vampires of all generations and ages fall in the fires. The Cainite popula- 
tion is left a shadow of its former numbers, but deeper wounds are dealt. 
The betrayal of the elders enrages many neonates and sows the seeds for 
greater rage to come. 
In the mid-14th century, flea-ridden rats arrive in Italy, riding in bales 
of silk from Asia Minor. The fleas bear the bubonic plague, which sweeps 
across Europe in two years. The resultant pandemic kills over one-quarter 
of Europe’s population, wiping whole villages from the face of the world. 
Uncommon numbers of the clergy die as they care for the sick or 
administer last rites to the dying. The fear of this time is unparalleled - 
who will sicken next? where is God during this time? is the world ending? 
Feeding becomes difficult for many Cainites, and questions over the 
Cainites’ role in the Black Death go unanswered. While it’s well-known 
that vampires can carry disease from those they feed on, did the Cainites 
carry the Black Death as much as the rats? How would a blood-borne 
disease react to Cainite blood? How will Cainites feed as their neighbors 
around them drop from the plague? Could a Cainite be insane enough to 
carry and spread the disease deliberately? 
The Black Death has far-reaching consequences. The population loss 
results in labor shortages, which leads in turn to traditional feudal relation- 
ships crashing from lack of support. This leads feudal lords to crack down on 
peasant wages and mobility in an effort to stabilize matters, making them 
worse. The peasants respond with some of the largest revolts ever seen in 
medieval Europe. The violence stirs many neonates into open warfare against 
their murderous sires in what will be known as the Anarch Revolt. 
T H E  
RENAISSANCE 
The dark, cold times cannot last forever. Slowly, Europe begins to thaw 
itself out, both physically and spiritually. However, the emerging warmth of 
rebirth becomes the heat of passion and where a new ideas clash with an old 
order reluctant, fires often result. 
In the warm hills and cities of Italy, this “renaissance,” or rebirth, first 
takes hold. Ancient Greek and Roman texts (some no doubt sheltered in 
vampire libraries for centuries), with their ideas of a world that is based on 
humanity’s worth, provide much of the impetus for the changes in thought 
that subsequently lead to changes in culture and society. The world is no 
longer centered solely on the attainment of Heaven - 
this is a world of 
humans, where things should be created for the benefit of humanity. The 
wellspring of changes and new ideals are almost impossible to catalogue as 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


every aspect of life is touched by this new notion of human worth. 
Impressive strides are made in art, literature and the sciences - 
from da 
Vinci to Michelangelo, from Dante to Shakespeare, from Gutenberg’s press 
to Galileo’s astronomy. 
All is not necessarily well, however. The Renaissance also sees a rise in 
absolutism, the divine right of kings and totalitarianism. The Church has 
lost some of the power it wielded over secular life, but that increases its grip 
more strenuously over the sacred. Where the Church and state meet, their 
hands clamp with deadly force. After many prosperous years in Spain, 
Moors and Jews are thrown out during the Reconquista, a joint venture by 
King Ferdinand of Aragon and Queen Isabella of Castile. Even as Isabella 
is bankrolling Christopher Columbus’ voyage to seek new routes to India, 
she is enthusiastically leading the Spanish Inquisition to seek out not only 
potential heretics but also those Jews and Muslims who converted to 
Catholicism to avoid persecution and who practice their religions in 
private. Some escape early on; others are not so fortunate. Across Europe, 
Muslims, Jews and pagans become scapegoats for Holy Mother Church, and 
publicly professing one’s faith can be tantamount to a death sentence in 
some places. Obviously, few Kindred with the right inclination will waste 
the opportunity to put enemies squarely in the sights of Torquemada and his 
crew. Who will profit when an enemy burns in the public square? The 
Lasombra who support Isabella are likely to put Brujah, Assamites and other 
“undesirables” to the torch with enthusiasm. 
The Anarch Revolt continues to rage in the shadows, and the pursuit 
of the mortal Inquisition doesn’t help matters. Two Antediluvians fall 
against the onslaught. The first is Tzimisce himself, when anarchs and 
clanmate Lugoj successfully attack and supposedly diablerize him, which 
follows close on the heels of Assamites and anarchs claiming to have 
destroyed Lasombra. Neither Antediluvian seems to be around to deny the 
charges. Suddenly, the Anarch Revolt is being taken very, very seriously by 
the elders - 
after all, if the Antediluvians (who are nigh unto gods) fall 
before these mongrels, what hope can there be? Rumors that a group of 
Tzimisce youth have discovered a way to break the shackles of the blood 
bond only fuels the terror. Assamites follow the anarchs across Europe, 
supping on the blood of fallen elders. 
The scions of a merchant family in Venice become bored with the 
earthly privileges that wealth and power can bring and start casting about 
for more unearthly delights. Incest and other perversities bring some 
diversion, but then some of the family discovers nigrimancy. The family finds 
it has a talent for this type of magic, particularly when it allows them to 
indulge their dark tastes. Such talent does not go unnoticed, and when 
Cappadocian clan comes to offer patronage, la famiglia Giovanni does not 
squander the opportunity. Greed, however, is strong, and in 1444, the 
family head, Augustus Giovanni, seeks ultimate power by diablerizing the 
clan’s founder, Cappadocius. In a grim replay of the hunt against the 
Salubri, the Cappodocians are put to the sword by the new clan and believed 
hunted to extinction. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


In October 1493, the Camarilla is officially founded at the Conven- 
tion of Thorns to put an end to the hostilities of the Anarch Revolt. A 
heavy curse is levied to punish the Assamites for their involvement, 
making them unable to commit diablerie. Those anarchs who wish to 
return to the fold may do so, but many refuse the offer of their treacherous 
elders, turning their backs on the Camarilla; these die-hard rebels will 
form the core of the early Sabbat. The convention also sees a new, 
stringent policy of the Masquerade come into effect: It is not enough to 
hide from humanity; the vampires (or “Kindred”) must make humanity 
forget they ever existed. For some that means avoiding older ways and 
practices, including the old Viae (medieval precursors to Paths of Enlight- 
enment). Those who cannot or will not change are often stamped out as 
threats by the newly created archons and justicars. 
R E  E O  R MATI o N A N  D RE s TO RAT I o N 
The Reformation is a dangerous time, whether one is dead or alive: One 
can easily be killed on a spurious accusation of witchcraft or heresy. The 
Malleus Maleficarum (or, The Hammer of Witches), authored by two 
fanatical clergymen, adds fuel to the hunts by making a case against witches 
and women. The witch-hunts last from the early 1500s until the early 1700s, 
and while the fires burn the fiercest in the German states, the rest of Europe 
is not unfamiliar with the grip of the witch-craze. In some towns, the 
hysteria reaches such a pitch that their populations are devastated. Torture 
is considered perfectly appropriate to elicit confessions from those who are 
reluctant to confess or who recant on the stand. Documents of the time 
reveal that not a few “witches” or “heretics” were also wealthy or prominent 
citizens or that interrogators would force confessions regarding particular 
names. Were the witch-hunters making examples of their high-born prison- 
ers, or was someone cashing in on the wealth that often reverted to town 
treasuries? Only the wiliest of vampires could remain unscathed in this time, 
perhaps guiding the hunters to the doorstep of his rivals and enemies, but 
there is always the chance that the hunters may suddenly question how their 
source knows so much. 
Martin Luther’s Reformation brings many changes for German Chris- 
tians: In their split with the Catholic Church, they were no longer subject to 
its laws. Many read the Bible for the first time after it is published in German. 
The split does not bode well for everyone, though; many Protestants are as 
intolerant or more so than the Catholics. Luther supports pogroms against the 
Jews while Calvinist tolerance is equally lacking. Those Kindred living in 
Calvinist communities find they must be extremely careful as their neighbors 
are ever watchful for “sinful” activity, which is quite broadly defined. Worse, 
many Calvinists are witch-hunters even more fanatical than the Romans. 
The Restoration of the English monarchy marks the time of the cavaliers 
as the English king Charles I1 restores English society to a more relaxed state 
after Oliver Cromwell’s bloody reign. Across the channel, the French king’s 
private bodyguard, the Musketeers, fuel stories for years. In response to years 
of tight restrictions, closed theatres, guarded words and fiery deaths, Europe 
in many places enjoys many newly loosened strictures, from the arts to bodices 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to expectations, although the Inquisition continues to remain a shadow in 
many Catholic countries. The Camarilla’s continued efforts to enforce the 
Masquerade begin to pay off at last: The vampire-hunters, finding few 
monsters to slay, turn their attention to more human causes. As part of the 
Masquerade, Kindred encourage mortal sciences and explorations grounded 
firmly in “reality,” encouraging worldviews that do not allow for such 
supersititons as vampires. 
The exploration and colonization of the New World sends both Sabbat 
and Camarilla across the sea, seeking new opportunities. The Sabbat seeks a 
world where they can gain a foothold against the Camarilla while Camarilla 
neonates and ancillae hope to expand beyond the smothering grasp of the 
European elders. Both sects find what they hoped for, and neither is willing 
to share with the other. 
E N L I  cj H T E  N M  E N T  A N D REVO L U T I  o N 
The 18th century is marked by a time called the Enlightenment, so 
called because it introduced many new ways of thinking: Advances in the 
sciences as well as new philosophies and thoughts on religion and spiritu- 
ality. Religion is no longer considered a source of explanations, but 
science hasn’t taken its place yet. Philosophy describes the world in terms 
of reason, not faith and superstition (hallmarks of ignorance). Individual 
thought and identity gain ground while monarchies and divine right slip 
further from power, but not everywhere. Indeed, neonates who enter into 
Kindred society with such views may be quickly disavowed of them after 
seeing princes at work. 
Revolution rocks both sides of the Atlantic in the late 1700s as the 
French and American populaces revolt against their monarchies and form 
new governments. For Kindred, revolution means violence, an overthrowing 
of all things old and a risk of the Final Death (all of which elders are 
notoriously intolerant of), but it also means opportunities for those who avoid 
the swing of the axe. Quite often, conflict means new blood (bothofEmbraces 
and in positions of power). 
The American Revolution sees the Colonies refuse to bow to an 
increasingly overbearing English monarchy and turn against England to win 
their freedom. American Kindred (ancillae who came with the original 
colonists, neonates born in the Colonies or Sabbat riding the violence) 
occasionally lend aid, seeing this as their chance to separate their fates from 
the European elders. 
The French Revolution is far more bloodthirsty than the American. 
During the Reign of Terror, mob rule takes over, and the monarchy and 
its supports die in wholesale slaughter. Not a few Kindred (who may well 
be responsible for the misery that incites the mobs) die at their hands - 
after all, Madame Guillotine never sleeps. Thousands die before the 
violence begins to gnaw on itself. Robespierre, architect of the Revolu- 
tion, dies at the hands of a madness he helped to create. While mortals 
see the French Revolution as a great triumph of reason over superstition 
and privilege, the Kindred often find it a different story. Many Kindred 
flee France entirely or go into hiding to avoid the mobs. Anarchs and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sabbat find the violence to be excellent cover for their own activities. 
Could neonates make a similar discovery when it comes to dealing with 
a hated sire? 
THE 
ROMANTICS 
This is considered an age of gentility and grace, or at least if one is 
living the country life. This is the era of Jane Austen and Emily Bronte, 
of the Romantics and the original Gothic period. This is also the begin- 
ning of the end of the pastoral life of much of the western world as 
industrialization begins. 
The Romantic sensibility so prevalent in this time sees the new changes 
of industrialization and technology to be the road to disaster: Technology will 
separate man from nature, bringing prosperity to a few but overall misery for 
the greater population. The writings of this era (reflected in the work of 
Coleridge, Blake, Shelley and Burns, among others) speak of both the 
vanishing country world and the growing oppression that progress sows. For 
vampires, such changes are not unwelcome: The industrial revolution means 
many neonates and ancillae who invested in the new (which elders often 
avoid) profit from their risks. 
Industrialisim rapidly turns into a curse for the lower classes, worked as 
slave-labor in the factories. A select few profit while many suffer. The 
urbanization of the working class, often living in desperation, means new 
prey, minions and allies for Kindred. Some Kindred find it filthy living and 
hunting, while others who are city-born and bred (or who have moved there 
out of circumstances) grow influence and learn secrets that the “high-born” 
rarely encounter. 
The French Empire (under Sicilian-born Napoleon Bonaparte) and 
the English Regency periods coincide during the early part of this era. 
This marks a period of great gentility and grace, the time of the country 
gentlemen with their estates, of “the season” in London, or holidays to 
“take the waters.” The novels of Jane Austen and Elizabeth Gaskell 
describe this time of manners and mores. Shortly after follows Gothic 
sensibility, described by the Bronte sisters and Anne Radcliffe - 
a time 
of gloomy days and dark nights, of crumbling castles and madwomen left 
in attics. Elysia of this time, therefore, have a much different timbre, one 
that elders and ancillae might enjoy, and the neonates find at once 
familiar and utterly confusing. How do the newly Embraced young 
women of the day understand how Cainite women seize power, hold 
office or otherwise act “unladylike?” What measures would a Cainite sire 
take to make his sheltered childe understand that Regency manners no 
longer apply? 
THE 
CIVIL WAR 
Palatial mansions and textile factories, slavery and suffrage: The United 
States during the antebellum era is a bundle of contradictions. In the South, 
it is the time of plantations, exquisite Southern gentility and the dark misery 
of slavery. In the North, it is a time ofwild growth, from the factories to groups 
agitating for causes ranging from women’s rights to the abolition of slavery. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Industrialism reaches the United States, but the country is sharply divided by 
economic and ideological differences. 
The fight is one of the bitterest, often dividing families (and perhaps 
coteries or bloodlines) along ideological fronts, or between ancestral lands 
and modem circumstances. The physical cost is terrible: thousands dead, the 
South reduced to rubble, a country gnawing on itself. But America does 
survive in one piece. Sabbat see the time as a chance to attack elders esconced 
in their mansions while neonates in the North get in on the ground floor of 
industries that most elders have previously dismissed. 
The antebellum period is considered by many vampires to be some of 
their palmiest days. Elders find it reminiscent of the glories of older times 
when they had legions of servants to administer their lands and wait upon 
their command. Not a few Kindred of the modern nights can trace their 
histories back to a pedigreed birth and pampered upbringing as the offspring 
of wealthy plantations owners, or perhaps even owners in their own right. 
Some vampires use their plantations as feeding grounds, although at their 
own peri: Such abuse can result in slave uprisings, or a cunning wise-woman 
turning the tables on her family’s oppressor. Not a few Kindred borne of the 
conflict (whether it was the War Against Northern Agression, the War 
Between the States or some other title) still have strained relations with 
brethren who were on the opposite side, even in the modern nights. 
THE 
VICTORIAN 
ERA 
This era finds England at her summit, as a cultural and political capital, 
and as an imperial nation. By the end of the 19th century, London is the 
political and economic capital of the world Her holdings spread from 
Australia, India, China, Canada and nearly every comer of the globe, giving 
rise to the phrase “The sun never sets on the British Empire.” Of course, where 
the mortals go, the Kindred often follow, attempting to expand their own 
holdings and the Camarilla’s (usually in that order). But where the mortals 
might plow through the natives with the Bible, the railway and the gun, 
Kindred often encountered supernatural creatures the likes of which they had 
never seen. Many of the first encounters with the Cathayan vampires are 
reported during this time. Not every Kindred departing Europe was heading 
for the Dark Continent or the mysterious East for reasons of power, though - 
after all, few elders are likely to pursue troublesome neonates or ancillae into 
such dangerous places, which often means coteries involved in quarrels may 
choose to flee together to avoid powerful enemies. 
While it is hardly a time of kings and courts of two centuries past, 
there is certainly a “proper” way to do things, from dressing to manners 
to conducting business, and from this propriety arises the notorious 
prudishness and strictures that mark the time period. In Kindred society, 
which has such ideals already inculcated, courts and Elysiums practically 
calcify under the press of custom and manners. In some cases, neonates 
might find it comforting to discover that things are not so different after 
death while others nearly go mad to find themselves reduced to lower 
straits upon their Embraces. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Among the most shocking developments to the Kindred world is the 
appearance of Bram Stoker’s Dracula, along with stories like “Carmilla” and 
Polidori’s “The Vampyre.” The sudden pictures of vampires moving through 
modern society as predators stirs up panic as the Camarilla hunts for the 
Kindred responsible for the breach of the Masquerade. Is it truly the 
Masquerade faltering, or perhaps a brilliant attempt to further display 
vampires as fancies and fictions rather than true predators? Even the Sabbat 
are in awe of this monumental risk to vampiric existence. Whatever it truly 
is, vampire fiction becomes something of a novelty in the Elysiums and 
spawns dozens of mortal fans enticed by the barely concealed sexual 
metaphors and elegant predation. 
America during this era busily plows through one turbulent time after 
another -the westward expansion, the Civil War, the Age of Innocence - 
but always with an eye on Europe’s fashion and culture. The new millionaires 
head for Europe to purchase whatever trappings their wealth can bring them, 
from mansions to furnishings to pedigrees. Young American women of the 
“right” standing become some of the most expensive bartered brides of the 
century as the tottering European nobility infuses its stock with American 
blood and money, perhaps literally in some cases. This time can make for an 
intriguing chronicle of American-born neonates being Embraced by Euro- 
pean ancillae - 
and the resulting culture clash. 
THE 
(+EAT WAR 
The invention of the automobile brings about a new mobility, and 
Kindred find the idea of picking up and moving a little less traumatic than 
before. Women agitate for the right to vote on both sides of the ocean - 
the 
movement is hardly a new one, but it gains strength during this era, finally 
culminating in America with the passage of the 19th Amendment. Strangely, 
for Kindred, this is not necessarily anything new-not afew of the most adept 
princes or archons are women. 
Prior to and after the Great War, empires around Europe totter and 
crumble. In some places, the monarchy simply and quietly fades from view. 
The most violent of these quakes occurs in Russia, as the Bolsheviks force Czar 
Nicholas I1 to abdicate. The subsequent execution of the Romanov royal 
family not only frightens many European monarchs (most of whom were 
related to the Romanovs), but also shocks many Kindred elders, who recall 
the horrors of the Anarch Revolt. The complacency they have slid into over 
the past centuries regarding the “proper way” to do things is rudely shattered, 
and marks the beginning of the modern era for them. The ensuing years see 
elders keeping an exceptionally close eye on their childer. 
Nineteen-year-old Gavrillo Princip assassinates Archduke Ferdinand 
and his wife the Duchess Sophie, and the simmering tensions in Europe 
erupt into full-scale conflict. For the first time, the world is engaged in war 
on a global scale. In the past, wars had been between leaders or principali- 
ties, but now entire countries under a single dictum engage each other. 
Worse yet is the apparent abandonment of “civilized” forms of war: Poison 
gas, machine guns, primitive tanks and other weapons allow soldiers to cut 
broad swaths across their enemies, horrifying politicians and civilians 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
alike. When the war is finally ended, 64 nations band together to sign the 
Kellogg-Briand Pact, an attempt to make war illegal. Meanwhile, at 
Versailles, several European nations and the United States put together 
a treaty to officially end the Great War; among its statements is a “war- 
guilt clause,” forcing Germany to accept responsibility for the destruction 
that has just been wrought. It is an act that many will regret, for in that 
are sown the seeds of worse to come. 
The full horror of the conflict catches some Kindred by surprise. Those 
unprepared are swept away by anarchs and Sabbat seeking to capitalize on the 
chaos or by misguided mortals. In Russia, the Soviet Revolution rips up 
Kindred society as Brujah attempt to ride the coattails of the people’s 
revolution against the Ventrue. Some conspiracy theorists among Kindred 
point to the fact that Gavrillo Princip was part of a group called the Black 
Hand (another name for the Sabbat), and speak of the war being started by 
the Sabbat to cover for other violence. 
THE 
R O A R I N C ~  
‘20s 
A N D  C ~ R E A T  DEPRESSION 
The 1920s roar for a reason -for 
many, it means celebrating war’s end 
and new prosperity. This time is popping with all manner of exciting 
developments - 
from radio to postsSoviet revolution to the flappers and 
rumrunners. The last of Victorian strictures collapse by the wayside, reduced 
to ridiculousness or left outdated by the past decades’ changes. While 
American Kindred enjoy new prosperity, the European Kindred often struggle 
to rebuild their resources from the tatters left after the Great War. Not a few 
are reduced to nothing when the dust settles. 
In 1919, the United States outlaws alcohol, a culmination of years 
of temperance protests to the evils of drink. Instead of preventing 
alcohol consumption, Prohibition only encourages people to find ways 
around it. Organized crime grows exponentially from early gangs of 
rumrunners. Some Kindred on the fringes take the advantage to enter 
into the business, become involved with the gangs or even use the 
speakeasies as feeding-grounds. Those with ties to the police may either 
aid and abet allies in the mob or use the police raids to move against 
competition. The growth of organized crime occasionally conflicts with 
vampiric power-bases, leading to shadowy wars against enemies that 
many mobsters can barely believe in. The cauldron of Chicago’s orga- 
nized criminals versus the Cainites versus Elliot Ness and his 
Untouchables might make for a chronicle of both tommy-guns and 
shadowy predation. 
In Oct. 1929, the Stock Market crashes, ruining lives and fortunes across 
the US. Germany’s economy has collapsed two years prior in response to the 
Great War. Several banks fail, trade drops and investments sink. The world 
is truly in the grip of misery. Many Kindred prefer not to speculate in risky 
ventures, but some seeking opportunity get a rude awakening. What happens 
when a Kindred loses everything or when his best mortal allies hurl them- 
selves from the roofs after their fortunes collapse? 
The new film industry spurs great interest among many young Toreador, 
while their elders decry it as “vulgar.” With the arrival of the first films, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
Kindred adventurous enough to enter a movie house see the sun rise and other 
daylight activities they can barely remember. It also has its risks, as Obfus- 
cated vampires discover how their Discipline fails them under the camera. 
Radio also becomes a popular medium, especially for those wanting a crack at 
stardom without the risk of being seen by too many. No doubt a few Nosferatu 
find this an excellent way to exercise talents that the Toreador disdain. How 
many neonates skip Elysium or arrive late because they were listening to their 
favorite radio show (to the dismay of their elders, of course)?The arrival of the 
silent film “Nosferatu” with its mysterious leading man (a little-known actor 
by the name of Max Shreck) surely provokes panic for the Masquerade. 
Florence Stoker, widow of Bram Stoker, launches a successful suit against the 
filmmakers, and every print of the film is destroyed.. . or is it? 
The relative silence of the Sabbat during this time ensures brisk 
activity among Camarilla Kindred, although the silence is not from lack 
of interest on the part of the Sabbat. The Sabbat is engaged in the second 
of its destructive civil wars, brought about by fighting over the opportu- 
nities of the Great War and the early Depression. The Code of Milan, 
created in 1933, finally puts an end to the fighting, at least for the 
moment. Like the mortals, they attempt to outlaw war between them- 
selves. Like the mortals, they are unsuccessful. 
WORLD 
WAR 
I I 
The seeds sown at the table in Versailles bear bitter fruit in Germany. 
Adolph Hitler rises to the Chancellorship, claiming that he will restore 
Germany’s dignity and pride in itself. Even as he encourages pride in the 
Teutonic past, Hitler lays the blame for Germany’s misery squarely at the 
feet of “undesirables,” especially Jews. Little by little, Jewish freedom is 
whittled away. The beginning of open hostility arrives with Kristullnucht in 
November 1938. 
Hitler enters Austria without incident in March of 1938, and Poland 
in September of 1939. France and England, fearing Hitler’s ambition, 
declare war too late. For its defiance, Britain suffers through a campaign 
of nightly air attacks called the Blitzkrieg (“lightning war”). Many Britons 
spend their nights huddling in the subways tunnels below London or 
hiding in backyard bomb shelters. Some brave souls stand watch on the 
roofs of historical buildings like St. Paul’s Cathedral, ready with buckets 
of water to douse any blaze and are often thanked generously (if covertly) 
by Kindred who would prefer not to see London in flames again (the Great 
Fire of 1666 was enough for them). Children are evacuated across the sea 
from besieged London (perhaps along with precious childer) until the u- 
boats target the vessels, then to the English countryside. Meanwhile, 
France endures Nazi occupation, and worse, the personal betrayal of the 
Vichy government as their own countrymen work with the invaders. 
Everywhere the Nazis go, the Jews are deported and put on trains of cattle 
cars, bound for the work camps or gas chambers. 
America’s situation on the homefront was one of readiness and 
sacrifice for the war effort. Women gave up their silk hose for parachutes 
and went to work in the factories, families grew victory gardens and lived 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


4 
I 
on rations of butter, sugar and meat. Having witnessed how the British 
were faring, their attitude was to be prepared for anything that came their 
way. It didn’t help that America had two fronts to watch - 
those on the 
East Coast feared the Germans, but those on the West Coast feared the 
Japanese, especially after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Thinking to avert a 
potential crisis of Japanese spies in their midst, the government orders all 
Japanese-Americans into internment camps. Such a “solution” could 
surely bring out Cathayan vampires, enraged at the treatment of their 
relatives. It is also not unlikely that some unscrupulous Kindred haunt the 
barracks of Topaz and other camps for feeding grounds, or suddenly find 
certain contacts have been shipped off. 
Rumors occasionally circulate regarding how the Tremere’s Vienna 
stronghold survived the Anschloss when Hitler’s army entered Austria, 
and none speak well of the Tremere. European Kindred either find new 
places to hide or flee the violence by sailing for America. Trans-Atlantic 
crossings grow increasingly dangerous as the war progresses, risking the 
various blockades and military vessels prowling the waters. Should Kin- 
dred survive the passage, there’s not necessarily going to be room in the 
city when they arrive- 
many cities strain to the breaking point as 
balances of power teeter with the arrival of Old-world newcomers. The 
American Kindred are not always glad to see their European relatives 
(particularly when Old World demands for power and respect are made), 
and the risks to the Masquerade skyrocket when a dozen more mouths to 
feed show up. A “homefront” chronicle can be an excellent choice for 
those wishing to run a story during wartime with a large range of characters 
or without getting into theatres of war. 
THE 
HOLOCAUST 
While many Kindred brag about their body counts, or how one more 
massacre is hardly different from the rest, the Holocaust strikes a dissonant 
chord throughout the World of Darkness. The numbers stagger - 
countless 
“undesirables” from homosexuals to political dissidents to Jehovah’s Wit- 
nesses, thousands of Rrom and six million Jews. Rarely has genocide been 
practiced on such a massive scale, with such methodical precision or with 
such complete cooperation. 
For all their bragging about their close ties to the Rrom, neither the 
Gangrel nor the Ravnos do much to help their “favored” Herds’ suffering. Dark 
rumors still circulate that unscrupulous Tremere and Tzimisce used camp 
victims as subjects for unsavory experiments, while opportunistic vampires of 
the Camarilla and Sabbat haunted the barracks as feeding grounds. 
Several international organizations make it their business to track those 
Nazis who escaped justice following the war, and most keep detailed files of 
officers and camp officials, including photographs. A Kindred who appears no 
different from his 1939 photos is going to attract immediate attention from 
Nazi-hunters. Agencies like Mossad or Interpol often have international 
cooperation, and even the Inquisition is hard-pressed to keep up with these 
zealous hunters. Very few princes are likely to be pleased when a former war 
criminal Kindred brings such hunters to his door. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


T ~ ~ ‘ 5 0 . s  
The years following the end of World War I1 and the atomic bomb on 
Hiroshima find Kindred young and old reconsidering the mortal world with 
frightened eyes. Humanity finally has the power to wipe the planet clean of 
all life for centuries with the atomic bomb. What would these people do if they 
encounter vampires in their midst? The Masquerade takes on paramount 
importance: Even the youngest neonates are impressed with the seriousness 
of the situation in a way that elders’ droning tales of the Burning Times never 
reached them. Across Europe, the Iron Curtain drops across countries under 
the shadow of communism, along with a concomitant Shadow Curtain that 
traps many supernaturals behind barbed wire and stranger barriers. 
The McCarthy hearings and the hunt for Communists spur many 
elders to dive for cover as they begin to emerge from the nights of WWII. 
As names are blacklisted, and people are called up to explain their “un- 
American” activities or hounded out of town for being too different, many 
elder Kindred are uncomfortably reminded of the witch-hunts of centuries 
previous. While elders might prefer to lay low and wait for more hospitable 
times, neonates and ancillae who can adapt to change (and stay out of 
McCarthy’s searchlights) are likely to find this time ripe with potential. 
There is a great deal of rebuilding going on, and for some, this is an 
unparalleled opportunity to get in on the ground floor when someone 
abruptly disappears. Likewise, some Kindred lose valuable mortal allies 
when they are called before the Senate committees and lose the jobs that 
made them so valuable. 
Clashes between counter-culture versus the mainstream start to erupt, 
and in some cases, it’s hard to tell which side is which. Rock-n-roll, with its 
mongrel musical pedigree, starts out as rebellion, but the end of the decade 
sees Elvis, Buddy Holly, the Beatles and similar stars rocketing into the 
mainstream. Is television tripe, or a new medium? Surely there are neonates 
and ancillae finding excuses to skip Elysium when it conflicts with “The 
Honeymooners.” What of the Beat writers? Some elders may simply smile 
away most of the changes as the energy of youth is funneled into “accept- 
able” channels while others may fret about the potential rebellion that rock 
music may be breeding. The Toreador surely have much fuel for debate in 
the Elysia over the decade 
A third civil war erupts among the Sabbat in 1957, lasting only about 
100 nights. Disease from careless feeding and Embraces racks the rank- 
and-file. Joseph Pander leads the Caitiff against the Sabbat leadership to 
demand more than simply the right to exist. The treaty results in the 
creation of the Panders, a “clan” of the Clanless. It is generally viewed by 
the Caitiff leadership and older members as a bone thrown, but it does 
keep the rabble quiet. 
T ~ 6 ‘ 6 0 s  
The ‘60s are a time of violent social change. Many youth rebel against 
the strictures of the  OS, raging against social norms, what they perceive 
as a wasteful conflict in Vietnam and the very real potential of the world 
going up in flames. Minorities agitate for long-overdue change, demand- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ing the right to be treated as human beings. Artists stretch their bound- 
aries and push the envelope in every medium. Everywhere, it’s about going 
against the “Establishment,” against a grain too staid for its own good. 
How are newly Embraced Kindred youth likely to view elders and princes? 
Coming in from the Cold War, where the young mortals don’t trust their 
elders not to push the button that starts Armageddon for personal gain, 
neonates perceive vampiric elders as even less trustworthy. This time sees 
massive defections to the anarch cause and even open rebellion against 
older Kindred. 
Counterculture of this time includes music even wilder than the 
previous decade, with the Doors, Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin. Neonates 
may be found down at Whiskey-A-Go-Go in Los Angeles or in the Haight 
neighborhood of San Francisco seeking new excitement. Depending on 
where Kindred feed, there’s every chance that they may encounter a drug- 
using vessel, and psychotropic drugs can induce all sorts of interesting 
effects. The darker side includes personality cults, such as Charlie Manson, 
drawing the disaffected to their banners. With so many mortal gurus, who 
would notice the few vampires who gather similar herds for blood or money? 
The struggle for civil rights for African-Americans culminates 
during this time, with marches, lunch counter sit-ins, boycotts and 
rallies by leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Further north, 
Malcolm X and the Nation of Islam seek similar goals but with far 
different means and words. Kindred with any interest in the mortal 
world cannot help but become enveloped by the conflict. Blacks in any 
clan are likely stirred by events in the mortal world, while some elders 
see the makings of another Anarch Revolt (after all, it was peasants 
agitating for rights from their lords that was the cover for the original). 
Elysia may find their claims of non-violence within their walls hard to 
maintain when racist Kindred clash with their black or more civil- 
minded brethren. The race riots that rock many cities following the 
assassination of Dr. King leave them in flames, with vampires scram- 
bling to get out of the way of rioting mobs. 
TH 
e MODERN 
NIC~HTS 
The modern nights are all about change, usually swift and often 
violent. This is where most chronicles are set, and where many 
neonates knew their breathing days, starting from the ‘70s. A leader 
assassinated, a fashion trend begun or ended, a hiccup in the stock 
market, and the world will know in the blink of an eye via television 
or the Internet. Even some neonates are occasionally rushing to keep 
up with changes, while their elders are nearly paralyzed with fright by 
the wild, headlong rush of progress. Many fear the imminent approach 
of Gehenna nightly, and as the world hurtles into the 21st century, 
perhaps they are not so wrong. 
The Gothic-Punk sensibility that so characterizes the World of 
Darkness originates from the twin movements of punk and Goth, two 
musical waves spawned by popular culture. Lyrics turn to disturbing 
subject matter, such as war, drugs, insanity or murder. The musical 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


extreme first evolves to punk, which boils out of London and spills over 
to the United States. The lyrics revolve around violent material, the 
music is equally so. Punk seems to be all about violence, speed, hard 
edges and garish colors, and it is the pierced flesh, angry rebellion and 
clenched fists that it lends to the World of Darkness. Bands like the Sex 
Pistols and the Ramones characterize the music, while metal spikes, 
brightly dyed hair, combat boots and battered leather characterize the 
look. The hedonism of punk bands often draws neonates to their 
banners, and many young vampires find the music an excellent way to 
irritate their elders. The Goth movement grows out of punk, a shift from 
the garish to shadowy, from the wild to the eerie. Goth bands include 
Siouxie and the Banshees, Bauhaus and Sisters of Mercy, and the range 
of music runs broader, from ethereal haunting tunes to rapid beats 
backed with a clashing guitar. The movement emphasizes the darker side 
of life, whether that be in desperation or violence, and offers Gothic- 
Punk flowing black, morbid outlooks, ornate architecture and the 
unrelenting despair found in the cities. 
The modern nights also see a new trend toward vampires as “fash- 
ionable.”From bands that describe romantic death to sub-culture practices 
of blood-drinking and biting during sex to popular novels and film, 
vampires are suddenly “in.” While in many ways the excitement re- 
sembles the flap over Dracula all over again, some Kindred worry that 
this time, there are more potential ways to break the Masquerade: 
Ignorant mortal youths pretending to be vampires may bring harder 
scrutiny from mortal authorities (and who knows when one of those 
scrutinizing might be someone who knows the truth?). Neonates more 
often see it as excellent cover for their own activities, and occasionally 
some Caitiff hide themselves among the pretenders, using the mortal 
wannabes for their own protection. 
W H E N  YOU HAVETO 
SAY No 
Recall how often in Laws of the Night we said, “Try to avoid saying ‘no’ 
outright” or something similar? Well, we lied. Sometimes, someone comes 
to you with a character concept, a story idea or a character action that you 
find unacceptable. Could it be the player who can barely fake being sick who 
wants to create an elder? Maybe it’s the Nosferatu whose information 
continually skirts into meta-gaming territory, or the Tremere who insists 
that he can create nuclear material with Alchemy. Whatever it is, you have 
trouble in the works, and it comes in the form of a player looking at you with 
soulful eyes. And here’s one of the most onerous tasks of the Storyteller - 
denying a request. 
Many times, certain requests can be dismissed with the wave of a hand: 
“Can I buy Garou Lore, ‘cause my Gangrel ran with a pack and got made an 
honorary Garou?” Other times, it takes a bit more planning: “Hey, can my 
Toreador buy Health Influence?”( when you’ve capped the Influence). What- 
ever sort of denial it must be, here’s some ways to get to it. 
Let’s say Joe Player made a request that made your hair curl, mostly 
because he apparently pulled it out of his butt without any rhyme or reasons 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


(“Hey, I want my character to learn Swahili!”). There’s nothing wrong with 
asking him to explain the what and wherefore of this new enterprise (‘IS0 
why do you want to learn this, and how are you going to go about doing it?“). 
After all, nothing exists in a vacuum - 
even the character wanting to 
improve his culture can be a good enough reason. Sometimes, a subtle 
reminder to the player to think before asking can save a great deal of grief 
and give you some insight into where your players are going (not to mention 
considering some story seeds for later). If Joe still can’t come up with a 
decent reason why his character should have Swahili, hasn’t got a clue 
where his character is going to learn this and can’t give you a single reason 
in the world why he should have it, then the answer can be no. This same 
approach can be used for someone who comes up with a character concept 
that just looks like a bunch of neat tricks held together with safety pins and 
baling wire - 
the sample character creations in the main rulebooks should 
give you some ideas about how a Storyteller sits down with a player and says, 
in the nicest, most sincere tone she can muster: “What were you thinking?” 
So you said “no,” because it needed saying - 
great. Then comes 
the dreaded “But why?” So, why did you do it? If you can’t come up with 
a reason beyond, “’Cause it was stupid,” you’re going to look a little 
foolish yourself. When choosing to deny something, remember why 
you’re doing it. Is it because the the player didn’t think enough about 
the concept? Point it out to her - she may not realize she did 
something less than stellar. What about someone who’s attempting to 
buy more Influence in a category that’s become saturated? Perhaps 
show her in downtime that all her efforts just aren’t panning out. The 
flat-out “NO” with no further discussion behind it whatsoever should 
be used only in extreme cases, like the Bastet Abomination with 
Numina and Spheres. Once you come up with a reason, make it sound, 
stick to it and remember it. It looks very fishy when you deny some- 
thing to one player then give it to another. 
L A Y I N ~ T H E  
C ~ R B A T  SMACKDOWN 
These are the days when you have great sympathy and respect for parents 
everywhere: You’ve got to discipline someone who’s being a problem. The girl 
who keeps showing up late and disrupting the action in a major way when she 
does make her grand entrance. The guy who likes showing off his cast of 
cartoon-voice imitations. Whatever they’re doing, they’re being a problem, 
and it’s yours to solve, ‘cause you’re the Storyteller. 
Many times, the player isn’t aware he’s being problematic. Snag him 
when he comes in the door or at a time outside the game and sit him down for 
a private chat. Lay out your grievance clearly (“Joe, I really wish you would 
quit breaking character to quote Star Wars, because it’s disruptive to the 
mood.) and what you would like to see done about it (“Could you save your 
repertoire for another time?”). Don’t leave the table until you have something 
settled. Be clear in what the problem is and what you want to see done about 
it so there’s no confusion over what’s at stake. 
Okay, you had your private talk with Joe Player about his inappropriate 
behavior, and you thought he’d listened. Nope -next week, his Jar-Jar Binks 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


imitation can be heard across the Elysium. If you know some of Joe’s friends, 
then ask them if they could point out to him that he’s being a pain; they may 
be equally bugged by his behavior. If they know you’re unhappy, that can give 
them a little incentive to help their friend avoid the Storyteller’s wrath. Plus, 
he might be more inclined to listen to his friends rather than enduring the 
Storyteller’s “nagging.” 
Unfortunately, a figurative smack upside the head does occasionally 
seem to be the only thing that some problem people hear. It could be the 
docking of an experience point or unwelcome attention from the prince 
(some Old-world princes might look very dimly on hearing some wise-ass 
Yoda quote during court). However it’s done, it should be done consistently 
every time Joe misbehaves. This should be a stick reserved for repeat offenses 
when the previous two suggestions have failed to produce results. A sudden 
and immediate use of this stick for a first-time offense that was in all likelihood 
an honest mistake is a bit harsh. 
Finally there’s the most extreme case, the one who will not listen, the 
one where you’ve tried everything in the book, the one who’s become 
quite literally the bane of your game, or the one that did something so 
grievous it bypasses the other three options (the player showed up trashed 
or broke one of the major rules of MET). That’s when you ask the 
troublemaker to please leave and not let the door hit him on the way out. 
State that you have asked the player to mend his ways, that he has not 
lived up to that and that you are not going to let him disrupt other players’ 
fun. He may stomp out and say that’s the end. Well, that may be, but you 
have a troupe to worry about. Again, this is the most extreme case and a 
last resort. It’s unpleasant when it must be done, but if it means the health 
of your chronicle, then swallow hard. 
I CAN’T 
D o  THAT 
BECAUSE... 
How many times have you come up with a plot idea, started developing 
it, then suddenly got cold feet? Chances are, one of the motives down below 
had something to do with it. 
... I Don’t Know Enough About X 
Hie yourself to the library or the Internet and do some honest-to- 
goodness research - 
it’s that simple. You don’t need to become an expert on 
the subject, but you do need to have some basics to start the plot rolling, and 
you’ll need to know where to go when the questions start flying. There’s very 
little that can make you look more foolish than looking at a player’s well- 
thought-out question and giving some half-baked answer that is really, ‘‘I 
dunno.” This does not mean you need to go break into the CDC to find out 
if it can be done; there are some lines that should not be crossed. If you find 
yourself dealing with such a subject, get out your God-given imagination and 
put it to work. 
... Someone Might Get Offended 
A wise Storyteller takes into consideration when material might be 
offensive. Hot topics such as religion, intolerance, race relations or 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sexuality can result in hurt feelings out of game if they’re handled 
inappropriately. If you’re thinking about taking the game in a new 
direction that includes such material, send out a feeler or two to see if the 
topic pushes the wrong buttons or if your troupe is ready to handle a 
challenge. Keep a weather eye out for players who are suddenly reluctant 
to come to the game or who are being unusually combative. This assumes, 
of course, that you’re treating the material with respect and dignity. If 
you’re throwing in rape, domestic violence, child abuse or other touchy 
topics without thought or for shock value, don’t look surprised when folks 
get mad enough to walk. 
... So-and-so Threatened to Walk Because She Said the Story Would 
Wreck Her Character 
Never allow a player to hold the game hostage to her whims. Just because 
someone’s a prince/elder/big cheese does not make her the be-all end-all. If 
she did something foolish in character (such as break the Masquerade on 
national television), then she deserves what comes next. Call her bluff. If she 
does decide to walk, then let her. You don’t need such aggravation. 
... It’s Too Big/Complicated 
Don’t automatically discard an idea because you think it’s too big - 
dreaming big comes naturally with Storytelling. Better to think realistically, 
such as whether you have adequate resources to Storytell such a plotline in its 
entirety. Will you have enough Narrators to assist you? Will the plotline as 
it stands snag player interest? Sometimes things that look too large can be 
broken down into parts that are easier to swallow: You may find that you have 
several (smaller) plotlines that could eventually lead back to your original 
idea. You may also find that out of these broken-up parts, you have a plot 
thread that’s more clearly defined than the first. 
... It’s a Dumb Idea 
Three film students get lost in the woods making a movie. A bunch of girls 
start having seizures and blame it on witchcraft. Dinosaurs are re-created with 
DNA found in old mosquitoes. The only dumb idea is one that hasn’t been 
tried. Presentation is what makes or breaks an idea. If you’re psyched about the 
idea and let the players know you’re psyched by how you present the idea 
(news stories, richly descriptive scenes), that will get them interested. Players 
can sense when you’re not giving a scene your all, and if you think that 
something’s corny, they will pick up on that and find it difficult to follow the 
material too. 
... The Material Is Too Mature 
This can go a number of directions. Stop and look at the whole 
equation. Does your player base consist of mostly young players? Do you 
find yourself running a chronicle for a bunch of gun bunnies who prefer to 
shoot first and think later? Do you have some players who have some 
personal, out-of-game stake in the material you’re about to present or who 
are shy about getting involved? 
With younger players, you may have players who are not socially 
or emotionally ready for what you’re planning, and your game is 
probably not the place for them to learn about it. Redirect such 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


material away from them entirely or replace it. If there’s discomfort or 
anger from folks, stop immediately. If you learn someone has an out-of- 
character tie to the issue, ask him how he’d like to handle it, and be 
open to what he has to say, including, “Um, could I just not follow this 
anymore?” It’s a lot less headache to adjust a plotline than to lose a 
player to bad feelings. In the case of the gun bunnies, a mature topic 
might be a good addition to the game to subtly (or not so subtly) prod 
the players into improving their roleplaying. 
... People will think I’m a (Fill in the Blank) 
Pervert - 
Racist - 
Homophobe - 
Anti-Semite - 
whatever. 
One of the most delicate areas to walk through as a Storyteller is when 
the story calls for a character to behave in a hateful way, one that may hurt 
feelings out of game. In simple, make it clear to folks that you the person 
do not believe in what this character is saying. Even a quick, “Hey, just 
wanted to say, I’m not this sort of asshole in real life,” at the end or 
beginning of the scene can be all it takes. Treat the material with dignity, 
which sounds odd, but translates to, “Don’t be gratutious. Unless it serves 
a purpose, don’t use it.” 
... Something Just Doesn’t Feel Right 
We all have a gut feeling left over from the human race’s early days 
of hunting and gathering - 
that little voice in the ear or the metaphysi- 
cal tap on the shoulder that tells us when something might not be 
kosher. It’s better known as instinct. If your instinct is sending off alarm 
bells, tapping your shoulder or otherwise alerting you, stop a moment 
and try to pin down what the problem is. Is it the subject or theme of a 
new plotline? Is it a player who’s being unusually canny about avoiding 
certain perils? Is it the sudden decrease in Tremere characters? Did a 
normally outgoing player suddenly get very quiet when you introduced 
a plotline that included rape or a stalker? 
Instinct isn’t usually one for false alarms. We have that little feeling for 
a reason, whether it was to warn us about walking into‘a cave that might be 
a bear’s den or to point out a game problem we’ve been rationalizing away. If 
it’s a player, find her out of game and have a talk or make a discreet inquiry 
among people you trust. If there’s a genuine problem, then get busy with it. 
THE 
SMART PLAYER 
~ 
You spent months plotting out this puzzler, convinced that most of your 
players would spend the next year working on it. It was full of pitfalls, from 
Influence traps to red-herring research. You released it into the chronicle on 
Saturday. Two months later, you realize that one player, through her character’s 
savvy research and detective work, is about to crack the whole thing wide 
open. Influence traps? She avoided them by her own regular actions of 
networking and cover-up. Pitfalls? A couple of them slowed her down, but not 
for long. Congratulations - 
you have a smart player! 
Smart players can be as much burden as they are boon. It can be very 
helpful to have go-get-‘em folks who love to worry at a puzzle like a dog 
with a bone. These folks can please themselves for hours on end while 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


they hunt for clues and come up with some surprising finds, and often 
without much help from you. They are often proactive people in the 
chronicle who are good at making their own fun and at involving other 
characters to assist their research. On the other hand, it can drag down 
things tremendously to have a player who nitpicks every detail and 
demands that every inquiry be answered encyclopedically, not to men- 
tion a player whose entertainment needs exceed what the average player 
base wants. At worst, such players can easily get bored and act up in ways 
that can rip a chronicle apart, just so they can have a challenge (not 
unlike gifted students in a “normal” class). 
Don’t punish a smart player whose character is a good research hound or 
who manages to avoid the pitfalls that other players seem to walk into. You’re 
wasting a potentially valuable resource, not to mention that it sends the 
message that you punish players who “ruin” your clever plotting. Instead, 
think about what you can do to prolong her run enough to get things caught 
up, or how you can utilize this underestimated resource. 
Never underestimate the value of the red herring. Even Jung and 
Einstein followed wild tangents or lines of research that never panned 
out and gone some interesting places in the process. The red herring is 
a fine way to buy some time should a plot be in danger of getting busted 
open too soon. However, don’t get dependent on them - 
there’s a point 
where it’s going to look painfully obvious. Remember what you threw 
out in this go-around, because a red herring for this plotline may be a 
signpost to something else. 
Some smart players enjoy being smart by themselves, i.e., they hoard 
their hard-won information, gloat over their hoard like a miser with his gold, 
and don’t share well. Consider throwing a nugget into another player’s 
possession through his downtime or another line of research he’s working on. 
Eventually the hunter’s going to have to come out and socialize for that clue 
and will hopefully do so well. Done properly, this can slow down your target 
for a couple months, particularly if the other character has all the recalci- 
trance of a snapping turtle. A few such redirections can keep the player going 
without being aware of getting slowed down. 
Players who are heavily into researching and hunting for clues eat up 
things like history and background. Most Storytellers create large histories 
for their chronicles to explain how their cities and Kindred relations got to 
their current state. How much of that ever gets seen by the players? Probably 
not a lot, and that can be a little discouraging to think that all that work is 
going to go unseen. If you have a player who loves to research and piece 
things together from the past, consider mining some tidbits from your back 
story and seeding them into her downtime results (if they’re relevant). It 
can be a great way to get some of that grunt work you did into play. And you 
never know if the seed you planted early on will blossom into a full-fledged 
plot down the road. 
On the flip side, there’s covering the bases, and then there’s just plain 
ridiculous. For example, the player of a Salubri is researching a disease that’s 
recently cropped up among Kindred. The player also just read The Hot Zone 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


(which details the discovery of the ebola virus) and has more than a passing 
interest in diseases like ebola, so she asks some pretty penetrating questions 
of the Storyteller - 
she’s asking if she can use Obeah even when she’s in an 
isolation suit, trying to determine what type of virus it is, plotting out five 
different courses of research (and has given you outlines of everything). The 
Storyteller also read The Hot Zone and some articles on the Web, but hasn’t 
done nearly the same amount research as the player. Now what? On one 
hand, it’s cool to see that the player is getting so much enjoyment out of the 
plot; on the other hand, trying to follow five courses of research is a tad 
much. Your best bet is to acknowledge (however briefly) the work that the 
player put in to her downtime before you determine if she’s spent enough 
time and resources to get certain answers. If nothing else, the player is 
reassured that you are at least looking at the downtime and not tossing 
answers off the top of your head. Here’s a good place to point out that 
sometimes you may dig your own hole with this problem. If you’re the sort 
of Storyteller who likes to emphasize that the devil’s in the details (and the 
most crucial ones always seem to be in the questions a player doesn’t ask), 
you don’t have much room to gripe when your players start pulling 20 
Questions in their downtimes in an effort to cover their bases. 
Someone can demolish puzzles without a thought, and now, bored, sets 
out to chase Praxis or primogen, or simply to wreak havoc. And all because 
he’s bored. If he’s got that much extra energy, find out if he’d be good to put 
on detail as an Assistant Storyteller, perhaps doing research for you or writing 
in-character news articles. It works out some of the boundless creativity and 
will either shut him up when he starts griping about some problem in the 
game, or he’ll learn to put his money where his mouth is. 
Some players find it irritating that they must have a particular 
knowledge or Ability to even attempt to learn something-after 
all, their 
characters have gone to high school (or college) and learned the basics, 
and now they can’t even tell a da Vinci from a Monet? There are cases 
where it’s entirely necessary to demand specialized skills for research. 
Someone with Science: Entomology should have a better chance at iden- 
tifying a weird little moth than someone who’s simply using Academics or 
even Science: Biology. On the other hand, demanding that someone have 
Art History to do any sort of research on, say, the Mona Lisa, is frankly 
ridiculous. You may choose to ask them what Abilities, Backgrounds, 
Influences and other relevant material they’re bringing to the table when 
they’re doing their research if there’s a particular point that you feel 
should go to someone who has a better toehold on the material (special- 
ized study may allow someone to skip the basics that someone without that 
knowledge will have to wade through). 
Obviously, there’s a fine line between a player who makes a logical leap 
and one who metagames, and that line makes all the difference. If you’re 
concerned that someone is metagaming rather than puzzle-solving, it’s not 
out of line to ask her to show her paper trail. If something still looks fishy, have 
her work at it a little more, but don’t just toss her off. Something concrete like, 
“Most of your contacts have told you everything they can think of and 
probably some stuff they’ve made up, and they’ve run out of things to tell you 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


on this particular topic that you don’t already know ....” has a lot more 
meaning (not to mention story value) than “You come to a dead end.” 
THE 
INEORMATION 
A ~ E  
The Internet and e-mail are here and have settled in for what looks 
like a very long stay. Further, your savvy players have commandeered the 
Internet and e-mail as part and parcel of the game. Bad news? Only if you 
look at it that way. E-mail and the Internet can be one of your chronicle’s 
best friends if properly harnessed. For all the good it can do, the Web can 
also be a thorn in your metaphysical side. That big 01’ Internet can be a 
mighty scary place, and unfortunately, sometimes what you put in isn’t 
always what you get back. 
T H E  
WEB As YOUR ERIEND 
If you work odd hours or have players that do, e-mail can be a very helpful 
way to keep up communications instead of wasting a couple hours playing 
phone tag. It allows you to think about your answers and can provide a handy 
paper trail if things are disputed, or you have a less-than-perfect memory. E- 
mail lists can take care of a number of matters, from announcements from the 
prince to news regarding the game’s more mundane aspects. Some games use 
them to put out news stories of events that are taking place in their city, from 
conventions to strange murders. 
A Web site can be a fine place to throw lots of hard facts about the game, 
both story and mundane - 
venue descriptions, dates and times, directions, 
character creation limits. A single URL at the bottom of your flyer can 
direct potential new players to all the neat stuff you’d tell them about if you 
could stand at that flyer 24 hours a day. For players, this can be a spot to find 
out about an out-of-character social, get those last-minute directions or 
learn about the venue before bringing in an inappropriate character. If 
anyone is feeling really adventurous, e-mail links to characters and Story- 
tellers, game pictures, rogue’s galleries of characters, PDF files of character 
sheets and links to the coffeehouse the troupe patronizes can add pizzazz to 
something straightforward. 
The Web can be an invaluable research tool for digging up answers on 
a subject you barely know. A simple query in a search engine can return 
many places to research to your heart’s content; no matter how exotic the 
subject, chances are someone out there knows about it. E-commerce and 
search engines are useful for hunting up the existence of an object or service 
whose legitimacy is questionable (“So you want a million-candlepower 
hand-held spotlight? If you can find it, I’ll consider it.”). It can also put you 
in touch with other games that might be interested in linking plots or 
allowing players to travel. 
T H E W E B A S Y O U R E O E  
Many times, players get into blue-booking online, whether by chat or 
e-mail, working out scenes and coming into play with all manner of new 
connections, Status and whatever, that you’ve never seen before. While 
there’s nothing wrong with this - 
most often it’s simple conversation or 
exchanges that don’t need a Storyteller’s eye - 
it can be baffling or even 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


damaging to a plot to suddenly find out that the prince decided to Summon 
his favorite anarch scapegoat to his office for the purposes of killing him 
without so much as a by-your-leave from you. Suggest that those who want 
to do more than talk take up the situation with a Narrator. If challenges start 
flying or things get complicated, that should automatically put it in the 
province of Storyteller staff. Even the most trustworthy players can get 
bogged down in who said what away from the eyes of authority. 
For good or ill, just about anything can be found on the Web now, from 
the latest headlines to catalogue shopping to hate speech or worse. A simple 
search on bomb-making can snag an enterprising soul dozens of links. You’re 
going to have to consider how to answer the player who claims that his anarch 
character has been downloading information on making pipe-bombs and now 
wants to use that information for fun and profit. Just because someone can dig 
it up does not mean you have to let him have it, and there are several ways you 
can deal with the issue. Perhaps the anarch has been unwittingly chatting 
with an undercover federal agent (which will bring a whole new set of 
problems - 
Masquerade breach, perhaps?) or forgot to turn off the cookies 
during his last excursion. An e-mail program like Carnivore - 
which was 
designed to find and read the e-mails of terrorists or other users who’ve been 
flagged for various reasons -could 
take untoward interest in said anarch (or 
any other Kindred’s mail for that matter). The “disruption of service” 
hackings of Yahoo!, Amazon.com and other Web giants may make some Net- 
savvy Kindred tremble - 
if a couple of kids with too much time and RAM 
could bring these sites to their knees, what happens if they turn their attention 
on a Kindred site, or if they get Embraced by the enemy? And even if you don’t 
make use of those stumbling blocks, who’s to say that the information your 
anarch got was correct? (“Was that 50 blasting caps or 500?”) 
On a more serious note, in this age of school shootings and domestic 
terrorism, there are real-life people and groups who take an interest in those 
who do nightly searches in hate-speech sites or other dangerous places, or who 
post to these sites. Watch your step and be very careful who you start chatting 
with. An over-enthusiastic agent might be hard-pressed to figure out what’s 
the more interesting threat - 
someone researching bomb-making, or some- 
one who pretends to be a vampire that’s researching bomb-making. 
T H E  
WIRED 
A N D T H E  UNHOOKED 
Strange as some people might think it, not everyone is wired for the Web, 
or has only sporadic access at best. It could be the computer is in the dumps, 
they can’t afford computer access, or they must rely on someone else’s charity. 
In which case, if your group has become very Web-dependent, you may have 
a minority group that is constantly in the dark about last-minute changes or 
other important matters. It only takes one sudden change of location to piss 
off a lot of uninformed people. There are few clearer illustrations of haves 
versus have-nots than the matter of Internet access. 
If your group is in the habit of meeting between games, use that time to 
catch up non-Webby folks on anything important that went out over the wire 
or list. While many character announcements have a way of filtering back to 
the necessary folks, game announcements have a similar way of getting lost. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


A “newspaper” with the week’s news articles and Storyteller news can be an 
excellent way of keeping the non-wired folks in touch. It doesn’t have to look 
fancy, so long as it’s functional. 
Folks who like to stay in touch via cell phones and pagers (but don’t have 
computers) may also bring back that relic of elementary school and scout 
troop - 
the phone tree. The gist of it (for those who don’t recall) is that one 
person is responsible for calling two other people, and those two people each 
call two people and soon. While some might mumble about it being primitive, 
it may be helpful to the Storyteller and allows folks to stay in touch. Besides, 
if there’s a server or router problem, what happens then? 
SCENE DESCRIPTION 
- 
MORE B A N ~ ~ O R T H E  
BUCK 
You’ve got your three players arrayed before you. They’re getting 
ready for you to narrate a scene where the three of them will work on 
patching up a Masquerade breach at a night club. You say, “You come in 
and see the following: a bar to the left, an open DJ booth to the right, about 
50 people on the dance floor and two dozen more around the three pool 
tables in the back. What do you do?” You can’t understand why they’re 
looking at you a little vacantly. 
A description like that is right up there with the infamous, “You enter a 
10 by 10 room with four orcs and a box of unidentified treasure.” Players will 
find it hard to get excited (much less interested) about the scene if they don’t 
know what’s going on. They rely on you to set the stage that their characters 
will strut and fret upon. You know what the place looks like in your head 
(don’t you?), but the players can’t see through your skull into that place you’re 
thinking of. So how do you go about getting a little more bang for the buck? 
When setting a stage, remember that we don’t merely look at what’s 
happening before us and call it a scene. Humans (and Kindred) rely on their 
entire range of sensory input to give them information about what’s 
happening around them, what might have happened in the past and what 
might happen in the future. A complete scene involves all five senses. So 
when describing a location for your players, give thought not only to what 
the place looks like visually, but what it sounds like, smells like, tastes like 
and feels like. To return to our earlier attempt at the night club: “The 
nightclub is a little hole-in-the-wall dive that probably only operates a few 
times a week in what used to be a dry cleaning shop. Several people in the 
latest bondage and Goth gear stand outside smoking - 
the smoke rising 
from one young man smells strangely sweet, almost like cherries. Inside, the 
thunderous industrial music is rattling anything not nailed down, including 
the bottles behind the bar. The DJ booth perches over the crowd against one 
wall. The walls are cinderblock, painted black, and the black-and-white 
linoleum dance floor is surrounded by enormous woofers and tweeters. 
About 50 young people are out on the floor, thrashing and swaying with the 
music. You inhale, and the combined smells of cigarettes, sweat, cheap 
fragrances and leather all rush down your nostrils and over your palate. The 
place is crowded, and a rail-thin girl with white-blonde hair wearing scarlet 
velvet brushes past you, glancing back for half a second to apologize. As you 
turn to speak, you catch a whiff of vitae on the passing girl.” 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sensory input is even more important to those using Auspex, who are 
roleplaying a physically impaired sense or who have derangements related 
to the senses. The absence, impairment or overstimulation of any particular 
sense can provoke amazing reactions; torturers the world over understand 
this very well. In the case of someone playing a character who is deaf, blind 
or missing another sense like smell or taste, she’ll look to you for vivid 
descriptions that her other senses will use to fill in the gap in her under- 
standing. Someone who can hear but has a derangement that makes him 
nervous of certain sounds will want to know if his particular madness is 
throbbing in response to stimuli. The Heightened Senses of Auspex in 
particular need a great deal of detail - 
reading a letter by touch, smelling 
a perfume to pull apart its components or focusing the sight to study the very 
brushstrokes made by Rembrandt when he painted “The Night Watch” will 
all require you to delve a little deeper into the logistics of sensory percep- 
tion. That said, imagine what happens when that sense is overloaded - 
the 
sensitized fingers get slammed with a hammer or the sharply focused eyes get 
struck with a camera flash. No wonder vampires with overloaded Heightened 
Senses spend time stunned and dazed! 
Action is what makes things happen - 
seriously! When you’re describing 
a scene, evocative words can go a long way to really nailing down how 
something looks to you and your players. Consider the following example: “As 
you pass the alley, a miasma of piss, sweat and vitae wafts over you” versus “You 
smell urine, sweat and Kindred blood when you walk by the alley.” Which one 
paints the more detailed picture? Boning up on your vocabulary will do 
wonders for scene description, as you pull out such lovely mouthfuls as 
“baroque,” “pandemic,” “untoward.” 
All of us have “that song,” the one that we first kissed to, that we broke 
up to or that we’ve designated as our personal theme song. Movie music does 
this in particular, leading viewers to understand subtext or emotional themes 
in a scene without necessarily stating them outright. The occasional piece of 
music can be crucial in helping your players think about the scene their 
characters are going through. A complex harpsichord piece can be indicative 
of an elder’s equally complex plots and older manners, while the quiet sound 
of a single koto invokes the tranquility of a formal Japanese garden. Music can 
help define the space that you’re setting aside for your players to create this 
scene; this isn’t the corner of the recreation basement or even the second 
room of the Elysium. While the music plays, you’re in a Zen garden, an elder’s 
parlor or with a lovestruck ghoul. 
Not every Storyteller character must hinge on the plot, appear 
there solely to deliver a line like the cauldron ghosts of Macbeth and 
then depart. Sometimes, the best roleplaying can come from a chance 
encounter, something unexpected (just like real life) that must be 
dealt with and might even be a foreshadowing of things to come (the 
first encounter with an Ally). If you’re short on time or have a 
particularly garrulous player, obviously you can adjust this. Still, 
chance encounters can make a scene sparkle - 
the Indian man behind 
the gas station counter who’s nervous of certain people, the child who 
sees through the Nosferatu’s Mask while he’s hunting, the elderly 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


woman who asks for help carrying a bag of groceries. From small things 
do bigger things grow.. . . 
ASSISTANT 
STORYTELLERS 
AND NARRATORS 
Ever have a night where you wished you could clone yourself? Ever see the 
warning, “If you’re struggling, go find some help”? Well, the cavalry is here! 
Here’s the different types and what you can do with them. 
Narrators are those folks who are in amongst the players, usually with 
their own characters, but who are available as necessary for challenges (such 
as Simple Tests, Virtue Challenges) or as an extra set of eyes when combat 
hits. Typically, Narrators are more rules-oriented, and the best seem to have 
encyclopedic memories regarding where every rule can be found and where 
are the three instances that contradict said rule. Still, they know when a 
challenge needs to be seen by a Storyteller and when to let the Storyteller 
do the talking. 
Assistant Storytellers do just that, assist the Storyteller with keeping 
the chronicle on track. Often, an assistant is in charge of a particular 
aspect of the game that needs watching, but the Storyteller is about to 
drown in watching everything else - this could be Influences and 
Backgrounds, or maybe keeping a weather eye out for in-game Masquerade 
breaches. Assistant Storytellers may or may not maintain their own 
characters, according to Storyteller needs for the game. They may play for 
stints, then take a shift at the Storyteller desk for those little emergencies 
like watching a ritual be performed or running a minor scene while the 
Storyteller deals with something bigger. Some assistants even run their 
own subplots after getting permission from the Storyteller. It’s often from 
among these folks that the chronicle’s next Storyteller can be found. 
You yourself know best how much help you need (and you’re never 
beyond help) and where it should go. If your game is small, you may need 
only one or two Narrators and a single Assistant Storyteller to run some 
subplots for players to chew on each session. O n  the other hand, if you have 
a large chronicle or some details that necessitate more attention (a number 
of inexperienced players, heavy use of Influences, a location that seems to 
generate a lot of character interest), then you’ll probably want more 
Narrators and at least two assistants to oversee the details that you’ve 
forgotten because you’re writing plot. Again, you know what will make your 
game run better. 
It’s a given that people will always find something to disagree about - 
it’s life. When you disagree with your Narrator or an Assistant Storyteller, it’s 
still life, but you don’t want to have it out right there. Take it elsewhere. 
Unless the matter is so heinous that you can’t possibly let it go, take it 
elsewhere. Don’t scream at each other in public - 
it’s not nice to each other 
or to the players. If you disagree on a ruling, unless it’s so gross that you can’t 
let it slide (or it means a character could live or die), let it roll for now. By 
constantly overseeing and correcting their work, you indicate to your assis- 
tants that you don’t trust them fully, and if you show the players you don’t trust 
your assistant’s rulings, they won’t trust them either. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THOSE 
WHO HUNTTHE 
NIGHT 
Take a moment and think about the phrase “World of Darkness.” The 
first word says it all: It is a big world, and Kindred share its eternal night with 
many other creatures. Some of the other denizens of the Gothic-Punk world 
are as indifferent to Kindred as the ghost of a long-dead centurion, while some 
are as hostile as a Lupine with a hangnail and a religious conviction that she 
should slay all Kindred and let Gaia sort them out. You, as the Storyteller, help 
paint the backdrop that is this world. 
A crossover is a story or scene where one supernatural creature 
encounters another supernatural creature. Why allow crossovers? This 
is one of the first things that you must ask yourself as a Storyteller. After 
all, crossovers have a potential for disaster. Imagine a mixed Masquer- 
ade and Apocalypse live-action game where the werewolf players are 
convinced that they should know where all the Kindred Elysia are, but 
that the Kindred should have no idea where the Garou caerns are. Here’s 
a crossover that could have led to dead characters and unhappy players 
when the Kindred decide to enforce the sacredness of their own Elysium 
against the Lupine visitors; few things disrupt a quiet art gallery gather- 
ing more than an attack by a pack of nine-foot tall, hairy, unwashed 
killing-machines-for-Gaia. 
And yet crossover scenes can be very important in maintaining the feel 
of the World of Darkness. Where would the Giovanni be without their allies 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


(or foes) among the Restless Dead? What wielder of Spirit Thaumaturgy is 
not afraid of hostile spirits and Lupines? Caine didn’t issue the warnings 
against the Wild Ones and moonbeasts just to take up space in the Book of 
Nod. The important thing is to keep your crossover experience from 
degenerating into an everyday experience, where the most exotic creatures 
are met with yawns and boredom. 
W H Y  CROSSOVERS 
HAPPEN 
Crossovers can happen for many reasons, but common themes include 
vying for resources or dominance, and the search for forgotten lore or 
legends. Supernatural creatures that are hostile to each other sometimes 
have common enemies - 
after all: “The enemy of my enemy is my ally.” 
And there’s nothing like the confusion that reigns when one group discov- 
ers its favorite hang-out has been staked as sacred by some band of 
ill-tempered (and powerful) thugs. 
Crossovers can easily happen when a Cainite with a high Humanity 
score tries to clean up the city and starts encountering Wyrm-tainted 
fomori or other fell creatures who normally battle Lupines. Will the 
Lupines start wondering who’s doing their work, and how will they 
reward their “helper” when they do learn? What of a Giovanni who 
temporarily devotes her efforts to fighting a particularly nasty Spectre 
who also preys on a local Circle of Renegade wraiths? Will the Circle 
continue to ally with her, or is she merely taking care of the Spectre 
because he’s muscling in on her turf? While the status quo antagonism 
will return when the threat is gone, these crossovers can lead to mutual 
respect and common ground. 
Crossovers can also happen when one type of supernatural denizen 
attempts to play King of the Hill. Consider the frustration of the Nosferatu 
who tries to boot a sluagh from “his” sewers and later discovers that someone 
is mysteriously and repeatedly draining his spawning pool, yet does not show 
up on cameras in and out of the area (nasty little chimera!). What of the 
Tremere regent who finds herself racing with a local Uktena Theurge and 
mortal Ancient Order of the Aeon Rites coven to recover a lost talisman of 
sorcerous power? These crossovers can lead to double-crosses and outright 
hostility, so manage them carefully. 
Finally, sometimes a Cainite’s search for hidden and forgotten lore can 
lead him to consult with strange creatures; a Kiasyd might contact the local 
Kithain (who have heard of such creatures in the vaguest of legends, if at all), 
or a Gangrel unraveling a mystery might be directed to a local Bone Gnawer 
by Kinfolk. All of these crossovers can be rewarding or disastrous depending 
upon how you the Storyteller manage them. 
WORLD 
o E DARKNESS 
How much information can Kindred gain from crossovers? That 
depends. The Gothic-Punk world is a dark and mysterious place. Its 
inhabitants do not have books like the Laws of the Night or The 
Camarilla Guide at their elbows to flip through when they first meet an 
eight-foot-tall blue-skinned Viking. Most werewolves have never met a 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


vampire, and a Cainite’s first encounter with the Lupine threat is likely to 
end in Final Death. 
Remember to use Abilities and Lores to help keep the night myste- 
rious, and remember that different Lore Abilities may be more or less 
accurate. For example, a Cainite with four levels in Occult might suspect 
that lycanthropes are real and that garlic and silver affect them. One 
with three levels in Lupine Lore might know what Kindred have learned 
over the last three millennia - 
and about half of it may be more or less 
false. Finally, a Cainite with Garou Lore has an inkling of the “right 
stuff,” knows the name of a tribe or two, the real story behind silver and 
perhaps even a little about the Triat (“What’s a Wyrm?”) and spirits. 
Lore shouldn’t be free, though: A Kindred with Garou Lore probably has 
the scars to prove it, is not spreading around how she acquired it, and is 
likely to have an Ahroun hunting her or a Glass Walker Ragabash 
preparing to blackmail her three ways from Sunday unless she helps him 
steal the Influences he wants. 
The different denizens of the World of Darkness have different agendas 
and different cultures; it’s not out of line to compare the biases between 
groups to the sort of inculcated prejudice found in South Africa’s apartheid 
days. After all, it may serve Kindred elders to claim that the Wild Ones are 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


frightening - 
adding a few gory tales that happened to the childe of his 
sire’s uncle may keep the childer sufficiently frightened and thus unmoti- 
vated to go hunting the truth. The reverse holds true - 
a Lupine who has 
been told a thousand thousand times (each time more unpleasant than the 
last) how untrustworthy and horrific Leeches are, then actually meets one 
in an alley, is going to remember those stories first, not whatever the Leech 
is babbling as she tries to get away. 
Lovers and spouses do not always reveal their deepest secrets to each 
other, which forms the premise of many a modern thriller. The same is true 
of companions and even the blood-bound in the Gothic Punk world, 
especially if the friend or thrall fears that the information might make her 
Kindred domitor unhappy. So the ghoul or thrall sneaks out to find her 
changeling sibling, and her domitor starts wondering where she’s going. Does 
he follow her? Does he question her? Or does he let it slide under the weight 
of other worries? Kindred may interact with other creatures, but the informa- 
tion rarely comes with full disclosure or classroom credit. 
The truly mighty powers of the World of Darkness, ranging from Garou 
Incarna spirits and sleeping Methuselahs to the Technocracy, labor to keep 
their secrets hidden from the prying eyes of mortal society. Consider the 
modern marvel of the Internet: While some supernatural creatures use 
computer networks, ranging from the Nosferatu SchreckNet or the Digital 
Web to Pentex’s strange computer-spirit hybrid network, very few have 
succeeded in making the Web truly work for them. A young Lick’s attempt 
to openly use the Internet to trade away secrets of Kindredsociety to other 
supernaturals might result in missing e-mail, strange server and router 
crashes and an ominous knock on the door in the middle of daysleep. Think 
of this balance of misinformation as being adelicate stasis, like that between 
several hostile nations, each “hidden master” wanting to be the one to pull 
the trigger at the time that best meets its own agenda, but before the other 
nations get the first shot. 
p R O B  LE M s A N  D PRI 
N CI p LE s 
When managing crossovers, Storytellers need to be aware of potential 
problem areas, including how much information is traded, relative power 
levels and intentional player-generated catastrophes. Each by itself can bring 
an evening’s game to its knees. 
Players should not readily trade away secrets of their clans to other 
supernatural allies unless they have very good reasons for doing so. As a 
Storyteller, encourage your players to be reasonable. If they are not, point 
out that their “students” may not understand everything because they do 
not have the background and context to do so. You may also require those 
learning about vampires to purchase Kindred Lore or Vampire Lore, or 
require that they also learn one or more “incorrect” facts for each 
“tutoring session.” (“What do you mean, vampires can endure moonlight? 
My friend told me that they couldn’t!”) 
Remember to be consistent when choosing to use the newer health 
levels. All characters should get access to the expanded health levels 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


presented in Laws of the Night unless you choose to use the compressed 
health levels from earlier Mind’s Eye Theatre games. You must also 
moderate power levels: Few solitary Kindred can stand up to a raging 
Garou war-pack or a Renegade wraith with Stonehand Punch, while 
solitary Garou or Wraith players should feel understandably nervous 
about entering a Kindred Elysium. Work with your players in establishing 
guidelines for power levels as discussed below. 
Finally, Storytellers must moderate the actions of “Apocalypse Now!” 
players, such as the disgruntled Caitiff who published maps of the next 
Elysium and mailed them to every Lupine in a four-state area. Beyond 
dealing with the carnage wrought by this wild-eyed fruitcake, you need a 
way to keep the story rolling without pulling out an unrealistic deux ex 
machinae. Perhaps locations change at the last minute, strategic car 
trouble strands the war party on the highway, or someone at Elysium gets 
a tip-off (perhaps one of those strange flashes that occur with Auspex or 
Dementution) that something is approaching. As a Storyteller, you have a 
responsibility to create a sense of verisimilitude, of authenticity. Allowing 
a single player to blow up the city (and the game) singlehandedly does not 
help in creating this atmosphere. 
s T 0 RYT E L L E R CH A R A CT E R CR 0 S S 0 VE R S 
You have the most control over crossover Storyteller characters, 
including their statistics, personalities, roles and what they actually do for 
the players in your game. They should be doing more than simply handing 
out plot - 
consider that these are more of the World of Darkness (remem- 
ber that first word), and people aren’t there solely to dish out tasty clues and 
gracefully exit stage left. 
When creating Storyteller characters, avoid the temptation to create 
“uber-NPCs,” the mighty monsters that can squish any annoying player 
character like a grape. Many times you won’t need them, especially not for 
simple interaction. One rule of thumb is to ensure that these characters 
don’t have too many more Traits than the most powerful player character 
that they may oppose. You may even want weaker, more numerous 
opponents: Even a powerful elder with Fleetness and Puissance may run out 
of Traits when faced with a mob of angry vampire-hunters with just a 
smattering of True Faith. 
Balance what the Storyteller characters can do against what the players 
can do. If Lupine Storyteller characters can find the characters’ Elysium 
easily, consider letting the characters occasionally disturb a late-night moot 
at a smaller caern. Do not let your players cultivate the belief that your 
crossover Storyteller characters are more important than the player charac- 
ters themselves; that leads to players feeling powerless. On that same note, 
letting the characters run roughshod without too much interference will 
make them cocksure that they can take down anything. Sure, that Kinfolk 
girl who wouldn’t answer the coterie’s questions went down pretty easily, 
but it’s a certain bet that her angry Garou mate and his pack aren’t going be 
quite such a pushover. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Statistics do not make up a Storyteller character’s personality, espe- 
cially for crossover characters. For many Storyteller characters you may 
not even have well-developed sheets, but may instead rely upon a line or 
two jotted down in a notebook or on index cards: “The Quick Corner clerk 
is a punkish, tattooed older teen with a shock of red hair. She seems 
confident and self-assured, with a steely gleam in her jaded but young eyes. 
She is actually a changeling, an Unseelie redcap wilder, with Basic-level 
Arts.” You can often make simple characters seem more real when you 
focus on mannerisms, styles of dress and speech habits. Maybe our above 
example redcap clerk has a habit leaving her hightops untied, or drops an 
automatic (not necessarily sincere) apology when she curses. If the 
character is interesting to interact with, no one’s going to much care how 
butch her sheet is. 
When you do decide to give statistics to your crossover Storyteller 
characters, go sparingly on Lores and special Abilities. Most Garou do not 
realize that the Kindred’s fabled weakness to wooden stakes is real, and 
noble sidhe changelings who knew the Prodigal races of the Dark Ages 
will be at a loss to understand the Giovanni or modern anarchs. To avoid 
spoiling the mood of mystery and danger, you should generally try to avoid 
mixed-genre “killer combinations,” such as the angry Black Fury war- 
machine who has both the Luna’s Armor Gift and the changeling 
Oakenshield and Quicksilver cantrips cast on her, or the Risen who has 
more sorcerous enchantments and wards than a bad Aleister Crowley 
imitation. These latter start looking like the Uber-NPCs we warned you 
about earlier. 
It’s easy to focus on the full-blooded supernaturals as being a worthy 
challenge, but the mortal relatives of these creatures can prove even more 
interesting for crossover use. Werewolf Kinfolk and changeling kinain are 
often more common than their full-powered relatives, and Consorts of 
wraiths are certainly more accessible than their ghostly associates. Often 
these people make useful ‘[nice old man down the street” crossovers, which 
are more roleplaying-oriented than the usual clash-of-titans encounters, 
because they have limited but useful knowledge and because player 
characters are more likely to see them as a resource or ally instead of as 
competition. Should the players mistreat these “weak” ones, though, the 
supernatural kin of the oppressed are certain to come looking for the 
player characters. 
You may also want to use Storyteller characters drawn from the psychics, 
sorcerers, shamans and priests described in Laws of the Hunt and Laws of the 
Hunt Players’ Guide. Want to up the ante for your Tremere who have been 
less than helpful regarding mortal activities? Let them uncover a coven of 
mortal sorcerers who are now using Kindred as sacrifices to summon infernal 
help with the Daimonis Praxis. Want your Gangrel to find an unusual 
uoudoun-like rural cult as the start of a larger plot? Use a shamanistic Uzoma 
babalawo or sorcerous Uzoma bokor. Want to create a rival for a particularly 
seductive Toreador? Consider a Fenian sorceress with the Fascination Praxis. 
These sorts of characters have an edge that will be unexpected, particularly 
if your targets have usually looked down on mortals before. 
+- 
I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Kindred will occasionally have allies and retainers who are supernatu- 
ral creatures themselves. Ghouls are described in Liber des Goules. You 
may use Oblivion for wraiths for the Spirit Mentor Merit or as servitors of 
Giovanni or Harbingers of Skulls. Be careful to limit chronicle-bending 
Arcanoi like Obliviate or Cupitatis, and remember that a Cainite can force 
a wraith to become Incorporeal and unable to affect the real world by 
simply waving her arms and running through the wraith. If you have a 
Kiasyd in your Sabbat chronicle, it makes sense that Unseelie changelings 
(maybe even the Shadow Court) make an appearance at some point. 
Remember, though, that Kindred have a high Banality and any change- 
ling who drinks Cainite vitae gains Banality and is well on the way to 
becoming a Typhoid Dauntain. While even Gangrel are unlikely to have 
Garou allies or retainers, they might occasionally have Kinfolk in those 
roles, which puts the Kinfolk in an uneasy balancing act between the 
Leech who’s her brother and the Garou who demand her loyalties. Mortal 
psychic and sorcerers will also occasionally serve Kindred, though the 
Tremere chantry that attempts to totally control a dozen mortal sorcerers 
in an Ancient Order of the Aeon Rite coven is asking for repeat of the 
drama whereby Tremere himself became a vampire, with the Tremere as 
the main course. 
When creating a retainer or ally, use the description under the Allies 
Background: The ally or retainer has as many Abilities as the player 
character has Traits in the Allies Background. For other Storyteller 
characters, you might be a little more generous, depending on how mature 
your chronicle has grown. For a competent Storyteller character foe or 
independent plot character, start by assigning three to six Attribute Traits 
to the two Attributes that are not primary (e.g., Physical traits for a 
Tremere or a mortal psychic), one to four levels for appropriate Abilities 
and about the same level of special powers like Gifts, Arts, Arcanoi or 
Numina; base special abilities on the player characters’ average, compar- 
ing spent experience. If the Storyteller character is very competent, 
consider adding a few more Attribute Traits to her primary Attribute. For 
maximum traits for mortals, you can use either 10 Traits (The Camarilla 
Guide) or eight Traits (Laws of the Hunt, Laws of the Hunt Players’ 
Guide), based on what sort of competency you want the players to 
encounter. For other supernatural creatures, adjust accordingly, based on 
how much experience the player characters have: Unless it’s going to 
serve the needs of the story, a character that is too weak may not last long. 
If time is short, you can always simply modify an existing template, such 
as those in the Portrait Gallery from The Camarilla Guide or the Rogues’ 
Gallery in The Sabbat Guide. 
PLAYER 
CHARACTER 
CROSSOVERS 
When you allow players to mix Kindred and other types of creatures in 
a game, you will find that you have a whole new set of concerns to address, 
including balancing power levels, maintaining novelty and creating new 
external threats. For example, allowing combat-oriented Garou Ahrouns 
into a salon-style game set in an Elysium may quickly reduce both your in- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


game Kindred population and your out-of-game number of players. On the 
other hand, bringing in three weak Rank One Garou into an elder game may 
prove futile for your werewolf players. Search to find both a balance point 
and a reason why the two disparate cultures are working together, and work 
to keep your game from becoming a hunting expedition for other player 
characters. You will also find that you need to work harder to keep a sense 
of mystery; Kindred shouldn’t be able to name every changeling kith, Garou 
tribe or network of psychics and sorcerers on a whim. Enlist the aid of your 
more experienced players in this; they may help you in spreading strategic 
disinformation (“Of course Bone Gnawers and Glass Walkers are the same 
tribe; so are the Silver Fangs and Shadow Lords”). 
Finally, do not forget to include the genre-specific threats that each 
crossover character may face. If your Garou characters start talking about 
how to wipe out the Camarilla court without breaking a sweat, consider 
throwing a major Pentex plot at them so that the Garou need Cainite 
help. If your changelings plan to re-write everyone’s perceptions in a 
Sabbat game, you might introduce a Black Magician Dauntain who is 
ghouled to the Tzimisce ductus who leads a rival pack. If your wraiths are 
so proud that no one in the local Camarilla court can touch them while 
they use Stonehand Punch across the Shroud, a cabal of mortal necroman- 
cers or a few Giovanni should knock them off their high horse. 
TH e MANY WORLDS 
There are many layers to the spirit worlds, as described in Laws of 
the Wild, Laws of the Hunt andLaws of the Hunt Players’ Guide. One 
rough way of classifying these worlds is to call the lands of the dead the 
“Low Umbra,” the realms of elementals and nature spirits the “Middle 
Umbra” and rarefied heights of abstract concepts the “High Umbra,” as 
described in The Book of Worlds. The closest parts of each of these 
Umbrae are called the “Periphery.” Wraiths normally interact with the 
living world from the Shadowlands, which are the Periphery of the Low 
Umbra. Lupines, nature spirits and elementals often use the Penumbra, 
which is the periphery of the Middle Umbra. Kindred, mortal sorcerers 
and mages occasionally use the periphery of the High Umbra, which 
Kindred and sorcerers often call the astral plane and Awakened 
willworkers call the Vulgate. 
A vampire using Psychic Projection normally enters the astral plane or 
Vulgate. If he wanders too far or his silver cord is broken, however, he may 
become lost and find himself in the Penumbra or Shadowlands. Conflict in 
either can be disastrous, as a Cainite uses Mental Traits in lieu of Physical 
Traits, but wraiths and Garou use Physical Traits for “physical” combat. A 
strong Lupine or Spectre may rend the Cainite’s psyche into small pieces, 
trapping the Cainite in torpor indefinitely. 
WOLVESATTHE 
DOOR 
Ancient and embittered enemies, vampires and werewolves have long 
fought for control of their respective territories. Werewolves, known as Garou 
to themselves and Lupines to Kindred, believe that Kindredare the embodi- 
t 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ment of a destructive and malignant evil known as the Wyrm. Despite this 
animosity, Kindred and Garou occasionally work together in secret for 
common goals or against common enemies. 
Because of their knowledge of the wild and animal ways, Gangrel are 
the most likely Kindred to interact with the Garou and their Kinfolk 
without conflict, though Nosferatu occasionally encounter Bone Gnaw- 
ers and their Kinfolk without (much) bloodshed. In the city, a Cainite 
is most likely to encounter the urban poor of the Bone Gnawer tribe and 
its Kinfolk or the techno-savvy Glass Walker tribe. If a Cainite is lucky, 
he might interact without excessive hostility with a peace-loving Child 
of Gaia, a contemplative Stargazer or a Native American-influenced 
Uktena who is more interested in magical knowledge than in slaying the 
hated ancestral foe personified by the Cainite. All bets are off with the 
other tribes. And Gaia help the Gangrel who crashes the sacred Garou 
gathering known as a moot - 
Earth Meld only helps a little when being 
chased by 20 nine-foot-tall killing-machines who want your blasphe- 
mous undead hide! 
Part of this ancient animosity is the taint of death and destruction laid on 
every Cainite’s soul by the Beast. Kindred and ghouls with three or fewer 
Humanity Traits smell of the Wyrm to Garou attempting to sense Wyrm- 
taint. Vampires on Paths ofEnlightenment automatically stinkofwyrm-taint, 
regardless of the rating. The exception to this is Path ofthe Feral Heart, which 
is treated like Humanity for purposes of Wyrm detection. 
Vampires who drink Lupine vitae are in for an unpleasant surprise. 
Each Blood Trait counts as two, but the Cainite suffers from the Negative 
Mental Trait Impatient until the blood is used (and should roleplay the 
restless, verge-of-frenzy tension that’s rolling through him in the mean- 
while) and gets one Trait added to the difficulty of any tests for frenzy. 
Blood cycles through, so the last blood in (the most recently drunk) 
becomes the last blood out. A number of vampires even hunt Lupines for 
their blood as some have claimed that Lupine blood grants speed and 
strength no different than that granted by Celerity or Potence. In truth - 
and no Kindred should know this - 
the effect is based on the werewolf s 
Pure Breed Background. On the turn after the Kindred spends the Lupine 
blood that came from a werewolf with Pure Breed, she gains extra actions 
and Strength-related Traits, as below: 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


These effects will add to existing Celerity and Potence, but aren’t cumu- 
lative: If a Kindred spends a Blood Trait from a werewolfwith Pure Breed 1 and 
another from one with Pure Breed 3 in the same turn, the only first blood to 
be spent adds effects. Any effects from Garou blood last only for the first turn 
following the expenditure. 
Garou who imbibe Cainite blood aren’t in much better shape. A Lupine 
can be ghouled (and gains one level of Potence like any other ghoul). He 
can also be blood bound, although getting a Garou to sit still long enough 
to drink vampire blood and keep it in his system is a feat indeed. Most Garou 
would rather force themselves to vomit the noxious fluid up than swallow 
it: The blood of the undead is a mockery of all things natural. A Garou who 
drinks Cainite vitae or has it forced into her body becomes Wyrm-tainted. 
Fortunately, a Rite of Cleansing is usually sufficient to remove the blood and 
the Wyrm-taint. 
In the spirit world known as the Umbra or Middle Umbra, the Garou 
classify spirits who are influenced by the Wyrm as “Banes.” When Kindred 
indulge in the Beast through violence, bloodshed or corruption, their 
activities often attract Banes. Banes normally do not affect Kindred - 
attempts by Banes to possess Kindred usually result in trapped Banes - 
but will instead hang out to wait for the spiritual fallout of Kindred lusts 
and desires. 
Because of their supernatural heritage, Kindred may find that their 
Disciplines interact differently with Lupines and other shapechangers than 
with mortals or other Kindred. 
Disciplines from Laws of the Night: 
Animalism: Kindred with Feral Whispers will not understand the Garou 
tongue, although they can communicate as wolves. No power that specifically 
affects animals will affect a Garou or other Changing Breed, not even Lupus 
or animal breed forms. Garou have Beasts (expressed in their Rage Traits) and 
may be affected by powers that draw on the Beast. 
Celerity: Lupines can use Rage to match the extra actions that a Cainite 
can gain from Celerity. 
Dementation: Voice of Mudness: A Cainite using Voice of Madness can force 
a Lupine to test for fox frenzy; the Lupine tests its Willpower against its Rage. 
Obfuscate: Obfuscate works like it does against other creatures. En- 
hanced- senses Gifts can attempt to pierce it in the same manner that Auspex 
does (use the Garou’s rank in place of the Auspex rating, but the challenge 
remains the same). 
Protean: Kindred in wolf form via Shape of the Beast cannot understand 
the Garou tongue and will not smell quite right to a Garou’s senses. 
Garou Gifts 
Healing: Garou healing Gifts like Mother’s Touch are meant to work on 
living creatures, which a Kindred assuredly is not. Gifts that mend inanimate 
things also cannot heal a vampire. 
Heightened Senses: Garou may use the Heightened Senses Gift to 
pierce Kindred powers of Chimerstry or Obfuscate; treat these instances 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


according to the “Case Law” or “Relative Power Level” crossover rules 
in Laws of the Night. 
Resist Toxin: While it won’t keep a Garou from being ghouled or blood 
bound, it does give the werewolf the opportunity to make a soak attempt 
against Quietus, Thanatosis and other Disciplines that work through blood 
contact, disease or decay. 
Scent of Running Water: This Gift can be broken with Auspex if the 
vampire attempts to track the Garou by scent (use the Auxpex versus Obfuscate 
challenge mechanic - 
the Garou’s Rank replaces the Discipline rating). 
Scent of the True Form: On a win (but not a tie), a Garou can sense a 
Kindred who has used Possession or Subsume the Spirit to possess a mortal or 
animal vessel. 
Sense Magic: Sense Magic will detect the presence of blood magics 
like Thaumaturgy and Dark Thuumuturgy, but not the use of other 
Cainite Disciplines. 
ABOMINATIONS 
- 
THE B L I ~ H T E D  
ONES 
Most attempts to Embrace werewolves end in failure - 
the werewolf 
usually dies, grateful that her mother-goddess preserved her from a fate truly 
worse than death. Unfortunately, sometimes the Embrace takes hold in a 
Lupine. The result is rightly referred to as an Abomination. 
Vampire werewolves are truly things that should not be. The Embrace 
cuts a werewolfs spirit away from the world’s soul, literally ripping her out of 
the great cycle of life and denying her the very reason for which she lives. 
Despair usually sets in at some point, and suicide carries off more of these 
creatures than anything. 
Abominations are created no differently than other Kindred, but the 
victim can make a last Gnosis Challenge in an attempt to avoid her fate. On 
a win, the victim dies quietly in the attempt and her spirit travels on. Should 
she tie, the Garou’s spirit will still pass on, but it will be bloody and agonizing. 
On a loss, the Garou becomes an Abomination. No power short of divine 
intervention can affect this challenge. 
Like any other vampire, an Abomination learns three levels of Disci- 
plines and has the weakness of whatever clan Embraced her (or she could be 
Caitiff). Like any other vampire, she can heal herself or boost her Attributes 
with blood. That’s where the benefits end. 
An Abomination’s spirit connections begin to wither almost immedi- 
ately upon the Embrace. She cannot increase her Gnosis, nor can she heal 
herself like a werewolf - 
she must spend blood to do so. While she may 
remember the rites and Gifts she used before her change, she won’t get the 
same results if she attempts to use them now. Her Gifts now only attract the 
attention of Wyrm-spirits due to her own state as an unclean thing. If she 
attempts to learn more Gifts or rites, she must learn them from Wyrm-spirits 
or Banes, and these are foul spirits who have no interest in dealing truthfully 
with an Abomination. Even the mightiest, most honored Garou elder 
becomes a pariah when she’s Embraced and may well have some wrathful 
Garou after her to return her to the cycle. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Abominations may not spend blood in the same turn that they spend 
Gnosis or Rage or make Rage or Gnosis Challenges. The mystical qualities of 
the three pools interfere with each other drastically. An Abomination has a 
blood pool commensurate with her generation. 
Abominations have been rightly called the most miserable of creatures 
- 
they live with a permanent, debilitating depression that cannot be lifted 
by Willpower or other means. They may never expend Willpower for retests. 
Their Humanity Traits often plummet fairly quickly, consigining them to 
death or the Beast. They may never buy further Humanity, Willpower or 
Virtue Traits with experience - 
their psyches are considered to be constantly 
eroding, and maintaining status quo is about all they can manage. Where an 
Abomination goes after death, no one is certain. Does Gaia accept them back 
after their time in Hell, or are they cut out of the great cycle forever? The 
answer may be forever a mystery. 
These monsters are considered vicious, powerful and, above all, rare foes. 
The appearance of one should send shockwaves, not bored yawns. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


DREAMS 
I N  DARKNESS 
Though the fae spirits of old now walk the streets clad in mortal flesh 
as changelings, they still remember Kindred as one of their “Prodigal” 
races. Even though changelings can sometimes be detected by Aura 
Perception, fewer Kindred know of the Kithain; the exceptions are nor- 
mally Malkavians and the Kiasyd of the Sabbat. While most of this can be 
attributed to simple, “I don’t believe in faeries,” there are magical causes 
as well. This forgetfulness is partly because a Cainite must be “enchanted” 
in order to even see the Kithain fully, and partly because after an 
enchantment fades the Mists of the Dreaming erase the memories of what 
happened while enchanted from mortals, Kindred and others, the Kindred 
of Malkavian blood as the sole exception. 
Changelings can enchant Kindred in several different ways. Kiasyd 
with Fae Sight are always enchanted. A Cainite can be enchanted if a 
changeling convinces her to freely accept a token of enchantment. 
Feeding from a changeling can also enchant a Cainite (if the changeling 
made the offer and the Kindred accepted), and at Storyteller discretion 
may induce any number of weird effects, from hallucinations to derange- 
ments. Malkavians who feed on changelings are freed from the effects of 
one derangement but must win or tie a Simple Test with a Narrator to 
avoid developing an addiction to the heady vitae - 
and a Cainite with 
a craving for Kithain blood is rarely welcome in changeling freeholds. A 
Cainite normally stays enchanted for one day per Glamour Trait in- 
vested in a token of enchantment or one day per blood trait ingested; 
Staying in a changeling glade or freehold can prolong this. As long as the 
vampire has one Trait of changeling blood in her system, she can see 
chimerical reality. 
When a Cainite passes from enchantment to mundane reality; or 
when he is slain by chimerical monsters, weapons or magic; he normally 
falls into a torpor with the duration based upon his Banality. For most 
Kindred this can last up to two months. A Cainite may avoid falling into 
this torpor when enchantment slips away by spending a Willpower Trait 
(Malkavians need not spend this trait - 
they automatically avoid this 
torpor). If slain chimerically, though, a Cainite is “out for the count,” as 
described in The Shining Host. 
Kindred are undead creatures with an unnatural, rigid stasis; they do 
not grow and live. Because of this, many Kindred harbor high levels of 
the Banality that can be so lethal to changelings. As described in The 
Shining Host, Malkavian and Ravnos Kindred normally have six Traits 
of Banality, mortals have six or seven Banality Traits, and other Kin- 
dred, including Kiasyd, have eight or nine Traits of Banality. You may 
choose to adjust the amount of Banality for factors such as high Human- 
ity, Path ratings or youth. 
Banality can prove dangerous to changelings and deadly to chimeri. 
cal companions. By her sheer unmoving presence, a stodgy and 
unbelieving Ventrue elder may dissipate a changeling’s chimerical arms 
and armor and slay the changeling’s chimerical companions. If a change- 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ling is foolish or unlucky enough to drink Cainite vitae, she can become 
a ghoul (or even blood bound) and also gains one Trait of temporary 
Banality for every Cainite blood trait ingested. If you want to further 
emphasize the cold and unnatural presence of Kindred, you might grant 
one Trait of temporary Banality every hour that a changeling spends in 
the company of 10 or more Kindred. 
Though the powers of the blood of Caine and the cantrips of the faerie 
Dreaming are different, several Disciplines may interact with the chimerical 
reality of changelings: 
As described under Mytherceria, Fae Sight allows Kiasyd to see and 
interact with changelings. 
The illusions created by Chimerstry remain as incidental chimera 
even after they fade to mundane perception. Sluagh may use their 
Sharpened Senses (and a Mental Challenge) to attempt to pierce 
Chimerstry illusions. 
A Cainite attempting to use Aura Perception on a changeling may 
perceive what he’s seeing by the changeling’s particular aura - 
it shows itself 
as bright, flickering colors. High Auspex can also counter Chicanery in the 
same way that Auspex and Obfuscate can counter each other. 
Most changelings are affected by Obfuscate no differently than any 
other creature. Sluagh may attempt to pierce these with their Sharpened 
Senses and a Mental Challenge. 
Kindred claws and teeth inflict aggravated damage on changelings. 
However, changelings can inflict aggravated damage with any cantrip that 
inflicts direct damage on their targets, such as Holly Strike. This damage works 
no differently than any other aggravated damage. 
T H E  D E A D A N D T H E  
DAMNED 
Death is not always final in the Gothic-Punk world. Those dead who are 
bound by their passions and remorse can become wraiths, condemned to 
spend eternity fighting against entropy and the forces of Oblivion. Others 
become Spectres, the servants of Oblivion. As walking undead who may exist 
for centuries, Kindred frequently become allies and pawns in the games that 
the Restless Dead play. 
Oblivion-serving Spectres cannot easily see the Skinlands, the lands 
of the living. Wraiths belonging to the Hierarchy are theoretically 
prohibited from contacting mortals (although Charon’s prohibition is 
honored more in the breach than practice). The wraiths of the illicit 
Guilds, the rebellious Renegades and fanatical Heretics may be the ones 
Kindred encounter most. With the advent of the storm winds of the Sixth 
Great Maelstrom, many of these wraiths cannot easily approach Kindred 
unless the Kindred venture into a place in the lands of the living that 
correspond to a safe haven from the storms in the Shadowlands, such as 
a cemetery that corresponds to a Hierarchy Necropolis or an abandoned 
house that serves as the Haunt belonging to a Circle of Renegades. 
Wraiths are separated from mortals by a barrier of emotion and mortal 
disbelief in ghosts called the Shroud. It is this barrier that wraiths and 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


vampires must pierce if they wish to interact with each other. The Shroud 
thins in places where mortal belief encourages the idea of ghosts: grave- 
yards, foggy roads, old attics, certain nights of the year - 
and thickens 
where it does not: parking lots, shopping malls. Many Kindred havens and 
hangouts often have moderate Shroud ratings. 
Of the forbidden Guilds, the four Guilds teaching the Arcanoi of 
Embody, Outrage, Pandemonium and Puppetry are the most likely to 
interact with Kindred, though many wraiths using these Arcanoi on 
Kindred belong to no Guild. With Embody, wraiths may manifest to 
Kindred; given the long undead “life” of most Kindred, they are a perfect 
consort for attunement for Embody. Spooks and Haunters using Outrage 
and Pandemonium often haunt Kindred because of the Pathos they gain 
from tormenting vampires. Kindred are particularly vulnerable to fren- 
zies induced by illusions of blood created with Foul Humor or windows 
opened in a haven by Death’s Touch. Finally, practitioners of the 
Puppetry Arcanos find that attuning a Cainite results in a wonderfully 
long-lasting Consort for possession. 
Wraiths may use their powers of Deathsight, Lifesight and Sharpened 
Senses to examine Kindred; Spectres normally cannot, unless they have the 
Arcanoi known as Shroud Rending. When looking for a Cainite who has 
hidden herself in a crowd of mortals, a wraith can easily spot her by her signs 
of arrested death using the wraith‘s own Deathsight. A wraith may also use 
Lifesight to perform a form of Aura Perception; the paler aura of most Kindred 
usually reveals them for what they are. Finally, a wraith may use Sharpened 
Senses to pierce Cainite Chimerstry or Obfuscate as if the wraith had the basic 
levels of Auspex. 
Wraiths usually associate with vampires as haunts or spirit mentors. 
Haunts may occasionally be extremely hostile and dedicated to a Cainite’s 
destruction, but this is rare. Many haunts either have a Kindred as a 
Fetter or are using the Kindred as a source of Pathos. Vampires have a 
way of creating wraiths, and it only takes one careless feeding for a 
Kindred to have a companion that will never leave. As much as a wraith 
might hate the vampire who created her, she is unlikely to destroy that 
Fetter. Her Shadow, on the other hand, is not quite so particular. A 
wraith that uses Kindred as a source of Pathos, on the other hand, may 
not be as sentimental about keeping the Cainite around. If, however, she 
has put in the rime and effort into attuning the Cainite for Embody or 
Pandemonium, she is unlikely to destroy the Cainite out-of-hand; instead 
she will focus on making the Cainite’s life as miserable as her creativity 
allows (and with the right Arcanoi, she can make forever seem like a 
very long time indeed). In turn, a Cainite can cause problems for a wraith 
by the simple expedient of running through the location where the 
wraith is standing, temporarily disrupting the wraith and costing it a 
Corpus Trait as the wraith becomes incorporeal. 
A wraith who aids a Cainite with the Spirit Mentor Merit is much more 
helpful. Though rarely possessing Arcanoi beyond the basics, wraithly men- 
tors provide the Cainite with extra eyes and ears. In tum, the wraith probably 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


gains Pathos or other aid from the Cainite, or protects the Cainite as a Fetter. 
Spirit Mentors are almost always wraiths, though it is not unheard that the 
occasional Spectre might use Shroud Rending and manipulate a Cainite to 
tend to its Spectre cult. 
When creating a haunt or a spirit mentor, remember that the 
wraith’s personality is more important than his statistics. Oblivion is the 
obvious tool for building a wraith. For game balance, you probably do 
not want to assign the Storyteller character wraith more than Interme- 
diate Embody (Life-in-Death) or Intermediate Pandemonium (FoulHurnor), 
and you probably do not want to exceed Basic levels for other Arcanoi 
unless you have a high-powered game. Remember to determine why and 
how the wraith decided to associate with Kindred. If you’re feeling 
sadistic, you might even assign a wraith’s Psyche to help a Kindred and 
its Shadow to destroy her. 
Some vampires will have more truck with the Shadowlands than others. 
Giovanni, Harbingers of Skulls and the rare Nagaraja all interact with the 
lands of the dead. Solitary Heretic and Renegade Wraiths tend to fear these 
Kindred because of the powers granted them by Necromancy. In turn, these 
Kindred are usually smart enough to avoid angering the Hierarchy leadership 
or powerful Circles of Renegades or Heretics. After all, no Cainite wants to 
wake up from daysleep in mid-afternoon as the local wraiths dismantle her 
haven board by board. 
A few wraiths learn how to reanimate their bodies in the Skinlands, 
driven by a need or passion so fierce that they could literally not stay buried. 
These Risen often find it easy to hide among Kindred, as they exhibit many 
of the same outward signs as a vampire. Since Risen can learn the Disciplines 
of Celerity, Potence, Fortitude and Obfuscate, they are often remarkably 
successful at infiltrating Camarilla courts or anarch gangs; a few pass them- 
selves off as Sabbat, taking advantage of the opportunity of random destruction 
to cover their own tracks. Many times, a Risen can hide successfully until 
someone tries to put the bite on her - 
the resultant mouthful of embalming 
fluids (or curdled blood and vinegar) is enough to sicken the unwary, not to 
mention enraging the Risen. 
Kindred are not happy creatures. Wraiths who constantly follow Kindred 
through the night risk acquiring Angst and the rise of their darker side, the 
Shadow. If you want to further emphasize the taint of Oblivion on Kindred, 
you might grant one trait of temporary Angst for every hour that a wraith 
spends in the company of 10 or more Kindred. 
Unless the vampire has met both Shadow and Psyche, or has appro- 
priate knowledge (Wraith Lore), she is unlikely to know when the Shadow 
has come to visit as opposed to the wraith. Some Shadows do have obvious 
differences about them (a gray dove that accompanies them, cat-slit eyes), 
many times the changes between dark and light persona are so subtle that 
only a long-time associate might notice them- a sneer in place of a smile, 
humor with a hint of cruelty. It’s in the Shadow’s interest to string the 
vampire along and not let her in on the change, the better to make 
mischief. Indeed, some Shadows may live independently when their 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


wraiths fall into Slumber, sneaking out to make all sorts of associations 
that the wraith has no idea about, 
Kindred who suffer Final Death occasionally become wraiths, though 
normally they do not return as Risen. Rising requires that the body be 
reasonably intact, and vampire bodies often crumble to dust from im- 
mense age. There are two glaring exceptions to this - 
Kindred who have 
reached Golconda or been diablerized never become wraiths. Of course, 
a Giovanni who wakes up as a newly unCauled wraith usually hightails it 
back to his old Cainite family post haste lest the news of his passing bring 
out some old enemies. 
Lastly, wraiths cannot be fed from, ghouled or Embraced, even if they are 
Embodied. Nihilistics, a strange Discipline used only by the rare Nagaraja 
bloodline, allows a vampire to feast on a wraith via Soul Feasting. 
Kindred Disciplines 
Ash Path Necromancy: A vampire must have the first level of Ash 
Path Necromancy (Shroudsight) to see past the Shroud. A wraith attempt- 
ing to hide in the Shadowlands through an Arcanos from an observer in 
the living world tests against either the vampire’s Auspex or Ash Path 
rating, whichever is higher. 
Auspex: A wraith who is materialized or Embodied can be read with 
Aura Perception. As wraiths are pure emotion, their auras do not halo 
around them - 
instead, their forms shimmer with color. Risen auras read 
no differently than other vampire’s. Some claim that the Shadow can be 
seen as a muddy blot upon the aura of any wraith or Risen, but the claim 
remains unverified. 
Obfuscate: All wraiths may attempt to see through Obfuscate, using 
Lifesight and a Mental Challenge. 
Arcanoi 
Embody: Embodied wraiths are affected by all Disciplines that can affect 
ordinary mortals (Dominate, Presence). Arcanoi normally hampered by the 
Shroud work without interference. 
Fatalism: This Arcanos does not always work on those across the 
Shroud, especially Kindred (spend another Mental Trait in challenges). 
When it does work, though, the results can be very.. . interesting. Fatal Vision 
allows the wraith to witness the vampire’s Embrace, the end of his mortal life. 
Keening: At Storyteller discretion, an Embodied wraith may spend a 
Willpower (in addition to any other expenses) and perform Requiem, which 
may force a vampire into or out of frenzy. 
Moliate: Vicissitude and Moliate are nothing alike, although they are 
very similar in ideas. Moliate works only on wraithly plasm while Vicissitude 
works only flesh (Embody doesn’t count here). While an irritated Tzimisce 
may perform Vicissitude on the body a wraith happens to Skinride, it has no 
effect on the wraith. 
Outrage: Death’s Touch may start fires that ignite clothing but not 
undead flesh. Obliviate works as usual on vampires and may be soaked 
with Fortitude. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Pandemonium: Any blood created with this Arcanos is completely 
unusable to vampires and will even induce intense bouts of vomiting if 
consumed. A vampire targeted by Tempus Fugit cannot gain further 
extra actions with Celerity, but Tempus Fugit can negate additional 
Celerity actions. 
Phantasm: This Arcanos affects vampires no differently than mortals - 
they can be pulled into dreamscapes and acted on. While in dreamscape, 
Kindred may not spend blood or use Disciplines. 
Puppetry: If the Kindred is aware of its effects, she can make a 
Willpower Challenge, or spend two Willpower, to attempt to force the 
wraith out. If commands issued by Dominate and Puppetry conflict, the 
vampire issuing the command and the wraith go to a Willpower Chal- 
lenge. The loser cannot attempt to override the winner’s commands 
until the following night. 
Usury: This cannot be used to steal blood, or to steal or restore health 
levels from one Kindred to another. 
B L O O D A N D  
M A ~ I C  
True willworkers, mages are rarer than their partially Awakened 
hedge wizard counterparts. This may be good for Cainite society; a 
confederacy of Technocratic willworkers was partly responsible for the 
destruction of the Ravnos Antediluvian. Several factions of mortal 
mages are aware of Kindred, and a few of these are openly hostile. The 
Order of Hermes, for example, still holds animosity toward the Kindred 
of Clan Tremere, and both the Verbena and the Euthanatos consider 
Kindred to be unnatural abominations. The Technocracy would gladly 
destroy any Cainite who exposes the truth of vampiric existence to the 
masses (so long as a few study subjects are saved for the Progenitors). The 
infernalist Nephandi have studied the undead as well, perhaps even 
occasionally sharing infernal tutors.. . . 
A few mages may still seek out Cainite company for a variety of reasons, 
and that is where tragedy usually begins. Kindred resonate strongly with 
entropic energy. Any mage who travels too often in the company of Kindred 
risks acquiring entropic Resonance Traits, especially the taint of Jhor. 
While these Traits may help in certain castings, they mark the mage and 
lead other mortals to feel uncomfortable around the mage, as described in 
Laws of Ascension. 
Kindred often ghoul those who provide them with useful services. 
While all ghouls are forced to trade away some of their Humanity and 
freedom for a shadow of Cainite power, mages risk more. The Avatar of a 
ghouled mage becomes addicted to relying on the power of vampire blood. 
Lulled into a stupor, it slowly drifts into Oblivion. In a real sense, 
becoming a ghoul is the opposite of striving toward Ascension. The 
Embrace is even worse - as the Tremere painfully discovered, the 
Embrace extinguishes an Awakened Avatar and causes the mage to lose 
her abilities. While she might be more receptive to learning Thaumaturgy, 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


blood magic is a poor substitute for the Spheres. Most mages who find 
themselves in such a condition commit suicide shortly thereafter. 
Some Storytellers may be tempted to let mages do almost anything 
imagined - 
resist the temptation. Remember that each mage has a paradigm 
that she must follow. For example, let’s say that you are considering having 
a Storyteller character mage who can turn Kindred into lawnchairs. What is 
her paradigm? Is she Verbena? A Verbena might turn someone into a toad, 
temporarily, but not lawn ornaments. Order of Hermes? She is more likely to 
transform someone into a mythical beast than something found in a garden 
shop. In short, it’s unlikely. 
Can a Kindred be restored to mortality? Entirely possible, say the 
legends, but this takes the powers of a Master or Oracle of Sphere magic, 
and they have fled this world, with most barred from re-entering by the 
Avatar storm that shrieks incessantly on the other side of the Gauntlet. 
Even if one of these mighty ones could be found, the Effect is highly 
vulgar and the Paradox riskcatastrophic. Magic can also be used to break 
a blood bond, whether amortal’s or vampire’s, although this too is a risky 
proposition, one whose difficulty increases for every decade the bond 
has been in effect. 
It is possible for a mage call on her Spheres to combat certain 
Kindred Discplines, most often Animalism, Dominate, Presence and 
Thaumaturgy, an effort called countermagic. At Storyteller discretion, a 
mage may be able to counter specific Discipline powers that target the 
mind or soul with appropriate Spheres. To counter Animalism, Dominate 
or Presence, a mage must have Basic Mind, spend a Willpower Trait and 
make an Arete Challenge. To counter Thaumaturgy, the mage spends 
the Willpower and makes the Arete Challenge. By expending a Mental 
Trait, she may either interrupt a Thaumaturgy ritual or negate its effects 
after its completion. 
Vampiric blood magic is relatively simple, being powered by Kindred 
vitae. While not as versatile as the Spheres, blood magic’s static effects do not 
incur Paradox, and blood magic may be used to counter a mage’s Effects. 
Those using Thaumaturgy, blood magic of Assamites or Setites, or Tzimisce 
kolduns make a Willpower Challenge against the mage in a countermagic 
attempt. A number of Tremere practice a specific path called Thaumaturgical 
Countermagic (The Camarilla Guide), said to be quite effective in dealing 
with mage Effects. 
In challenges between Auspex versus illusion or invisibility rotes 
- 
or Obfuscate or Chimerstry versus sensory Effects - 
use the Auspex 
versus Obfuscate rule in Laws of the Night. The level of Sphere in use 
(or highest Sphere for combined effects) and the level of the Disci- 
pline are compared. 
Life magic does not affect vampires. Most Life Effects that work on a 
mortal body can be performed on a vampire using Matter. To heal a vampire, 
the mage must use Matter and Prime in a conjunctional Effect. The same rules 
of coincedence for healing a mortal with Life are in effect. Healing aggravated 
wounds is always vulgar. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


I 
I 
Any damaging Effect powered by Prime (except Life Effects) inflicts 
aggravated damage. An attack with Intermediate Prime or fire- or electric- 
ity-based Forces will also cause aggravated damage. Intermediate Forces 
and Basic Prime is necessary to create sunlight for an attack. Creating 
sunlight at night or calling sunlight from somewhere else on the planet are 
both vulgar. 
Vampire blood is worth Tass - 
two Traits of vampire blood equals one 
Trait of Tass. If used for this, wise mages collect the blood in a container. 
PSYCHICSAND 
SHAMANS 
A N D  SOIICBREXIS, 
OH MY! 
Kindred were once mortals, and most regularly interact with the 
mortal world, even if only to feed. The World of Darkness holds 
many unusual creatures in addition to Kindred, Garou, changelings 
and wraiths, and mortal humans are often among the most surpris- 
ing. Liber des Goules describes the roles of ghouls in mortal 
society. Laws of the H u n t  and Laws of the H u n t  Players’ Guide 
describe psychics, sorcerers and clergy who also people the World of 
Darkness. If you use these sources, remember that ordinary mortals 
aren’t as robust as Kindred and have a maximum of eight Physical, 
Social or Mental Traits if they have no supernatural abilities or 
heritage, and a maximum of nine Physical, Social or Mental traits 
if they have a supernatural heritage (ghoul, Kinfolk, Kinain) or 
have Numina. 
PSYCHIC 
E R I E N D S  NETWORK 
As the Storyteller, you can use Laws of the Hunt to prepare Storyteller 
characters or Narrate for players who have psychic powers, called Numina. 
You may also choose to create hedge wizards and shamans from Laws of the 
Hunt as well instead of using the more complex systems in Laws of the Hunt 
Players’ Guide. Players who portray psychics can add a mortal flavor to a 
vampire game with their ability to walk in the daylight and use special powers 
such as Psychometry or Telepathy. Keep in mind, though, that the Cainite 
Embrace destroys psychic Numina, and the player of a psychic character may 
be frustrated at losing the months of experience that she has invested in the 
psychic power. Also remember that mortal psychics cannot heal as fast as 
Kindred and are more vulnerable to many environmental concerns, such as 
lack of air or temperature extremes. You may even want to emphasize the fear 
and uncertainty faced by mortal friends and allies of Kindred through the 
experiences of a relatively defenseless psychic character. 
Certain Cainite Disciplines may interact strangely with 
psychic Numina: 
At higher levels, Psychometry often yields more potent images 
than a Cainite using Auspex’s power of the Spirit’s Touch and can 
overwhelm the psychic. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Normally, a psychic can use only use the Psychometry power of 
Flashback on fresh corpses to determine manner of death; with a Cainite, 
though, a psychic can engage in the normal Static Mental Challenge 
and receive visions of her Embrace, even if it was not recent. 
A mortal with the Telepathy Numina may intercept and be intercepted by 
a Cainite with the Auspex power of Telepathy with a Static Mental Challenge. 
This can occasionally be unsettling for the Cainite who “overhears” a mortal 
using Telepathy to read an animal or a subject in another room. 
SORCERERS, 
PRIESTSAND 
SHAMANS 
You may also wish to introduce sorcerers, priests and shaman from 
Laws of the Hunt Players’ Guide. These hedge wizards are usually more 
powerful than their counterparts from Laws of the Hunt. With 23 
different Praxes from which to choose, these hedge wizards can be 
enchanters, shapechangers or necromancers, and can imitate several of 
the powers that Kindred usually associate with certain clans, such as a 
Brujah or Toreador’s Presence or a Lasombra’s Obtenebration. Typically, 
a mortal hedge wizard’s power is weaker than that of his Cainite 
counterparts in the Tremere and Tzimisce clans, and humans have fewer 
maximum Traits than Kindred, but mortals can often do what Kindred 
cannot easily do, such as summon spirits or angels and demons with 
Praxes like Spirit Calling or Daimonis. With their powers, numbers and 
mortal organizations, mortal sorcerers can often prove to be able-bodied 
assistants or harsh foes of the Tremere or Tzimisce kolduns. 
Sorcerous Praxes occasionally interact with Cainite Disciplines: 
Demonic forces summoned with the Dark Thaumaturgy ritual of Call 
Forth the Host are very vulnerable to control by the mortal Praxis of Daimonis, 
especially powers such as Dolor and Truce. 
Obviously a mortal using Hellfire causes a Cainite witnessing its use to 
make a Courage test or enter Rotschreck. The difficulty of the test depends on 
how much fire the mortal creates. 
A Cainite with Auspex may see through the powers of the Praxis of 
Illusion as if he were attempting to pierce the phantasms of Chimerstry. 
A mortal with the Mentalis Praxis may intercept, and be intercepted by, 
a Cainite with the Auspex power of Telepathy with a Static Mental Challenge. 
CROSSOVER 
LOCALES 
You may decide to run a game mixing Kindred with other 
supernaturals. If you do decide to allow large-scale crossover, be careful 
and consistent when you choose where and when the crossover takes 
place. Some creatures are inherently antagonistic; Lupines and Kindred 
have long battled to destroy each other, so setting your scenes in 
someone’s haven or Garou caern is asking for trouble. The same applies 
to changelings as well; few motleys or households will allow undead 
Prodigals to step into their freehold. 
Kindred might rub shoulders with other supernaturals in many 
settings, such as an Elysium, the “Rack,” a club or a place of mutual 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


interest, like an art gallery. Many troupes set crossover games in the 
Elysium for Camarilla-controlled cities. This may or may not be a 
good thing, as conflict often breaks out when Kindred and others 
mix. A more neutral or open location, where the Masquerade makes 
conflict a definite no-no might work better. The local Cainite 
feeding grounds may also be a good choice for crossovers, especially 
if the common feeding grounds, often called “the Rack,” are not 
controlled by any one agency; a particular club or restaurant in the 
Rack might serve as a common place to find other supernaturals. In 
the case of wraiths, you’ll need a place where the Shroud is thinner, 
or your players will spend the better part of the game trying to pierce 
the Shroud instead of interacting. 
Wherever the setting happens to land, you’ll need to work with your 
players in managing the “common ground.” There’s more to such a spot 
than merely walking in and ordering a Type 0 cocktail and elderberry 
wine on the rocks? Who’s part of the nightly business of the place? What 
happens if someone tries to take over the place by using Influences, or 
trying to buy or bully it outright? Does the owner/operator realize that 
her place is becoming the hot spot for the local supernaturals? If yes, is 
she doing anything about it? If no, how is she being kept in ignorance? 
Most importantly, why should one group of supernaturals not gang up on 
the other group in the middle of this common spot? This last could go 
back to your plotline, it could be something settled by the setting, or 
even by how your critters interact. 
CONCLUSION 
Crossover events are one of the tools that you can use in painting 
the World of Darkness for your players. Use crossovers to increase the 
mystery and tension for your troupe, and work with them to keep 
things fresh. Be wary of too much knowledge - if you find the 
Ventrue and Toreador primogen discussing the Litany or Escheat, 
you know that you may have let things go too far (and it’s pretty 
difficult to pull back when that’s happened). Consider carefully how 
much crossover your game can take; dogs and cats living together 
(i.e., Kindred and Garou living in sin) is definitely a sign of too 
much. Remember that good drama changes the characters whom it 
touches, unlike melodrama, where characters return to the same 
setting the next game session as if it were a fanged sitcom - 
therefore, strive for good drama when bringing in new supernaturals, 
and avoid “‘monster of the week” plots. Use crossovers to emphasize 
the themes in your troupe’s games. For example, emphasize the 
importance of Humanity and the inhumanity of Kindred when a 
sidhe of House Fiona falls in love with the Toreador primogen who 
feels the flickerings of love for the first time in years ... and then 
accidentally frenzies on her lover in the throes of a passionate 
embrace. Perhaps a Risen seeks justice for the murder of his lover, but 
his justice requires the death of a particular Kindred. 
t- 
I 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Crossovers can mean a great deal of work and aggravation, and you 
don’t need to take it on if you don’t want to. Ignore player gripes if this goes 
outside the stories you want to tell - 
no one said you had to have a Bastet 
Abomination kept chained to the prince’s throne on a velvet cushion. On 
the other hand, crossovers can mean opportunities to build stories rich 
with depth and complexity. This isn’t about steel-cage matches between 
Brujah and Get of Fenris, although sometimes a good slug-fest can be 
theraputic. Nor should the Nosferatu and sluagh regularly walk in and out 
of each other’s warrens. It should be about how two very different worlds 
view each other, the tensions between them, and how mutual respect can 
eventually develop. 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


C O U R A ~ E  
00000 
B L O O D  
0000000000 
C l L l L l m c l c I L l c l L l m  
WILLPOWER 
0000000000 
LlClLlLlclclLlLlLlm 
'IVI30S 
NAME: 
CHRONICLE: 
GENERATION: 
NATURE : 
DEMEANOR: 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1
