7 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


AND TIM H A R R I ~  
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Written by: Randi-Jo Bruner, Jason Carl, Jason Feldstein and Tim Harris 
Additional writing by: Peter Woodworth 
Developed by: Peter Woodworth 
Edited by: Diane Piron-Gelman 
Previously published material has appeared in: Laws of the Night, Guide to the Anarchs, 
Time of Thin Blood 
Art Direction by: Aaron Voss 
Book Design by: Matt Milberger 
Art by: Laura Rubles 
Models: Nate Schumacher, Wendy Roberts, Steve Hayes, Lindsay Hayden, Amy 
Schoofs, Erika Janssen, Israel Quilles, Joel Talacko, Dawn Emanuele, Boyd Lescher, 
Sam, TJ & Theresa. 
~ ~ F C I A L  
THANKS 
Ken “Take the Pebble From My Hand” Cliffe, for patiently teaching me the Dao of MET. 
Carl “Razzle Dazzle ‘Em” Bowen, for his continued support and especially his help in getting 
my name up in lights. 
Charles “Mr. Camarilla” Bailey, for introducing me to the largest number of friendly people 
I’ve ever met at one time. 
Conrad “Columbo” Hubbard, for finding the time to forward all those player questions to me. 
Rebecca “To Hell With Moshing” Schaefer, for restoring my faith that real dancing has not 
totally fallen by the wayside. 
Rich “Grim Harvest” Dansky, for giving me the motivation to take up this gig all those years 
back. See what you’ve done? 
IW 
K I T E  w o L FI 
C A M E  S T U D I O  
1554 LINTTON DR 
GA 30083 
USA 
STONE MOUNTIAN, 
0 
2003 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Repro- 
ductionwithout the written permission ofthe publisher isexpressly 
forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank 
character sheets, which may he reproduced for personal use only. 
White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the 
Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, Hunter the Reckoning, World 
of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White 
Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apoca- 
lypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf 
the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great 
War, Guide to the Anarchs, Time ofThin Blood, Trinity, Laws of 
the Wild, Changing Breeds, Laws of the Night, The Anarch 
Guide, Laws of Ascension, Laws of Ascension companion, The Shining Host, The Shining Host Players Guide, 
Oblivion, Laws of the Hunt, Laws of the Resurrection, Laws of the Reckoning and Mind’s Eye Theatre are trademarks 
ofWhiteWolfPublishmg, Inc. All rightsreserved. Allcharacters, names,placesand texthereinarecopyrightedby Whlte 
Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned. 
This hook uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This hook contains mature content. Reader discretlon is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
1 
PRINTED IN CANADA. 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDL 
2 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


PRELUDE: 
SACRIFICES 
INTRODUCTORY 
DISCLAIMER 
CHAPTER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHES 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKING 
Up THE FIGHT 
CHAPTER 
THREF: 
THE REBEL 
UNLIFE 
CHAPTER 
FOUR: 
RADICAL 
THINKING 
CHAPTER 
FIVE: 
So You WANTA REVOLUTION 
CHAPTER 
SIX: 
FACES 
IN THE CROWD 
5 
10 
13 
33 
71 
121 
141 
161 
TABU OF Comm 
3 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


“Ma’am, there’s been more trouble in downtown.” 
The lithe young woman reclining on the luxurious leather sofa barely acknowl- 
edged her servant’s soft words, but the small nod was just enough to let him know she 
was listening to him instead of to the handsome guitarist across the room. “It just 
came on the news,” he continued, bending down to whisper directly in her ear. “The 
Knights burned down the Black Forest restaurant an hour ago. Firefighters are still 
clearing the scene, but it looks like a total loss.” 
“How did it happen?” Her eyes never left the young musician, who had switched 
from painfully exquisite classical guitar to a rollicking blues number. 
“According to our sources in the eighth precinct, witnesses are telling police 
that a gang of men in ‘punk‘ clothes burst through the door, assaulted the maitrC’d 
and ordered the staff and the customers to leave. Then they spread some kind of 
accelerant over the restaurant, shouted something about ‘death to all fascists’ and ran 
out of the building. A few seconds later there was a loud explosion and the (entire 
place went up in flames.’’ 
“It sounds like their work, but how can we be sure it wasn’t just some kine of 
similar disposition?” Her words were quiet, measured, without a hint of irritation. 
“These things can happen, even in our fair city.” 
“I asked our sources that too, ma’am. They passed along this information, which 
at my request they’ve agreed to keep out of the press. There was a message this time.” 
He produced a paper from his pocket and handed it to her. It read: KNIGHTS 
TERRITORY NOW OR YOUR MASQUERADE BURNS TOO. 
hLUDE: SACRIFICES 
5 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


She considered it for a few moments, then dismissed the servant with a wave of 
her hand. When she looked up, the room was quiet, several sets of unblinking eyes 
trained on her. 
‘‘I assume you all heard what just happened,” she said wryly. 
“Damn right we did!” An intense-looking young man with several body 
piercings and a number of prominent tattoos rose from his chair and began pacing 
nervously around the room. “They’re going to ruin everything!” In his corner, a 
number of nearly identical gang members murmured noises of agreement. 
“They don’t understand how this system works,” the guitarist concurred, setting 
down his instrument and settling back comfortably into the embrace of several 
beautiful, vacant-eyed female admirers. “We have been more than reasonable about 
allowing them a chance to find a place in the city before, but now.. .” He shrugged. 
“Something must be done. As always, though,” he nodded deferentially to the young 
woman, “we’ll follow your lead, Miss D.” 
All eyes turned to back to the young woman, waiting. At last she said: “I think 
we know what has to be done. They’ve overstepped their authority after repeated 
warnings, and there’s only one punishment I can think of for that: It’s time we called 
the Saracen and had him take care of it.” She looked around for signs of disapproval, 
found none, and nodded once. “It’s decided.” 
“This problem ends tonight.” 
“. . . So then1 heard this story from CitizenTop, this crazy asshole over in the UK. 
He has this theory that ‘Clan Toreador’ doesn’t really exist - 
it’s all just a big 
Malkavian prank!” Rick paused, the din of the pounding techno in the background 
underscoring his words. “Yeah, he says that every stinkin’ one of them he’s ever met 
is really a Setite, or a Caitiff, or some other weirdo trying to pass themselves off as one 
of the Degenerates, and he ain’t met an actual Degenerate yet, so it must be some kind 
of big Lunatic joke!” 
A1 threw his head back from the neck of one of the pretty young things they’d 
picked up and laughed loudly along with the others. He sounded almost as drunk as 
his giggling vessel. “Hey Carver, aren’t you supposed to have been one of those Tory 
Adores back in the day? You wanna set our boy Rick straight?” 
Carver turned and glared from his post by the rickety front door. “Leave me 
alone, guys, I’m on watch.” He twirled his favorite silver knife absently in one hand 
as he watched the party, dancing it across his fingers almost faster than the human 
eye could follow. 
“For what?” Rick yelled back, still laughing. “You think those stuffy bastards are 
gonna take us on after the number we did on their place tonight? Damn, man, they 
wouldn’t have the nuts to come at this place with so many witnesses around, 
especially in such a ghetto ‘hood like this. We got them beat.” 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
6 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


“Long live the Anarch Revolt, baby! Knights uber alles!” A1 saluted the air with 
an upraised fist, followed immediately by Rick and the other Knights. “Hell, yeah!” 
they chorused in unison, and then the victory party revved back to a deafening, 
7 roar. 
“Idiots,” Carver muttered, grinning just slightly. His smile faltered ab-ruptly 
when he realized that he hadn’t felt his knife in his hand for several momeni:s and 
hadn’t heard it hit the floor either. Turning back to the door, he had just enough time 
to register the shadowy form advancing on him before the knife sliced down in asilver 
arc. His head flew free, a look of surprise still written across its features. 
It was more warning than the others had. 
Only moments later a thoroughly unremarkable individual walked calmly but 
purposefully away from the house and vanished into thenight. Inside, the first sparkscaught 
and the dull orange glow began seeping through the windows as the fire flared into life. 
. . .  
‘‘. . . Is this what you call justice?Half adozen ofour fellow anarchs and their mortal 
friends murdered in their home, for the sake of a single restaurant?’’ In life, I3ailey 
Carlton had been a political scientist with a compelling talent for public speaking; in 
undeath, his speeches were rapidly becoming known throughout the Movement for 
their power and revolutionary fire. Sure enough, no sooner had he finished his latest 
question than an explosive roar of No’s and Hell No’s erupted from the crowd. 
“All the Knights ever asked for is what any of the rest of us want - 
a place to 
call our own, a place where we can be free to feed as we choose and dictate the way 
we run our own unlives in peace.” Bailey slammed a fist on the podium, his own 
outrage rising along with the crowd. “I ask you, Prince Elena, why did the Knights 
have to die for your petty territoriality?” Bailey’s voice suddenly rose to an accusation 
that sounded more like the thunder of avengeful god to the ears of his audience. “Why 
did you have to kill to keep them silent?” 
Just beyond the back of the crowd a small knot of individuals had gathered, their 
leather jackets and rebellious symbols blending in with the rest of the rowdy throng even 
if the looks in their eyes did not. “The kid really is excellent,” remarked one off-hancledly 
as the crowd gave another primal howl of agreement. “I gotta admit, I’m impressed. Only 
six days after the fact, and he’s already drawn at least three dozen strong.” 
“Better than we could’ve hoped,” agreed another of the group, crossing his 
heavily tattooed arms as though to ward off the noise. “Almost too good, actually. 
They’re going crazy out there.” 
“Best to make the call now, then. The sooner this is over with, the better we all 
come out of it.” At that, one of the group broke off, threaded through the sparse crowd 
of toughs by the back door and flipped open a cell phone as he walked out into the 
night, leaving the din of the crowd behind him. 
A few words later, the last play of the plan was underway. 
hLUDL: SACRIFICES 
1 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


0
.
.
 
“We both know I have you here as a courtesy only, ‘baron.”’ Prince Elena swiveled 
her chair away from her view of the downtown district, regarding her guests with a 
condescending smile that didn’t quite reach her icy blue eyes. “So make this quick.” 
“I don’t really think you’re in a position to speak to me that way at the moment.” 
Daron smiled back at her adversary, equally fierce. “For the past week, anarch packs 
have come been coming from as far away as Maine and the Carolinas after we put the 
word out about the untimely death of the Knights. I can assure you that they won’t 
be satisfied with the usual ‘be patient and we’ll get to you someday’ crap that we’ve 
gotten in the past.’’ 
“Are you threatening me?” Elena meant the words to sound low and ominous, 
but there it was, just a hint of anxiety. That was all Daron needed to see - 
this battle 
was over in every way except the negotiation of the cease-fire terms. 
“It’s not my fault you stepped in it deep, and truth be told it’s not my job to 
protect you from the consequences either. Right now most of my people want to light 
this city up and your crew along with it, and let’s be honest here. We both know that 
if I let things get ugly right now, your sheriff and his goons couldn’t handle the 
numbers we’ve mustered. Even if you got lucky and managed to hold us off, you’d be 
so weak that I’m sure Bishop Santiago up the river would just love to make a grab for 
the city.” Daron let this sink in for a moment, and when Elena said nothing, she 
continued. “On the other hand, with just a little effort I can disperse the worst of these 
troublemakers, and not only save you a lot of grief but also keep Santiago from daring 
to make a move in the bargain.” 
“And what would 1 owe you for this generous favor?” Elena’s word dripped 
sarcasm, but her eyes were defeated. 
“Full feeding rights and territorial autonomy, for my own group and the other 
established anarch packs in the city. We stay out of your business, agree to police our 
own people, and in return you consent to stop the scourge from bothering any of us 
ever again.” Daron flashed a victorious smile. “DO we have a deal?” 
Elena stewed for a moment, just long enough to save face, then shook her head 
sadly. “Against my better judgment, I will agree to honor your terms, rather than risk 
the safety of my city at the hands of the Sword of Caine.” 
Daron and her small entourage rose to leave, Sam zipping his guitar back into 
its case while Shane gestured for his waiting gang ghouls to bring him his jacket. As 
they were stepping through the door, Elena called after them: “Awfully convenient, 
those little bastards getting killed so soon after they burned my restaurant down, 
don’t you think? Couldn’t have worked out better for you if you’d planned it.” 
Daron turned in the doorway, her face and voice absolutely neutral. “Every one 
of us swears to die for the cause if that’s what it takes to achieve the goals of the 
Movement. It’s just that not everybody gets to choose when they’ll be called on to 
actually do it.” With that, she closed the door, leaving Elena alone with her troubled 
thoughts and her troubled city. 
THE ANARCH GUIDL 
8 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


c 
e 
PRELUDE: SACNFICES 
9 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


You’re only punk once 
So you’d better do it right. 
- 
Good Clean Fun, “You’re Only Punk Once” 
Welcome to The Anarch Guide, the concluding volume in the series outlining 
the major vampiric societies in the modem World of Darkness, the Anarch 
Movement. Kindred of all kinds follow the banner of the Anarch Revolt, from fiery 
rabble-rousers and passionate intellectuals to zealous warriors and cunning infiltra- 
tors. It doesn’t matter how pure your blood is or what your sire did six centuries ago; 
what matters is what you have to offer. Revolution is here - 
the only question now 
is whether you’re in or you’re out. 
Before we get into the history of the anarchs and the unique culture and talents 
they’ve developed, however, a few additional concerns need addressing. Please take 
a moment and repeat after me: 
This book is about a game that involves fictional characters in a fictional setting. It 
is not a terrorist handbook, and I am not a revolutionary. Reading this book or playing a 
character bused on this material does not entitle me to break stuff, steal things, hurt people 
or commit any other wantonly antisocial acts just because it’s “in character.” Nor should 
it be considered an excuse to heedlessly discuss vicious executions, building bombs or other 
potentially menacing activities in locations or situations where people who are not playing 
this game are likely to overhear these remarks, take them out of context and summon the 
authorities. Accidents happen, but I will do my best to avoid them us much as possible, and 
as amature individual I will take responsibility for helping clear up any problems that do arise 
from such mistakes. 
This may sound a bit extreme, but it is written with your safety and the safety of 
your group in mind. Many of the topics covered in this book have- 
even in the context 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
IO 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of a game - 
recently become extremely sensitive subjects in our post-9/11 society. As 
such, even well-meaning and responsible players can accidentally attract a lot of 
unwanted attention for actions or remarks that wouldn’t have raised an eyebrow a few 
years back. When you combine this new heightened sensitivity with the fact that you 
are playing a game that also involves costumes, lingo and behavior that most normal 
people don’t understand to begin with, things can very easily be taken out of context 
in a negative way. Hotel security probably won’t stop to ask if you’re playing a game 
before kicking you out when other guests report that you and your friends in the lobby 
are discussing building bombs, and the diner staff may feel quite justified in calling the 
police when they overhear those guys in fatigues discussing how to move a load of 
automatic weapons into the city. And let’s not start to think about what even open- 
minded parents might do these days if they hear their kid talking to those weird-looking 
new friends about planning a violent “raid” of any kind.. . 
Storytellers and players are therefore encouraged to get together before the game 
begins and go over any guidelines they feel may be necessary to avoid potential 
incidents and keep things running smoothly. Many such alterations are surprisingly 
easy to implement, especially considering the amount of trouble they prevent in the 
long term. For example, games held in public venues might well consider using the 
“Bunny-Hop Rule.” This simple rule requires that players substitute potentially 
menacing nouns like “gun” or “knife” with the word “bunny” and equally problematic 
verbs such as “shoot” or “stab” with the word “hop.” This may sound silly at first, but 
if you’re playing in a nightclub or college lounge with a lot of ordinary people within 
earshot, which would you rather hear an overly excited player accidentally shout: 
“He’s got a gun! Shoot him!” Or “He’s got a bunny! Hop him!”? The former outburst 
could easily spark a minor riot and possibly a call to the authorities as well, while the 
latter remark is much less likely to result in a bad scene, especially if your players are 
otherwise abiding by the rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre and not doing anything 
immature such as carrying weapon props. 
In short, while you should feel free to enjoy this book, this game and the character 
you play, you should also remember that no game is played in a vacuum. Unless you’re 
playing in aprivate space where your game is guaranteed to have absolutely no contact 
with “mundanes” (and possibly sometimes even then), bear in mind that you have a 
responsibility to your game and your group to make sure that your actions don’t unduly 
alarm or intimidate non-players. Remember those core guidelines for all Minds Eye 
Theatre chronicles, The Only Rules That Matter, and take extra care to Be Mindful 
of Others. Play hard, but play responsibly - 
don’t do or say things that might get you 
or your game bounced from your location, much less anything that could likely result 
in someone summoning the authorities. Not only is doing so utterly bad form if not 
outright criminal), but it’s disruptive to the game in general and a grave dissemice to 
your Storyteller and fellow players as well. Don’t do it. 
For the 99.9% of you who don’t need this disclaimer to game safely and 
responsibly, read on and have fun. 
INRODUCTORY 
DISCLAIMER 
11 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The possibility that we may fail in the struggle 
ought not to deter us from the support ofa cause we 
believe to be just. - 
Abraham Lincoln 
AN INTRODUCTION 
TO THF CAUSF 
Although the image of anarchs as little more than foul-mouthed young hooli- 
gans in leather jackets hurling insults at Elysium likely has some small basis in fact, 
the truth is that the history of the Anarch Movement suggests afar deeper motivation 
for committed anarchs than simple rebellion. The anarchs’ history is one of the most 
tragic and most passionate stories in the annals of Caine’s descendants. Despite 
countless defeats and setbacks, not to mention active predation by the two most 
deadly sects to stalk the night, true anarchs have always returned to champion their 
beliefs, even to a society that largely reviles them for doing so. 
Even first-generation converts - 
those who leave another sect to joiin the 
Movement -do so out of a sense that the anarchs, for all their flaws, are fundamentally 
correct about the injustice of Kindred society. Many Kindred who dislike certain 
aspects of Camarilla society still remain within its bounds because it is familiar and, to 
a certain degree, safe. Likewise, while the debauched excesses and brutal conflicts of the 
Sabbat horrify even some of its most jaded members, the majority remain if for no other 
reason than because they cannot envision surviving the night without a strong group 
to belong to. Suffer though they might from disorganization, the anarchs represent an 
alternative to these unliving systems, a freedom the Camarilla denies and the Sabbat 
mocks.. . but that still never seems to die. 
CHAmER ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHK 
13 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


So as the history book opens and the tragic and triumphant tale of the Anarch 
Revolt unfolds, the question becomes not why to play an anarch, but indeed, why not 
to play one. 
THE CLIMATE 
OFTHF RFVOLT 
The 14th century was one of the worst periods in recent history to be a Cainite 
in Europe. Between the growing power of the Inquisition, invading armies in the east, 
and the advent of mortal diseases (such as the Black Death) that could send vampires 
into torpor, many Cainites wanted nothing more than to disappear from the world 
entirely and be left alone. In the midst of these threats, many elders decided to do 
exactly that, choosing solitude and self-preservation over their feudal obligations to 
protect their childer. Refusing to accept and react to anunfavorable situation the way 
the elders had, neonates of Europe took their cue from mortal revolts to create their 
own destiny, to seize the freedom and rights they desired from their oppressive sires. 
Thus was conceived what would become the Anarch Movement. 
Their response was well timed. By the beginning of the 13th century, the Church 
had begun stepping up efforts to combat heresy, by appointing specialized judges who 
answered only to the pope, chosen from the new Dominican and Franciscan priestly 
orders. Within the Dominican order grew the Society of Leopold, whose members 
concerned themselves with finding and destroying perceived supernatural threats to the 
Church. The Society of Leopold refined its methods throughout the rest of the 13th 
century, and by 1300, it had succeeded in destroying hundreds of Cainites across Europe, 
particularly in and around Spain, where the Inquisition had been founded. Most heavily 
affected were the Spanish Brujah, Lasombra and Ventrue, and more neonates than elders 
(although more than a few elders owed their ends to the Society of Leopold, as well). 
The elders’ reaction to this new threat was to continue the time-honored 
tradition of using their childer as cannon fodder. Most elders went into hiding, 
leaving their progeny to deal with (or be destroyed by) the hunters on their own. 
Some even helped lead the zealous Dominicans to the havens of their childer, in the 
hopes that throwing some bait to the enemy might slow its pursuit. In the short term, 
this strategy did help to divert attention from the elders’ own whereabouts, but it also 
created great animosity between the neonates of Spain and the elders who had taken 
advantage of them. In addition, the neonates proved themselves far more resourceful 
in combating the hunters than their elders had expected, aiding each other when 
THE ANARCH 
G~IDE 
14 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


necessary and sending emissaries to other parts of Europe requesting aid against the 
Inquisitors. The eventual denial of these requests by princes and elders afraid of 
becoming targets by association served to increase the neonates’ resentment. 
Like so many events in the history of the Kindred, the spark that ignited what was 
to become the Anarch Revolt came not from a Cainite, but from a mortal. In 138 1, the 
peasant Wat Tyler led a revolt of his fellow peasants against local British nobility. The 
revolutionaries killed the Archbishop of Canterbury and held London for a short while, 
forcing the king to fulfill some of their demands. The king’s agents captured Tyler’s 
lover, Patricia of Bolingbroke, and she was promptly sentenced to death. While she was 
in prison, she met Robin Leeland, a Brujah of some repute, who Embraced her and 
accepted her pledge to fight for justice for all eternity. Taking the last name Tyler after 
her now fallen lover, Patricia escaped and gathered like-minded individuals (mortal 
and Cainite alike) to attack the English nobility in his name. Once she finally realized 
the futility of this pursuit, Tyler left England for Spain, where she came into contact 
with a Ventrue elder called Hardestadt, the originator of the idea of the Camarilla. 
As she learned of Hardestadt’s plans, Patricia found herself hard pressed to see 
a difference between an organization of elders banding together for mutual protec- 
tion and the nobles who had destroyed her family and everyone she once loved. She 
expressed her distaste for the idea quite forcefully- by leading a large coterie of like- 
minded Brujah and Lasombra neonates in an assault on Hardestadt’s castle. Although 
the group suffered numerous casualties, Tyler herself was able to reach the incredu- 
lous Hardestadt, destroy him and devour his soul. 
When word of her victory reached other Spanish Brujah neonates, they erupted 
in a frenzy against the elders who had betrayed them and refused to come to their aid 
in times past. No declaration of war was necessary and no banners were flown. Young 
Spanish Brujah decided as a group that they’d had enough of being manipulated and 
undervalued by the elders who, under the Lextalionis they claimed to value so much, 
should be responsible for helping to protect them. In some ways, this uprising 
resembled a mass frenzy among the younger generations of the Brujah; with little or 
no warning, they tumed violently upon their elders, thirsty not for potent vitae, but 
for the freedom and equality they had so long been denied. The revolutionaries began 
using the term anarch to describe themselves, as a symbol of their contempt for 
traditional elder dominance over childer. After overcoming the initial shock, the 
elders naturally fought back, and the blood of old and young Cainites alike ran freely 
through the streets of Spain. 
Much of this blood belonged to the ancillae, who were generally weaker and 
more accessible than the elders sought by the anarchs. A few ancillae did join the 
Anarch Revolt, most often in the hope of gaining greater power, but the majority 
remained in the service of their sires. Those who did became the first lines of defense 
against the onslaught of anarchs, which - 
after the loss of their neonate servants to 
the anarch cause - 
suited the elders perfectly. 
Especially considering its final outcome, the Anarch Revolt is sometimes 
overlooked by modem students of Cainite history as a failed attempt to establish a 
new social order. The Revolt was itself a great breakthrough, however, in the social 
CHAFER ONE: HIVORY IN ASHES 
15 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


order of the undead, as the first time since the slaying of the Second Generation that 
a large group of Kindred joined together to liberate themselves from the tyranny of 
their elders, rather than simply to diablerize a specific elder. Part of the anarchs’ 
success stemmed from the elders’ great surprise - 
upon first hearing of the revolt, 
many elders were at first unwilling to believe the story. Many were vain enough that 
they only began to realize the extent of the threat once the anarchs had broken down 
their doors and were coming at their throats. Far more than a small band of diablerists, 
the anarchs were a group of Cainites devoted to changing Kindred society for the 
better. Although the initial attacks might have been motivated by pure revenge, the 
anarchs were drawn ever closer by their commitment to creating a Cainite power 
structure in which they could be secure. If the elders would only respond to deadly 
force, though, the anarchs were prepared to deliver it. 
Some modem conspiracy theorists point to the simultaneous frenzy of several 
generations of Brujah as an indication that the Anarch Revolt was simply a move in 
the plans of some elder hoping to eliminate rivals. If this were true, it could very well 
be one of the greatest ruses in Kindred history - 
to trick the neonates of an entire clan 
into attacking their elders, and even further, to believe it was their own idea and not 
one planted in their minds. With few exceptions, however, the few who subscribe to 
this theory count themselves among the Clan of the Moon, as only an “enlightened” 
mind can grasp the subtleties of such a vast and effective move in the Jyhad. Most 
Kindred agree, however, that the Brujah were reacting instinctively to the centuries of 
neglect they had suffered at the hands of their sires. Even if the designs of a Methuselah 
were somehow involved, without the rage and indignation of the Brujah who would 
become anarchs, such a plan could not have had even a chance of success. 
Despite their enthusiasm, rage, and craftiness, however, the anarchs soon found 
themselves at a distinct disadvantage. Once the element of surprise had been 
exhausted, the anarchsfaced an enemy that was, on the whole, far more experienced, 
powerful and resourceful than they. After the preparations most elders had taken to 
guard against the Society of Leopold, those few whose havens were even accessible 
had dizzying arrays of servants, ghouls, childer, traps and other deterrents to potential 
enemies - 
not to mention the powers at the disposal of the elders themselves. 
The anarchs also quickly learned to their dismay that enthusiasm and spirit are 
no substitute for a central organization and a communications network; too often, 
they allowed old rivalries to resurface among themselves rather than devoting 
themselves fully to their stated cause. At this point, only a few Cainites of other clans 
joined the Brujah in their revolt, as most considered it a problem of the Brujah clan 
alone, rather than as the general social uprising it was. As a result, the revolt did not 
extend much beyond the borders of Spain for most of the 14th century. As the 
conflict dragged on, anarchs found themselves fighting against servants several steps 
removed from the elders they sought, which was just the type of conflict that the 
elders knew they could eventually win. 
Despite the slowing success of the anarchs, news of their effort spread quickly 
through the Kindred courts of Europe. In their havens and salons, Cainites of all clans 
began to discuss an idea that might have been considered a breach of the Traditions 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
16 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


a century before - 
that the anarchs might be justified in demanding the right to 
decide their own fate. Naturally, younger Cainites were most receptive to the idea. 
Some felt that all Cainites should unite to combat the common threat of the 
Inquisition, while others saw the Inquisition as an opportunity to demand greater 
freedom in exchange for aiding the elders. Notions of greater freedom varied from 
Cainite to Cainite, from freedom to Embrace or to choose one’s own victims to 
complete independence from elder control, but many of the anarchs’ ideas found 
receptive audiences in neonates outside of Spain. 
The response among elders was much the opposite. Nearly all of them agreed that 
now was the time to tighten their grip on their childer, so as to prevent a repeat ‘of the 
“Spanish disaster.” The Lextalionis would be enforced, whether or not some violent 
neonates had gotten it into their heads that they could change the world. Amazed and 
fearful at the outcome of the Anarch Revolt in Spain, many elders began to examine 
their childer for any signs of possible revolt, keeping them under an ever more watchful 
eye. Those who still supported the creation of the Camarilla used Spain as an example 
ofwhat could happen to elders who remained disorganized in the face of this new threat. 
Many elders were still unwilling to accept that any group of neonates could truly be 
enough of a threat to be worth sharing power even with other elders. As the revolt grew, 
however, the idea of mutual protection became more and more attractive to elders who 
feared they might be the next targets of the anarchs’ rage. 
THE KEEPERS 
For the most part, Lasombra elders were among the most controlling of their 
childer with regard to the anarchs; many prohibited their childer from meeting ‘other 
Cainites or even leaving their havens without permission. But one Lasombra elder - 
Gratiano de Veronese, reputedly the last childe of the Lasombra antediluvian -- 
saw 
in the anarchs an opportunity to accomplish the goals he had harbored for the two 
centuries since his Embrace. Around the year 1400, Gratiano began secretly aiding the 
Anarch Movement, offering his advice on organizing the sometimes fractious anarchs 
into a more streamlined fighting force, and helping to identify the Movement’s major 
leaders. In addition, he spread the anarchs’ message to the Lasombra neonates of Italy. 
Most importantly, however, Gratiano took it upon himself to travel to the Holy Land, 
where he made contact with the Assamites on the anarchs’ behalf. 
CHAIER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHES 
17 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Assamites had been traveling across Europe for some time now, committing 
diablerie in accordance with their religious beliefs. For the most part, though, they 
had failed to locate many elders in Spain, since the battles between elder and anarch 
had driven most of the elders into hiding. The Assamites needed help finding elders, 
which the Brujah could provide, and the Brujah needed the Assamites’ help as scouts, 
advisors and sorcerers. The Assamites’ talents for stealth helped the Bruj ah to find 
and enter previously impenetrable elder havens, and in return, the Assamites 
received the Amaranth they desired. The tide of the revolt slowly began to turn 
against the Spanish elders. 
At the same time, Gratiano’s efforts at spreading the anarch message to neonates 
in Italy came to fruition. In 1446, Lasombra neonates and ancillae gathered in 
Verona, where they resolved to start their own revolt in Italy. Although he did not 
attend the meeting, Gratiano’s campaign of confusion and misinformation among 
Italian elders helped to ensure that they were even less prepared for initial anarch 
attacks than the elders of Spain had been. For the next 35 years, the anarchs’ attacks 
raged virtually unchecked throughout Italy. 
In about 1483, Gratiano led many Brujah, Lasombra and Assamite anarchs in 
an attack on the Lasombra Antediluvian’s haven in Sicily. Both the anarchs and the 
Ancient’s servants suffered heavy losses, but eventually the five surviving anarchs, 
Gratiano among them, succeeded in reaching the haven’s inner sanctum. Once 
there, they drained the creature dry - 
and, at least by some accounts, diablerized it 
as well. When news of the anarchs’ victory spread to other Lasombraelders, many lost 
their will to fight; those who did not disappear eventually joined the anarch cause out 
of simple necessity. Rather than assuming leadership of the clan, Gratiano declared 
that the Lasombra would now choose their leaders based on merit rather than age or 
generation. Unfortunately, most Lasombra anarchs became so involved in arguing 
and fighting over what this new merit system would be that their involvement with 
the Anarch Movement all but ceased. Not until the creation of the Sabbat would 
these Lasombra again leave their mark on Kindred society. 
THE BOND 
BREAKERS 
The Tzimisce of Eastern Europe may not have had to worry about the Inquisition, 
but beset as they were by multiple invading forces, this was small consolation at best. 
Between the Germans on the west, the Mongols on the east, the Turks on the south 
and the Teutonic Knights on the north, it seemed at this point that the entire mortal 
world wanted a piece of the clan’s ancestral lands. Even worse, the Tzimisce also found 
themselves at war with the Tremere, determined to stamp out koldunic sorcery to 
preserve their perceived monopoly on blood magic. Like the Spanish Brujah before 
them, the Tzimisce took the easy way out - 
sacrificing their childer while slinking off 
to hide in well-guarded castles and fortresses to plan their next move. 
But thanks to the Tzimisce neonates Velya and Lugoj (later known as Blood- 
breaker), this situation soon swung in the neonates’ favor. The two discovered the 
koldunic ritual that could break the blood bonds holding so many neonates in thrall - 
the same ritual that would later become the Vaulderie after the formation of the Sabbat. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
18 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


By mixing the blood of several neonates, a blood bond could be replaced by a loyalty to 
the group whose blood was used. The secret of the Vaulderie spread quickly among the 
younger Fiends, many ofwhom soon discovered that without the false loyalty of the blood 
bond, they hated their sires passionately. Inspired by the example of the Spanish Erujah, 
they decided to rise up, overthrow their sires and end this oppression permanently. 
Although a few Tzimisce neonates remained with their masters out of genuine 
loyalty, the vast majority joined Lugoj Bloodebreaker in his call for the elders’ blood. 
The offensive began in 1459, and with their personal knowledge of many of the 
elders’ havens, the Tzimisce anarchs often found themselves successful where even 
the Tremere had failed. Beyond their devotion to mutual security and freedotn, the 
young Fiends found themselves growing ever closer through the Vaulderie as well. As 
a result, their organization far surpassed that of the elder Fiends, who were still too 
proud to trust each other. Like the Lasombra of Italy, the young Tzimisce used a 
convert-or-die approach toward their elders, with a surprising degree of success. 
The final blow to the elders’ morale came when Lugoj and his coterie, also 
following the Lasombra’s example, invaded the haven of the Tzimisce Antediluvian. 
Lugoj claimed the right to diablerize the Ancient himself, taking its power for his 
own, and in recognition of the freedom he had helped so many anarchs to reach, the 
others allowed him to do so. Lugoj then sank into torpor, as did the resolve of the 
remaining independent elders of clan Tzimisce. The anarchs soon found that the 
encroaching forces were too much for even them to handle, and most decided to head 
west into Central and Western Europe. 
THF RFVOLT 
Upon reaching Eastern Europe, the Tzimisce anarchs proved to be the deciding 
factor in spreading the anarch revolt beyond the boundaries of Spain and Italy. The 
revolt in Spain had been underway for over acentury, and in Italy nearly as long:, with 
both areas suffering heavy casualties. The arrival of the Fiends with the secret of the 
Vaulderie upset what fragile balance remained between neonates and elders in other 
European countries. Anxious to be free of their blood bonds, neonates and arcillae 
of every clan flocked to the anarch cause, eagerly trading a pledge of loyalty to the 
Anarch Movement for freedom from their elders’ control. 
In the confusion that ensued, clan boundaries between the anarchs were often 
forgotten in the battle to destroy local elders. A few elders successfully negotiated 
peace terms with isolated anarch groups, but many of these soon found that other 
anarchs did not know about or respect such agreements. The lines between anarch 
and loyal childe also became blurred, often because of elders’ fear of destruction - 
some childer found themselves thrown out of the haven of a sire to whom they were 
completely loyal, simply because of their generation. Such displaced Cainites often 
added to the ranks of the anarch cause, for protection if not out of genuine agreement. 
THE CHURCHSTRIKFC~RACK 
If the elders who had survived this long through the Anarch Revolt had learned 
one thing from the conflict, it was never to underestimate their childer. Unfortu- 
CHAPTER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHB 
19 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


nately, most allowed their conceits about mortals to prevent them from extending 
this lesson to the Inquisition, and the anarchs made the same mistake. As the Revolt 
intensified, both sides became increasingly sloppy about hiding the conflict from the 
mortals around them. This was particularly true for clans Toreador and Lasombra, 
whose power bases were concentrated partly in the Church, and as a result were 
already closer to the Inquisition’s view than most clans. 
As evidence of supernatural threats to the Church increased, several members 
of the Society of Leopold petitioned Pope Innocent VI11 for greater support. The 
Pope responded in 1484 by making witches the official concern of the Inquisition. 
He also increased the resources at the Inquisition’s disposal and appointed the first 
Inquisitor-General to oversee the organization’s new goal. The renewed Society of 
Leopold successfully destroyed scores of vampires across Europe. Although the 
Inquisition was unaware of distinctions between elder and anarch, more anarchs 
suffered from its notice because the elders were generally much more experienced at 
hiding themselves. This became increasingly true as Toreador and Ventrue elders 
established contacts within the Inquisition and enjoyed some success at directing it. 
THF FOUNDING 
OF THF CAMARILLA 
THF FLDFRS 
UNITE 
Throughout the Revolt, a group of Cainites led by a Ventrue calling himself 
Hardestadt (strange in itself, since the original Hardestadt had been slain by Tyler nearly 
a century before) continued to advocate the formation of a large organization of 
“Kindred” who would work together to crush the anarchs. After the Lasombra neonates 
revolted in 1446, many elders agreed to limited cooperation, sharing resources, informa- 
tion and childer for attacks against anarchs and Assamites. However, in 1486 Hardestadt 
convinced the leaders of the major European clans to take their cooperation one step 
further by sending representatives to a formal meeting inVienna. This was the beginning 
of the Camarilla, and the beginning of the end for the Anarch Revolt. 
The formation of the Camarilla removed the one advantage the anarchs had left 
-despite their relative disorganization, their conviction had thus far helped to unite 
them and make them more effective than the elders. With elders beginning to work 
closely together, though, the anarchs found themselves up against an enemy not only 
older, wiser, and more experienced, but also far better organized. Between the agents 
of the Inquisition and those of the new Camarilla, the anarchs were outnumbered, 
outmaneuvered, and outclassed. By 1493, only seven years after the formation of the 
Camarilla, numerous anarch leaders met with Hardestadt to discuss terms of peace. 
While some anarchs considered this a betrayal of the cause, these leaders felt it was 
better tonegotiate while they still had some power, rather than being forced to accept 
far less favorable terms after a decisive defeat somewhere down the line. 
Leaders from both sides met in the Abbey of the Sacred Crown near the small 
English village of Thorns, where they drafted what came to be known as the 
Convention of Thorns. In fact, the Camarilla representatives drafted the document 
and the anarchs were lucky to get a few concessions. Under the Convention, the 
+
I
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
20 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHES 
21 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-4 
anarchs would return to their former places as subjects of their elders, and in return 
all but “the most heinous of crimes” committed during the revolt would be forgiven. 
The Assamites would also be prevented from drinking the blood of other Cainites 
through a magical curse. As a whole, the Convention was less like a peace agreement 
than a set of terms for surrender, but most of the anarchs accepted it, particularly the 
Brujah, who had suffered the greatest losses. 
The Assamites, who had also suffered heavily during the revolt, declined the offer 
to j oin the Camarilla. The Founders attempted to pressure them into joining by torturing 
one of the six captive Assamite elders to death on the spot, as an example of what would 
befall the other five if the Assamites did not join. The Assamite representative agreed that 
this would be unfortunate, but refused to change his clan’s position, offering areasonable 
ransom for the elders. Realizing they could not force the point any further, the Founders 
accepted the ransom, and the Tremere laid the now infamous curse on the Assamites that 
made the vitae of other Cainites poisonous to them. The Assamites returned to their own 
lands defeated but with their sovereignty intact. 
While most of the anarchs agreed that the Convention of Thorns was a 
necessary concession, many - 
particularly those of the Lasombra and Tzimisce clans 
-vehemently disagreed. The leader of the Lasombra delegation spoke for all of them 
when, after reading the first draft, she denounced it and the elders who had written 
it, declaring eternal war on them in the name of those who stood with her. Those of 
other clans who left the Convention with her were to become the antimibu of the 
Sabbat, whose first act of defiance toward the Camarilla was to destroy the nearby 
village of Silchester and slaughter all its inhabitants. 
Whatever else might be said about the Convention of Thorns, it did accomplish 
its stated goal of bringing peace to the Kindred of Europe. After the rampant slaughter 
of more Kindred than any other single time in history, both sides were thankful for 
that fact. Kindred historians have estimated that the majority of European vampires 
active in 1381 had met their ends by 1493. The Camarilla took advantage of this 
thinning of the ranks by only allowing loyal elders to sire neonates, while former 
elders rarely received permission from their princes. Over the next few centuries, the 
visible anarch presence in Europe all but disappeared, and Camarilla members came 
to believe the Movement would never again threaten the established order. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
22 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHES 
23 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


REVOLUTION’S ASHES 
Upon first glance after the conclusion of the Convention of Thorns, the Anarch 
Revolt had been a dismal failure. Many anarchs considered the devastation of the 
lands they had loved, the destruction of their comrades and the lesson of the futility 
of rebellion to be the only things gained from their struggle. Not one word of the 
Lextalionis had been altered, and young Kindred had no more say in clan or sect 
affairs than before. Many questioned whether the centuries of struggle and all the 
Final Deaths of their comrades had been in vain. 
What these unhappy souls failed to realize was that although they had failed in 
their stated goal of reforming Kindred society, they had nonetheless succeeded at 
transforming themselves and those around them. The anarchs’ show of strength, 
while ultimately unsuccessful, had opened the eyes of Cainite elders to the true 
potency of their childer and taught these elders something to which many of them 
were unaccustomed: fear. Before the revolt, few elders questioned that their domi- 
nance over their childer was the natural way of Cainites. Now, some began to 
question the “better to be feared than loved” approach. Some elders grew more 
devious as a result, learning to subtly maneuver their childer toward affection for 
them rather than controlling them with an iron hand. Regardless, all elders were now 
painfully aware that should they cross the line between forcefulness and cruelty, their 
childer were fully capable of seeing that they paid for it in blood. 
For their part, the anarchs had learned several valuable lessons as well. The first 
was that any elder - 
indeed, even an Antediluvian - 
was no match for a large 
enough and strong enough group of vampires willing to sacrifice anything and 
everything to achieve its goal. For agroup of Kindred who had been taught - 
in some 
cases, had been practically brainwashed into believing - 
that their elders were 
beings of nearly godlike power and influence, this was a substantial revelation, and 
it meant that eternal servitude was no longer inevitable, whatever the Convention 
of Thorns might say. Hand in hand with this realization was the new knowledge that 
the myth of the relationship between elder and neonate was nothing more than that. 
Whether the Lextalionis was truly handed down from Caine or created by some elder 
in the past, its reach extended only to those who chose to subscribe to it. 
Almost two centuries before Enlightenment philosophes such as Locke and 
Rousseau proposed similar ideas, anarch philosophers had developed the concept of 
libertas - 
the free will with which all Kindred are endowed, regardless of age or 
generation. Kindred historians point to this as one of the few episodes in history 
where the Kindred anticipated mortal trends rather than following them. Anarchs 
taught their childer that libertas was important above all things, and most impor- 
tantly, that attempts to deprive a Kindred of libertas should be treated just as seriously 
as attempts to deprive him ofpossessions or ofunlife itself. Even (and especially) after 
they had forcibly rejoined the Camarilla, anarchs passed on the legacy of libertas and 
the vision of a society of equal Kindred to their childer and grandchilder, in the hope 
that it might still come to exist someday. 
The final and most tangible effect of the Anarch Revolt is one that most anarchs 
who know of it desperately wish they could forget - 
the creation of the two great 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
24 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sects, the Camarilla and the Sabbat. In the global scheme of things, the fact that the 
anarchs forced formerly xenophobic elders to cooperate with each other might be 
seen as a significant evolutionary step, but naturally, most anarchs are hard-pressed 
to see it that way. As if that weren’t bad enough, the few anarchs with the backbone 
to stand up for their convictions at the Convention of Thorns perverted those 
convictions to create the Sabbat, whose rigid structure and group blood bonding 
practices also run counter to everything true anarchs stood for. Enforced, artificial 
loyalty to a group rather than to an individual doesn’t make that loyalty any less 
artificial or mandatory. 
According to some modem Kindred students of history, later revolts of the 
anarchs against their elders might have been avoided if the elders had simply been 
willing to share a small amount of power with their childer. If the Camarilla had been 
less concerned with saving face and more concerned with creating a truly maintain- 
able peace, the terms of the Convention might have given the anarchs enough 
freedom and power that the Sabbat would not exist today. Instead, by returning the 
anarchs to the same situation against which they had originally rebelled, the elders 
ensured that the same resentment and discontent that fueled the Anarch .Revolt 
would remain to erupt later in unexpected ways. 
TIMF 
MARCHFS 
ONWARD 
THE FRENCH 
REVOLUTION 
For nearly three centuries, the Camarilla’s claim of domain in Europe lay 
unchallenged. Many anarchs traveled to the American colonies to escape their elders’ 
influence, and by and large the elders were glad to be rid of them. Most elders considered 
the colonies beneath their notice, and the anarchs traveling there doubly so, and were 
glad to once again claim dominion over Europe. Even if their confidence in their own 
infallibility had been badly shaken, at least they didn’t have to worry about slavering 
anarch bands breaking down their doors and murdering them in their havens. 
At least, not until 1789. However unconcerned the elders may have been about 
the colonies, the anarchs of Europe had been greatly affected by the American 
Revolution. In the political statements of the mortal political philosophers I’aine, 
Adams, Jefferson, and Franklin-as well as Locke, Rousseau, and the others who had 
inspired them - 
the anarchs found a great deal that resonated with their own 
political vision. When the mortals of France, stirred by events across the Atlantic, 
began to grumble about their treatment at the hands of King Louis XVI and his 
nobles, a number ofprominent anarchs secretly urged them on. Among the peasants 
who stormed the Bastille in July 1789 were a number of Kindred expressing their 
distaste for the traditional Toreador dominion of France and who saw the grc’wing 
revolution as their chance to strike back. They knew they had little chance of success 
alone, but with the mortals whose cause they shared, they were able to xrike 
decisively against the Toreador power base in France. Unlike the elders’ often cruel 
and self-serving use of mortals to further their own ends, the anarchs joined wit11 the 
French revolutionaries out of a real sense of kinship and identification with their 
CHAPERONE: 
HISTORY 
IN ASHE 
25 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


goals. Whatever their faults, the anarchs saw the French peasants as people, rather 
than simply as pawns or food. 
Ecstatic at the success of the revolution, the anarchs quickly began making plans 
to spread it to other countries. Their mortal allies proved less than faithful, however. 
The National Convention, which had been founded to rule France after the 
execution of Louis, dissolved into wrangling committees, which gave the Toreador 
and Ventrue elders a chance to shift the balance of power once again. They plotted 
the overthrow of the convention through their own agents and allies, installing a 
French general named Bonaparte as the head of the government in 1799. Eventually 
naming himself Emperor of France, Bonaparte quickly extinguished the egalitarian 
reforms of the revolution, and the Toreador regained their place as the dominant 
Kindred in France soon thereafter. Despite this defeat, however, the revolution once 
again showed the Camarilla that even after long periods of apparent dormancy, the 
anarchs would always stand ready to fight for the cause of freedom. Still, more than 
150 years would pass before a similar outbreak occurred again. 
THF VICTORIAN 
AGE 
The late 18‘h and early 19‘h centuries saw the growth of a literary movement 
known as Romanticism, which emphasized mystery, the supernatural, and strong 
emotions such as love, hatred and horror over the strict rationalist teachings of the 
previous century. Along with this came a new idealism, expressed in the develop- 
ment of several types of socialism - 
both the revolutionary form, exemplified by the 
writings of Karl Marx, and the less radical utopian branch, which advocated the 
creation of small, self-sufficient socialist communities. In the year 1848, a number of 
revolutions broke out across Europe; although most of these uprisings eventually 
ended in failure, some revolts continued, eventually leading to the creation ofunified 
German and Italian states. Although some anarchs were no doubt involved with 
both, the true ray of hope for the anarchs in this century came at its end with the 
blossoming of the Victorian Age. 
It was also a time in which civility and decorum reigned supreme; a gentleman’s 
name was everything to him, and some princes who wished to seem benevolent even 
appointed anarch liaisons “for the good of all Kindred.” Anarchs found themselves able 
to discuss their beliefs in the salons and balls of polite Kindred society, so long as they 
behaved themselves, and some Kindred came to see the light of reform. Elected princes, 
once unheard-of, became an occasional occurrence thanks to the prevalence of anarch 
ideas, and some princes (elected and otherwise) even relaxed the Traditions. Some 
allowed all members of the domain to Embrace once a year without obtaining explicit 
permission, while others instituted personal Domains for all prominent Kindred or 
relaxed the Tradition of Hospitality to apply only to Elysium. 
Indeed, it seemed for a short while that the dream of the anarchs might become 
a reality, and members active during the era still speak of it as a time of promise, when 
anything might have come to pass. But however great the strides made then might 
have seemed, the Camarilla was still run by Kindred, with a Beast lurking deep in 
their hearts. Those few notable reforms of the Victorian Age to survive the alarm and 
+- 
I 
THE ANARCH blDE 
26 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


reactionary backlash that accompanied the publication of Bram Stoker’s D’racula 
died aquickdeath with the coming of the Great War. Anarch resentment at this new 
failure grew, and many decided (like those before them) to try creating their utopian 
state in the New World. It would take over half a century to begin the groundwork 
for another period of upheaval. 
A DRFAM 
DFFFRRFD 
THE ANARCH 
FREE 
5TATF 
With the restoration of Toreador dominance in France, many anarchs left for 
America, which was still relatively free of Camarilla influence at this point; following 
the end of the Victorianera, more anarchs did the same. Many of the Camarilla elders 
considered America a trackless wasteland, and in keeping with old tradition some 
even considered it a useful “dumping ground” for disgruntled Cainites. The Sabbat 
had a presence in America, but internal dissension had interfered with its efforts to 
gain a foothold in the New World. 
Despite this power vacuum, however, the anarchs failed to create any large-scale 
domains for themselves in the Americas. Some Camarilla Kindred have used this to 
justify their opinion that the anarchs are ineffectual without the Camarilla to react 
to. In response, anarch scholars are quick to point out that most of the anarchj who 
arrived in America were on the run from the princes and archons of the Camarilla, 
had no idea whom they could trust, and certainly had no central organization to 
consult for help. On the whole, they were only interested in finding a quiet hunting 
ground and lying low. 
Of course, the Camarilla eventually came to America, and in typical fashion, it 
quickly and systematically claimed domains across the East Coast. The confrontations 
that resulted between the resident anarchs of a city and the better-organized Camarilla 
members rarely came to violence. Rather, as a city became more important and better 
populated, the anarchs dwelling there would suddenly find their former hunting 
grounds occupied by a prince and his court. The usurpers would politely point out that 
this was now a Camarilla city and perhaps the anarch would find better hunting to the 
west. Though slow, this process of displacement was constant and unavoidable. By 
1900, a number of anarchs found themselves on the West Coast, particularly in San 
Francisco and the small town that would become known as Los Angeles. 
In 1900, Los Angeles was already beginning to experience the almost miraculous 
growth that would turn it from a tiny town of about 10,000 into one of the largest cities 
in the world within less than a century. The Camarilla recognized that it needed to 
create a presence in this potentially important city, and in 1924, its council rn,ad.de a 
former Spanish alcalde named Don Sebastian Juan Dominguez prince of the City of 
Angels on the condition that he would “do something about the anarch problem.” 
Unfortunately for those who chose him, they had badly misjudged the new 
prince of Los Angeles. Don Sebastian was a vain, indolent creature whose idea of 
society was to surround himself with effete Toreadors like himself and let everyone 
else do mainly as they pleased. This suited the anarchs very well, since they finally 
CHAPTER ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHE 
21 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


had a city where the prince didn’t seem to care what they did, as long as they stayed 
out of his way. Anarchs from around the country made the exodus to Los Angeles and 
the other small cities that surrounded it. 
One of the anarchs who moved into the Los Angeles area was a Brujah named 
Jeremy MacNeil. MacNeil had been Embraced in 1657, long after the Anarch Revolt, 
but his sire, James, was part of Tyler’s initial peasant revolt in 1381, and fought on the 
anarch side in Spain and Italy. He taught Jeremy to love freedom and fight oppression, 
and Jeremy had struggled against the British overlords in Scotland, Ireland and 
America. The princes of every city in the United States soon came to know and revile 
his name, and so he eventually ended up drifting into Los Angeles in 1943. 
Once there, MacNeil found a powder keg ready to explode. More and more anarchs 
were moving into the area, which now boasted such anarch luminaries as Salvador 
Garcia, Marguerite Foccart and the notorious Smiling Jack. The rest of the Los Angeles 
Kindred were increasingly disgusted by Don Sebastian’s capricious princedom, which had 
a habit of swaying unpredictably from complete hisser faire to utter repression. The 
anarchs found this situation all too familiar. Very few of them had witnessed the Anarch 
Revolt, but most knew that the anarchs of old had rebelled against their elders and almost 
managed to create a society where a Kindred would be valued not for his generation or 
clan but for his individual worth. They also knew that the past anarch leaders had 
betrayed the dream and that the Camarilla Kindred ultimately kept power for themselves. 
Here in California, the young anarchs reasoned, they finally had the opportunity to create 
the utopia about which the first anarchs had dreamed. By living together in harmony 
without a prince or primogen, they would show anarchs everywhere that the time had 
come for agloriousrevolutionagainst allwhowouldrob themoftheir liberty andfreewill. 
By 1944, the rumblings ofdiscontent among the local Kindred had reached even 
Don Sebastian’s ears, and he knew just how to deal with the problem. He ordered 
Jeremy MacNeil detained and savagely beaten, figuring that this act would kill any 
desire to rise up on the part of these foolish revolutionaries. Salvador and many of the 
other anarchs wanted to use the incident as the rallying point for a new revolt, but 
MacNeil counseled patience and preparation. So the anarchs studied the prince and 
primogen for six weeks, locating their havens and learning about their defenses. 
Finally, on December 21, 1944, the Second Anarch Revolt began. Just before 
dawn, parties of heavily armed anarchs attacked many of the city’s elders in their 
havens. While not all of the attacks resulted in victories, an appreciable majority did, 
and those Kindred who managed to escape mostly fled the city as quickly as possible. 
Don Sebastian himself was slain by Salvador Garcia in a vicious combat that ended 
with Don Sebastian’s rancho burning to the ground. 
After their initial successes in Los Angeles, the anarchs moved south and 
‘‘liberated)) San Diego, then moved north in the hopes of doing the same in San 
Francisco. There, however, they were unsuccessful, as then-prince Vannevar Tho- 
mas mounted a strong defense and turned them away. Nonetheless, the anarchs had 
achieved quite a bit in three months. The Anarch Free State, as the coalition called 
itself, stretched from the Mexican border to San Jose, and there were no princes, no 
primogens . . . no “governing” body (in the Camarilla’s sense of the word) at all within 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
28 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the region. The Revolutionary Council, which had been formed to coordinate the 
military efforts of the anarchs, decided to adopt a set of principles of self-governance 
for the Free State before dissolving itself. It created what it called the “!Status 
Perfectus,” or the “Perfect State.” 
Although clearly based on earlier anarch philosophies, the Status Perfectus was 
a revolutionary document, the first to state the anarch dream clearly and unequivo- 
cally in modern times. It called on anarchs everywhere to care for one another 
regardless of clan affiliation and to help each other break free from the shackles of the 
Lextalionis. It promised a nation free of political oppression and elder prejudice and 
swore to extend that freedom to all Kindred everywhere. 
The immediate aftermath of the Second Anarch Revolt surprised all of the 
Kindred, especially the anarchs. Rather than joining together in a glorious fellow- 
ship, the Kindred of the Free State almost immediately formed themselves into 
cross-clan coteries and gangs that staked out a geographical area (which they referred 
to as a barony) and forbade anyone else to hunt there. It was almost as if, in the 
absence of a Camarilla to create and uphold princes and domains, the anarchs had 
to re-create the same structure themselves. 
This was a terrible philosophical blow to the anarch scholars who came to study 
the Anarch Free State in the hopes that it would be the modem re-creation of their 
beloved ideal. What they found instead were packs of Kindred who were frequendy - 
and often literally- at each other’s throats. Scholars argued over whether this inability 
to create a grander society was a result of the Beast that lies snarling within the breast 
ofevery Kindred, or whether it was merely a transitional stage through which the Status 
Perfectus had to go on its way toward a more unified egalitarian society. 
Unfortunately, the anarchs never had the chance to find out. The Free State was 
remarkably resilient, surviving a direct attack by the Sabbat in 1965 and an enormous 
civil war between a Kindred and a mortal gang in 1992, but ultimately proved too 
precarious to hold during a Cathayan invasion in 1998. What eventually brouglnt an 
end to the Anarch Free State was a combination of external plotting and intmemal 
dissension. The Quincunx of the Cathayans, forced to conclude that it was not 
economically feasible to take the Free State by force, began a divide-and-conquer 
strategy. The invaders offered Salvador Garcia, who led the Hermandad gang, 
assistance in his ongoing battle with the Crypt’s Sons, run by Mohammed al-Muthlim. 
Although no one fully understands why a canny old guerrilla fighter like Salvador 
would accept help from a group that had only recently attacked his beloved Anarch 
Free State, he did, and that was the beginning of the end for the anarch realm. 
Within a few months, high-profile anarchs from across the domain were 
accepting positions with the Cathayan forces. The Quincunx cleverly sold them- 
selves to the weary anarchs as peace-bringers and preservers of the egalitarian dream. 
Under the “New Promise Mandarinate,” those who were qualified would rise to 
positions of power, and the strongest would no longer prosper at the expense of the 
weak. To the anarchs, weakened from decades of internal warfare, the prospect was 
ultimately too appealing to resist. By the beginning of 2000, virtually all of Los 
Angeles was the domain of the New Promise Mandarinate. 
+- 
I 
CHAPTER ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHIS 
29 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THF FND 
OFTHF MOVFMFNT? 
Kindred chroniclers with little more than basic understanding of the anarchs have 
referred to the dissolution of the Free State as “the end of the anarchs as an organized 
political movement.” More learned Kindred have pointed out that some foolish 
vampires made similar comments after the First Anarch Revolt and the French 
Revolution, only to be disproved in the future. In fact, the strength of the anarchs has 
often been their relative lackoforganization; no matter how many anarchs aredefeated 
or killed, more always appear from some dark corner or concealed hideout. In the wake 
of the end of the Anarch Free State, anarchs have fanned out across the United States, 
some even returning to Europe to spread their message. In some ways, the new Anarch 
Movement is even more dangerous than the Free State, since discontented Kindred 
have nowhere to go now when they’ve had enough of unlife under the Camarilla. They 
must either submit or fight on, and the anarchs know that a number of these desperately 
unhappy Kindred will choose the latter. 
Despite these new rumblings of discontent, which are now appearing through- 
out most Camarilla (and some Sabbat) cities, most elders have stopped worrying 
about the anarchs. This indifference is symptomatic of the same flawed and largely 
wishful thinking that has plagued the elders since 1381, and likely since time 
immemorial - 
regarding a threat as entirely gone when it disappears temporarily. 
The anarchs are more than a simple group of like-minded Kindred with a common 
goal; they share a dedication to freedom and the idea of libertas that will be difficult, 
if not impossible, ever to eliminate completely. 
Despite the ultimate failure of the Anarch Free State as a model for the anarchs’ 
ideal society, Kindred historians and social scientists still often use the Movement 
itself as a basis for various theories. Many point to its continued existence as proof 
of the power of conviction and belief to unite people, even the undead, through the 
years. Often, it also serves as an example of how such conviction can help maintain 
and strengthen the humnitas of those who pursue it, as strivingfor a very human goal 
like freedom helps other human virtues to fall in line as well. For all the hardships 
they have suffered through the long centuries, the anarchs remain the most humane 
single group of Kindred in the modem world, and their ideals continue to shake the 
halls of the Camarilla and give pause to the packs of the Sabbat. Though battered and 
at times nearly broken, the anarchs still carry on; for each one that falls, another sees 
the light of freedom and takes up the cause, and from their lips comes the cry: 
There shall be no rest without freedom! 
THL ANARCH &DE 
30 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
ONE: HISTORY 
IN ASHD 
31 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Itisbetter todieon yourfeet thnliveon yourknees. 
- 
Emiliano Zapata 
CHARACTFR 
CRFATION 
AND TRAITS 
Each persona in Mind's Eye Theatre is an individual with his or her own tal.ents, 
skills, vampiric Disciplines, friends and foes. Each character is different but the 
mechanics of the character creation process are the same for all anarch characters. 
Bear in mind that these non-sectarian vampires often have to get by with whatever 
resources and talents they can scrounge, forming gangs based on complementary 
skills to compensate for their individual weaknesses and make better use of their 
individual strengths. 
See Laws of the Night for full descriptions of Archetypes, Paths, Attriklutes, 
Abilities and Generation-dependent Trait limits. 
ANARCHSAT 
STFP 
ONE 
The basic concept of an anarch can be relatively simple or remarkably complex 
to come up with, depending on how much effort you're willing to spend on it. If you 
think of a literary scholar who appreciates Marx, a teacher of political science (night 
courses only) can be the concept born from that. If you think instantly of a gang- 
banger, that gang-banger was a person once - 
ask yourself why he or she joined that 
crew. Likewise, your character may be a hardcore Communist or a proponent of true 
one-man-one vote democracy that is slighted by the representational and feudal 
CHAPTER 
Two TAKING UP THE FIGHI 
33 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE ANARCH 
G~IDE 
34 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
TWO: TANK UP THE FIGHI 
35 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


system of the major sects, or an avowed atheist who takes issue with the Sabbat’s 
quasi-religious mumbo-jumbo. The Camarilla takes pains to make sure that Kindred 
know all men (and women) are not created equal - 
the egalitarian ideals of the 
anarchs are not the ideals of the Camarilla, and may have caused problems that forced 
the individual to leave the sect. The struggle against the near-mythical Antediluvians, 
quasi-religious structure, and the inhumanity of the Sabbat may have been a tum- 
off for a freethinking individual Embraced into that sect. Or perhaps the character’s 
motive for joining is more personal, a desire to be free from a domineering sire or to 
escape certain death at the hand of one sect. 
In short, causes to rebel against the system are endless -what 
matters is what 
the character considers important enough to make her throw away the relative 
security and camaraderie offered by the sects and cast her lot with a relentlessly 
persecuted group. For every intelligent, politically adept revolutionary, there is a 
mindless thug who’s quick with his fists. Concepts vary immensely; there’s simply no 
such thing as a “proper)) anarch concept. There are only smart and foolish vampires, 
those who survive and those who end up ashes in the wind. The Anarch Movement 
attracts Kindred from all walks of life and unlife, and while they may argue and fight 
among themselves at times, there is room for all under the broad umbrella of 
revolutionary ideas of freedom and self-determination. One on one and as a group, 
anarchs above all are individuals. 
PERSONALITY 
ARCHFTYPFS 
SomeNatures and Demeanors are more common among Anarchs, just as certain 
Natures and Demeanors are more common in the Sabbat and the Camarilla. Some 
personality types have a special affinity for the sociopolitical causes of this group of 
vampires. Architects, Autocrats, Competitors, Judges, Pedagogues, Idealists and 
Visionaries are often drawn like moths to the flame of the Anarch Movement. 
Decades, if not centuries, of struggle against the Camarilla’s stasis and geriocracy and 
choking under the collars of the elders’ leashes may attract Curmudgeons, Deviants, 
Rebels and Rogues to the rank and file of rebellious Kindred. Bravos, Connivers, 
Perfectionists, Soldiers and Tricksters also make fine radicals because of the ways in 
which they are motivated and their dedication to acting on their beliefs. Conformists 
and Traditionalists may not seem like natural anarchs, but if they conform to the 
Movement’s ideals, they can make surprisingly reliable and staunch members. 
CLAN 
Certain Clans compose the majority of vampires in the Anarch Movement. Of 
all the major clans, Brujah, Malkavians, Nosferatu, Toreador and Ventrue comprise 
the bulk of the Anarch Movement, though they are certainly not the only ones who 
do not wish to go Autarkis or join the two major sects. 
T H F ~ R O U D  
The Brujah make up the majority of the social gadflies and critics, and the 
passion they bring to the cause is undeniable. Brujah fight like no other clan when 
they struggle against a common enemy; their physical power makes them some of the 
THE ANARCH GIDE 
36 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Movement’s strongest front line fighters when violence becomes the only option. 
Despite what the sects believe, however, only rare Brujah rise very high in the ranks 
of the anarchs - 
while their intense passions and supernatural charisma make them 
excellent gang leaders and rabble rousers, their natural impulsivity and inability to 
control their tempers tend to make them poor leaders in the long term. Only those 
who have tempered their rage with experience can hope to hold on to any po5ition 
of real authority for long, and even they must endure the inevitable criesof “sell-out!” 
from their younger clan members. On the surface, anarch Brujah are not much 
different than their Camarilla and untitribu brothers - 
they fight a great deal among 
themselves and cannot seem to agree on much except that change is needed. 
Contrary to the expectations of many of their fellows, however, the famous Brujah 
clan loyalty is seldom much in evidence when anarch Brujah meet with their 
sectarian fellows. While some of the more enlightened members of both sides are 
content to confine themselves to heated philosophical and rhetorical debates, most 
meetings between the two sides end in brutal violence. Indeed, most anarch Bivjah 
have nothing but contempt for the “patsies” and “zealots” of the sects, seeing them 
as having betrayed their clan’s legacy of advocating change and social evolution in 
favor of petty perks or senseless bloodshed. 
Malkavian anarchs are either stragglers or those whose voices in their heads told 
them to stop being doormats and try to change the world. Malkavians bring a kind 
of inspired lunacy to the activities of the Anarch Cause, formulating masterful 
strokes of sheer chaos that defy prediction and leave onlookers forever changed by 
the experience. They are seen as visionaries and greatly valued when lucid, but their 
inherent instability makes other anarchs view them with caution. Frequently, they 
serve as firebrands and recruiters, eager to show the sects the folly of their hidebound 
ways and offer others the freedom the anarch unlife provides. They are also excellent 
at what is quaintly called “Discordian effect” tactics - 
causing chaos in ord’er to 
confuse the enemy, sow dissension and otherwise distract from the true goals of the 
anarchs. However, they are far from the whimsical pranksters sometimes depicted by 
popular accounts; they are generally consummate guerrilla warriors, carefully choos- 
ing each incident of apparently random chaos in order to generate the most possible 
madness and confusion. In addition, they remain connected to their clan through 
their collective madness and as a result are good sources of information on the 
movements of their fellows in either sect. Anarch leaders who know of this 
connection are often equally careful not to reveal too much of their own plans to the 
Lunatics for fear of such information being transmitted this way as well. 
The Sewer Rats of the cities find themselves sought after for membership in the 
fight for resources and equal rights - 
not only for their vast information network, 
but for their ability to keep fighting even after suffering devastating setbacks. For 
their part, these individuals find attractive the ideals of equality and position based 
on merit espoused by the Anarch Movement, as the Nosferatu tend to be passed over 
for important duties because of their foul countenances and strange manners. Such 
Nosferatu come to view the loose collective of independent vampires as a way to 
make their mark and survive the coming violence; to this end, they collect the secrets 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKING 
UP THE FIGHT 
37 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of their Sabbat and Camarilla clanmates while using that knowledge to push their 
own political agenda forward. They are also powerful and cunning soldiers in times 
of conflict, masters of savage hit-and-fade attacks that leave their enemies broken 
and bleeding without a clear idea of what hit them. 
Toreador also can be found in the anarchs, but contrary to popular opinion of 
this fickle clan, those in the rank and file have not traded sect security for the struggle 
of social change on a whim. An anarch Toreador has weighed and considered his sect 
affiliation carefully or was Embraced into “the status-quo-has-got-to-go” worldview 
by a more revolutionary sire. Many have gone from posh gallery openings and 
contracts with major publishing companies to nightly selling their art from streetside 
stands, doing beautiful graffiti murals, creating so-called “outsider art” or writing 
explosive pieces in cleverly circulated underground literary j ournals. Other Toreador 
still haunt the halls of high society as they once did in the role of emissaries and 
diplomats, negotiating with the sects and otherwise providing a positive public face 
for the Movement. Only a foolish anarch assumes that just because one of the Artistes 
has joined the cause, she must have pulled light duty to do it. The dangers of facing 
down elders in their own Elysium and trying to convince such reactionary creatures 
of the validity of the Cause are just as great as - 
if not greater than- 
the hazards of 
throwing bombs at the walls of the Ivory Tower. 
No vampire has sacrificed so much by giving up her clan’s sect affiliation as a 
Ventrue who decides to leave behind the established structure of the sects and strike 
out on her own. However, it is more common to find a Ventrue in the Movement 
than one might expect. The clan makes a policy of Embracing the best and brightest, 
people used to getting their own way; forcing these individuals into subservient 
conformity with the desires of a larger sect is bound to generate a lot of friction. 
Likewise, some more innovative or daring members simply see more room for 
opportunity outside the sect than in it, and are willing to join “the competition” in 
return for their assistance in building the world of their desires. While they must put 
up with no small amount of suspicion and derision for their supposedly “proper” 
habits, Ventrue who prove themselves loyal to the Cause make up some of its 
staunchest supporters. 
THF FFW 
Gangrel who have an interest in politics or libertas are also found among the 
anarchs. They bring their ferocity and fearlessness to the struggle and are wonderful 
guides through the wilderness between urban centers. Even those uninterested in the 
anarch cause will sometimes hire themselves out to perform such services for anyone 
willing to pay their price. However, many young anarchs share the common 
misconception that just because the Gangrel have turned their back on the 
Camarilla, that means they are interested in joining the Movement. Members are 
advised to approach the Outlanders with caution, as even the most sympathetic of 
them are quite territorial and don’t take kindly to pushy outsiders seeking to involve 
them in the same political struggles they so recently abandoned. Still, if approached 
correctly, many Gangrel make excellent recruits, or at least allies in the fight. 
THE ANARCH CUIDL 
38 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


No few surviving Ravnos have also sought out the Movement for the security of 
the anonymity it offers them. However, given their previous reputation and the 
recent tide of savagery that washed over this elusive and elliptical clan, most of their 
fellow anarchs give them a wide berth until the Ravnos inquestion proves her loyalty 
and dedication several times over. No strangers to being played by others in the past, 
as a whole the anarchs are wary of being used as another card in the monte game the 
Ravnos are playing - 
or as a speed bump in the path of this clan’s many enemies. So 
while Ravnos can certainly find their own role to play in the Movement, it generally 
takes a long time before their fellow anarchs truly trust them, and if lost that trust can 
prove very difficult to regain. 
By contrast, the least common clans that still make up an appreciable percentage 
of the Movement are the Assamites, the Lasombra and the Tremere. Recruits; from 
those three clans are typically neonates who have failed to fit in with their (clan’s 
power structure (or even just failed an important assignment and are running from 
the consequences). Assamite anarchs are largely non-Middle Eastern in ethnic 
origin who have trouble understanding the clan’s complex history and hierarchy, or 
sometimes have met with internal prejudice from the circumstances of their Embrace 
and have become frustrated at their lack of advancement. Lasombra anarch are 
frequently young ex-Sabbat seeking an alternative to that sect’s extremism, or 
individuals who could never buy as gospel truth the religious and philosophical ideas 
spouted by the sect. 
Last and by far the least are the Tremere anarchs. Most are either second- 
generation anarchs, furtively Embraced outside the clan’s auspices, or actively 
wanted by their former Camarilla-loyal peers for one crime or another. They keep 
extremely low profiles, trying not to attract attention while still pursuing their 
sorcerous studies to the best of their limited capabilities. A rogue Tremere’s unhfe is 
usually a dangerous and lonely existence, as even among the anarchs the Warl.ocks 
are treated with grudging respect at best and open animosity at worst. An.arch 
Tremere are rarely strong in Thaumaturgy, as the clan zealously hunts clown 
particularly skilled defectors for fear they will betray clan secrets to outsiders; ‘most 
are apprentices who broke free early in their training, before the clan considered 
them much of a threat. Even they know that the eye of the Pyramid is ever-watchful, 
however, and seldom relax their guard for long no matter where they are. 
The Caitiff are used by the Sabbat and treated with caution or derision by the 
Camarilla. They do not fall into the cracks, but rally together in the modem Anarch 
Movement to right the perceived wrongs of vampiric society or seek revenge for and 
bring an end to the abuses perpetrated upon them for having a questionable pedigree 
and youth. The Clanless compose a large number of anarch vampires, nearly as many 
as the Brujah, and often take up the cause for similar reasons. Caitiffs bring first-hand 
experience of why things need to be reformed and come from all walks of life and 
unlife. They have their own reasons for pursuing this goal in their unlives and 
contribute in myriad ways to the fight against the Camarilla’s geriocracy and the 
Sabbat’s monstrousness. 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKN 
UP THE fim 
39 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


RAREST 
OF ALL 
Some clans are so uncommon as to be nearly nonexistent, even in such a 
disparate group as the anarchs. Followers of Set are rare and even more rarely 
welcome, as they are usually pretending to be something other than what they are, 
and tales of Setites infiltrating the Movement for their own opportunistic and 
devious purposes abound anywhere anarchs gather. Even those who prove them- 
selves useful to the Cause are seldom trusted enough to become a part of it, and made 
into grudging contacts at best. Sometime following the Convention of Thorns, even 
a Tzimisce or a Giovanni may have supported the Anarch Cause, but they remain 
little more than an urban legend in the modernnights, something everyone has heard 
about but no one has ever seen. Whether this apparent absence stems from an 
internal mandate by these highly insular and secretive clans or simply reflects their 
natural distrust for what the Movement represents is unknown, but regardless there 
are no known members of these clans currently active among the anarchs. 
There are also those not of any clan who refuse to cower to the elders or hunt 
them down to extinction. Throughout history many bloodlines of Caine have arisen, 
including the Salubri, Samedi, Kiasyd, Daughters of Cacophony, Gargoyles and so 
on. To date, however, membership in the anarchs seems to be a highly personal 
choice for members of these eccentric sanguinary families; the decision of one 
member to support the Movement seems to reflect not at all on the rest of the 
bloodline. With a few exceptions (such as the persecuted Salubri and Gargoyles), 
nothing really bars a member of one of these bloodlines from joining the Anarch 
Cause, but neither do they form any significant portion of the anarch population. 
STFP 
Two: ATTRIRUTF~ 
Attributes reflect a character’s natural capability. Each character has certain 
characteristics that show her intrinsic qualities and aptitudes. The character concept 
guides the selection of Attributes. A bookworm is likely to have developed more 
Mental Traits than Physical Traits, while a stuntman is inclined to be physically at 
the top of his game. When you choose your character’s Attributes, choose the priority 
of each one as well. At first, all characters are stronger in some areas than others, and 
clan and concept also shape these Attributes. Some clans are more likely to Embrace 
the physically impressive, while others tend to recruit and Embrace social butterflies 
or scholars. If your character is a blackmailing emissary, Social Traits are more useful 
than being a Olympic power lifter, as you’ll need brains far more than brawn to plot 
and scheme. If your character is a Brujah iconoclast who uses brute force to knock 
down the Ivory Tower of the Camarilla, Physical Traits are likely primary, as one 
doesn’t need a Ph.D. in aerospace engineering to kick hard and pummel. 
Buying more Traits must be reflected in the course of game. This is especially 
important to anarch characters, who often have limited free time to spend on non- 
essential pursuits, not to mention fewer places to hone such skills away from the watchful 
eye of the sects. You cannot simply buy more Mental Traits if you do not work at 
improving your reaction time, learning to watch your back or studying hard. Thus, a 
character of average intelligence may attend night classes to justify the purchase of 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
40 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


additional Mental Traits; by the same token, a proud and standoffish Tremere may 
blossom into a social animal once he realizes that a few well-placed words can sometimes 
be more effective than a dozen rituals. As he works to develop better social skills, the 
player can purchase Social Traits to reflect that change in the character’s personality. 
STEP 
THRFF: 
ADVANTAGF~ 
ARILITIF~ 
Your character’s Abilities are the things he knows or at which he is skilled. 
Abilities can come from one’s mortal experiences or may have been learned after the 
character’s Embrace (this is especially important for neonates, who likely retain more 
of the skills they used in life than a centuries-old elder). The most successful anarch 
groups are those whose combined skills allow them to deal effectively with a wide range 
of challenges and threats. Some gangs take this idea even further, picking one or two 
areas for each member to specialize in as well as choosing a “general curriculum” with 
which they expect all their members to be familiar. They band together because 
individually they cannot stand up to the Camarilla or the Sabbat, but when their talents 
are combined they have a much better chance. As per Laws of the Night, you can take 
additional levels of an Ability to show higher proficiency in that field. 
DISCIPLINES 
You begin play with three or four Basic Disciplines (depending on your previous 
sect affiliation, if any). You cannot take Disciplines beyond the Basic level at this 
time. If you are Caitiff, you can choose your Basic powers from any Discipline, but 
the Storyteller can choose to limit you to the eight most common Disciplines - 
Animalism, Auspex, Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude, Obfuscate, Potence or Presence - 
unless your character’s history makes a great case for having a more specialized 
Discipline like Protean or Chimerstry. 
As a rule of thumb, during character creation and beyond Storytellers should be 
slightly more lenient when permitting players to purchase out-of-clan Disciplines for 
their anarch characters. This is not - 
repeat not - 
an excuse for players to min-max 
their Disciplines into power combinations just for the sake of having “kewl powerz”, 
but rather a representation of the fact that anarchs are generally much more wi lling 
to teach their own Disciplines to members outside of their own clans than are their 
sect counterparts. Indeed, anarchs often use Disciplines as equalizers to compensate 
for their lack of mundane resources or standing in Kindred society, and few anarchs 
care about revealing hoary old “ancient clan secrets” if teaching a friend a specialized 
Discipline means the difference between victory and defeat. 
Of course, an anarch‘s parent clan may have a different opinion on the matter 
- 
trying to convince an enraged Tzimisce or Ravnos elder that you thought it would 
be cool to teach your fellow gang members the secrets of the clan’s unique Discipline 
seldom works out very well. Storytellers should feel free to ensure that players who 
become known for teaching normally restricted Disciplines to those outside their 
clans face the appropriate consequences of that behavior. Just because you have a 
Discipline doesn’t mean you use it in a vacuum, after all. 
+- 
I 
CHAPTER 
TWO: TAKING UP THL FIGW 
41 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BACKGROUNDS 
Choose five Backgrounds for your new character. The vampiric struggle an 
anarch experiences focuses on the connections and assets that Backgrounds repre- 
sent, but in many cases such assets are firmly in the control of the sects, necessitating 
some conflict or manipulation to acquire (not to mention keep). As such, Back- 
grounds require special consideration at character creation. 
Common Ties 
Allies, Contacts and Retainers are the most common Backgrounds for anarchs, and 
they generally need not compete with the Kindred of the Camarilla or the Cainites of 
the Sabbat for them. These Backgrounds are most often earned through the vampire’s 
social prowess, hard work, street savvy or just plain charisma as opposed to things like 
vampiric lineage or social standing. Nevertheless, these are valuable tools in the 
Anarch Cause, and as long as one can provide for their specialized needs in return the 
anarch can count on invaluable and often unexpected sources of aid when battling 
enemies or staking out new territory. What’s more, since most mortals who fill the roles 
of allies and contacts are not aware of vampiric existence, sect is not an issue. In fact, 
an anarch may even have some of the same contacts and allies as a Camarilla vampire, 
though such double-dealing carries commensurate risks should the anarch‘s connec- 
tion be exposed. However, a shared contact or rival can be a source of intelligence on 
the enemy and that information can be used to challenge an opponent’s plans. An 
anarch who manages to successfully turn or “poach” a particularly valued agent of one 
of the sects can earn great respect in the eyes of his peers. 
Uncommon Ties 
Backgrounds that represent vampiric assets are the greatest cause of conflict in 
Kindred society. Herd, Generation, Influence and Resources are at the heart of the 
anarch struggle. Most young Kindred don’t have much access to these Backgrounds, 
or have only one or two levels at most, and it is a struggle to hold on to even these 
when the sects keep them so closely guarded. The elders keep a stranglehold on 
Influence and like their coffers thickly lined with Resources, and don’t take kindly to 
brash upstarts trying to take either one away from them. For their part, few anarchs 
have the time and money required to keep a large herd under control, although many 
have a couple of fellow outcasts and other hangers-on whom they can look to for 
ready vitae. Even Generation can be a liability among those who battle the domina- 
tion of the young - 
many younger anarchs find it hard to trust an elder, or even one 
of low generation more recently Embraced. Most of the vampires not under the 
elders’ thumbs are neonates and will mistrust anyone who shows the power and force 
of will of an elder, especially if the Kindred in question is new to the Cause. 
With regard to Influence and Resources, many anarchs find their efforts to increase 
their assets beyond the most humble means viciously blocked by the sects, which in 
turn prompted many to join the anarchs to beginwith. Ifyour character has assets, make 
sure you explain how she got them, and more importantly how she holds onto them in 
the face of adversity. Does your anarch Ventrue run a small company that might be 
targeted for a hostile takeover if he gets too wealthy and powerful in the business world 
for the tastes of the local primogen? Does your character have a job at the local 
t
I 
THE ANARCH 
&IDL 
42 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


university as an associate professor that gives her some pull at that institution? 
Remember also that just because anarchs tend to have a more grueling night-to-night 
existence, that doesn’t necessarily mean that such “gutter authority” as represented by 
Smeet or Underpuorld Influence is automatically theirs for the taking. Many Camarilla 
princes and Sabbat archbishops keep a close eye on those sectors of the population for 
just such reasons, and employ loyal members of their own sects to watch over these areas 
-who won’t takekindly to anarch interferenceeither. It canbe tempting to think that 
just because they’re generally down-and-out and operate in some circles outside of 
respectable sect activity, that anarchs can automatically become “outlaw princes” by 
snatching up power in these areas of activity, but such is seldom the case. 
Thus, anarchs hold tightly to their Backgrounds and cultivate more whenever 
they can. What is gained can easily be lost as Kindred compete for a limited number 
of resources available in the community. Backgrounds can be lost as those of another 
sect poach business partners and helpful secretaries from you. Did your Nosferatu 
have his laptop stolen and his files deleted on his desktop because he was selling the 
information to the enemies of the prince? With one simple theft and a press of the 
keys, there goes his income this month. Anarchs are well aware that there is always 
someone more powerful and more charming than they are, and as a result become 
protective of their connections. They keep a watchful eye on their Backgrounds 
rather than allow an elder Lick to gain those valuable links. 
STFP 
FOUR: 
LAST TOUCHF~ 
Once you’ve chosen concept, clan, Attributes and advantages, it’s time to put 
the final touches to your character, including Blood Traits, Willpower Ttaits, 
Morality Traits, Virtue Traits, Merits and Flaws. 
BLOOD 
AND WILLPOWER 
TRAITS 
Use the Generation chart in Laws of the Night, p. 95, to assign the Traits 
appropriate for your anarch. Remember that Willpower Traits represent a character’s 
true inner strength and resolve, and so many anarchs often have high Willpower 
because they need that deep well of resolve to keep pushing on when all the odds are 
against them. Additional Willpower Traits are not a bad way to spend your Free 
Traits- it is not easy being a revolutionary, but if a character has higher Willpower, 
she is somewhat more equipped to handle the challenges and risks she has to take to 
fight the good fight. Additionally, even neonates among the anarchs must learn 
quickly to develop self-control and to repress their Beasts in their nightly wanderings 
or face destruction, a process they often undergo with less instruction and support 
than their sect-aligned peers. Exactly how such improvements in self-discipline 
come about varies according to the anarch in question - 
meditation, mental 
exercise, physical endurance and other things that test a character’s resolve are all 
valid means of raising it. 
MORALITY 
AND VIRTUE 
TRAITS 
Assign these Traits as per Laws of the Night. It bears mentioning that anarchs are 
still considered nominal members of the Camarilla under the Convention of Thcrns, 
CHA~ER 
Two TAKING UP THE hctn 
43 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


even if they reject that sect’s structure and rigidity, and like their erstwhile Camarilla 
cousins the vast majority of anarchs hold to the tenets of Humanity. Even those who 
defected from the Sabbat often did so at least in part because they were unwilling to 
abandon the last of their Humanity in the name of the sect’s goals. Those who bring 
their adherence to a Path of Enlightenment with them may find themselves ostracized 
or even outright condemned by their fellow anarchs unless their Path’s teachings 
naturally complement the goals of the Movement (or at least don’t horrify the other 
anarchs too much). Indeed, given their relative youth, few anarchs follow or are even 
aware of the many Paths of Enlightenment of the Sabbat, let alone the other Paths 
exclusive to clans not well represented among the anarch population. 
Indeed, though the Anarch Revolt may date back some 600 years, many 
vampires who uphold the ideals of the Cause are too young to have lost so much 
Morality. They are still feeling creatures close to the human world and the revolu- 
tionary ideals they gained from it, and many treasure that closeness as a sign of the 
righteousness of their cause. An anarch who decides to go against this trend and 
follow an alternative Path of Enlightenment should take time to divest himself of his 
remaining human instincts and feelings. This is best done through a personal subplot, 
in which the anarch examines his own dwindling interest in Humanity and explores 
the alternative Paths available to him through involved, demanding roleplaying and 
soul-searching. For example, a neonate Lasombra antirribu recruit might have 
followed the Path of Humanity, but along with other lessons her mentor tells her of 
the virtues of the Path of Power and the Inner Voice. Over time, the Lasombra may 
see the advantages her teacher has spoken of, and decide to study this alternate Path 
of Enlightenment. Slowly, the young Lasombra works to remove her rapidly dwin- 
dling Humanity, stripping away all of her mind and spirit that does not conform to 
her new code of ethics and allowing herself to become a monster. After spending 
months shedding the last vestiges of human nature, she is finally ready to learn to 
listen only to her own conscience and start on the other Path. 
This is not to say that as a rule anarchs retain more Morality than their sect 
counterparts. Many older veterans of the struggle and those who have survived the 
wars and countless battles lose balance and devote more and more time and effort to 
the Cause rather than to spiritual matters, their soul’s inner balance between their 
human origins and the Beast within becoming secondary to the mundane needs of 
the struggle. In the process, they lose touch with their past and their beginnings. The 
experienced vampire’s Morality withers as a result of this frustration at the status quo 
and the endless conflict against the injustices of his existence. Sadly, hardcore 
veteran anarchs often risk falling to the Beast because their rage and frustration 
erodes their Morality and leaves nothing to fill that spiritual void unless they find an 
alternate Path of Enlightenment that encourages new behavior or they allow 
themselves to fall to Wassail. 
Creating A Revolutionary Soul 
When assigning your Virtue Traits, don’t forget that you’re trying to capture the 
different facets of a person’s soul- in this case, a person who not only has undergone 
a horrifying transformation into one of the undead, but thrown away all ties to the 
t
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
44 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


existing societies of her new unlife in search of something else. Don’t just put a lot 
of Traits in Courage because “it makes you immune to fear,” or load up on Conscience 
or Conviction “so I don’t have to worry about losing Morality” - 
that may work in 
game terms, but it creates an awfully shallow and one-dimensional character at best. 
Instead, think about why your anarch would have the Virtue Traits you assign him 
- 
does he have a lot of Courage because his parents died and he had to start facing 
tough decisions very young? Did she learn intense Self-control from an abusiv’e sire 
who tormented her with the prospect of feeding on her loved ones? Or did she witness 
the horrors of vampire society early and vowed that her Conscience would never let 
her turn a blind eye to its excesses? 
Conversely, if your anarch has a low score in one or two Virtues, explain why this 
is the case - 
was his Courage shattered after a particularly devastating defeat ,a few 
years back, his Self-control a mess because of his unstable mental state or her 
Conscience the worse for wear after a particularly brutal series of battles? Accounting 
for your character’s Virtue Traits in this fashion not only helps define your character 
further, but also generates interesting backstories and insight into this new persona. 
Explain it all, and don’t be shy about pouring on the details; such are the flourishes 
of which great characters are made. 
NFGATIVF 
TRAITS 
Negative Traits bring your anarch’s personality to life and make it a more 
realistic and believable creation. They also make a character more three-dimen- 
sional as no one, especially a vampire, is perfect. Negative Traits help develop and 
round out a character. You may take up to five Negative Traits but no more than three 
can be in any one Attribute category. Negative Traits must be roleplayed - 
you can 
really act oblivious or shy or sickly when playing your character. Storytellers should 
feel free to make players “buy off any Negative Trait they routinely ignore, since that 
character has so obviously worked to overcome his handicap. As a general rule, you 
are required to portray your Negative Traits at least once per evening - 
it need not 
be a particularly melodramatic display, but it should be something noticeable, such 
as a comment made in front of several witnesses or similar notable demonstration (at 
least to those who know what to look for). Obviously, some Negative Traits such as 
Lame may require a more continuous effort to portray -don’t hesitate to use them 
for their full dramatic effect! 
FLAWS 
Flaws showcase specific shortcomings or problems a vampire may have. These 
are deficiencies or character weaknesses that go beyond those denoted by Negative 
Traits. As with Negative Traits, Flaws are compensated with additional Free Traits 
for the Flawed character. Each Flaw has a point value assigned to it, ranging from one 
to seven Traits. The higher the point value, the more severe the Flaw. A character 
can take up to sevenTraits in Flaws, subject to Storyteller approval. While characters 
are welcome to take more Flaws than that, without taking so many as to become a 
parody of a character, they receive no compensation for Flaws that go beyond the 
seven-Trait limit. Flaws are listed on page 112 of Laws of the Night. 
CHAPTER TWO: TAUNG UP THE Ficm 
45 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Some Flaws are particularly dangerous to have in the ranks of the anarchs. For 
example, many anarch groups do not tolerate those with Infectious Bite; a Typhoid 
Mary spreading disease is a liability for the Masquerade and any group of active 
anarchs. Likewise, some Flaws simply don’t fit the standard view of anarch activity 
- 
for instance, the nomadic unlife typical of an anarch means that few can afford 
to be Territorial. It isn’t impossible to have these Flaws, just a bit unlikely - 
indeed, 
if a clever anarch can find a way to turn her Flaw into a weapon for the Cause, she 
may earn additional respect from her peers. 
Conversely, some Flaws are fairly common among anarchs. An Enemy is easily 
allowable as a Flaw, as is Notoriety, Hunted or Sire’s Resentment. However, the 
Storyteller should work to ensure that characters are taking these Flaws for valid 
reasons, and also that they reflect something more than just generally “being an 
anarch.” For instance, given their radical affiliation, many young anarchs could 
probably take the Sire’s Resentment Flaw, so it is perfectly within the Storyteller’s 
right to demand that it reflect something more aggressive or actively detrimental in 
terms of anarch characters. Likewise, Notoriety is a commonly overused Flaw for 
anarchs - 
unless the game is taking place in a particularly repressive area (with 
suitably dire repercussions for the one marked by this Flaw), simply being known as 
an anarch generally isn’t enough to warrant the Notoriety Flaw. The Storyteller may 
require the anarch who wishes to take the Notoriety Flaw to be linked - 
even if only 
by rumor and innuendo - 
to a shocking scandal, vicious attack or similar incident 
in addition to his “scandalous” anarch status. In the end, Storytellers are highly 
encouraged to decide which Flaws they want to permit in their games, especially in 
games primarily or entirely composed of anarchs. 
DFRANGFMFNTS 
You can also choose Derangements for your character at this time, each of which 
is worth two Free Traits. All Malkavians must have a Derangement as part of that 
clan’s innate mental instability, which is always considered “active” and for which 
they receive no Free Traits (though they may take additional Derangements and 
receive Free Traits for them as normal). Derangements cause unpredictable and 
uncontrollable behavior at times, and the Storyteller is justified in asking you to 
spend Experience Traits to “buy off any Derangement that is not roleplayed 
properly. You should always work with the Storyteller before deciding to take a 
Derangement. A Derangement is not just a funny quirk, irritating tendency or 
habitual eccentricity - 
those are represented by Flaws, Negative Traits or just plain 
roleplaying. A Derangement represents a true, serious mental illness on the part of 
the character, and isn’t something that can be easily dealt with or brushed aside. 
Bottom line: If you can’t handle the fact that your character’s Derangement can and 
almost certainly will make her unlife difficult and/or wreck her carefully laid plans 
at a critical moment in the future, don’t choose a Derangement. 
More vampire-specific Derangements are listed on page 212 of Laws of the 
Night. Subject to Storyteller approval, additional Derangements are listed on page 
72 of Laws of the Hunt and page 259 of Laws of the Reckoning. 
t
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
46 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


FREE 
TRAITS 
Add your Free Traits gained from Negative Traits, Flaws, Morality 10s:; and 
Derangements (if any) to your automatic five Free Traits granted at character 
creation. Be mindful that you do not create an anarch who has it all - 
or if you do, 
remember that things can and will change as the chronicle goes on. As a nile of 
thumb, remember that playing a character who “has everything” is a lot less fun than 
playing one who’s hungry for something, be it more Abilities, Influence, Disciplines 
or even the forbidden power offered by diablerie. The former character is static, just 
trying to hang on to what she has and maintain her “perfect” state, while the other 
is dynamic, naturally aggressive and interested in making her mark on the storyline 
as she seeks out her goals. This is not to say that you shouldn’t create the concept you 
desire -playing a character who feels as though he has it all and is desperate to avoid 
losing it can be a great roleplaying challenge too - 
but keep in mind that the point 
of spending Free Traits isn’t to “max out” your character, but rather to add the 
flourishes and reinforce the strengths that you feel best represents him. 
M F R I T ~  
Use Laws of the Night as a guideline; the listing begins on page 112. Some 
Merits are particularly common to anarch characters, though by no means univmal. 
Enchanting Voice, Daredevil, Natural Leader and even perhaps a (quiet) Debt of 
Gratitude or two are all natural choices, though Storytellers should keep a close eye 
on those players who seek to justify more powerful Merits like Iron Willor Unbontlabk 
just “because I’m a rebel.”Many anarchs seek freedom from the sects because they are 
only too aware of their vulnerability to supernatural bondage; taking that vulnerabil- 
ity away, especially without good reason, diminishes the importance of the struggle 
rather than enhancing it. With such powerful qualities as Merits in particular, it is 
important to remember that they are included to enhance and expand your 
roleplaying opportunities, not create some mythical invincible uber-character 
At the Storyteller’s option, players may select appropriate Merits (or Flaws) from 
other sources such as Laws of the Hunt. For example, the minor Merits and Flaws 
found in Laws of the Reckoning are designed specifically to help portray the 
everyday quirks of the ordinary people who make up the imbued, but can easily be 
taken advantage of as a source of so-called “easy Flaws” for unscrupulous players 
seeking to min-max their characters in other games. 
Free Trait costs are listed on pages 71-72 in Laws of the Night. 
STFP 
FIVF: SPARK 
OF LIFE 
Now that you’ve created statistics, juggled books and crunched numbers to filter 
your character concept into game terms, you must breathe life into that sheet ofpaper 
by creating a story. Don’t panic if you haven’t got a full history to accompany your 
character in the first game - 
the story may have holes that can be filled in as you 
develop and play your character. The holes in your history may also fill themselves 
in as you network with other characters in the game and establish connections or 
trade stories. (More than one pair of characters has become “old friends” after a few 
CHAPTER 
Two TAKM UP THE FIGHT 
41 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


minutes of in-character interaction, even if at the beginning of the night they didn’t 
have a clue about each other.) Indeed, you’d be surprised how often some of the best 
details about a character come to you when you’re inegame and talking about your 
past - 
it’s part of the magic of Mind’s Eye Theatre, so enjoy it and have fun. 
Laws of the Night already lists a number of basic categories to consider when 
bringing a character to life (pages 72-73), and Chapter Five also contains a wealth 
of information on the anarch mindset and how to approach your character. Here are 
a few more angles to consider. 
Ideals - 
What are you fighting for? Even if your character doesn’t consciously 
recognize them, you as a player should take some time to come up with a coherent 
picture of what your character believes in (or holds in contempt). What political 
impulse are you? Within that group, are you conservative, moderate or liberal? Do you 
follow some other plan or ideology entirely? What lengths will you go to for your ideals? 
What lines won’t you cross? Are you evangelical about your beliefs, or do you keep them 
to yourself? Are you enthusiastic, casual, subdued or even jaded about them? What 
beliefs do you endorse? Which ones absolutely disgust you? All these are crucial to 
playing a believable character, as they help you react appropriately and consistently to 
in-character problems. Give them serious thought! Honestly, you won’t regret it. 
Rebel Life -These 
questions might seem mundane, but they concern the nitty- 
gritty of unlife. Though frequently overlooked, they nevertheless help create a 
believable character. What are your possessions?Your weapon of choice? List your gear. 
What do you do every night and how and where do you hunt? Where is your haven, 
if you have one? Do you live alone or with your gang? If you have no haven, how do you 
escape the sun? What is your fighting style and skill level? Do you talk your way out of 
a sticky situation? Do you go looking for trouble or does it always seem to find you?How 
do you get around: by car, on foot, by moped or plane? How do you afford nightclub 
cover charges, ammunition, your electric bill?How do people contact you? Do you have 
a drop box, cell phone or use couriers to carry messages? Work with your pack to answer 
these questions and make sure you know everything about your comrades that you 
should - 
your collective unlives may well depend on it one night. 
New TRICKS 
FOR ANCIFNTDFAD 
While they may not enjoy the same social pull as the Camarilla or the fanatical 
rites of the Sabbat, the anarchs have been anything but idle over the past 600 years, 
and as a result have developed several unique tricks and powers to help further the 
Movement. 
ANARCH 
’DISCIPLINFS 
The anarchs have had to adapt more than perhaps any other group of vampires 
because they have been hunted and persecuted for so long. As a result, when the fangs 
and talons of the Camarilla or Sabbat come seeking anarch blood, they frequently 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
48 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


find surprises in store from their “upstart” foes. After all, the anarchs have learned 
over the centuries that the key to survival is flexibility. They also employ Disciplines 
toward a different goal than their Camarilla and Sabbat peers. Modern anarchs (often 
use their Disciplines to compensate for their lack of power and status. It may be 
finesse, it may just be the will to survive, but they have honed their Disciplines and 
are creative, if still very careful, in using them to achieve their noble and idealistic 
goals. One of the few things anarch and Camarilla vampires agree upon is the 
Masquerade, and cleaning up after their own messes when it is accidentally (or 
necessarily) breached is of the utmost importance to both sides. 
PFRSPFCTIVFS 
ON DISCIPLINES 
Animalism 
Teachers for Animalism are often sought after by anarchs, though anarchs use 
this Discipline somewhat differently than the Gangrel and Nosferatu. A nomadic 
gang favors the use of Beckoning to gather animals for feeding on them. Animals may 
not be the best eats, but beggars can’t be choosy, and having a food source come to 
you can mean the difference between continued unlife and Final Death for a 
desperate anarch. Feral Whispers is often used to create a source of information from 
animals who have eyes and ears in places an anarch cannot or will not go. Quell the 
Beast is a quick way to calm down a hot-headed Cainite about to march in with guns 
blazing when caution would be better advised, though few anarchs tolerate its use on 
them without exceedingly good cause, as it leaves them vulnerable to outside 
manipulation ifused carelessly. Drawing Out the Beast is most oftenused indire straits, 
when an anarch is about to blow her top and can’t afford to, but the Discipline can 
also suddenly make another vampire’s human servant turn on his master or otherwise 
create a bit of domestic havoc. While the disturbance may be traced to the anarch 
by perceptive Kindred, said Kindred may still be forced to injure or kill a valued 
retainer in the throes of such a frenzy, making any victory over the anarch a costly 
one. (After all, if one’s chauffeur suddenly goes mad while turning that tight comer, 
who knows what might happen . . . ) Subsume the Spirit is a good way to more directly 
infiltrate a haven or other location where infiltration in a more humanoid shape 
would prove difficult or impossible. It is not quite as reliable as actually becoming an 
animal, as allowed by the Protean Discipline, but it does the job almost as effectively. 
Auspex 
Anarchs most frequently use Auspex Disciplines as a means of augmenting their 
often meager security measures, or performing investigations into vampiric matters 
where mortal means simply aren’t adequate. Aside from their more obvious benefits, 
Heightened Senses, Aura Perception and Telepathy all have valuable uses in catching 
wind of various plots or interrogating others with improved accuracy. While many 
elders are too canny to be caught so easily by such tricks, their ghouls and other 
retainers often aren’t so vigilant, and aclever group of anarchs with these Disciplines 
can piece together a great deal about an elder’s operations, assets and connections 
even from a series of apparently casual conversations without ever needing a face-to- 
face confrontation with the elder inquestion. It’s all in knowing where to go and what 
CHAPTER Two TAKING UP THE FIGM 
49 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to say, and those anarchs who don’t gain some grasp of such information-gathering 
strategies are often left far behind when it comes to vital intelligence about their 
enemies. Telepathy is also an excellent way to keep in touch with your gang when 
silence is necessary, though the link can prove demanding to maintain when the 
action begins. As a whole, those few anarchs with the Psychic Projectioncapability use 
it largely for reconnaissance, but the danger of detection remains a potent deterrent 
to would-be spies, as do the wards and precautions surrounding many sites worth 
investigating in the first place. 
Celerity 
Anarchs use this Discipline largely as other Cainites do, to defend, attack and 
escape from impending trouble. Celerity is a valued Discipline to learn and is often 
taught as part of a trade for much-needed gear or knowledge among the anarch 
community. Speed is good, but also risks the Masquerade, and while sometimes there 
is no choice but to deliver a message at the speed Celerity offers, those who call too 
much mortal attention to themselves with their displays will earn unfavorable notice 
from Camarilla representatives and fellow anarchs alike. Some anarchs have also 
attempted to refine Celerity for use in sleight of hand, pickpocketing and similar fine 
manipulation, though any great success at such specialized uses has yet to become 
well known in the anarch community. 
Chimerstry 
As some independent Ravnos find sanctuary in the ranks of the anarchs, they 
most often use their unique Discipline of Chimerstry to keep their foes disoriented and 
play vital games of misdirection that draw attention away from the real goals of their 
fellows. Naturally enough, no few also use their powers of illusion to make money 
through confidence games, sucker bets and other feats of trickery, which can help 
endear them to local cash-strapped anarchs. However, despite the entreaties of their 
new comrades, even the most desperate Ravnos are still often extremely reluctant to 
teach this Discipline to those outside their clan, and those few who receive such 
instruction are cautioned to use it sparingly and not pass it on without approval from 
one of the clan. Those who defy this commandment have an unnerving tendency to 
suddenly disappear along with their students, never to be seen again . . . . 
Dementation 
Malkavians are all crazy and can share that madness through Dementation. 
Simple enough, right? Well, yes and no. While many anarchs claim to value chaos 
and disruption of the routine that the sects depend on, in practice the madness and 
disorder that this Discipline spreads is deeply unnerving to even the most hardcore 
anarchs. After all, the mind is the last true refuge of a free individual, and watching 
Dementation in action proves that even that bastion is vulnerable to rot and 
corruption. Anarchs using Dementation tend to make enemies fast if they are proven 
to be the responsible party; already viewed as mad dogs and radical lunatics by the 
stodgy and traditional-minded elders, having true lunatics among them spreading 
their repulsive disease makes the anarchs a genuine threat most cities will not tolerate 
for long. That being said, the unique cosmic insights provided by Eyes ofchaos have 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
50 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


proven instrumental in many anarch plans in the past, clever applications of The 
Haunting can keep foes off guard or waste their time in useless preparations, and most 
importantly the ability to disable one’s foes by using Passion, Voice ofMadness or even 
Total Insanity to provoke a humiliating outburst in Elysium is apotent weapon in the 
right hands. Nonetheless, most anarchs give these vampires a wide berth, never sure 
who the broken ones might decide to “gift” with madness next. 
Dominate 
Although they would dearly love to turn this Discipline, one of the enemy’s ‘ most 
hated tools, against the sects themselves, most anarchs admit that it’s simply not 
possible. As the Movement is still predominantly comprised of neonates and 
thinner-blooded ancillae, their potential to use Dominate is limited to other vampires 
of high generation, making it an ineffective weapon against the elders, at least 
directly. However, in response the anarchs have long honed their use of Dominate 
against another rich class of targets - 
mortals, especially those employed by the 
enemy. Equipped with a list of names and faces, a clever and subtle wielder of 
Dominate can gradually undermine an enemy’s Contacts, Allies, Retainers, Herd or 
even whole Influence Ratings through the use of repeated well-placed commands and 
suggestions; while such deterioration can take a long time to pull off, doing so remains 
one of the most powerful forms of attack at the anarchs’ disposal. Of course, this 
Discipline also has more direct applications, such as wrenching information from a 
target or gaining access to areas guarded only by mortals (such as the haven when the 
master is away). However, many younger or more idealistic anarchs do noi: take 
kindly to uses of Conditioning or Possession, as these remove free will and the (desire 
for self-determination from the individual so affected. These anarchs see such powers 
as a sign of cowardice, employed by elders desperate to control those around them or 
afraid to risk their own bodies, and watch fellow anarchs with these Disciplines 
closely for signs of abuse. Last but not least, Forgetful Mind is a perpetual favorite, as 
it makes feeding and even well-executed hit-and-fade operations a whole lot easier 
to pull off without attracting undue attention. 
Fortitude 
Anarchs often seek teachers for Fortitude, a useful Discipline to have when 
facing the many enemies with whom revolutionaries are bound to clash in their 
contentious unlives. Beyond its simple survival value, however, Fortitude is often an 
excellent rallying point for young firebrands and gang leaders - 
particularly bold 
displays of Fortitude when the odds are against the anarchs have been known to turn 
the tide of more than one battle, not to mention helped form the basis for the 
uniquely anarch combination Discipline of Give ‘Em Hell (outlined later in this 
chapter). By contrast, many canny leaders of the Movement begin training in 
Fortitude not long after assuming their positions, as they are only too aware of‘their 
excellent value as targets for assassination or intimidation by the Sword of Caine or 
the archons of the Camarilla. Some younger members scoff that this is the exact same 
line of reasoning that leads sect elders to hide from the world and manipulate from 
the shadows, but if the irony of this position bothers anarch adherents of Fon:itude, 
it has yet to change their outlook on the subject. 
CHAPILRTWO: TAKING UP THL Ficm 
51 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Obfuscate 
Like F o r t i d ,  Obfuscate is considered a utilitarian “defense Discipline” in the anarch 
ranks, and is frequently taught and traded by those familiar with its secrets. Naturally, for 
thosevampires who live ina sect’sdomain the increasedability to lie low that this Discipline 
offers is a true blessing, while vandals and brawlers value it for extra ease of escape in the wake 
of their misdeeds. While it is too easily pierced to have much value in long-term infiltration, 
a well-timed use of Musk ofa Thousand Faces can do a lot to sow confusion, gain access to 
restricted areas or even frame a particularly incautious or unpopular individual. Indeed, 
provided there are no video cameras or other recording devices to put the lie to the account 
of eyewitnesses later on, Obfuscate can go a long way toward making another Kindred’s 
unlife quite uncomfortable, and more than one anarch gang has profited from the chaos 
surrounding the indictment of a prominent sect member for some crime. Another popular 
variant is to use Obfuscate to appear as a target and ensure that one is seen in the area of a 
vicious attack or other scandalous activity; this often works as well or better at incriminating 
more powerful vampires in the eyes of their peers, as the implied connection established by 
the target’s mere presence is often much harder to disprove than the commission of an actual 
crime, especially to the naturally suspicious Kindred. 
Obtenebration 
Lasombra anarchs are rare in general, and even more rare are those willing to 
teach their mastery of shadows to outsiders for anything less than a truly exorbitant 
price. As such, in the Movement this Discipline is primarily employed for its combat 
applications, although canny anarchs sometimes use its simple presence to deflect 
suspicion onto the Sabbat when taking action in Camarilla territories. Given the 
scarcity of Lasombra anarchs, this ruse is often quite effective, though not without 
risk - 
the so-called “true” Lasombra of the Sabbat will often go to great lengths to 
track down their wayward brethren, especially those who make trouble for the sect, 
and attempt to “convert” them to the teachings of the Sword of Caine. 
Potence 
Might sometimes makes right, or at least can even the odds a little bit, and more 
than a few young anarchs seek out Potence for the powerful edge it offers in close 
combat. Even older anarchs still find many uses for this Discipline beyond crude 
crushing and smashing - 
many find that just the threat of using this Discipline is 
enough to force an opponent to submit, particularly if given a suitably impressive 
demonstration beforehand. It is also an excellent Discipline for those who wish to be 
heard at an anarch Rave -when 
you can clear your own path to the podium (or push 
back those who would take it from you), you can ensure that a lot more people hear 
your message! However, those anarchs with obviously superhuman levels of strength 
are monitored closely by their more attentive comrades, simply because the Potence 
wielder can easily break the Masquerade without realizing it, not to mention draw 
unwanted attention by accidentally injuring or killing mortals in what would 
normally be a minor confrontation for one with lesser strength. While blatant 
displays of Potence might impress the neonates or liven up a battlefield, wiser anarchs 
realize that short of all-out war, this Discipline is best used subtly, a vampiric variant 
of “walk softly and carry a big stick” diplomacy. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
52 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Presence 
It should come as no surprise that among such apassionate group as the anarchs, 
the sheer charisma and force of will that Presence embodies makes it popular from the 
ranting firebrands of the rank and file all the way up to the polished intellectuals 
debating history and politics in the halls of the Ivory Tower. What’s more, Pwsence 
is one of the few “social” Disciplines effective against elders of lower generation, 
although it is best employed carefully against such canny targets unless one deliber- 
ately intends to provoke their ire. Indeed, the older or more politically involved an 
anarch happens to be, the more likely she is to see beyond the immediate and thus 
more artificial lovebate applications of Presence in favor of using more subtle 
applications to bolster her natural efforts to gain lasting allies or conneci-ions. 
Summon has a number of creative uses for those interested in setting up meetings or 
even ambushes, particularly if one can summon a target to a place he would normally 
go anyway - 
after all, with a large enough welcoming party, the anarchs can a1 ways 
take their quarry elsewhere if they desire. About the only use for which nearly all 
anarchs have little love is Majesty -even most anarch leaders find its use distasteful, 
too reminiscent of the Camarilla’s decadent tyranny or Sabbat religious reverence. 
They use it only sparingly, especially in regard to their comrades in the Movement. 
Revolutionary leaders known to employ Majesty against their fellow anarchs too 
often or as a means of quashing criticism of their ideas quickly find themselves 
stripped of their station and sometimes even handed over to local sect representa- 
tives, since they “so obviously belong there.” 
Protean 
This Discipline is deservedly loved by anarchs fortunate enough to find a 
Gangrel teacher who will impart its secrets. Eyes of the Beast allows the anarch to take 
advantage of full darkness when fighting opponents, learning Earth Meld eliminates 
the need for a temporary haven or body bag while on the road or entering hostile 
territory, and Feral Claws gives an anarch access to powerful weaponry no mm3tter 
where he goes. Indeed, even the threat of the vicious damage dealt by FeralClaws has 
turned back weaker enemies in the past, and combined with any measure of Poience 
or Celerity (or both), they make an anarch truly terrifying in combat. Shape ofthe Beast 
and Mist Form allow the user to gain access to hard-to-reach locations or offer 
additional means of escaping dangerous situations, not least because few Cainities 
expect anarchs to possess such specialized talents. Perhaps most important to more 
idealistic members of the Movement, Protean makes its user much more self- 
sufficient, and that alone makes it a highly sought-after Discipline for those tired of 
bending the knee to the same vampiric routines. About the only problem with this 
Discipline is availability; Gangrel willing to teach the secrets of Protean are few and 
far between, even in the nights after their defection from the Camarilla, and even 
those friendly to the ideals of the Movement often express great reluctance to teach 
the secrets of this Discipline to outsiders. 
Quietus 
Despite popular rumors to the contrary, few Assamite anarchs are cold-blocded 
killers or frenzied war machines, and their applications of their clan’s proprietary 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKING UP THE FIGHI 
53 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Discipline reflect this. Silence of Death gives an anarch pack a clear advantage when 
things turn violent, and is frequently used around the real target of a raid while the 
rest of an Assamite’s gang makes as much noise as possible at a different target, in 
order to further mask the use of this Discipline. Of course, Scorpion’s Touch, Baal’s 
Caress and Taste of Death all ensure that an Assamite never runs out of devastating 
killing tools to have at her disposal. Surprisingly enough, Dagon’s Call sees the most 
use by Assamite anarchs -while 
its value against other vampires is quite consider- 
able, its real worth comes out in blackmail and extortion against another Kindred’s 
mortal contacts. Few mortals think anything of shaking hands with a pleasant if 
slightly mysterious stranger, after all, but while the internal damage inflicted on 
victims of this insinuative Discipline may be little more than an annoyance to the 
Kindred, it can prove fatal to mortals. Even the short time the Discipline lasts 
actually works to the Assamite’s advantage, since it tends to panic a Kindred whose 
retainer is at stake and force her to make decisions before she has examined all her 
options - 
an excellent way of keeping a normally cautious elder off balance. 
Thaumaturgy 
Few anarchs have any real grasp of Thaumaturgy and those who do know it are 
mistrusted as much as if not more than their Camarillapeers. Blood is the sustenance 
on which all vampires depend, after all, and those able to manipulate it with 
Thaumaturgy make most Kindred more than a little uncomfortable, anarchs in- 
cluded. Those with a talent for it often find themselves stymied by a lack of magical 
resources and teachers, making advancement torturously slow and prone to many 
frustrating dead ends and experimental failures along the way. Obsessed as most are 
with avoiding capture, many anarch Thaumaturgy users eschew the more blatant 
(and noticeable) offensive powers it offers in favor of primarily defensive rituals and 
other passive magics, such as Deflection of the Wooden Doom and Defense of the Sacred 
Hauen. Naturally, even the brutal conditions under which these so-called “gutter 
mages” exist cannot suppress the spark of mystical creativity that powers this 
Discipline, and over time a number of new rituals and other tricks unique to the 
anarchs have been cautiously circulated by those few free Thaumaturgy users in the 
Movement. In addition, while exceptions exist, anarchs are generally limited to the 
most common paths of Thaumaturgy, since the Tremere zealously track down those 
who display any facility with the rarer forms of magic, and the forces they send out 
to “discipline” such rogues have no problem storming a communal haven and 
incinerating everyone they find in order to accomplish their mission. This goes 
double for those known to teach Thaumaturgy to outsiders, especially those in 
possession of the new rituals devised by anarch magicians, and an unofficial code of 
“death before capture” has arisen between all anarch Thaumaturgy wielders. Given 
what the Tremere are likely to inflict on them, this is a sensible policy indeed. 
COMBINATION 
DISCIPLINES 
Over the centuries, many anarchs have discovered innovative ways to use the 
powers of their vampiric blood, much as their rivals in the sects have done. Indeed, 
more than one Cainite scholar has speculated that the eternal struggle between the 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
54 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


different vampiric factions has been the catalyst for the evolution of these specialized 
Discipline applications, several more mainstream Disciplines and even some of the 
minor bloodlines. Wise anarchs who come across the secrets of these combination 
Disciplines hold them in reserve until they are absolutely necessary, as they reprlesent 
one of the few edges unique to the Cause; the less the enemy is allowed to know cl 
r b out 
them, the better. 
Listed for each combination Discipline is an Experience Trait cost and the 
prerequisite Disciplines a character must possess before he can attempt to master this 
new power. Characters who fail to meet either of these requirements cannot even 
attempt the feats described - 
those who have the prerequisite Disciplines but who 
have not spent the necessary Experience Traits lack the necessary understanding to 
perform what the combination Discipline entails. It is also within a Storyteller’s 
discretion to disallow any or all of these combination Disciplines. While intended to 
expand roleplaying opportunities and demonstrate the heights vampiric power can 
reach with suitable effort and dedication, they can also be abused by power-hungry 
and unscrupulous players, and the Storyteller should always ensure that the needs of 
the story and the game as a whole come before a few lines on a character sheet. 
These combination Disciplines cannot be taken at character creation, regardless 
of what a character’s backstory might be; all combination Disciplines require an in- 
character teacher and ideally should only be earned after a suitable period of extensive 
investigation and painstaking experimentation. It is therefore highly recommended 
that the requisite Experience Traits for a combination Discipline not be spent all at 
once, but rather spent over a period of time to reflect the student’s efforts to master her 
new power. Not only does that evocatively demonstrate to the player the amount of 
time it takes to master these complex Disciplines, but it also keeps the new Discipline 
from seeming to “magically appear” on a character’s sheet between one game and the 
next, and encourages the acquisition of it to become part of the character’s personal 
storyline. In addition, Storytellers should remember that required teachers are rare, and 
few anarchs possess such unique variations to the standard Disciplines. Finding a 
suitable instructor can easily be the goal of a fairly long storyline involving of a number 
of expensive favors, thorough investigation and personal growth. 
Note: For purposes of power comparison, a combination Discipline is consid- 
ered to be the same level as the highest-level Discipline it requires to learn. Thus, if 
a combination Discipline requires two Basic Disciplines and one Advanced Disci- 
pline, it is considered an Advanced power. 
Aspect of Beast 
Prerequisites: Intermediate Animalism, Intermediate Dominate 
This Discipline calls upon the victim’s inner bestial nature and causes it to 
manifest physically. The victim takes on the mien of an animal. Most people 
witnessing this power in use have an eerie and unsettling impression that the target 
is obviously not human. In other cases, it is much more severe - 
the target’s Beast 
actually comes to the surface, altering her appearance into a beast-human hybrid 
capable of causing panic in mortals and the weak-willed. 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKING UP THE FIGHI 
55 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


This Discipline costs one Blood Trait to activate and requires the user to best the 
intended victim in a Social Test. It can be retested with Empathy. Those seeing the 
victim of Aspect of the Beast will perceive her as having a pronounced animal 
characteristic. This feral appearance is the result of the character’s temperament and 
reflects the target’s personality. The Storyteller has the final say on whether or not 
an animal aspect is appropriate and approves the appearance of the manifestation. 
A Ventrue loan shark may appear to have a multitude of teeth, making his predatory 
nature plain, while a clever and unscrupulous Nosferatu who has wronged the anarch 
may appear as a fox with large ears and a pointy muzzle, or a brutal and repressive 
Camarilla scourge might manifest his inner creature by taking on the snout of a pig. 
If the victim has less than three permanent Willpower Traits, he literally appears 
as a “beast-man” and will cause Delirium in non-supernatural creatures, just as if they 
have seen a werewolf.. . or worse. The victim is down two Social Traits on all 
challenges and the witnesses’ reaction to the bestial visage should be actively role- 
played. Remember that this power is a Dominate-based Discipline, and the Kindred 
using it must be of equal or lower generation for it to work. This Discipline only 
functions on one victim at a time, although it can be used on multiple victims per 
session with additional Blood Traits and Social Tests. The effect lasts one full night; 
the victim’s appearance returns to normal at sunrise. The victim gains the Negative 
Social Traits Bestial x2, Repugnant and Feral for the rest of the night and must wear 
an appropriate tag describing her altered appearance. Obfuscate will not disguise this 
feral mien, though the bestial outward form does not prevent actual invisibility. 
This power costs 8 Experience Traits to learn. 
Badger’s Hide 
Prerequisites: Basic Fortitude, Intermediate Protean (Shpe of the Beast) 
A Gangrel developed this Protean-based combination Discipline for defense, 
making the user’s skin exceedingly leathery and tough. In the wild, a badger’s thick hide 
repels bee stings; likewise, Badger’s Huh is specially designed to repel impaling attacks. 
This Discipline costs one Blood Trait to activate and lasts for one scene. Any 
primarily piercing melee attacks such as knives, stakes, spears or arrows will do one 
less level of lethal damage for that scene, to a minimum of no damage. Weapons that 
merely slash or hack such as swords or axes are unaffected by this power, unless the 
attacker is specifically attempting to impale the vampire with them (such as trying 
to stab the vampire through the heart). Additionally, the increased resistance 
conferred while this power is active allows the user to spend a stamina-related 
Physical Trait to receive a retest on any staking tests (including the two additional 
tests required to stake successfully). Only one Physical Trait may be spent per test, 
however. Staking attacks that inflict no damage after this and other powers reduce 
damage do not receive a chance to stake the vampire. The Storyteller is the final 
judge over whether Badger’s Hide is effective against aparticular form of attack. This 
Discipline is useless against bullets and other high-velocity projectiles, though other 
levels of Fortitude can be used normally in addition to this power to further ameliorate 
any damage the user sustains. 
This power costs 6 Experience Traits to learn. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
56 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Call Upon the Blood 
Prerequisites: Advanced Animalism, Intermediate Auspex (Telepathy) 
Ever resourceful, the anarchs developed this Discipline to scout out the location 
of other vampires in the area, learning their numbers and possibly locating their 
strongholds with enough practice. This power enables a Kindred to sense the Beast 
within her targets, allowing her to find other Kindred, ghouls and even certain were- 
creatures by sensing that primal spark deep within them. The Animalism Discipline 
attunes the user to any creature that harbors a Beast, and the Auspex aspect of this 
power permits him to interpret that sensation and extend his senses beyond his 
normal limits. By using this ability, the scout can tell approximately how many 
Kindred and ghouls are in the area. The power does not cause a bright red neon arrow 
to point to the local undead, but it does offer a rough estimate of Kindred or ghoul 
presence nearby. 
This Discipline costs one Blood Trait to activate and requires a Menta[ Test 
against a difficulty of six Traits with the Storyteller. (Retest with Suretiettzl.) If 
successful, the character receives an impression of how many individuals with Beasts 
are nearby, as well as a general idea of their proximity. If a Storyteller is not available, 
or if the players prefer this application in general, this Discipline allows the user to 
make a Mental Test against a particular individual; if successful, the user may ask the 
target “Are you a vampire or a ghoul?” The target must answer honestly. Those 
subjected to this power may make an Awareness Test to sense the Discipline’s use, as 
using it gently stirs the Beast, but cannot tell from what or which direction the strange 
sense is coming - 
only that someone is probing for the presence of the Beast nearby. 
A character can only use Call Upon the Blood for up to 10 minutes. Attempting 
it more times in a night than the user has Self-Control/Instinct Traits may require the 
user to test against frenzy or risk fully awakening her own Beast in the process. In no 
case can a character use this Discipline more than twice as many times per night as 
her rating in that particular Virtue Trait. 
This power costs 9 Experience Traits to learn. 
Chaos Fold 
Prerequisites: Advanced Dementation, Intermediate Dominate (Conditioning) 
Malkavians are more common among the anarchs than one would imagine. 
They have much to offer the Movement, and Chaos Fold is one of the ultimate 
expressions of their power to help the Anarch Cause. It allows the Malkavian to 
“fold” a latent Derangement into a target’s psyche. The Derangement lies in wait 
until a certain event triggers it, in a manner similar to the Dominate power of 
Mesmerism. This trigger causes the Derangement to become active and the target 
suffers a full-blown attack of the implanted Derangement. Until it is triggered, the 
subject does not suffer from the Derangement, and is not even aware of its presence 
unless it is somehow brought to his attention (such as a particularly dedizated 
Telepathy or Forgetful Mind search). Once triggered, the Derangement remain: fully 
and violently active for the scene or hour (whichever is longer), during which time 
the target cannot even spend Willpower to momentarily subdue his madness, though 
CHAITR Two: TAKING 
UP THE FIGHT 
51 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


he may still defend himself normally. The Derangement brought on by this Disci- 
pline disappears completely after the scene in which it is triggered, though of course 
the victim may be targeted by this power again in the future. A victim may not be 
targeted by this power more than once at a time, however. 
To use Chaos Fold, the user selects an appropriate Derangement and makes a 
Social Test against the target, retested by Empathy. The wielder is two Traits down 
on the test if she does not have that particular Derangement herself. This Derang- 
ement then lies dormant in the targeted character until a trigger event happens, at 
which point it manifests in full force as an active Derangement. If the unfortunate 
victim of Chaos Fold has three or fewer permanent Willpower Traits, the wielder may 
choose to spend a Willpower Trait to make the Derangement permanent once it is 
triggered, in which case the target must buy it off normally after a period of therapy 
and similar mental rehabilitation. Because this is still aDominate--based power, it can 
only be used against mortals or Kindred of equal or higher generation. 
Chaos Fold costs 12 Experience Traits to learn. 
Give ‘Em Hell 
Prerequisites: Basic Fortitude or Potence, Intermediate Presence 
When push comes to shove and violence is the only remaining option, the 
champions of the Cause can use Give ‘Ern Hell to motivate and inspire their fellow 
anarchs to stay the course rather than run to fight another night. This Discipline 
rallies the troops to perform greater feats of valor when the odds are against them. By 
making a display ofhis physical prowess during the fight, such as throwing a barricade 
aside or ignoring the pain of a blow that would drop a lesser vampire to his knees, the 
anarch inspires others to greater acts. Using the Discipline requires a dramatic display 
of fearlessness in the face of danger that is clearly witnessed by those the anarch 
wishes to affect. 
After a suitably inspirational display of courage and physical prowess, the player 
makes a Social Test against a difficulty of seven Traits, retesting with Leadership. He 
can then choose up to three other characters within his line of sight who will gain 
an extra Courage Trait for the remainder of the fight. This extra Courage Trait cannot 
exceed the maximum number of Virtue Traits permitted - 
if this would bring a 
vampire over the limit, the excess is converted to temporary Willpower instead. The 
wielder cannot use this Discipline on himself, nor can it be used more than once on 
the same target per combat, though it may be used multiple times to cover a number 
of different allies. Anarchs known to use Give ‘Em Hell are watched closely by their 
more cynical comrades; sell-outs occasionally use this power to bolster the strength 
of foes of the Movement just before betraying their former companions, causing not 
only a devastating defeat but also a crippling blow to local morale. 
This Discipline costs 6 Experience Traits to learn. 
Guardian Vigil 
Prerequisites: Basic Auspex, Basic Celerity, Basic Fortitude 
Anarchs who endured long periods of guard duty during the Anarch Revolt first 
developed this Discipline, and it still sees use in modern times. The character must 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
58 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


spend a Blood Trait to activate this power; once active, so long as she does not move 
more than three paces from where she started the Guardian Vigil, the user cannot be 
Surprised by any conventional means. In fact, the user is two Traits up on all 
Challenges that would normally surprise her, due to her unexpected readiness. ‘Only 
supernatural powers provide any way of getting past the guard, and even they a.ren’t 
quite as effective as normal (see below). Guardian Vigil lasts until one full hour has 
passed, the anarch moves more than three paces from her appointed spot or 
something comes along that triggers a violent response from the guard. 
Inessence, this Discipline allows the anarch to enter a trance-like state ofhyper- 
awareness for long periods of time, ready to spring into action at a moment’s notice. 
Should a direct threat appear, the user can activate her Celerity to pre-empt the threat 
normally, even if it’s something like a sniper attack or is otherwise not normally 
covered by Alacrity. The normal rules for Obfuscate apply, so if a person attempting 
to sneak by the user has more Obfuscate than the anarch has Auspex, the cloaking 
effect of Obfuscate protects the transgressor. In the case of resisted tests, the anarch 
is two Traits up to detect the Obfuscated character, due to the user’s increased 
awareness of her surroundings. Guardian Vigil completely prohibits the use of Stealth 
and other mundane methods of sneaking past the anarch - 
they simply do not work, 
regardless of how skilled someone is in such abilities. 
As potent as it is, there are limits to Guardian Vigil - 
the actions taken against 
the anarch using this Discipline must affect him directly and immediately for this 
power to activate. While it can foil a sniper on the rooftop, it does not detect a camera 
placed there during the day and remote-controlled at night to record the vampires 
present, for example, nor would it detect or prevent a threat against one of the user’s 
companions. It can be activated as often as one likes per game, but each activation 
costs an additional Blood Trait and works for only one immediate threat. 
Guardian Vigil requires 7 Experience Traits to learn. 
King of the Hill 
Prerequisites: Advanced Fortitude, Intermediate Presence 
This Discipline is proof of what happens when an immovable object meets a 
normally irresistible force. It was developed by agang leader in the Anarch Free State 
who allegedly met his Final Death when he tested the power of this Disciplirie by 
playing chicken with a speeding freight train. The train won the game, but the sang 
leader’s feet remained firmly planted between the rails. 
This power costs nothing to use and is considered always on, and prevents a 
Kindred from being knocked off her feet by any means that would not instantly cause 
Final Death. Attacks still inflict damage normally, but will not knock the anarch 
down, force her back or otherwise move her short of inflicting Final Death. Using this 
Discipline often breaches the Masquerade - 
a car that hits a vampire using King of 
the Hill will be knocked back or wrapped around the Kindred as if it hit a telephone 
pole - 
but as a means of intimidation or morale boosting it remains impressive. The 
user receives a free retest on all Intimidation or Leadership tests with any witnesses who 
have seen her demonstrate her inhuman endurance in the current scene. 
CHAPTER 
Two: TAKING UP THE FIGHI 
59 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


This Discipline will not protect Kindred from completely encompassing or 
inhumanly powerful impacts such as a speeding train or a crashing airplane. Such 
devastating impacts and the fire caused by the resultant spilled fuel would turn 
Kindred to ash, send various body parts flying all over and otherwise cause Final 
Death. (Rumors persist of an even more powerful variant that includes Potence and 
allows for truly staggering feats of resilience.. . but they remain rumors at present.) 
Naturally, additional levels of Fortitude can be used to alleviate the damage withstood 
using King of the Hill until the Kindred reaches Incapacitated. When Incapacitated, 
he is still standing up, but can only bid Stamina-related Traits. Only when the user 
enters torpor or Final Death is inflicted does he at last fall. The severity of a given 
object’s impact and the damage sustained are ultimately up to the Storyteller. 
This Discipline costs 8 Experience Traits. 
Memory Rift 
Prerequisites: Advanced Obfuscate, Intermediate Presence 
By using Vanish From the Mind’s Eye and sheer charisma, the Kindred creating 
a Memory Rift disappears completely from the memory of a target. The target’s 
memory replaces the disappearance with the most logical alternative it can create, 
such as imagining that a mortal police officer fell or jumped off a bridge rather than 
having been pushed by the user of this Discipline. The target will strongly resist 
attempts to convince her otherwise, since her mind has created a believable 
replacement for the missing memory. Even direct evidence to the contrary will be 
greeted with deep skepticism. 
This Discipline requires the expenditure of a Blood Trait and a Mental Trait, 
and the user must make aSocialTest against the target, retesting withsubterfuge. The 
user may attempt to influence more than one target in a scene, but must spend Traits 
and test against each target individually; she cannot make agroup challenge with this 
power. If successful, the target not only ignores the character, but by the coming dawn 
forgets the user was ever there. Once activated, the character can take no aggressive 
action against the target and must leave within five minutes after activating the 
Discipline, remaining out of the target’s sensory range for at least a full hour of game 
play. Failure to stay out of sensory range, even if Obfuscated or otherwise supernatu- 
rally concealed, causes the target’s memories of the user to flood back at dawn and 
essentially ruins the use of this power. 
Remember that targets still recall any events that happened, just not the 
presence of the anarch using Memory Rift. If a target witnessed the anarch shooting 
someone, he will still remember the shooting - 
his mind will simply make up 
another suspect or even alter his memories to ensure that ‘‘I didn’t get a good look 
at him. Or her. I’m not even sure. Sorry.”The use of this Discipline can be uncovered 
with the proper use of Dominate and similar powers that probe the memory, though 
its insinuative nature puts such seekers three Traits down on all relevant tests unless 
they know exactly what they are looking for and/or have dealt with this Discipline 
in the past. 
Learning Memory Rift costs 5 Experience Traits. 
t
THE ANARCH GJIDE 
60 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Retain the Quick Blood 
Prerequisites: Advanced Celerity, Advanced Quietus 
When the original Anarch Revolt erupted in Europe, the Assamite clan had an 
informal alliance with the antitribu who sought to throw off the bondage of their 
elders. Few anarchs possessed knowledge of the Quietus Discipline, but a handful did, 
and developed this potent Discipline to aid in conserving their passionate blood. 
These modern nights, few anarchs know Quietus, and even fewer have ever heard of 
this exceedingly rare combination Discipline. However, when employed its effects 
are spectacular, as Retain the Quick Blood allows a Kindred to conserve her precious 
vitae without spending it as liberally as is normally required to fuel Celenty. 
Any Blood Traits spent to activate Celerity (and only Celerity) return to the 
character’s system in one full hour. Blood Traits returned in this manner can never 
exceed the character’s maximum Blood Trait pool, and any excess returning Traits 
are lost. The vitae returns due to astrange anomaly in the Kindred’s biology, the same 
anomaly that makes Assamite blood so unique and deadly. This Discipline’s use is not 
visible to onlookers. This Discipline does not bestow an unlimited supply of vitae on 
its user, as it takes time to regain the expended Blood Traits, and hunger frenzy i s  still 
arisk in combat when avampire pushes her limits using Disciplines that require blood 
to fuel them. 
Storytellers should keep a close eye on those seeking to learn this Discipline - 
it 
is exceedingly rare even for a combination Discipline, and those few Assamite anarchs 
who know its secrets never impart it without asking a high price in return. Accordingly, 
its acquisition should be the culmination of a suitably involved and demanding story, 
not just a way to spend a few excess Experience Traits one has lying around. 
Retain the Quick Blood costs 10 Experience Traits. 
Sensory Overload 
Prerequisites: Basic Auspex, Intermediate Dementation 
Anarch Malkavians are always a force to be reckoned with because of the 
uniquely disturbing ways they find to use their already unsettling Disciplines against 
their enemies. One such use is Sensory Overload, an offensive Discipline that 
combines the paranormal phenomena perceived by Auspex with the madness and 
delusions spread through Dementation. This Discipline allows a Kindred to force his 
Auspex powers upon another, but the sensory or mental input of the Auspex is twisted 
by the Dementation. The user cannot control the precise effects of this Discipline; 
while he may choose the level of Auspex he wishes to “bestow” on his target in hopes 
of inspiring a particular response, the exact effects generated are entirely within the 
Storyteller’s discretion. By the same token, this Discipline always manifests in a 
manner that is distracting, painful or socially dangerous for the target; while she may 
certainly believe she is learning something genuinely valuable, this Discipline never 
generates a beneficial result for the target. 
To active this Discipline, the user must choose a target and make a successful 
Social Test, retested by Empathy, and spend a Willpower Trait. The Auspex effect 
“given” to the target must be a level of Auspex the user has. (You cannot force 
CHAP~ER 
Two TAKING UP THE FIGHT 
61 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Telepathy on a target if you only possess Heightened Senses, for example.) Examples of 
possible effects of Sensory Overloud based on the level of Auspex granted are provided 
below. This Discipline lasts for a number of hours equal to the user’s permanent 
Willpower Traits minus the target’s current Willpower Traits, with a minimum 
duration of one hour. Note that the Malkavian wielding this power (for no other clan 
has yet braved the excruciating process of learning this Discipline) retains full 
command of Auspex during this time - 
he does not truly “loan” his power to the 
target, only a fractured, horrifying reflection of it. 
Regardless of the specific effects generated, all targets of Sensory Overload suffer a 
two-Trait penalty to all Social and Mental tests for the duration of the power due to the 
constant distraction from this phantom input, and are required to roleplay their 
disorientation and mistaken impressions to the best of their capability. At the 
Storyteller’s discretion, particularly susceptible targets such as those with Acute Senses, 
relevant Derangements or other specific “weak points” for this power to exploit might 
be required to spend a Willpower Trait to avoid being overcome with sensory input, 
or even suffer an active Derangement for the duration of the Discipline. While these 
perceptions may certainly shock the target, even those who have a compelling reason 
to disbelieve the false input they’re offered still can’t bring themselves to ignore it, and 
those less knowledgeable in psychic manipulation are likely to either believe in the 
visions they are granted or at best believe they are suffering some kind of psychotic fit. 
Targets who already possess the level of Auspex targeted by Sensory Overload may make 
a Mental Test with the Awareness Ability against the user’s Mental Traits to discern 
that something is wrong with their perceptions, but otherwise they are even more likely 
to believe their perceptions than most targets, accustomed as they are to receiving such 
supernatural sensory information. 
It costs 8 Experience Traits to learn Sensory Overload. 
Seventh Chinese Brother 
Prerequisites: Intermediate Celerity, Elder Fortitude (Personal Armor) 
Once upon a time in China, there were seven brothers, and each one had a 
special natural ability. The seventh brother had iron bones that prevented his death 
by decapitation. This Discipline allows the user to emulate that seventh Chinese 
brother by hardening one part of his body and improving the entire body’s recupera- 
tive properties so that the user’s limbs cannot be severed or her flesh punctured. 
Anarchs employing this Discipline most often use it to save their own heads, quite 
literally, but it works just as well on a hand, arm, leg or foot, should the need arise to 
protect these extremities. 
To activate the power, the user must spend a Willpower Trait and select a single 
appendage. (The neck and head count as a single appendage for purposes of this 
Discipline.) The next blow that should sever that appendage is then ignored and does 
no damage, nor does the victim of the strike suffer any penalty. The power can be 
reactivated at the beginning of the next turn to prevent loss of the head or limb. As 
long as the user has Willpower Traits, she can protect herself in this fashion. A lesser- 
known but still legitimate use of this Discipline is to harden the muscles, tendons and 
t
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
62 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
TWO: TAMNG 
UP THE Ficm 
63 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


bones around the heart. In this case, a Kindred can at least prevent being staked until 
his Willpower runs out. The duration of this effect is one scene or until a sufficiently 
powerful blow is struck, whichever comes first. If a scene ends before the decapitat- 
ing, amputating, or disabling blow is struck, the power has no effect and can be 
activated again in a later scene. 
Because targeting specific limbs is not generally permitted in Mind Eye’s 
Theatre, the Storyteller may wish to modify this power or even disallow it outright 
ifhe does not feel it offers a significant benefit in the game. (Keep in mind the benefits 
it offers against staking, however.) 
It costs 12 Experience Traits to learn this power. 
Smiling Jack‘s Trick 
Prerequisites: Advanced Dominate, Advanced Obfuscate 
According to the legend attributed to this combination Discipline, a vicious 
Camarilla scourge and his lieutenant once cornered the notorious anarch Smiling 
Jack. Jack did his trick and the scourge turned on his loyal lieutenant while Jack 
escaped laughing into the night. The lieutenant was turned to ash and the scourge 
was disgraced, as he lost a highly esteemed lieutenant and let a known fugitive escape 
in the process. This Discipline uses Obfuscate to trick the mind and senses and uses 
Dominate to further confuse someone into believing that the user is another person 
in the immediate vicinity. The user can apparently switch identities with any person 
within 10 steps of her. 
Smiling Jack’s Trick requires a Mental Test against the person the user intends to 
deceive (not the person whose appearance she intends to switch); it may be used 
against multiple targets with a regular group test, although the user may only switch 
identities with one person at a time. If successful, the person with whom the user 
switched takes on the user’s appearance, while the anarch himself assumes the other’s 
appearance down to the smallest detail. This identity shift lasts for one hour, time 
that is generally best spent leaving the area before the ruse is discovered. Like all 
Dominate effects, it can only be used against a target of equal or higher generation. 
Smiling Jack’s Trick costs 9 Experience Traits to learn. 
Suck It Up 
Prerequisites: Basic Animalism, Advanced Protean 
Anarchs are no strangers to spilled blood, whether their own or that of those they 
tangle with. However, spilled blood, regardless of how it got there, tends to attract 
a lot of unwanted attention. No matter who wins the fight, some anarchs have come 
up with an ingenious way to hide their conflicts and “clean up” the wasted blood, 
whether from a pool on the sidewalk or an incriminating stain on a carpet. The last 
thing a vampire wants is to be seen voraciously licking the sidewalk like an ice cream 
cone or looming over the body of a fallen comrade drinking the remains of her vitae. 
Kindred are advised to employ Suck It Up discreetly, as use of this Discipline is 
obviously not normal or natural. 
A Kindred using this Discipline merely touches the pool of blood and absorbs it 
like a sponge at a rate of one Trait per turn. Suck It Up requires a successful Mental 
t
i
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
64 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Test against a difficulty of six Traits, which can be retested with the Surukal or 
Scrounge Abilities. The absorbed Blood Traits go into the Kindred’s pool, and cannot 
exceed her maximum number of Blood Traits. The Storyteller is the final arbiter of 
how much blood can be sucked up from a particular pool in this manner. The 
“vacuuming up” does not do the job perfectly; telltale stains remain (though faint), 
and the dried husks of bloodless bodies certainly constitute a major Masquerade 
breach. Unless thoroughly scoured with other means such as chemical cleaning 
agents, enough traces of blood remain on the scene to perform forensic analysis. 
It costs 5 Experience Traits to learn this power. 
Tenebrous Veil 
Prerequisites: Basic Obfuscate (Unseen Presence), Basic Obtenebration 
This simple but effective combination Discipline, devised by Malkaviari and 
Lasombra anarchs, combines the basic properties of Obfuscate and Obtenebr&m. 
While Cloak of Shadows warps the mind’s perceptions, Tenebrous Veil further prevents 
being seen by wrapping the very stuff of the shadows around the hiding vampire. 
Provided a shadow is available, with the expenditure of a Blood Trait a Kindred can 
stand perfectly motionless and wrap that shadow around herself, allowing her to remain 
unseen as long as she stays motionless and does not make a sound. This Discipline has 
no effect on other Obfuscate powers, as movement or speech of any kind disrupts the 
veil immediately. What’s more, the addition of the shadow prevents anyone from using 
Auspex to see through the Discipline’s Obfuscate aspect, even if the Auspex user has 
more levels of that Discipline than the Tenebrous Veil user has Obfuscate. However, as 
Lasombra are quite rare among anarchs, this Discipline is not common and thus 
remains relatively unknown despite its potential usefulness. 
Tenebrous Veil costs 3 Experience Traits. 
ANARCH 
THAUMATURGY 
Anarch Thaumaturgy is incredibly rare, as few Tremere manage to liberate 
themselves from the Pyramid and survive for long enough to develop new ritual:; and 
paths. In addition, few anarchs have time for the grueling research and experimen- 
tation required to make great strides in Thaumaturgy. Few anarch Tremere have 
mastered the Discipline or even possess a particularly advanced understanding of it, 
and so very few new rituals exist. Sometimes the rumor mill provides whispers about 
rogue tomes of blood sorcery, rituals and secrets pilfered from Tremere libraries. 
These stories come and go in waves, but they always interest Camarilla-serving 
Tremere eager to uncover new rituals and magic to rise in the Tremere hierarcl- y, or 
even just earn easy prestige from their elders by capturing or destroying a rogue clan 
member. Add to this the fact that more than a few such stories are actually traps laid 
by the Tremere to lure unwary anarchs to their demise, and it’s small wonder that 
Anarch Thaumaturgy advances so slowly. 
Unless otherwise noted, all ritual requirements listed are considered in addl tion 
to any tests or expenditures normally required for casting a Thaumaturgy ritual, as 
outlined in Laws of the Night, p. 185. 
CHAPTERTWO: 
TAKING 
UPTHL FIGHI 
65 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BASIC RITUALS 
Banish Big Brother 
This thoroughly modern ritual allows the thaumaturge to detect and potentially 
nullify technological eavesdropping devices -microphones, 
tape recorders, surveil- 
lance cameras and so on. In addition to normal ritual requirements, the caster must 
also completely bum a captured representation of himself such as a picture or vocal 
recording; additional participants in the ritual must bring their own items to be 
consumed in this fashion. When the items are completely destroyed, recipients must 
sprinkle the remains over themselves for the ritual to take effect. Until the next 
sunrise, those affected by this ritual automatically feel a buzzing sensation along the 
backs of their necks any time they are taped or monitored by such devices, as well as 
sensing the general nature of the machine (listening, watching, recording, etc.) and 
its approximate location relative to the ritual recipient. The ritual does not reveal if 
anyone is operating the device, however, nor does it impart any working knowledge 
of how to use or disable it. 
Once a Kindred is aware of the attempted surveillance, he may spend a Mental 
Trait to temporarily disable the devices involved. Simple technology such as tape 
recorders or ATM cameras malfunction automatically; disabling more complex 
systems or remote devices may also require a Mental Test (retest Security), at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. Affected items become hopelessly inoperative until the end 
of the scene, at which time they resume functioning normally. Disabling an item is 
considered “pre-emptive” to it recording the user in any way; if a photographer is 
waiting in the bushes and leaps out to take a surprise picture of the Kindred, the 
ritualist still gets a normal test to attempt to disable the camera before a picture is 
taken. Magical technology or sentient devices cannot be disabled with this ritual, 
though the thaumaturge will still be aware of them. 
This ritual does not allow the Kindred to deactivate such devices at will; the 
recipient cannot cause a person’s camera to malfunction if the person is taking a 
picture that didn’t include the Kindred, for example. Any such devices targeted must 
be actively recording the recipient in order to be subject to this ritual, whether they 
were intended to capture her or not. 
Flatline 
After incantations and ritual gestures, the ritualist causes a mortal to exhibit no 
secondary characteristics of being alive. This ritual works on willing and unwilling 
targets alike, and is a terrifying way of threatening one of the ritualist’s enemies. 
Victims have no pulse and no breath, and this apparent state of death also extends 
to mechanical devices regardless of how simple or complex. A heart monitor or 
electrocardiogram will show the flat line of the ritual’s name, mirrors will not fog up 
with breath, a stethoscope will hear only silence and so on. Even if stabbed or shot, 
the mortal’s blood will not flow; it merely trickles out and wells up into a congealed 
pool around the wound (though actual damage inflicted does not change). This 
power lasts until the sunrise after the night it is cast. It has no effect on supernatural 
beings. To empower this ritual, the caster must place a small dead insect or animal 
someplace in the subject’s home. It must be the subject’s actual home, not a hotel 
+
I
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
66 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


room or a friend’s house where the target happens to be crashing. It does not work 
on the homeless as a result of this ritual component, and regardless of the target’s 
nature a new insect must be placed for each casting. 
Iron Body 
This ritual allows the Kindred to tolerate the mythical and factual anathema to 
their kind. Similar to the Fortitude Discipline, Iron Body makes Kindred tougher. For 
every 10 minutes spent performing this ritual, with a maximum of 40 minutes spent 
casting it, the effect lasts one hour, and one level of aggravated damage sustained 
within that period is converted to lethal damage instead. Thus, a character who 
performed this ritual for 40 minutes would be under its protection for four hours, 
during which time up to four levels of aggravated wounds would be converted to 
lethal damage. Additional levels of aggravated damage inflicted beyond that amount 
or after the ritual ends are unaffected, and this ritual may not be performed again until 
the first ritual has expired. Note that this ritual must be performed during in-game 
time - 
if you want to show up with it on, you must show up at least 40 minutes after 
play begins (or for however long you want your character to have done the ritual), 
or take an uninterrupted break of up to 40 minutes during play while performing the 
ritual. The ritual’s subject must also carry a spent shell casing with him while this 
ritual is in use. 
INTFRMFDIATF 
RITUALS 
Detect the Hidden Observer 
This ritual was supposedly developed by the same paranoid Warlock who 
devised Banish Big Brother, as a means of further ensuring that valuable secrets do not 
fall into the hands of enemies of the Movement. It was intended to allow the ritualist 
to completely block supernatural means of eavesdropping in the same fashion as its 
cousin disables surveillance devices, but unfortunately unknown enemies destroyed 
the Warlock before he could complete his work. To enact this ritual, the caster must 
drain a Blood Trait and cast it into a fire fueled by personal documents or recordings; 
copies will suffice, but they must be the caster’s own work. After the fire dies down, 
the ritualist must anoint her forehead, each eye and each ear with the ashes that 
remain, leaving small telltale black marks for those who know what to look for - 
though given the rarity of Anarch Thaumaturgy, few do. 
Until the next sunrise, the ritual recipient feels a sharp pain in her eyes, ears or 
forehead whenever another individual uses Supernatural powers to actively spy on 
her, thus allowing her to end her conversation before giving away valuable secrets or 
hide whatever secret materials the hidden observer was after. The user also discovers 
the type of attempted surveillance - 
listening, watching, telepathic contact, etc. 
However, unlike Banish Big Brother, this ritual does not block these powers in any way, 
nor does it offer any clues about where they are coming from or the identity of the 
observer; it only alerts the character to their use. Likewise, this ritual does not protect 
against supernatural powers that do not directly spy on the user; for example, it will 
not detect a Nosferatu using Obfuscate to stand in the comer and listen to what is 
being said, because Obfuscate is not providing him with any information. However, 
CHAPTER TWO: TAKM UP THE FIGHT 
67 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


if he uses Heightened Senses to listen in on the conversation, the ritual functions 
normally. Likewise, this ritual won’t immediately detect a character employing 
Telepathy to send the recipient a message, but Telepathy attempting to plumb the 
user’s mind for information would be detected. Last but not least, it does not block 
conventional eavesdropping - 
if the ritualist is careless enough to let someone 
overhear or otherwise spy on him directly, that’s his own problem. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, particularly mighty elders or similarly powerful 
creatures may be immune to this ritual, though this should be rare and reserved for 
those who have specifically cultivated their talents at Supernatural surveillance, or 
else this ritual quickly loses its usefulness. 
Hell’s Calling 
Burning someone’s personal item when enacting this ritual causes that person to 
immediately succumb to Rotschreck, regardless ofwhether any flame is present and what 
the target was doing when the ritual was enacted. This ritual requires 30 minutes of time 
to perform and an iron brazier. In the past this ritual was used to humiliate enemies by 
forcing them to act like irrational lunatics and even break the resolve of opposition forces 
at a critical moment. This fear frenzy is identical to Rotschreck in nearly every way and 
can be warded off or controlled with the usual Willpower or Courage/Self-Control tests. 
If the target fails the test, he is seized by supernatural panic and runs away screaming, 
knockingdownanyoneinhispathwithoutgivingany 
indicationofwhat isterrifying him; 
however, the fear triggered by this ritual is not like normal Rotschreck in that the victim 
of Hell’s Calling can calm down immediately once away from the environment where the 
terror gripped him. Of course, the victim has no idea why he suddenly feared for his very 
unlife, which in itself can be bad enough for image-conscious elders. 
Ward Versus Vitae 
After anointing an object with a sigil drawn in the user’s own blood while chanting 
mystical words, this anarch-specific ritual wards against more powerful Cainites. This ritual 
is commonly used to protect the caster from the unwelcome intrusion of elder vampires, 
making it a shared defense of many communal Free Tremere havens. This is not a “Ward 
versus Kindred,” but rather a specific ward against those of more potent blood. It can be cast 
on any single object from dagger- to door-sized. It causes one Trait of lethal damage to any 
Kindred of lower generation than the caster who crosses the threshold of the doorway or 
touches the object. This damage bypasses armor and even other mystical protections. So if 
an eleventh-generation anarch inscribes the sigil on his haven door, Kindred of tenth or 
lower generation suffer the pain of breaking the ward. It is otherwise considered a normal 
ward, and lasts until the night after inscribing it. It can be used on all exits and entrances 
in aroom, including windows, provided the ritual is repeated for eachnew item or entrance. 
This ward cannot be “stacked” multiple times on a single item or entrance. 
HIGH 
LFVFL 
DISCI~LINFS 
Elders can be found among the ranks of the anarchs, fighting for the cause 
alongside the much larger number of younger Kindred. Much to the embarrassment 
and annoyance of other Kindred, elders who struggle for freedom and self-determi- 
nation brought with them some unexpected and unusual tactics of their own. These 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
68 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines provide a few tricks up the sleeves of the few elder anarchs, who are often 
underestimated by their peers in the established sects. Please see The Camarilla 
Guide, page 40, for experience point costs and generation requirements for high- 
level Disciplines. 
Master Presence 
Scourging the Instinct 
More common amid the firebrands and fanatics of the Anarch Revolt, this pc)werful 
use of charisma and the imposing personality of an elder enables her to stand before the 
assembled anarch packs and rally them into a crazed fervor, entering frenzy directed at the 
target of the elder’s ire. Those who succumb to the war cry of the firebrand have their Beasts 
called forth and are riding the wave of frenzy, oblivious to all but their instincts. By giving 
an appropriately inspirational speech and directing the anger of the group at a single target 
or group of targets, the elder makes a mass Social Test (retesting with hdmsi‘up). If 
successhl, the elder immediately causes as many Kindred as the elder has Social Traits to 
enter frenzy, regardless of the affected vampires’ Paths of Enlightenment. This frlmzy is 
almost identical to regular frenzy, with several notable exceptions. First, those under the 
sway of this Discipline will naturally target the “enemies” described by the elder and need 
not fear attacking each other in their rage, though other threats may temporarily draw their 
attention away from their target. Second, the affected vampires must continuously chant 
some slogan or other war cry given to the them by the elder in question for this Disc:ipline 
to work; failure to do so immediately ends this Discipline’s effects. While extremely 
unnervingtobehold,thewarcryalsomakesthesourceofthisDisciplineeasytotraceinmost 
instances, as many elders have used the same rallying cry over the centuries. Needless to say, 
this Discipline is generally considered too dangerous for modem use, as it is essentially a dire 
Masquerade breach in progress - 
a large pack of frenzying Kindred, even if inostly 
composed of neonates, can still cause carnage on an epic scale. 
Master Protean 
Turnabout 
Prerequisite: Elder Protean (Earth Control) 
While rarely seen in the last few centuries, a few elders still practice this Discipline, 
mostly to win approval from the impressionable neonates and more importantly save 
themselves when comered. Essentially a more potent version of the Earth C:on~rol 
Discipline, Turnabout requires two Blood Traits to activate. The elder sinks into the 
ground and instantly emerges behind or to the side of an enemy in her line of sight; the 
player decides exactly where her character intends to resurface, although the user 
cannot resurface directly under a person. If the character chooses, she may remain in 
the ground for a period of time, but then the vampire is using Earth Control instead of 
Turnabout. Turnabout’s focus is on dropping down into the ground and popping up in 
a more advantageous location, thereby catching an opponent by surprise. 
This Discipline grants the user an automatic Surprise attack against an oppo- 
nent, regardless of any Celerity, Auspexor other powers related to speed or supernatural 
perception the opponent may possess. Such is the nature of the Surprise that the 
target is considered at a three-Trait penalty to defend himselffrom the elder’s attacks. 
CHAPTER 
Two TANK UP THE FIGHI 
69 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Washing one’s hands of the conflict between 
the powerful and the powerless means to side with 
the powerful, not to be neutral. 
- 
Paulo Freire 
RFVOLUTIONRY 
NIGHT 
No other subculture of vampire society is as diverse as the Anarch Movement, 
and no other is as plagued by internal strife. One may safely assume that there exist 
as many different anarch ideologies as exist anarchs to profess them: A random 
sampling from any major metropolitan area is as likely to result in a room full of 
enemies as allies. When an anarch gives a rallying cry, she has a particular platform 
in mind and woe inevitably comes to those who deviate from her party line. Rare is 
the gang that remains together beyond the achievement of a single short-term goal 
unless held together by a powerful, charismatic leader. One issue after another 
becomes an irreconcilable point of division until the coterie tears itself to shreds in 
fratricidal violence. Revolutionaries and reactionaries struggle to remake society 
according to their dreams of a better world, even as the costs mount and the struggle 
costs them friends, resources or their very minds to the Beast within. 
Despite paranoid rumors to the contrary, no over-arching global organization of 
anarchs exists to direct worldwide rebellion against elder tyranny. Innumerable 
dissidents certainly dream of such solidarity but for every coalition-builder in the 
mix, there are twice as many fanatics who refuse to compromise their ideals or 
methods or twice as many opportunists with self-centered personal agendas. Indeed, 
most anarchs have definite ideas about “how the world should be” and consider all 
who disagree with them to be part of the problem, not the solution - 
and problems 
are for solving, not accommodating. When such firebrands call for unity, they are 
CHAPTER 
THEE: THE REBEL UNLIR 
71 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


actually calling for mass acceptance of their dogma. Few realize this and fewer still 
will admit it, but it remains true nonetheless. In practice, anarchs spend far more time 
fighting each other than fighting “the Man,” despite volumes of rhetoric to the 
contrary. They always have and, as most elders snidely assert, they always will. 
Yet despite this chaotic factionalism, somehow the ideals of the Anarch Revolt 
manage to stay alive, even gain ground from time to time, to the frustration and 
dismay of Camarilla manipulators and Sabbat tacticians alike. For what makes the 
anarchs so maddeningly difficult to organize also makes them virtually impossible to 
stamp out; indeed, the more pressure their enemies apply, the more popular these foes 
find the Movement becoming. Though they may become entangled in internal 
conflicts all too easily, the basic precepts of the Anarch Revolt are still simple and 
fundamental enough that they can be easily grasped by a wide variety of Kindred. 
Perhaps more importantly, they are stirring enough to fight for, a profound induce- 
ment indeed when considering the jaded hearts of the undead. 
MYTHSOFTHP 
MOVPMFNT 
Before one can begin a survey of the faces that make up the anarchs and their 
reasons for joining such adifficult cause, it is perhaps equally instructive to run through 
a list of common misconceptions and stereotypes that many vampires hold regarding 
these revolutionary undead. Most important of all, do not assume that rebellious 
behavior indicates sympathy for anarch goals. (This is particularly true regarding petty 
vandalism or similar acts of mindless violence.) An elder attempting to seize praxis is 
certainly a rebel - 
at least by the standards of his peers - 
and will be punished 
accordingly if he fails. He is not, however, an anarch, nor is he sympathetic to anarch 
goals. On the contrary, he might very well believe the current prince has been entirely 
too indulgent regarding the local revolutionaries and intend to “crack down” on them 
as soon as he becomes the new prince. If so, the anarchs would do well to keep the 
current prince on the throne unless the would-be ruler’s iron-fisted policies would 
ultimately result in a net gain of new recruits with valuable resources for the struggle. 
Similarly, a well-groomed neonate tagging an elder’s favorite gallery, museum or 
theater with obscene graffiti is apoor example of an anarch at best. She has no particular 
cause. She makes no particular artistic or political statement. She just enjoys the 
adolescent thrill of “being naughty” and knows her sire will shield her from any truly 
serious consequences. She has no particular beef with “the System” and believes anarchs 
in general are, at best, hopelessly impractical. She might occasionally hang out with the 
trendier “bad boys,” but she would roll on them in an instant to save her own ass. 
What about the stereotypical “young punks” who rumble in the Rack, bait the 
prince’s ghouls and keep the sheriff working overtime to preserve the Masquerade? 
Even such malcontents as these aren’t necessarily anarchs. “Young, dumb and full of 
attitude” accurately describes a lot of vampires on both sides of the political fence. 
That loud-mouthed oaf throwing his weight around might be the local gang leader, 
but he’s even more likely to be the local scourge or one of the sheriffs deputy bruisers 
taking a night off. After all, you have a lot more weight to throw around - 
and a lot 
more authority to throw it with - 
if you work for the Man. 
THE ANARCH GUIDL 
12 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Indeed, contrary to what many elders would have neonates believe, compara- 
tively few anarchs actually thug their way through life and those who do rarely last 
long. More often than not, their more socially responsible comrades quietly elimi- 
nate such loose cannons before their excesses provoke indiscriminate “final solutions” 
from infuriated princes. It’s just like military boot camp: If the entire platoon gets 
dropped for push-ups because one problem child caught the drill sergeant’s attention, 
it ain’t the drill sergeant who gets the blanket party. 
Last but certainly not least, dissatisfaction with the status quo is not the defining 
characteristic of an anarch. If it were, the elders would be right: every neonate less 
than half a century old would be an anarch. So would most neonates more than half 
a century old. So would most ancillae and quite a few elders. Dissatisfaction with the 
status quo is natural to anyone who isn’t king of as much of the hill as interests him, 
and very few vampires are satisfied with less than a mountain. However, exactly like 
the mortals they once were, the overwhelming majority of vampires struggle beneath 
the burden of a system they feel utterly powerless to change. The glass ceiling is crystal 
clear but is in no way weakened by its transparency. For all their deep dissatisfaction, 
they continue to grunt and grind their way through immortality by the rule:;. The 
defining characteristic of an anarch, then, is not thought but action. 
ANARCHDFMOGRAPHICS 
What follows is a cursory survey of anarchs as a whole - 
not who they are but 
what they are. Some stereotyping is unavoidable, but exceptions to the rules are 
always possible. By their very nature, anarchs do not fit neatly into pigeonholes. 
Absolutely none of these categories is anything more than incidental to a given 
anarch. What defines him as an anarch and differentiates him from others is what he 
believes and, within certain very broad generalizations, he might believe anything 
regardless of his age, generation or clan. 
ANARCH~RY 
AGF 
Most anarchs currently active were Embraced in the 20th century. The Anarch 
Movement is primarily a youth movement among the undead. Since the ultimate goal 
of the Movement is to seize power from the elders, it is only natural that very few 
elders dare to support it. The longer an anarch has spent as a vampire, the more of 
a rarity he is. Many die before passing the century mark, or worse still burn out and 
withdraw from the struggle, too worn down or embittered to continue. A rare few sell 
out to the Man and become the enemy, though these rarely survive the ire of their 
former comrades-in-arms, especially if they paid for their re-admittance with the 
blood of their old allies. Even the most dedicated anarchs often have a hard time 
watching what happens to their treasured philosophies: Ideas that were radical in 
their youth become merely liberal to the next generation, moderate to the generation 
after that and are positively conservative to mortals in the years that follow. Static 
creatures that they are, few vampires adapt well to political and social progress. Those 
few who do, however, become valuable assets to the Movement. 
CHAPKR THPJL: THE R E B ~  
UNLIR 
73 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


How sad, then, that such march elders are so seldom trusted by their far younger peers 
whofearthemasspies,ag~povaxtarorworse.Onone 
hand,theygenerallyhavethesawir 
faire to know what will and what won’t work in virtually any situation and the resouTces to 
bankroll grand operations. On the other, by this time they almost always have accumulated 
a long list of enemies as old and as powerful as they are, if not more so. Even those whose 
reputations are beyond reproach occasionally find it difficult to retain allies among the 
neonates for whom they fight, who look on them as “out of touch” with the ideals of the day 
or even as likely sell-outs to the sects. Not that there isn’t some truth to these fears -no one 
wants to serve as cannon fodder, and in a clash between elders, a neonate can be little else. 
ANARCHY 
BY GFNFRATION 
Given the relative “youth” of most anarchs, it comes as little surprise that they 
are generally more thin-blooded compared to their sect rivals: Neonates of the 
thirteenth, twelfth and eleventh generations are the rule. That does not mean no 
anarchs of lower generation exist, though the upper ranks of the anarchs entertain 
some curious habits when dealing with their high-generation comrades. One reason 
these elders fear their younger counterparts is diablerie, as many of them became 
“elders by blood” during the Great Revolt when they fell upon their sires. Originally 
they justified diablerie as an act of war against their oppressors; over half a 
millennium later, they now find themselves in much the same situation as their sires 
once did. They ponder the abuses and indignities that once drove them to such 
extremes, and fear their own childer might turn on them one day in similar fashion. 
After all, many modern anatchs still consider diablerie a fitting punishment in some 
instances, and while it is far from condoned by the Movement as a whole, it is not 
unheard of either. It is very foolish to assume a young anarch must be a weak anarch. 
In similar fashion to those vampires who have been with the anarchs for a long 
time, thoseknown tobeoflow generation-whetheras theresult ofdiablerieorsimply 
being Embraced by an elder sire - 
tend to attract a lot of unwelcome attention. For 
one thing, their peers in the other sects know precisely how dangerous those of strong 
blood are when they attain full command of their gifts, and thus will stop at nothing 
to deny such a potentially powerful asset to the rebellious neonates. And while their 
comrades may respect their raw power, they are often viewed with much the same 
suspicion as long-time members receive, as their fellow anarchs keep a close eye on 
them in case it looks like they may turn to the enemy. Thus, their presence in the 
Movement is something of a two-edged sword. Though powerful individually, their 
comrades aren’t likely to be as tough and therefore are less likely to survive the attacks 
meant to destroy them. And since they haven’t been around as long as a true elder, they 
often lack the influence and resources to protect themselves against such attacks in the 
first place. Small wonder, then, that these jinxes find allies few and far between. 
ANARCH~RY 
CLAN 
As perhaps befits their origins at the Convention of Thorns, the majority of 
anarchs trace their lineage back to one of the Camarilla’s founding clans. This is not 
to say that these are the only clans in evidence, of course - 
there are a number of 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
14 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Assamite, Ravnos, Setite and even a very small number of Lasombra anarchs out there 
as well. Even some of the rare bloodlines have found a place in the ranks of the 
revolutionaries, though none to such a degree that they have had a widespread impact 
on the Movement. Indeed, with the exception of the highly insular and vicious 
Tzimisce and Giovanni clans, which go out of their way to hunt down and destroy all 
of their blood who dare to join the anarchs, no clan or bloodline is truly safe from having 
rogue members. Some produce more than others, but any vampire can “go anarch” - 
and will when pushed far enough. The Movement is not a clan phenomenon, it is a 
vampire phenomenon. Every family has children who strain at the leash. 
Another common reason that causes neonates to spurn the traditional ways of 
their clans is, not surprisingly, too much pressure from their sires to be a proper little 
fill-in-the-blank in the first place. A Gangrel whose Brujah buddy taught him 
Celerity and Potence, for example, might think Fortitude and Protean are fair gifts to 
teach in return regardless of what some elder might have to say about the sanctity of 
“Ennoia’s Gift.” A Setite might think Sutekh‘s dark crusade to corrupt the world is 
sheer insanity and flee the cult at her first opportunity; Assamites might react the 
same way to Haqim’s jyhad. Any vampire from a clan known to manipulate its 
neonates more than others might decide “toeing the clan line” is a waste of time; the 
same goes for any neonate whose sire goes too far in trying to break her into accepting 
the cruel truths of undead society. Life as an anarch is rough, but at least it’s ji-ee. 
COMINGTOTHFMOVFMFNT 
ANARCHS 
BY CHOICE 
The overwhelming majority of anarchs come to the Movement of their own free will. 
For most, it was a simple choice: spend immortality at the table waiting for the master to toss 
you a bone, or smke out on your own. Self-respect is a powerful motivating force. Anarchs, 
for all their faults, at least live on their feet. They very rarely have much and what they do 
have, they had to fight claw and fang to get. They grouse a great deal about how the elders 
controlall the besthuntinggrounds, andhow they want to redistribute theresourcesofcities 
fairly, but this isn’t the true cause of their rebellion. In the end, when all the political and 
economic argument is over, the propagandists have run out of rhetoric and the time finally 
comes for absolute honesty - 
at that moment, it’s all about self-respect. 
Yes, most anarchs are quite young, but there are a few elders who are still in the 
fight and have been since the 14th century. There are even more ancillae who have 
been in it for a quite a while themselves. Yes, most anarchs are thin-bloods, but more 
than a few have drawn“c1oser to Caine”or have beenclose all along. Yes, there are some 
common clans involved, but in the end nearly every clan is represented in the 
Movement, even the stodgiest and most structured. Yes, the Camarilla is the obkious 
target and provides the greatest number ofrecruits, but even independent clans and the 
Sabbat can push their neonates too far. Given this evidence, even elders themselves 
occasionally repent of their crimes and join the Movement. So long as sects catering 
to elder power and privilege exist, there will always be anarchs to fight them. 
CHAPTER 
THREE: THE RIBEL UNLIFE 
75 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ANARCHSRY 
ACCIDFNT 
Some poor bastards end up in the Movement -at 
least at first - 
against their 
will. Perhaps a rival framed her for a fight in Elysium last month and she’s only two 
steps ahead of the sheriff. Perhaps she offended the wrong elder and now finds herself 
stripped of even her Acknowledged standing in the eyes of the prince. Perhaps she ran 
afoul of the scourge before she could even find the prince. Whatever her reason, she 
landed on the wrong side of the law, and she had nowhere else to go. 
It happens. In fact, it happens so often that it’s something of a joke among many 
who swear almost every anarch has a sob story about how the Man did him wrong. It 
definitely happens often enough for established anarchs to be wary of such converts, 
and rightly so. Most vampires on the run don’t consider themselves anarchs, and they 
go right back to the enemy when their particular problem is solved. Worse, some may 
even try to take along a former ally as proof of their repentance. 
Some do stay, however, not least because they find themselves in the company 
of others who can understand what happened to them and where they’re coming 
from. For all their many faults, anarchs still tend to be the most open and welcoming 
toward new recruits of all the sects, and especially for younger vampires who still 
remember their breathing days, this candor and camaraderie can be a welcome thing 
indeed. When they had nowhere else to go, the Movement took them in and treated 
them well-or at least better than theiroid“friends”0n theother sideofthepolitical 
fence. Such converts often prove the most loyal to and the most evangelical of the 
cause, rarely missing an opportunity to proselytize to other disaffected neonates who 
still believe elder propaganda about “those foolish anarchs.” 
ANARCHSRY 
MIRACLE 
There are two cases of “accidental anarchs” so special, they deserve individual 
attention. Both are so rare, they almost qualify as urban legends, but both have occurred 
on more than one occasion. The first case involves Sabbat refugees, while the second 
case concerns elders who become “enlightened” and join the Anarch Revolt. 
Sabbat Refugees 
Though the elders of the Sabbat certainly wish it were otherwise, the Vinculum 
is neither foolproof nor eternal. Nomadic packs seldom perform the Vaulderie with 
anyone outside their own circle, and weak Vinculums guarantee little in the way of sect 
loyalty. Even founded packs can’t be expected to have the bishop present for every 
observance, much less the archbishop. Without repeated observances, even the 
strongest bonds fade to insignificance. Herein lies the chance for a dissident to escape. 
Not every soldier in the Great Crusade is happy to have been drafted in the first 
place. Many have harbored dreams of desertion from that first night, and many more 
were loyal in the beginning but began to question their commitment after becoming 
more familiar with the sect. All they need is an opportunity, and the Sabbat’s love 
affair with violence often provides one. When a pack is wiped out during a siege and 
the survivors have little or no Vinculum to the bishop in command, they might think 
THE ANARCH 
&ID[ 
76 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


twice before returning to headquarters. After all, they already know they’ll just be 
assigned to another pack and sent back to the front. 
Under those circumstances, many flee the Sabbat and never look back, if for no 
other reason than the fear that a Wild Hunt might be gaining on them (and one 
usually is). They can’t take refuge in the Camarilla - 
not that any would wanlr to - 
and they can’t go it alone, so they end up with the one group of vampires who also 
commonly travel in “packs” and are usually damned good fighters: anarchs. Of 
course, their new allies are profoundly suspicious of them at first, and justifiably 
concerned about exactly who might be coming to reclaim them, but they brinz with 
them info and rare Disciplines too useful to be turned away. In time, the refugees 
overcome the initial suspicions and prove themselves trustworthy. It is from such 
converts as these that most “normal” anarchs learn that the elders of the Sabbat are 
no better than those of the Camarilla. 
Enlightened Elders 
Sometimes, the propaganda actually works. Whether they were som’ewhat 
sympathetic to the cause in the first place, converted purely by argument or rnoved 
by the nobility of an anarch‘s personal sacrifice, some elders “see the light” and realize 
the Movement makes a number of valid points. Of course, realizing that your enemy 
is the “good guy” is one thing; actually joining his side is quite another. Very few 
elders are willing to openly cross that line even if they have come to believe they 
should- doing so would mean breaking the ties that have bound them for cenruries, 
and that is not an action to take lightly. But some do, and they can make all the 
difference in the world. 
When neonates and ancillae switch sides, they face suspicion. When Sabbat 
refugees switch sides, they face suspicion and considerable anxiety at the thought of 
the direct danger that often dogs their heels. When elders of any sect switch sides, 
however, they face utter disbelief. Sure, many propagandists have called for the elders 
to surrender power peacefully - 
that’s a standard and almost gratuitous lme of 
rhetoric in the speeches of emissaries and rabble-rousers worldwide. But it isn’t long 
before even the most optimistic recruiters generally abandon the idea of an elder 
actually doing it, so when it happens it must be a trick, some kind of ploy to set the 
anarchs up for a larger fall. Only a fool or a madman would trust someone willing to 
give away centuries of progress and achievement, nght? 
Wrong. Though certainly not all conversions have been genuine, occasionally 
one is for real, and every time it happens the revolution takes one giant step toward 
eventual victory. The sheer influence that such an elder brings with him staggers the 
imagination. Vampires are creatures of habit, elders most of all, and aconvertecl elder 
can still claim prestation over those who owe him boons. You can accumulate a lot 
of boons in 700 years. Imagine an entire coterie of anarchs facing a blood hum: from 
an irate prince, then mysteriously being banished from his city instead. Why? Simple. 
That prince is the elder’s grandchilde, and their benefactor just collected on a boon 
from 1637. Enlightened elders seldom get “in the trenches” - 
that just wouldn’t be 
proper, you see - 
but they serve in other more valuable ways, and those who come 
to trust them are grateful indeed for the aid they can offer. 
CHAFERTHREE: 
THE REBEL UNLIR 
11 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


POLITICAL 
IMPULSFS 
IDEOLOGY 
AND MFTHODOLOGY 
Two of the most fundamental questions in modern political theory are “HOW do 
we strike the proper balance between securing individual liberty on one hand and 
securing social order on the other?” and “What is the most efficient and moral way to 
accomplish social change?” Most vampires, however, see only the extremes of this 
debate - 
on the one side is the Camarilla, which quite obviously values social order 
above individual liberty. On the other side, the Sabbat just as clearly values individual 
liberty above social order, to the point of permitting a certain amount of divisive 
feuding rather than laying down law from above. While exceptional territories may see 
things differently, as a rule vampires can expect the same thing in every territory ruled 
by the major sects - 
the only difference is in the degree to which it is enforced. 
By contrast, the Anarch Revolt occupies the proverbial middle ground between 
the two sects. It does not do this by representing a single moderate viewpoint, 
however, nor do its members follow a uniform policy regarding acceptable forms of 
resistance to the status quo. Indeed, to their sectarian counterparts, “typical” anarch 
ideology is a study in apparent contrasts: Most anarchs share the Sabbat’s desire for 
vampires to be free from elder rule, but also see merit in the Camarilla’s design for 
maintaining an overall social order and avoiding a second Inquisition. Capable of 
embracing what they like from both sects while rejecting those parts they find 
repellent, as well as injecting an amount of mortal political thought or their own ideas 
into the mix, the anarchs take great pride in finding a better way to govern 
themselves. Perhaps the greatest gift the Movement allows its anarchs is the freedom 
to explore issues of governance for themselves, gaining glory or suffering the 
consequences as appropriate to the particular social experiment they endorse. 
What follows, then, is an overview of the ideological spectrum found within the 
Movement, from the subtle aid and encouragement of the loyal opposition within 
the Camarilla to the mindless violence of the nihilists who exist simply to bring chaos 
and disorder to Kindred and kine alike. While these summaries represent a good 
sampling of the political impulses observed among the anarchs, it should be 
remembered that they are far from all-inclusive: A hardcore nihilist may still cling 
to a few shreds of constructionist hopes, for instance. Likewise, they are not overtly 
recognized among the ranks of the Movement - 
one does not walk up to another 
anarch and ask “Are you a Reformer?” any more than one would ask “What’s your 
Nature?” While some political scholars and philosophers could in fact identify these 
ideologies at work, they are not common lingo among the anarchs themselves. 
It should also be noted that these impulses are largely predicated on opposition 
to the Camarilla and/or furthering the goals of the anarchs themselves. While the 
Sabbat is certainly a concern for the anarchs, only the most irrational vampires hold 
any hope of persuading the Sabbat to change its ways short of destroying the sect 
entirely. Individual Sons and Daughters of Caine may be targeted for recruitment by 
anarch advocates, but as a whole the fanatical devotion of the sect and its fundamen- 
THE ANARCH 
G~IDE 
18 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


talist faith in the sincerity of its mission mean that few anarchs waste any time 
preaching to the Sword ofCaine. At least with the Camarilla, there’ssome hope they 
will listen to reason - 
with the Sabbat, the best one can hope for is to escape before 
the zealots decide to do some recruiting of their own.. . . 
THF LOYAL 
OPPOSITION 
These factions represent the liberal extremes of acceptable thought and tlehav- 
ior in the Camarilla. Very few of these factions consider themselves to be “an,xchs” 
in any sense of the term, though they may well be labeled as such by their peers. Some 
continue to support these positions even if forced outside the Camarilla mainstream, 
supporting the ideals of their estranged sect even if it has rejected them, while 13thers 
do their best to remain “in the belly of the beast” where they feel they can do more 
good. Of all the anarch impulses, these three are the most likely to find themselves 
forced into the arms of the Movement not because they wish to join, but because they 
are kicked out of the sect by those who fear their ideas. All of these types prefer to 
work within the letter of Camarilla law when possible, but are quite willing to bend 
the spirit of that law when necessary to achieve results. Such is politics, after all. 
C~YM~ATHIZFRS 
Sympathizers are Camarilla loyalists who wholeheartedly support the sect in 
theory, but hold many strong reservations regarding the abuses of the c L,y stem 
common among so many of its elders. Most are young elders themselves. They will 
support a just prince. However, they typically view that prince as “first among equals” 
and believe a very strong primogen council should check his power. They actively 
oppose any prince who exercises his royal authority too often or too strongly, and they 
sympathize with ancillae and neonates who suffer beneath such despotism (hence 
the term defining them). 
Sympathizers are not true anarchs, though their reactionary peers might label 
them as such. They generally react to an arrogant prince by quietly leveraging him 
from the throne and installing a more lenient successor. They believe the Camarilla 
is a viable sect so long as elders wield their influence with wisdom and a reasonable 
degree of noblesse oblige. Their attitude toward ancillae and neonates remains one of 
paternal condescension. While they agree with anarchs on many issues, sympa1:hizers 
believe these angry and dreadfully ill-mannered young rebels present their case very 
poorly indeed. Believing the system works when vampires make it work, they 
condemn the actions of anarchs who resort to violence and consider such hoclligans 
to be little better than spoiled brats throwing temper tantrums. 
Sympathizers work almost exclusively through prestation, calling in the odd 
favor here and there in order to achieve a personal goal. They will occasionally use 
their considerable influence in a way that benefits a local anarch, but only rarely will 
they do so in a way that establishes an actual link between them. Any who boasted 
of having received such assistance would surely never receive similar help in the 
future. Sympathizers, though liberal-minded, are elders nonetheless. They take 
propriety very seriously. 
CHAPERTHREE: 
THE REBEL UNLIFI 
79 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


REFORMERS 
Reformers are loyalists who still grudgingly support the Camarilla in theory but 
object to its anachronistic structure in practice. Most are very young elders or older 
ancillae who suffer a prince to rule over them only as a figurehead. They chafe at the 
very thought of so much power vested in a single individual. True power, they ardently 
assert, should rest in the primogen council. Many would prefer to see the office ofprince 
eliminated entirely but realize the tactical necessity of a single executive decision- 
maker. Some have even gone so far as to claim primogen should be elected by their 
clans, and princes should be elected likewise by the primogen council. 
Reformers insist they have the best interests of the sect in mind. Times and ways have 
changed, they argue, so the sect must change with them if it is to survive. They believe the 
Camarilla can avoid eventual dissolution only if the elders peacefully surrender their 
monopolyonpower. Likesympathizers, mostreformersdonotconsider themselves anarchs, 
but many elders find reformers rather subversive; even sympathizers regard them as liberal 
since reformers seldom echo the condemnation of violent resistance quite as loudly or as 
often as their more conservative peers. If their efforts are particularly successful at upsetting 
the local order, they may find themselves labeled as anarchs and disowned by the Camarilla. 
Reformers are careful to distance themselves from self-avowed anarchs in public 
lest their critics tar them with the same brush. In private, however, most reformers 
tolerate and occasionally actively support anarchs so long as the latter refrain from 
pressing their extremist points of view. Like sympathizers, reformers prefer to work 
through prestation and other connections to achieve their goals. They are less likely 
to conceal their motives, however, since they are already known for “rocking the boat,” 
and they are fur more likely to broker the occasional “shady deal” when more honest 
means fail. For reformers, propriety occasionally takes a back seat to practicality. 
CONSTRUCTIONISTC~ 
Constructionists are the first of many who bear the label “anarch” whether they 
accept it or not. They are primarily (though not exclusively) composed of ancillae 
who have lost faith in the Camarilla and rare older neonates who never had any in 
the first place. Believing the sect is doomed to collapse from the weight of its own 
stagnation, they wish to not only construct a viable alternative but actually have it 
in place and ready to assume control when the inevitable finally occurs. Construc- 
tionists avoid open conflict with elders, but defend themselves aggressively when 
they have no other option. For the most part, they maintain a very low profile, 
working on their theories and quietly recruiting others to support their vision. 
Constructionists are old enough to have amassed a respectable amount of power 
for themselves and they see no reason to risk their hard-won gains in aviolent rebellion. 
They do not think of themselves as anarchs. They are more evolutionary than 
revolutionary, but elders dismiss them as anarchs anyway. Constructionists envision a 
wide variety of alternative systems, but most agree that a loose confederation of city- 
states ruled by representative councils would best meet the needs of future generations. 
The only substantive difference between reformers and constructionists is the 
latter’s rejection of a single unifying authority (that is, the Inner Circle and its 
justicars). Otherwise, they are virtually identical in ideals and methods. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
80 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THF DISLOYAL 
OPPO~ITION 
These factions represent the true heart and soul of the Anarch Movement. They are 
the first to espouse beliefs truly and unequivocally outside the accepted norm and, as a 
result, the first to suffer active opposition from the elders. In turn, they are the first to call 
themselves “anarchs” and the first to resort to methods of revolt beyond Camarilla “law.” 
Reformers or constructionists might be forced into the Movement simply because no one 
else will listen to them, but members who adhere to these impulses embrace their 
oppositional stance from the very beginning. Loyalists are trying to save the Camarilla 
from itself or replace it with a similar structure, while the Disloyalists have forsaken the 
Camarilla and anything like it in favor of seeking something else entirely. While the 
Movement would suffer without the actions of the Loyal Opposition to support its efforts 
from time to time, without these impulses it might very well cease to exist. 
 RADICAL^ 
Radicals, as a group, espouse beliefs so far outside the accepted vampiric norm 
that many elders consider them utterly mad. Most radicals are neonates who rejpect 
only individual achievement regardless of age, generation or clan. To them, age 
doesn’t always grant wisdom, generation only defines the limits of superna tural 
potency and clan is merely a sociological distinction about as meaningful (or 
meaningless) as handedness, hair color or musical taste. Some radicals even go .So far 
as to renounce any clan affiliation, becoming self-declared Caitiff. 
Radicals have a more “universalist” view than their militant comrades. Whereas 
militants are usually concerned only with their home areas, radicals who succes:;fully 
liberate one city often forego the boring process of consolidating their hold on power 
in order to export the revolution to neighboring cities. While they aren’t so foolish 
as to disavow violence altogether, radicals prefer to use nonviolent methods of 
spreading their ideas whenever possible, believing that in the long term such efforts 
have a much greater potential payoff than violence. Devotion to the struggle is their 
paramount concern, not government or military action. This impulse provides the 
Movement with many of its most gifted political thinkers but very few tacticians, 
though they make fierce (if not particularly efficient) front line fighters when called 
upon. Radicals occasionally win the war only to lose the peace. 
Generally the youngest of anarchs, radicals are by far the most idealistic. Many 
were activists and firebrands as mortals and simply brought their politics with them 
into undeath. Unfazed by the Embrace, they struggle to reshape vampire society 
along socialist, communist, anarchist or other political lines. Believing the Camarilla 
to be teetering on the brink of dissolution, they dedicate themselves to pushing it 
over the edge by any means necessary. Given opportunity, they eagerly exploit 
political circumstances to their benefit. Lacking opportunity, they create it by 
stirring up the populace. Despite their relative youth, they are a force to fear. 
MILITANT5 
As their name implies, militants are strident in their opposition to elder rule. 
Most are neonates and very young ancillae. Like the constructionists, they believe 
the Camarilla will self-destruct. Unlike the constructionists, they see no reason to 
CHAPTERTHREE: 
THE RIBEL UNLIR 
81 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


wait for that to happen on its own. Accordingly, militants seek to undermine the sect 
at every available opportunity, destabilizing individual domains in the hope of 
fomenting local rebellion. Despite rumors to the contrary, however, the name refers 
only to their level of devotion and desire to take direct action - 
not all militants 
employ or even endorse violence and sabotage to achieve their goals. What defines 
a militant is not a need to use force to solve problems, but the idea that some decisive 
action must be taken, and that such actions ultimately lie outside the scope of 
Camarilla law. This is also where their paths diverge from their radical comrades - 
while militants appreciate and often endorse a great deal of anarch ideology, they see 
direct action as the only way to achieve lasting results. Speeches may make converts, 
but victories make territories. 
Militants generally support the idea of independent city-states ruled by repre- 
sentative councils, but see no reason to unify these city-states via a larger confederation 
as many radicals propose. Each city-state, they argue, should be free to deal with 
others as it chooses based on individual inclination as well as the hard truths of 
political, military or economic need. Each territory should be sovereign in all 
respects, its internal affairs considered sacrosanct against foreign interference, and 
empowered to resist those enemies who violate its sovereignty. 
Militants expect aggression from elders for their resolute stance, and are almost 
always ready to defend themselves and their communities with deadly force. They 
recognize full well that compromise isn’t an option since there is no place in the 
Camarilla for them to occupy, and fight accordingly. Unlike constructionists, who 
will generally peaceably cede their land rather than fight newcomers bent on 
conflict, militants do not turn the other cheek when something threatens their new 
utopia. Elders who represent a clear and present danger to a militant community, or 
a significant obstacle to establishing one, might return to their havens one night to 
find a heavily armed strike team waiting for them. 
HARDLINFRS 
Hardliners are anarchs who have suffered greatly at the hands of sires, of sheriffs, 
of scourges, of princes. Hurt, bitter, filled with rage, they want to repay pain with 
agony. Like many other anarchs, hardliners believe the Camarilla is on its last legs 
and they want to be the ones who finally bring down the great beast for good. They 
welcome violent confrontation on almost any terms, as means to prove their 
devotion if not always to win battles. Unlike militants, they generally lack the 
patience to wait while the propagandists win the hearts and minds of the general 
populace. They want their revolution, and they want it now, damn it! 
Hardliners don’t just want to put the Camarilla on its knees; they want to kick it 
while it’sdown. They want to keep on kicking it until it begsfor mercy. Hardliners want 
the elders to suffer all the misery and degradation that has been their lot. For many of 
them, the struggle has nothing to do with making a better world. It’s all about getting 
even with those who wronged them. No more, no less. They might claim otherwise to 
their less embittered comrades - 
they might even believe that lie themselves - 
but 
the sad truth is that they are more interested in revenge than justice. 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
82 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Consequently, hardliners aren’t particularly concerned with complex ideologies 
and few give any thought to “what comes after.” All they truly care about is taking 
the fight to the enemy and they aren’t particularly picky when choosing allies. .4 
rare 
few will cooperate with anyone if it means bringing down a hated elder. If the gang 
that helped torch the bastard’s haven turned out to actually be a Sabbat pack, well, 
so what? The elder is dead; that’s all that matters. What revolutionary ideals they 
once held may not be forgotten, but they are distant at best - 
useful perhaps as a 
rallying cry, but not particularly important beyond a few bitter memories. 
THF ANARCH 
FRINGF 
These factions represent something of the dark underbelly of the Anarch 
Movement. While most of these groups are not truly connected to the Cause in any 
way, they are often equated with it by other vampires, and that makes them 
something of a concern to the anarchs whether they like it or not. This is not to say 
that anarchs don’t occasionally find these groups useful or even outright ally with 
them from time to time, just that as a whole anarch leaders do not consider them true 
parts of the Movement. Indeed, dealing with these groups often presents something 
of a conflict to the anarchs involved: On the one hand, these groups are committed 
to personal freedom and self-determination outside the sects, but at the same time 
none are committed to any noble struggle for liberty and justice. 
A UTARCHS ( AUTARKI’S) 
Autarchs have a single political belief: they don’t do politics. They keep to 
themselves, manage their own affairs and expect other vampires to do the same. They 
avoid the company of other vampires lest they find themselves drawn into conflict 
of one form or another. Depending on the autarch in question, calling one an anarch 
may even be considered fighting words - 
these loners left everything behind to 
avoid labels and social cliques, and aren’t too happy to have some punk try to do what 
pressure from an entire sect couldn’t manage. While they may throw in with the 
anarchs from time to time out of common cause or mutual defense, that is about the 
extent of their involvement, and they like to keep it that way. Those who mistake 
an autarch‘s presence as indicative of some desire to join the Movement seldom make 
the same mistake twice, one way or another. 
At best, autarchs maintain strict neutrality, and deal with other vampires fairly 
if a bit distantly when the need requires. At worst, they feel little but contempt for 
the Camarilla, the Sabbat and the Anarch Revolt alike, and take pleasure in showing 
such foolish vampires the error of their ways, painfully if necessary. Some aui-archs 
are quite young and hope to get older by not getting involved in politics, while some 
are far older than the sects they disdain, and so powerful that ignoring them and being 
ignored in return has become the best option to continue with their arcane personal 
agendas. In either event, when they assume residence in a Camarilla domain, they 
seldom make more than a token appearance in front of the prince before disappearing 
into the city or the outlying regions. Every autarch carries an aura of mystery and most 
like it that way, to keep potential foes off guard if nothing else. 
CHA~ER 
THREE THE ksit UNLIR 
83 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


For their part, few anarchs know what to make of autarchs. On one hand, autarchs 
are just doing what they want to do and it’s almost impossible for an anarch to criticize 
that impulse without coming off like a total hypocrite. At the same time, many anarchs 
believe you’re either part of the problem or part of the solution, and autarch apathy is 
definitely seen as part of the problem. Thus, while few actually disk autarchs, few spare 
them much sympathy either. While they may work together when the need requires, 
both sides know better than to expect any lasting support. 
MFRCFNARIFS 
Mercenaries, like autarchs, care nothing for either sect or the anarchs who seek to 
bring those sects down. Unlike autarchs, they readily involve themselves in political 
conflicts even though they have no political motives of their own, for the sake of a 
paycheck. Some uphold a rough code of honor, but most will sell their services to the 
highest bidder. However, unlike some mortal mercenaries, they rarely switch alle- 
giances once hired-doing 
so is aquick way to bring downall manner of unpleasantness 
among the Kindred. So long as their fees are paid in a timely manner, they serve their 
employers faithfully. Mercenaries enjoy a strange dual status among vampires. Both 
elders and anarchs look down on them as social parasites but value them for their 
usefulness. They are seldom truly respected but often feared for their prowess. 
Mercenaries, though not themselves interested in politics, are the source of 
considerable debate with those who are. Pragmatic militants and radicals see nothing 
wrong with bolstering battlefield strength with soldiers offortune, or consider doing so 
their only viable option given the strength of local opposition forces. Their more far- 
sighted - 
or more fanatical - 
peers may even believe all “liberation forces” should 
consist exclusively of volunteers recruited from among “the People.” What good is a 
military victory, they ask, if the people for whom you fought views you as the enemy? 
Round and round the debate goes, seemingly without end. For their part, mercenaries 
simply don’t care. Conflict is business and, in the Movement, business is good. 
NIHILISTS 
Nihilists are the black sheep of the anarch flock. Almost without exception, 
they are brutal misfits less than thirty years undead who resent any limitations to their 
personal freedom. They revel in their supernatural powers and usually have little or 
no concern for mortals. Their agenda, as far as they can honestly be said to have one, 
seems to be “party, party, party.” They don’t so much oppose elder rule as they oppose 
the rule of whatever specific elder comes between them and their fun. 
Nihilists are motivated by self-interest far more than any noble political 
ideology. Most were criminals or problem children as mortals and simply continue 
their antisocial activity as vampires. Although they are a minority faction in the 
Movement, they call the most attention to themselves by their outrageous behavior. 
As far as the rank and file of the Camarilla is concerned, all anarchs are nihilists. As 
a result, nihilists find themselves fighting other anarchs as often and as savagely as 
they fight princes, sheriffs or scourges. Indeed, some anarchs make it their personal 
crusade to purge these hellions from the ranks of the Movement, and take every 
chance they can to destroy these immature undead at every turn. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
84 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Rude, crude and arrogant, nihilists care little for the revolution. They feel no 
sense of solidarity and actively oppose any who would restrain them in any way. Brute 
force is all they respect. The rare few who do not die violently within adecade of their 
Embrace almost always join the Sabbat. Indeed, there is often precious little to 
distinguish nihilist gangs from Sabbat packs other than an absence of the Vaulderie. 
All that stands between many nihilist gangs and the Sword of Caine is a cha1ic:e and 
a sermon. 
ANARCH 
IDEALS 
To best understand what anarchs believe, one must first present the pivotal heliefs 
espoused by the Camarilla and the Sabbat and then consider the typical anarch 
response to those beliefs. It should be understood, however, that as with many rhings 
this generalization of a “typical” anarch response is just that: a generalization. Ariarchs 
may have widely different opinions and interpretations of these concepts beirween 
differing factions and even different individuals within the same faction, depending on 
their own personal histories and experiences. Accordingly, readers are advised to take 
these summaries with a grain of salt before assuming that any particular anarch holds 
the same opinions as expressed here. When especially relevant, particular factional 
objections or interpretations have been described below. 
THF CAMARILLA 
As the undeniably dominant sect of vampire society, the Camarilla embodies 
the very system anarchs strive to change. Thus, as the “laws” of that sect, the Six 
Traditions and the manner in which elders interpret and enforce them inspire the 
greatest amount of dissident thought. 
THE 
FIRST TRADITION: 
MASQUERADE 
Only the most foolish or fanatical vampires deny the wisdom of hiding their very 
existence from the teeming masses of humanity. Accordingly, almost no anarch 
objects to the Masquerade as a general theory. Instead, they find fault in its most 
common application and enforcement. Considering the sophistication of modern 
forensic science and the astounding speed with which it advances, the policy of 
hiding the existence of all vampires from mortals strikes most as nothing short of 
patently absurd. Sooner or later, they believe, irreversible discovery by a government 
agency is unavoidable. 
Faced with the manifest impossibility of the Masquerade as an absolute secret, 
some radicals propose a revolutionary but pragmatic solution: actively enlisting 
mortal aid. Selective revelation to key mortals, they argue, creates a safety net of 
informed agents who hide vampires from mass discovery far better than they alone 
can hide themselves. Properly administered and applied on a global scale, such an 
enlightened policy would pave the way for social acceptance of the undead when the 
Masquerade completely collapses. (And it will collapse, these same theorists insist; 
to them, failing to plan for that night is criminal stupidity.) 
CHAPTER 
THREE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
a5 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Most elders consider this approach utterly insane and ruthlessly exterminate all 
anarchs who put it into practice at any level. In their experience, the Masquerade as an 
absolute secret is all that saved them from the fires of the Inquisition and all that stands 
between them and a second fiery holocaust. That secret must be kept at all costs. Mortals 
- 
any and all mortals -must remain ignorant of the monsters in their midst. Any vampire 
who reveals the truth, whether by accident or design, must die as a lesson to others. 
Elders enforce this “zero tolerance” policy so zealously that mere suspicion of 
violation is enough to send most anarchs to greet the sun, as well as guarantee the 
death of their mortal associates. Better to be safe, the elders claim, than sorry. This, 
according to the elders, is the wisdom of ages. This, according to the visionaries, is 
the folly of inflexibility. Unable to adapt to the changing world, the elders cling 
ferociously to tradition and thereby steer a direct course to what many radicals 
consider an easily avoided doom. Ruthlessly executing those suspected of selective 
revelation only makes matters worse. 
On the other hand, anarchs themselves are just as brutal when handling what 
they consider serious breaches of the Masquerade. Training a core group of trusted 
retainers to help maintain the illusion of normalcy is acceptable. Telling the entire 
downtown party posse at a favorite club is not. Careless or casual displays of 
supernatural power are out of the question. Real anarchs are many things, but stupid 
isn’t on the list, and wantonly spreading such dangerous information is as serious to 
them as it is to the enemy. They understand and help conceal the occasional honest 
mistake, but a cavalier attitude toward the Big Secret is a guaranteed way to make 
enemies. Making enemies is a guaranteed way to mysteriously disappear. What 
prince will even care about amissing anarch, let alone waste valuable resources trying 
to find him? And if word on the street has it the missing moron broke the Masquerade 
prior to his disappearance, perhaps it is best for all concerned that he remainmissing. 
THF 
~ F C O N D  TRADITION: 
DOMAIN 
Disagreement over the Second Tradition is perhaps the most fundamental issue 
of the Anarch Revolt, with the possible exception of the Fifth (see below). Again, 
it is a matter of theory versus application. To anarchs, a claim of domain over your 
haven makes perfect sense. A prince’s claim of domain over an entire metropolis with 
a million or more mortal inhabitants makes absolutely no sense at all. 
Elders who were Embraced during the Middle Ages might be comfortable with 
feudalism, but few vampires Embraced within the last three centuries truly agree with 
the practice. The notion of “natural rights” is too much apart of their thinking, and one 
of those rights is the right to your own property, not just to hold land as a fief granted 
by one’s liege lord. Reformers, constructionists and militants are the foremost propo- 
nents of liberal politics in vampire society. They prefer to divide a metropolis equitably 
among its residents so that each resident has, if not a totally equitable share, at least 
enough room to rest and feed in safety without imposing on another’s territory. 
Of course, many radicals reject this solution as being little better than the 
feudalism it replaces. There is no way to divide ametropolis equitably, they argue. Try 
as you might, someone always receives a domain clearly inferior to the domains ofhis 
THE ANARCH hlDL 
86 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


neighbors. Also, a one-time division makes no allowance for changes in the resident 
population. How should the current population accommodate new residents who 
arrive after the initial division of the city? And most importantly, individual domains 
present a difficult challenge to the Masquerade. If the same vampire hunts in the 
same part of the city over the course of several decades, her true nature will inevitably 
be revealed by an accumulation of evidence linking her to bizarre incidents and 
occasional assaults. To protect the Masquerade, residents must violate each other’s 
domains. Clearly, radicals conclude, private domains are a threat to individual liberty 
because they create the conditions of inequity whence arises violence between the 
haves and the have-nots. 
Liberals believe that free trade between property owners ultimately redresses 
such problems, but radicals contend that free trade only results in the concentration 
of more and more property in the hands of ever fewer owners. You cannot safeguard 
individual liberty, they claim, by increasing the inequities that cause violence 
between individuals. Accordingly, radicals establish collective domains wherein 
most of the city is considered the common property of all. Individuals are free to hunt 
within these “public reserves” so long as they keep the Masquerade. 
The practice has so far met with only limited success in the smallest anarch 
communities. In the larger communities, nihilist gangs often claim turf and refuse 
hunting privileges to non-members unless paid some outlandish “tribute.” Sadly 
enough, disputes of this nature are almost always resolved violently. 
THE THIRD 
TRADITION: 
PROGENY 
Among anarchs, popular opinion holds that elders restrict the siring of progeny 
to maintain their grip on the reins of power. They only allow the Embrace of chlilder 
who can be counted on to be good little fledglings and toe the party line. Since the 
privilege of siring is so rarely doled out, and vampires Embraced without a prince’s 
official sanction are destroyed along with their sires, the younger generations cannot 
grow numerous enough to pose a significant threat to the elders who oppress them. 
Needless to say, anarchs oppose this policy as a violation of a natural right. Like 
mortal procreation, they see vampiric siring as an inalienable vampiric right. 
The problem is that things aren’t quite that simple. Sure, elders want to prevent 
a surge in the neonate population. Sure, they want to ensure the loyalty of the neonates 
whose Embrace they permit. However, there’s more to the matter than protecting their 
hegemony. Cities are crowded enough already. Every new vampire is one more 
competitor for prey. W h y  create competition for the limited resources that vampires 
already fight so savagely over? If everyone were allowed to Embrace on a whim, the 
resulting overpopulation would wreck the Masquerade and thereby condemn the 
entire vampiric race to extinction. Where would the Anarch Movement be then? 
Most older anarchs realize this. In practice, comparatively few sire progeny with 
such callous disregard for the Big Picture. Unfortunately for the responsible majority, 
it only takes a single bad apple to spoil the bunch, and when it comes to such an 
apparently obvious “right” as siring even well-meaning anarchs can make terrible 
mistakes. The youngest and angriest can’t see past the ends of their attitudes. More 
CHAFER THREE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
81 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


often than not, their sires weren’t the best judges of potential childer and neither are 
they. Nihilists are the worst offenders; some will Embrace a mortal who just served 
as dinner for no other reason than “the dude put up a damned good fight.” 
The situation is serious and grows worse with each passing night. Something 
must be done soon, but anarch leaders have severely limited options. Strict enforce- 
ment of this Tradition is out of the question (the popular uproar would be deafening 
- 
and deadly). Both liberals and radicals struggle to indoctrinate their peers with a 
sense of social responsibility and a solid grasp of basic food chain economics, but this 
is astopgap measure at best. Many in the Movement are justifiablyworried. If anarchs 
can’t resolve this issue, it will get completely out of hand - 
and either the elders or, 
worse, the humans will solve it for them. 
THE FOURTH 
TRADITION: 
ACCOUNTING 
This Tradition also directly contradicts a fundamental belief shared by almost 
all anarchs: just as every individual is free, every individual is responsible for what he 
does with his freedom. It is the epitome of injustice to punish one vampire for the 
actions of another unless coercion can be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. 
Anarchs seldom punish a sire for the behavior of his childe. They punish the childe 
instead. A vampire who habitually sires problematic progeny, however, is an entirely 
different matter. One or two dangerous childer represent honest mistakes. Five or six 
represent criminal negligence, and anarchs punish such negligence accordingly. In 
all cases, sires are expected to help apprehend wayward childer and hand them over 
for punishment. 
Additionally, anarchs do not release their childer into vampire society, much 
less command them in all things. Too many experienced long years of servitude spent 
indentured to their own sires to ever put their childer through such nonsense. They 
teach their childer, of course, and the wisest and most responsible sires teach their 
childer well, but they do not treat their childer like servants. Many Embrace only 
mortal friends, allies and retainers to whom they’ve already taught the basics. 
THE FIFTH 
TRADITION: 
HOSPITALITY 
Despite accusations to the contrary, anarchs understand manners. They don’t 
barge into each other’s havens uninvited and they conduct themselves with reason- 
able decorum while staying under another’s roof. That’s just common courtesy. 
Presenting themselves to aprince whenever they go from city to city is ridiculous and 
few do so unless they truly fear the scourge. Again, it is an issue of natural rights (in 
this case, the right to move from place to place without undue hindrance). That, 
however, is actually a relatively minor point of contention. The part that truly 
offends all anarchs is the line about being nothing without the word of acceptance. 
Why? Simple. No prince is obligated to grant his “word of acceptance” to anyone. He 
has the power to confirm or deny a vampire’s legal existence on a whim, and there 
exists no law to secure natural rights against misuse of that authority. This Tradition 
asserts that vampires have no rights at all, merely privileges, and they have only such 
privileges as the prince chooses to grant. It’s a prime example of medieval thinking 
from medieval minds, and anarchs don’t like it. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
88 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THF SIXTH 
TRADITION: 
DESTRUCTION 
Anarch attitudes toward this Tradition are characterized by extreme cynicism. 
With the Third Tradition, elders reserve the authority to bring new vampires into 
the world. With the Sixth, they reserve the authority to take vampires out of the 
world. Many doubt elders ever concern themselves much with the departed since, as 
the saying goes, they can make many more just like the ones they destroyed. If the 
prince gives the word, that’s it - 
no appeal, no second chance, just destruction. It’s 
all far too arbitrary for anarchs because few princes ever bother to truly invesirigate 
the crimes for which they so often call blood hunts. A rumor here, an innuendo there 
and suddenly the entire city is on your case. If you’re lucky, you manage to get out of 
town before the sheriff tracks you down. If not, well, it was nice knowing you. 
Anarchs prefer a little bit more due process than that. At the very least, the 
accused is permitted to give his side of the story. Leaders are expected to invesirigate 
the circumstances surrounding the alleged offense, and to report their findings to the 
community. Some communities trust their leaders to determine guilt or innocence. 
Others prefer a public trial. Punishment usually fits the crime, and some communities 
prefer banishment to destruction. Many anarchs believe penalties should be rehabili- 
tative rather than punitive. On the other hand, some idiots and malcontents just 
need killing, and few object when a self-aggrandizing “revolutionary” who threatens 
to bring needless misery on anarchs everywhere is put down for the common good. 
CAMARILLAJUSTICE 
To anarchs, there is no “justice” in the Camarilla, there’s “just us’’ against an old, 
entrenched, insane and power-mad “them.” The sect considers criminal those things 
to which anarchs feel entitled and the whole of Camarilla “justice” is geared toward 
keeping things just the way they are. Worse, an innocent can be convicted of a so- 
called “crime” on nothing more than the word of a sufficiently influential elder, and 
what elder isn’t influential in the extreme compared to a neonate? 
It’s bad enough knowing you can be put to Final Death on a whim, but the 
indignity hardly ends there. Other punishments exist that, while lenient in elder eyes, 
are infinitely worse to an anarch. One is being returned to your sire as an unreleased 
childe (“Apparently, he failed to learn his lessons the first time; see that he does not 
fail again”). Another is being forced into blood slavery to the prince (“I trust, with your 
newfound devotion to my safety, we have seen the last of your pathetic tantrum?“). 
Among anarchs, the phrase “Camarilla justice” is an oxymoron. There can be no justice 
in the sect; its very existence is a crime against vampires everywhere. 
THF SARRAT 
Technically, the Sabbat is just a very large faction of the Anarch Movement. It is 
an astoundingly sick and twisted faction, of course, but it is still part of the drive to abolish 
elder rule. Ideologically, some strong similarities exist between the two: the commitment 
to destroy the Camarilla, the willingness to follow only those leaders who continually 
prove themselves, even to some extent the emphasis on combat proficiency and war 
parties. Some converts from the Sabbat have even gone so far as to describe unlife in an 
anarch gang as “Sabbat Lite” - 
all the camaraderie, none of the dogma. 
CHAPTER 
THREE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
89 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


There are other differences, however, that prevent the anarchs and the Sabbat 
from ever seeing eye to eye in anything but the most immediate and necessary terms. 
Most encounters between anarch gangs and Sabbat packs result in a straight-up brawl 
with no quarter asked and none given. For while their fundamental goals may be 
similar, in practice the unholy rites of the Sabbat and their disregard for the unlives 
of their individual members in favor of the glory of the sect are anathema to anarchs. 
Though information on the inner workings of the sect is scant at best, modem 
anarchs have learned enough to know the Sword of Caine is not a viable alternative 
to the Camarilla. It appeals only to the most sociopathic of nihilist thugs, and 
mainstream anarchs consider them a lost cause anyway. For the vast majority, 
regardless of faction, in the end there is no dissent: The Sabbat is the enemy, clearly 
and unequivocally. 
RFJFCTING HUMANITY 
While anarchs in general are more receptive to new and different ideas than 
most Camarilla loyalists, and perhaps more likely to follow (or at least aspire to 
follow) Paths of Enlightenment despite their relative youth, there is a difference 
between accepting one’s vampiric nature and reveling in it. Anarchs know they aren’t 
human anymore, but very few believe this automatically entitles them to be absolute 
monsters. Frenzy must be mastered, not indulged. What good does it do to escape 
outside oppression if you remain a slave to the Beast within? 
CAINITE 
SUPREMACY 
Likewise, most anarchs - 
even the rare few who follow Paths - 
reject the idea 
that “not human” equals “superior to humans,” at least in a moral sense. Superior in 
terms of raw ability, yes; even the lowliest of neonates soon manifest powers that are 
godlike when compared to mortals. But being stronger, faster, tougher or in any other 
way superior to mortals in performance does not grant a vampire the right to treat 
them like mere cattle. As a general rule, mainstream anarchs treat mortals with 
respect, if not as individuals then at least as a whole. To them, it is the ultimate 
hypocrisy to treat mortals in ways they refuse to accept from their own elders. 
PROMI~ES 
OF FREEDOM 
Happiness inslavery, the saying goes- and that’s exactly what the Sabbat gives. 
The Vaulderie merely replaces a bond to one with a bond to many. Where, anarchs 
ask, is the freedom in that? They hear the promises of freedom, but most know those 
promises are lies. It’s a tough sell for even the most silver-tongued of rogues, and the 
anarchs aren’t buying. Even most nihilists, who seldom retain much of their 
Humanity anyway, balk at the Vinculum. They know a leash when they see one. 
WAR AGAINST THE ANCIENTS 
Somewhere, somehow, the Sabbat went astray into religion and never came 
back. Few anarchs truly believe in the Antediluvians, and those who do simply aren’t 
concerned about them. After all, if nuclear weapons haven’t roused them from 
torpor, they must be down for the count. The problem, as anarchs see it, isn’t the 
semi-mythical slumbering Ancients; it’s the very real and active elders who control 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
90 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the society the Movement exists to change. Apocalyptic millennia1 fears be darnned; 
there’s a revolution to be fought, not some fanatical holy war! No dedicated anarch 
has time to worry about Gehenna. 
OTHFR 
Issues 
FFFDING 
Anarchs are no different from other vampires when it comes to feeding. :Some 
hunt as predators, others steal as thieves. Some prefer the Casanova way, others 
prefer the Sandman method. Some restrict themselves to animals, others are lucky 
enough to have a human herd. The difference is that unlike Camarilla loyalists, 
anarchs rarely have permission to feed whenever and wherever they get their meals, 
and this makes them poachers as far as the elders are concerned. Thus, the primary 
feeding concern for most anarchs is knowing on which elder’s domain they are 
poaching, how to avoid being caught and just how that elder is likely to react when 
- 
and it’s a very frequent “when” - 
they’re busted. 
More often than not, elders extort some service from the offenders and let the 
matter drop. Poaching is such a minor infraction that it’s just not worth the time lor the 
trouble to make a big deal over a few pathetic upstarts sneaking a sip or three when they 
thought no one was looking. Occasionally, however, elders crack down hard, particu- 
larly on repeat offenders. The last thing an elder can afford to do is look weak, because 
that motivates his rivals to move on his assets. Sometimes, despite all precautioms, an 
anarch simply picks the wrong night to hunt in the wrong part of town. The next thing 
he knows, he’s standing before the prince with a furious elder demanding his head. 
Incidents like this underscore the urgency of anarch demands for the equal 
distribution of a city’s resources. Vampires must feed, they argue; deny blood. long 
enough and the Hunger will drive them to frenzy. They don’t want to poach on an 
elder’s domain, they have to. In this regard, anarchs find themselves made criminals 
by necessity whether they like it or not. 
THEBLOOD 
BOND 
There is more rampant hypocrisy throughout the Movement on this issue than 
perhaps on all others combined. No anarch wants to be enslaved to an elder; given 
a choice, most would much rather die instead. The Bond is the one punishment that 
will drive an otherwise rational anarch into the Sabbat. Many go, hoping and praying 
they will be able to escape once the Bond is broken. Pitifully few ever return, and 
those who do are never quite the same. Despite this, they go anyway, so strong is their 
desire to be free. Without a doubt, anarchs see the Bond as one of the most heinous 
crimes a vampire can commit - 
usually. 
There are exceptions to every rule, and always people to make them when it suits 
their purposes. The default position of most anarchs is that the Bond is always wrong 
no matter who is Bound to whom for what reason, but more than a few find ar least 
one reason to Bond someone for something. The most popular exception is a m.utua1 
Bond between lovers (many anarchs are still too young to have given up mortal habits 
like boyfriends and girlfriends). Critics contend that condoning mutual Bonds is like 
CHAPTER 
THREL: THE RLBEL UNLIFE 
91 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


saying it’s acceptable to be hooked on heroin if the heroin is also hooked on you, but 
that argument isn’t very persuasive after the fact. 
Beyond mutual Bonds, some anarchs believe it’s acceptable to Bond anyone 
outside the Movement, or outside their own faction, or even outside their own gang. 
When called on it, they generally respond with a half-hearted justification that boils 
down to “it’s unfortunate but necessary given the circumstances.’’ This argument 
seldom convinces anyone, but they make it anyway. Most mercenaries and nihilists 
will go to great lengths to avoid being Bound themselves, but Bond others without 
hesitation or remorse. This is one of the main reasons for their lack of popularity 
among the other factions. 
Still, despite all the exceptions and the hypocrisy, the Blood Bond remains the 
most hated and reviled of practices. So reviled, in fact, that anarchs long ago 
developed a different name for it: Blood Slavery. A regnant is a Blood Slaver; a thrall 
is a Blood Slave. The latter is a victim to be liberated while the former is a criminal 
to be punished. In most anarch communities, Blood Slavery is a capital offense. 
GHOULY 
If anarchs could reach universal consensus on at least one issue, the question of 
ghouls should be it. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth. Many of the same idealists 
who decry “Blood Slavery” among vampires turn a blind eye toward the keeping of 
ghouls, if only from sheer pragmatism - 
after all, it’s hard to maintain ghouls without 
establishing a bond, and they have to have s m e  way of keeping their many retainers 
loyal. Others denounce this as hypocrisy, asserting that even mortals who choose to 
gain the strengths of the Blood and enter avampire’s service still have rights. No matter 
how well-treated they might be, they are still slaves - 
and slavery is wrong. 
For all the passion of the debate, in truth it is often a mmt point in a vampire’s nightly 
existence. It’seasytoupholdyourprinciplesinavacuum, buteventhemostdedicatedidealists 
are often forced to compromise when reality starts grinding them down. They might delay it 
as long as they can - 
some gangs have been known to pass ghouls from one member to the 
next for yean on end in an attempt to prevent the ghouls from being cumpktely bound - 
but 
eventually, circumstances force even the most reluctant of moralists to make an exception. 
And after the first, each additional exception becomes that much easier to rationalize. 
That said, it bears noting that mainstream anarchs seldom think any less of 
ghouls than they think of each other or, for that matter, normal mortals who are 
willing participants in the revolution. Many anarchs have a standing pledge to 
Embrace their retainers if those retainers are mortally wounded while serving the 
cause, or to let them die naturally if that is what they prefer. What’s more, unlike the 
poor dumb bastards enslaved to a callous Camarilla elder, anarch ghouls can usually 
expect their regnants to stick by them in a pinch. 
THF FMRRACF 
For many anarchs, their rebellion began the very night of their Embrace, and they 
view that event as the first and most outrageous of innumerable injustices visited upon 
them ever since. No matter how well they come to terms with their new existence as 
vampires, they bear their sires little but hatred for the ultimate crime of sentencing 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
92 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


them to this eternal punishment. Even those who forgo revenge find it next to 
impossible to forgive or forget. Accordingly, bestowing a cruel or even just c,mal 
Embrace is the one line they will not cross, and most utterly despise those who {do. 
To Embrace a mortal against that mortal’s will, anarchs argue, is to utterly reject 
everything the Movement stands for. In practice, some sires are far more discrimmat- 
ing about what exactly constitutes consent than are others, but even a normally 
callous nihilist will occasionally make a token effort to solicit agreement prior to 
doing the deed. Of course, no mortal can truly make an infomed choice about 
whether or not to become a vampire, but a less ignorant decision is better than 
nothing. As it is, it’s often far more than an anarch‘s sire offered her. 
This is not to say that all anarchs are victims of a cruel twist of fate -far 
from it. 
Although relatively rare in comparison to the number of anarchs who have defected 
to the Movement from oppressive unlives, some revolutionaries went willingly into 
undeath or even straight into the ranks of the anarchs. Groomed by sires interested in 
continuing the struggle or naturally excited at the chance to eternally advance their 
own social agendas, such “ready-made” anarchs tend to be much more prepared to deal 
with the realities of vampiric unlife and the hardships encountered while fighting for 
the Movement. If they have a common fault, it is that they may sometimes be a touch 
too idealistic when dealing with other anarchs who have endured harder unlives; 
however, this varies widely depending on the anarch in question. 
This is not to say that all anarchs are so scrupulous when choosing to Embrace, 
especially when their fellows aren’t around to condemn them. Plenty of mercenaries 
in the world will put the bite on anyone they think might be useful to them in their 
business, and many nihilists will Embrace on a whim if they’re bored. According to 
rumor, at least one infamous nihilist wanders the United States siring and immedi,itely 
abandoning as many as ten childer in a single night just to cause trouble for the local 
prince. While other nihilists think this is absolutely hysterical, there are literally 
hundreds of more socially responsible anarchs who would love to see this thug dead. 
DIARLFRIF 
According to the elders of the Camarilla, diablerie is the most heinous and 
despicable crime one vampire can commit against another. They should know, 
considering that many among them have committed this act at least once. More than 
a few have several times consumed the souls of their own elders; indeed, had thev not 
done so, they likely wouldn’t have survived the centuries. The elders of today were 
the neonates of the Great Revolt, and they well remember the sweet taste of power 
on their lips. True, legend has it that Caine himself forbade diablerie, but that’:; not 
why the elders forbid the practice. They know where it got them, and they have no 
intention of allowing their own childer to take the same road to power. 
To a certain extent, their propaganda works. Most neonates believe diablerie is 
indeed the foulest of deeds. Most neonates are not anarchs, however, and anarchs 
believe otherwise. For millennia, elders have used to potency of their blood to crush 
the lesser generations beneath their heels like serpents. Anarchs believe those 
serpents, once stepped on, should turn and bite the heels of their oppressors. And if 
CHAPITRTHREE: 
THE REBEL UNLIFE 
93 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the means exist to turn the awesome power of the elders against them, those serpents 
would be fools to leave that weapon unused. 
Few m h s  take a cavalier attitude toward diablerie, however. If nodung else, fear of 
discovery anddeath prevents most fromever going quite that far. Thedlfferencebetweenanarchs 
and less radical neonates is that for anarchs, diablerie isn’t necessarily anathema. Cmsuming the 
soul of another merely for the thrill of the experience and the increase in blood potency is 
inexcusable, but talung power from thw who abuse it and wielding it against them in defense 
of liberty is an act of courage and nobility. Among anarchs, motive matters. ofall who stalk the 
night beneath the moon and stars, fear mast the fanatic who believes himself justifid. 
In this 
respect, anarchs have far more in common with the Sabbat than m
y
 
are willing to admit. 
GOLCONDA 
For the vast majority of anarchs, Golconda is nothing more than a fairy tale told 
by elders who still pine for their lost humanity after all their many centuries in 
darkness. There is no substance to the myth, and only the colossally gullible ever fall 
for this wishful fantasy. The Embrace is a one-way trip. Once a vampire, always a 
vampire. There is no going back. 
At least, that’s the conventional wisdom. The truth of the matter is that more 
than a few anarchs suspect there might actually be something to the myth after all, 
they’re just not sure what that something is. The more philosophical among their 
ranks suggest that Golconda represents the ultimate in liberation. For the undead, 
what could possibly be more liberating than conquering the so-called Curse of Caine 
and becoming mortal again? 
Nevertheless, few in the Movement are in any position to forsake concerns temporal 
for concerns spiritual. It’s hard to achieve enlightenment when you’re busy trying to 
achieve your next meal without the scourge dragging you in for poaching. Those who 
wander the night with their heads in the clouds usually come down to find their asses in 
big trouble. According to rumor, many autarchs withdrew from vampire society to seek 
this “ultimate liberation” (and that’s one reason why so many anarchs secretly respect 
them), but if any have found it, they have yet to bring it back to the masses. 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
94 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPTER 
THREE: THL REBEL UNLIR 
95 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


ANARCH 
FRFF 
TFRRITORIFS 
Anarch communities come in many sizes, from the tiniest of slums supporting 
a single coterie on the fringe of Camarilla- or Sabbat-held cities to entire metropoli- 
tan areas completely under anarch control. What follows is a brief study of their 
organization, leadership styles and some of the challenges facing their residents on 
a night-to-night basis. 
ORGANIZATION 
FNFMY 
TFRRITORY 
When the Camarilla, the Sabbat or another powerful entity dominates a metropo- 
lis, anarchs are usually few and far between. Organization is very loose or essentially 
nonexistent - 
other than hanging out together in their meager hunting grounds, they 
can’t do very much without provoking their own destruction. Few anarchs wave the flag 
with any vigor when overwhelmingly outnumbered, seeing no point in throwing their 
lives away when there’s little hope of lasting gain for the survivors. 
In survival situations, continuing the struggle is all that matters. Anarchs who 
willingly remain in such areas when they have the means to move elsewhere are 
either unmotivated posers or disciplined guerrillas. The posers tend to drop out of 
society altogether or go over to the other side when they get tired of existing on the 
ragged edge. Guerrillas usually belong to covert terrorist and insurrection cells, 
smuggling arms, allies and information under the enemy’s nose. Such revolutionaries 
are dedicated and highly dangerous to those in power. They do not hesitate to 
eliminate anyone who threatens their operational security - 
including setting up 
other foolhardy or careless anarchs whose behavior threatens to expose their efforts 
to those in power. 
Anarchs in these territories tend to recognize no greater leader beyond those 
they appoint to head up their own gangs or cells, and may not even stay in contact 
with other local anarchs for fear of what might happen if one of their members is 
captured and tortured or mind-raped by the enemy. Much to the chagrin of Camarilla 
elders, rumors of a charismatic revolutionary leader in such territories are often 
nothing more than anarch propaganda designed to draw attention away from their 
members and cause foes to waste time chasing after a mythical enemy. 
DISPUTED 
TFRRITORIFS 
Whenneither the Camarilla nor the Sabbat completely dominates a metropolis, 
it logically follows that anarchs are both more numerous and more visibly active. 
With greater numbers comes greater potential for change, and more often than not, 
local anarchs begin to defer to the most charismatic leader to make decisions for the 
group. Such leaders usually have a few trusted lieutenants whose loyalty is beyond 
question, and act as intermediaries between the anarchs and any other group with 
which the revolutionaries need to speak. Area anarchs might not agree with their 
leader on every issue, but she’ll do until someone better comes along; if the situation 
becomes truly unbearable, either the leader will be deposed or a representative 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
96 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


council will be established to divide power between the local gangs. Full-fledged 
councils remain rare in disputed territories, however - 
for better or worse, it is 
generally more useful to have one clear leader in times of conflict who can make quick 
decisions than a dozen individuals of equal and possibly conflicting authority. 
Trouble occurs when more than one natural leader arises in a given area. Given 
a choice, most anarchs follow leaders who best express their own beliefs, consciously 
recognized or otherwise. If these personalties can co-exist or even work together, the 
results can be impressive indeed; if they battle over methods or ideals, however, a 
bitter and explosive rivalry is sure to ensue. Sadly, potential troublemakers eager to 
play a part in these violent tragedies are relatively common in anarch communities, 
not to mention manipulative sect elders lurking in the wings trying to provoke such 
dramas at every opportunity. The same determination that gives a neonate the 
strength to defy her elders and resist assimilation often makes her equally unwilling 
to compromise her ideals among her peers. To do so is to surrender her individual self 
and the principles around which she has based her unlife, and that’s just too much 
for her to bear. 
That said, it’s also a fact that anarch enclaves within disputed territories are still 
so small and comparatively weak that factional conflict very rarely escalates beyond 
constant trash-talking, shouting matches and occasional brawls between hot-headed 
individuals. Outright violence is frowned on by all sides, and inflicting Final Death 
on a rival is almost certain to result in the immediate death of the offender and 
censure of his entire gang as well. Even if rival gangs control adjacent turf, members 
usually stay in their home territories and don’t go looking for trouble - 
at least not 
directly. For as passionate as they might be, all but the dimmest of nihilists also 
recognize that there are not enough revolutionaries to throw their unlives away in 
petty disputes with each other, especially with larger powers like the sects waiting to 
pounce on the survivors. 
ANARCH 
TFRRITORIFg 
Most rare of all are those few metropolitan areas wherein the anarchs are the 
dominant political force. Such cities can be shining examples of the strength and 
righteousness of the cause. They can just as easily be embarrassing reminders of all 
that is selfish and evil in the Children of Caine. Most chart a difficult course between 
the two extremes as their citizens struggle to answer the calling of their consciences 
despite the demands of their Beasts. 
In general, the smaller the community, the fewer problems it suffers. Organiza- 
tion depends entirely on the level of civic duty felt by the citizens of such 
communities. Most anarch gangs are content to let their appointed leaders manage 
the community as a whole while they deal with the issues of night-to-night existence. 
So long as these leaders remember to lead by advice and example rather than nile by 
dictation and destruction, they retain their authority to mediate whatever disputes 
can’t be resolved without their intervention. Leaders who let their authority go to 
their heads quickly lose the respect on which that authority is based, and tend tO lose 
their positions shortly afterward. 
CHAPIERTHREE 
THE RIBEL UNLIFE 
91 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Anarchs often believe that allowing a single vampire to be installed in a position of 
lasting, consolidated, “official” authority is an invitation to tyranny. While asingle baron 
may represent a smaller community or be chosen to act as the proverbial “first among 
equals” for a representative body, given a chance anarchs generally prefer to govern their 
larger communities via some form of council. Many of these councils begin as mere udhoc 
advisory panels formed by the most civic-minded members of the community, but as the 
community grows larger councilors find they require increasingly formal management in 
order to maintain harmony among the resident gangs and ensure that all anarchs feel their 
concerns are being addressed properly. While the actual form a city’s council takes can 
be whatever the community desires- -from a republic with councilors chosen by popular 
vote to a council of the most experienced anarchs in the city to something as arbitrary 
as representatives chosen by lottery- as a rule all councils have some means of including 
at least one member from each distinct gang or faction within the community (not each 
clan). Doing otherwise invites unrest and ill will from any faction slighted. 
Naturally, some radicals insist that any concentrationofpower is utterly unaccept- 
able. To these anarchists, power is rightfully vested only in the community as a whole. 
They tolerate almost no formal government structure -when 
a problem arises, they 
convene popular assemblies wherein all interested citizens collectively decide how that 
problem should be solved and act on it. While other anarchs respect their comrades’ 
decisions in this respect, unfortunately the sects often find this structure relatively easy 
to exploit when attempting to conquer the territory; while it is harder to cripple the 
local anarchs by targeting specific individuals, it is also hard for the area’s revolution- 
aries to coordinate strategy or reach any rapid decisions regarding imminent threats. 
Regardless of their particular structure, however, all Anarch Free Territories are 
remarkable for the level of liberty and privacy their citizens enjoy. So long as the 
residents keep the Masquerade and avoid interfering in each other’s personal affairs, 
they are generally free to come and go as they please, associate with whom they will, 
hunt as need dictates and sire as often as suits them. Not all of them last, for one 
reason or another, but the fact that they are possible makes the struggle worthwhile 
to anarchs everywhere. This is precisely why elders hate and fear Anarch Free 
Territories and seek to subvert them at every opportunity. 
L F A I X R ~ H I ~  
Though most are loath to admit it even to themselves, anarch territories 
frequently have “officers” who fulfill necessary roles in their communities. The 
differences between them lie primarily in the source and extent of their authority. In 
theory, a Camarilla prince is an absolute authority unto himself within his domain; 
similarly, a Sabbat archbishop answers only to a cardinal and controls the local packs 
through orders passed down through subordinates. Anarch leaders, on the other 
hand, derive their authority solely from the consent of the communities in which 
they reside. As a result, their power is often very broad but not especially forceful, 
beyond whatever means they have of enforcing it themselves. Simply put: So long 
as the community respects her judgment, it will follow her lead. Should a leader lose 
her popularity, even someone as “lofty” as a baron, the community will ignore her. 
THE ANARCH GIIDL 
98 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


BARON 
Communities led by a single anarch or councils that choose a member to represent 
their collective interests generally call that vampire a baron. In essence, the baron IS first 
among equals in the community. His fellow anarchs defer to him because they believe he 
is the best and brightest among them and therefore the least likely to lead them all to ruin. 
He is responsible for keeping the peace between various anarch factions, which means 
in practice he spends most of his time handling dispute resolution. 
Whenever two anarchs (or two gangs) have a problem and they just can’t seem 
to work it out peacefully, it’s the baron who settles it for them the best way he can. 
The problem in many communities is that by the time the baron steps in, it might 
already be too late for a peaceful solution. When two or more gangs go to war with 
each other, the baron can often do little but throw up his hands and wait for the words 
or worse yet the bullets to stop flying. 
A baron’s power depends on his personal magnetism to a greater extent than any other 
anarch position. Given the wariness with which most anarchs regard a solitary figure in a 
position of authority, a baron must tread carefully in order to ensure that his word carries 
real weight with the local gangs, without appearing to go too far and be setting himself up 
as littlebetterthanapettytyrant. Hemighthavegottenthe job because t h e p p l e  thought 
he was the smartest or the strongest, but he’ll keep the job only if they like what he d w  with 
it. Sooner or later, he’ll have to make a decision that others are going to disagree with. If he 
is blessed with sufficient standing and charisma, he can make an unpopular decision ,stick. 
If not, he’ll be ignored and the locals will find a new baron to follow. 
COUNCILOR 
Communities led by some form of council, whether it has a formal name or not, 
generally call those individuals councilors. In function, a councilor has many of the 
same duties as a baron, especially regarding the pack or faction she represents; the 
only difference is that she shares her authority with her fellow councilors. Councils 
are common in larger communities where the locals can’t agree on a single person to 
serve as baron, or where the locals don’t trust one person with total authority and seek 
an additional failsafe measure to prevent abuse. 
Councils have slightly less trouble convincing their communities to accept and 
abide by unpopular decisions because they are viewed as less arbitrary and potentially 
tyrannical than a single baron. However, councils occasionally have trouble reach- 
ing a decision in the first place. They often deadlock over controversial issues, and 
bickering between councilors occasionally results in one or more of them resigning 
from the council in disgust. Unless a community has the foresight to establish some 
basic rules for fairly settling such disputes without intervention by a baron or other 
outside figure, a council can easily collapse under its own weight the first time one 
councilor tries to implement a plan or idea that another finds abhorrent. 
It bears noting that councils almost never determine representative seating by clan 
-that, according to most anarchs, is reactionary baggage reminiscent of the Camarilla’s 
primogen councils. Instead, they tend to seat councilors by peer group. Each gang in 
the city might have arepresentative, for instance, as would any other distinct social set. 
CHAPTER 
THREE: THE REBEL UNLIR 
99 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


OTHER 
OFFICERS 
Barons and councilors alike rely on assistants to manage community affairs. 
None of these assistants have formal titles, merely nicknames that refer to the nature 
of the jobs they perform. Like the barons and councilors they work for, they have only 
as much authority as they can personally command, and they certainly gain no social 
status from their positions. Among anarchs, respect gets you the job, not the other 
way around. 
Those who represent the community to other sects and independent clans are 
called ambassadors, diplomats or emissaries. The primary responsibility of an ambas- 
sador is to meet with princes, primogen or even bishops and convince these elders 
that it is in their best interests to help (or at least ignore) the anarchs she represents. 
Small wonder, then, that ambassadors are also often called by a far more cynical 
name: expendable. 
Those who track the comings and goings of vampires into and out of the city are 
called counters, monitors or sweepers. Barons and councilors need to keep track of 
who is in the community and what they’re doing there, but demanding that fellow 
anarchs present themselves upon entering the area would get them laughed out of 
office in less time than it takes to tell about it. Counters thus keep an eye on the city 
and let the leaders know when there’s a new face in town. 
THE ANARCH 
100 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


+? 
i 
e 
Although few anarch communities have the numbers to support such groups, 
those that can often recruit volunteers who can be counted on to defend the city, 
intervene in inter-gang warfare and otherwise apply force at the behest of the 
council. Such vampires are called deputies, sentinels or simply the militia. In order 
to combat allegations of corruption as well as the natural distrust that many anarchs 
have for anyone with “official” authority to use force, most councils take care to ask 
for deputies from each gang in order to ensure that everyone feels they are being 
treated fairly. 
Those who infiltrate the enemy to gather intelligence are called Bonds or moles. 
No matter how peaceful the community, it must always fear an attack from Camarilla 
or Sabbat forces intending to crush it and claim the city for themselves. The primary 
responsibility of a mole is to leam of such attacks and get warning to the threatened 
community so it can muster a defense. Moles pass less urgent info from time to time 
as well, such as when a particularly hated elder might be vulnerable or the schedule 
for the scourge’s next anti-anarch sweep. 
THF ~ F O ~ L F ’ S A R M Y  
ANARCH 
GANGS 
More often than not, anarchs are creatures of the city streets, whether they came 
from them as mortals or became familiar with them after the Embrace. Accordingly, 
the most common social unit among anarchs is the gang, which follows many parallels 
to modem urban gangs (though not quite as many as Camarilla elders claim). 
Gangs serve two very important purposes. The most obvious is acting as a 
deterrent against enemies threatening their members. Alone, the average anarch is 
relatively easy prey, since he is young and often thin-blooded compared to his 
traditional foes. However, potential assailants often think twice about attacking him 
if that means fighting a protracted and costly war with his entire gang. Eliminating 
a single anarch is almost never worth the sudden firestorm of retaliatory violence that 
invariably erupts. Accordingly, wearing gang colors or otherwise dressing to rleveal 
her association acts as a warning sign to everyone that no matter where an anarch 
goes, she is never without allies. 
Beyond mere physical security lies a more important purpose. Simply put, 
existence as a vampire is lonely, and anarch unlife can be lonelier still. In gangs, 
members find desperately needed comfort and reassurance in a very cold and tlrutal 
world. Refugees find themselves drawn together by circumstance and united by a 
sense of common misery, and band together in groups with unspoken promises 
provide each other with the friendship and support denied them by society. Gang 
members live together, fight together and often die together. Others might look 
down on their lifestyle as shallow or dysfunctional, but members themselves can 
reach levels of genuine devotion unknown to most vampires. 
CHAPTERTHREE: 
THE RIBEL UNLFE 
101 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


STRUCTURE 
Gangs differ primarily in structure, size and mobility. The structure of a gang 
depends on its purpose. Almost by definition, gangs are quasi-military organizations, 
and collectively they are the closest thing to a standing army the Anarch Movement 
has. In practice, however, they function as permanent independent militias. While 
they readily cooperate to repel the occasional Sabbat crusade or, more rarely, an 
archon-led Camarilla task force, they spend most of their time fighting each other 
over ideological differences. Gangs that consider it evil to keep human servants no 
matter what, for example, bitterly oppose gangs that rely on ghouls for extra muscle, 
and open conflict of one kind or another between such natural enemies is the norm. 
Gang leaders have more authority over their followers and can, within reason, 
issue orders to their people with a reasonable expectation ofbeing obeyed. Surprisingly, 
discipline within the ranks is seldom a genuine problem, since any member who truly 
loses faith in her leaders may simply challenge them for command or call for a vote of 
confidence. Together, these customs keep gang leaders relatively fair and honest. 
URBAN 
GANGS 
The smallest gangs are little more than a single group of five to seven members, 
with perhaps one or two members acting as the leader. Small gangs rarely control 
more than a single neighborhood unless their members are unusually powerful 
individually, or they maintain a veritable army of ghouls to bolster their battlefield 
strength. Since a number of anarchs eschew using ghouls for ideological reasons, and 
maintaining so many ghouls at the same time is such a tremendous strain, few gangs 
resort to this tactic unless in dire straits indeed. As aresult, small gangs either “squat” 
on a larger gang’s turf (often paying tribute to do so) or ally with other gangs of similar 
size to even the balance of power in an area. 
Larger gangs have seven to fifteen members usually subdivided into two or three 
groups, called “sets.” Each set has a leader who functions as a lieutenant to the gang’s 
overall leader. These larger sets have the strength to control two or three neighbor- 
hoods in an area. Each set comprising the gang has a home neighborhood under its 
control; the gang leader most often maintains his headquarters in the largest. Gangs of 
this size form in one of two ways: Either a small gang gains a number of recruits in a 
relatively short period of time, or a number of small gangs decide to merge into a single 
family, with each gang then becoming a set of the new gang. The latter event usually 
occurs when the component gangs of an alliance espouse the same or very similar 
beliefs, but only one has a truly charismatic leader. Over time, that leader inadvertently 
attracts loyal followers of her own, further strengthening the gang as a whole. 
The largest gangs have more than fifteen members subdivided into several sets. 
Each set controls a single home neighborhood. Each neighborhood is usually 
adjacent to another controlled by the same gang, or is of such strategic significance 
that it is considered worthwhile to hold despite its relatively vulnerable position. 
Collectively, these neighborhoods comprise a single territorial claim that often 
occupies an entire city ward. The gang leader generally maintains a main headquar- 
ters in the central or most easily defended area of this turf; his set leaders usually 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
io2 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


maintain smaller “offices” in the neighborhoods they control. In exceedingly rare 
cases, a single gang can grow large enough to dominate an entire city and even claim 
turf in other cities nearby. In this case, the gang leader becomes a “general” with a 
“captain” who controls the turf in each city via his lieutenants in each set. The 
general maintains a headquarters in the city his gang dominates with smaller 
headquarters for eachcaptain in the satellite cities, and at least one set that routinely 
travels between cities as a “courier” group. 
NOMADIC 
GANGS 
One variation on the normal theme is the nomadic gang, similar in structure to 
a“sett1ed” gang but different because it either lacks the strength to claim turf or, more 
often, simply prefers unlife on the open road. Nomadic gangs frequently pattern 
themselves on mortal biker clubs rather than urban gangs, though for obvious reasons 
all but the most daring or reckless of such gangs always travel with trucks, vans and 
RVs in their caravans. Some have well-deserved reputations for raising hell, a fact 
that often earns them a chilly reception from fellow anarchs who live under the 
watchful eye of astern prince. Others keep alower profile, content to avoid notoriety 
while quietly spreading the word of revolution among vampires everywhere. Either 
way, they keep arms and information moving between cities. Without them, the 
Movement would be severely disadvantaged. 
In practice, nomadic gangs recruit members, operate and divide authority in 
much the same way as other gangs, but with two pronounced changes: first, they tend 
to break into much smaller sets than settled gangs, if only to avoid the unwanted 
attention that a caravan of thirty or forty bikers or a dozen cars attracts even among 
the local mortal population. Second, individual sets tend to have a corresponclingly 
larger amount of freedom to do as they please given the amount of time they spend 
apart from the whole. Most nomadic gangs hold periodic gathers where members 
share stories, trade supplies and information or just enjoy each other’s company. 
GUERRILLA 
UNITSAND 
TERRORIST 
CELLS 
Another variation on the normal theme is the guerrilla unit, identical in 
structure to mortal “1iberationfronts”and “revolutionary armies” ifnot quite so large. 
Unlike nomadic or settled gangs, guerrilla units exist completely underground. An 
average guerrilla unit operates alone or in small, independent cells. As a precaution, 
each member knows only her immediate superior in the chain of command and the 
other members of her cell. All communication between cells is done by coded 
messages, Discipline use or similar arcane methods that are difficult to trace, let alone 
crack or corrupt with bad information. In cities where multiple cells are active, each 
must trust the unit’s central leadership for that city to keep them from unknowingly 
interfering with each other’s activities. This pattern of secrecy repeats at each level 
of leadership. Even then, the central leadership almost always replaces the compro- 
mised cells before the enemy can act decisively on the information it has gained. 
Guerrilla units do not claim turf. When they can, they manage secret training 
facilities far from the prying eyes of archons and templars, but are ready to abandon 
these camps as quickly and efficiently as they can whenever they are discovered. 
CHAPTER 
THEE: THE RIBEL UNLIR 
103 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


They stand and fight only when no other option is available or when the odds are so 
heavily in their favor that victory is certain. Often, the first and only sign of their 
presence is a sudden overwhelming assault on the prince or archbishop and his 
personal retinue of bodyguards. By the time the smoke clears and long before any 
reaction force can arrive, the guerrillas have incapacitated the bodyguards, killed or 
captured their target and disappeared into the night. This is the essence of uncon- 
ventional warfare: to strike without warning, devastate the enemy in a single blow 
and then vanish, leaving him nothing tangible to target for retaliation. 
Secrecy is paramount among guerrilla units. Many reveal their existence only 
through pamphlets that define their agendas and justify their activities (often 
dropped at the scene of an action), and they guard the locations of their strongholds 
and the identities of their members with fanatical zeal. Despite the modern trappings 
of this form of revolution, their ranks can include the oldest and most powerful 
vampires in the Movement. Regardless of age, even newly recruited guerrillas quickly 
become wanted for a number of offenses that would result in their immediate 
execution if they are ever captured and properly identified. Good cell leaders use this 
to their advantage, forging additional bonds of loyalty through shared criminal 
activities or discouraging defection by ensuring that no one member would likely 
survive the justice of the enemy, even if he turned traitor willingly. Some guerrillas 
remain on the move, communicating through trusted intermediaries and avoiding 
contact with anyone not known to them personally. Others hide in plain sight - 
having either permanently altered their appearances or eliminated any enemy who 
can recognize them, they assume cover identities in the Camarilla or (rarely) the 
Sabbat, biding their time until they can go active once again. 
GFTTING 
IN 
The process of joining a gang is fairly standard regardless of the type of gang a 
particularanarchjoins. It is asimpleprocess, buthardly aneasy one. It almostgoeswithout 
saying that a vampire can’t just walk up to a gang member and ask to join his gang - 
that 
approach gets her nowhere. At best, the member laughs in her face and then ignores her. 
At worst, he strings her along with promises of membership and then hangs her out to dry 
after getting her into serious trouble, possibly even leaving her to take the fall for one of 
the gang’s actions. If an anarch really wants to join agang, he must first demonstrate that 
he is committed to the Anarch Movement in general and the gang’s agenda in particular. 
Once he does this, the gang he wants to join generally comes to him with aseries of formal 
or informal tests that must be completed before the gang considers granting even partial 
membership. It may take months, years or even decades depending on the size and secrecy 
level of the gang, but if he’s truly down, the wait doesn’t bother him. Remember that 
vampires think in the long term, especially older ones -while a common street gang may 
not be able to afford to wait adecade to get anew member when there’s a war on the streets 
right now, an elite guerrilla cell might find that wait perfectly reasonable. 
While individual trials vary widely from gang to gang, there are some constants. 
Urban gangs tend to require new members to commit a series of crimes, or possibly 
give a prospective recruit a goal (such as raise a certain amount of money) and judge 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
104 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


his efforts against their own sense of style. Nomadic packs might require him to 
simply keep up with them over the course of agrueling itinerary while driving a stolen 
vehicle (without getting caught), or otherwise assess his resilience and resourceful- 
ness. A guerrilla unit might test a prospective member’s knowledge of their ideology 
as well as the practical skills he can offer them, and possibly require him to commit 
a daring act of insurrection in their name and escape clean. In addition to these more 
specific tests, in nearly every case a prospective gang member must endure repeated 
attempts to discourage him, whether through verbal harassment and intimidation, 
repeated public humiliation or in some cases outright physical violence. Naturally, 
whether he is supposed to hold his own in such situations or simply take the 
punishment stoically depends on the gang and the member in question. 
PRO~PECT 
Eventually, if he passes the tests and makes the right impression on the right people, 
a gang member approaches him and asks a final round of often highly loaded questions 
to determine his sincerity. If he gives the right answers (not an easy task), he becomes a 
“prospect.” From that point forward, he must hang with the set that controls his 
neighborhood, make an honest effort to acquaint himself with every member of the gang 
- 
many of whom will feign complete disinterest or even outright hostility -- and 
participate in various missions against the gang’s enemies. This is a probationary period 
during which he is watched closely by the gang, particularly leaders of the set he tnight 
ultimately join. During this time, his sponsor is a constant companion, singing his praises 
when he does well and defending him when he makes mistakes. The sponsor’s job is 
critical; almost a second sire, she guides her prospect through his probationary period and 
convinces the rest of the gang that he deserves to be initiated into the “family.” 
ACCEPTANCE 
When every member of the gang accepts the prospect as an equal, he bewmes 
a “cousin.” As a cousin, he must keep faith with his family, uphold gang ideals and 
obey his set leader (and his set leader often assigns apparently pointless tasks just to 
test his patience and loyalty). If he possesses a great degree of proficiency in any 
Disciplines not common within his set, he must teach those Disciplines to the best 
of his capability. He may ask to learn other Disciplines in return, but no one is 
obligated to teach him. He may participate in open debate of gang issues, but he may 
not vote, and he may not challenge for leadership. During this time, his sponsor 
provides basic instruction about the gang’s structure, history, customs, ideology, 
methodology and territory. If necessary, she provides similar instruction about the 
Anarch Movement in general. This training, called “indoctrination,” is necessary to 
impart the proper attitude about the gang, their operations, their enemies and unlife 
in general. The new cousin must complete this indoctrination to his sponsor’s 
satisfaction before his final initiation. 
INITIATION 
When the sponsor is satisfied, she informs the set leader that the new member 
is ready to be initiated. The set leader informs the gang leader and the two of them 
arrange the initiation ordeal. This ordeal generally requires the new member to pass 
CAAPTER 
THREE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
105 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


several torturous physical and psychological tests designed to reveal hidden weak- 
nesses that would be a liability to the rest of the gang. Some of the tests are quite 
severe; failure might even mean Final Death. If any test reveals a disqualifying 
weakness (and the recruit survives his failure), he is denied full membership until he 
overcomes the weakness. At least three times during the ordeal, he is offered the 
chance to back out without dishonor. The offer is not generally a trick; if he backs 
out, he is allowed to leave with no negative repercussions other than a vow of silence 
or a selective mindwipe to remove any knowledge of the tests he has passed so far. 
Before the last offer, the gang leader explains the benefits and responsibilities of full 
membership as well as the punishments for cowardice and betrayal. If he maintains 
his intent to join, the gang leader administers a loyalty oath. After taking the oath, 
he accepts his colors from his justifiably proud sponsor. 
Because of their independent-cell structure, guerrilla units maintain far more 
secrecy regarding their members. A prospect never meets the other members of his 
cell until he takes the loyalty oath. Prior to this moment, their identities remain 
hidden. His sponsor leads him through the entrance tests. The cell leader administers 
the loyalty oath in the name of the central committee. Guerrilla units never gather 
en masse to initiate new members. As a consequence, cell leaders bear a far greater 
responsibility to choose new recruits carefully and are correspondingly far more 
difficult to impress in the first place. In practice, prospects for membership in guerrilla 
units endure years or even decades on probation before earning the full trust of their 
cell leaders. Many lose patience and give up, but this only proves they lacked the 
dedication and discipline necessary to succeed at this level of the political game. 
FULL 
MFMRFRSHIP 
Initiation marks the point of no return. From that moment on, the new gang 
member belongs to a sacred circle. His new family teaches him any Discipline he 
desires and for which a teacher is available. He may participate in open debate of gang 
issues, vote and challenge for leadership. He may sponsor prospects for initiation and 
is oathbound to kill or die for his family, and his family is likewise oathbound to kill 
or die for him. Lastly, he may learn and practice the rituals of his sacred circle and 
is privy to any secret information solis sacredotibus (“only for the initiated”). Initiates 
of the same gang refer to each other (and only to each other) as “brother” or “sister” 
according to gender. They seldom react well when called “brother” or “sister” by 
someone outside their gang and usually express their disagreement on the spot. 
GETTING 
0 UT 
Sometimes, members break under extreme stress. A gang that suffers a humili- 
ating defeat in a critical battle because one or more members froze in combat usually 
brands the offenders as cowards and kicks them out. It is possible to atone for such 
a disgrace, but few bother to try. If the cowards know too much to be allowed to live, 
or the gang lost important leaders to the enemy, the weak links might be summarily 
executed instead (larger gangs can afford the loss of manpower, while more militant 
gangs have less tolerance for failure). Willful betrayal always earns a brutal death for 
the traitor. No matter where he goes, the gang he betrayed follows, spreading word 
t
i
THE ANARCH G~IDE 
106 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of his treachery to all who listen. As the news spreads, other anarchs join the hunt. 
Sooner or later, the fugitive drops his guard at the wrong time around the wrong 
people - 
and wakes up to find himself in the custody of those he betrayed. Agony 
invariably fills his last moments. 
At the other end of the spectrum are members who simply lose their passton for 
the gang unlifestyle -for whatever reason, they seek to leave the gang on their own 
terms. While any number of personal conflicts may result from such a momentous 
decision, as a rule most gangs let such members go in peace provided they do not 
reveal gang secrets to outsiders and do not join a rival group or (worse still) one of 
the sects. Some even maintain informal contact with former members for years or 
even decades afterward; after all, unlike the artificial feelings inspired by the Bond 
or the Vinculum, the emotional ties forged among members of anarch gangs do not 
automatically fade with time. 
ANCIFNTPROPHFCY, 
MOJXRNRFCRUITS 
THE LAST GFNERATIONS 
As the evidence mounts that Gehenna is no mere myth, but an actual and fast- 
approaching event, the Ivory Tower advocates and enforces a policy of denial. But 
even the most cynical of Kindred cannot help but recall whispers of the ancient 
prophecies that point to their own thin-blooded and clanless progeny as their 
undoing. Certain passages in the legendary Book of Nod seem to indicate that the 
clanless and thin-blooded are the harbingers of Gehenna, and will bring about the 
destruction of all vampires throughout the world. 
The thin-blooded themselves are all but oblivious of their role in Kindred myth. 
They do not know that their appearance is the harbinger of Gehenna. They know only 
that their weak blood, high generation, and obscure origins earn them the contempt 
and hatred of Kindred the world over. There is no haven or shelter for these outcasts, 
and they do not understand the bizarre and terrifying visions that constantly plague 
some of their number even in waking moments. Perhaps those who bear this so-called 
gift might puzzle out the meaning of their insights and act on them to save both Kindred 
and kine from what is to come, but only if they can manage to survive that long. The 
Anarch Movement provides a refuge for the few thin-blooded who manage to endure 
long enough to make some kind of sense out of their desperate existence. 
It’s easy to understand why many of the Last Generations would throw in their 
lot with the dissidents of Kindred society. The sects view the thin-bloods as little 
more than unwanted baggage fit only for abuse, or possibly as tools or dangerous 
weapons that must be either controlled or destroyed. Only the Movement can offer 
these unfortunates anything resembling a fair shake, and even that’s not guaranteed. 
More than a few anarchs are suspicious of thin-blooded Cainites: they’re (often 
relegated to the dubious status of “probationary anarch until they’ve proven 
CHAPTER THREE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
107 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


themselves. Some anarchs are even downright abusive, seeking to exploit the thin- 
blooded however they can, much as members of the other sects do. Most anarchs are 
at least marginally welcoming, however, ready to accept (and make good use of) 
anyone who is willing to act and fight on behalf of the cause. They argue that the very 
fact that many elders and conservative Kindred are so up in arms about the thin- 
bloods makes them, if nothing else, allies of convenience. 
Portraying a thin-blooded character is a wonderful roleplaying opportunity. You 
are a walking contradiction. A comparative weakling among giants and a novice 
among vipers, your survival is a chancy thing at best; at the same time, your very 
innocence of the Kindred and their society gives you a chance to see the night 
through a unique pair of eyes. Your mortal life isn’t yet totally behind you: perhaps 
it’s still within your grasp. Yet your new existence is a confusing puzzle that demands 
a solution, and that can be gained only from the immortal Kindred. The result is a 
character who walks the razor’s edge each night, and offers you a rich roleplaying 
experience to put a fresh spin on the way you approach the game. 
THE ANARCH GUIDL 
108 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


STEP 
ONE: INSPIRATION 
Starting with her mortal life, decide who your character is. Who was she hefore 
the Embrace? What did she do, think and feel? Where and how did she live?Hovr long 
did her sire stick around, and what - 
if anything - 
did she explain before she left? 
Keep in mind that, unlike most vampires, the thin-blooded generally aren’t culled 
from the ranks of the exceptional, unusual, or interesting. They’re more like average 
people in their breathing days: lovers Embraced in the heat of passion, a vessel spared 
an accidentaldeath by aguilty conscience, friends and relativesEmbracedon awhim, 
or maybe an enemy granted undeath to make him suffer for all eternity. And all too 
often, these unfortunates don’t even know who to thank or blame for their dubious 
gift of unlife. 
Clan 
Roughly half of all fourteenth-generation Kindred are Caitiff, and the remainder 
belong to their sires’ clans. All fifteenth-generation characters are Caitiff, without 
exception: at this point, the Curse of Caine is so diluted that vitae no longer sustains 
the special characteristics that help define a clan. 
Morality 
Virtually all thin-blooded vampires follow the Path of Humanity. They simply 
haven’t had the time or opportunity to encounter alternate systems of morality among 
the unliving. Should any of them survive the nights ahead, some will probably seek a 
different ethos, but for the time being no alternative Path followers are known to exist. 
STEP 
Two: ATTRIBUTES 
Characters of the fourteeenth and fifteenth generations assign only six Traits in 
their primary Attribute category. They still assign five Traits to their secondary 
category and three to their tertiary category, like all other vampire characters. 
Generation 
Decide whether your character is fourteenth or fifteenth generation. Either 
requires you to take the appropriate Flaw, which determines several of your inherent 
limitations. Regardless of which you choose, don’t spend any Background Traits for 
your Generation. 
Trait Maximums 
Unless otherwise noted, vampires of the Last Generations (fourteenth and 
fifteenth) have the same starting Traits and Trait maximums as thirteenth genera- 
tion vampires. 
’STEP THREE: 
ADVANTAGF~ 
This step is identical to creating a normal vampire character, except as noted below. 
Disciplines 
Thin-blooded vampires begin play with only two Basic Discipline powers, and 
can never raise any Discipline higher than the Intermediate level - 
fourteenth 
generation vampires may learn both Intermediate powers of a given Discipline, while 
fifteenth generation vampires may only learn the first Intermediate power of a 
Discipline. Fourteenth generation vampires who belong to a clan may choose their 
CHAPTER 
THEE: THE REBEL UNLIFE 
109 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


starting Discipline powers only from those available to their clan; clanless vampires 
may have any starting Discipline powers that they can justify learning. 
Backgrounds 
The Last Generations can acquire the same Background Traits as all other 
vampires, within reason: Those mortals who enter the ranks of the thin-blooded are 
seldom in the social strata that wields Influence at city hall or hobnobs with celebrities, 
though nothing actually forbids them from having such Traits. They can also take 
Insight, a new Background Trait that only the thin-blooded may possess (see below). 
STFP 
FOUR: 
L A ~ T  
TOUCHES 
This step is identical to creating anormal vampire character, except as noted below. 
Merits and Flaws 
Thin-blooded vampires have access to all the Merits and Flaws available to other 
vampires. Be aware, however, that some Merits and Flaws aren’t appropriate for the 
Last Generations: a fourteenth-generation Caitiff probably isn’t owed a Debt of 
Gratitude and doesn’t have a Prestigious Sire. Note that three specific Flaws define the 
thin-blooded: Fourteenth Generation, Fifteenth Generation and Thin Blood (see Merits 
and Flaws of the Last Generations, below). 
On the other hand, some Merits fit very well: Blush of H&, 
Eat Food (fifteenth 
generation get this for free), Light Sleeper, Calm Heart and other so-called “mortal Merits” 
are often appropriate for the Last Generations, given their relative proximity to humanity. 
NEW 
BACKGROUNDS 
Insight 
As if thin blood isn’t bad enough in its own right, a rare few among the Last 
Generations have a knack for discerning the schemes and intrigues of the elders of 
their kind. Weird visions and uncomfortable hunches plague their waking hours, and 
their sleep is filled with strange, prophetic dreams. Insight is not a directed or 
intentional type of divination: it comes unbidden and unasked for. Insight manifests 
in unexpected and sometimes inconvenient ways. It’s not an all-purpose Magic 8- 
Ball: it cannot be used to provide clear, specific answers to direct questions. The 
visions and dreams that Insight generates are usually obscure, vague and often 
symbolic. In fact, the more important the event or powerful the vampire involved in 
the vision, the less clear the Insight experience will be. This can be unsettling for the 
seer and frustrating for those who wish to use the seer as a private oracle. 
Sometimes your Storyteller will decide that you experience a spontaneous 
vision, hunch or dream as the result of your Insight. This could happen during a game 
session, in which case you’ll have been handed a golden opportunity to do some truly 
dramatic and creepy roleplaying, or in the downtime between games. Your Story- 
teller may use your Insight to instigate plots and subplots: Some of these stories may 
put you in the spotlight, and for others you’ll be merely the catalyst. On these 
occasions, your Storyteller will determine the results of your Insight, at her discretion. 
She may ask you to engage in a test to identify the exact details of your experience, 
or she may simply inform you of the nature of the vision. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
110 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


It’s important to keep in mind that seers experience visions and dreams that 
pertain only to the conflicts and schemes of vampires, and that although the Jyhad 
is avast struggle between ancient powers, vampires do not control everything. In fact, 
most conflicts between vampires don’t have any wider significance, and not (every- 
thing that Insight reveals is necessarily connected to the Jyhad or Gehenna. 
Additional Insight Rules 
Tempting Fate: Intentional Insight 
You may also attempt to provoke visions or hunches deliberately. Voluntary uses 
of Insight usually provide information that is less clear and detailed than that .which 
manifests spontaneously, and the attempt could even fail entirely. To voluntarily use 
Insight, you must make a Static Mental Challenge against a number of Traits equal 
to the quality of detail you are trying to experience: four Traits for a vague sense of 
significance, seven for more direct hints about names or hidden plots, all the way up 
to ten Traits for truly dangerous details. Be careful what you wish for when in search 
of vital information, as your Storyteller may be only too happy to give it to you.. . . 
The Occult Ability is used for retests. You can make as many separate attempts at 
deliberate Insight as you want, but the subjects of each individual attempt must be 
unconnected. (The Storyteller determines whether or not two inquiries are unrelated.) 
Failing two deliberate Insight attempts in the same scene renders you exhausted and 
unable to call upon the powers of Insight for the remainder of the game session. 
Group Insight 
In the unlikely event that two or more seers meet, they can make a voluntary 
attempt to provoke Insight together in order to gain greater detail. First, each seer 
must expend a Willpower Trait in order to participate in the attempt. Next, the seers 
engage in one simultaneous Static Mental Challenge against ten Traits. Each seer 
who wins the test simultaneously shares the vision granted by the Insight; seers who 
lose the test cannot view what the others have seen, and suffer the loss of two Mental 
Traits for the remainder of the evening. If at least one participant wins the test, the 
prevailing seers experience a vision with a level of detail equivalent to a ten-Trait 
voluntary Insight success. 
Insight Shock 
It’s possible to see too much through group Insight. Such intense and horrific 
revelations may overload the seers’ senses, temporarily shutting down their minds. 
When the group vision concludes, each seer who successfully engages in group 
Insight must make an immediate Mental Test against seven Traits. If a seer wins the 
test, she is shaken but otherwise unharmed. If a seer fails the test, she enters 
involuntary torpor. 
Insight and Torpor 
Whenever a seer enters torpor involuntarily (including through Insight shock), 
she may experience an episode of Insight. She will forget most of what she sees when 
she rises from torpor, just as she did when she first rose as a vampire, but some small 
details of the dreams or visions often remain. The Storyteller determines what the 
vampire sees and remembers in this state. 
CHAPTER 
THREE: THE ksit UNLIFE 
111 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Insight, Auspex and Dementation 
Insight and Auspex are complementary, while Insight and Dementation seem at 
times aligned and other times directly opposed to each other. A seer’s use of certain 
Auspex or Dementation powers may trigger an episode of spontaneous Insight, at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. For example, use of Spirit’s Touch might additionally reveal 
the item’s value to an elder in the Jyhad, while Aura Perception might inexplicably 
indicate that a certain Kindred is somehow “important” to follow or Telepathy 
actually reveal a scene from the target’s past as viewed from her perspective. 
Dementation also seems strangely connected to the powers of Insight, but in a more 
unwholesome fashion. For example, seers invoking Passim sometimes find that both they 
and their target get caught up in emotions stemming from a memory of times past, while 
at least one canny seer has used Voice of Madness only to find himself sharing some of his 
own visions with his target. As for those seers fond of using Eyes ofchaos to divine the 
strategies of the elders, well.. . suffice it to say that when it comes to such a grand design 
as the Jyhad, the abyss gazes back at the seer as well, sometimes with crippling results. 
NEW MFRIT5AND FLAWS 
You must take one of the two generational Flaws to play one of the Last 
Generations; you receive the normal amount of Traitsfor it, although they also count 
THE ANARCH CUIDL 
112 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


toward the total seven Traits’ worth of Flaws that you may take at character creation. 
Taking either of these two Generational Flaws prohibits you from also taking the 
Generation Background. If you take the Fourteenth Generation Flaw, you may also 
take the Thin Blood Flaw if you wish. Many, but not all, fourteenth-generation 
vampires are also thin-blooded. 
If you take the Fifteenth Generation Flaw, on the other hand, you may not also 
take the Thin Blood Flaw. The cost and effects of the Thin Blood Flaw are already 
figured into the cost of the Fifteenth Generation Flaw, though take care to read its 
wording precisely, as it differs slightly from the standard Thin Blood Flaw. 
Fourteenth Generation (2-Trait Physical Flaw) 
You were sired just a few years ago by a member of the thirteenth generation. 
Although your Blood Pool is the same as that of a thirteenth-generation vampire, you 
can use only eight of your Blood Traits to heal wounds, raise Physical Attributes or 
fuel Disciplines that require vitae. You can still use the remaining two Blood Traits 
normally for other purposes, including rising each night, creating and sustaining 
ghouls, creating progeny and creating Blood Bonds, though your attempts to bond 
another do not always succeed, at the Storyteller’s discretion. You take aggravated 
damage from sunlight and suffer a normal chance of Rotshreck when exposed to it. 
Fifteenth Generation (4-Trait Physical Flaw) 
You are among the last in the long line of Caine’s descendants. Your vitae is so 
weak that you may use only six of your ten Blood Traits to heal wounds, fuel Disciplines 
or raise your Physical Attributes, but the cost for all these actions is doubled. For 
example, raising your Physical Attributes by one Trait requires you to expend two 
Blood Traits rather than one. Rising each night still requires you to spend only one 
Blood Trait, however. You can use your remaining four Blood Traits to survive through 
the day and rise each night, but nothing more. You cannot sire progeny, nor can your 
blood create ghouls or a blood bond, although it is possible for you to have children in 
the normal fashion (albeit very rarely). Sunlight inflicts only lethal damage on you, 
instead of aggravated damage as it does to other vampires. You can consume normal 
food and drink and hold it down for about an hour or so before vomiting it up. 
Thin Blood (4-Trait Physical Flaw) 
You are one of the growing number of thin-blooded vampires whose cominx was 
foretold in the Book of Nod. The Curse of Caine is weak in you: while you suffer all the 
ill effects of your vampiric condition, you do not receive all its benefits. You may expend 
Blood Traits to heal wounds, fuel Disciplines or raise your Physical Attributes, but all 
costs for these actions are doubled. Your vitae is so weak that it cannot create blood 
bonds, nor can it create or sustain ghouls. Should you attempt to create progeny, the 
Embrace has little chance of succeeding. Make a Simple Test when you try to sire a new 
vampire: If you win, the Embrace succeeds normally. If you tie or lose, however, the 
Embrace fails, and your would-be childe is just an inconvenient mortal corpse. 
Characters of generations lower than fourteenth may also take Thin Blood, but 
they cannot invent new Disciplines (at least not as the Last Generations can) and 
they cannot take the Insight Background. 
CHAPILRTHKE: THL RLBEL UNUK 
1 I3 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Personal Masquerade (3-Trait Social Merit) 
Congratulations! You’ve managed to convince your local Kindred or Cainite 
community that you’re actually a full member of a clan, despite your true ancestry. 
Being accepted in this fashion means you are treated like a full member of undead 
society, rather than the half-person you are normally considered to be without this 
Merit. Exactly which clan you claim to hail from depends on you, but regardless you 
had best be prepared to maintain this illusion at all times - 
one slip and things can 
get very unpleasant in a hurry. Even being clanless is still considered better than 
trying to pass yourself off as one of true lineage - 
and most clans aren’t exactly 
forgiving toward those who fool them in this fashion. 
Ravaging Years (2-Trait Supernatural Flaw) 
The Curse of Caine did not grant you immortality. You still age, albeit very slowly 
-perhaps one mortal year for every 20 calendar years you survive. The effects of this 
Flaw are not readily noticeable to you or others, but eventually you will grow old and 
die, though not likely before you have suffered considerably from your decrepitude. 
Sometimes, however, your aging process accelerates: like aghoul deprived ofvitae, your 
deferred aging can return suddenly. Whenever you heal a Health Level of aggravated 
damage, you age an entire year in the course of a single day’s sleep. This may not seem 
like much of an inconvenience, but the effects can add up fast if your unlife is plagued 
by frequent exposure to sunlight or other sources of aggravated damage, and eventually 
your immortality will become a wizened thing indeed. 
Hemetic (4-Trait Mental Flaw) 
You find the very idea of drinking blood repulsive: in fact, just thinking about 
it makes you physically ill, an inconvenient problem for a vampire. In order to hold 
the vitae you consume within your system until you absorb it, you must make a Static 
Physical Challenge against six Traits immediately after feeding. Failure means the 
sudden, humiliating and extremely messy expulsion of all newly consumed Blood 
Traits as you vomit them up. The only way to avoid the nausea is to feed while 
frenzying. When your Beast takes control, you can keep down any blood that you 
consume. Feeding while in frenzy, in addition to being almost as messy as retching 
up vitae, can endanger the Masquerade, bringing you a lot of unwanted attention 
from the scourge or sheriff. 
Clan Weakness (2-Trait Supernatural Flaw) 
Although you are a Caitiff, you still suffer from your clan’s natural weakness. 
While this can help you pass yourself off as a member of the appropriate clan, it can 
also be dangerous if you’re not aware of it-or 
how other vampires might react to it, 
depending on the weakness. This Flaw can prove misleading to those vampires who 
believe that evidence of a clan weakness can pinpoint the Caitiffs ancestry: some 
Caitiff spontaneously replicate a clan weakness, with no connection to its lineage. 
Decrepitude (3-Trait Supernatural Flaw) 
When you suffer aggravated damage, the Curse of Caine doesn’t always succeed 
at repairing the injuries. Every time you heal an aggravated wound, you must engage 
in a Physical Test against a number of Traits equal to 5 plus the number of Health 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
1 I4 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Levels of aggravated wounds you suffered (for example, if you suffered the loss of 2 
Health Levels from aggravated damage, the difficulty would be 7). Failing the test 
means that, although you regain your lost Health Levels, your body still shows signs 
of the damage. Burned hair may not grow back, and wounds may leave scars. Visible 
damage may require you to take the Negative Trait Repugnant; a failed test following 
unusually severe or massive damage may result in the loss of Physical and !3ocial 
Traits, at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
Fangless (2-Trait Physical Flaw) 
Something went wrong during your Embrace, and the Curse of Caine made you 
a vampire but left you without fangs. (How embarrassing!) You must use a knife, 
syringe, or other sharp instrument to extract the vitae you need to survive. This Flaw 
can lead to serious problems in hunting and feeding, as few mortals find such 
exsanguination pleasant, though the Kiss proceeds as normal once you place your 
mouth to the wound. The absence of fangs also removes your only natural means of 
inflicting aggravated damage. 
Superstition (Variable) 
Many of those who make up the Last Generations have no other means of learning 
what it means to be a vampire apart from books, movies and television. That includes 
the things that can cause them harm. The supernatural effects of the Embrace can give 
such delusions the power to hurt or even kill those who suffer from them. A vampire 
who expects to be repelled by crosses because that’s what happens to all the vampires 
in the movies may suffer real damage from touching a crucifix. Can’t Cross Running 
Water, Cast No Reflection and Repulsed by Garlic are good examples of such Flaws. 
Others include compulsively counting objects thrown in your path, being repulsed by 
wild rose, only feeding from a particular area of the body or even believing that all. your 
vampiric powers depend on carrying or wielding a particular item. Storytellers should 
use the existing Flaws as guidelines for determining the Trait value of a particular 
superstition, and as a rule a Kindred confronted by his superstitious weakness must 
spend a Willpower Trait to actively overcome his debility. 
ADDITIONAL 
THIN-BLOODED 
RULF’~ 
Anomalous Biological Activity and Aging 
Whenever a thin-blooded vampire heals a level of aggravated damage, he may 
experience spontaneous reactivation of minor aspects of his mortal metabolism: 
growing stubble, feeling hungry for real food, spitting real saliva and so on. Whether 
or not this occurs and how it manifests is at the discretion of the Storyteller. Note that 
while a little anomalous biological activity may help fool witch-hunters, many elders 
can’t stand seeing this sort of thing and tend to react badly to it. Regardless of any 
anomalous activity, however, thin-blooded vampires do not actually age unless they 
possess the Ravaging Years Flaw. 
Waking U p  
Despite rumors to the contrary, thin blood provides no inherent advantage or 
disadvantage in awakening or acting during the daytime. 
CHAPTLRTHW: 
THE RIBEL UNLIFL 
115 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHILDREN 
OFTHF LIVING 
AND THF UNDFAD 
DHAMPIRS 
A dhampir is something that should not be, something that the Kindred and 
Cainites of the world believed could not exist: the offspring of amortal and avampire. 
It shouldn’t be possible, but it is ... very, very rarely. A fifteenth-generation vampire 
of either gender can conceive half-mortal offspring, which develop and are born in 
the normal fashion. Gypsy folklore calls such creatures “dhampirs,” and the term is 
rapidly becoming known in the circles of scholarly Kindred everywhere. 
By their very nature, all dhampir are young, the oldest no more than twenty. The 
thin-blooded vampires are very much a product of the Final Nights, and so the 
dhampirs postdate the youngest generations. They spend most of their lifetimes 
among normal, contemporary mortals, mostly unaware of their unusual heritage. The 
truth, when and if it comes, is almost always a shattering revelation. 
Most vampires have never heard of dhampirs, and those few who have are ready 
to scoff at the ludicrousness of the notion. (“Vampires impregnating mortals? 
Impossible!”) But already a few of these walking contradictions have found their way 
into the Anarch Movement. They number barely a handful, but the Anarch 
Movement regards dhampirs as the ultimate wild card: they’re not supposed to exist 
but they do, and therefore they should be welcomed. Predictably, some anarchs desire 
only to exploit this valuable new resource. Others, particularly the more studiously 
inclined, see the dhampirs as proof that the Final Nights have not only arrived but 
have parked their cycles at the curb. These Cainites often react with awe and hope 
when they encounter a dhampir, and try to make her welcome within the ranks of 
the Movement. 
DHAM~IR 
CHARACTER 
CREATION 
Disciplines 
Like ghouls, dhampirs begin play with Prowess, the first Basic Potence power. But 
they have no clan Disciplines, and therefore they may also have one additional Basic 
power in any of the following Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Celerity, Dominate, 
Fortitude, Obfuscate, Potence or Presence. Dhampirs always pay out-of-clan costs for 
Disciplines, and can never raise any Discipline above the Basic level (even if a 
dhampir becomes a ghoul). 
Virtues 
All dhampirs without exception follow the Path of Humanity, and assignvirtue 
Traits just like any other mortal character. It is theoretically possible that a dhampir 
could learn to embrace one of the Paths, but that would require prolonged exposure 
to individuals and events that would almost certainly guarantee the dhampir’s 
destruction. 
THL ANARCH 
GUIDE 
116 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Willpower 
Dhampirs start with two Willpower Traits. 
Merits and Flaws 
The full range of Merits and Flaws is available to dhampirs. However, they 
cannot have Merits and Flaws that apply only to vampires. For example, a dhampir 
cannot have the Fangless Flaw, because dhampirs do not have fangs. Dhampirs also 
have access to two exclusive Merits and Flaws (see below). 
Blood Traits 
Dhampirs actually create their own (albeit weak) vitae. They have ten I3lood 
Traits, and regenerate one per day. A dhampir can also drink vampiric vitae and 
regain lost Blood Traits more quickly, but ingesting just one such Trait meam that 
the dhampir is one-third of her way toward a full Blood Bond, and they do noi: gain 
any additional powers from being a ghoul. 
Freebie Traits 
Dhampirs receive eight Freebie Traits to spend on additional Traits or Merits, 
Dhampir Characteristics 
Dhampirs and ghouls share the same standard abilities and limitations, excepted 
as noted in this chapter. They can use Blood Traits to raise their Physical Traii:s, for 
example, and expend a Willpower Trait to refresh any Attribute Trait category. 
plus whatever other Free Traits they may gain from Flaws or Negative Traits. 
CHAPIER THREE: THE BEL UNLIR 
117 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


DHAMPIR 
MERITSAND 
FLAWS 
Perceive Vampires (2- or 5-Trait Supernatural Merit) 
Legends passed down from generation to generation by certain Gypsy families, 
particularly those that spent time in the Slavic lands, hold that dhampirs can always 
recognize a vampire for what she is. Note that a dhampir’s first recognition of a 
vampire, and the implication of what she sees, could be a terrible shock to her mental 
equilibrium. 
2-Trait Merit: You can automatically recognize a vampire, regardless of Merits 
such as Blush of Health, thaumaturgical rituals, makeup or any other attempt the 
target vampire makes to conceal his true nature. Mask ofa Thousand Faces fools your 
senses into believing whatever image is projected, but you are still aware that the 
individual projecting the image is a vampire. You can also sense that vampires hidden 
by Obfuscate are lurking nearby, though not exactly where they might be. In addition, 
the powers of particularly ancient and clever vampires may still fool you, at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. 
5-Trait Merit: You automatically pierce any attempt at disguise. Even the most 
formidable Obfuscate powers of the Ancients are immaterial: you always recognize any 
vampire for what she is, regardless of any attempt she makes to hide or disguise herself. 
Fragile Bones (5Trait Physical Flaw) 
Many of the same legends about dhampirs also say they have thin and brittle 
bones. For you, bashing damage is treated as lethal damage. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
118 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPIERTHREE: 
THE RIBEL UNLFI 
119 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The price of freedom is eternal vigilance. 
- 
Thomas Jefferson 
PLAYING 
A UNIQUF 
ANARCH 
The previous chapters in this book provided you with an overview of the 
anarchs’ history, information on creating viable anarch characters, creating 5tories 
for anarchs and insight into the nightly affairs of the Movement. By now you’re 
probably thinking, “That all sounds great, but how can I actually do it during game 
sessions?” This chapter helps you make it all happen. Everybody knows, that 
characters are the most important aspect of any Mind’s Eye Theatre story. This 
chapter provides what you’ll need to take your character beyond the anarch 
stereotypes and transform her into a believable persona. 
TALKING 
THF TALK 
THINKING 
LIKE 
AN ANARCH 
As you form a mental picture of the various aspects of your character’s behavior 
and personality, try to get into the anarch mindset and take note of those elements 
that will aid you in making sure your character retains her individuality. Stop 
thinking of your character as just an “anarch”- that’s only the first layer of character 
development - 
and start thinking of her as an individual who, among other things, 
is an adherent of the ideals of the Anarch Movement. She’s also got apersonal history 
that intersects somewhere with her political and social views to create motivations 
for her behaviors. She’s also a member of a clan that helps define and determine :some 
CHAPTER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
121 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


of her behaviors and attitudes. And she has goals she intends to accomplish that 
affect how she’ll approach the details of her night-to-night existence. 
THE GENERATION 
GAP 
The Young and the Relentless 
The revolutionary fire burns brightly in the hearts and minds of the Anarch 
Movement’s younger members, and with good reason: they are often the most deeply 
affected by the Camarilla’s stifling adherence to the status quo. Unable to share in 
the rewards of unlife because they were Embraced in the wrong century or into the 
wrong lineage, permanently frustrated in their ambitions by an immovable socio- 
political barrier, the fledgling anarchs understand that the Ivory Tower is little more 
than a decaying shell. It must be pulled down so that a better structure can be built 
atop its smoking ruins. Unfortunately for the Anarch Movement, this attitude is 
exactly what the Camarilla expects from the anarchs, and it generally gives even the 
more moderate members of the Cause a bad name. 
The prevailing stereotype claims that all younger anarchs gravitate toward 
violence as an expression of their passions, and that many if not all are so frustrated 
by their situation that they simply aren’t willing to stop punching things long enough 
to listen to or consider other alternatives. This stereotype isn’t without its merits: 
passion and frustration often lead to action, and that action is frequently direct and 
violent. The problem is compounded by the fact that a goodly number of younger 
anarchs are just that: young, both in terms of mortality and unlife. Mortals who 
expect youth not to rebel are fooling themselves, and the same can be said in many 
cases among the Kindred. 
Embraced recently enough to recall the intimate details of their breathing days, 
many young anarchs developed something of a “vending machine mentality” when 
they were alive: quarter goes in, candy comes out. Young mortals often expect their 
wishes and needs to be gratified instantly: imagine the rude shock they encounter 
when, after being Embraced, they discover a shadow society they never knew existed 
in which their wishes and needs automatically take a backseat to those of the Kindred 
in power. Is it any wonder that mortals raised on the milk of democratic rhetoric and 
taught that their ancestors fought wars to gain the right to self-determination will 
rankle, possibly even start breaking things, when they are forced into subservient 
roles by virtue of what seems an arbitrary set of factors? Unfortunately, most elders 
and even the ancillae have forgotten what it was to be a young mortal, and cannot 
identify with their progeny on these points. They tend to react harshly to the 
objections of the young, and this breeds even more resentment in those who could 
ideally benefit from the wisdom of their sires. 
How will you reflect this revolutionary zeal in your portrayal of your character, 
particularly if you’re playing in a Masquerade game that’s focused on one of the two 
larger sects? She could start by breaking things or punching other Kindred, and that will 
certainly get her some attention. But it will also get her butt kicked if she keeps it up, 
and it might even get her reduced to a thin layer of ashes floating on the nearest body 
of water. Even the most lenient and flexible of sires, primogenor princes will eventually 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


grow weary of an anarch who seems determined to live up to the worst stereotypes 
available, and once they reach that point your character’s continued existence is in 
serious jeopardy! Worse, continued in-character violence, even in the pursuit of a valid 
character concept, more often than not leads to building resentment and problems 
between players. The last thing your game needs is for its players to be at one another’s 
throats over issues of character interaction: that can bring a game session to a flaming 
halt, and even destroy an entire chronicle if it’s allowed to continue. 
So how can you portray the angry fires of youth without necessarily attacking all 
the other player characters your anarch meets? It’s entirely possible to play a joung, 
zealous and deeply committed member of the Anarch Movement without having 
your character try to bum down the Elysium. The realities of the live-action 
environment are that your character must somehow coexist with the other player 
characters, even if it means finding alternatives to what might seem the natural 
outlet for her inner outrage. Working openly as a reformer, or undercover as a mole, 
are two of the best approaches. You can still work toward destroying everything the 
other characters hold dear without alienating all the other players if you’re willing 
to accept that some in-character behaviors - 
however legitimate for your character 
- 
don’t work as well as others in this type of game. 
Maybe your character heaps scorn and mockery on the heads of Camarilla-loyal 
Kindred, but she might opt to do so subtly and mostly in the company of those who 
are likely to find her observations and barbs either amusing or telling. While she 
might prefer to glory in the outright destruction of the status quo, she could also prove 
very effective by turning every conversation to the topic of gaining opportunities for 
redistribution of power and resources. However she dedicates herself to tearing down 
the walls that separate the privileged from the masses, think about how you might 
portray these attitudes during actual game sessions. 
Keep in mind, however, that even if your character is an inveterate firebrand and 
advocate of direct action, starting fights every time the Kindred meet in the Elvsium 
isn’t going to win many friends for the Movement or be a lot of fun for other players 
and Storytellers. Perhaps your character is bound by obligation or duty to find a 
means ofcoexisting with the other characters in your chronicle. Or maybe she’s going 
undercover to take the measure of the prince and his cronies. 
You probably claim to have broken free of the Camarilla: how will you react if the 
Sabbat or Cathayans attack the Ivory Tower in your vicinity? Strange as it may seem, 
anarchs are often first to man the front lines of defense against invaders and ather 
threats. The reasons for this seemingly contradictory attitude are complex, but at the 
heart of the matter is the fact that if the Camarilla were destroyed tonight, the anarchs 
(those who weren’t destroyed along with the sect, that is) would have nothing left to 
reform. Many anarchs do not see themselves as the literal enemy of the Camarilla, as 
much as those who will redefine the sect and its institutions. Anarchs who turn their 
backs on the Camarilla Kindred in their time of need cannot hope to persuade them 
to listen to alternative notions of governance in times of peace. 
Finally, how will coming to terms with your unliving nature influence how you 
see and act for the Cause? Playing a young Cainite means not only finding your 
CHAPTER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKJNG 
123 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


character’s place in the Anarch Movement, but also portraying her reactions to the 
effects of the Embrace and the slow erosion of her old morality. Roleplaying an 
anarch affords you an opportunity to go beyond all the mental stereotypes associated 
with this type of character. But don’t forget that while you may style yourself as one 
of the “good guys” in the fight against the elders’ tyranny, your character still shares 
some fundamental traits with the enemy. Namely, you’re both undead creatures of 
the night, requiring the blood of the living to sustain yourselves. Try not to lose sight 
of this when constructing your persona: all Kindred and Cainite characters share this 
inherent flaw, and no matter how much they want to believe themselves heroes, they 
must still face the fact of the Beast and the toll it takes on their souls. 
Older and Wiser 
You still feel the fire in your gut, but sometimes it starts to die down as you 
contemplate the long years of fighting behind you, not to mention the long years of 
fighting that lie ahead. It’s wearying, and some nights you wonder how you keep 
going. Then you remind yourself of the Camarilla’s innumerable betrayals of your 
ideals, and force yourself to recall the faces of those who perished at the hands of 
Kindred determined to remove any threats to their precious comforts and status. It’s 
not much, but it helps. 
While there are neonate anarchs dedicated to peaceful forms of rebellion, and 
dedicated elders who are still convinced despite all evidence to the contrary that violence 
is the best and only option, it’s uncommon for an anarch who has been around the block 
a time or two to still believe that hard-core agitation is the best path to reform. Anarchs 
who have paid their dues on the front lines and in the trenches tend to be more moderate 
than their younger compatriots and spend alot more time among the Kindred. There they 
often seek to call on the like-minded to join them in rebuilding the sect’s policies as more 
realistic and functioning models, using their hard-won experience to underscore their 
arguments. Although these examples of political moderation are more accepted in the 
Ivory Tower’s salons and courts than their louder kin, the attitudes and behaviors that 
enable this concession from the Camarilla sometimes create backlash within the Anarch 
Movement. Simply put, the inexperienced and fair-weather anarchs sometimes lose faith 
in the dedication of their more experienced comrades because they don’t agree on the 
same methods of bringing about change. 
In a chronicle that’s organized around either the Camarilla or the Sabbat, the 
experienced anarch - 
or the younger anarch with a more moderate attitude - 
can 
often be the best choice of character. It still affords you the same range of 
opportunities for dramatic roleplaying, but you get the chance to play a character 
with a longer potential life expectancy. And the truth is that while the bomb-tossing, 
motorcycle-riding, nine-millimeter-shooting young thug is the stereotype that leaps 
to mind when discussing anarchs, the more moderate anarchs are at least equal in 
number to their violence-prone counterparts. Should you choose to make your 
anarch character a veteran of the Movement’s many conflicts, you’ll automatically 
bring a certain cachet to the cause. Making it clear through your actions that you’re 
about reform and not about mindless destruction will help you score points among 
the Kindred and Cainites you’re trying to influence. 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
1 24 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Your methods will be easily distinguished from those of the agitators: in cornpari- 
son, you’ll seem more like a diplomat to the Kindred and less like a thug. Because you 
know from experience that the Camarilla won’t bend to the pressures that the Anarch 
Movement can bring to bear from outside the Ivory Tower, you’ve elected to work 
tirelessly for change from within. Whether you pursue this agenda openly as one of the 
loyal opposition, or in a more clandestine fashion as a mole, your character will have 
ample opportunity to sink her fangs into the meat of the conflict between the Camarilla 
and the Anarch Movement. Every game session will give you new chances to pursue 
your agenda, and your fellow players will thank you for not starting a new hour-long 
combat every time the prince blinks funny at one of the local revolutionaries. 
But just because you’ve decided on this more moderate approach to pursuing the 
anarchs’ goals doesn’t mean you’re going to have an easy time of it. In fact, your lot might 
be at least as difficult as that of the anarchs with amore violent stripe: they’ve voluntarily 
separated and differentiated themselves from the Kindred, but you’re going to look to 
many Licks like you’re trying to have your vitae and eat it too. By attempting to persuade 
the Kindred that the anarchs have a valid point, you will be the butt of numerous jokes 
and more than a little ridicule. What progress you make on your agenda will be measured 
by inches, and you may well suffer more setbacks than successes in the name of the Cause. 
What will you do to keep your inner fire stoked? Where will you find the strcmgth 
and inspiration that will enable you to force others to see the truth and get in the fight? 
Oneofthegreatestassets youpossessis thesame thingthatenabledyou toreach thispoint: 
patience. Your character knows full well that the Kindred cannot and will not be rushed: 
change, if it occurs at all within the Ivory Tower, comes slowly, and only those who are 
willing to wait for it will ever know its rewards. Be prepared to play the waiting game, and 
be watchful for opportunities that the Cause can use to grow in strength and numbers. If 
your chronicle includes younger, more volatile anarch characters, your character can be 
an invaluable resource for them, providing advice on how to stay alive in these turtlulent 
nights and support when things get difficult. Don’t be surprised if the agitators accuse you 
of selling out and brand you as one of the Kindred whom they believe they are struggling 
against: they’ll come around eventually, if they live that long. 
Probably the greatest danger to your continued affiliation with the Anarch 
Movement is your long exposure to the Camarilla. Think about this: if you’ve 
survived as a committed anarch for more than a few decades, you’ve doubtless seen 
the way that the Camarilla Kindred live their unlives up close and personal. It’s 
possible that, after so many nights of struggle, you might begin to feel a bit envious 
of their comforts and privileges. And should you actually manage to gain even a small 
amount of status or power within the Ivory Tower, you’ll inevitably suffer ternpta- 
tions, and not just the ones you might expect. Indeed, once you comprehend exactly 
what the elders have been trying to withhold from you and your fellow agitators, you 
might have a decidedly difficult time giving it up. And that, of course, will lead to 
pangs of conscience, and possibly even a backlash from other anarchs who rnight 
view your inner turmoil as a betrayal of all they hold sacred. If you’re lucky, lrou’ll 
stave off these temptations and carry on with your lofty goals; if not, you’ll probably 
end up becoming exactly what you once despised.. . and that’s fun to roleplay! 
CHAPTTR 
FOUR: RADKAL THINKJNG 
125 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


WHATTHFHFLLARFYOUDOING? 
MOTIVATION 
Like it or not, nobody comes to the Anarch Movement by accident - 
and even 
if they did, they wouldn’t last long unless they found a good reason to fight against 
some of the oldest, most powerful and deeply entrenched societies on the face of the 
planet. What motivates your character, and what does she want to accomplish? You 
should answer these questions before your character sets foot in her first Laws of the 
Night game, because you don’t want your character to be just another frustrated Lick 
with an ax to grind. Instead, try to personalize your character so that the experience 
of roleplaying her is meaningful and fun, for you and your fellow players. Anybody 
can throw together a Brujah bruiser in three minutes and slap the “Anarch label on 
it, but the one-dimensional result is not only unsatisfying to play, it does a disservice 
to the story, your fellow players and the anarchs themselves. Every character should 
be believable and unique, because that enables both player and character to make a 
positive contribution to the story. The more attention you pay to this exercise, the 
easier it will be for your Storyteller to weave your character into the plots and events 
of the chronicle. 
Past Imperfect 
You devised a history when you first created your character, and you’ll use this 
to springboard your motivations. Start with your character’s mortal life. Who were 
THE ANARCH GIDE 
126 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


you before you became a vampire? Were there circumstances that might predispose 
you to the aims of the Anarch Movement? Maybe you’ve always been something of 
a reformer, using your time and energy to create a better world, or at least to oppose 
groups and individuals that seem intent on garnering power and money .at the 
expense of others. Some anarchs doubtless choose their progeny from the ranks of 
mortal reformist and dissident groups, and the last four decades have been marked 
with numerous worthy causes in which your character might have been involved. 
Maybe you marched and practiced civil disobedience for civil rights in the 1960s, or 
took to the streets to protest economic globalization in the 1990s. You mighi: have 
been a campus radical or anti-war demonstrator in the turbulent 1970s, or an 
environmental activist in the industrial madhouse of the 1980s. Connection.i with 
any of these might be reflected during play through your attire, language or behavior. 
When you’re comfortable with the circumstances of your mortal background, 
move on to the post-Embrace events of your unlife. At some point, you lost your belief 
in the validity of the sects (if you ever had any). When and why did this happen? Try 
to pinpoint exactly what it is about this rotting shell of the vampires’ socio-political 
structure that makes your character so angry or resentful. The reality of such one- 
sided partisan politics stirs something in the heart, mind and gut of the anarch. 
Perhaps your character was Embraced into circumstances that brought these lessons 
home fast and hard early in her existence among the Kindred - 
this happens most 
frequently to Caitiff, Malkavians, Nosferatu and other “outsider” clans and tdood- 
lines who find themselves holding the short end of the Camarilla’s social stick. 
It can also occur with characters of more “acceptable” lineage, such as the 
Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue: anyone who feels alienated and frustrated tiy the 
artificial limitations of her society can experience the desire to restructure her 
environment more favorably. Perhaps the prince didn’t even bother with a token 
attempt to disguise his pro-elder favoritism and blatant cronyism, and this rankled 
your sensibilities to the point where you got fed up and started thinking aboui: how 
to change things for the better. So long as you have some idea what this pivotal event 
in your character’s unlife was, that willgo a long way toward establishing why she acts 
the way she does now. 
THE DEPORTMENT 
DEPARTMENT 
Realize and accept that from the moment the Kindredor the Brothers and Sisters 
of Caine discover that you’ve thrown in your lot with the Anarch Movement, they 
will make any number of assumptions and judgments about you personally as well as 
your nature, goals and behavior. Many Kindred will expect you to stride intcr, the 
Elysium waving a placard that reads “Social Justice Now!” And maybe that’s exactly 
what you had in mind, since a little agitprop sometimes gets the attention of irhose 
who might be interested in your cause. But it also confirms all of the Kindred’s worst 
suspicions about you, and by extension all other anarchs. If this is the way you wish 
to go, be prepared not only for the stinging lash of the harpy’s tongue, but to let such 
taunts and insults slide without visible effect -starting a fight in Elysium is a quick 
ticket out of the city, and never forget most Camarilla members are just waiting for 
CHAPIER FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
127 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


an excuse to send you packing (or worse). If your pride can’t handle that kind of abuse, 
don’t bother showing up, because a single slip could easily cost you a lot more than 
you bargained for. In extreme circumstances, radical couture might earn you an 
immediate visit from the Keeper, which you had best handle carefully because it 
might well end with you being tossed out of the building and into the cold, wet night. 
If you routinely get thrown out of the Elysium before you have an opportunity to 
interact with other Kindred, have you really accomplished anything of value? 
Being mindful of how you appear in the eyes of the sects could one night save 
your unlife. To the Camarilla, at best you’re a whining, spoiled and sometimes 
amusing brat who will eventually give over her temper tantrum and return to the fold, 
after a few decades have removed the bloom from the revolutionary rose. At worst, 
you’re a subversive traitor to be rooted out and exposed with a zeal that echoes the 
McCarthy witch hunts for Communists in the 1950s. The only thing in your favor 
is that you generally maintain the Masquerade (if you’re smart, that is), and you’ve 
managed to gamer notable support from many Gangrel who were once members of 
the sect. The Sabbat is even less charitable. To the Brothers and Sisters of Caine, 
you’re an undisciplined, untutored rabble that’s as much a tool of the Antediluvians 
and the Sabbat’s chief enemy, the Camarilla. Worse, your doctrine seems to promote 
-to the Sabbat mindset - 
excessive freedom without any responsibility, and that 
is something the Sword of Caine cannot abide or permit. Sabbat elders understand 
that it’s foolish to insist on equality when the generational differences in blood 
potency automatically create inherent distinctions among Cainites. 
It won’t escape you that that this viewpoint is startlingly close to that held by 
many Camarilla elders, indicating that there’s less to choose from between the two 
sides than either of them would care to admit. But we already know that - 
so let’s 
go on to the business of how to craft the image your anarch seeks to project. 
Dressing the Part 
Take another look at your character history. Are there any identifiable clothing 
trends from the period of your Embrace that you can use to help personalize your 
character? The best sources of inexpensive costume pieces are your local vintage 
clothing and secondhand stores. Were you a flower child or a disco king in your 
breathing days? You needn’t spend a fortune recreating a vintage 1960s wardrobe: 
just a few items, such as a colorful flower-print skirt and a beaded headband, are 
sufficient to give the sense of the time and place. Green hair and a denim jacket 
decorated with a few well-chosen buttons could suggest the punk streets of London 
in the 1980s, while a flannel shirt and Doc Martens conjure up the grunge look of the 
early 1990s. When in doubt, go to the library or online and look up fashions for the 
desired time period. 
Also think about how you want to be perceived, what missions you may be 
undertaking from night to night, and how these factors might affect your sartorial 
style. Will you be rousing the rabble when you’re not flinging Molotov cocktails at 
the prince’s haven? You’ll want durable but flashy clothes and thick-soled boots for 
extra height, maybe a bold hair color and couple of tattoos that symbolize your anger 
toward the status quo. Are you the baron’s emissary to the prince? Go for a well- 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
128 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


groomed and personable look that thwarts the Kindred’s expectations of anarchs. Try 
chinos and a sport coat, velvet, silk, a tailored outfit or even a business suit, and 
leather shoes are a must - 
nobody pays attention to ambassadors who wear dirty 
tennis shoes. Moles tend to dress in whatever styles are accepted throughout the 
society they’re trying to blend into, and in contrast to most anarchs they favor subtle 
touches that bespeak the eras of their birth or Embrace. Bruisers usually like to 
indicate their willingness to mix it up through their choice of wardrobe, and thus 
they’re rarely found wearing anything other than jeans and T-shirts with a denim or 
leather jacket. Barons should avoid dressing like the Camarilla princes they’re mying 
not to emulate, without going so far to the other end of the spectrum that they end 
up looking like the punks everybody else believes the anarchs to be. Try clean blue 
jeans paired with a button-down work shirt and sturdy boots. 
Props 
You probably won’t be carrying placards that read “Impeach the prince!” 
through the Elysium (unless you’re really looking to get your butt kicked), but you’ll 
still want to give some thought to personal props that help you establish your 
character’s identity in the minds of your fellow players. 
Firebrands and those who would bring the truth of the Anarch Movement to the 
masses might carry a well-thumbed paperback copy of their favorite politi- 1-a 1 or 
philosophical work, whether it’s Karl Marx’s The Communist Manifesto or I’lato’s 
Utopia, with plenty of notes in the margins to suggest they’ve done more than just wave 
it in the faces of the elders. Fairly or not, glasses naturally suggest a degree of 
sophistication and intelligence that can be helpful when portraying an emissary or 
other anarch with a desire to stand apart from the rabble. Blacking a few teeth can add 
a lot to a Nosferatu or Samedi, or just suggest a tougher, lower-class look to other clans. 
Anyone who has a lot of information to keep track of (barons, spies, tactical planners, 
etc.) might want apocket notebook, leather portfolio or a PDA. Acharacter who might 
need to pick up stakes quickly- say, a quartermaster, a Caitiff who hasn’t presented 
himself to the prince or a Tremere whose Regent doesn’t know about her extracurricu- 
lar activities - 
probably needs a canvas or leather satchel to carry all his gear. Don’t 
forget a cell phone or pager if you need to stay in touch with your buddies. 
Say That Like You Mean It 
There’s not much point in trying to change the status quo if you never speak to 
anyone about it, is there? Some players prefer to spend their entire game se.jsions 
brooding in the comer, but the “cool loner” actually isn’t of much use to the Anarch 
Movement. Most anarchs like to talk about their beliefs and goals. But difl’erent 
anarchs express themselves in different ways, and thinking about how your character 
speaks and moves will help you really get into her shoes. 
Think about some of the situations you’re likely to be in during games and how 
your character would act in them. Obviously you’re going to walk, sit, stand and talk 
a great deal. But how? Firebrands and rabble-rousers don’t tiptoe through the 
Elysium: they swagger with the air of a Cainite on a mission, sit with their arms spread 
wide to indicate self-assured control and gesture expansively while speaking in 
CHA~ER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
129 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


+l 
i 
e 
excited tones to demonstrate their enthusiasm to others. They also probably have a 
few favorite phrases or simple arguments for interrupting conversations or shutting 
down smart-mouthed neonates, though they avoid using them too often at the risk 
of having them become little more than catchphrases. When angered, their eyes dart 
around, searching for threats, and their movements become fluid and dangerous like 
a hunting cat. Drawing up to full height and standing with one’s shoulders as broad 
as possible indicates strength, confidence and power without saying a word, and 
broad gestures help convey passion even in the most normal exchanges, though be 
careful to avoid overdoing them and draining them of their meaning. 
By contrast, the emissary’s behavior is very low-key. Her posture is straight, her 
expression pleasant or at worst neutral, and her tone is measured and respectful. She’s 
charged with building bridges between anarchs and Kindred, so she chooses her 
words carefully, never interrupts and listens patiently while others have their say. 
She’s reluctant to fight, but if she must she seeks to damage her opponent enough to 
allow herself to escape. Keep your chin up to maintain an air of dignity (though not 
painfully high, as that suggests arrogance), and avoid crossing your arms in favor of 
leaving them in your lap or working on something with your hands. Keep your body 
language close to yourself, with few large or sudden gestures, focusing instead on 
perfecting small, graceful movements. Avoid slang or profanity whenever possible, 
and select your words carefully so that they elicit the precise response you want 
without provoking unnecessary hostility or leaving them open to unwanted interpre- 
tations. When called upon to speak at court, use well-reasoned arguments as well as 
a dose of fiery rhetoric, and convey it all with professional decorum in mind. You are 
not some ranting radical, but a diplomat to a most dangerous nation, and thus while 
you must convey enthusiasm and belief in your cause, going too far over the top is 
likely to lose the respect of the very elders you seek to convince. 
These are both short examples of how you can take a few vocal tricks and basic 
body language modifications to convey a sense of a very different person than yourself 
from the very beginning. Take some time to build and practice a special way of 
speaking and carrying yourself when you work on your character. Once you have that 
in mind, you can even begin thinking about how you can change these different 
factors and common habits to reflect variations in your character’s mood, mental 
state or even Nature and Demeanor. Don’t get discouraged if nobody comments 
about your efforts right away; often other players take note of these things without 
mentioning them outright, even if they look on them favorably. It’s also possible you 
may be doing it so well they don’t immediately recognize it’s not how you normally 
are! But with enough time, you’ll find that other players will come to distinguish 
these unique mannerisms and identify them with your character in a way few other 
live-action characters achieve. 
WALKING 
THF WALK 
Anarch Missions 
You’ve already expressed your character’s first goal, and elaborated by forming 
one or more motivations based on your character’s relative age, circumstances of 
THL ANARCH 
GUIDE 
130 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


unlife and possibly clan. The process of forming your character’s individual identity 
is nearly complete. The final step is to consider how your character will spend her 
nights, and that means thinking about the different ways in which she’ll interact not 
only with the story but the other characters as well. Your character wants to 
encourage change, promote equality and redistribute power.. . but how? 
If you’re playing in an all-anarch chronicle, your character won’t lack for 
missions and other assigned activities. But in chronicles that focus mainly on the 
Sabbat or the Camarilla, you’ll want to make sure that in addition to the other 
motivations discussed in this chapter, your character also has a mission in her unlife. 
The best missions are longdterm assignments that your character can undertake 
continuously as part of her night-to-night existence: these afford you the best 
roleplaying opportunities because they support your character’s continuous develop- 
ment throughout the story. But one-shot and short-term missions can also be fun and 
add spice to the game. A few of both types of assignments appear below. 
Setting Up Shop 
When anarchs roll into a new city, somebody has to have a look around. Scouting 
out the lay of the land is usually a prelude to determining whether or not the local 
authority figures are currently greeting anarchs with open arms, loaded firearms or a 
reception somewhere in between these extremes. It’s usually wise to send one, two or 
even three anarchs into a city to check the situation, or maybe even to make ccntact 
with a cell if one is known to exist. If your character is assigned the “take a peek” task, 
remember that while you and yours may call what you’re doing “scouting,” the local 
Kindred or Cainites might call it “spying.” While the two activities are largely one and 
the same, being accused and found guilty of the latter can carry consequences many 
times more unpleasant than the former. To be clear: failing to mention that you’re a 
member of the Anarch Movement when you present yourself to the prince can and will 
come back to haunt you. On the other hand, admitting your political affiliation openly 
when you first hit town can be equally disastrous, so it’s probably best to keep this under 
your hat until you see which way the wind is blowing (which is what you’re supDosed 
to be doing in the first place, right?). 
Should you want to elicit the attention of potential recruits, you need to make 
your presence known. If you’re fortunate enough to be enjoying the company of a 
number of fellow anarchs- preferably a large number -you might be able to simply 
walk into the Elysium or other local Kindred hangout and say hello. If your group is 
sufficiently numerous, the Sheriff and her deputies probably can’t respond effect ively 
in short order, giving you time to have a look around. Of course, if you’ve chosen to 
enter the Elysium on your scouting mission, you can probably expect to be free from 
outright violence as long as you observe the same courtesy. Remember, the purpose 
of the scouting mission isn’t to wreak havoc or fire up the neonates, but to take a look 
at what you’re up against and make your presence known. Once they know you’re in 
town, curious neonates and disgruntled Kindred will eventually seek you out if they 
are interested in hearing your pitch. 
If you’re fortunate, the elders will do some of your recruiting for you. How they 
react to your presence will tell you a great deal about them and how the city is run, 
CHA~ER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
131 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


so pay attention to their initial responses. The moment they realize you’re in town, 
some of the conservative old bats will probably insist that their childer stay as far away 
from you as possible. The more paranoid among them might even arrange for their 
primogen to issue an edict barring all the members of their clan against fraternizing 
with the likes of you and your fellows. Don’t waste this golden opportunity to point 
out the bitter truth: the elders do not trust the younger generations, and are so fearful 
of losing their place that they are prepared to forbid mere interaction with their 
supposed enemy. You can’t buy publicity like that for any money! 
What It Takes: Scouting missions can be undertaken by any anarch, but the 
most successful usually rely on subtlety. Consequently, you’ll want Abilities like 
Inwestigation, Security, Subterfuge, Stealth and Streetwise to see you through. At least 
one member of the scouting party should have some Obfuscate for aiding in your 
departure from hot spots. 
Rousing the Rabble 
Whether its more moderate members care to admit it or not, the Anarch 
Movement depends on rousing the passions of those who might be sympathetic to its 
cause, and one method of fueling that fire is to take the message directly to the masses. 
Public discussion of the Anarch Movement’s hopes, ideals, goals and methods is part 
of recruitment. If nobody knows about the Cause, nobody’s going to join up, right? 
So somebody must seek out and interact with potential recruits. 
Some anarchs never miss an opportunity to turn each conversation around to 
the topic of the desperate need for greater equality among Cainites, and what the 
anarchs are doing to achieve it, regardless of the social situation or company. They 
reason that if they talk up the Cause often enough, eventually their words will fall 
on the right ears. The drawbacks of this approach include being dismissed as a broken 
record and, more importantly, attracting the attention of authority figures who won’t 
take kindly to your “subversive” dialogue. Other anarch characters, usually among 
the youngest or most frustrated of their ilk, seekout gatherings of Kindred or Cainites 
and deliberately set about trying to instigate immediate and radical change by 
exhorting their fellows to rise up on the spot. 
In ideal circumstances, your character would keep a low profile when proselytizing, 
maybe hanging out in the parts of town usually frequented by younger Licks, in order to 
minimize the chances of getting caught. If you’re playing in a chronicle that permits your 
character to engage in activities during the downtime between game sessions, there’s no 
reason your character can’t do exactly that. Your Storyteller will determine whether or 
not you encounter any other vampires and the result of your interactions with them. 
If you’re the type of firebrand who finds satisfaction in sounding the clarion call to 
action, you’ll probably find yourself with lots of opportunities to do that every time you 
set foot in a Kindred gathering. Chances are you won’t have to wait more than ten or 
fifteen minutes for an example of exactly why the time for political discourse is ended to 
present itself. Whether it’s the prince calling for the primogen to assemble for yet another 
round of pointless bickering, or the announcement of yet more grants of status to the 
harpy’s supporters, it’s revolting and all one to you. Seize on these opportunities and use 
them as object lessons for anyone who will listen - 
point out precisely what happened 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
132 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


and paint it terms that reflect poorly on the Camarilla’s power structure. Then suggest 
strongly that anyone with ashred of conscience can’t possibly stand by and let such abuses 
continue. Try to convey something of your own passions to your listeners: use your tone 
of voice to show that you’re outraged on their behalf, be expressive as possible with your 
vocabulary and raise your fist in self-righteous anger when calling for action. 
Don’t be annoyed with your audience if they start to heckle and shout out 
questions: this means you’ve engaged them in dialogue and have a genuine clppor- 
tunity to present them with some alternative points of view. (It’s when your targets 
ignore you and walk away that you should feel peeved.) If you’re successful at getting 
Kindred to listen to you, even for a few minutes, one of them will probably demand 
to know whether or not you’ve got any better ideas. The answer to their quesrion is 
an emphatic “Yes!” followed by a short list of bullet items that demonstrate you’re no 
false prophet. Be sure to include among your list of reforms pointed suggestions about 
how the righteous fury of the oppressed should fall, swiftly and harshly, on any elders 
or authority figures that have recently annoyed you. Use inclusive language like “we” 
and “us” when addressing your listeners: you want to plant the suggestion in their 
minds that they are already on your side, and vice versa. If there are neonates among 
your listeners, focus most of your attention on them and try to get their names so that 
you can seek them out later for further discussion. 
Your aim is not just to inflame: you also want to incite. Try to convince your 
listeners that the time for action isn’t tomorrow night or next week: it’s right now! 
If you’re really good or really lucky, your targets will be so caught up in your stirring 
rhetoric that they will commit an act of rebellion immediately. Try to goad them into 
committing acts of property damage and violence against those who have been their 
oppressors! But be alert for and ready to deal with the agents of the status quo when 
they focus their attention on your activities. You’re agitating for an end to the power 
structure on which their current security depends, and they won’t look kindly cn you 
for that. Ideally you’ll have a buddy along for the ride who can stand lookout and 
maybe even run interference, allowing you a few moments to pack up and get ‘out of 
harm’s way. Regardless, you’ll eventually run afoul of the local Sheriff or her deputies 
(or both, if you’re really unlucky), and be called upon to give some account of yourself 
and your activities. At that point you’re either going to have to shut up and move 
along (for now) or refuse to be silenced. If you choose to fight, understand that push 
is going to come to shove, and unless you think you can hold your own against 
multiple bruisers you’re going to be the shovee. 
What It Takes: Obviously, Physical Traits, Celerity and Fortitude are helpful in 
surviving in this role long enough to do some good for the Movement. Also key to 
your success are Social Traits that will help you seem appealing, or at least in earnest, 
to your targets. If you can field some Ability Traits such as Performance or Expsssion 
to make your message more palatable, so much the better. 
Vox Populi 
Another challenging (and again, very dangerous) assignment is being anemissary. 
If you’re playing the local baron’s ambassador or herald, you’ve really got your work cut 
out for you. You’ll be sent to negotiate with the local prince whenever tensions between 
CHA~ER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
133 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the Kindred and anarchs flare up, and considering the state of affairs in the Ivory Tower, 
the situation will almost always be tense. You might well be the only anarch that the 
Kindred don’t want to kick the moment they set eyes on you. By the same token, you 
may also be the anarchs’ only connection to the Camarilla that’s not automatically 
adversarial. This is a tough gig, so understand that in unfortunate circumstances either 
side might use you as a scapegoat: It should come as no surprise that creatures as 
passionate as Kindred sometimes tend to kill the messenger! But just because your 
associates may view you as an expendable member of the Movement doesn’t mean you 
have to share their interpretation of your role. By being good at what you do, you can 
look forward to a long and successful career as a go-between, and you might even 
manage to gain some status from both sides in the bargain.. . maybe. 
Since the anarchs are still nominally part of the Camarilla sect, you’ll often find 
yourself saddled with the unenviable task of trying to soothe ruffled feathers between the 
Ivory Tower and the Movement. A large part of your responsibilities will include trying 
to mitigate the punishments meted out to anarchs who violate Camarilla law and custom. 
To accomplish this, you need to know and understand these precepts as well as, if not 
better than, those who enforce them. The Law Ability could come in very handy when 
pleading your case before an irate prince, as could a few Traits of CumriUa Lore and a 
thorough grounding in the Traditions. More importantly, spend some time observing the 
authority figures with whom you’ll be negotiating and try to understand what motivates 
them. You won’t have alot of trinkets to bargain with, so be sure to take advantage of any 
intelligence about the local Kindred that you can gather, and have at least one level of 
Investigutiun so that you can dig for your own dirt if necessary. It would be very helpful to 
know, for example, that the Kindred have been suffering at the hands of a Sabbat pack 
or a marauding Lupine, or that open tension exists between two members of the 
primogen. Learning about such matters means keeping your ear to the ground and trying 
to create a network of your own informants who can supply you with such useful tidbits. 
If you can’t establish your ownspies, you’ll have to pay or bribe the 1ocalNosferatu to help 
you, and hope that someone else isn’t offering them even more to sell you out. 
Before you appear in front of the prince to plead your case, think about this praxis 
and what you know about the one who holds it. Does the prince see herself as an 
overburdened manager of nightly Kindred affairs, or an Old World tyrant who rules 
by the right and power of his blood? If you can be persuasive and placating by turns, 
you stand a fair chance of convincing either type of prince to mete out less severe 
punishments for minor infractions. For instance, with some eloquent persuasion you 
might be able to arrange for the accused Cainite to offer a boon to the prince as a 
means of repayment, rather than suffering exile or execution. Be sure that the target 
of the prince’s wrath actually pays the piper, however, or you may find yourself not 
only less effective in future missions but possibly standing surety for the negligent 
Cainite. If the prince refuses to accept any of the more common forms of repayment, 
try to determine exactly what he wants. If you’re lucky enough to speak for a baron, 
you might have something with which to bargain: intelligence about local Sabbat 
activities, resources and connections among the kine, or perhaps even knowledge 
about something or someone that the prince or another influential Kindred desires. 
t-
i
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
134 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Should you represent only your fellow anarchs without the benefit of a baron’s power, 
your own persuasive abilities may be all you have to barter with. 
What It Takes: Needless to say, a good selection of appropriate Social Traits is 
vital to your success as an emissary, as are Abilities that can help you persuade or beg 
effectively. Presence is the indispensable Discipline for ambassadors, though a little 
Dominate to get past the low-end obstacles or some Auspex to watch the moods of 
those you’re dealing with aren’t bad either. 
Out Come the Wolves 
Some anarch character concepts are built around the use of force as the most 
effective method of changing the status quo. You’ve already been warned aboui: what 
happens to those who live by the sword, but if you’re determined to paint a target on 
your head, that’s up to you. So what are the practicalities of taking away an asset of 
the enemy and making it yours? 
First, do your homework. What or who is the target? Will you undertake the raid 
during a game session or in the downtime? What tools or resources do you need ’Who 
owns what you’re trying to take or damage? How is it likely to be protected? 
Unplanned smash-and-grab missions rarely succeed, and the handful that do almost 
always lead to vicious repercussions later. The same goes for burning down a haven, 
destroying property owned by elders and hurting or killing ghouls who serve the 
Kindred. All these activities are types of raids, and they should be undertaken only 
after you’ve scoped out the enemy. You don’t want to pull into the parking garage 
where you planned to kick the stuffing out of a few ghouls who work for the Ventrue 
primogen, only to find a meeting of the local chapter of the Big Bad Sabbat Pack. 
Consider less obvious targets. If security at the prince’s downtown office building 
is simply too tight, maybe the influences of his newest childe are more vulnerable. 
Maybe you can’t get into the Nosferatu-controlled sewers, but you can probably 
locate and harass the homeless bums that keep the Sewer Rats abreast of news on the 
street. Use face-to-face interactions with other characters to ferret out the nature and 
types of their holdings. Don’t be afraid to make deals with other characters to gain 
this kind of information: whether or not you honor your boons could go a long way 
toward establishing your credibility with potential sources of useful dirt and gossip. 
Next, have a plan and stick to it. Know who is going to accomplish what task, 
and try to have some kind of contingency plan in case things go wrong. Work out your 
escape route in advance, maybe arranging for some diversionary tactics. Make the 
most of your supernatural assets: review the Disciplines and Abilities available to you 
and identify those that can help you get the job done and then get out again. 
Finally, understand and accept that, with rare exceptions, the typical raid only 
inconveniences the target. Actually gaining possession of the target of your raid 
should be only one of several goals. Raids (including unsuccessful ones) make noise 
and call attention to your cause. Be sure potential recruits hear about the raid, even 
if it’s too risky to cop to it personally. Raids also make great diversions. Mort: than 
one anarch pack has seized its true target while the sheriff and deputies were trying 
to deal with a convenient street riot or property fire. 
CHAPTER 
FOUR: ~
K
A
L
 
THINKING 
135 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


What It Takes: Mental Traits are key for planning successful raids, as are 
Backgrounds such as Allies, Contacts and Influence. These help you check out 
potential targets and conceal your activities from the watchful eyes of the elders. Try 
sending an ally or retainer into an art gallery you think is owned by Kindred and tell 
him to look for any obvious security devices or guards. Ask your contacts what’s been 
shaking lately among the city’s criminal element before you decide to whack that 
street dealer who’s one of the deputy’s little smack peddlers. Bureaucracy, Empathy 
and Investigation are helpful in wheedling useful information out of Kindred and kine, 
as are Auspex, Dominate and Presence powers. 
Obviously the raiders themselves should be equipped to handle trouble: Make 
sure they’re well-stocked with Physical, Blood and Willpower Traits before they 
strike. Every Discipline and power has its place in raiding: Obfuscate, Quietus and 
Obtenebration can hide raiders as they’re getting in and out of the target location. 
Naturally, Celerity, Fortitude, Potence and Protean, backed up with Brawl, Melee, 
Firearms and Security Abilities, can make the difference between getting out alive 
and not getting out at all. 
Shaken, Not Stirred 
So you’re playing a Bond, huh? Then hang onto your vodka martini, because 
you’re in for a dangerous ride. This kind of “fifth column” work requires you to 
become, at least outwardly, an example of what you’ve come to despise most, and so 
it’s generally not appropriate for Cainites who have less than a few decades of unlife 
under their belts. You need to understand the workings of the sect you’re planning 
to infiltrate; otherwise you won’t be of much use to your comrades. Your target is 
usually the Camarilla, though it’s not impossible to worm your way into a Sabbat pack 
if you’re a truly gifted actor and you’ve done your homework. Be sure to work with 
your Storyteller on this concept well in advance of introducing it into your chronicle: 
you’re essentially intending to play acharacter who is in turn playing a character, and 
that can get tricky (not to mention confusing). 
While it’s your task to agitate quietly on behalf of your comrades and to be their 
secret weapon, you can only push those who want to maintain the status quo so far, 
lest you betray your sympathies. On the surface you’re a firm believer in the value of 
the Camarilla sect, its Traditions and its conventions, but privately you’re always on 
the lookout for a new opportunity to cut the anarchs some needed slack. However, 
unless you want to risk blowing your cover, all your efforts to make a difference on 
behalf of the anarchs should be subtle. If you’re not moderate and temperate in your 
advocacy for changes within the domain or sect, all your work may be undone. 
Eventually, you’ll probably get caught. The reality of the live-action environ- 
ment is that no secret stays hidden for very long - 
and why should it, since the 
exposure of secrets is one of the most dramatic elements of the game? You should 
expect and prepare for the night when somebody tumbles to your charade. Know the 
risks when you choose to play this type of character. Your character should know the 
risks as well: if she’s caught, she can do tremendous damage to the local anarchs 
because of the specialized knowledge she carries in her head - 
knowledge that can 
be extracted through a variety of different methods, few of them pleasant. You can 
THHE 
ANARCH GJIDE 
136 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


reduce the dangers to your comrades through the simple expedient of not being told 
anything that’s not critical to your mission; even so you’ll probably be able to divulge 
at least some of the names and faces of local anarchs and their sympathizers. Be careful 
what you allow yourself to know about your fellows, for your own sake as well as theirs. 
If your cell has the means to create some mental safeguards in your head through 
careful use of Dominate, that could help you fend off initial assaults on your memories, 
at least long enough for a rescue party to arrive. But if you’re exposed, chanoes are 
you’ll eventually be dragged in front of a Kindred who’s a lot older and stronger than 
you are, and your secrets will be dragged out of you. 
So why undertake this mission if the risks are so high? For one thing, it can be 
a lot of fun despite the danger. The chameleon offers a lot of solid roleplaying 
opportunities for anarch characters, particularly those who intend to be around long 
enough to (hopefully) see their labors bear fruit. Your character might also do it for 
the sheer thrill - 
after all, what could be more exciting than subverting the system 
from within by hiding right under your enemy’s nose? Knowing that you’re putting 
one over on the enemy can be a tremendous rush. Or maybe you’re convinced that 
only by becoming a mole and working to better the anarchs’ lot from within the 
Camarilla can you accomplish something important. 
Regardless of your motivation, remember to be clear about your role: You’re a full- 
fledged and committed member of the Anarch Movement who is willing to jeopardize 
your reputation, holdings and safety to further the aims of the Cause. Your assignment 
is to convince everyone that you are a respected and respectable member of the status 
quo, preferably gaining a place within the very power structure that you’re trying to 
alter. You’ll probably have to become that individual in order to project a believable 
persona, so be prepared to suffer from periods of doubt and uncertainty, perhaps even 
moments of conflicting loyalties - but relish these opportunities for dramatic 
toleplaying! Aim for domain stations such as primogen or whip, perhaps even sheriff 
or deputy - 
you’ll be able to do more good in such roles than as a Keeper of Elysium 
or seneschal, because you’ll deal more directly and intimately with other Kindred on 
a night-to-night basis. All the more opportunities to push for change, not to mention 
that such posts generally don’t attract the same attention as the higher-ups. 
What It Takes: Because you’ll have to fool everybody all the time, load up on 
Traits that will help you dissemble convincingly: Expression, Performance and 
Subterfuge will be your best friends among the Abilities. Don’t skimp on the Emj>athy 
either, if you hope to monitor how believable your targets find your performance. Be 
sure your Social Traits are numerous and diverse enough to see you through in your 
nightly game of quiet warfare: when the seneschal is questioning you carefully about 
your political leanings is the wrong time to run out of Traits. Stocking up on 
Willpower is almost never a bad idea, both to keep your Traits up and help resist the 
powers that fly in the social setting in which you’ll be immersed. Needless to say, 
Presence and Dominate are both valuable for helping win over allies and fix slips in 
your cover, while Obfuscate and Obtenebration are vital for situations requiring 
genuine stealth. Auspex is also vital in ferreting out answers even clever lies can’t 
expose, and so some study of it is recommended to learn such buried secrets. 
CHAPTER FOUR RADICAL THINKING 
t 37 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


GAMES 
ANARCHISTS 
PLAY 
Unless you’re playing in an all-anarch chronicle, do not attempt to engage in any 
favorite anarch amusements where the Kindred can observe you. If you have to ask 
why you shouldn’t play a game of “Nines” in the vacant lot behind the art museum 
while the elders are enjoying the pleasures of the Elysium, we can only advise you to 
have your next character firmly in mind and ready to play. But when you’re hanging 
with your revolutionary buddies, it’s sometimes fun to cut loose and enjoy a few hours 
of respite from the grim and deadly world of undead political activism. 
Bear Baiting - 
A time-honored pastime among anarchs young and old, this is 
one of the few games anarchs play in full view of other Kindred. In fact, it’s played 
in the Elysium. The rules are simple: Without violating the letter of the law in 
Elysium, an anarch tries to goad, taunt or debate an elder into an embarrassing 
outburst (or frenzy, if the anarch thinks he can take the pounding). Needless to say, 
this kind of recreation is incredibly dangerous, and can have repercussions that reach 
far beyond the immediate problem of making an enemy out of the target elder. 
LA. Rouktte - 
Two anarchs stand facing one another and smash each other 
with a baseball bat, police baton, section of rebar or their fists until one of them gives 
up or falls into torpor. Although proponents of L.A. Roulette insist that it’s a kind 
of modern duel of honor, many dismiss it as a waste of time and good baseball bats. 
Pin the Tail on the Prince -Exactly what it sounds like, this variation on the mortal 
child’s party game features a prince rather than a donkey. Or rather it features an 
unfortunate anarch who represents the prince (some go so far as to dress him in clothes 
that mimic the local praxis holder). In this version of the game, the target is blindfolded 
and tries to escape the players, all of whom are attempting to attach a prop tail to his 
person, usually with a suitably sharp object such as a hunting knife or railroad spike. 
Obviously, this game often results in hurt feelings among those who play it. 
Nines - 
This pastime is suitable for play in deserted quarries, abandoned 
factories and just about any other place distant from the heart of the city. The game 
is similar to paintball, except that its players use real firearms with live ammunition. 
The exact rules vary from place to place, with the only common denominator being 
“no deliberate head shots.” Smart anarchs place lookouts nearby to warn them of 
approaching cops, innocent bystanders and furious sheriffs. A more deadly variation 
of this game, “Sixty-Nines,” pits the anarchs against a target or targets who are 
unaware they are playing a game. Final Death is rarely incurred during such games, 
at least for the anarchs, though serious injuries are understandably fairly common. 
Should the targets manage to fight their way out, the anarchs let them in on the 
“joke” and go off on their merry way, leaving their shattered and bewildered dupes 
to wonder exactly what happened to them. 
Note: Be mindful of the cardinal rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre. They always 
apply, even if your character is participating in a high-speed game of neonate tag 
through a crowded park. Fun as they may be when handled correctly, some of these 
games may be inappropriate for certain players, troupes or even venues, so use 
common sense and consult the Storyteller when in doubt about whether or not a 
particular game is appropriate. 
e
i
THL ANARCH 
GUIDE 
138 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHA~ER 
FOUR: RADICAL THINKING 
139 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Do not needlessly endanger your lives.. . until 
- 
Dwight Eisenhower 
I give you the signal. 
STORYTELLING 
ANARCH 
CHRONICLES 
Whether you’re integrating anarch characters into your existing Chronicle or 
establishing a new, all-anarch tale, this chapter provides you with the tools and 
information you need to create lasting and memorable stories for anarch char.xters. 
GFTTING 
STARTFD 
Anarchs do not exist in avacuum. If they did, their unlives (and your game) would 
be incredibly dull. The defining characteristic of the anarch existence is struggle. The 
revolutionaries of the Anarch Movement must continually be struggling for or against 
something, whether the decrees of an oppressive prince or the Sabbat’s hypoc:risy in 
dealing with its younger Brothers and Sisters. Your principle task as the Storyteller is 
to make sure that any and all anarch characters in your troupe have something with 
which they can match wits or cross swords. Sounds easy, right? Well, in some ways, it 
is that simple. But there are a few things you should probably think about before tossing 
a few of the prince’s bullyboys into the path of the oncoming anarch characters. 
KNOW 
YOURPLAYERS 
What do your players want out of the anarch character experience? Presumably 
the players who want to portray anarch personas have approached you about it, or vice 
versa. Either way, it should be obvious that you won’t railroad them into plots and 
e 
I 
CHAPTER 
Fix: So You WAW A REVOLUTON 
141 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


storylines they don’t care for. You need to know what your players want from the story 
so you can give it to them. Storytelling is largely a service industry, and good Chronicles 
are the result of understanding and cooperation between the Storyteller and the 
players. You might not be able to give them everything they want -you have a number 
of other players and the integrity of your Chronicle’s story to consider, after all -but 
you should at least make an effort to launch anarch-related stories in the right direction. 
Are the players hoping for a tense “Cold War” scenario in which they play cat and 
mouse against the prince and primogen through the halls of Elysium? Or maybe a 
nightly running fight for survival against the unrelenting scourge? How about a fast- 
paced action adventure yarn that pits them against a ductus and her loyal packmates? 
Talk to your anarch players before they create their characters: It’s best to figure 
out what your players’ preferences are before their characters actually enter play. This 
is particularly important when incorporating anarchs into your existing Chronicle. 
Preparing a coterie of armed revolutionaries dedicated to the violent overthrow of 
the Camarilla and then dropping them into your subtle Elysium-based game of 
political intrigue is a sure ticket to catastrophe. Then again, so is forming a cadre of 
dedicated non-violent proselytizers and tossing them into the midst of your free-for- 
all Sabbat pack game. Encourage anarch concepts that complement your story if you 
want to avoid an immediate surge of player disapproval. 
KNOW 
YOURSELF 
This chapter presumes that you have some experience as a Storyteller for Laws 
of the Night games. If you’re relatively new to the Storytelling gig, it’s important to 
realize now that this is one of the hardest roles in the game. Think it’s tough playing 
the Keeper of Elysium when the anarchs are tossing grenades into the art museum? 
That’s peanuts to the stress that Storytellers can expect in setting up and running just 
one game session for 30 players! In short, be sure you have the time and energy 
available to take on this responsibility. If you’re short on either one, you’ll have to 
readjust your schedule, hand the Storytelling reins over to somebody else or do what 
most beleaguered Storytellers do: seek Narrator help. 
THF BUILDING 
BLOCKS 
On the surface, anarch characters appear to want the very same things all 
Kindred want: security, comfort and power. The difference between the two camps 
is that the anarchs are quite willing to work outside socially accepted channels to get 
what they want. In fact, more often than not they’re forced to do so. This critical 
difference underscores and informs the key components of your anarch stories. 
~ F T T I N G  
When introducing anarchs into an established game, it’s a sure bet that the 
incoming anarch characters will interact and maybe clash with the existing charac- 
ters. Whether your setting is a single city or an entire country, it’s a good idea to 
identify at least one area within the setting that the anarchs can use as a relatively 
safe haven. This could be a single building, a city block, a neighborhood within a 
larger city or a whole town if your setting is large enough and your anarchs are 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
142 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


sufficiently numerous. Without a base of operations, the anarchs won’t last long no 
matter what the story is about. Then take a look at the mortal institutions that are 
important to your setting, and get ready to monitor any Background Traits tkat the 
anarch characters might utilize to make connections in these areas. Think about how 
the existing characters are likely to react when they become aware of the presence 
of anarchs, and how that might affect your setting. Is the prince likely to un11,mber 
his Police and Underworld Influences to strike at the revolutionaries? Does the scourge 
rely on his Allies to help him patrol the barrens where the anarchs are hiding out? 
Are the anarchs likely to stake out various physical locations in the city- museums, 
office buildings, havens and so on - 
where the elders and their lackeys might be 
spending time? Being prepared for these eventualities will help you integrate the 
anarch characters into your Chronicle more smoothly and also enable you to make 
the most of your setting’s potential. 
Determine how the indigenous vampire population will react to the anarchs, and 
how you’ll weave their attitudes and actions into your story. The Camarilla city might 
seem ready to tolerate the presence of anarchs, but individual Kindred will attempt 
either to oppose the anarchs or ensnare them in subtle political schemes. The Sabbat- 
held city is an exceedingly dangerous setting even for a Chronicle in which all the 
players are portraying anarchs: The Cainites won’t be tolerant of revolutionaries in 
their midst, and few packs will stop to argue philosophy or doctrine before launching 
direct attacks. Settings that include conflict between vampires of both sects, with the 
anarchs playing the wild card in the struggle between the two, can make for very rich 
and exciting stories. A story set in a Camarilla-held city plagued by scouting Sabbat 
packs that are the leading edge of an impending siege, or inside territory dominated by 
the Sword of Caine that’s suffering from Ivory Tower incursions, can help you illustrate 
the anarchs’ greater importance in the grand scheme of things. 
SCALE 
Scale for anarch stories comes into play primarily as the arbiter of how many 
anarch characters you’re willing to allow in the game. Chronicles built around the 
Camarilla can often sustain a sizable number of anarch characters, since the Ivory 
Tower is the traditional antagonist in stories featuring anarchs yet does not always have 
a kill-on-sight order for them either. Many anarchs operate routinely (if not conifort- 
ably) within the Camarilla, working toward changing its hidebound attitude; and 
oppressive social structure, and the Camarilla Kindred often tolerate these inconve- 
nient residents. Depending on how openly rebellious the anarch characters are, a good 
rule of thumb is one anarch character for every five Kindred. This number may grow 
as the anarchs recruit disgruntled neonates to their cause, or shrink as the elders work 
directly against the revolutionaries, but it provides a working baseline. If your 
Camarilla story focuses on social and political intrigue, count on the anarchs’ numbers 
to shrink rapidly if they show signs of making open war on the Kindred and their assets. 
In stories centered on the Sabbat, scale is often the deciding factor in determin- 
ing how long the anarch characters will survive. Unlife for anarchs in a 
Sabbat-dominated town is usually a nightly struggle for existence, and hopes for 
CHA~ER 
FIVE: So You WAN A REVOLUTION 
143 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


carrying out any revolutionary agendas are slim. Scale can get tricky in these stories, 
because the anarchs have little choice other than to violently oppose the Sabbat if 
they hope to stay alive. The right number of anarchs for Sabbat-centric stories varies 
depending on the style of the Chronicle. If the story includes a significant amount 
of political intrigue between rival powers, you could probably start with the same 
ratio as for Camarilla-centric stories (51). But in general, entire cities dominated by 
the Sword of Caine can support a small number of experienced and tough, or a larger 
number of desperate or clever, anarch characters. Suppose you’re telling the story of 
two rival Sabbat packs engaged in a street-level battle against the local Camarilla: 
How many anarch characters could you safely drop into the middle of this conflict? 
Too few and the Sabbat will simply destroy them out of hand: too many and they’ll 
likely change the entire nature of the Chronicle. You want enough anarchs to present 
the rival packs with options other than destroying the anarchs right away, but not so 
many that the Sabbat flee the city because they suddenly feel outnumbered. 
For all-anarch Chronicles, scale takes on a completely different meaning. All or 
nearly all of the players will be portraying anarch characters, so you don’t need to 
worry about total numbers. But you’ll need to take into consideration how many 
members of the various factions within the Anarch Movement you’re going to 
include. You’ll want to encourage a majority of idealist character concepts among the 
anarchs if your story features lots of social maneuvering or political intrigue, a 
preponderance of fiery revolutionaries if you anticipate a more action-oriented yarn, 
and a healthy balance of both for a Chronicle that shifts focus between the two 
extremes. After all, if all your players are anarchs, unless you want all your threats to 
be external and Storyteller-controlled, you’re going to need some seeds of personal 
rivalry between the players themselves. 
Scope 
Death to the prince! Down with the Ivory Tower! Long live the Anarch Free 
State of West Trenton! Scope is what’s at stake in your story: It’s the range of 
possibility for character action. What do the anarchs in your Chronicle hope to 
accomplish?Are they trying to usher the winds of change into their home city, or are 
they just trying to hang onto their scrap of turf out in the barrens? Probably the most 
important consideration in determining the scope of your story is who is involved in 
the central conflict. 
Be careful in setting the scope for games in which other players are playing the 
anarchs’ mainopposition, be they Kindred or Cainite. All the anarch characters in your 
story might have the long-term goal of overthrowing the prince throughviolent means, 
and then turning their home city into a haven for the Anarch Movement. But is this 
goal compatible with your story’s larger direction? Consider the consequences should 
the anarchs actually succeed in wresting control of the city from the prince and 
primogen through violent means. Will the other players - 
those whose characters are 
the hated oppressors -balk at the sudden shift in the game’s direction and focus? 
You might be tempted to allow the player characters to accomplish whatever they 
can legitimately get away with in the game. If the prince and primogen fail to detect 
the anarchs’ explosive device under the Elysium and perish in a blaze of fiery death, who 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
144 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


can blame the anarchs for then taking over the city? But believe it or not, this kind of 
laissez-faire approach to scope can quickly land your game in big trouble. Those who 
signed on for a Camarilla or Sabbat Chronicle might be left feeling a bit peeved if‘ their 
characters are suddenly unwelcome or unplayable en masse due to an anarch-backed 
uprising. And the reverse is also true: continually thwarting the anarchs’ attempt to 
achieve their goals through Storyteller fiat only produces dissatisfied anarch players. 
That’s not to say that the anarch characters shouldn’t be allowed to puraue or 
accomplish goals. But their goals and their methods of pursuit should fit the larger 
story you’re trying to tell. Anarch characters dropped into sect-oriented games 
should almost always have more limited goals that don’t involve the utter destruction 
of all the other player characters. Let them try to steal assets from the local Cainites 
in order to up their resources in preparation for a move to a safer and more permanent 
home, or combat the Harpy’s attempts to reinforce the social status quo by intriguing 
among Kindred movers and shakers. Always watch out for anarchs whose only goals 
hinge on victory through elimination of the other characters: Even in the best hands, 
such characters can quickly sow bitterness and bad feelings throughout the Chronicle. 
PLOT 
The plot is the sequence of events that moves your story forward from game to 
game. Most plots are a combination of Storyteller-created events and interactions 
between player characters: The one affects and informs the other, creating a story 
that’s the result of cooperative activity between you and your players. Good plots 
attract and hold the players’ interests: bad plots send the players fleeing for the 
corners, outside the game site or into the next county. Knowing your player:; and 
understanding their characters’ ambitions and goals will help you devise plots that 
are fun and memorable for all the participants, including yourself. 
You’ll find ideas for anarch stories all around you, in books, movies, television 
programs and the evening news. The struggle for freedom is a popular theme in many 
cultural expressions, and you should have no shortage of fictional and real-world 
inspirations. Look to the civil rights movement of the mid-to-late 20th century for 
plot ideas that focus on the struggle for equality. Check out some library books atbout 
the French Revolution or the War for American Independence for story seeds that 
feature violent uprisings against feudal societies - 
fertile ground for traditional 
anarch vs. Camarilla stories. 
Your best bet in devising anarch-related plots and subplots is to answer the question, 
“What do the anarchs want?” Identifying the anarch characters’ goals will help you decide 
how to focus your story’s direction. When you’re ready to sketch out the plots that will 
involve the anarch characters, review the goals that your players have established and use 
these as the foundations of your story arcs. You’ll find that working this out also helps you 
decide how best to introduce the anarch characters into existing Chronicles. 
PLOT 
STRUCTURES 
We the Kindred: Political Reform Plots 
Exploring the revolutionary heart of the Anarch Movement means exploring 
various socio-political philosophies and how they work (or don’t work) among the 
CHAPTER 
FIVE: So You Wm A REVOLUTION 
145 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


unliving. Typically, the hard-core revolutionaries are nomadic, sometimes by choice 
but usually by necessity: Their brand of zealotry tends to ensure that any welcome 
they receive in a Camarilla city wears thin quickly. Sometimes political-minded 
anarchs are so vocal and adamant in their views that they can’t interact effectively 
with the Kindred, unless the local prince is either tolerant or ineffective. Plots that 
focus on die-hard anarch rebels often work best in one of two sets of circumstances: 
The anarchs are Narrator characters working together as a small nomadic cell, or the 
revolutionaries are just one of several different types of anarchs in an all-anarch story. 
Revolutionary plots require direct conflict between opposing points of view. The 
battleground can be the halls of Elysium or the deserted streets of the barrens, but 
regardless of the venue the lines between the clashing philosophies should be clearly 
drawn. Paint the Camarilla oppression (or Sabbat fanaticism) with broad strokes, so 
that it contrasts visibly with the reforms the anarchs are pursuing. Violence is not 
uncommon in revolutionary plots, as the more radical anarchs support organized 
campaigns against the Camarilla in the hope of displacing the Ivory Tower’s grip on 
local resources. This kind of grass-roots activism works best, again, if the anarchs are 
Narrator characters - 
not because the anarchs in these plots are necessarily antago- 
nists, but because you want to be certain that the revolutionaries don’t try to wantonly 
destroy everyone who opposes them. To present the anarchs as a credible threat and 
give them a decent chance of survival in the early days of the plot, consider arranging 
for the radicals to hole up in a location that’s well suited to their agenda, such as a college 
campus or union-controlled factory. There the characters can gain access to resources, 
including mortal followers, which can support and prolong their cause without 
straining the story’s credibility from the beginning. 
Justice for All: Social Reform Plots 
Perhaps the most common source of the dissatisfaction and desperation that leads to 
the creation of anarchs is the social environment in which they are expected to survive. The 
Camarilla relies on a neo-feudal social structure to keep the princes (and, more importantly, 
the elders) at the top of the heap. Understandably, this is stultifying to Kindred who just a 
few short years ago were enjoying the unprecedented social and personal freedoms of the 
21st century, and many of them find that they simply can’t or won’t put up with that kind 
of crap. It’s bad enough that they’ve been turned into unliving, blood-drding monsters, 
but they’ve also got to smile and lick the boots of even more terrible monsters? The cliche 
“anarchs screaming at theprince”scenari0 is what most often comes to mind when thinking 
about social advancement. But a Chronicle built around social and cultural conflicts can 
be a rich roleplaying environment for your players. 
Anarchs are much closer to their mortal roots than most elders and ancillae, so 
they’re capable of keeping up with current mortal trends and fashions. Maybe the 
anarch characters open their own club, gallery or rave, making it more appealing than 
what the Kindred can make available by tapping into popular counter-culture music, 
language, fashions and dkcor. Suddenly the established Kindred aren’t the trendsetters 
among the mortal population of the city: That distinction goes now to the anarchs. 
Status seekers among the Kindred must either submit to the anarchs’ superiority in 
the social arena or compete with them. Which do you think they’re going to do? 
t
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
I46 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


-+ 
i 
C 
From here the story might branch in several different directions. The Kindred 
could try to move directly against the source of their embarrassment by attacking 
properties and even people with which the anarchs are associated: The same is true 
for the anarchs. The Kindred could attempt to fight back using their accumulated 
connections to the mortal world, such as their Influences, forcing the anarchs to 
expend their (probably much less extensive) resources to block the Kindred’s 
gambits. The anarchs may find themselves waging a guerrilla war without guns in 
order to hold on to what they’ve got, scrambling to stay ahead of the trend curve by 
scouting continuously for new acts and supporting their own avenues of success. Or 
they might resort to violence out of frustration: Turning the Malkavian whip’s latest 
rave into a free-for-all bar brawl could certainly generate some negative press. 
It’s important to remember that stories of this stripe are intended to be about 
anarchs, not about neonates who just want to appropriate the goodies that belong to 
their elders, or who like to hang out and jam to heavy metal music together. Anarchs 
have concerns that are tied to the emerging social scene, and that includes the black 
market for firearms, the illicit drug trade and peddling political influence. Angry 
neonates leaping for the brass ring aren’t necessarily anarchs, and vice versa. 
Share the Wealth: Economic Advancement Plots 
Some anarchs claim to be above the needs of filthy lucre, but not all of them share 
this sentiment. And is it really so surprising that anarchs might want to have their crack 
at enjoying the financial benefits of unlife? Eonomic reform plots in your Chronicle 
might focus on anarchs who start up their own companies, maybe in the high-tech or 
technical communications fields. The key here is to give the anarchs a chance to compete 
in new ways with the elders’ more traditional business interests. Is your Chronicle set in 
an area that’s dominated by a single industry? If so, chances are that some of the most 
powerful and influential characters in your game have ties to that industry. If the anarch 
characters can identify these holdings, they can attack them, directly or indirectly. Or the 
anarchs could try to muscle in on the more mundane businesses controlled by the 
Kindred, such as clothing boutiques, art galleries and trendy nightclubs. Who knows - 
with the mistakes of the past behind them, the anarch-run companies might prove 
successful where the over-hyped firms of the 1990s failed. 
No Justice, No Peace: Combat Plots 
It’s sometimes true that players choose anarchs because they want to beat on 
things until they break. If this is what your players really want, you have a 
responsibility to give it to them, so long as it doesn’t do the Chronicle as a whole a 
grave disservice. But running combat plots doesn’t mean every game must be a tllood- 
drenched, all-out melee to the death (or hours spent in tests and combat time). With 
a little preparation, you can turn a combat plot into a memorable and challenging 
roleplaying experience for your players. 
Rather than throwing a bunch of random enemies at your players - 
the scourge 
this week, shovelhead packs the next, etc. -plan out the individual battles so that 
the participants, objectives and stakes are clear for both sides. Where do the anarchs 
think they’re going to run into trouble? Maybe they’re planning a raid on a factory 
owned by the seneschal, intending to damage his ability to generate cash flow. Elefore 
GAPTER 
FIK So You WAN A RLVOLUTION 
147 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


the actual raid can take place, the anarchs must reconnoiter the target location and 
attempt to learn about its defenses, security and weak points. Determine before the 
battle what types of obstacles and hazards the anarchs will encounter, both mundane 
and supernatural, and note any key Narrator characters that may enter the fray on 
either side and the capabilities they’ll bring to the fight. Following that, jot down 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
148 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


some thoughts about what might happen should the anarchs fail in their mission - 
or more importantly, the long-term consequences if they succeed. If your players balk 
at doing “busy work” because they just want to get down to throwingpunches, remind 
them that battles are usually very fast, confusing encounters, and that victory 
generally goes to the side that did its homework on the enemy. 
The same holds true when antagonists come to call. Contrary to the belief of 
certain players, most vampires and other Supernatural creatures do not automatically 
fight to the death: Life and unlife are too precious to throw away merely to prove a point. 
The enemy should have objectives -drive off the invaders, kill an important fgure, 
rescue a hostage, capture a prisoner, etc. - 
and tactics that support them. An enemy 
trying to retake his lost turf fights differently than the foe whose main goal is to provide 
a diversion for the real assault that is coming later. It is also a common mistake that 
many enemies (supernatural and otherwise) fail to use anything but the most obvious 
and direct means of attacking their foes, in contrast to the nuanced Discipline use and 
painstaking mundane preparations employed by the players. Most often this happens 
when Storytellers make up enemies on the fly and don’t give them any thought beyond 
the immediate conflict. Your enemies often have access to supernatural powers and 
resources too - 
make sure they use them to their full advantage! 
The key to running good combat plots is to make the antagonists believable. 
Don’t just throw wave after wave of faceless deputies or anonymous Sabbat packs at 
the anarchs: Each and every opponent should be as motivated and goal-oriented as 
the anarchs themselves. Your players shouldn’t be sitting around the local anarch 
hangout waiting for the next antagonist to show up for a slugfest; they should be 
dealing with enemies who use the same tactics the anarchs are employing, such as 
scouting missions, infiltration attempts, strikes against vital resources, exploitation 
of weaknesses and so on. When convinced that they’re up against a thinking foe, the 
characters will feel like they’re at war, and that their victory is anything but 
guaranteed - 
and that is what gives good combat its edge. 
Warring In the Margins: AnarcheIndependent Conflicts 
Though it is less likely than all-out conflict with the sects, never forget that the 
independent clans have agendas of their own. That means anarchs can quickly 
become competition if they try to claim lands or influence the independents consider 
valuable. While these outsiders may not be able to claim the sheer depth of mundane 
resources that the sects can (though the Giovanni can come close if sufficiently 
roused), they are quite adept within their own niche and are typically much better 
versed at how to defend it from outsiders as well. More than one group of anarchs has 
moved into a small town or city neighborhood they thought was free, just because it 
had no sect presence, only to find they’ve intruded on the territory of an independent 
clan and are being targeted for retaliation accordingly. 
When plotting these conflicts, then, it is generally best to look at them as akin 
to guerrilla warfare campaigns: Unless the clan in question feels it has sufficient 
strength to banish or destroy the anarchs outright, it must force them out through 
more indirect ways. It also means that these clans will not pick fights they do nor feel 
they can win, but when they do act, they will do so with precision, having carefully 
CHAPTER 
Fa: So You WAN A REVOLUTION 
1 49 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


weighed all the relevant factors in advance. Most will make extensive use of mortal 
contacts, influence and favors to pressure the local revolutionaries, as well as create 
a broader field of targets and intermediaries the anarchs must work through to trace 
things back to them. Of course, should the clan members feel the need to become 
personally involved, things only get worse. Selective assassinations performed by 
skilled Assamites, vicious rumors spread by Setite manipulators, ruthless financial 
maneuvering by Giovanni corporate officers or destructive cons pulled by canny 
Ravnos can all make the anarchs’ unlives unbearable in short order. Even the 
Gangrel, while often more sympathetic than the others to the anarch cause, do not 
automatically welcome the presence of revolutionaries in their territory, and can use 
their mastery of animals to plague the anarchs with any number of persistent pest 
problems. And should the Outlander have Lupine allies.. . 
The Recruiting Ground: Sabbat-Anarch Plots 
Introducing anarch characters into a Sabbat Chronicle is usually more difficult 
than bringing the same characters into a Chronicle that focuses on the Camarilla. 
While Camarilla elders dislike the revolutionary screeds spouted by their young 
dissidents, they tolerate it a surprising amount of the time. Sabbat Cainites, on the 
other hand, don’t waste time trying to squelch dissent by bringing social or economic 
pressure to bear: They’re much more likely to destroy the little crybabies outright. A 
common misconception among newly minted anarchs is that the Sabbat is a source 
of potential allies and even comrades in the fight against Camarilla oppression. 
These newcomers don’t realize that for the Sabbat, “fight” means an all-out war to 
extinguish the enemy, not reform its political institutions! Sabbat Cainites already 
have equality, as far as they are concerned, so why bother fighting for a cause that’s 
already won? And the Sabbat’s ideology is aimed at something far more threatening 
than the petty politics of the Camarilla: the enemy sect’s Antediluvian masters. 
Threats to egalitarianism seem like pretty small potatoes compared to the danger of 
being messily devoured by some ravening, millennia-old monster. So there’s not 
much chance of the average anarch cell recruiting successfully from established 
Sabbat packs they encounter. 
With that in mind, the Sabbat makes a good antagonist for the all-anarch 
Chronicle (see below). Confrontations with the Sword of Caine can be effective 
contrasts to the more sophisticated conflicts against the Camarilla. Spring the Sabbat 
on the anarchs just as the characters are becoming complacent in their struggle against 
the local court, and watch the tone of the story change quickly. Have a few Sabbat 
vampires call on the anarchs and issue an ultimatum: either join up with us and help 
us take out the local Licks, or we’ll stake you out for the sun too. The anarchs might 
decide to comply, only to discover that unlife as a Sabbat ally may be as oppressed and 
unfair as being a Camarilla enemy. And what happens if the Sabbat prevails? The 
anarchs may find themselves members of a club that they really don’t want to belong 
to. The anarchs could also decide to shelve their grievances long enough to help the 
Camarilla drive out the invading Sabbat, but then they run the risk of losing any gains 
they’ve made. Worse, the prince and his supporters might blame the anarchs for 
drawing the attention of the Sabbat, and make their unlives more miserable than ever. 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
150 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Storytellers frequently fret that storylines centered around the conflict between 
anarchs and the Sabbat are too one-dimensional, becoming little more than battle after 
battle. Like most issues dealing with the undead, however, it need only be that 
simplistic if you want it to. Contrary to popular opinion, the Sabbat does not seek to 
solve every problem with endless waves of shovelheads or terrorist attacks by the :Black 
Hand. It can be quite patient, even seductive when it suits the needs of the sect to 
employ such methods. The Movement and the Sabbat were born together, after all, and 
especially once an anarch starts becoming bitter and disillusioned, the promises of the 
SwordofCaine become more and more enticing. For their part, the Sabbat is well aware 
of how easy it is for many anarchs, especially hardliners and others obsessed with 
victory, to start looking at the sect’s resources and organization and wonder what: they 
might be able to do with such assets at their disposal. From there, it’s just a few small 
steps to forging a formal alliance, and then maybe a conversion or two.. .. 
To that end, if you’re looking for an innovative approach to including the Sword 
of Caine in your Chronicle, resist the temptation to have the Sabbat come asff as 
heavy-handed and thuggish. While they’re perfectly capable of backing up th.reats 
they make, if they can win converts without a battle, so much the better. After all, 
anarchs are already one step removed from the Camarilla - 
this makes them that 
much more susceptible to the right promises and propaganda, especially if it’s voiced 
by a charismatic Sabbat member who isn’t the raving fanatic the anarchs will expect. 
Patience is definitely required to wait out their initial distrust, and any kind of 
violence against the anarchs by the Sabbat will ruin it utterly, but once that: first 
barrier is surpassed things become a lot easier for the recruiter. Many things the 
anarchs feel they need-numbers, 
training, resources, etc. -can be provided by the 
Sabbat, and their ideals aren’t too terribly different, especially when presented 1sy an 
eloquent speaker. Even those anarchs who remain unconvinced should still feel a 
definite conflict over what they have heard. 
Of course, if you still wish to run the Sabbat as nightmarish villains in your game, 
by all means go ahead. It is recommended, however, that you augment their physical 
ferocity by showcasing their twisted beliefs and practices as well. This not only elevates 
them beyond the level of mindless antagonists in the eyes of the players, but also adds 
to their horrific effect and further underscores that there but for the grace of Caine go 
the anarchs themselves. The important thing to remember when running storylines 
pitting the anarchs and the Sabbat against each other is that the Sabbat can serve as 
a hideous reflection of what the anarchs themselves might become, should they ;illow 
their crusade to devour their humanity and become their single all-consuming passion. 
THF ALL-ANARCH 
CHRONICLF 
So you want to dispense with the larger sects altogether and tell a story in which all 
or most of the characters are anarchs! Anarch-only Chronicles generally work best with 
arelatively smallnumberofplayers: Betweensix and adozenisoptimal. In thissort oftale, 
the details of the actual struggle for freedom will probably take a back seat to the 
relationships between the characters. How the anarchs relate to and interact with one 
another will be the principle source of the conflict and drama necessary to fuel the story. 
CHAFIR FNE: So You WANI A REVOL~KION 
151 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


The Storytelling advice in this chapter covers this type of Chronicle, too, but 
there are a few additional considerations to think about before you get started. For 
example, the character roles deserve special attention. Presumably all these anarchs 
have at least a nominal leader, and that individual needs to be portrayed by 
somebody. The other characters will naturally take their cue from the baron, pack 
leader or other authority figure, so consider whether you want to allow these 
leadership roles to develop organically during the course of the game, or if it’s safer 
to cast them and allow any changes to occur naturally as the story proceeds. Next 
you’ll want to determine exactly whom or what the anarchs are opposing. Are they 
fighting to bring change to a Camarilla-held city that’s recently suffered a mauling 
at the hands of a Sabbat siege? Maybe they’ve elected to make contact with raw 
Sabbat recruits who are members of a semi-nomadic pack. The question of loyalty 
could become key to the story, especially if any of the characters are older anarchs 
who begin to feel the pull of age and complacency wearing down their will to 
continue fighting the good fight. 
The uniquely anarch option for this type of Chronicle is the nomadic pack, and 
it’s particularly well suited to small troupes (six or less players is a good rule of thumb 
for a nomadic story). As the anarchs travel from city to city in the name of the Cause, 
they face perils not only from the Camarilla and the Sabbat, but also from marauding 
Lupines, curious mortals, motorcycle-riding witch-hunters and heaven knows what 
other threats. This is a story about the desperation and determination of a tightly knit 
group of fellow travelers. This type of Chronicle should be undertaken only by groups 
of players who are already comfortable with one another, because the actions of one 
character can dramatically affect all the others. 
Running nomadic anarch Chronicles can require a lot of additional work from the 
Storyteller. Every time the characters pack up and set out for a new destination, they 
must secure shelter, locate sustenance, disguise their identities, dodge pursuers, deal 
with authorities both mundane and supernatural and keep an eye out for Lupines. Some 
of these activities don’t make for especially interesting game sessions, so you could 
relegate them to the downtime and narrate them via email, telephone or over coffee. 
Alternately, you could devote a portion of each game session to taking care of the more 
mundane necessities of the nomadic unlifestyle, devising feeding and pursuit tests that 
help you reflect all the night-to-night dangers and difficulties facing the anarch road 
warriors. This type of Chronicle tends to be supporting-cast-heavy, because you’ll need 
to portray the different individuals with whom the players come into contact at stops 
along their journey. Maybe you have a few friends who weren’t able to commit to a 
regular game schedule but still want to be involved as time permits. No problem! These 
folks are the perfect choice to help you fill in the roles of the Sabbat packs, sheriffs and 
vampire hunters that your characters are bound to run into. 
THE FNFMY 
WITHIN 
Anarch characters don’t spend all their time scheming to overthrow the prince 
or planting bombs under cars. The same degree of variety that makes anarchs 
interesting and versatile characters also guarantees that internal struggles will erupt 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
152 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


within cells and packs. As a consequence, anarchs sometimes spend more time 
fighting one another than their opponents, a fact you should be quick to capitalize 
on to keep the Movement fresh and edgy in the minds of your players. 
If your Chronicle is focused on either of the two larger sects, any internal 
conflicts between anarch characters may spell their doom. Sometimes the seeds of 
these disagreements are planted by wily Kindred out to pit one anarch against 
another, while other times they are the natural result of the clashing Natures of two 
characters with differing visions of the road to victory against the sects. Or simple 
frustration at their lack of progress may lead them to turn against one another. 
Provided the source of the conflict is rooted in characters and the story, it’s usually 
safe to let it ride. Revolutions that fail, and the pattern of their failures, can make for 
very compelling stories, so allow the player characters to determine their fates 
without your help. Only when you notice or sense that the anarchs’ internal 
squabbling might be based on player relations, rather than those of their characters, 
should you step in and take the reins. 
Some common conflict archetypes for anarch vs. anarch conflicts are as follows: 
Gang vs. Gang 
Naturally enough, anarch gangs can and do fight over everything from revolution- 
ary ideals to old grudges to business practices to simple turf wars. A gang devoted to 
freeing mankind from the influence of vampires entirely and creating a separate 
vampire nation, for instance, is bound to grapple with the other gang across town that 
believes vampires are the next stage of evolution and are thus allowed to do as they 
please with humans. Likewise, two gangs that both wish to control the local drug trade 
- 
or historical societies, or political primaries, or what have you - 
are bound to 
exchange some harsh words unless they can hammer out an agreement both sides find 
amenable, and fast. While in theory all gangs are part of the Movement and thus should 
at least respect the divergent views of their fellow revolutionaries, in practice when 
dealing with such a passionate and outspoken group as anarchs, conflict of some kind 
is bound to occur. Even if the players are part of a gang that’s trying to keep the peace 
between warring packs, there’s still more than enough material for a good Storyteller 
to keep all sides interested for a long time to come. From political maneuvers and 
backroom intrigue to bloodshed on the streets, the Masquerade is perhaps the on117 limit 
on what gangs will do in a war - 
and even that can be stretched or broken if the battle 
becomes particularly vicious. If anything, the knowledge that sects will almost certainly 
attempt to exploit the conflict among the anarch ranks only makes these wars that 
much more brutal, as all sides seek to resolve the conflict as quickly as possible in order 
to prepare for the inevitable threats from without. 
In this scenario, serious violence is all but destined to erupt as one gang seeks to 
assert its dominance in an indisputable fashion over another. Furthermore, barring 
intervention by the baron or the local council, such conflict is likely to continue until 
one gang is either destroyed, run out of town or so thoroughly broken as to be cowed 
into submission - 
once the gauntlet is thrown down, all the gangs involved know 
that only one of them will come out on top. Survival thus means either crushing an 
opponent or siding with the gang that does, and such conflicts frequently cause a 
CHAFER Fa: So You WAN A RLVOUUION 
153 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


flurry of communication between local anarchs as lines are drawn and alliances made 
or broken to keep up with the current climate. Players must not only watch out for 
members of gangs with an active rivalry against their own, but also work to make sure 
other gangs in the area aren’t aligning with their rivals. 
Set vs. Set 
In this tense, tightly wound scenario, the players find themselves part of feuding sets 
in a larger gang. Whether from ideological differences, territory conflicts or personal 
animosity, they are locked in a struggle to define their own place in the gang and perhaps 
push out or eliminate their rivals in the process. Perhaps one is a younger, up-and-coming 
set that has its eye on territory held by an older set, or maybe a new leader has galvanized 
his set to challenge for leadership of the gang. Regardless of their composition, the 
different groups find themselves locked in a feud that has no easy resolution. (Or at least 
none that all parties consider acceptable.) Despite their vows of loyalty, anarchs are still 
as ambitious as any other undead, and when they set their sights on something they are 
amazingly persistent. Players find their characters’ loyalties to their sets constantly tested 
as the other side cajoles or threatens them to make them defect to the “winning team,” 
and they must take care to hide their vicious power plays behind a unified front when 
attending gang meetings or facing down mutual enemies. 
Unlike inter-gang warfare, it is much more likely that the different sets must rely 
on less direct means in order to achieve their goals - 
overt violence not only threatens 
the gang’s internal stability, but also makes the gang look weak and divided in the eyes 
of its enemies. Sets that try to resolve their conflicts with more than a few simple brawls 
or duels of honor will thus likely find the gang leadership coming down on them 
harshly, possibly even kicking them out if it means saving the reputation of the gang 
as a whole. However, short of that kind of negative attention, all those involved know 
that anything goes -bribes, blackmail, extortion, theft, rumor-mongering, poaching 
ghouls or even the occasional assassination are all par for the course. So long as the sets 
don’t threaten the gang’s reputation, the leadership may even covertly encourage some 
competition between sets in this fashion, particularly if the members are stylish about 
their rivalry. Not only does it keep the members alert and at the top of their game, but 
it also distracts them from challenging for leadership themselves. 
Faction vs. Faction 
Perhaps the most basic dispute among anarchs, one that can lead to every other type 
of conflict imaginable, is the conflict that arises when two anarchs of differing political 
impulses butt heads. While as a rule anarch factions aren’t crystallized into formal political 
partiesorevenrecognizablegroups, thefactremainsthatwhenanihilist andaconstruction- 
ist enter the same territory, some sparks are bound to fly. As part of the same set, they may 
cause serious dissension among their fellow members as they seek to win their hen& over 
to their views and discredit their rivals at the same time. As leaders of different sets in the 
same gang, they can easily cause set feuding as described above, especially if they both hope 
to influence the gang’s leadership into pushing their personal agendas. And as leaders of 
different gangs, mere proximity to such a deep ideological rival has been known to ignite 
conflicts that set whole cities on fire as the two groups attempt to preserve their territories 
and prove their ideological superiority in the most grimly efficient manner possible. 
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
154 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Most ofthe time, it takeslittleeffortbytheStorytellertosetoffsomekindoffactiona1 
conflict. Players frequently start such feuds themselves in the course of a regular session, 
as their characters compare their views on unlife and the political state of the undead. 
Even if the players themselves are composed of largely amenable impulses, simply placing 
a Narrator character or two with radically opposing views in a prominent place among 
the city’s anarchs is usually enough to ensure that the players eventually come into 
conflict with their philosophical rivals. Such is the nature of politics and opposing 
viewpoints within the Movement -rare indeed are anarchs willing to let others preach 
conflicting ideals without attempting to give some kind of rebuttal. 
CHAPTER 
FIVE: So You Wm A REVOLUTION 
155 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


TROUBLESHOOTING 
THF TROUBLF3OMF 
This is all the stuff you don’t want to think about, but that you’re going to have 
to deal with as a Storyteller. Fortunately, there are few problems that can’t be solved 
by working with your players and ensuring that everyone knows the main goal of the 
story is to have fun! 
Mindless Violence 
For Chronicles that focus on the Camarilla or Sabbat, anarch-sponsored 
mindless violence can be the bane of the entire enterprise. Keep an eye out for anarch 
characters who routinely send their enemies to the Final Death in the name of 
“revolution,” especially when there’s no real rationale to do so. Similarly, watch for 
players whose Kindred or Cainite characters treat all anarchs as nothing more than 
moving dirt, and who regularly greet anarch Narrator characters with a barrage of 
lethal Discipline powers. Such a player may be indulging in gratuitous in-character 
violence, particularly if he defends his actions with an explanation like, “but that’s 
what my character’s all about.” In-character motivation is clearly important to each 
player’s persona, but it can also be a shield players use to hide from the out-of- 
character consequences of their inappropriate actions. Anarch characters don’t exist 
to be killed on a whim any more than Camarilla or Sabbat characters do. In order for 
a Chronicle to thrive and endure, all players must make some concession to the fact 
that the characters must sometimes co-exist in the same setting. 
The single most difficult problem that any Laws of the Night game faces when 
anarchs enter the picture is the tension between the in-character violence, crudity 
and disruption that such characters can cause, and the out-of-game feelings of the 
players involved. In a game that includes characters plotting one another’s injury and 
death, it’s easy to understand how feelings can become frayed and hurt when players 
believe the negative treatment their characters receive is a reflection of how other 
players think and feel about them in an out-of-game context. The line between in- 
game and out-of-game conflicts should always be distinct, but unfortunately it 
sometimes grows razor thin. This happens frequently when anarch characters come 
into play, because such characters are often automatically opposed to whichever 
faction is currently in power. But true anarchs don’t show up without good reason: 
they should have a purpose in the game, and their role is as valid and conducive to 
a good story as that of any other character. Keep the lines of communication open 
between your players, and encourage them to give this material its due. It’s worth 
restating that you’re not obligated to allow any player to have an anarch character 
if he can’t handle the supporting themes and stories. 
Why Are We Here? 
While Camarilla courts may hold Elysium parties or Sabbat packs gather to 
perform various rites, it may seem that anarchs have less in the way of motivation to 
gather in the numbers that other vampires do. In mixed games, this might not be as 
much of a problem, since anarchs are unlikely to be a significant majority, and thus 
their major gatherings will probably be player-instigated and held as informal side 
games outside of the regular play sessions. However, in all-anarch or other primarily 
anarch games, it can quickly become a concern. While raves may provide excellent 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
156 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


opportunities to showcase a gathering of anarchs, if every game session is supposed 
to be some kind of rave, the players will quickly become bored with a format that is 
supposed to be edgy and exciting. Instead, mix up the format as much as possible - 
have one game be the more standard meeting of the gangs called by the baton to 
discuss common objectives, but another be a wild party celebrating a recent victory 
(or the wake of a fallen character or gang). Another game could be an intrigue-laden 
visit to a nearby Camarilla court staffed by Narrator characters, while yet another 
could be an exploratory venture into an elder’s recently abandoned haven, etc. Part 
of the charm of playing an anarch is a departure from the same old, same old of the 
sects - 
use it to your advantage! 
Perhaps you can even work out a schedule of some kind, such as having the baron 
call a general meeting once every other month, and then allow the actions of the 
players to determine what the other sessions will be. Indeed, players whose characters 
routinely host gatherings for fellow anarchs might gain some Reputation, for 
instance, as a means of helping promote this way of thinking and encouraging players 
to put together their own gatherings. This allows the players to feel as though their 
actions have a real impact on the nature of the game, and further distances them from 
the endless Elysium gatherings or tired pack rites of the sects. Just make sure that all 
the characters have at least some reason to be there-action-oriented characters can 
still act as bodyguards during more social gatherings, for instance, while more social 
types can act as diversions for particularly daring raids. 
Frustration and Boredom 
Players of anarch characters can sometimes grow bored with their characters, 
usually because they are frustrated with their inability to make headway against their 
chosen targets, be they Camarilla or Sabbat. This problem is especially common to 
Chronicles in which the anarch characters are the decided minority amid a much 
larger group of Kindred. Players are only human, after all, and as such are much less 
patient than the vampires they are portraying: An anarch character might be willing 
to wait years or even decades to bring a plan to fruition, but her player would like it 
to happen this month. Keep an eye out for players whose anarch characters start off 
strong on roleplaying but quickly devolve into walking gunslingers, taking potshots 
at any Kindred unlucky enough to stray near them. There’s seldom a clearer 
indication that a player has become bored or frustrated with his character or the story 
than a sudden shift toward violent in-character behavior. Take a look at the 
character’s goals and think about the scope you’ve established for your game. [s the 
character pursuing achievable goals that are appropriate to your Chronicle? An 
anarch planning to turn his city into the next Free State is probably thinking too big 
for a sect-based story, and some revision may be in order. 
If the anarch character’s goals are in line with your story’s scope, resist the 
temptation to shield her from the consequences of her actions. Anarchs shouldn’t be 
able to get away with murder, literally or figuratively, just because they’re anarchs and 
not members of a sect. Few things are more frustrating than trying to portray a 
conservative, hard-line Camarilla character and being artificially blocked from 
giving the local anarchs their just desserts on the grounds that they, too, are player 
CHAPTER 
FIVE: So You WANT A REVOLUTION 
157 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


characters. This is especially true if the anarchs behave in a fashion that would 
definitely result in destruction, were they Narrator characters. Make sure both sides 
know the rules and limits for their conflicts, both in-game and out, and realize that 
they will be held equally accountable. 
One of the Concepts Is Not Like the Others 
Don’t be afraid to say no to a character concept that just doesn’t mesh well with 
the underlying principles of the Anarch Movement or the overall scheme of your 
Chronicle. That’s part of your role as the Storyteller, and your players look to you to 
make sure all characters are appropriate to the story. While it’s always to the benefit of 
your Chronicle to think outside the common stereotypes, that doesn’t mean some 
guidelines aren’t helpful and necessary. Characters who are associated with the anarchs 
first and foremost need some plausible reason to become affiliated with the Movement. 
While logical rationales can run the gamut from a desire to effect genuine social 
change among the damned to simply seeking new thrills on a Saturday night, some 
motivations just don’t make sense. ATzimisce isn’t going to voluntarily join up with 
the Anarch Movement because he just doesn’t have any stake in working toward a 
reformed Camarilla, not to mention the fact that merely considering such a move 
probably forfeits his unlife in the unforgiving eyes of his clan. The same is true for the 
Giovanni and many Followers of Set: Their respective agendas are progressing just 
fine without the necessity of hooking up with a bunch of social and political outcasts, 
thank you very much. 
Last, be on the lookout for players who confuse “anarch” with “unstoppable 
Caitiff killing machine with wild and crazy Disciplines,” “min-maxed super thug,” or 
any other character with the maximum possible number of advantageous Traits and 
very little personality to back it up. Such players are likely to try to use these same 
unlikely Trait combinations as part of the reason they joined in the first place - 
“I’m 
an outcast because, uh, I killed a whole lot of people and, um, everybody was jealous 
of my massive studliness” -but 
don’t let them bully you just because they took the 
time to write some stats down on paper. Just because a Trait is available in a book 
doesn’t mean it’s available in your game, especially if it looks like the player has 
chosen it for sheer power as opposed to playing a more interesting character. First and 
foremost, a character must be able to make a positive contribution to the game, 
otherwise she doesn’t belong. You should always feel free to deny a concept that’s not 
appropriate to your Chronicle; the long-term benefits of doing so far outweigh the 
short-term hassle, not least because your other players will thank you for choosing a 
good story over rote game mechanics. 
THE ANARCH GIDE 
158 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAPIER FIVE: % YOU WANT A kvoluno~ 
159 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Do you know your place 
In the big charade? 
Are you more than They? 
- 
Bad Religion, “Leaders and Followers” 
PORTRAIT 
GALLFRY 
Here are some sample templates for a spectrum of different anarch characters 
that you as the Storyteller can use either as quick, ready-made supportin!, 
7 cast 
members for an existing game or as pre-generated characters for your players. Feel free 
to copy, modify or otherwise adjust these characters for use in your game; however, 
note that most of these archetypes are not characters of starting-level power, and 
treat them accordingly. It’s one thing if you bring in a powerful and respected 
character using the Baron archetype provided here, but giving one player that 
archetype to play when all the other characters are standard starting ones may inspire 
some harsh feelings. 
Remember that these characters are archetypes, and thus to some extent 
stereotypes as well. They were written this way to facilitate their rapid inclusion into 
an ongoing chronicle, but one should never downplay the wide variety of beliefs and 
opinions that various anarchs bring to the Movement. 
THE BARON 
Clan: Toreador 
Nature: Fanatic 
Demeanor: Director 
Generation: 9th 
Physical Traits ( 10): Brutal x2, Ferocious, Quick x3, Tenacious, Energetic x2, Graceful 
CHAFER Sa FAC‘ACES 
IN THE CROWD 
161 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Social Traits (11): Charming, Commanding x2, Charismatic x3, Magnetic, 
MentalTraits(8):A~~x2,Cr~~,Determtnedx2,lntuitiw,Viw, 
Wily,Vwh(N) 
Abilities: Academics x2, Brawl x2, Computer, Dodge x3, Empathy, Etiquette, 
Disciplines: 
Auspex: Heightened Senses, Aura Perception, Spirit’s Touch, Telepathy 
Celerity: Alacrity, Swiftness, Rapidity 
Dominate: Command, Mesmerism 
Fortitude: Endurance, Mettle 
Presence: Awe, Dread Gaze, Entrancement, Summon, Majesty 
Path: Humanity 4 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-control 3, Courage 5 
Backgrounds: Resources x2, Allies x2, Contacts x3, Influences: Street x2, Under- 
Merits: Natural Leader, Enchanting Voice 
Flaws: Vengeful (Camarilla Kindred who ran drugs on your beat) 
Status/Reputation: Advocate, Committed, Famous, Feared, Speaker, Soldier, 
Blood: 14 
Willpower: 6 
Roleplaying Hints: You know the tide is finally turning for the anarchs since the 
Ivory Tower is beginning to show the cracks of age and decay. However, the local 
anarchs are immature and need someone to help them think straight, otherwise they’d 
get a bit too reckless and bring the wrath of who-knows-what upon you all. Your years 
of experience as an undercover cop have benefited the Movement, in the planning 
skills it taught you and the knack it fostered for being exactly who you need to be for 
the people you’re with at the time. Having a good heart made you empathize with the 
plight of the inner city poor and work to better their situation by cleaning up the streets 
they called home. It also attracted the attention of your sire, a free-thinking radical 
author and literary champion of the downtrodden who saw in you a true compassion 
for the poor of the neighborhoods you patrolled. Freedom and self-determination based 
on merit drive you and make you hate the Sabbat’s false egalitarianism -you 
are also 
an extremely gifted speaker, thanks to a combination of your sire’s painstaking 
instruction and agreat deal ofnatural talent. Some of the younger anarchs give you crap 
when they learn your clan - 
what, like there’s some law that you have to be Brujah 
for this kind of gig?- but few make that mistake twice after seeing you in action, either 
at “court” or out on the streets. You like to see yourself as the proverbial tough but fair 
leader - 
you expect everyone in your gang to pull her own weight and stay focused, 
and in return you respect others’ opinions and do your best to look out for them however 
you can. There’s no room for slackers on your beat, though, and obnoxious loudmouths 
and clueless firebrands will quickly find themselves asked to leave. 
Persuasive x2, Empathic x2 
Firearms x2, Leadership x3, Performance (Acting) x3, Scrounge, Streetwise x2 
world x2, Police 
Tested, Respected, Warrior 
P
I
THE ANARCH 
GUIDE 
162 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


THE 
EMISSARY 
Clan: Brujah 
Nature: Soldier 
Demeanor: Architect 
Generation: 11 th 
Physical Traits (8): Tough x2, Nimble, Agile, Enduring x2, Tireless, Vigorous 
Social Traits (10): Dignged, Intimidating, Beguilingx2, Channingx2, Dph!tic x2, 
Mental Traits (8): Determined x3, Alert x2, Vigilant, Cunning, Knowledpeabk 
Abilities: Awareness, Academics x2, Dodge x2, Firearms x2, Melee, Finance x2, 
Disciplines: 
Celerity: Alacrity, Swiftness, Rapidity 
Potence: Prowess, Might 
Presence: Awe, Dread Gaze, Entrancement 
Path: Humanity 3 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-control 4, Courage 2 
Backgrounds: Herd, Retainers x2, Resources x3, Influences: High Society x2, 
Finance x3, Media x2, Political x3 
Merits: Eidetic Memory 
Flaws: Sire’s Resentment 
Status/Reputation: Advocate, Champion, Committed, Connected, Respected, Speaker 
Blood: 12 
Willpower: 5 
Roleplaying Hints: Designer business suits, gourmet cuisine, suites at fine hotels - 
this was the world you knew before you were Embraced. Your sire was one of the original 
wealthy rags-to-riches financiers in life, and still fancied himself a great philanthropist 
and philosophical “friend of the common man,” although in truth he was more prone to 
armchair debates about human rights than taking action. Still, as far as you could see the 
others of your clan were little better than loudmouthed rabble, so you stayed close to your 
sire and were rewarded for your loyal service with a rising star in the Camarilla. However, 
something never sat quite right with you about your role. A couple of years after your 
release, you went in search of that elusive something you felt was missing from your 
stagnantunlifeand yourdiplomatic dutiesforyourclan. You foundwhat you weremissing 
when a firebrand you met at a nightclub told you the truth about Kindred society, After 
five consecutive nights of deep debate at that same location, you cast your lot with the 
Anarch Movement, to your sire’s eternal shame and frustration. Now you serve the area’s 
anarchs as their loyal emissary to the local court, using your Camarilla connections to 
smooth over rough incidents and ensure that your brethrenare treated fairly by the prince. 
That alone keeps you quite busy, but you secretly hope that greater good will come ‘2f the 
endless boons, secrets and mortal contacts - 
that you might one day inspire another to 
break free as you did from the archaic restraints placed upon him by the elders. 
Ingratiating x2 
Intimidation x2, Investigation x3, Leadership, Subterfuge x3, Etiquette x3, Politics x3 
C H A ~ R  
SIX: FACES IN THE CROWD 
163 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


CHAMFLFON 
Clan: Caitiff 
Nature: Rebel 
Demeanor: Dabbler 
Generation: 10th 
Physical Traits (8) : Quick x2, Tough x2, Agile, Graceful x2, Robust, Delicate (N) 
Social Traits (10): Eloquent, Gorgeous x2, Churning, C m m d n g x 2 ,  Ingratiating, 
MentalTraits (lZ):Amtiwe, Cratiwex3, Ihsciplinedx2, Insightful, Knowledgeablex2, 
Abilities: Athletics, Expert Ability: Counterfeiting x4, Dodge x2, Melee x2, 
Disciplines: 
Dominate: Command, Mesmerism, Forgetful Mind 
Obfuscate: Cloak of Shadows, Unseen Presence, Mask of a Thousand Faces 
Presence: Awe, Dread Gaze 
Path: Humanity 3 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self Control 4, Courage 3 
Backgrounds: Allies x3, Resources x3, Herd, Influences: Burammy x3, Churchx2, 
Merits: Daredewil, Personal Masquerade (Malkavian) 
Flaws: Dark Secret (Anarch spy) 
Status/Reputation: Camarilla: Acknowledged, Cultured, Respected. Anarch: 
Committed, Bond (Girl) 
Blood: 13 
Willpower: 4 
Roleplaying Hints: You are a member of the Camarilla in good standing, 
believed to be the prodigal childe of a particularly insightful sire who was an advisor 
to the past prince. As such, you have status, prestige within your clan and two very 
big - 
and very dangerous -secrets. 
First, you are not really a Malkavian, but merely 
passing as one; the real childe of the previous seer was a friend of yours among the 
anarchs who met Final Death at the hands of the Sabbat almost a decade ago. Since 
her sire disappeared mysteriously a few years back, though, it’s unlikely anyone will 
be able to call your bluff. (Faking insanity isn’t that hard most of the time, especially 
when you used to know the model onwhom you’re basing your act.) Besides, the court 
was happy enough to have its previous advisor’s favored childe return from hiatus to 
fill the void, and you are more than happy to oblige them. Second, you are not a 
Camarilla Kindred, you are an anarch, and have been since your Embrace almost 
three decades ago. You relish letting the arrogant Camarilla stooges believe they are 
pulling your strings, and pretend not to hear when they snicker at the suffering of the 
“poor Lunatic.” You’ve made yourself useful with a combination of pseudo-mystical 
pronouncements and cleverly couched information fed to the prince in the guise of 
Seductive x2, Witty, Callous (N) 
Rejlectiwe x2, Shrewd 
Perfornunce (Acting) x2, Subterfuge x3, Occult, Politics x2, Intimidation 
High Society, Sweet x2, Law x2 
+
I
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
164 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


“prophecies” that your fellow revolutionaries are only too happy to help ensure come 
to pass just often enough to keep the court listening to you. Your true value )to the 
Movement has yet to come to light, however. For the time being you are a sleeper, 
quietly building the court’s trust in you while waiting for a particularly inspired 
opportunity to buck the system and do some real damage before skipping town again. 
SMUGGLER 
Clan: Gangrel 
Nature: Caregiver 
Demeanor: Bravo 
Generation: 13th 
PhysicalTraits (10): Brawnyx2, Robustx2, Ferociousx2, Quickx2, Rugged, Brutal 
Social Traits (6): Charismatic, Chming, Gena x2, Perstmiwe, Eloquat, Bestial (N) 
, 
Mental Traits (7): Alert, Dedicated, Determined, Cunning, Intuitiwe, Wise x2, 
Abilities: Animal Ken, Surwiwal x3, Brawl x4, Scrounge x2, Stealth, Repair x2, 
Disciplines: 
Auspex: Heightened Senses 
Fortitude: Endurance, Mettle, Resilience 
Protean: Eyes of the Beast, Feral Claws, Earth Meld 
Path: Humanity 3 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self Control 3, Courage 5 
Backgrounds: Allies x3, Mentor, Influence: Transportation x4 
Merits: Lucky, Common Sense 
Status/Reputation: Committed , Hardcore 
Blood: 10 
Willpower: 2 
Roleplaying Hints: Your travels as a long-haul truck driver have made you 
extremely tough and adaptable, even for an Outlander. You eke out a living driving 
loads of soap powder, machine parts, vegetables, contraband and - 
don’t forget - 
vampires from city to city, night to night. Most of your business is understandably 
conducted under the table; your cell phone rings and you find out your itinerary for 
the next couple nights. That’s fine with you. Fuel up, make sure you’re under the 
weight requirement to keep moving and avoid fines, make the pickup and drive on 
through, swearing and cuffing the ears (if not removing them outright) of anyone 
who dares get in your way. You have aresponsibility to the anarchs, the Autarkis, the 
Unbound or whoever it was that hired you for this run; so long as their money’s good 
and they don’t give you too much trouble, you’re happy. Not that you’re entirely 
mercenary - 
while you may not be a true believer in the ideas of the Anarch Revolt, 
you absolutely loathe the sects. Their occasional bribes or threats to try to force you 
Ferd (N) 
Impatient (N) 
Dodge, Drive x3, Finance 
t- 
i 
CHAmER SC FACK IN WE CROWD 
165 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


to give up your passengers or your routes are always greeted with cold stares or brutally 
efficient bursts of violence. Their goons and their merchandise are likewise not 
something you’re interested in transporting, no matter what the price. You’ll take 
anyone else who needs a ride from city to city and can tolerate eight-plus hours locked 
in a dark cramped metal box moving at 65 mph. After all, someone’s got to look out 
for them, and you want to travel. Roadblocks? What roadblocks? 
THF WFTWORKFR 
Clan: Malkavian 
Nature: Judge 
Demeanor: Judge 
Generation: 9th (by diablerie) 
PhysicalTraits (13): Dexterous x2, Energeticx2, Gracefulx2, Quickx3, Steadyx2, 
Social Traits (9): Diplomatic x2, Intimldatingx3, Alluring, Beguiling x2, Seductiwe, 
Mental Traits ( 13): Alert x3, Cunning x2, Discerning x3, knowledgeable x2, 
Abilities: Athletics x2, Brawl x2, Dodge x2, Melee x3, Firearms x2, Crafts: 
Disciplines: 
Auspex: Heightened Senses, Aura Perception, Spirit’s Touch 
Celerity: Alacrity 
Fortitude: Endurance 
Obfuscate: Cloak of Shadows, Unseen Presence, Mask of a Thousand Faces, 
Vanish From the Mind’s Eye 
Dementation: Passion, The Haunting, Eyes of Chaos 
Path: Humanity 2 
Virtues: Conscience 1, Self Control 3, Courage 3 
Backgrounds: Resources x2 
Derangement: Dissociative Disorder (See Laws of the Reckoning; in short, 
nothing seems entirely real, like unlife is one big video game or happening to 
someone else. If this is unsuitable, substitute Paranoia instead.) 
Tough x2 
Callous x2 (N) 
Patient x2, Wily 
Gunsmithing x2, Demolitions x2, Investigation x3, Stealth x2, Streetwise, Security x3 
Merits: Light Sleeper, Ambidextrous, Catlike Balance 
Flaws: Enemy (an Archon who knows you’re an assassin), Nightmares 
Status/Reputation:Cmmitted, Feared, Hardcore, Soldier, Tested, Thug (N) 
, Wanior 
Blood: 14 
Willpower: 7 
Roleplaying Hints: As soon as you were old enough you enlisted in the armed 
forces, where your unique moral.. . flexibility qualified you to receive extra training in 
the killing arts, conditioning of which even many officers on base weren’t aware. But 
as good as you were with your assignments, your problems with authority and 
t
\ 
THE ANARCH 
C~IDL 
166 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


increasingly obvious disregard for human life eventually earned you a dishonorable 
discharge, though the sensitive nature of your assignments spared you prison time. 
After the service, you wandered aimlessly from town to town and job to job until a bar 
fight ended with two people crippled and three others dead by your bare hands. You 
didn’t fight the police when they came to arrest you, figuring it would be good to be 
someplacewarmfor a while anyway.Thenfate-inthe formofyour sire-intervened, 
wrecking the police car and stealing you into the night. You were swiftly Embraced, 
third-generation anarch - 
and an infamously chaotic and unreliable killer wanted by 
several cities for various crimes. Your sire had witnessed your bloody deed with 
fascinated glee and decided your skills could be put to good use in ridding the 
Movement of undesirables. Turns out he was more right than he knew -after learning 
about your new unlife, the evils of the sects and the righteousness of the Anarch Revolt, 
youdecided your sire was just one such impediment to the Cause. Once you ascertained 
he’d taught you all he could, you eliminated him just as dispassionately as any of your 
past victims. That was years ago, and you’ve done the dirty work for the anarchs ever 
since. You know what needs to be done and to whom, and are highly effective at 
accomplishing the job. For all the acclaim you receive, you take care never to linger in 
one place for long, lest the other anarchs realize just how disturbed you really are and 
try to get you to change your ways. That would be.. . unfortunate. 
NOMADIC 
PACK 
LEADER 
Clan: Caitiff 
Nature: Penitent 
Demeanor: Director 
Generation: 12th 
Physical Traits (10): Brawny x2, Enduring x2, Ferociousx2, Wiry, Stai’wart, 
Toughx2, Clumsy (N) 
Social Traits (7): Commndingx2, Friendly x2, Ingratiating, Charismatic, Magnetic 
Mental Traits (7): Insightful x2, Observant, Clever x2, Determined, Cunning, 
Intuitive 
Abilities: Academics, Awareness, Brawl x2, Dodge, Medicine x2, lntimidztion, 
Leadership x2, Melee x2, Streetwise x3 
Disciplines: 
Potence: Prowess, Might, Vigor 
Auspex: Heightened Senses 
Animalism: Feral Whispers 
Dominate: Command, Mesmerism, Forgetful Mind 
Path: Humanity 4 
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self Control 5, Courage 4 
Backgrounds: Contacts x2, Allies x2, Influences: Street x2, Church x3, Medicine x2 
Merits: Calm Heart, Natural Leader 
Flaws: Deep Sleeper, Repelled by Crosses 
Status/Reputation: Committed, Compussionute, True Believer 
CHAPER Sc FACLS IN ME 
CROWD 
167 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood: 11 
Willpower: 2 
Roleplaying Hints: You still tend to the needs of the poor and downtrodden, even 
after it happened and you were damned forever. But that was a long time ago, and even 
through all your trials the Lord never told you to give up, so now you put the other 
circuit preachers’ tips to a different use - 
helping you keep an eye out for your new 
“flock,” a scruffy gang of anarchs and other castoffs you guide from city to city. Despite 
your own state as one of the damned, you remain a real people person, and take care 
to ensure that everyone who follows you keeps his nose clean, his language respectful 
and most importantly his eyes open as you carry the message of libertas from city to city. 
If others are willing to listen, you are willing to tell them who to speak with in your 
group. Together you wander wherever the road takes you, using the cheapest way to get 
from here to there. Once your group even splurged and crossed over to Europe; it was 
exhilarating, but much more oppressive there as well, and coming home never felt quite 
sogood. You’reanatural-bornleader; it is ashame you havesuchadismalpedigree. Your 
own status as one of the Devil’s own, as evidenced by your inability to face across, deeply 
troubles you, and this inner guilt and anguish give your eyes aperpetual sad cast behind 
your cheerful smile and friendly voice. Never let it show, though - 
the Movement is 
more important than your personal troubles, and as you see it, redemption will only 
come to those who have faith and persevere as stoically as possible. 
Fx-SARRAT 
RECRUIT 
Clan: Lasombra 
Nature: Competitor 
Demeanor: Survivor 
Generation: 13th 
Physical Traits (8): Brutal x2, Lithe x2, Tough x2, Quick x2 
Social Traits (6): Magnetic, Seductive, Gorgeous, Commanding x2, Charismatic 
Mental Traits (9): Ckwer x2, Cunningx2, Creative, Determined, Dedicated, Wily x2 
Abilities: Brawl, Dodge, Drive, Intimidation x2, Streetwise, Subterfuge, Surwiwal x2, 
Disciplines: 
Potence: Prowess, Might 
Obtenebration: Shadow Play, Shroud of Night 
Path: Humanity 2 
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self Control 3, Courage 3 
Backgrounds: Resources, Contacts, Influence: Underworld 
Merits: Unbondabk 
Flaws: F b h  of the Corpse, Touch of Frost 
Statusrneputation: Committed, Marked 
Blood: 10 
Willpower: 3 
Computer, h w ,  Linguistics (Spanish), Sabbat Lore x2 
THL ANARCH GUIDE 
168 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Roleplaying Hints: In the barrio, life was one long fight. On the night cf your 
Quinque Ans, you walked back with your girlfriends to your grandmother’s house, 
but thanks to a roving War Party none of you ever made it there. Only your sheer will 
to survive allowed you to climb through the earth after your Embrace, and combined 
with your natural adaptability you managed to pull through those first few battles in 
one piece, though horribly scarred in the process. No matter what the sect leaders told 
you, though, you could never stomach the bloodthirsty rhetoric of the Sword of 
Caine. Maybe if they’d given you a choice, you might have come to their side, but 
given the slaughter of your friends and your own (carefully hidden) resistance to the 
Vaulderie, it was only a matter of time before you rose early one night, torched the 
communal haven and fled to the north. Unfortunately, the Sabbat knows you 
survived and still hunts you whenever they turn up word of you in a new city, keeping 
you perpetually on the run. The anarchs offered the only viable alternative to being 
on your own, but over time you’ve actually come to embrace many of their ideals - 
you subscribe to the Anarch Free Press, are an extremely vocal participant in many 
raves and have even helped lead several raiding parties. You hide your pride in your 
skills and your affection for your new friends behind a mask of cool detachment, but 
if things keep going this way for much longer you might eventually mature into one 
hell of a good gang leader. 
ROGUE 
WARLOCK 
Clan: Tremere 
Nature: Thrill-Seeker 
Demeanor: Competitor 
Generation: 1 1 th 
Physical Traits (9): Brutal, Enduring, Nimble x2, Quick x2, Steady, Tough x2 
Social Traits (10): Alluring x2, Beguiling, Dignified x2, Empathic, Eloquent, 
Ingratiating x2, Persuasive, Condescending (N) 
Mental Traits (1 1): Alert, Cunning, Knowledgeable x3, Determined, Disciplinczdx3, 
Rational x2 
Abilities: Academics (Theology) x4, Occult x3, Awareness x2, Linguistics x3 
(Latin, Greek and Hebrew), Medicine, Melee, Science x2, Subterfuge, Dodge x2, 
Disciplines: 
Auspex: Heightened Senses, Aura Perception, Spirit’s Touch, Telepathy 
Thaumaturgy: Taste for Blood, Blood Rage, Blood of Potency 
Rituals: Deflection of the Wooden Doom, Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion, 
Path: Humanity 3 
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self Control 3, and Courage 2 
Backgrounds: Resources x2, Retainers, Influences: Occult x3 
Merits: Lucky, Oracular Ability 
Flaws: Phobia, Probationary Sect Member 
Status/Reputation: Committed, Hook-Up 
Wake With Evening’s Freshness, Ward Versus Vitae 
CHAPTER SK: FACES IN THE CROWD 
1 69 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Blood: 12 
Willpower: 4 
Roleplaying Hints: A rebellious occultist, radical theologian and part-time prophet 
in life, you caught the Warlocks‘ eye early on, and after a suitable period of time you were 
approached for the Embrace. Contrary to the meritocracy you’d been promised, however, 
it took long decades to rise through the pyramid to just a mid-ranking apprentice for your 
local chantry. You bided your time, waiting for an opportunity to prove your worth to rise 
to Regent. At last it came, and with no small amount of triumphant glee, you presented 
evidence proving the local Regent had become Blood Bound to an outsider and was giving 
orders that violated the Tremere Oath. Unfortunately, you had no idea that the canny old 
Regent had been tracking your movementS for some time. She managed to turn the 
accusation backagainstyouasavile slander tocoverup for yourowncrimesagainst theclan 
(carefully manufactured in advance, of course). Even after all that time, you’d been 
ourrnaneuvered-itwasyourwordagainsttheRegent’s.Naturally, youneverhadachance. 
Knowing what must be in store for you, you bolted, taking only your ritual clothes and the 
few tomes you had borrowed from the library. Luck finally went your way, and you managed 
to escape, eventually falling in with the anarchs. They mistrust you and you’re fine with that 
- 
after the experiences you suffered at the hands of your own clan, you can understand why 
they’re a little skittish. But they seem closer than anyone to establishing the meritocracy 
you’ve sought throughout life and undeath, and for that kind of goal you’re willing to be 
patient. As it is, they generally leave you alone to do research and only call on you to play 
the role of the wise occult sage when something strange happens. What troubles you is that, 
while certainly more versed in the occult and bizarre than most anarchs, you also learned 
just enough to realize there’s a lot more out there than you understand. That more than 
anything kightens you every time you get a call demanding your “expertise.” 
THF MI~~TAKF 
Clan: Caitiff 
Nature: Monster 
Demeanor: Deviant 
Generation: 13th 
Physical Traits (8): Agile x2, Tough x2, Tireless, Quick x2, Nimble 
Social Traits (8): Empathic x2, Expressive, Friendly x2, Seductive, Gorgeous x2, 
Eerie (N) 
Mental Traits (10): Creative x2, Determined x2, insightful x2, Observant, Wily x2, 
Wise, Violent (N) 
Abilities: Athletics, Dodge, Empathy x3, Expression x4, Performance x3, 
Disciplines: 
Dementation: Passion 
Fortitude: Endurance 
Melpominee: The Missing Voice, Phantom Speaker, Madrigal 
Presence: Awe 
Path: Humanity 3 
e-
l 
THE ANARCH QIDE 
170 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Virtues: Conscience 2, Self Control 3, Courage 4 
Backgrounds: Allies x2, Fame x2, Resources x2, Herd x2, Mentor 
Derangement: Sadism 
Merits: Bright Aura 
Flaws: Light-Sensitiwe, Sire’s Resentment, Thin Blood 
Status/Reputation: Committed, Cherry (N) 
, Unenlightened (N) 
Blood: 10 
Willpower: 2 
Roleplaying Hints: Lead singer for a struggling dark wave band, you were Embraced 
just a few months ago by a mysterious sire smitten by your otherworldly looks and 
beautifully discordant vocal style. Unfortunately, “something was wrong with your 
blood” and he abandoned you only nights after your Embrace. You probably would’ve 
been destroyed out of sheer nayvet6 had not another fan been watching the whole drama 
from afar, a Malkavian anarch who rescued you and taught you what you needed to know 
about your new unlife. After explaining your absence as a bout of “creative ennui,” your 
band has returned to gain stronger reviews and a larger following than ever. It seems like 
everyone wants a piece of you now -gigs 
to play, contracts to sign, sessions to record and 
so on, but you love the attention. You’ve even gotten a contract to model for a local 
alternative clothing store; your face is on posters in the shopping malls, which amuses you 
no end. Feeding has never been easier, but the Masquerade is getting more and more 
difficult, and your mentor keeps telling you it might all have to go soon to avoid bringing 
down the wrath of the Camarilla. If he only knew what you’ve done to some of your fans 
behind closed doors, he might try to get your contracts canceled tonight, but what he 
doesn’t know.. . let’s just say that the rest of the band just thinks you’re taking your 
extreme bloodletting and vampiric “stage persona” too seriously. Gigs and money are 
coming easier than ever, so if they have questions they’re keeping them to themselves. 
Your lust for aberrant pleasures is getting harder to control, and the justifications far not 
indulging yourself likewise sound more and more artificial as time goes by. Nobody 
suspects that a “pretty face” like you might be up to the kinds of things you enjoy; indeed, 
most of your fellow anarchs assume you’re some kind of strutting vampire poser just 
because of the music you play. Let them. You’re just getting started, after all. 
THE R ULLY 
Clan: Nosferatu 
Nature: Bravo 
Demeanor: Curmudgeon 
Generation: 12 th 
Physical Traits (10): Brawny x2, Brutal x2, Tough x2, Nimble x2, Energetic x2 
Social Traits (9): Beguiling, Expressiwe, Commndingx2, Intimidatingx3, Pmua- 
Mental Traits (8): Alert, Cunning, Determined, Disciplined x2, Patient, Wily x2 
Abilities: Brawl x4, Dodge x2, Firearms, Athletics, Streetwise, Melee, Scrcunge, 
sioe x2, Tactless (N) 
lntimidation x2 
CHAPTER 
SIX: FACS IN THE CROW 
171 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Disciplines: 
Celerity: Alacrity 
Fortitude: Endurance 
Obfuscate: Cloak of Shadows, Unseen Presence, Mask of a Thousand Faces 
Potence: Prowess, Might, Vigor 
Path: Humanity 2 
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self Control 3, Courage 4 
Backgrounds: Contacts x2, Influence: Underworld, Sweet 
Flaws: Short Fuse 
Status/Reputation: Committed, Feared, Tested, Thug (N) 
Blood: 11 
Willpower: 2 
Roleplaying Hints: Everybody gets angry sometimes. You just happen to lose your 
cool more often than most. As a child, you were always getting into fights; when you got 
older, you decided to make a career of it. Never able to crack the big leagues, you 
eventually settled into life on the underground boxing circuit, drinking heavily and 
taking out your frustrations on those unfortunate enough to be in the ring with you. One 
night you were chosen for the Embrace by a Camarilla member looking for a ready 
bodyguard - 
so what if your face suffered for it? You were stronger and faster than ever, 
and if the girls still didn’t like you much, so much the worse for the next poor bastard you 
had to work over. You have a natural talent for physical Disciplines, and picked up a few 
tricks to startle opponents used to Sewer Rats being big and slow. Unlife held a steady 
routine of shakedowns, face-offs and relocations for you, until one night you were kicking 
back at a biker bar and looking for a fight, and the anarchs approached you. You were 
stronger, but they fought as a team, and in the end they brought you down and beat you 
to the brink of torpor. While you struggled to heal, they launched into the reason why 
they singled you out. You were being exploited, used by your sire and his so-called allies 
to reinforce the same kind of status quo that had ground down your dreams while you were 
alive. As much as your pride stung at the beating you’d received, you got angrier the more 
you thought about being little more than acommodity to those who claimed to value your 
talents. In that moment you realized you were walking down the same path you had when 
you were alive, only this one would never end - 
at least until your sire sent you against 
someone bigger and meaner than you. When you were able, you stormed out of the club 
and killed your sire, then skipped town with the anarchs. Since then you’ve earned aplace 
of some respect; while you know that most still write you off as little more than a thug, 
at least nobody gives you orders anymore. Besides, you’ve got a few surprises up your sleeve; 
unlife really isn’t all it’s cracked up to be, but at least you’re free. 
THF O B ~ F ~ ~ E - D  
GHOUL-FRIFND 
Nature: Hedonist 
Demeanor: Conformist 
Physical Traits (8) : Tough x2, Enduring, &le 
x2, Brutal x2, Ferocious, Nafue (N) 
Social Traits (5): Gorgeous x2, Ingratiating, Seductive x2 
THE ANARCH 
&ID[ 
172 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Mental Traits (4): Ckver, Attentive, Wily, Insightful 
Abilities: Computer, Drive, Empathy, Firearms x2, lnvestigation 
Disciplines: 
Potence: Prowess 
Path: Humanity 4 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 2, Courage 4 
Backgrounds: Allies, Mentor x2, Influences: lndustry x2, Street 
Flaws: Phobia (Rodents), Soft-Hearted 
Status/Reputation: Committed 
Blood: 3 
Willpower: 2 
Roleplaying Hints: Younever put muchthought into your futureduring junic,r high 
and high school; you were much more concerned with hanging out and drinking than 
trying to get into a great college. Then came the baby, with no father in sight, and you 
had to find a better job than part-timing down at the convenience store. Working 
graveyard shifts at the tool-and-die factory wasn’t exactly cool, but it kept you and your 
babyaliveandpaidthebills.Yousoughtanyescape,fiombooze topills tounsafesex, living 
only in the moment. Then one night you met her, and your world turned upside-down. 
Sheseemedalittleout ofplace in yoursmall town withherexpensiveclothesand polished 
manners, but you didn’t care. Even though you’d never been attracted to another woman 
before, you fell hard, and almost couldn’t believe your luck when she returned your 
affection. Within weeks she got you straight, helped you find a better apartment and 
showed younew thrills youhadn’t suspectedexisted before. Not long into the relationship 
she revealed her true nature to you, but by then it didn’t matter that she was a vampire, 
or that she needed your help dealing with the union officials at the plant. For a few wild 
weeks, the two of you were on top of the world, thanks to a well-timed seduction of your 
supervisor and some supernatural talents your girlfriend employed - 
the plant and thus 
the town seemed to be within your grasp, and you’d never felt so powerful, so alive. Then 
something went wrong, something to do with another, older vampire wanting what your 
girlfriend had. She never told you what went on during that meeting, but when she came 
out she said you both had to leave immediately. You didn’t want to leave your son behind, 
but what could you do? She needed you, and your mother could always take care cf him 
anyway, so you left him on your parents’ doorstep and fled. Since then you’ve gone from 
city to city trying to find someplace to call your own. She still needs you and you love her 
all themore for that; watching over her as she sleeps is more of a joy than a duty, and you’ll 
do anything to keep her safe. You don’t understand some of her friends and their 
“Movement,” but so what? You have each other, and that’s all that matters. 
CHA~ER 
SIX FACES IN THE CROW 
173 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


FIRST 
AMONG 
EQUALS 
ANARCH 
REPUTATION 
Much as they might claim otherwise, anarchs have no real structure and most 
gangs function independently of others, meeting occasionally in raves to exchange 
war stories and compare notes on how to achieve their goals. As such, they pride 
themselves on being above the petty social games of the Camarilla or the savage 
infighting of the Sabbat, where wars spanning centuries have been waged about 
perceived slights against one’s good name and a single scandal or defeat can spell the 
end of a centuries-old Kindred. However, this is not to say that anarchs don’t play 
games of their own regarding standing within the Movement and the respect of their 
peers; they just go about it a bit differently than their fellow Kindred do. Unlike the 
sects, an anarch’s Reputation is not based on position, rites or generation- indeed, 
even a ghoul can have a Reputation among the anarchs. Rather, revolutionaries gain 
or lose Reputation by their deeds alone, as judged by their comrades-in-arms. In an 
abstract sense, this should mean that merit and personal achievement on the part of 
dedicated revolutionaries are rewarded without the vicious trappings of conven- 
tional status games. 
In practice, however, it means that some anarchs spend as much time building 
and defending their Reputations as many sect members spend pursuing Status in 
the eyes of their peers. They become like inner-city gang lords who mock the 
country clubs and society snobbery of the city’s elite, only to turn around and 
viciously destroy those who offer them even the slightest hint of disrespect. Or as 
one anarch sage wryly noted: “A lot of the neonates keep using a high school 
metaphor that depicts us as the rebels and outsiders pitted against the fashionable 
Camarilla in-crowd or the tough Sabbat jocks. They forget that even the outcasts 
still have a pecking order.” Seeing only the possible gains that come from carving 
out their own niches, these anarchs fail to realize that they are perpetuating the 
same power games they claim to despise, selling out their principles for the sake of 
a name that inspires respect. 
Make no mistake, however - 
even anarchs who pursue such good standing 
with their peers recognize that it is still fundamentally different from the more 
rigid and codified systems of the sects. When your approval rests in the hands of 
the mob, however sympathetic that mob may generally be, you’re standing on 
thin ice, and anarchs concerned with their Reputations are well aware of it. 
While an anarch’s Reputation may carry throughout the Movement and inspire 
fear or respect in revolutionaries across the country, individuals still suffer no 
penalty whatsoever for ignoring it except whatever punishment the anarch can 
bring down on the upstart. In other words, a Reputation is worth as much pull as 
the audience wants to give it, so canny anarchs don’t try to ride Reputation alone, 
or they risk losing it quickly. It’s a simple truth: If you abuse your Reputation, you 
will lose it. 
But if you can hold on to it.. . such are legends made of. 
THE ANARCH GJIDE 
174 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


~UTTINGYOUR 
MONFY 
WHPRFYOURMOUTHIS 
REPUTATION 
MECHANICS 
Anarchs can use Reputation Traits in all the same ways as Camarilla or S'abbat 
Status - 
Reputation can be added to Social Challenges, loaned as a favor, etc. - 
with the following changes. First, other anarchs suffer no penalty for ignoring 
Reputation use in a challenge, save whatever punishment the character with 
Reputationcan levy for disrespecting her standing in the Movement. (Few dedicated 
revolutionaries take such slights against their good names lightly, so would-be 
upstarts beware.) Second, anarch Reputation Traits newer apply against Camarilla or 
Sabbat vampires, just as Status in those sects never applies against the anarchs. Third, 
although an anarch with greater Reputation is more likely to be believed than one 
with less in a casual setting, Reputation is not the final factor that decides whose word 
is accepted as it is in the sects. All anarchs are considered equal in the eyes of their 
fellows regarding disciplinary proceedings or criminal accusations, or at least, if there 
is corruption in the process, it doesn't lie at the Reputation stage of the proceedings. 
Finally, the normal rules for gaining and losing Status have been changed somewhat. 
Among the anarchs, clan standing or the whims of hoary old elders do not determine 
CHAPKR Sc FACES IN ME 
CROWD 
175 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Reputation, but rather recognition by one’s fellow revolutionaries for what a 
character has achieved (or failed to achieve). See the section below for how to handle 
gains and losses among this volatile group. 
See Laws of the Night, page 216, for more details on common uses for 
Reputation and how to apply this valuable commodity in vampire society. 
GAINING 
AND LOSING 
REPUTATION 
Temporary Reputation Change 
Losing or gaining temporary ReputationTraits is incredibly easy. All it takes to 
award or remove a temporary Reputation Trait is a majority vote of the anarchs 
present at any particular gathering, not including the character in question. (Thus, 
a solitary anarch cannot vote himself into a great deal of Reputation in this manner, 
since it is intended to indicate the current “buzz” of the local anarch community.) 
This informal vote can be conducted at any time during the evening, or even on 
multiple occasions during particularly wild or unpredictable nights. A character still 
may not gain more temporary Reputation than twice the number of permanent 
Reputation Traits she has in this fashion (including Committed) - 
even a burst of 
approval from one’s peers is not enough to truly radically alter a character’s standing. 
However, anarchs who routinely receive a lot of positive temporary Reputation in 
this fashion are often leading candidates to receive more permanent Reputation 
awards at the next big rave. Exactly how often such changes take place depends on 
the anarchs inquestion-some 
more stable gangs seldom call suchvotes, while more 
political packs may call for these votes constantly. In the end, the anarchs themselves 
decide when such opinion polls are necessary. 
System: Any time during a session that a majority of the anarch characters 
present (not necessarily the majority of the anarchs in the game as a whole) are 
assembled, they may call a vote to award or remove temporary ReputationTraits from 
any anarch present. Once the matter has been discussed to the group’s satisfaction, 
a vote is called: on a count of three, everyone with the CommittedTrait holds thumbs 
up if in favor of the change, thumbs down if opposed or a plain fist if abstaining. A 
simple majority wins. There are no appeals for these changes, save to attempt to call 
another vote later on to reverse the decision. To call each such “appeal” vote costs 
one temporary Reputation Trait, however, so wise anarchs know when popular 
opinion has shifted against them and don’t further squander their good names trying 
to win back respect. Unless otherwise noted or agreed upon by the Storyteller and the 
troupe, temporary Reputation shifts arising from these informal votes last only until 
the end of the session. 
Even in this informal forum, an anarch must demonstrate some basis for 
deserving an increase or decrease in temporary Reputation -players 
cannot simply 
stand in a circle and award each other temporary Reputation up to their maximums. 
Those who attempt to do so should be severely reprimanded, or else the spirit of the 
system and the balance of the game will be thrown out of alignment. As Reputation 
is still handled through the Storyteller or the Gossip (if the game has one), this 
shouldn’t be an issue, but should a question arise a troupe may make it a policy that 
THE ANARCH 
GUIDL 
176 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


one of those staff figures must be present at all changes in temporary Reputation in 
order to ensure the system is being handled fairly. 
Permanent Reputation Change 
To initiate any kind of permanent Reputation change, a full-fledged anarch 
gathering must be under way, and a character other than the one seeking newfound 
respect (or deserving censure) must first propose that the selected character g:ain or 
lose the Trait in question. At truly large, contentious or rowdy gatherings the 
Storyteller may require that the speaker spend a temporary Reputation Trait in order 
to get the crowd’s attention; failure means they simply don’t pay enough attention 
to the character for her to call a proper vote. This process can take some time if the 
crowd has questions or if they attempt to drown out the speaker, and may require a 
Social Test or two to decide in the event of evenly matched opposition. 
Provided the speaker can get the crowd to listen, the would-be recipient’s 
actions are recounted and voted on as to whether or not they are deserving of the 
Reputation Trait in question. Likewise, to remove an accolade or assign a negative 
Reputation Trait, someone must propose the need for punishment and relate the 
reason(s) why she feels the accused character does not deserve to be known as 
Hardcore any longer, for example. 
Remember that a proper anarch gathering, as defined by the city’s anarchs 
themselves (formally or otherwise), is always required in order to call votes that carry 
permanent weight. It is also usually required that most if not all of the city’s active 
anarchs be present to provide a properly representative body, though this can vary 
in times of emergency or other dire need. Barring truly exceptional circumstances, 
an anarch may not gain more than one permanent positive Reputation Trait per rave, 
though he may lose as many positive or gain as many negative Reputation Traits as 
his fellow anarchs see fit. 
System: Assuming the speaker can get the word out, a vote is called to represent 
whether or not the assembled anarchs feel the change is justified. The voting process 
is simple - 
on a count of three, each character with the Committed Trait holds 
thumbs up for “yes,” thumbs down for “no” or a plain fist for “abstain.” When 
removing an existing positive Reputation Trait or assigning a negative Reputation 
Trait, a simple majority carries, while awarding a new positive Trait requires a 2/3 
majority approval - 
it’s a lot easier to lose respect than gain it, after all. Removing 
a negative Reputation Trait is described in the section relating to these Traits. Even 
ghouls can gain or lose Reputation at a rave, though generally speaking they must 
accomplish at least twice as much as a vampire would in order to be eligible for the 
same Trait. If the vote passes, the Reputation Trait is awarded immediately, and 
cannot be removed until at least the next gathering, barring evidence of fra.ud or 
blame being placed unfairly on a target. 
Note that this is not necessarily or even usually considered an actual in-game 
hand-raising vote, though some anarch groups might well decide to make it one. 
Rather, it is intended as an out-of-game mechanic to determine whether the crowd 
is sufficiently swayed or not. However, the vote is not entirely anonymous either - 
CHAPTER 
SIX: FACES IN ME CROW 
I77 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


given the passionate nature of these debates, whether a character was for or against 
a particular vote is considered plainly noticeable by all characters present, barring 
Discipline use or a similar talent for masking one’s true feelings. Characters who wish 
to hide their feelings in this manner may spend a level of Subterfuge or activate an 
appropriate concealment power, and then indicate this concealment by cupping the 
other hand around the one used for the vote in order to obscure it to all save the 
person doing the tallying. Those wishing to determine the true opinions of such 
characters must first defeat them individually in a standard Social test (retest 
Empathy); success means a character can tell how the target’s vote was cast. 
Otherwise a character should roleplay her inability to judge how that character felt, 
regardless of whether the player could tell how the vote went out-of-game. 
Example of Play: Shane takes the stage at an anarch rave and describes how he feels 
his packmate Daron deserves to gain the Hardcore Reputation Trait for chasing a hated 
Camarilla elder into a burning grove to ensure that he did not escape, despite already being 
gravely wounded herself. Swayed by the heroic deed and Shane’s convincing rhetoric, the 
crowd votes and Daron receives a favorable 213 majority. Her new Hardcore Reputation 
Trait is immediately awarded. Later on, Daron herself stands before the crowdanddescribes 
how her fellow packmate Dracos deserves the Casualty negative Reputation Trait after he 
nearly got hisgangkilled by not watchinghis backduringacriticalphase ofthat sameassault. 
Dracos angrily responds that it wasn’t his fault, that Daron had been overconfident and too 
quick to attack, and the debate rages for several minutes before a clear vote can finally be 
called. Despite some dissension, the majority votes against Dracos, and he immediately 
receives the Casualty negative Reputation Trait. However, no one spent Subterfuge or 
otherwise concealed their voting either, so Dracos also has a good idea of who voted against 
him and can factor that into future dealings with his gang members. Looks like there’s some 
tension brewing in this gang.. . . 
Boons and Prestation 
Although the anarchs do not recognize formal “boons” or follow the same 
antiquated rules of “prestation” that other vampires slavishly adhere to, that doesn’t 
mean the concepts those terms represent are entirely alien to them. Indeed, since 
+
I
THE ANARCH GUIDE 
178 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


they often have little more than the favors and goodwill of their fellow revolution- 
aries to rely on out in the field, most anarchs keep careful track of what they’re due 
and what they owe. Failure to repay an important favor has been the flashpoint for 
more than one bloody conflict in the Movement, and making good on your debts and 
collecting on what others owe you is a large part of maintaining one’s Reputation. 
Here’s the trickypart: The fluid and highly subjective natureofanarchReput ation 
means that to really maintain it well, you must act like you don’t care about it. 
Attempting to enforce your superior “standing” with an iron fist is bound to fail in the 
long term- as soon as you become known for trying to get by on your celebrity or being 
an absolute bully about demanding repayment for debts others owe you, a nasty 
backlash is sure to crop up. Anarchs may love a hero, but they hate a tyrant more. The 
more overtly an anarch seeks Reputation, the less chance he has of finding it. 
Conversely, the less outwardly concerned he is with his “rep,” the more likely he is to 
receive one from his peers. It’s a strange cycle, but true in practice nevertheless,. 
When dealing with the anarchs and such delicate matters as debts and prestation, 
then, the difference is primarily one of style and subtlety- though they would be loath 
to admit it, anarchs essentially respect many of the same rules concerning repaying 
debts and paying proper respect. They just approach it differently than other vampires 
do. While a Camarilla prince might speak of a “life boon” or formally announce that 
he is calling in “a prestation debt” to gather support for his latest project, an anarch 
would handle the matter much more casually - 
but no less seriously. She might remind 
her friend of the time she stuck her neck out for him, and implore him to pay her back 
with an equal display of friendship; the words and the approach are different, but the 
meaning is essentially the same as honoring a “life boon.” Likewise, an anarch looking 
to make a play for baron of the local territory might remind her ally of the time she stood 
up for him during a rave where his Reputation was taking a beating, and ask him to 
throw his support behind her during her current campaign. While neither would admit 
it, this is essentially the same as a “prestation debt.” 
Once again, it’s all aquestionofstyle- how toremind others ofyourstation or what 
they owe you without calling too much attention to the fact that you are doing so. It’s a 
trick that can take centuries to master, but it’s vital for any anarchs who seek to build a 
lasting Reputation among their kind. Players and Storytellers are thus encouraged to 
reward players who make an effort to understand and embrace the uniquely anarch style 
of handling boons and prestation, while at the same time discouraging other player:; who 
try to handle it as simply the Camarilla Status system with a nose ring. 
RFPUTATION 
TRAITS 
An anarch can generally have up to eight Reputation Traits, subject to Storyteller 
discretion. Areas with a higher concentration of anarchs tend to allow for more 
variation in Reputation levels, reflecting the developing hierarchy of the local 
revolutionaries and the potential for greater advancement with the presence of a larger 
power base. By contrast, a city with only a handful of anarchs is likely to be limited to 
fewer Reputation Traits, since unless their exploits become particularly legendary - 
or infamous - 
they are unlikely to attract the kind of acclaim awarded to radicals in 
CHAPTER SUC: FACES IN MI CROW 
179 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


more established cities. In either case an anarch‘s Reputation can still come and go far 
more rapidly than in the Camarilla or even in the Sabbat, as outlined above. 
Since the anarchs recognize no formal offices as such - even the most 
prestigious baron still technically occupies an unofficial post - 
the only way to earn 
Reputation is to become known for a particular accomplishment or talent. While it 
is theoretically possible to lie about one’s deeds to gain Reputation, doing so is rarely 
anything but an invitation to disaster when one’s true past is eventually revealed. 
The possible reward is just not worth the potential consequences, as most such liars 
and frauds quickly discover to their dismay. While anarchs may not be as formal about 
Reputation as their sect counterparts, that doesn’t mean they enjoy being lied to any 
more than anyone else does, especially by their “comrades.” 
In addition to the standard Status Traits provided in Laws of the Night (many 
of which can just as easily apply to anarchs, especially more “established” types such 
as barons or emissaries), some important new Traits include: 
Advocate, Believer, Champion, Preacher. These degrees of Reputation recog- 
nize how well known an anarch is for teaching independent or sect-aligned vampires 
about the true ideals of the Anarch Revolt, gathering recruits or defusing tensions 
born of misunderstanding. 
Bond/Bond Girl. The anarch is a successful spy within one of the larger sects, 
whether a simple observer or actively working to undermine it from within. 
Committed. The vampire has proven her dedication to the ideals of the Anarch 
Revolt as well as her loyalty to her fellow anarchs after a suitable probationary period 
and/or trial by fire. Once received, this Trait cannot be removed short of the holder’s 
decision to leave the Movement or being permanently banished from the ranks of the 
anarchs as a result of betrayal, chronic incompetence, etc. 
Hardcore. The anarch has gone above and beyond the call of duty and placed 
herself directly in harm’s way in order to complete a mission of great importance to 
the Movement even in the face of superior odds, serious personal objections, grave 
danger of Final Death or other overwhelming factors. 
Loaded, Hmk-Up, Connected. The anarch is well knownas atrusted source ofnecessary 
resources: money and equipment, information or Influence-based favors, respectively. 
Marked. Through her actions in pursuit of the goals of the Movement, the 
anarch has become the target of a Blood Hunt, War Party or even placed on the 
infamous Red List. This may be a negative Reputation Trait in areas where the 
anarchs are trying to keep a low profile. 
Soldier, Warrior, Veteran, Lifer. Each time an anarch survives a protracted 
siege, pitched battle or similar major tactical undertaking-not just araid or a minor 
brawl - 
she receives one of these Traits. Additional victories beyond this number 
simply increase the degree of respect granted. 
Tested. An anarch who has survived a successful planned raid or similar 
organized minor conflict may receive this Trait. It is only received once, after the first 
such clash the vampire survives; after that the anarch is expected to know how to take 
care of himself in such situations. 
THE ANARCH 
&]DE 
180 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


True Believer. The anarch has gone above and beyond the call of duty to 
directly place himself in harm’s way for the sake of spreading the ideals of the Anarch 
Revolt. Most often given to recruiters and emissaries who risk Final Death to spread 
the ideals of the Movement in actively hostile cities. 
Visionary. The anarch has become known for proposing new and useful ideas 
related to the Cause, whether a more amicable way to divide hunting grounds 
between a city’s gangs, a better method to gather Influence in local government or 
a tactical plan that saved the city from a Sabbat invasion. 
Storytellers should feel free to define more Reputation Traits that apply to a 
particular gang, territory or even to the Movement as a whole. Make the Reputation 
in your chronicle match the style of the anarchs represented as well as the raves and 
overall theme you are looking to create. 
The anarchs also define a number of standard negative Reputation Traits. (As 
with positive Reputation Traits, feel free to add more that suit your chronicle.) An 
anarch member may possess two of these at any given moment. Recently awarded 
negative Traits displace older ones as far as game mechanics go, though that doesn’t 
mean the anarchs have forgotten past indiscretions - 
their ire is simply focused in 
another direction at the moment. Generally speaking, a vampire can earn the 
removal of the Trait by twice successfully completing whatever task he failed at to 
earn the negative Trait in the first place, or by publicly and conclusively clearing his 
name in the matter of a false accusation. 
Burnt Out. This Trait goes to anarchs who have demonstrated a distinct: lack 
of enthusiasm for the Cause, as well as those who have been heard to belittle or 
otherwise downplay the importance of the Anarch Revolt in general. 
Casualty. The anarch has become careless, whether in word or deed, and in 
so doing placed fellow revolutionaries in direct danger. The not-so-subtle implica- 
tion is that if the anarch doesn’t shape up soon, no one will back him the next time 
he is under fire. 
Cherry. This Trait goes to anarchs who exhibit a dangerous nayvet6 ab0u.t the 
Movement, their gang’s goals or even just unlife in general. That said, only the most 
militant packs generally give this Trait just for being new to the Cause; most of the 
time a vampire’s inexperience has to have caused serious problems or even bodily 
harm to fellow anarchs before this Trait applies. 
Defeated. The anarch recently lost a battle. This does not generally apply to 
situations where the only sane response would be to take flight, such as one anarch 
facing a horde of Sabbat, but does apply to any fair fights the anarch lost. This also 
applies to anarchs who lose a personal duel. 
Overzealous. The vampire’s refusal to compromise personal beliefs (generally 
hypocritical self-important ones) has led her to needlessly endanger the welfare of 
other anarchs or even the city as a whole. 
Thug. Simply put, the anarch is too eager to start a fight or otherwise put 
himself (and often others) directly at risk, even when it’s not the best option 
available. Use your fists instead of your wits too often, and this Trait will find you. 
CHAPTER Sn FACE IN ME CROWD 
181 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Unenlightened. Even after having them explained to her, the anarch cannot 
remember the details of essential components of the Anarch Revolt, such as the 
history of the Cause, the importance of the Convention of Thorns, the principles of 
the Status Perfectus and so on. Usually awarded to an anarch who publicly 
demonstrates such ignorance, especially in front of members of the sects. 
Unreliable. The vampire failed to perform some key duty for his gang, generally 
one that was explicitly outlined in the past and which the anarch is well aware it is 
his responsibility to fulfill. 
Vain (also known as Cocky, Full of Himself or comparable terms). The vampire 
claims mastery of some field in which she goes on to fail publicly, preferably in an 
impressive or even physically dangerous way. This Trait commemorates acts of 
unsuccessful hubris of all kinds. 
KEEPING 
REPUTATION 
IN PFRSPECTIVF 
Always remember that Reputation Traits quantify something that’s hazy and 
subjective to characters in the World of Darkness. Reputation is fluid, personalized 
and subject to change without muchnotice. A character can ride avictory to the top 
of the world one night, only to find the backlash surrounding his next failure that 
much more intense since he has become a figure of public renown and the others 
“expected better” of him. Players should acknowledge the natural give-and- take of 
this system and take all gains and losses in stride, as well as recognize that just because 
the other characters voted to give them a negative Reputation Trait, that doesn’t 
mean the other players have it in for them. As long as they keep that distinction in 
mind, most troupes can run the rough-and-tumble majority rule system presented 
here without a problem. 
However, if it starts becoming an out-of-game popularity contest or causing 
harsh feelings between players who feel they’re being passed over for Reputation or 
unfairly assignednegativeTraits, change it. There are more anarchsout there than just 
the players’ characters, after all, and as such you’re perfectly entitled to rule that the 
larger anarch population (i.e. you the Storyteller) is the final arbiter of all Reputation 
adjustments. Or you may come up with an entirely different method of tracking 
Reputation unique to your game: So long as you and your players enjoy it, that’s what 
matters. The bottom line is that the reality of Reputation - 
superior and inferior 
rank, as well as recognition of brilliant or foolish deeds - 
exists even among the 
supposedly egalitarian anarchs, and you can portray it in lots of ways. Rules should 
always serve the chronicle, not the other way around. 
THE ANARCH 
G~IDE 
182 
Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1


Sean Carter (order #19521)
1
