ISBN 1-56504-782-6 
a 
WW5406 $7.95 U.S. 
5 0 7 9 5  
9 781 565 047822 
I 


1 
1 


Issue #4 
The secrets of the wraiths of the Jade Empire. 
The conclusion of the Mayday! Chronicle. 
Live-Action Mage rules.. . sort of. 
Issue #5 
The first part of MET'S look at Wraith: The Great War. 
A look at the Bunyip for Laws of the Wyld West. 
The einherjar of the Dark Ages. 
0 
2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
735 PARK NORTH BLvD. rights reserved. Reprcductionwithout the written 
permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden, 
except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank 
tMR[STON, {A 30021 character sheets, which may be reproduced for 
personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Mas- 
USA 
querade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the 
Ascension, World of Darkness and Aberrant are 
registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, 
Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, 
Mind'sEyeTheatre Journal, WerewolftheDarkAges,Kindredofthe EastCompanion,and 
Laws of the East are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All 
characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a 
challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical 
and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. 
Reader discretion is advised. 
,SUITE 128 
G A M E  S l U D l O  
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 


BFCAUSF T H E  M IND’S  EYE N F V F K  B L I N K S  
TABLE 
O E  CONTENTS 
w E LC o M E! 
by Yours Truly 
T H E  CURRENT 
THINKING 
DEADGUY 
SPEAKS 
by Richard E. Dansky 
WRAITH: 
THE D RE AT WAR 
COSTUMINQEOR 
LIVE-ACTION 
PLAY 
by Bruce Baugh 
by Laura Hanson 
WEREWOLETHE 
DARK 
AGES 
by David Kizzia 
O N  T H E  S I D E O E  
ANGELS 
by Peter Woodworth 
OTHER CHILDRENOETHE 
EASTERN 
NIC~HT 
by Peter Woodworth 
T H E  MOURNING 
AETER 
by Cynthia Summers 
EVENT HORIZON 
4 
5 
I 1  
1 6  
3 3  
4 0  
5 3  
6 3  
6 9  
7 4  


WELCOME! 
Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the sixth issue of theMET 
Journal! For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a 
second to acquaint you with just what you’ve got here. (For those of you 
who already know, you may skip ahead to The Current Thinking.) 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps 
in your White Wolf LARP environment. We offer rules for new charac- 
ter types, original story lines to work into your chronicles, guides for 
keeping your games under control and running smoothly and rules 
updates you won’t find in any other Mind’s Eye release. Plus, you’ll find 
answers to the questions that have plagued you, original World of 
Darkness fiction and columns from people who’ve been LARPing or 
working here at White Wolf (or both) for years. 
In this issue, we finish taking a look at the wraithly environment of the 
Great War era, including rulesfor Maelstromeffects and making Momvights 
playable characters. You’ll also find advice from the Mind’s Eye Theatre 
line developer and rules for creating Yulan-]in and Dhamphyr characters 
for your Laws of the East chronicle. And that’s just a sample of what’s in 
store for you here. We’ll also take a look at what you’ve missed in previous 
issues (if you’re joining us late) and what to expect in the future ofMind’s 
Eye Theatre and White Wolf in general. 
In future issues of the Journal, we’ll present some more of the 
material that had to be left out of Laws of the East, tips on acting and 
some expanded information on the hideous fomori. 
And you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on 
your opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us 
questions about the features and rules you see here, as well as notes about 
the broken rules you come across in different MET publications. Send us 
horror stories about games gone wrong and how your player characters 
fixed them. We’re interested in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and 
we want to know what you think. 
Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action 
genre; we’ve got something for everybody. And if we don’t have it yet, let 
us know. We’ll get it for you. 
Curl Bowen, Developer 
curl@white-wolf. corn 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal Developer 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
USA 


THF CURRFNT T H I N K I N 9  
It hasn’t been long since the revised edition of Laws of 
the Night has hit the shelves, and already the deluge has 
begun! So, in the interests of world peace (or at least, peace 
in your game), here are the answers to some questions that 
have started cropping up. 
Q: I don’t like the new Virtue system, where vampires can be sent to 
frenzy just by lighting a cigarette. What can I do about this? 
A: First, remember that any stimulus under the vampire’s control doesn’t 
cause a Virtue Test. Therefore, you needn’t make a Courage test just to light your 
own cigarette or throw a Flame Bolt. 
Second, the circumstances for Virtue Tests are determined by the Narrator 
or Storyteller. A player can call for his character to make a Virtue Test if he thinks 
that his character would be affected by a situation (testing for frenzy due to an 
insult, for example), which is recommended as good roleplaying. It’s up to 
Narrators to keep players honest if some big-time scene breaks out, such as pillars 
of flame landing in your character’s yard. Of course, chances are good that there’s 
already a Narrator on hand if there are pillars of flame landing in your yard.. . . 
Last, if you think that it’s just too easy for vampires to lose control, and your 
game has degenerated into a mass of screaming, frenzied Cainites, you can strip 
out the stimuli for one- and two-Trait Self-Control/ Instinct and Courage Virtue 
Tests. Therefore, characters will only frenzy when something really egregious 
comes up. This mechanic does numb the “personal horror” angle of Vampire a 
bit, so be careful with it. Under such a system, vampires will be likely to frenzy 
or enter Rotschrek only when they face direct sunlight, starvation and the sight 
of blood, or actual fire damage. It’s important to make sure that the Morality 
scales stay intact just to keep people honest to their Humanity/ Path rating. 
Q I noticed that characters never suffer a loss of Virtue Traie under the system 
presented. What should I do if a player is buying up his hcience/- 
Self- 
contrdl Instiwt and Courage to maximum levels, since they never drop? 
A: At his or her discretion, the Storyteller may always choose to strip a 
character of a Virtue Trait for particularly severe events. A vampire who suffers 
too many shattering defeats of his Courage may lose a Courage Trait perma- 
nently. This loss is part and parcel of the degeneration into inhumanity and the 
fight with the Beast. However, losing Virtue Traits is not acommon event, since 
it can easily wreck characters rapidly if it occurs too often. At the very least, a 
player should have to lose a Virtue Test, risk a retest and lose that as well before 
having the possibility of losing a permanent Virtue Trait. 
If you do decide to strip a character’s Virtue Trait, then you probably shouldn’t 
inflict the temporary Derangement, just to keep the player from getting t o d y  
hammered. Note that if a character is stripped down to having no Virtue Traits in 
a given Virtue, then the player can’t even enter Virtue Challenges of that type. He 
suffers the appropriate effects automatically. In such a case, the Derangement 
assigned should probably be permanent (although it could be overcome normally). 


When using the compressed scale, all Blood and Willpower Traits are halved 
from the normal scale. Thus, a thirteenth-generation vampire, who would 
normally have 10 Blood Traits and two Willpower Traits, instead has five Blood 
Traits and one Willpower Trait. 
A couple of things to keep in mind with the compressed scale: First, all 
Blood Trait expenditures are also halved, rounded up. Thus, using the Feral 
Chws Discipline, which normally costs one Blood Trait, still costs a single Blood 
Trait. Healing an aggravated wound costs two Blood Traits (half of three is one 
and a half, rounded up to two). Healing a normal wound still costs one Blood 
Trait. Waking up in the evening costs one Blood Trait. You get the idea. 
The limits on expended Blood Traits are also halved in the compressed 
scale. Therefore, only an eighth or better generation vampire can spend more 
than one Blood Trait in a turn. 
If you use the compressed Blood/ Willpower scale, you should probably also 
use a compressed Health scale. Under that system, all vampires have one level 
each of Healthy, Bruised, Wounded and Incapacitated, after which they’re in 
torpor or they hit Final Death. Fortitude and Potence work normally, but all 
weapons only cause half damage, rounded up, in such a system. Therefore, most 
attacks do only a single level of damage. 
Q: How many Blood Traits do mortals have? 
A: A mortal has 10 Blood Traits under the normal blood system. Each one 
removed causes a health level of lethal damage to the mortal (and yes, this injury 
will kill a mortal before the individual completely runs out of blood). If you use 
the compressed scale, then mortals have five Blood Traits, but each one lost still 
causes one level of lethal damage. Remember that mortals take additional 
damage when Giovanni vampires feed from them. 
Ghouls have normal Blood Traits like humans, although they replace one of 
their human Blood Traits with a Trait of ghoul blood in order to become ghouls 
in the first place. This Trait of blood can power Disciplines and the like, although 
its use causes injury to the ghoul just as if the blood had been lost through other 
means. Ghouls can still be overfed; see Liber des Goules for ideas on giving aghoul 
extra blood to convert his human Blood Traits into ghoulish Blood Traits. 
Q: What are the relative strengths/ speeds/ endurance levels of the 
various levels of Celerity, Fortitude and Potence? 
A: Try this for comparison: 
Power level Celerity 
Fortitude 
Potence 
Basic 
Outrun a bike Take a punch 
Throw a large television 
Intermediate I
Advanced 
Outrun a car Take a blowtorch Throw a small car 
Outrun a horse Take a baseball bat Throw a refrigerator 
Q: I’m having trouble with the Vanish from Mind’s Eye power of 
Obfuscate. It’s cumbersome to test against everyone every time I want to say 
a simple sentence! 
A: You always risk detection if you interact with your surroundings while 
Obfuscated. If you need a simpler system, you can simply expend a Mental Trait 
each time you speak a full sentence while Obfuscated, as long as you have Vanish 


from Mind’s Eye or better. However, this system is up to the approval of your 
Storyteller, and it applies to everyone - 
including those pesky enemies you’ve 
been trying to catch. 
Q: The new limits on Thuumaturgy, particularly the Path of Bloal, seem 
pretty restrictive. What can I do to make sure that Thaumuturgy still has utility? 
A: Thaumaturgy is a powerful Discipline, but its strength lies in its flexibiliry. 
If you are really having aproblem with the fact that P o w  ofBlood is now limited 
so that a 13th generation vampire can’t pretend to be fifth, that Theft ofvitae can 
no longer rip away enough blood to keep a vampire from using Celerity or that 
Cauldron of Blood can no longer kill someone in a single blow, you can always 
increase or waive the limits on expenditures for Thaumaturgy. Don’t do so without 
a careful look at the consequences across the game, though. Thaumaturgy should 
not create a “one-shot kill” any more than any other power. Remember, too, that 
Thaumaturgy ’s success in tabletop relies on the rolls of the player. AVampire: The 
Masquerade player cannot expect to automatically tear away 10 blood points from 
an individual, and the live-action version is no different. At most, we recommend 
an upper limit of five Traits on the various limited expenditures, unless you want 
the Tremere to get really gross. (Cauldron of Blood in particular, with its aggravated 
damage, can be extremely dangerous if misused.) 
Q: The example of breaking Obfuscate with Auspex is confusing. The 
example in theObfuscate Discipline says a one-for-one Trait bonus to the 
higher Discipline, but the description only gives two Traits for a character 
using Vanish from Mind’s Eye against Heightened Senses, which would be a 
difference of three levels. How should this work? 
A: You get a two-Trait bonus for eachpower class that exceeds your opponent’s. 
That is, if you have the Intermediate power and your opponent has the Basic power, 
you get two extra Traits against him. If you have the Advanced power and your 
opponent has the Basic power, you get four extra Traits. These Traits cannot be used 
for bidding, but they can be used for resolving ties and for calculating overbids. 
Q: Now that Thuumaturgy and Necromunq rituals cost Experience 
Traits, what should I do with characters who already have lots of rituals? 
A: Don’t worry about it. You can always adjudicate that a character can 
learn a ritual through hard effort and study with appropriate Influence. If you 
want to be strict, you can charge such players a small fraction of their earned 
experience (say, one point each month) until they’re “paid up.)’ If they complain 
about it, point out that you’re not taking away all of their experience, and that 
they have already had all of these rituals for free for some time. 
Q: The Thanatosis power of Withering makes it impossible to use 
Celerity, Fortitude and Potence if it strikes the head. Shouldn’t it affect 
Mental Disciplines and not Physical ones? 
A: Whoops! That sentence should read “Doing so kills mortals instantly 
and causes vampires to suffer the Negative Traits Oblivious and Witless in 
addition to rendering them unable to use any Disciplines except Celerity, 
Fortitude and Potence.” Note that a vampire with a withered head can still use 
other non-Discipline powers such as healing or boosting Physical Traits. 
Q: The Summun power is causing me problems. People are summoning 
their enemies from several miles away, and forcing them to travel during the 
day, killing them! What should I do? 


A: The Summon power dissipates at dawn at the victim’s location. Also, the 
power cannot place someone in a dangerous situation. A summoned individual will 
take steps to avoid danger and mitigate risk, and the summoning is broken if there 
is no way to reach the summoner except through dangerous or fatal territory (such 
as walking through flame or traveling through gang territory alone and unarmed). 
Q: The suggested Ability retests don’t make sense for some of the 
Disciplines. Why would I use Leadership instead of Intimidation, for 
instance, with Dread Gaze? 
A: At your Storyteller’s option, you can specify different Abilities for each 
Discipline, but doing so gets nightmarishly complex and requires each player to 
remember exactly what Ability is used for a retest with each level of every 
Discipline. If you do so, we recommend that you make up cards for the 
Disciplines, so that the players can remember what Ability is appropriate. In any 
case, no Discipline should get aretest frommore than one Ability. You shouldn’t 
be able to use Leadership or Intimidation with Dread Gaze, for instance. Use one 
or the other for all uses of the power. 
Q: Where are the Sabbat Paths of Enlightenment? Kiasyd? Children of 
Osiris? Ahrimanes? 
A: Later book. We only had so many pages. 
Q: The Disciplines section mentions “eight common Disciplines,” but 
only lists seven. Which one is missing? 
Q: How do caitiff work in the new version? 
A: A caitiff picks three Disciplines as primary Disciplines. Unless the 
Storyteller says otherwise, these should come from the “common eight.” The 
caitiff advances in these at “clan costs.” Caitiff cannot begin play with Status, 
and they generally are of very weak Generation. More information on caitiff will 
be forthcoming in a later book. 
Q: How do I use other Mind’s Eye Theatre games with the new rules? 
A: If you use the compressed scales, your games should work just fine. Under 
such a system, everybody keeps the same health levels, and the relative balance 
of power is maintained. 
Should you use the full Blood/ Willpower/ Health scales, you’ll need to 
accommodate with the other games. Werewolves, changelings and mortals should 
use the health level scales listed in the revised edition rules. (Wraiths always had 
their own Corpus scale, and it doesn’t change.) Their Trait ratings can stay the 
same; a vampire with five Blood Traits is still in trouble when running into a 
werewolf with four Rage Traits. Under this system, a werewolf heals one lethal or 
bashing health level of damage every h ~ r n  
that he’s not in a challenge. 
Use your best judgment when arbitrating the effects of powers. Razor Claws, 
for instance, probably stays the same, but some of the higher-level Gifts might 
automatically do two levels of damage in the full-scale system. 
Q: On page 11 1, time in involuntary torpor is measured in game sessions 
based on Morality. On page 199, there’s a chart with concrete (generally 
longer) times. Which is it? 
A: Use the chart on page 11 1 so that you can scale torpor times according 
to your own game’s schedule. 
T H E  
CURRENT 
THINKING 


Q: Willpower must be spent to attempt a challenge if you don’t have the 
appropriate Ability. Does this include challenges like Brawl and Melee? 
A: No; you only spend Willpower to attempt a challenge without the 
Ability if the Ability would normally be required for the action. You can always 
fire a gun, swing a sword or attempt a similar action. You can’t necessarily read 
Sanskrit without the right training. 
Q: Under the Awareness Ability, it mentions usingretests for the Ability 
with the Occult Ability. Why would someone retest an Ability with a 
different Ability? 
A: This is probably a little unclear. When you use the Awareness Ability, 
you’re sensitive to unusual supernatural things going on in your vicinity. However, 
you may not actually know what they are without the Occult Ability. Thus, your 
Awareness may tell you that something magical just happened, but you’d need 
Occult Ability to recognize it as, say, Thaumaturgy if you didn’t actually see exactly 
what happened or weren’t familiar with the effect in question. 
Q: The Flaw Intolerance shows up under the example of character 
creation on p. 129. Where is it? 
A: Technically, this Flaw no longer exists. However, the Storyteller may 
always adjudicate the use of additional Merits and Flaws. 


DFADGUY SDFAKS 
J 
I 
WHY 
I HAD 
EOUR MILLION 
M A ~ F  
SUBMISSIONS 
IN MY OEEICE 
Now that Jess and Carl have opened the can of worms I spent four years trying to 
bury in ferroconcrete, I suppose that now is the best time possible to shed some light 
on what some called the most enduring mystery of my tenure developing Mind’s Eye 
Theatre’. The most enduring one above and beyond, “Cripes, why did they give you 
the job? Were there no trained lemurs available?” that is. 
No, the one thing everyone wanted to know about my work on MET was, oddly 
enough, the whereabouts of the one book I never did tackle, a book that’s absence mandated 
that MET would never be a letter-perfect translation of the tabletop World of Darkness. 
In the chat rooms, on the newsgroups and forums, at conventions and in 
disturbingly phrased phone messages left on my intermittently checked voice mail, the 
question was always the same: Where’s MET Magez? 
After all, it would seem like an obvious next book at any given juncture. All the other 
World of Darkness games had gotten their translations, even that icky Wraith thin$. 
Why not Mage, which was more popular, and quite likely to sell rather well as a result? 
Why was that rat bastard Dansky so intent on never, ever doing live-action Mage? 
Well, for the first time, you’re going to get the real, honest-to-Murgatroyd answer, 
right here in these pages. At last, the terrible secret that swallowed so many submissions 
is about to be revealed. The time for secrecy and discretion is over. You can learn the 
truth now. You’re ready. 
The truth is, soylent green is made of people. Oh, hang on, that’s not it. Sorry about that. 
The real reason I never developed Laws of Magic (or Laws of Magick or Ascension 
or Laws of My God I Hope For Once in Their Bloody Lives Our Artists Don’t Feel 
Compelled to Turn in Shots of Bare Breasts for a Book with a Purple Cover, Because 
I Really Don’t Want to f i v e  to Try to Explain this One to the 700 Club and My 
Mother) was always a very simple one. And it wasn’t one that anyone ever guessed. 
Oh, sure, there were theories. There were guesses. There were cries of outrage4 
about how all of those umpty-gazillion live-action Mage players were being cruelly 
ignored out of sheer spite5. In truth, I spent a not-so-brief period collecting various 
conspiracy and other theories as to why the book never got made. I heard that then- 
Mage developer Phil Brucato refused to allow it. I heard that Phil wanted to develop 
it and that I wouldn’t let him. I heard that people at White Wolf knew that various folks 
of the neo-pagan persuasion would curse us if the book ever saw print and that we were 
determined to save our own skins by killing the book. I heard that various branches of 
the Religious Right were getting ready to march on the White Wolf offices like extras 


from Young Frankenstein, waving their torches and demanding that the book be burned. 
I even heard from one sadly deluded chap who dug up a fossilized April Fools’ Day post 
wherein I promised live-action tantric sex rules for Mage, complete with a bound 
Paradox spirit and one pair of edible undies6. The poor guy thought that I was A) serious 
and B) about to run afoul of various federal statutes by doing so. 
In short, I heard every possible reason for my refusal to produce Laws of the Purple 
Cover on demand short of someone insisting that the Secret Masters had forbidden me 
to do so. After all, with all of those compelling reasons (or “REA$ON$7” as some not- 
terribly-clever folks felt the need to phrase it) to do the book, there had to be some 
horrible secret behind the fact that it wasn’t seeing print. 
Now, to their eternal credit, some folks out there decided to put their money where 
their collective mouth (and good Lord, isn’t that an image out of Bosch?) was, and submit 
proposals for rules sets for MET Mage. Sending in a submission to a publisher is a work of 
utmost bravery, and I have respect for anyone who dares to attempt it. After all, it’s one thing 
to have your friends tell you how great your ideas are or your game is, but it’s quite another 
to put it out there under the cold, critical eye of someone who doesn’t know you from Adam 
(and who has absolutely no compunctions about telling you that the 400-page submission 
you’ve spent two years cobbling together is Not Good Enough). It’s hard, putting your work 
out where you can’t be there to shepherd it, to smooth over the rough spots and explain the 
places where you might have been unclear. Once you put the manuscript in the envelope, 
it’s out of your hands. It stands or falls on its own merits, and it goes before a judge as 
legendarily harsh as Minos or Rhadamanthus - 
the developer. It takes a lot of courage to 
submit your work to an impartial judging from someone who is bound to be -because of 
time constraints, if nothing else - 
swift, merciless and impartial. Furthermore, by 
submitting your work, you’re implicitly accepting the responsibility of writing the book 
should your proposal be accepted, and as any professional writer can tell you, writing to 
deadline is hard, intense labo?. So those people who sent in proposals for their particular 
versions of MET Mage did and still do have my respect for making that attempt. 
And so, the submissions came rolling in. Some were done in the format I’d 
requested a hundred times-cover 
letter, outline, writing sample, SASE-while 
some 
were complete manuscripts the size of the latest Clive Barker literary Dagwood. Some 
were incredibly professional, while others lacked basics like SASEs and cover letters or 
hadn’t been proofread. Some were very good, some, well, weren’t. A couple approached 
excellence. But every single one got rejected, put in the pile and turned over to my 
successors for their perusal when the time came to hand off the reins. 
Why? 
The answer to this long-running conundrum is, unfortunately, a blunt one. In so 
many words, none of them worked, and after certain incidents early in my tenure as MET 
developer, I swore that I was never going to let a book that didn’t work - 
that would 
destroy moregames than itwouldcreate-out withmynameonit9.Andsoas eachMET 
Mage submission came in, I dutifully unwrapped it, read it and then broke it. 
Broke the rules, that is. Found ways in which the particular rules set could be contorted 
until it cried for its mama, and game-play went out the window. Then the submission would 
get put on the ferry to the Island of Misfit Toys, or more accurately, on top of the towering, 
teetering stack of unsuccessful Mage MET proposals, and wait for the next one to come along. 
Unfortunately, most of the submissions came in sharing one fatal flaw - 
the 
assumption that since this particular batch of rules worked with a local group, it would 
work, period. Sadly, that was never the case. 


The three main pitfalls of doing MET Mage were always playability, faithfulness and 
balance. The first was exemplified by the dreaded “I Brutally assault you/ I Wisely teleport 
to Saturn” dilemma. To do Mage properly was to invite all sorts of incidents, transforma- 
tions, teleportations and so on that the imagination was better suited to handle than the 
live-action arenalo. If a proposal turned Mage loose in all of its wild, rambunctious glory, 
all Hell would no doubt break loose five minutes into the first session as characters turned 
other characters into lawn furniture, jaunted around the various levels of reality and 
otherwise made the Storyteller’s life something out of Dante’s best book. 
Furthermore, there was always the matter of Paradox. Assigning it correctly would 
call for far too many Narrators - 
a one-to-one player/ staff ratio would have been 
optimal - 
lest players get away with vulgar murder (and magic) when no one was 
looking. On the flip side, some proposals did away with Paradox entirely as being too 
much trouble. These rules systems promised utter chaos. They also made rude gestures 
in the general direction of faithfulness, the second major hurdle any proposal would 
have to get across. After all, Mage without Paradox isn’t Mage. It’s a mid-period 
Avengers comic, with the pillars of heaven shaking on a regular basis because there isn’t 
anything in place to keep them from doing so. 
Other proposals abandoned Spheres in favor of making an entirely rote-based 
system, which was, in my opinion, contrary to the spirit of the game. After all, MET 
has always been about translating existing material, not creating new things. Hacking 
major bits of the game system out would have, I felt, been rather contrary to that 
mission. 
Finally, the question of balance always came up. Would some characters be too 
powerful or not powerful enough? Would everyone get a fair shake from the get-go? 
Moreover, would a live-action version of Mage play well with others? Would a single 
Mage character be able to walk into a Masquerade game and turn all of the elders into 
papasan chairs without working up a sweat, and was that fair to the Vampire players”? 
For all of the insistence on pure venues here, there and everywhere, we all know that 
crossovers happen. Ten minutes after Laws of Magick hit the stands, someone, 
somewhere would stroll into an Elysium with a Euthanatos character and try to reduce 
everyone to little piles of dust just ’cause he could. That sort of thing tends to distress 
players, and I always felt that distressing players unduly was a bad ideal2. 
The real problem, however, ran a bit deeper. It ties into the same root reason that 
Justin Achilli’s eyes spit thin jets ofbloodevery time someone sends inanother proposal 
for My Extremely Small Suburb by Night, which features 35 vampires living in a 
bedroom community that sports two gas stations, a single strip mall and a high school 
that isn’t necessarily large enough to field a decent football team. 
The thing that so many people forget when sending in proposals (and indeed, it’s 
almost heartbreaking sometimes to see the labor lavished on proposals for books that 
simply cannot see print) is that the books have to befmeveeryone. They can’t just be for “god 
roleplayers,” whoever that is. They can’t just be for people who play a certain style or 
people who know not to abuse the rules in a certain way because that’s not the way it 
works. Just as a would-be writer loses control of her submission the instant she puts it in 
the mail, the developer loses control of the book the instant it gets shipped out to stores 
and distributors and -De0 prohibe -players. That means that the book has to speak for 
itself. It has to cover all of the bases. It has to be useful from the get-go for everyone from 
the most immersive roleplayer to the rampaging gunbunny twink who wants to play a 
HIT-Mark just so he can blow stuff up real good. The book has to be accessible to everyone 


up in the same game, they can play nice together. A book can’t be designed for jist some 
players. The notion of putting a snobbish disclaimer reading, “Buy this book only if you’re 
a good roleplayer!” is beyond ludicrous. Instead, it has to be usable by everyone, so that 
anyone can get anything he wants from the setting and genre out of it. 
So that meant that rules sets that were only good for small-troupe play had to go 
bye-bye. That meant that proposals that relied on superior roleplaying and personal 
assessments of Paradox had to go out the window because, let’s face it, you may not 
cheat, but you know someone who does. It meant that systems that relied on too many 
Narrators or too many this or that had to be put aside. Most of all, it meant that games 
that worked perfectly for a particular group, with a particular Storyteller and Narrator 
staff, had to get chucked because you’re just not going to get that dynamic anywhere 
else. What works perfectly for one game almost inevitably hits some bumpy spots with 
any other group of players because they don’t play the way you do, and the delicate 
checks and balances that come from a tight-knit group with a guiding hand on the rules 
tiller just don’t translate. 
So that’s the real reason I never did Mage for MET. It wasn’t because the 
submissions were bad because many of them were quite good, and I could certainly see 
circumstances under which they’d work well. The trouble was I could never see them 
working quite well for all circumstances and, in the long run, that’s what the book had 
to be in order to make it out the door. And since none of those submissions, and not 
even any combination of those submissions, was going to be able to be transformed into 
that sort of book, that’s as far as the project went. Had a suitable proposal come in, 1 
would have done it in a heartbeatI3, but sadly, that was never the case. 
And that, sad to say, is the truth of the matter. If folks really want, I’ll swear up and 
down that it was alien mind control that made me not do it, but sad to say, it was a lot 
less complicated than that. Will there ever be an MET Mage? Who knows? I haven’t 
seen the revised edition ofMage yet, and that just might make it possible. But that’s the 
future; I’m talking about the past. 
I know, the conspiracy theories were a lot more fun. But that’s just who I am, the 
mean guy determined to ruin everyone’s good time.. . 
. . .at least, until I Wisely teleport to Saturn. 


F ~ N D N O T E S  
No, it’s not “Why did you spell that last word ‘Theatre?’ It looks kind of pretentious, 
man.” Although I must admit, that one got asked a lot, too. (If you really must know, it was 
in place before I got there, and inertia is a powerful thing. I didn’t dare change the name of 
the Angst stat in Wraith, either.) 
1 was always tempted to answer “Poughkeepsie” when asked, but I realized that no one 
actually knows where Poughkeepsie is. 
3 G ~  
ahead. Comment. I dare you. 
Mostly from the authors of Mage MET submissions, who made up a fairly significant 
Not true. Sheer spite takes effort, and I simply didn’t have the energy for it. 
6YoucanfindthepostonDejaNewsifyoureallyfeellielookingforit. I Mitwasfunny,thm. 
One of the single most annoying habits of the gaming community, in my vitriolic and 
withered opinion, is the inane compulsion to replace every single “S” in a company’s name with 
a “$” as a representation of how T$R or WWG$ or $JG (or whoever else) has Sold Out and is 
no longer concerned with anything but money. First of all, if anyone involved in the whole 
bloody gaming industry likedmoney that much, they wouldn’t be in the bloody gaming industry 
in the first place. I’ll clue you in on the worst-kept secret in the gaming field: IT DOESN‘T PAY 
JACK. The day I left White Wolf after four years of service, I was making less than a starting 
assistant manager would have pulled down at the Quick Trip minimart down the road from the 
office. Yes, a few people hawe made nice piles for themselves in gaming, but the odds of doing so 
are slightly lower than the odds of you popping up on a network game show, kneeing Regis 
Philbin in the shorts between questions and absconding with the loot while the nation looks on 
in shocked dismay. Second of all, I’ve been a gamer of one stripe or another since the 1970s (back 
before they shipped dice in the D&D box), and I don’t think I’ve gone a single week in the 
intervening 20 or soyears without seeing that same stupid joke somewhere. IT’S NOT FUNNY 
ANYMORE. Geez. The horse is long dead, people. Put the Renfaire Special Cat 0’ Nine Tails 
away and stop beating it - 
you’ve turned Secretariat into Elmer’s Glue. 
Anyone still laboring under the delusion that writing consists of locking yourself in a room 
with your computer, some candles and a bottle of red wine, then waiting for inspiration to strike 
is in for a rude surprise. Inspiration doesn’t keep timetables. Publishing houses and magazines do. 
And since inspiration doesn’t cut checks while publishing houses do, you learn to write to the 
latter’sdemands. Practicing yourwriting on aregular basis, doing writingexercises andotherwise 
learning thetechnicalsideofwritingmakesitthatmucheasierforinspirationtofinditswayonto 
the page, but sometimes the lightning bolt just isn’t going to strike, and the deadline isn’t going 
to shift. Those are the nights when you just have to knuckle down and labor in the literary 
trenches, and it’s sure as hell not “lowering” yourself as an “artist” to do so. Only the 
independently wealthy can afford to wait for their Muse; the rest of us use project outlines. 
I also swore that I was never going to spend another religious holiday on my hands and 
knees in the office, trying to fix the index on a MET project, but that’s another story. 
lo The best solution for this dilemma that anyone ever fed me, incidentally, was that 
the offending player should go stand in the cleaning closet and get a few whiffs of ammonia 
for that fresh, clean gas-giant smell. Mr. Clean works well, I‘m told. 
‘I And would those Masquerade players violate the No Touching rule and pound that 
smart-ass mage into a bloody pulp after the game? Let’s face it, that’s just asking for it. 
I* Ofcourse, now that I’ve got this column I can distress anyone I damn well please. You 
have no idea how relaxing it is. 
l3 Assuming, of course, I didn’t get a coronary from shock in the process. 
market demographic by the time I hied myself to North Carolina. 


WRAITH: THF CjRFAT WAR 
by Bruce Baugh 
This article is part two of a two-part feature. Part One, printed last issue, included: 
An overview of the @eat War era, including the Insurrection. 
The Legions and Guilds during the Fourth Great Maelstrom, along with ageneral 
sense of existence during the @eat War. 
Character creation, includingnew Archetypes, Abilities, Thorns and the like for 
the era, along with period versions of some Arcanoi. 
Part Two includes: 
Rules for Maelstrom behavior and survival. 
Guidelines on using Charon in @eat War games. 
Arcanoi of other Dark Kingdoms, for use by wraiths stranded in Stygian 
territory by the storm. 
Mortwights as characters, including revised versions of some Dark Arcanoi. 
Some prominent places and people of the era. 
STORM 
CLOUDS 
H I ~ H E R  
THANTHE 
MOON: 
T H E  GREAT MAELSTROM 
- 
A Great Maelstrom is an event and a condition. It’s a storm cast up out of 
the Labyrinth, blasting through the Tempest to the Shadowlands, battering 
against the Shroud itself. It carries the inanimate debris of the Labyrinth and 
Tempest, and it carries vast legions of Spectres, forced from their Oblivion- 
tainted homes, constantly wounded by the vibrancy of the upper lands of the 
dead and eager to inflict compensatory pain on others. 
Cumulative pain and suffering in the Skinlands feeds the cycle of change 
within the Labyrinth. The more the material world feeds Oblivion, the more 
servants of Oblivion rise up to reap the dark harvest. Spectres don’t want to be 
there, however; they yearn for the day when the storm clouds settle and they can 
return to the now-deserted Labyrinth. In the meantime, there are souls to destroy. 
The storm begins with gale-force winds pouring through Nihils or ripping 
their own passages from Tempest to Shadowlands. The stronger the storm, the 
sharper its onset. The Fourth Great Maelstrom began with miles-high geysers of 
black sludge erupting at the Somme. Within days, clouds carrying shards of dead 
soldiers’ dreams and the poisonous remains of dead soldiers’ tears towered over 
the moon. It took more than a decade for the last of them to subside. 
The strength of a Great Maelstrom ebbs and flows. Sometimes the storm is 
almost as intense as in the initial outbreak. Other times, it’s nearly calm. Wraiths can 
find no rhythm or pattern to these changes. Experience shows that wraiths must 
simply watchcarefully, take advantage of lulls and act swiftly when the storm returns. 
Fighting the storm requires wraiths to act on several fronts. Airborne, ground- 
based and seafaring soldiers set forth to fight the Spectres the storm carries. Arcanoi 
and force of will can drive back the storm itself. Finally, the Skinlands conditions 
that feed the storm must change to reduce the flow of passion into the void. Doing 
any of that in the midst of civil war (as is the case during and after the Great War) 
is hard, and it breeds unusual alliances. Some wraiths join forces against the storm 


no matter what else their fellow warriors may be doing while others would rather let 
the storm prevail than allow the wrong opponents to succeed. 
Wraiths depend on Citadels and Haunts for shelter during the years of a Great 
Maelstrom. Unfortunately, corporeal structures aren’t always much good. The stron- 
gest walls don’t help when the enemy comes from the skies, for instance, and stout roofs 
don’t help when defenders become demoralized. Oblivion’s generals routinely mobi- 
lize newly created Spectres as shock troops because the spectacle of one’s former friends 
and allies having become ravening creatures of the enemy weakens any wraith’s will 
to resist. A wraith who can turn off his feelings and deal with the problem without 
emotional burden is a wraith well on the way to becoming Shadow-Eaten himself. 
Wraiths caught outside shelter when the storm winds pick up must 
improvise as best they can. Some put hooks into the ground to keep themselves 
from blowing away. Others link their armor together to form a single unit 
massive enough to resist most efforts at displacement. 
The Great Maelstrom carries pieces of wraiths and of souls that never became 
wraiths, along with a lot of generic plasm and countless Plasmics. Fragments of bone, 
shards of memories and the occasional relic bullet fall from the sky during a storm. The 
Scavenger Folk specialize in following storm fronts and harvesting whatever looks 
useful. Most are skilled craftsmen and relic maintainers. They maintain a complex 
language of their own, much like wandering nomadic traders in the Skinlands, and 
they are rumored to possess special arts in Fa&, 
Phanm, fifeweb and Usury. 
Limb markets flourish in every Necropolis after a particularly strong storm blows 
through. Relic and Artifact limbs, whose owners are now so much shredded plasm, are 
always in demand. Some wraiths enter the Shadowlands missing one or more limbs 
while more lose them in the course of the war. Gleaners must be quick: Severed limbs 
dissipate unless kept wet in plasm until a master Moliator can stabilize them. The 
resulting trade encourages all sorts of official and unofficial deals for sponsorship, 
protection rackets and even (sometimes) peaceful, mutually profitable commerce. 
MAELSTROM 
FORCE LEVELS 
The Beaufort-Granogrec Scale, developed by members of the Iron Legion’s 
Office of Maelstrom Preparedness, classifies storms on a 1-5 scale. 
Force One. Winds blow to 40 mph, with occasional gusts higher. The storm 
consists mostly of water-like liquids brought up from the Tempest. The little solid 
debris that falls includes few pieces more than an inch or so long, almost none of it with 
sharp edges or other dangerous features. Dead and dying Plasmics sometimes fall. Few 
Spectres travel in Force-One storms. Exposed wraiths take no more than a maximum 
of four levels of damage per hour, generally no more than one. Two levels of armor 
provide complete protection, as do even minimal walls and ceilings. Haunts reduce 
damagebytwolevelsperHauntrating, evenwhenthestructureitselfis physically weak. 
ForceTwo. Windsblow to8Omph, withsomestrongergusts.~in~llsco~tantly 
andgenerally containssmelly, strangely coloredliquidsandlive,wrig&ng Plasmics. Solid 
debris, ranging from divots of Shadowlands ground to wind-polished shards of bone and 
Stygian steel, falls constantly. Spectres move routinely through the storm. Wraiths take 
a one+Trait penalty to movement-related challenges while exposed, and they suffer four 
to six levels of damage per hour outside. Some or all of this damage is aggravated about 
one-quarter of the time. Armor provides its usual protection, while Haunts reduce 
damage by one level per Haunt rating. The storm breaks windows, rips away loose roofs 
and the like, but it cannot blow through solid structures. 
Force Three. Winds blow to 120 mph or more. Torrents of rainfall, mixed half- 
and-half (or more) with bizarre and dangerous liquids, unknown living creatures and 
hazardous debris. Smtres move through the storm and convexe on wraiths out from 


every hour, and this damage is aggravated up to half the time. Armor provides one less 
level of protection than usual. Haunts reduce damage by one level per Haunt rating. 
Wraiths take a two-Trait penalty to all physical activities while outdoors. The storm 
smashes through flimsy doors, roofs and walls, leaving occupants vulnerable. 
Force Four. Winds blow 200 mph or more. Rain and debris slashes in from 
all angles to penetrate any space not tightly sealed off. Spectres converge on 
exposed wraiths in as little as a minute. Wraiths take a three-Trait penalty to all 
challenges while outdoors. Exposed wraiths suffer eight to 12 levels of damage 
every hour. One or more levels of this damage i s  aggravated half the time. Armor 
provides one less level of protection than usual, and Haunts block one less level 
of damage than usual. Structures that are not reinforced collapse in short order. 
Force Five. No means exist to measure wind speeds, which far exceed 
those of Skinlands hurricanes. Anyone outside gets whisked away, never to be 
seen again. Spectres converge in seconds on anyone outside. Exposed wraiths 
take 14 or more levels of damage every hour; some or all of this may become 
aggravated at the Storyteller’s discretion. Armor and Haunts provide half their 
usual protection. Only the best-prepared structures survive intact. 
Force-Five winds blow only at the outbreak of a Great Maelstrom or in the 
most dire conditions. Force-Four storms occur occasionally in response to 
massive genocide and other horrors and in the early years of a Great Maelstrom. 
Force-Three winds strike most Necropoli every few decades, and Force-Two 
winds do so every few years. Most Necropoli experience a Force-One wind at 
least once a year and almost continuously during a Great Maelstrom. 
T H E  OTHERARTSOETHE 
DEAD 
The Great Maelstrom makes long-distance travel very difficult and dangerous. 
It disrup tsthe ties that bindwraiths to faraway FetterssothatevenaHarrowingwon’t 
suddenly take a wraith back to the motherland. Souls of foreign soldiers that would 
normally go to another Dark Kingdom are stuck in Stygian lands for the duration, 
just as the souls of Europeans and Americans who die elsewhere seldom make it back 
to their own homes. The presence of these exiles creates social tensions. 
Soldiers from the various colonies in Asia and Africa fight in Europe on behalf 
of their colonial masters, and some die. Wraiths from Africa generally hide, 
particularly after the Ivory Trail begins. The wraiths in the Bush of Ghosts work a 
powerful ritual that compels trapped wraiths who’d normally go to Stygia to walk- 
without rest - 
from Africa to Europe. A great many Stygian wraiths perish in the 
storms or from other adversaries, and those who survive generally suffer permanent 
injuries. Wraiths capable of imposing such acurse seem monstrous and fearsome, and 
they risk capture by the Hierarchy or destruction at the hands of hghtened mobs. 
Indian wraiths face a much less dire situation. They don’t know the full 
scope of the horror that waits for them back home, and many suffer from 
profound disillusionment at finding how little of Buddhist, Hindu or other faith 
seems true in the Underworld. Some Indian wraiths exhibit a special Arcanos, 
one valuable in many contexts. Some become enslaved, but others find comfort- 
able patronage. Those who can’t go home pursue an independent existence. 
BEHEST 
Stygian observers speak of the Bush of Ghosts as if the African Shadowlands 
were a single thing. Some would-be scholars take words from a single language and 
assume that all African wraiths use them. In truth, Africa is a continent with 
hundreds of peoples. Their languages vary, as do their concepts of the nature of the 
soul, the afterlife and the role of the dead. The reality of the Underworld doesn’t 
precisely match any mortal’s teachings; all African wraiths face surmises. 


INNATE 
ABILITY 
Link. The wraith senses areas, individuals and objects connected to some 
target wraith. He medicates and exhales a cloud of smoke, which condenses into 
a series of images that show points that the target regards as significant. The 
images don’t provide clues as to scale or distance. 
System: Make a Mental Challenge against the target. If s u d l ,  the wraith using 
Behest sees an image of a place the target recently visited, or an object important to the 
target. Spend one mental trait to see a signhcant relic or Amfact, two Mental Traits to 
see the target‘s chief Haunt and three Mental Traits to see one of the target’s Fetters. 
Using Link with a skinmask or severed extremity of the target gets a Mental Trait 
bonus ofone. The user gainsnodfficulty mdifier for using Lmk in the target’schiefHaunt 
or while handting one of his Fetters. Using Lmk with just some object the target recently 
handled or in a place the target’s been recently imposes a Mental Trait penalty of one. 
Delve. The wraith enters a trance state and senses part of the target’s recent 
exprience.Debdoesn’trevealwhatthetargetthought, 
just what theenvironmentwas. 
System: Spend one Pathos and make a Social Challenge against the target. 
If successful, the Delver learns the target’s recent mood. Spend a Mental Trait 
while roleplaying being in trance state to receive impressions from one sense 
about the target’s surroundings. With three or more senses activated, the Delver 
receives a vivid and complete re-creation of the environment in those senses, as 
details from one sense complement those in another. Spend another Mental 
Trait to learn when the target had this experience. 
Trace. If the wraith grasps an object belonging to the target or occupies a space 
the target recently vacated, she can determine where the target is. The wraith expels 
a cloud of smoke which illuminates strands of Fate. The one leading to the target glows. 
System: Spend one Corpus, take one level of damage and make a Mental 
Challenge. If successful, the wraith knows the direction in which the target lies. 
Spend one Mental Trait to learn the target’s general distance or two for a precise 
location. If the tracer spends two Mental Traits thus, the target can make a 
Mental Challenge to be aware of being watched. The glowing strand remains 
visible to the tracer for one hour per level of Behest he knows. 
(Note: Behest includes two distinct paths of development at the Interme- 
diate level. Wraiths must learn the Right-Hand Path arts of Scly and Divine first. 
They can then turn to the Left-Hand Path arts of Twitch, Murmur and Veer. 
There is no known Advanced ability for the Right-Hand Path. If it once existed, 
it’s been lost now, or its teaching has long been guarded closely. No Stygian 
wraith has ever encountered an African wraith who knew it.) 
INTERMEDIATE 
ABILITIES: 
BIC~HT- 
HAND PATH 
BASIC 
ABILITIES 


against eight Traits. Failure disperses the smoke so that the wraith can’t examine it any 
further. Spend a Mental Trait to bring the scene into clear focus and avoid the need for 
separate challenges. The Smoke lasts for one turn per level of Behest the wraith knows. 
Twitch. The wraith must first use Scry on a target, and he can then move 
the target’s Corpus in small ways. A rolled eye, a peculiar tingle or a stumble may 
not seem like much, but at the right time, they can be devastating. 
System: First use Scry, as usual. Spend one Pathos and gain one Angst, then 
make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the wraith can give the target one 
minor nudge in some specific way, plus one per Physical Trait spent. The target 
can resist each by spending a Trait of Willpower to cancel the action. 
Murmur. This art lets the wraith speak through the target’s mouth, using 
the victim’s own voice. 
System: First use Scry as usual. Spend two Pathos, gain one Angst and make 
a Mental Challenge. If successful, the wraith can make the target speak one 
specific sentence, plus one per MentalTrait spent. The target may resist each by 
spending a point of Willpower to cancel the action. 
ADVANCED 
ABILITY: 
LEET HAND PATH 
I N T E R M E D I A T E  ARTS: LEET- HAND 
P A T H  
Veer. The wraith can direct the target like a puppet, controlling the 
target’s motor skills. 
System: First use Scry as usual. Spend two Pathos and one Willpower and 
gain one Angst. Make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the wraith controls the 
target for one turn, plus one turn per Physical Trait spent. The target can resist 
the wraith‘s direction for one turn by spending a Willpower Trait. 
This Arcanos combines elements of Kinesis, Moliute and Usury to create the 
“foods” and other decorations that make Swar, the Dark Kingdom of India, seem 
so lifelike. No Stygian can learn this art. 
The Tvashtriya, the practitioners ofDcjplace, organize themselves into something 
like a Guild. The Hierarchy maintains no treaties with Swm, so local authorities set 
policy as they wish. Ingeneral, knownpractitionersofDisphce withinstygian territory 
face enslavement, or - 
if they’re lucky - 
recruiting pitches they’d be unwise to turn 
down. The Artificers’, Usurers’ and Masquers’ Guilds seek Tvashtriya just as enthusi- 
astically as the Hierarchy, hoping to master the Arcanm themselves. 
Innate Abilities 


System: Make a Static Physical Challenge against the number of hours the 
wraith wishes to remain hidden. If successful, the wraith merges with his target. 
Only the Artificer ability Sense Rider can detect him. Destruction of the object 
inflicts one level of damage and reveals him back in the Shadowlands. 
Sense Rider. The wraith may detect other wraiths in her vicinity who are 
Straddling material objects or Wraithriding the Corpus of someone else (or herself). 
System: Make a Static Mental Challenge against six Traits. If successful, 
the wraith learns whether a target material object or wraithly Corpus is being 
ridden. Spend one Mental Trait to determine the number and general nature of 
those using Struddle or Wraithride and another Mental Trait to determine 
whether a currently vacated target has been ridden recently. 
Basic Abilities 
Wraithride. The wraith makes contact with another wraith’s Corpus and 
slips inside for an indefinite period. She finds herself in a dark, quiet place, and she 
can sense nothing of her environment except knowing when the host is in Slumber 
or when someone is trying to detect her (which produces a faint buzzing noise). She 
cannot control or influence the host; she suffers equally whenever the host takes 
damage, and she can be dragged with the host into Harrowings. Likewise, if she does 
something to trigger a Harrowing for herself, the host gets dragged with her. 
System: Make a Mental Challenge against the target wraith to invade his 
Corpus. If successful, the Wraithrider merges until she chooses to leave. Another 
would-be Wraithrider must win a Physical Challenge to displace her. Sense R~der 
and Sense Kinesis may detect the Wraithrider, as may Transfer and other Usury arts 
if the user of these arts wins a Mental Challenge against the Wraithrider. 
Deflect. The wraith learns to conceal himself more thoroughly and to 
deflect damage his host suffers. The host still suffers said damage, but the 
passenger may escape by using Defkct. 
System: ThewraithmustfirstuseStr& or Wraiduide. To avoiddetection, thewraith 
must notice someone probing for him (intentionally or otherwise). Make a Mental 
Challenge against the examining wraith. If successful, the wraithusing JAjktwins on ties 
in upcoming challenges by the examiner, and he may reduce the examiner’s Mental or 
Social Trait total for a single challenge by one for each point of Pathos spent (The wraith 
must commit h 
energy wme resolving the designad challenge.) To avoid takmg 
damage, the wraith must touch a target who can receive i t  Make a Socd Challenge. If 
s u d ,  the wraith transfers one level of damage per level ofJ&dace the wraith knows. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Transfuse. The Wraithriding wraith lends Pathos to (or takes Pathos 
from) her host. The host notices this transaction if he is not in Slumber, and 
bystanders see a brief scintillation when the Wraithrider lends Pathos. Likewise, 
they notice a brief wave of darkness when the Wraithrider takes Pathos. 
System: First use Wraithride. Make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the 
Transfuser can give or take one level of Pathos, plus one per Physical Trait spent. 
It costs one Angst to take Pathos, none to give it. 
~
T
h
e
w
c
a
n
m
~
~
~
h
~
s
~
~
.
H
e
c
a
n
~
trampent or conductive to sound, or he can rework it as ifbyM&. 
Minor alterations 
that don’t change the wraith’s corporeal configuration can take place during Slumber 
without rousin~ the host More serious work alwaw attracts the hast’s attention. 
System:l%stuse Wraidmde.SpendonePathk.GainoneAngstifthehostiswilling, 
two if the host resists. Make a Mental Challenge against the host. If successful, the wraith 
can start moddjmg the host. Doing so always costs the host one level of Corpus. Minor 
charges proceed automatically. Changes comparable to the Moliate art of Sculpt require 


Advanced Ability 
Transmogrify. The master ofDisplace can change a host’s Corpus into almost 
anything, including forms suitable for consumption as Pathos “nourishment.” 
System: First use Wraithride. Spend two Pathos and gain three Angst. Make 
an Extended Mental Challenge against the host. A single success lets the wraith 
work general transformations. Three or more successes let the wraith turn the 
host into an edible form, often a pile of fruit in which each fruit holds one Trait 
of the host’s Pathos. Transmogrify creates permanent changes. 
0 BLIVION ’ s EOOT- SOLDIERS 
: M ORTWI ~ H T S  
Every pyramid has a bottom. The Mortwights are the lowest of the Shadow-Eaten, 
the ones that all other Spectres despise. Until modem times, only a few Mortwights 
appeared in the Shadowlands in any year. However, the psychic traumas of mass life and 
mass death make more of them every year. Other Spectres see this population boom as 
an infestation of vermin. Cut off from the living, from the Restless Dead who aren’t yet 
Shadow-Eaten and from the mass of Spectral societies, Mortwights form communities 
of their own or pass a solitary time until Oblivion claims them altogether. 
Playing a Mortwight isn’t easy, and Storytellers should feel free to go very slowly in 
approving Mortwight characters for their chronicles. Some Mortwights band together 
to strike out at their enemies on both sides of the Shroud. Some pursue Spectral status 
andauthority.Someseekredemption.. . asaformofsuicide,hopingtotumthemindthey 
nowhaveintonothingmorethananechointhebackofthehead,afadingmemorymn 
lost as the Psyche goes on to some condition far from the Shadow. All three of these 
motives can play serious havoc with a chronicle. Plan carefully. 
Each Mortwight normally takes two levels of damage for eachday spent in the 
Shadowlands from the spiritual stresses of being so close to life. The storms sustain 
Mortwights, however. While Maelstrom winds blow, make a Static Angst Test 
against a difficulty of nine Traits, minus one per level of the storm. If this test 
succeeds, reduce the day’s damage by one if the storm level is Force Three or less. 
Cancel the day’s damage altogether if the Maelstrom force level is four or five. 
C R E A T I N ~ A  
M O R T W I ~ H T  
CHARACTER 
Concept. Choose a Nature and Demeanor from the Shadow Archetypes 
that appear in Oblivion and part one of this article (Mind’s Eye Theatre 
Journal: Issue 5 ,  p. 45). Remember that a living person becomes a Mortwight 
by dying in some particularly terrible and unpleasant way. 
Attributes and Abilities. Assign Attribute and Abilities levels as usual. 
*ArcanoiGmtWar-eraMortwightsbeginwithonelevelinHive-Mmd,onelevel 
in Tempest Wavingand five levels of other Dark Arcanoi. Mortwights created when the 
Great Maelstroms don’t blow begin with one level of Hive-Mind and five levels of other 
Dark Arcanoi. Mortwights can only learn reg& Arcanoi in the course of play. 
Backgrounds. Assign five levels of Backgrounds. Mortwights cannot 
acquire Eulolon, Notoriety or Status. 
Dark Passions and Fetters. Choose four Dark Passions and four Fetters 
as usual. Most Mortwights have the place of death as a Fetter, and all the Fetters 
related to painful or otherwise unpleasant moments. Mortwights cannot resolve 
Fetters, but they can lose them to destruction. 
Angst and Being. Your character begins with five Angst Traits and three 
Being Traits, as given in Oblivion. 
Corpus. Your character begins with 10 Corpus. Each time the Mortwight 
fails a challenge, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the Mortwight loses a level 


*FreeTraits.YouhavefiveFreeTraitstoallocateasyouwkh. UsethechartinLaws 
of the Night, p. 71. Basic Arcanoi cost four Traits to acquire at this time; Intermediate 
Arcanoi cost seven Traits, and you cannot begrn play with Advand Arcanoi. 
CONTAMINATE 
This Dark Arcanos feeds the power of Oblivion in others. It manifests in 
many ways, much like Castigation does: Some Spectres practice a sick form of 
battlefield medicine, while others peddle Spectral booze or drugs. Each Spectre 
has a distinctive style to Contaminate. 
Basic Abilities 
Dissect. The Spectres discerns the target’s Nature by examining its 
System: Make a Mental Challenge to learn the target’s Nature. 
Contamination of the Tongue. The Spectre can speak directly to a wraith’s 
Shadow, and the Shadow can provide brief answers even when not in Catharsis. 
System: Make a Social Challenge. If successful, the Spectre can ask the 
target one question or make a one-sentence statement and get a one-sentence 
response. Each Mental Trait spent lets the Spectre add another question or 
statement. The Shadow takes momentary control of the target, speaking with 
the wraith‘s voice and mouth, which is both obvious and disconcerting. 
echoes in the target’s Shadow. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Contamination of the Soul. The Spectre drains her own Angst (usually as a 
dark noxious fluid) and pours it into the target, strengthening the target’s Shadow. 
Some Spectres spit the liquefied Angst; some open wounds and “bleed” into them; 
some inject the Angst with a Moliated syringe; others use even less pleasant methcds. 
System: Spend one Angst and make a Static Physical Challenge against the 
target’s Willpower. The Spectre transfers one point of Angst, plus one per 
Mental Trait spent. The Spectre’s Psyche gains a point of Composure. The 
Angst remains fluid for one minute to allow time for injection or other handling. 
Contaminationof theMind.TheSpectrehe1psanother’sShadowintoCatharsis. 
System: Spend twohgst and make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the target’s 


The temporary Abilities last for one hour, orperhapsmore. Attheendofthe hour, 
the target makes a Static Willpower Test for each Ability gained against a total of 10 
Traits, minus the Maelstrom force level. On a tie or loss, the target loses that Ability. 
This art is the Spectral analogue to Puppetry - 
techniques for turning a 
mortal’s soul into something sufficiently tuned to the Spectre so that the dead 
manipulator can take control without ever seeming obvious about it. 
CORRUPTION 
Innate Abilities 
Sense Likeness. The Spectre looks for the signs of Oblivion already 
working in mortal targets. 
System: Make a Static Mental Challenge against the local Shroud rating, 
minus the Maelstrom force level. Success lets the Spectre find a suitable mortal 
victim in the area, receptive to manipulation. The Storyteller defines the nature 
of the target: a villain, an ambitious but weak soul, someone in the grip of a Dark 
Passion or whatever suits the story. 
Soul Leech. This art is the Spectral version of possession, more powerful 
and more dangerous than Puppetry. 
System: Spend one Angst and make a Social Challenge. If successful, the Spectre 
slips unnoticed into his target, and he can use the other arts 0fC-h. 
The Spectre 
experiences the target’s senses, losing all thedistinctively wraithly senses like Deathsight. 
The limitations of Puppetry, such as vulnerability to electroshock, apply to SoulLeech. 
The possession lasts for one hour, plus one for each Social Trait spent. 
Note: The Basic, Intermediate and Advanced abilities of Corruption all 
require the Spectre to first use Soul Leech on the target. 
Basic Abilities 
Lucid Visions. The Spectre inflicts a momentary, violent flash of 
imagination on the target. The information content of the vision must fit in a 
single simple sentence, like “Go through the fire escape door,” but the emotional 
content and associations in memory can be very complex. 
System: Spend one Angst and make a Social Challenge to inflict a single 
vision on the target. 
Unbidden Hands. The Spectre makes the target’s physical bcdy do something 
without the target realizing it consciously. The task cannot be lethal or self-destmctive. 
System: Spend three Angst and make a Physical Challenge. If successful, the 
Spectre gains covert control of the target’s body for 10 minutes, plus 10 minutes for 
each Trait by which the Spectre’s Being is greater than the target’s Willpower. The 
target cannot spend Willpower to resist Unlrdden H a d .  Example tasks include 
writing, “The bastard must die!” over and over while thinking about an ex-lover, or 
tying nooses while thinking about how much fun it will be to play with a new dog. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Urges. The Spectre forces the target to take asingle action which satisfies one 
of the Spectre’s Dark Passions and which, on some level, the target would like to do. 
System: Spend two Angst and make a standard Passion Test. If the Spectre 
would gain Angst from the intended action, then make a Social Challenge to 
force the target to act that way. If the Social Challenge succeeds, the Spectre 
gains the Angst indicated in the Passion Test; otherwise the two Angst just go 
down the drain. The target may spend Willpower to resist the compulsion. If the 
Social Challenge fails, make two Simple Tests. If both tests fail, the target feels 
a deep revulsion toward the command, and the Spectre can’t try to Urge the 
target to any other action based on the chosen Dark Passion for the next full day. 


Blissful Unity. The Spectre makes a permanent place for herself in the 
target’s soul. The target retains self-awareness, but he carries out the Spectre’s 
instructions without realizing that they come from someone else’s will. 
System: The Spectre must first attune the target as a Consort (seeoblivion, 
p. 98). Spend five Angst and one permanent Being, and make a Social 
Challenge, with no modifications for Consort status. If successful, the Spectre 
plants the first hooks. If the test fails, make two Simple Tests. If both fail, the 
Spectre botches and can never again attempt Blissful Unity with that target. 
Once established, the Spectre wears down the target’s resistance by accu- 
mulating successes on Extended Social Challenges equal to the target’s Willpower. 
The Spectre may make one such challenge per day, at the cost of two Angst and 
one temporary Being. If the Spectre accumulates no successes at all on a 
particular Extended Challenge, the next effort costs an additional point of 
Angst. Once the Spectre does get the necessary challenges, the target is hers to 
do with as she pleases. The target counts as a Fetter, and the Spectre can use Soul 
Leech against her automatically, at the cost of one Angst but without achallenge. 
Most victims of Blissful Unity go immediately to Oblivion when they die. A 
few become Mortwights. 
HIVE- MIND 
Distress Signal. The Spectre sends out a non-verbal call for help; it carries 
only the message “I’m in trouble!” 
System: Make a Static Social Challenge against seven Traits (or six Traits if the 
Maelstrom level is from three to five). If successful, the Spectre summons one Spectre 
who appears within a few turns via Nihil or Arcanos use, plus another Spectre for each 
Social Trait spent. Storytellers may delay the summoned help a few minutes on some 
occasions, but Distress Signal is supped to be useful. Spectres who arrive after the crisis 
do no good, and players shouldn’t feel that they’re wasting their effort. 
Basic Abilities 
Silent Whispers. The Spectre sends a mental message to any other 
Spectre within line of sight. This ability only sends messages; it does not grant 
the recipient the power to reply without also using Hive-mind. 
System: Make a Social Challenge. If successful, the Spectre can transmit 
one simple sentence, plus one per Social Trait spent. 
Distant Whispers. The Spectre engages in a two-way telepathic conver- 
sation with any other Spectre known to the one using Distant Whispers, 
regardless of the distance between them. 


System: Spend one Angst and make a Mental Challenge. If successful, the 
Spectre and the recipient can each send one simple sentence, plus one each per 
Mental Trait either chooses to spend. 
Intermediate Abilities 
Recall the Known. The Spectre can access information he once knew but 
has since forgotten, or learned only in passing. 
System: Spend one Angst and make a Static Mental Challenge against 
eight Traits (or seven Traits if the Maelstrom level is from three to five). If 
successful, the Spectre recalls one specific piece of information (and he can 
attempt one specific use of an Ability), plus one per Mental Trait spent. 
Recall the Unknown. The Spectre can probe through the Hive-Mind into other 
Spectres’ thoughts and memories, including those who’ve smce gone on to Oblivion. 
System: Spend two Angst and make a Static Mental Challenge against eight 
Traits. If successful, the Spectre recalls a particular piece of information for one 
turn, plus one turn per mental Trait spent. Recall the Unknown cannot teach the 
use of Arcanoi, but pretty much everything else is accessible through this art. 
Advanced Ability 
Racial Memory. The Spectre can draw on all knowledge in the Hive- 
Mind, including Arcanoi and Dark Arcanoi she hasn’t learned herself. 
System: Spend two Angst and one Being, and gain one temporary Compo- 
sure. Make an Extended Static Mental Challenge against nine Traits. If 
successful, the Spectre learns one Arcanos or Dark Arcanos at one level per two 
Mental Traits (rounded up). He retains knowledge of the Arcanos for one turn 
per success in the challenge. 
SHROUD- 
RENDINC~ 
Only Mortwights learn this Dark Arcanos; other Spectres lack the lingering 
ties to the mortal world that make it possible, and in fact most other Spectres 
don’t even suspect it exists. Spectres of other castes cannot see Mortwights 
who’ve entered the Skinlands via Shroud-Rending. 
System: Spend two Angst and one Being; the Psyche gains one Composure. Make 
astatic Challenge ofthe Mortwight’s Physical Traits plus 1evelsofShroud-Rendingagainst 
the local Shroud rating minus the Maelstrom force level (minimum difficulty of five 
Traits). If s u c d l ,  the Mortwight rips open a hole in the Shroud and plunges through, 
taking a level of damage while crossing the Shroud. The Mortwight exists in the 
Skinlands in intangible form. She can use all Arcanoi and Dark Arcanoi that affect the 
Skinlands, but not ones that normally work only in the Underworld. The Mortwight’s 
safe timeintheSkinlandsandhowoftentheMortwightcanuseShroud-Rendingdepend 
the levels of Shroud-Rendmg the Mortwight knows. 
The Mortwight can travel freely, but must he return to the exact spot she 
crossed the Shroud to return to the Underworld. Shroud-Rending works only 
when initiated from the Underworld, so a Mortwight unable to return to the 
point of entry is in serious trouble until she can return or some other Mortwight 
opens a hole through which she can return. 
After the safe time passes, the Mortwight loses one Trait of Angst per hour, 
down to a minimum of one Trait. Exercising Dark Passions adds new Angst, 
which also drains away. After Angst reaches one, Being falls by one Trait per 
hour to a minimum of one. Then Mental and Social Traits drain away one per 
hour, in whatever order the player chooses, down to zero. At this point, the 
Mortwight is a mindless hulk driven only by its Dark Passions. The Dark Passions 
drop away, one per day, leaving behind only the one that last generated Angst 


Permanent Being falls by one, as a mark of the trauma. 
Arcanos Level 
How Much Time 
once per two weeks 
TEMPEST 
WEAVINC~ 
The art of Tempest-exploitation comes naturally to Mortwights. Spectral 
scholars theorize some hidden connection or covert plan of Oblivion’s greatest 
servants, without (so far) any evidence to support their speculations. 
Innate Abilities 
Storm-Horn. The Spectre can hearthe distinctive voice of everyNihi1 m the area 
so as to recognize each one in the future. (The Shadowlands and Tempest or Labyrinth 
ends of a Nihil sound recognizably the same.) The Spectre can also speak to a Nihil, 
quietingitsownvoicesothattheSpectrecanhearthesoundscomingfromtheotherend. 
System: Make a Static Mental Challenge against six Traits. If successful, 
the Spectre hears the nearest Nihil, plus one more (in order of increasing 
distance) per level of Maelstrom force level over Force One. The ability has no 
upper limit on range. The Spectre’s player may make a Static Mental Challenge 
against four Traits to recognize a Nihil she’s heard before, and she may make a 
Static Social Challenge against four Traits to quiet the Nihil for one hour. 
During this time, she hears whatever’s said at the other end. 
Hole in the World. After identifying a Nihil with Storm-Horn, the 
Spectre can travel through it, even if it’s been sealed off. 
System: Make a Static Physical Challenge against eight Traits, minus the 
local Maelstrom level. If successful, the Spectre opens a closed Nihil for one turn 
and can even jump through. It takes a few turns, at the Storyteller’s discretion, 
to emerge at the other end. 
Basic Abilities 
Storm-Lash. The Spectre draws strength from the Maelstrom. She steps 
bare, free of all clothing, equipment and other encumbrances, into the storm and 
emerges invigorated. 
System: Spend one Angst and make a Static Physical Challenge against 10 
Traits, minus the local Maelstrom level. If successful, the Spectre regains one point of 
Corpusortemporary AngstperlevelofMaelstromrating. Ifthespectre hasfullCorpus 
ur Angst (not necessarily both), extra points may raise temporary Being. The process 
takes one turn per Trait regained, and the Spectre can use it as often as she likes. 
Thread of Corruption. The Spectre infects a relic with Maelstrom force. The 
taint of Oblivionrequires anyone not yet Shadow-Eaten to gain Angst in the course 
ofusing the relic. Tainted relics emit unique notes that Tempest Weavers can track. 


System: Make a Static Mental Challenge agamt sevenTraits, plus the relic’s rating, 
minus the local Maelstrom force level. If successful, the Spectre corrupts the relic. 
Thereafter, anyone except a Spectre or a wraith rn Catharsis gains one point of Angst 
upon using the relic. All ans that detect Oblivion’s presence reveal the corruption. 
Intermediate Arts 
Unweave the Self. The Spectre unravels her Corpus into storm-carried threads. 
System: Spend one Angst and make Static Physical Challenge against nine Traits, 
minus the local Maelstrom level. If suae.sfi.11, the Spectre becomes a small collection of 
Maelstrom debris resembling ashredded gament, capable of moving wherever the wind 
blows. The Spectre can remain unwoven for one hour per level of Maelstrom rating. It 
takes one turn of concentrated effort for the Spectre to weave or unweave hedf. 
Reweaving. The Spectre pulls pieces of objects from the storm or 
Destruction Harrowings and reassembles them, albeit without much control 
over what the storm delivers. 
System: Spend one Angst, gain one Composure and make an Extended 
Static Physical Challenge against seven Traits minus the local Maelstrom level 
(minimum difficulty of four Traits). 
One success produces a small object without combat applications - 
a 
favored toy or other small Fetter of a wraith now lost to Oblivion, for instance. 
Two successes let the object carry a Trait of Dark Passion, which the Spectre can 
suck out and convert into Angst. Three successes produce the pieces of a one- 
or two-Trait relic, generally one destroyed recently in the storm. 
The Spectre can attempt to find some specific sort of object. A broad class of 
objects, like any pistol or any pocket watch, raises the base difficulty of the challenge 
to eight traits, while the hunt for a particular object raises the base difficulty to LO. 
Reweaving takes one turn in any event. The object lasts for one hour per success in 
the challenge unless the Spectre chooses to let it collapse earlier. 
Advanced Ability 
Carve the Chaos. The Spectre imposes his will on the Tempest, turning 
it into a solid form. It works in the Labyrinth and the Tempest all the time, and 
in the Shadowlands when the Maelstrom level is Force One or more. 
System: Spend two Angst and one Being, gain two Composure, and make a 
Static Mental Challenge. The difficulty is seven Traits in the Labyrinth or 
Tempest, nine Traits during ForceThree (and greater) storms or lOTraits inForce 
One or Two storms. If successful, the Spectre can make whatever he chooses out 
of a space 20 feet on a side. Only the Spectre’s imagination limits the range of 
possible creations. The carved chaos reverts to its normal form in one hour. 
O T H E R  D A R K  ARCANOI 
This list is not an exhaustive one of all available Dark Arcanoi. See 
Doomslayers: Into the Labyrinth and Wraith: The Great War for more. Use 
the given Dark Arcanoi as guidelines for conversions. In general, when the 
tabletop rules provide so much result per success rolled, make a Simple Test and 
provide extra result per Trait spent of whatever sort the challenge requires. 
T H E  
K I N C ~ O E T H E  
DEAD: CHARON 
One of the most distinctive features of the Great War era is that Charon, 
founder of the Stygian Empire, still exists in the Shadowlands. He’s absent from 
his public duties, traveling incognito through his territory. He’s filled with 
doubts in the early 20th century. Did he do the right thing in founding and 


As the single most powerful individual in the empire, Charon doesn’t really 
need statistics. He can, within very broad limits, do what he wants. Therefore, 
Storytellers who want to use him in their chronicles must do so very carefully 
because he can easily destroy characters and everything meaningful to them. 
Charon the man doesn’t wish to shatter his empire but to understand it. You 
must make sure that Charon the character doesn’t wreck your chronicle. 
The Imperator travels incognito, Moliated by the very best of the Masquers’ Guild 
and assisted with the mental powers of the Mnemoi. Work out the statisticsfor the cover 
identity, and expect that Charon stays within his chosen boundaries mat of the time. 
In his own form, Charon is asomewhat small manofGreek appearance. (Average 
human height rises over time thanks to improved medicine and nutrition.) He’s quiet 
most of the time, but intensely alert. His accumulated power manifests as a subliminal 
pull. Like him or hate him, nobody can ignore his presence unless he makes a constant 
calculated effort to appear average. The whole point of his traveling in disguise is that 
he wants to see what others say when they’re not compelled to treat him as Imperator. 
When he deems it necessary to act, though, nobody doubts who he is. Only later do 
people realize that he commands a great deal more power than commanding 
appearance, and conflicting stories of his actual appearance circulate. 
Remember that Charon knows his fate. The Lady of Fate explained it to him long 
ago. HeknowswhenthisGreatMaelstromendsandhowtheInsurrectionends; 
heknows 
when the next Great Maelstrom begins and the tangled web of his last moments in the 
Shadowlands. He won’t tell anyone else their fates, but he knows far more than anyone 
could and still remain happy. Very occasionally he tries to issue a warning to someone 
he’s become fond of, but experience shows that his doing so almost never works out well. 
An appearance by Charon should be avery special moment in the chronicle. 
He doesn’t spend very long in any given place. Introduce him in disguise and 
gradually make it clear that he knows far more than he should if he were no more 
than he claims. When he’s understood what’s going on where the characters are, 
he may reveal himself to them all, to a chosen few or even just to one soul. Then 
he’s on his way to somewhere else, in a new persona. In his wake, he should leave 
awe, perhaps a renewed determination to protect the Restless Dead in accordance 
with his driving dream and maybe a touch of confusion among the wicked. 
Charon has a lot of things in mind, and he may interact with the characters 
in many ways. These suggestions ate just some of the possibilities. 
The State of the Empire. Charon pays particular attention to the 
Anacreons and other officials in a Necropolis. He doubts that he’s built his 
empire wisely, and he wants to see just what they do. He usually presents himself 
as a soldier of the Emerald Legion weary of the war, uncertain of his loyalties and 
seeking sanctuary. Once in place, he listens to what others say about the officials, 
and he compares it with what the officials say and what he sees them doing. 
Shadows. Charon often travels as a typical Pardoner, plying his craft and 
studying the Shadows of his subject. He sometimes intervenes to stop particu- 
larly sadistic Pardoners. Depending on the circumstances, this action can 
unleash a complex network of ramifications among the local Pardoners and the 
groups for whom they provide services. 
Custodians. When he finds wraiths whose spirit he admires, Charon 


some compensatory benefits, such as a one-time grant from Charon of a boost 
in an Arcanos, or some other gift that helps them perform the task. 
Testing Hearts. Charon sometimes disguises himself to resemble an escaped 
Thrall seeking the help of some random Circle of wraiths. He tells a story of escaping 
vile slavers; later he fakes Catharsis and tells a story of being enslaved for horrible 
crimes. Do the characters help, and if so how? He doesn’t think there’s any single 
right answer, and he wants to see just what some random subjects of his empire do. 
Rescuers. Charon introduces himself as a Hierarch in exile seeking to 
return captured wraiths of other Dark Kingdoms to their homes. He wants to 
remove the rescued slaves as tools for the Hierarchy and the Grim Legion to fight 
over, and he needs the characters’ help in getting the wraiths on their way. 
Secretly, Charon also wants to tell the wraiths to tell their respective masters of 
his desire for a peaceful, honorable end to their antagonisms. He wishes to avoid 
the doom he sees coming for his empire. 
T H E  LANDSOETHE 
DEAD: 
PEOPLEAND 
PLACES 
The following is just aquick overview to suggest the range of settings possible 
In the Skinlands, the glory days of the Spanish empire are long gone. As 
long as their memory remains, however, the Necropolis in Barcelona will 
continue to glitter with the gold extracted for centuries from the Americas. 
Old-school Roman Catholicism flourishes openly and rumors circulate that 
Fishers aren’t hard to find. The influenza pandemic hits Europe in Spain, and 
Skeletal Legion forces are particularly strong here. 
Chancellor Bismarck presides over the safest Necropolis in Europe. Every 
wraith in the Necropolis spends one day a week in his assigned “Day Corps,’’ 
supplementing the permanent troops in patrol and guard duties. Bismarck isn’t 
a hidebound reactionary. In life, he sponsored educational and social reforms to 
against the storm and against the Grim Legion’s revolt. Stygian troops use this city 
as their base for operations throughout the region, including Wolseley’s multi- 
Legion force fighting Coldheart’s Spectral army in Russia, and traders cluster here 
under the troops’ protections. Existence continues here much as always. 


Chicago 
Penitent Anacreon Joseph P. 
Altgeld presides (or tries to) over a 
Necropolis in disarray. Some neigh- 
borhoods are calm and peaceful. In 
others, Spectres and Renegades ma- 
nipulate mortals openly for personal 
advantage. The city’s living gangs get 
supernatural assistance; after all, it’s 
all Pathos for the harvesting. 
New York City 
The Grim Legion holds sway. It’s 
dominated the city since the 1860s, 
and subduing the Loyalists therein 
didn’t take long. The Spooks’ Guild 
operates openly, trading the first fruits 
of Maelstrom gleaning for official pro- 
tection. On the other hand, a small 
enclave remains in the hands of the 
Legion of Fate and another in the 
Hands of the Hierarchy’s Fifth Legion. 
Independent wraiths move back and 
forth as they see opportunities, and they dodge the incessantly shifting frontier. 
Graft and corruption define all administrations in the area. 
Paris 
Paris isacity inlove withrevolution, and thesteady death tollofwar andplague 
keeps the Necropolis well-populated. The Smiling Lord finds a willing audience for 
his message at first, until the populace grows bored and decides that restoration 
would be more interesting than the Smiling Lord’s earnest regime. Anacreons come 
and go every few months. Heretics of all sorts flourish, with Christian and other 
religious movements clustered around the city’s cathedrals while Renegades build 
fragile utopias in the sewers and catacombs. The only constant for Paris is change. 


by Laura D. Hanson 
This article is the second in a limited series on the hows and wherefores of 
historicalLARPcostuming. W e  foundhuraat the 1999 Gen-Con, and we’re 
glad we did so. And for those astute readers out there who caught issue #4 of 
the Journal, no, Laura is not “Auntie Csilla.” 
Greetings once again! My name is Laura Hanson, and I work as a part-time 
costumer in New York City (among other things). I have been costuming myself 
and others for various Renaissance festivals and LARP’s for about 10 years, and 
somewhere along the way, I managed to pick up a degree in medieval history that 
has given me all kinds of insight into various amounts and kinds of research. 
In my last column, I discussed costuming concerns in Dark Ages Europe, the 
American Wild West and the Great War, and I gave a very brief overview of the 
fashions and clothing styles of each time. I also included some tips on how to 
dress and where to shop for items that would help to emulate that period without 
falling back on stereotypes for inspiration. 
When I turned in my first article, our illustrious developer said “Great! It’s 
just what I wanted! Now, could you please reverse all of that for your next 
piece? Maybe something about identifying headwear and accessories, and a bit 
with a dog. People love dogs.” 
“Sure,” I said, smiling. You always smile when talking to your developer. 
Even when he can’t see you. Even through clenched teeth. “I’d be happy to.” 
So, this time, I take a look at some of the more common (and accurate) character 
stereotypes from each of these three time periods. I also discuss ways to emulate them 
easily using evocative headgear, accessories, jewelry and so forth. Hopefdly these 
suggestionswill workasvisualcues to youralter-ego’srole insocietysoothersdon’thave 
to spend the first half-hour of play asking, ‘‘What is it your character does, again?“ 
Consider this article sort of a “fast-and-dirty” guide to costuming. 
Mention the Dark Ages to most people, and most of them (who know what 
you’re talking about) will bring up some fairly common stereotypes. Figures such 
as King Arthur and his knights, Guinevere and her ladies-in-waiting, court 
jesters, monks and Robin Hood tend to get mentioned the most. Those figures 
do actually have some basis in fact, although not always to the full extent to 
which they appear in media today. Kings, queens, knights, ladies, merchants, 
serfs and farmers all populated the period. 
The basic costume of the time was relatively simple. It consisted of long- 
sleeved, long-skirted dresses (sometimes in multiple layers) for the women, 
belted at the waist with a girdle of metal or cloth and with a veil of linen worn 
over the hair, which was worn long, often looped and braided into elaborate 
hairstyles. For the most part, men wore either short, thigh-length tunics with 


tights covering their legs or floor-length robes in much the same style as the 
women. Sumptuary laws governed who could wear what sorts of fabric, fur and 
colors so that clothing clearly defined each layer of the social strata. 
THE 
CHATELAINE, 
O R  L A D Y W I T H T H E K E Y S  
Due to the fact that the Lord of the manor was often away at war under the 
banner of whomever he owed fealty to, the Lady of the estate would often find 
herself in charge of the general upkeep of the estate and its surrounding lands. Her 
Ladyship was the only person on the estate who held keys to all of the locks in the 
castle or manor house, making her ring of keys a significant visual cue to the power 
she held. To emulate this station with a prop, find the largest metal ring that you 
can and thread keys onto it. Antique keys work best, of course, but if you aren’t 
lucky enough to have an eccentric aunt with an attic full of nifty props, you can 
often purchase modem copies (of the keys) from craft or do-it-yourself jewelry or 
bead shops. After you have your ring assembled, tie it to a length of ribbon, cord 
or chain, then allow it to dangle authoritatively from your waist over your skirts. 
Without question, the most distinctive piece of costuming you can invest in 
is the jester hat. This hat is the definitive article of clothing for a court jester, and 
it comes in a variety of styles, all of which have several basic things in common. 
For instance, jester hats have multiple points that either hang down like floppy dog 
ears or have stuffing so that they stand away from the head. They come in multiple 
colors, and they often have bells sewn on at the points and a stiff brim cut to 
resemble a crown (something that developed from the fools mockery of kings and 
princes). These hats are fairly easy to find at costuming shops or Renaissance 
Festivals (or even those funky hat shops that show up in malls). 
The rest of the costume of the fool is also quite distinct and very brightly colored. 
Often, his clothes were the cast-offs of his betters, pieced together from worn out suits 
of clothing so that he might have one legging in one color, one in another and a tunic 
from still a third outfit, none of which matched. The best way to evoke this look for 
your jester character is to make sure that nothing matches; avoid co-ordination 
completely. Even if the clothes are modern, if you think like a little kid getting dressed 
on her own for the first time, you can look pretty clownish. After that, add jingle bells. 
Tie them onto your clothing at your wrists, ankles, knees, elbows (anywhere really) 
with ribbons in bright, obnoxious colors. Okay, so you can’t sneak up on anyone with 
bells tied allover your body, but hey, you’re a fool; nooneshouldbeafraidofyouanyway 
(or should they?). One final effective touch is that of the mock scepter or wand. This 
prop can be as simple as a painted wooden dowel rod with ribbons and bells tied around 
the top or as fancy as the jester-headed styles sold in gift shops and at fairs. 
T H E  
C O U R T J E S T E R ,  O R  THE 
EOOL 
O T H E R  O E E I C E R S O E T H E  C O U R T ,  I N C L U D I N G  LORDS 
The ranks of office were all in the jewelry. During the Dark Ages, wealthy 
men often wore as much jewelry as (if not more than) their female counterparts. 
Chains of office were decorations rather like oversized necklaces that draped 
over the shoulders. They could be as simple as a thick, unadorned gold or silver 
chain or as elaborate as linked medallions covered in gemstones. (Think of 
1970s disco belts for an approximate visual.) 
Also, go heavy on the rings. If you can find really heavy bands with large 
“gemstones,” you’ll be on the right track. If you can wear enough of them, even 
class and fraternity rings give you the right look. I have had a lot of luck in the 
C O S T U M I N ~ E O B  
LIVE-ACTION 
PLAY 
@ 


past shopping at antique malls and flea markets for these sorts of props. I have 
also been known to invest in “real” jewelry in this style, but doing so can get 
pricey. It also helps to have stuff that you don’t care about losing. At this time, 
men did not really wear earrings. This accouterment was a fashion that seems to 
have picked up when Europeans came in closer contact with “Eastern” cultures, 
so if you wish to wear them during play, don’t, or keep them small. 
M O N K S  
The costume of the monk has never really changed, much. It consists of a 
long, plain robe with full sleeves and a cowl or hood. Tie the robe at the waist 
with a length of rope that has been knotted at eachend. In addition, these monks 
wore plain leather or rope sandals similar to the Birkenstock brand of today. And 
that’s it, folks. Some might also have carried a wooden cross or rosary beads, but 
nothing more. Unfortunately, there really aren’t any short-cuts or easy visual 
cues here. You really do need the robes. However, if you just can’t come up with 
them, dress very plainly, in loose clothing of all one color. Avoid black in favor 
of gray or brown, or even white or off-white. Then track down a length of rope 
long enough to tie around your waist with the ends hanging down to about knee- 
length. And, if your character is very penitent, you can add a wooden cross to 
wear around your neck or hanging down from the rope belt on a leather thong. 
T H E  WILD 
WEST 
The old days of the American Wild West are stuffed full of stereotypes that 
most of us have been familiar with since we were children. Gunslingers, gamblers, 
old prospectors, saloon girls, dandies and soldiers are just a few of the many cast 
members found in the Wild West. The basic Western man’s outfit consisted of a 
collarless shirt, wool pants or denim jeans (blue only), a belt or suspenders, boots 
and sometimes a vest and a coat or jacket of some sort. The two other common and 
vital elements were a wide-brimmed hat and some sort of kerchief to keep the sun 
off your head and neck. Women were still tightly corseted, and they went about 
in long skirts, fitted jackets and high-necked, long-sleeved blouses. While most 
stock outfits of the time are fairly complex, each normally had one or two 
significant pieces of equipment that define the wearer’s role in society. 
C ~ U N S L I N C ~ B E S  
Lets face it, the most visual cue for a gun-slinger is his (or her, thank you 
Sharon Stone) gun. This cue presents a problem in live-action play, of course, 
because carrying actual firearms or even decent replicas in public is pretty much 
the height of folly. It’s also not the easiest task to find guns of the appropriate 
genre at short notice. My solution is to skip the guns and wear the belts. Wear 
one as a regular belt; wear the other as a gun belt substitute. Make the substitute 
something wide and leather, slung low over one hip(or low on both if you want 
the double-holster effect). Throw a long coat or duster over the whole outfit and 
hide the fact that your guns are missing. Or wear empty holsters and stuff your 
item cards for your pistol(s) into them so that the ends show prominently. Then 
add a bandana (tied bandit style) around your neck. 
C ~ A M  
B L E E S  
These characters wear a look close to that of the gun-fighter, but with a 
touch more style. If you think about the vital visual cues here, four come to the 


forefront: the fancy brocade vest that can be easily acqu 
shop, the bolero style cowboy hat, the string tie and some 
addiction. A deck of cards, pair of dice or a coin the cha 
give instant hints to your character’s walk of life. 
T H E  DANDY, o R CITY- 
SLICKER 
This common character is usually, but not always, the 
fiction. Dandy types are proper little Victorian-era clerks, 
of modern geeks. A quick fix here should include some of 
hat, marking your character as someone either just visitin 
know any better (since seasoned Westerners wore broad-bi 
stronger western sun off their faces and necks); wire-rin 
garters (elastic bands worn just above or below the elbow dllU U S ~ U  LO IWIU WIUK 
suit sleeves out of your work); and finally a pocket-watch, or at least a chain 
dangling from pocket to pocket to give the appearance of a watch. If you don’t 
actually have the watch, don’t worry. A lot of the actual dandies didn’t either! 
THE 
SALOON 
GIRL 
This archetype represents one of the most stereotyped characters of the 
Wild West. Usually presented in the movies as a pretty young thing, or at least 
a still-attractive matron, a real saloon girl was not quite so glamorous. There was 
no standard uniform, other than bright, gaudy colors and as little fabric as could 
be gotten away with in public. This standard produced dresses that had the 
sleeves cut off and the top cut down, and the full, petticoat skirts of the day were 
cut short to show off the legs. Sometimes (in very rough establishments), the 
girls simply wore bloomers, chemises and their corsets. 
But who cares? I’d rather take my cue from the movies, especially since that’s 
what people are most familiar with. So do the following: Wear something tight and 
corset-like on top and ah11 skirt that you can gather up over your knees. Then add 
fishnet hose, with a garter around your exposed knee, and lace-up ankle boots. Pile 
your hair up on your head, then tuck in ostrich plumes (available in most craft 
stores) and tie a length of black satin ribbon around your neck as a choker. Voila! 
After the Civil War (as well as during), many soldiers wanted nothing more 
than to get away fromthe bloodshed and badmemoriesof the eastern United States. 
In so doing, they went west to build new lives for themselves, often with nothing 
more than the clothes on their backs. Those clothes were highly likely to be the 
uniforms they had deserted in. To emulate this look, start with either dark blue or 
darkgray pants (chooseaside), awhiteshirt,suspendersandblackboots (ridingstyle, 
no laces). The uniform jackets are a bit harder to come by, but they aren’t necessary. 
If you can, check out costuming supply stores for the combat uniform caps. 
SOLDIERS 
T H E   REA AT WAR 
The most difficult thing about fast-and-easy dressing for this period is that there 
simply aren’t many stereotypes to copy. The only solid, stable images from this time 
are those from the military services. Civilian men’s clothing was not that markedly 
different from that of the Victorians who came before or the swingers of the ’20s who 
followed after. Women’s fashions, on the other hand, ranged all over. A woman who 
began the war era as a corseted Edwardian (wearing a floor-length dress covered in 


lace, with long, tight sleeves, high collar and a hat the size of a wagon wheel) could 
end it baring her arms and ankles in loose, flowing gowns that left her unrestricted. 
The hair of the “modem” woman changed as well, moving from the long “Psyche” 
knot styles of graceful curls around the face and a loose bun wom at the back of the 
neck to chin length in permanent waves. And that was just at the beginning and the 
end of the time period. In the years between, there was no set style at all. 
MILITARY 
SERVICES 
By far the most prevalent image associated with the Great War is that of 
military service personnel. Many modem uniforms either saw their start with 
this war or even now are at least in the “tradition” of the uniforms introduced 
here. So the following is a short run-down of each American branch‘s uniform 
and some (hopefully) quick steps you can take to dress accordingly. 
Soldiers (or doughboys, as they were called) wore khaki-green uniforms 
that resembled the modem dress uniform of the Royal Canadian Mounted 
Police in a more subdued color scheme. When not in the midst of battle, soldiers 
wore “campaign hats,” rather like a khaki version of a Canadian mounty’s hat. 
During combat, they wore metal helmets that looked rather like an upside-down 
soup bowl with a chin strap. 
Sailors dressed in navy blue bell pants with a matching “middy” shirt that had 
full sleeves and a white collar, square at the back and coming to a point at the front 
of the blouse. In addition, they wore the standard white sailor hat and a solid black 
kerchief tied around the neck. Sailors’ shoes were black, and this costume is 
absolutely the only one with which it might be okay to wear black athletic shoes. 
Pilots were a new breed who flew for both the Army and the Navy, as the 
Air Force did not exist yet. In addition to the well-known brown leather jacket, 
goggles, tight-fitting leather flight helmet and white silk scarf, the uniforms’ 
shirts, ties and pants were tan in color, and the boots were dark brown. A dark 
brown baseball jacket (no logo) would work well as a substitute for the bomber 
jacket. Leather winter hunters caps (with the ear flaps) suffice as flight helmets, 
and some of the sturdier swim goggles on the market will masquerade well as 
flight goggles as long as you keep them on the helmet. 
CIVILIAN 
D R E S S ~ O R  
MEN 
Things to look for: Men sported bowler hats, fedoras and straw “boaters” (think 
barbershop quartets) in the summer. The silk top hat was still in vogue for evening, 
as was the walking stick. Pocket watches were still in use, and they often had small 
“Swiss Army” knives suspended from their chains. Wristwatches had also become 
popular as the war demonstrated their practicality. If you decide to wear one, go for 
the “classic” styles that included utilitarian metal faces on leather straps. 
Men wore gloves for both day and evening. They wore thin kidskin or 
leather during the day and white fabric in the evening. They still carried 
handkerchiefs of colored fabric (or white with a colored border) during the day 
and plain white ones during the evening. Leather wallets and billfolds had 
replaced the earlier pocket change purse. And last, but certainly not least, the 
cigarette made it’s appearance, replacing the pipe and making way for all sorts 
of nifty cigarette carrying-cases made of polished metal or leather. Just make sure 
you realize that it was only the cases that were cool and stylish at the time, not 
the actual cigarettes. (Okay, sermon over.) 


C I V I L I A N  
DRESS 
E O R  WOMEN 
As I believe I mentioned earlier, women’s fashions of this period were all 
over the place. The corset had finally fallen out of fashion in about 1912, helped 
along no doubt by the need to use steel for more military purposes. The 
fashionable silhouette then changed from the “S” curve (bust pushed forward, 
rear pushed backward) to a more relaxed reverse curve with shoulders comfort- 
ably slouched back and the hips forward in a permanent leaning posture. 
Basic rules of dress for the look of this time are as follows: Skirt lengths should 
be about six to eight inches above the ankle for both day and evening wear except 
for the most formal of fashions. The tunic dress became popular at this time, so any 
sort of straight, sleeveless dress should work to emulate this style. Just remember 
that women were glad to be rid of structured clothing, so the fashion moved away 
from anything form-fitting. Fabrics were soft, and they draped easily. The only 
definition of figure on the tunic dresses came from occasional scarves or belts at 
the waist, usually closer to hip level than the true waistline. Many tunicdresses had 
straight skirts and tops that bloused over the belt. 
Pearl jewelry was very much in style as well. You can wear both choker and 
long varieties of pearl or bead necklaces, and pearl and dangling earrings. 
Folding fans and paper parasols are also great accessories. Because the clothing 
became so simple, both jewelry and accessories became more elaborate, and that 
is the visual idea you should follow when costuming yourself for play. 
In conclusion, there are just a couple of things I would like to add to enhance 
playing with props. First, if you have something that you know would be just perfect 
for your character, but you don’t want to lose it, don’t take it to the game. Leave stuff 
that you care about at home where it’s safe and it won’t get lost. Even if you know 
you’re careful with your stuff, sh*t happens, and it’s better to be safe than sorry. 
Second, most of the things that I mentioned in this article can be found at 
the following kinds of stores: craft shops (even Hobby Lobby or A.C. Moore), 
fabric stores (such as So-Fro or Northwest) and, my personal favorites, antique 
malls, flea markets and garage sales. These stores are a goddess-send to any 
costume designer, and I highly recommend going to as many of them as possible. 


WFRFWOLE: THF DARK AGFS 
J 
by David “The Deuce” Kizzia 
ROLEPLAYINC~ 
C~AROU 
I N T H E  DARKAC~ES 
The Dark Ages represent the final hours of glory in the sun before the 
twilight of the oncoming Apocalypse. In the immediate years to come, European 
cities will expand in both population and technological advancement. Hungry 
empires will cross the threshold of the Atlantic Ocean to conquer the indig- 
enous tribes of the Americas, slaughtering thousands of Wendigo Kinfolk. The 
progress of mankind will empower the Wyrm in ways yet undreamed while 
pushing Mother Gaia to the brink of Apocalypse. 
But for now, the Wyrm is relatively hidden and the Black Spiral Dancers gather 
their strengths in secret. The greatest dangers for the werewolf come from the 
expanding human population and eachother. The Church still controls the daily lives 
of all humans, from commoner to nobility. As a result, most humans are generally 
superstitious and suspicious of anything that seems foreign to the status quo. Anything 
from strange travelers from foreign lands to learned studies of medicine and astronomy 
can be branded “the devil’s own” in these highly religious times. 
But the greatest threat to Garou at this time comes from their fellow Garou. 
Although the Litany is enforced, tribes still clash violently over political issues 
large and small. With the exception of the Red Talons, the End Times are a 
distant dream, uncertain at best. For now, the Garou revel in their heroic deeds 
and tales of glory, unaware the true battle lies ahead of them. . . . 
T H E  TRIBES 
At this time, the Garou Nation is firmly led by the Silver Fang Tribe, a fact 
that irritates the Shadow Lords to no end (and will continue to do so well into 
modern day). Most Garou will yield judgment to the Silver Tribe simply for 
expedience and because the Fangs will probably demand it anyway. The Shadow 
Lords wait patiently for any political error or sign of weakness on the part of the 
Silver Fangs in order to unseat them from their traditional role. 
The Fenrir maintain a healthy dislike for the Shadow Lords, feeling their 
scheming ways are a sign ofweakness. There is also bad blood between the Fenrir 
and the Fianna, who blame the Fenrir for much of their kin’s woes. Indeed, the 
Fianna harbor deep-rooted resentment towards the Nordic tribe and would 
prefer nothing better than its demise. 
In the cities, the Warders have begun to build ties with the Bone Gnawer 
tribe, finding a common bond in their mutual preference for human settlements. 
Although the Warders are still mistrusted and the Bone Gnawers reviled, this 
burgeoning friendship will prove more and more useful as time carries on. 
The other tribes revere the Red Talons, although the Talons themselves have 
developed a deeper dislike for the city-bound Warders. Warders smell too much 
like humans in the Talons’ estimation, and very little good can come of that. 
Finally, all of the tribes still harbor lingering suspicions about the nomadic 
Silent Striders, unsure of their wayward travel and lack of permanency in this day. 


BLACK 
EURIES 
fiercely defending the 
Church. Traditionally all fe 
them, but a progressive ( 
cubs to the Children of Gaia 
Backgrounds: No Restri 
Beginning Gifts: He 
Reviled for their scavenger ways, their numbers are found among the poor 
of European society - 
common folks and the outcast dregs. Gnawers manage 
to survive despite the h 
everal tribes deride them 
for the diversity (callin 
iversity that creates their 
fortitude in the adverse 
. Unlike modern times, 
The Furies of the Da 
ild woodlands and long fangs, 
pansion of the Christian 
B O N E  C~NAWERS 
there is no great shame in being a beggar; ina way, the Dark Ages are actually 
pleasant for the Bone Gnawer Kin. 
Backgrounds: Bone Gnawers may not buy Pure Breed or Resources. 
Honey, Trail of the Larder 
THE CHILDRENOP 
~ A I A  
throughout Spain and I 
continent, but their prese 
villages. A few Children can 
however, using their posit 
EENRIB 
These fierce Viking warriors from the 
Beginning Gifts: Razor 
Coming from the British is 
and homelands from foreign usu 
and Kinfolk. Their connection 
memories of their lost brethren, 
Pain, Snow Running 
EIANNA 
wlers. Indeed, the Fianna have a 


R E D  TALONS 
across their homelands. 
whenever possible, they 
Tribe and Gaia as a who 
ull the human herd 
ahead for both their 
hase Allies, Contacts or Resources. 
Backgrounds: Red Tal 
Beginning Gifts: Beast 
SHADOW 
LORDS 
folk as well as their own 
Lords quietly challenge 
Nation, promoting the 
brethren. Known for 
the leadership of the 
SILENT 
STRIDERS 
SILVER 
E A N ~ S  
, they strive to preserve 
a result, they strive to 
er welcomed or not. 
ee Traits on Pure Breed. 
lead their Lupine bre 
eye of the Dark Medieval church. 
Backgrounds: Warders may 
Beginning Gifts: Artisan's C 
Persuasion, Smith's Blessing 


THE 
OTHER 
TRIBES 
S T A R ~ A Z E R S  
pen the path for these 
uropean Garou at this 
an rare) Stargazer into 
numbers makes it difficult for 
they wait in secret in massive 
shadows until it’s to their best 
Fomori: Although fomori d 
overt fashion only rarely. Inst 
attempting to attract as little atte 
h time and human frailty. 
t common sort of Wyrm- 
Although this blight will 
century, they remain a cu 
-although rumors tell of even larger creatures. They resemble a cross between 
a giant grub and a bloated, skinless serpent with large sets of barracuda-like jaws. 
dead, although few truly understand 
11 their “clans.” To the Garou, one 
Striders still hold their greatest 
alled “The Followers of Set,” and 
their path. The Shadow Lords 
ncountered in the Carpathian 
us flesh-rending abilities. More 
the Undead to be their greatest 
threat. Bone Gnawers also hold a particular rivalry with the misshapen squalid 
Undead they have heard referred to as “Nosferatu.” 
Magi: Magicians are mysterious in their ways, even to the werewolves. Although 
a scant few have shown respect to the Garou, most remain aloof and secretive. Like 
werewolves and fae, magi harbor secret places of power and seek out other sources of 
Kindred: Most Gar0 


such mystical strength. It is the rare and foolish magus, however, who overtly attacks 
the Garou. Wizards, warlocks and witches are far more subtle and clever. 
The Fae: Although most of the fae remain on cordial terms with the Garou, 
they hold a particular aversion to the Black Furies, due to the Furies' over-protective 
nature toward the kin on whom the fae play their tricks. While the time of the 
Shattering is close at hand, it is not complete in the 12th Century, so the fae are not 
as weak and desperate as the changelings of the modern world. Fae remain whimsical 
and tricky to deal with, both as useful allies and problematic foes. 
The Church: The power of the Church is both the greatest ally and foe to the 
Garou. The Church controls the Dark Medieval world completely, from its peasants 
to its royalty. High-ranking church officials wield powerful political influence and 
sway, often dictating the policy and edicts in the name of the Church's interests. In 
addition,thefearofGodandetemaldamnationkeeps localvillagesandhamletsunder 
thecontroloftheir localclergy. Strangersandcddbehaviorsareeasilybrandedservants 
of the Infernal in such superstitious times. And yet, because of the reverence and 
subservience given to the Church and its methodology, its beliefs actually help contain 
the influence of the minions of the Wyrm. Active fomori often find themselves facing 
aclergy-ledlocal militia, wieldingthe power offrue Faith. Such"divine" intervention, 
however, can easily be turned upon a band of traveling Garou as well. 
T H E  
WYRM 
THE DELIRIUM 
In these days of superstitious belief, the commoner does not explain supematu- 
ral encounters with the same sort of rationalizations of a modem mind. Monsters do 
indeed exist in the dark, and the Delirium does not make such encounters fade away. 
Instead, their minds react with abject terror or berserk rage, and survivors will have 
a hazy, albeit skewed, retention of the encounter. The descriptions listed inLaws of 
the Hunt remain the same, although with a different percentage rating. 


THE UMBRA 
Although the rules of the spirit world have not changed much from the 
Dark Ages to modem day, the Umbra of the Dark Medieval world is a much 
stronger entity. The spirits of Gaia are more populous and active, and Banes are 
far rarer. In this pre-industrial age, the Weaver has yet to go mad in its creation 
and the Wyrm remains quiet. Thus, the spirits are in full bloom at this time. 
The Gauntlet stands, yet its walls aren’t as thick as they eventually will be. 
Magic and mystery still populate the hidden places of the Earth that retain a 
close bond with the spirit world. Everywhere, from the backend streets of the 
largest European cities to the strongest of caerns, Gauntlet ratings are lowered 
by one, compared to the ranking in modern day. 
T H E  BREEDS 
H O M I D  
Homid-born Garou walk thr 
prying and superstitious e 
a hamlet or village, secrets 
Garou’s safety. Most leave h 
many questions about their c 
METIS 
In these Dark Medieval times, 
ed is usually killed outright as soon 
t than a benefit to the tribe. In 
maturity, she will have the same 
as possible, wisely considered m 
the rare occasion a metis is 
Gifts as the modern d 
unholy mating between 
her as a freak of nature - 
Lupus 
The lupus breed thrives in 
dieval times, as demonstrated by the 
cluding the Warders and the 
on within their tribes. The 
ing a certain modicum of 
numerous Red Talons of the 
Bone Gnawers) benefit from 
lupus are considered “distin 
respect of the Garou Nation. 
CHARACTER 
CREATION 
The Trait mechanics of character creation for a Dark Ages werewolf don’t 
differ significantly from those of a modern-day werewolf. You still assign 
Attribute Traits and Ability Traits as stated on p. 28 of Laws of the Wild from 
the lists that begin on pages 36 and 42 respectively. Obviously, some Abilities 
listed in that book are inappropriate to a Dark Ages chronicle (such as Computer 
or Drive). CheckThe Long night forperiod-specific Abilities and Backgrounds. 


ADDITIONAL 
MERITSAND 
ELAWS 
Church Rank (1-3 Trait Merit): You have become part of ranks of the 
Holy Church - 
although you do not necessarily share its beliefs - thereby 
possessing some of the advantages of rank. You can influence local politics to 
some extent, and locals respect you as a representative of God. One Trait of this 
Merit might mean the character is a summoner or deacon; two would be a monk, 
nun or pardoner; three traits represent a local priest or ranking monk. Higher 
rank (abbess, bishop and so on) should only be allowed with the Storyteller’s 
permission (and at an even higher cost) - 
these ranks carry a greater amount 
of influence and responsibility. Red Talons cannot take this Merit. 
Nobility (1-3 Trait Merit): Due togdbirthing, youpossessanoble’stitleand 
enjoy the advantages thereof. One trait of this Merit translates roughly as a minor 
title with little prestige (like a knight). With two traits, you could be the younger 
child of a ranking noble, and with three you might be a baron. Greater titles should 
only be given to players at Storyteller discretion. In the Dark Medieval world, such 
titles wield great power, but also require an equally great amount ofwork to maintain. 
The Silver Fang Tribe expects its members to be of some sort of noble lineage and 
are often judged within their own tribe by their family’s nobility and their personal 
rank within the land. Red Talons cannot take this Merit. 
Manse (2 traitMerit):Youmayownalargemanor-ahome with25 ormore 
rooms, as well as the surrounding estate. The servants, if you have any, are provided 
for you if you have the Merit, although they cannot be Kinfolk unless additional 
points are spent. Nobility and great tracks of land often go hand in hand. 
Spy Network: ( 2  trait Merit) You begin play with access to a group of 
humans who frequently bring you information. Their information is up-to-date 
and fairly reliable. Many Shadow Lords groom such networks specifically to 
maintain control over their territories. 
Second-Class Citizen ( 2  trait Flaw): The simple happenstance ofbirth has 
made you a second-class citizen in Medieval Europe. This tends to appear in two 
forms. First, you might be female: Mortal men treat you as a natural inferior, and 
many Garou may also discriminate against you. 
Alternately, you might be a member of a disliked or persecuted social group, 
and your appearance, speech or local reputation marks you as a member of this 
group. You are excluded from local politics and are distrusted by most locals. 
Bear in mind, with the exception of the Black Furies, you need not take this 
Flaw. Take this Flaw only if you want to roleplay a Garou at a social disadvan- 
tage. Silver Fangs cannot take this Flaw. 
Dark Prophecy (2 point Flaw): Like the Red Talon tribe, you experience 
visions of the horrors to come in future days when the Wyrm runs rampant across 
Gaia and the Garou are helpless to stop the gradual degeneracy of all humanity. 
Red Talons cannot take this Flaw. 
DARK 
A ~ E S  
GUTS 
Many of theGifts inuseduringthemodemperiodhaveexistedsin~timeoutofmind. 
Therefore,thmeGlftsapplyjustaseasilytoaDarkAgeschronicle.Tnechangmgtim~d 
see most of these Gifts replaced or adapted. Most modem Gifts (excludmg ones that affect 
or rely on modem technology) in Laws of the Wild are available to Dark Ages Garou. 


B R E E D  
C ~ I E T S  
Lupus 
Basic 
Sense Prey: This Gift allows the Garou the ability find prey for feeding purposes 
after the player wins or ties a Static Mental Test against five Traits. This Glft can only 
be used in the forest setting, and humans are not considered “prey” for feeding purposes. 
The Gifts available to this cursed and scorned breed are no different than 
METIS 
those available to modern-day metis Garou. 
HOMID 
Intermediate 
Speech of the World This slft allows the Garou to speak any human language she 
encounters, albeit with a slight accent, as long as the player spends one Mental Trait. 
AUSPICE 
C ~ I E T S  
Since the responsibilities of the auspices have not undergone significant change, 
the Gifts allotted to the auspices have not done so either. The Theurge and Philcdox 
Gifts, for example, are entirely the same now as they were during the Dark Ages. 
RAGABASH 
Basic 
Snow Running: Heavy snow can immobilize an entire village or even stop 
a traveling wolf pack. With this Gift, a Garou may run across ice or snow as if 
it were solid ground, neither sinking nor leaving tracks. The player must spend 
one Gnosis Trait in order to activate this Gift. 
Intermediate 
Reynard’s Lie: With this gift, even the greatest of the Ragabash’s blatant 
lies will believed (at least for a while). The Ragabash’s player must beat the 
listener in a Mental Challenge after telling a lie. If the speaker does so, the 
listener will believe the lie he just heard, no matter how predisposed he might 
have been to distrust the speaker beforehand. 
SALLIARD 
Advanced 
Call for Vengeance: Rather than the modem Gift: Head Games, Dark Ages 
Garou learn this Gift. When a traitor to Gaia is to be punished, the Galliard howls this 
call to all Garou who’ll listen. The player spends a Rage Trait and a Willpower Trait, 
then engages the traitor in a Social Challenge. If the traitor loses the test, he cannot 
spend Willpower Traits for the rest of the session (or the next week ofgame time), and 
he is one Trait down in all Social Challenges. Loyal The call does not compel loyal 
Garou who hear it to hunt down the traitor, but the invitation to do so is plain. 
AHROUN 
Intermediate 
Gift of the Salamander: Since silver is not as ubiquitous a threat as it is 
today, the Ahroun auspice has not yet developed the Gift: Sense Silver. Instead, 
Many Ahroun Garou learn this Gift. With it, an Ahroun becomes virtually 


impervious to flame. After the player spends a Rage Trait, the invulnerability 
lasts the duration of the scene. Withstanding extremely intense flames (such as 
having a burning building collapse on a character) may require the expenditure 
of further Traits, at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
TRIBE 
GIFTS 
BLACK FURIES 
Man’s Skin: The 
tional” stereotypes for the 
an onlooker to pierce the illu 
Intermediate 
ctivate thisGift. When 
barrel, heal one health 
Advanced 
Arrow of Artemis: In 
When the arrow itself hits, it does five extra levels of aggravated damage. 
B O N E  C ~ N A W E R S  
Basic 
this Gift allows the Gnaw 


--
Gift. This Gift will not destroy an entire suit of armor all at once, but spending 
extra Gnosis Traits increases its immediate range of effect. 
C H I L D R E N  O f  GAIA 
Grandmother’s T 
allows the Garou to he 
invoking the terror of D 
user appears as 
to Mother’s Touch, this Gift 
ct incrinosform without 
nds aGnosis Trait, the 
beliefs rather than a 
see an angel, and a 
rium chart in Laws of 
arns this Gift, she will 
comes a berserk frenzy 
atic Rage Test to resist 
Howl of the Bans 
hearts of even the most 
the characterhowls,unym w 
Willpower Challenge. Those w 


Warp Spasm: The character using this Gift works himself into a berserk 
frenzy that is even more dangerous than normal. When the player spends a Rage 
Trait, his character enters a berserk frenzy and generates an intense heat. 
Flammable objects the character touches burst instantly into flame, metal 
objects touching the character melt, and the character’s attacksdo an additional 
level of aggravated (fire) damage. 
R E D  TALONS 
Basic 
creates a convincing sound that would 
territory. Examples of such sounds i 
or the sounds of game animals. 
lure a human out into its 
Intermediate 
werewolf cannot i 
of those animals, but the effect is instantly 
xpands the area affected by the howl. 
for the rest of the s 
no effect and the 


completely for a turn. The werewolf may use this power against a particular 
target only once per scene. 
SILVER 
E A N ~ S  
Basic 
additional Mental 
and they must flee in terror if they lose the Willpower Challenge. 
WARDERS 
Basic 
Artisan’s Command: Similar in nature to the modem Gift Control Simple 
e mechanical and manmade 
llpower Trait to use this Gift, 
Machine, this Gift allows the 
devices as he sees fit. The play 
no more than human. The 
nst the animal, and the Gift’s 
World does, but it grants 
Weaponmaster: Learning this Gift grants a Warder (even one of the lupus 
breed) the ability to use any weapon developed by humans, excluding firearms. 
The player receives an additional Trait in all challenges to use the weapon and 
ignores the weapon’s negative Traits. 


ON THF SIDF OF THF ANCjFLS 
by Peter Woodworth 
It’s time again for an illustrative piece of MET-inspired fiction. This piece 
comesinfromPeter Woodworth, who’s madeammefor himselfwritingMind’s 
Eye TheatrematerialsuchasTheShiningHost andLawsoftheEast. Now, 
Pete shows that he can write fiction as well as gamespeak, with this tale about the 
difference between idealism and activism in the World of Darkness. 
No one else cared. That was what really bothered him. 
No one cared, God damn it! 
Michael flowed gracefully out of the muddy ocean of people washing down 
the dirty avenue and into the dark, swirling tidal pool of the alley. Only one other 
person seemed to visibly notice, and that one only gave him a look of complete 
incredulity. Seduced by the lullaby whispers of their television screens, most 
people didn’t believe such places still exist - 
if they ever did. They thought that 
back-alley crimes existed only in film noir and clich6 television scripts. 
Bullshit. 
Michael’s trained eyes adjusted to the gloom as easily as another person would to 
turning on the lights in a room, bringing the familiar scene into its full, pitiful clarity. 
Three actors this time: a gangly reed of a boy lurking inside his battered leather and 
borrowed pride, an obviously dope-sick girl standing two paces behind him and a 
cringing mess of bloody denim Michael took to be male from the sound of the cries. 
The girl was holding a shaking knife as her boy gave their victim a vicious kick to the 
ribs, not seeming to notice even as Michael increased his pace to intervene. That was 
another comfortable fiction of popular culture. People assume that girlfriends of even 
the worst sorts of scum would always hang back from an attack, pulling on their 
boyfnend’s arm and saying stupid things like, “We got the money, Brett, just let him 
go,” or “Stop it, Slash, you don’t need to hurt him that badly.” 
Nor was their victim the usual poor-but-noble old lady or hapless wide-eyed 
tourist. By the look of him, he knew the intimate thrill of the needle better than 
his attackers. His skin stretched like lifeless white parchment pockmarked with 
fresh bruises and old needle tracks like a masochist’s map. That was exactly why 
it was so easy for everyone else to ignore them, really. They were no one anyone 
would miss, doing things no one approved of, and if they fought and killed each 
other doing it, so what? Best instead to just keep your feet moving, keep your 
head down, cross your fingers and pray to God that when your time came, you 
wouldn’t be the one everyone else pretended not to have heard. 
But Michael always heard. 
When he finally reached the scene, he didn’t try to stop and reason with 
anyone. One of the first things he’d learned when he’d joined the Guardian 
Angels was that if the perpetrators were this far gone, pat little speeches and 
platitudes were less than useless. No, this was a different sort of intervention. 
In his more darkly introspective moments, Michael liked to think that this 
action was the last resort of civilization. It was a demonstration that lawlessness 
c 
M I N D ’ S  EYE T H E A T R E  JOURNAL 
@ 


simply will not be permitted; the punishment for violation would be swift and 
overt. So when the boy finally noticed him and turned with fists raised, Michael 
simply took one step forward, grabbed the kid’s wrist and performed a deft magic 
trick with it. One second the boy was on his feet and yelling, and the next he was 
lying on his back clutching his fractured forearm. 
Ignoring the boy’s surprised wailing, Michaelusedone hand to toss aside the 
girl’s dirty knife, and he sent the other solidly into her solar plexus. She went 
down with a thin cough, gasping for air. Sparing a speculative glance at her 
howling boyfriend, Michael knelt by her side. Taking her chin in his hands, 
Michael burned his gaze deep into her eyes, willing her to see the righteous fury 
and absolute disgust she inspired in him. It had an immediate effect. Her eyes 
widened, first in shock, then in absolute, naked terror. 
“DO you have any drugs?” he demanded. “Money?” 
The girl nodded. Michael held out his hand, and she put a small bag of coke 
(just residue really) and a pair of crumpled twenties in it. Michael tore the money 
in half with a practiced twist and ground the baggie to pieces beneath his boot. 
“Him?“ She shook her head violently. He couldn’t tell if she was lying or not, but 
he wagered she wouldn’t risk it in her condition. He’d made his pint now anyway. 
“Leave,” Michael said, his voice as calm and measured as the morning news 
anchor reading the weather report. “If either of you ever comes back to this 
neighborhood, I’ll know, and this pain will be a skinned knee compared to what 
you’ll feel. Understand me? I’ll be wuiting.” The girl nodded with tears running 
down her cheeks. “Now go.” 
She stumbled crazily to her feet, paused just long enough to haul her boy up 
where she could shoulder his weight. The two of them limped out of the alley 
and away into the night, hopefully never to return. Michael listened to the 
sounds of them fading, then headed over to their victim. The boy was younger 
than he’d thought at first and had been plenty sick on something before they’d 
gotten to him. He barely seemed to register anything at all, even as Michael 
called for the ambulance on his cell phone. 
‘Ws okay, buddy,” he said gently. The rage he’d felt a moment before evaporated, 
revealing nothing but caring concern beneath. “Help is on the way, I promise.” 
The boy turned to look at him as Michael leaned down. His left eye -the one 
that wasn’t swollen shut - 
was glazed, but it still tried to cling to lucidity. Michael 
saw real and immediate fear growing there. The kid whimpered like a rabbit, and his 
purple, dislocated jaw kept trying to move. He clutched Michael’s arm with thin 
fingers, his lips moving ever so slightly, rasping words that were not quite sound. 
“Don’t let them take me.” 
W s  all right, friend,” Michael assured him between the directions he gave 
The kid shook his head, fighting to keep his eyes open. “They’re watching.” 
“You’re going to be fine,” Michael said again, hanging up on the operator. 
“Those two won’t be back to bother you any more.” 
Without responding, the boy relaxed against the wet concrete and closed 
his eye. Unconsciousness had finally taken him. Just for safety’s sake, Michael 
kept looking around for the attackers’ return until the ambulance arrived. 
the emergency operator on the phone. “They’re gone now.” 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
O N  T H E  SIDE of T H E  ANGELS 
e 


“You’re late,” Marsilio chided him half an hour later. 
Michael looked away, embarrassed. “Sorry. Something came up that I had 
to take care of.” He bowed his head, and shame burned him. 
To his relief, Marsilio waved the matter away. “NO matter, Michael, no 
matter. I was just discussing some ventures with an associate anyway.” 
Michael couldn’t suppress a quick frown at that. He had seen Nigel - 
the wiry 
Englishman who had started keeping the company books a little over two weeks ago 
- 
leaving as he was coming in, and he had gotten the same false smile and dead eyes 
from Nigel that he always did. Of course a man in Nigel’s position had every right 
to be in conference with Marsilio whenever the latter so chose, but something about 
Nigel’s look unsettled Michael just the same. Jealousy, maybe? Somehow, Michael 
didn’t doubt it, but he’d also never had much time for those games before. 
Personal politics always irritated him. He’d originally joined the Guardian 
Angels because they offered a chance to make a real, concrete difference in people’s 
lives instead of simply adding to the corrupt web of red tape that neatly entangled 
and eviscerated the so-called “social initiatives” that the city council was always 
pushing. The trick was using one’s fists effectively and not adding to the violence. 
Having learned to do so, Michael’s skill and tolerance for social maneuvering had 
driedup, leaving him edgy and tense whenever he suspected that it was at work. Now 
that he worked for Marsilio, however, petty politicking had become a necessary skill. 
Everyone in the organization wanted the boss’ ear or a piece of his time. 
“Is something upsetting you?” Marsilio asked, looking at him closely. 
“There is, sir.” Michael licked his lips. He felt like he was doing something 
dirty, but he couldn’t ignore what was building up in the back of his mind any 
longer. “A problem.” 
One fine eyebrow went up. “Oh? And what might that be?” 
“The real reason I was - 
that is, I’ve been - 
I mean-” 
Michael shifted 
nervously from foot to foot under the weight of Marsilio’s gaze, took a deep 
breath, and pulled his focus back together. “I’ve heard some rumors lately, sir. 
I was checking into them when I was delayed.” 
Marsilio leaned forward with a concerned frown on his face. “‘Checking into 
them’? What does that mean? What kind of things are you talking about, Michael?“ 
It took all of his will, but Michael didn’t break eye contact. “I’ve started 
hearing word on the street, sir, that says this company isn’t just running renovation 
efforts anymore.” Marsilio looked at him blankly, waiting. His tongue grew 
sluggish, unwilling to pronounce the words he was compelling it to say. 
“Sir, what I’m saying is that I’ve heard there are all sorts of things going on: 
extortion, loawsharking, prostitution, bribery.” He shook his head. “I’ve even 
heard that some kind of cult has started kidnapping people off our streets!” His 
tone became even more sincere, pleading for acceptance. “Growing up in the 
city, I learned something about rumors, sir. Hear something once, ignore it. Hear 
it twice, remember it. Hear it three times.. .?” 
“Is this laundry list supposed to be an accusation of some kind?” Marsilio’s 
tone was measured, but menace simmered beneath its surface, barely restrained. 
Michael flinched away from the force of the emotion. 
“Not against you specifically, sir,” Michael said quickly, horrified that he 
might have implied as much. “But it’s just that there have been a lot of new faces 
MIND’S EYE THEATRE 
JOURNAL 


in the building lately, and I’m not sure if, well, maybe all of them have been 
checked out as thoroughly as they should have been.” 
That wasn’t nearly as strong as he’d wanted to make it. Michael had strongly 
suspected some of the new employees were up to no good from the first moment he saw 
them. It was the most forceful charge he could manage under that burning stare, however. 
Marsilio held his gaze a moment longer, then sighed and leaned back in his 
chair. “Michael, do you suppose you are the sole reason that this neighborhood 
has gone from one of New York‘s worst to one of its fastest-growing enterprise 
zones in the year my company has been here?” 
Humiliation touched his cheeks. “No, sir, but-” 
Marsilio held up a hand. “Please. I didn’t mean to insult you.” A wry smile 
twitched at the comers of his mouth. “You’re my most trusted lieutenant, Michael, 
and I hope you know that. Without your expert assistance and the aid of your other 
Guardian Angel friends, I never would have known where to start in a place like this 
neighborhood used to be, let alone been able to purge it of the filth that infested it.” 
Even as Michael’s heart swelled with pride, however, Marsilio’s smile fell 
away. “But as my representative to the community, your presence is required 
there most of the time. Where does that leave me?Or the times when I need help 
with something more esoteric, like a federal tax form?” Marsilio shrugged. “DO 
you see where this is leading, Michael? We’re agrowing company. I need to bring 
in new people to make it work.” The smile returned. “I always need new people.” 
That just about sealed thediscussion, but part o fMichael’s mindstillwouldn’t relent. 
“Yes, sir, I understand, but there haw been a lot of new projects, and as far as I can see, 
not all of them seem to be in line with what the company goals have been in the past.“ 
He paused, realizing his hands were shaking. “For instance, why did the company 
buy the Jackson Apartments? I thought we were just supposed to renovate them.” 
To Michael’s surprise, Marsilio actually laughed. “Well, you didn’t think we’d 
just keep putting up new storefronts and locking up hoodlums forever, did you?The 
city’sdone that for ages, andlookat how little progress has beenmade! No, my friend, 
that’s just the beginning. Ifwe’re going to make adifference here, we’regoing to have 
to start investing in other areas.” He gestured to the door. ‘That’s why Nigel was just 
here, in fact. We were discussing diversifytng our assets, getting more involved in 
day-to-day life instead of just putting up buildings for people to fill.” 
He rubbed his chin thoughtfully. “Still, perhaps I should’ve been more 
cautious in hiring. I’ll tell you what, I’ll personally do a review of all our 
employees and their current projects, and if anything comes up suspicious, I’ll 
let you know and we can work out a solution. Does that sound good?” Michael 
nodded slowly, and Marsilio gave him a radiantly apologetic smile. “I’m sorry if 
I haven’t kept you as updated as I should have.” 
“No, really, sir, don’t worry about it,” Michael said, hanging his head. What 
was he thinking, bringing this up without all the facts? “I just wanted to make 
sure things weren’t being overlooked, that’s all.” 
“Don’t worry about it. It’s that kind of dedication I selected you for, Michael.” 
With the matter apparently concluded, Marsilio rose and went to the window, 
which overlooked one of the many restoration projects the company sponsored in 
the neighborhood. He clasped his hands behind his back like a lecturing professor, 
rubbing the impressive gold ring on his right hand idly. The ring was the only display 
O N  T H E  S I D E  O f  T H E  ANGELS 
@ 


of anything approaching ostentation that Marsilio ever allowed himself. “I have 
some business I want you to attend to, Michael. Very important business.” 
Michael drew himself up straighter. “What is it?” 
“Rumors have arisen of another gang trying to move into this neighborhood. 
They call themselves the ‘Midnight Killaz,’ or some such nonsense, and they have 
made it clear that they wish to begin pushing poison in this territory.” A hint of 
anger crept into Marsilio’s voice, and Michael took a step back. That was more 
emotion than nearly anything ever evoked in his reserved superior, and the 
thought of Marsilio’s full fury shook him with fright. “Perhaps they assume that the 
neighborhood is free for them to claim since we disposed of the last bunch.” His 
eyes, hard before, took on the cold sheen of gun barrels as he looked across his desk 
at his favorite lieutenant. “Prove them wrong, Michael. Before this happens 
again.” Long fingers pushed a newspaper clipping across the table. 
Michael didn’t need to see what it was. Two nights ago, a poor couple and their 
three young children had been found shot to death, apparently for complaining to 
the police about men who were dealing out of the apartment down the hall. Michael 
had known the couple himself; they had been early supporters when Marsilio began 
the plan to revitalize the neighborhood and drive out the criminal element it 
contained. New York at large had relegated the killing to the isn’t-that-horrible 
world of page three in the press, quick to chalk it up to the daily horrors of the 
notorious South Bronx. Michael himself had even believed it to be a random act of 
violence, brutal and deserving of the full extent of the justice they could muster, but 
essentially an isolated, senseless, horrible and still all-too-common incident. 
But this news changed everything. 
“I’ll take care of it, sir,” he said. “Don’t worry.” 
He felt the familiar righteous fury building within, tempered by the 
knowledge that now he knew where to direct it. A plan of action began forming 
as he contemplated the different tactics he’d have to use. This many enemies 
might call for some outside help, but he knew where to get that, too. He found 
himself gazing at the tiny golden cobra that adorned Marsilio’s finger and 
thinking that was exactly the right symbol for their operation: fast, decisive and 
very, very deadly. “They don’t have long now.” 
Marsilio smiled at him, and Michael’s spirit soared with pride. “Very good. 
Take these with you, then, and give them to your allies before the battle. It will 
help fortify them for the rigors of combat, as it does for you.” 
Marsilio extended a hand, revealing a number of small vials filled with dark 
red liquid, and Michael felt the craving within him leap even as he pocketed 
them. Marsilio hitched off his suit jacket languidly and rolled up the sleeve of 
his silk shirt. He then pierced his wrist with the stylized fangs on his ring and 
offered the crimson wound to Michael as casually as a mortal might offer a tray 
of hors d’oeuvres at a party. “Of course, you must be thirsty as well.” 
He hadn’t even finished before Michael fell upon his wrist, drinking deeply 
of the blood he had missed and wondering how he had gone so long without it. 
Something within Michael wanted to hesitate, wondering at the justice of 
giving his friends such a gift without their knowledge, but such concerns were 
insignificant next to his need for the blood. He’d do whatever Marsilio wanted, 
as long as he could keep coming back like this. 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
MIND’S 
BYE THEATRE 
JOURNAL 
@ 


Three days passed, but not idly. 
“It’s a dangerous mission, no doubt about it,” Michael concluded, stretching a 
bit. The entire briefing and planning had taken well over two hours, and he felt like 
he imagined a sergeant must feel before asking his men to overtake an intimidating 
enemy position. “I know just about everyone here, and I know that together we’ve 
all seen some rough places before, but everybody has a breaking point, and I respect 
that. Recon work is one thing, but this is a lot rougher. If anyone wants out now, feel 
free to go. There’s no shame in knowing when the water’s gotten too hot for you.” 
He looked out at the assembled Guardian Angels, but none of them quite 
met hisgaze. In fact, they haddone very littleduring the presentationofthe plan, 
except to murmur a few questions here and there. Michael frowned; solemnity 
was fine in the face of danger, but this reticence wasn’t like them. Had he 
embarrassed them when he offered them an out? 
“Well? Anyone?” 
Nobody budged. 
“C‘mon, guys, talk to me.” He tried to make his words friendly, and a few pairs 
of eyes swiveled his way, but none of them held his own for more than a second. 
Michael felt his temper rising, and he clenched his fists at his side. “Nobody?” 
This was crazy. Sure, he hadn’t been around as often since taking Marsilio’s 
job offer, but he couldn’t imagine a response like this. “OK! If no one here is 
willing to commit to finishing this, then I guess I’ll just have to go to the 
company and ask them for help. How about that?” 
Afewheadsjerkedupinresponse, wide-eyed,andhecouldfeelthereferencesizzle 
through the rmm like electricity. There was another moment of shuffling silence at 
that, but this time all the eyes returned to him. At last, Pat - 
who’d been Michael‘s 
friend since they joined the Angels together - 
stood up. All eyes turned his way. 
“If it’s that important,” Pat said, not holding eye contact with Michael for 
more than a second, “we’re in. Right?” He looked at the other Angels one by one, 
and they all gave Pat the grudging assent they had been withholdingfromMichae1. 
“Well, thank you, guys,”Michael said, glad that everyone seemed to be back 
in his camp. He checked his watch. “OK! We’ll plan on arriving at just before 
one and getting out of there by quarter after one at the latest. Sound good?” 
Everyone nodded, if not overly eagerly. 
“Now, how about a little hot toast before we go out into the cold night, eh?” 
His own loud laugh drowned out the desultory response from the others, but 
Michael wouldn’t have cared either way. This phase was too critical to allow a 
lukewarm reaction to spook him. He produced and passed around the prepara- 
tory nip of hot cider he’d brought along. 
As they drank, Michael found himself on the verge of mentioning something 
about the toast being really “special” - 
considering what he’d spiked the cider with 
-but he caught the thought before it could escape his lips. He knew what Marsilio 
would think of him revealing his nature to others, and his cheeks colored in shame 
at how he nearly let Marsilio down yet again. A part of him distantly felt bad about 
not telling these men about what he was doing to them, but that part fell silent soon 
enough. After all, he thought, this was war of a kind, and that meant he was morally 
obligated to do anything necessary for his soldiers to stay alive. And to win. 
Even if they didn’t know exactly what kind of aid he was offering. 
O N  T H E  S I D E  O I  T H E  A N ~ E L S  


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
As a rule, the Guardian Angels never carry weapons. That decision was as much 
a point of pride as it was practical, really. Walking through a rough neighborhood with 
a weapon on your belt not only begs any number ofproblems with police, possibly being 
mistaken for a criminal yourself, but it also makes you an immediate lethal threat to 
any criminals you come across. A gun’s a gun, after all, and not many criminals have 
a problem drawing on someone who’s also strapped. But walk through unarmed, and 
not only are you daring them to pull their weapon on an unarmed opponent, you’re 
also makiig a statement about how committed you are to what you’re doing. 
Keeping that factor in mind, Michael and Pat had spent that much extra time 
planning, making sure the Angels would have the advantage of surprise long 
enough to get to close quarters with the gang members as fast as possible. At that 
range, the chances of any of the Angels suffering serious injury were as low as they 
were going to get. Operating unarmed is one thing, but going into danger 
defenseless is something else entirely. Fortunately, like a lot of young, overconfi- 
dent toughs, the building the Midnight Killaz had picked to occupy was a poorly 
defensible structure. A quick recon of the area showed that not only had they left 
a back entrance poorly guarded by one slack and restless sentry, but the rest of them 
were either thoroughly stoned or well on their way there by one o’clock. 
Only one complication arose. Two of the gang members weren’t there - 
probably out checking on dealers or the like - 
but the Angels would simply have 
to let that slide. Two Angels out of the 10 stayed out front as lookouts and drivers, 
and the entire force was equipped with walkie-talkies for constant communica- 
tion. Michael further divided the group into two teams, each responsible for a 
floor, and he outlined their plan of attack in blocks as small as 10 or 20 seconds 
each, making the plan as precise and airtight as possible. Time frame for the whole 
operation: ten minutes maximum, then they were gone, just in case any unex- 
pected company decided to drop in or anything else went wrong. They went over 
it enough that when the plan actually went into effect, it was almost routine. 
The true irony of a well-planned combat situation is that there’s usually not much 
to see. In fact, if a plan goes really well, chances are that nobody else around will know 
exactlywhat’shapeneduntilmuch, 
much later. In thiscase, it wasover ineghtminutes, 
thuty-four seconds, including the time spent gemng to and from the two old vans the 
Angels had borrowed for transportation. Even the bnef “chat” Michael had with the 
assembled Killaz - 
once they had been properly sutxlued, of course - 
ended swiftly. 
It had gone off almat entirely without a hitch; one gang member, apparently less 
stoned than his friends, had actually managed to pull his pistol out and disengage the 
safety before Michael got to him and wrestled him to the ground. The punk wound up 
eamingashattmedwrist, adislocatedkneeandamouthfuloflcae teethforhisalemess. 
Other than that one flash of danger, however, the entire experience was simply 
a rush of reeking rooms, moldy hallways, yelling gang members, shrieking gang 
girlfnends and a flurry of confiscation and destruction of drugs and drug money. The 
other Angels kept a scowling guard as Michael summoned every shred of anger and 
outrage he had and turned it loose on the kneeling Killaz. Marsilio had taught him 
how to add a supernatural degree of intimidation to his words if he concentrated, and 
he used it to full effect that night. The weeping, terrified young men confessed 
everything and swore on their own souls that they would let the Angels turn their 
guilty members in to the police while the others left the neighborhood for good. 
M I N D ’ S  E Y E  T H E A T n E  JOURNAL 


After some judicious extra punches and kicks - 
not too much but enough to drive 
the point home - 
the Angels were gone back into the night, escorting two broken 
men and leaving behind a crowd of staggering, weeping criminals. 
All in all, agood night’s work, Michael thought as he left the two Killaz with 
the police. Justice had been served, and he was as certain as he was sitting there 
that they’d never see any of those kids again- and quite probably no other gangs 
like them, either. As dawn crept up and Michael retreated to his apartment to 
sleep, the vivid afterglow of victory kept from his mind the dark, nagging 
thoughts of what he had done to his friends, and he thought nothing of it. 
After all, a win’s a win, right? 
Afew nightslater, Michael tookanunscheduledpatrol, just walking and reveling 
in the feeling of freedom that always accompanied defeating another menace to the 
sanctity of the neighborhood. He was in such a good mood that he didn’t even notice 
the strange emptines of the streets. An old reflex simply chalked it up to the perpetual 
hostility most residents displayed as a natural defense mechanism. It was such an 
ingrained instinct, in fact, that he never even questioned why they would still have 
such an outlook when he had been helping make their neighborhood safe all this time. 
Old habits born from self-preservation died hard, and Michael didn’t begrudge the 
neighborhood people any of them. He actually whistled a little as he walked. 
Even when the first lookout bolted at the sight of him, he didn’t think too much 
of it. He simply focused his thoughts and followed the kid’s footsteps down a pair of 
alleys and side streets. The boy was obviously a green recruit; experienced lookouts 
didn’t budge from their posts until absolutely certain they had been made. And most 
relayed their messages by walkie talkie thesedays insteadofbywordofmouth. So when 
the boy ducked through a network of rotting boards into a decaying brownstone, 
Michael didn’t hesitate to follow, convinced he’d ruin the night of agroup of huddled 
pipeheads or, at most, a small-time dealer. He did notice that he passed the faded sign 
announcing he was welcome to the Jackson Apartment building - 
“soon to be re- 
opened by the friendly community builders at New Horizon Enterprises” - 
but that 
factjustmadehimmoredeterminedandlescautious.Someverminhadactual1ymade 
a nest in the very building Marsilio had just bought for renovations. Michael moved 
forward, determined to teach them the error of their ways. 
e 
e 
e 
e 
e 
Which is precisely how he ran into something most unexpected. 
He had scarcely taken two steps into the darkness of the building when he 
came across a thick, moldering maroon curtain, which someone had apparently 
drawn across the hallway in an attempt to block out the chill. Brushing it aside, 
Michael managed only a handhlofadditional stepsbeforecoming to a thunderstruck 
halt. His fists, raised high and ready, wavered, faltered and finally fell to his sides. 
There were renovations going on inside this building all right, but not any 
Michael suspected would be on any construction invoice. The downstairs 
dividing walls had been ripped away to create one large common room that was 
now alight with dozens of tiny red candles. The candles cast shadows in a shifting 
phantasmagoria around the room, and a black altar stood at the far end, flanked 
by two tall poles stylized to resemble giant, golden serpents. 
Dozens ofpeople knelt in rows before the altar, dressed in simple white robes 
intermittently streaked with red. The smell ofblood hit him so strongly he nearly 
staggered. As he entered, the people turned to face him, and Michael saw the 
~~ 
ON T H E  SIDE O P  T H E  ANGELS 


familiar faces of a score of neighborhood families and business owners gazing 
back at him. Even the junkie boy he had saved from muggers less than a week 
ago peered at him with bored anticipation. Their faces were blankly curious, like 
children teasing animals at the zoo. 
Other people were arrayed around the kneeling crowd, seemingly watching 
them. These individuals wore sickly green robes with gold trim, and each had a 
hood drawn down to hide his face. It was behind one of these latter types that 
the lookout was cowering. The figure advanced on him slowly, and his nearness 
finally roused Michael from his stunned fugue. 
“What the hell is going on?” he yelled, raising his arms defensively but 
feeling his words fall oddly flat even as he let them fly. “What do you think you’re 
doing to these people?” 
The figure before him said nothing in response. He only raised his hands and 
let his hood fall limply back. Michael felt his reaction like a punch to the gut; 
Pat’s face stared expressionlessly at him, still touched by the signs of life but pale 
as a dying junkie’s and utterly calm. A spot of fresh blood lay on the comer of 
his mouth, and he licked his lips, obviously savoring the taste. When the others 
removed their hoods as well, Michael saw the faces of his former Angel 
comrades. They surrounded him like a damned Greek chorus. 
“How?” was all he could manage, looking at the familiar faces and wonder- 
ing whether this nightmare would dissolve into wakefulness soon. 
“This neighborhood needed a new beginning,” another voice said. It came from 
across the room, from yet another hooded figure perched behind the altar like some 
demented caricature of a televangelist. The room’s - 
the mpk’s - 
acoustics 
distorted the voice into an oddly echoing bass that Michael had never heard before. 
“These people were going nowhere. They live in decaying buildings, 
destroying themselves with drink and drugs, allowing gangs to rule them like 
feudal lords. It was time for a change, and thanks to the tireless efforts of you and 
your friends, they finally got one.” Silence reigned for just a fraction of asecond, 
but in that time, Michael could swear he felt the darkness smile. 
“NOW their streets are cleared of scum and crime, their buildings are being 
renovated, andtheirbodiesgrowstrongon 
the offerings Igive them. Only the most 
foolhardy would dare to intrude on this territory after your.. . examples. We’re free 
to move to the next step of the process.” The figure gestured broadly at the roomful 
of huddled supplicants, revealing slowly bleeding wounds in his palms as he did so. 
At the sight of the blood, the crowd moaned with longing, and even the other 
robed figures appeared entranced. “This is just the next phase in their evolution; 
a new spirituality, to replace the one that failed them so miserably before. It’s not 
so much to ask after all that we’ve done for them, don’t you think?” 
Michael stood still, unable to think, let alone respond. 
“So come join us, Michael. You’re due for a promotion, if anything, and 
you’ve been such a help so far, it would be a shame to have to release you now.” 
The figure gestured, and Michael felt the tug in his blood drawing him near. One 
last pause, one that set his teeth on edge, ready to loose a scream. “No secrets 
anymore, right, Michael?” But Michael didn’t look as the figure pulled back his 
hood. Michael didn’t need to see the figure behind the altar to know who it was. 
He had already recognized the ring on his finger. 
t 
i 
MIND’S Erg THFATBF 
JOUBNAL 


O T H F R  CHILDRFN Of! THF 
FASTFRN N I G H T  
J 
by Peter Woodworth 
Given the fulfillment of our wishes, we’d cram every ounce ofinformation 
we could into each book White Wolfpublishes . However, conservation ofspace 
(and trees) often forb& us from doing so. With the advent of the Journal, 
however, we can - 
as the back cover proclaims - 
pick up where our other 
books leave off. In this article, we take a look at some of the m e  
unusual shen 
who didn’t make it into Laws of the East. 
D H A M P Y R S  
C H I L D R E N O Z T H I  LIVINC~ 
DEATH 
While such an event is rare, the union of a Kuei-jin and a mortal sometimes 
prcduces a child. Born of work both living and dead, these beings grow up with a 
measure of the blessings Heaven has conferred upon their vampiric parent.. . as well 
as a touch of the curse. Known as dhampyrs, these creatures typically grow up in a 
shadowy worldbetween theeveryday ltfeof their mortalparent andthesavage splendor 
of the courts of the Kuei-jin, fully accepted by neither. Their long life spans, touch of 
supernatural power and residual evil of the P’o withii set them apart from ordinary 
mortals from a relatively early age. And yet, the Kuei-jin view them as vastly lesser 
beings and seldom take notice of them except to exploit their daylight capabilities. 
Furthermore, when one or more parents isn’t available during the daytime 
and has a good chance of tearing apart a friend or playmate from time to time, 
dhampyrs tend to grow up in a bizarre environment simultaneously filled with 
intense fear and overpowering love. Such a polarized upbringing is hard on 
dhampyrs, and many of them only become more bitter as time goes on. They 
watch their mortal friends age and die before their eyes, and they turn away from 
all emotions in hopes of finding some means of stemming the pain of the loss. 
Most dhampyrs do not wish to take part in the games of the Kuei-jin, but after 
they witness the dissolution of everything mortal they once knew, they take 
their place in the courts. They realize that the immortal plots of the vampires are 
the only constant they can ever expect to last. 
For their part, the Kuei-j in often employ capable dhampyrs as servants, spies 
and even assassins. (A killer who walks the day has a real advantage over 
vampires!) They even grant some dhampyrs the title of heimin both as 
recognition for their service and a means of calling on them for aid. Like their 
counterparts in the West, the ghouls and revenants, dhampyrs often exist in the 
shadow of their more powerful relatives. Yet, unlike the pathetic lap dogs of the 
Kin-jin, a dhampyr who comes of age needs not rely on any undead patron to 
secure her destiny; she is free to walk her own path. 
(At least in theory. Some Kuei-jin seek the creation of dhampyr children 
for just such daylight services, and they have strong opinions about letting their 
progeny simply walk away from them!) 


undead kin may even find themselves declared akuma, necessitating a quick flight 
to avoid an unpleasant fate at the hands of the undead. No matter how well they may 
think the Kuei-jin esteem them, all dhampyrs must remember that their position is 
ever a hair’s breadth from disaster. The Kuei-jin are notoriously unforgiving, 
especially with those they consider to literally embody the concept of “half-person.” 
It’s no wonder, then, that many Shade Walkers strike out on their own in some 
form or another, selling their services to the highest bidder or even simply seeking to 
find the solution to the problems raised by their unique state. In many ways, dhampyrs 
find themselves in analogous situations to children of extremely wealthy means. They 
are distanced from most ordinary folks by the very circumstances of their birth, and yet, 
they must also deal with “parents” who have little consideration for the their own 
ambitions and dreams. Indeed, conceived as mere tools, dhampyrs must struggle hard 
to establish themselves and their own identity away from the courts. They must learn 
how to cope with passion when almost everything they see around them is fleetmg. 
They must manage the powers they have without encouraging the Demon to new 
heights of evil. It is a constant struggle just figuring out how to place themselves m a 
world that always seem to be either moving too quickly or too slowly for them. 
(Andbefore anyone asks, no, there havenever beenanydhampyr Shih, and there 
never should be unless the Storyteller is in the mood to add a ridiculously powerful and 
overly cinematic character to the game. For those still interested, the screening 
processes of SFO would detect a dhampyr early on, which would mean a short trip to 
the vivisection chamber for the unfortunate Shade Walker caught in their clutches.) 
However, for players seeking a change of pace or who wish to explore some 
of the dark alleys and hidden places of the Kuei-jin world, dhampyrs present an 
interesting dimension to any Laws of the East game. 
For more on dhampyrs and their relations to the Kuei-jin, see the Kindred 
of the East Companion. 
DHAMPYR 
CHARACTER 
CREATION 
Dhampyrs should use the rules for creating mortals found in Laws of the 
Hunt, with the following alterations: 
Dhampyr characters receive 7/5/3 for their starting Attributes; the blood 
of the immortals within them makes them slightly stronger than most beings. 
Dhampyrs may have a maximum of 10 Traits in an Attribute category. 
Dhampyrs receive one level of a Kuei-jin Discipline, provided it is a Shintai 
Discipline or Demon Art (the other Disciplines are beyond their ken). They may 
learn Disciplines during play at double the usual cost. A dhampyr’s age in centuries 
determines how many levels of a single Discipline he can possess (round up). 
Therefore, a 269-year-old dhampyr may leamup to three levels of a given Discipline. 
Dhampyrs must choose normal Virtues (Courage, Self-Control, etc.), and 
they do not have a Dharma rating - 
they possess Humanity instead. (See Laws of 
the Night for details on these Virtues.) When it comes to determining things like 
effective Chi Virtue ratings and how much Chi they may access and so on, use the 
same rules for Chi expenditure as given for Shih and SFO agents in Laws of the East. 
Dhampyrs begin play with one P’o Trait. Their Demons are not awakened 
as are those of the Kuei-jin, and they cannot initiate shadow soul. Theirs is more 
of a barely noticeable urge toward monstrosity. Dhampyrs may access Demon 


Chi and use it for the same benefits that Kuei-jin get from it. Of course, this dark 
side can grow stronger over time. Any time the character loses his last Humanity 
Trait from committing an evil act, she gains a P’o Trait along with the standard 
derangement. A dhampyr can have no more Humanity Traits than five minus 
her Po rating, so those who slide into monstrosity rarely regain much human 
empathy. Dhampyrs with three or more P‘o return as Kuei-jin when they die. 
Dhampyrs cannot access Kuei-jin powers such as Ghostsight or Lifesight. They 
are not truly reborn souls in dead flesh, but half-living, half-dead beings. However, 
Dhampyrs may use their Chi to heal themselves in the same manner as Kuei-jin, at 
a rate of one health level of lethal or two health levels of bashing damage per Chi 
Trait. Dhampyrs require normal mortal amounts of food, drink, sleep, etc., although 
the need for these things can be staved off for a day with the expenditure of a Chi 
Trait. Dhampyrs also do not suffer from Chi imbalance as Kuei-jindo, although they 
may certainly become imbalanced as the result of supernatural manipulation. 
Dhampyrs regain Chi normally, as mortals do. They may also regain Chi by 
eating flesh (they lack the enlightenment necessary to gain sustenance from blood 
or breath). Each health level offers one Trait of Chi. Of course, gaining Chi in this 
fashion is sure to provoke a Conscience test in all but the most depraved of dhampyrs. 
Dhampyrs are hardy creatures. Once they mature, they effectively age at 
a rate of one year for every 10 years that pass. Furthermore, dhampyrs are more 
difficult to kill than normal mortals. Not only can they heal themselves with 
their Chi, but dhampyrs’ players may also make a Static Physical Challenge 
against six Traits whenever their characters are reduced below Incapacitated by 
lethal damage (aggravated still kills normally). If successful, the dhampyr 
effectively hovers at the brink of death for one scenehour, during which time 
he appears dead to all normal and supernatural probing (thus typically fooling 
his attackers into believing they’ve destroyed him). At the end of this time, the 
dhampyr may begin spending Chi to heal normally. If no Chi is available, the 
character is considered Incapacitated, and must heal normally (i.e., very slowly). 
YU 
LAN-J I N 
WHIRLWINDS 
O P  TATTERED 
BODIES 
Not all souls survive the Road Back with the same resilience that the Kuei-jin 
do. The lacerating winds of Hell cripple some souls, and those souls have trouble 
holding on to their mortal forms when they return to the Middle Kingdom. These 
unfortunates must leap from body to body constantly as they try in vain to hold onto 
some sense of identity. Yulan-jin - 
or Soul Jumpers as the younger Kuei-jin call 
them - 
are tragic creatures indeed, for the ceaseless transition between bodies 
makes Dharmic advancement next to impossible, dooming most of these poor souls 
to a brief, confused stay in the Middle Kingdom before sliding back to Yomi once 
more. It takes a truly determined and focused soul to make any kind of unlife out of 
such difficult circumstances, and many more Yulan-jin slip back into Yomi than 
remain. However, those Yulan-jin that somehow manage to curb their constant 
wandering become some of the most focusedsoulsunder Heaven, determined as they 
are to battle off the might of Hell itself to retain their identity. 
As if their unlives weren’t difficult enough already, Kuei-jin society rejects 
those Soul Jumpers it uncovers. Destroying these creatures is considered a mercy 


killing, as the Kuei-jin believe that the Yulan-jin only pose a threat to others with 
their unstable lifestyle and since their Dharmic difficulty makes them more likely 
to become murderous chihmei or even seek out the Yama Kings for aid. Of course, 
a Yulan-jin is essentially identical to a Kuei-jin in the beginning, and some are 
even inducted into a court or a wu. At their first “death,” however, the vampire’s 
true nature becomes apparent. Instead of hovering near the body during the Little 
Death, theYulan-jin’ssoulwhisksoff 
insearchofanothercorpse to inhabit. Yulan- 
jin are thus forced to live alone or in small communities of their own kind. Most 
Soul Jumpers adopt a single name that they retain from lifetime to lifetime (often 
prefaced with “Yulan” so that it can be distinguished from a Kuei-jin - 
“Yulan+ 
Lei” or “Yulan-Wang,” for example). This practice is often their only means of 
retaining some sense of identity, for they may awaken in a new body hundreds of 
miles from friends and allies each time they ‘‘pass on,” and material possessions 
don’t accompany the change. Thus, Yulan-jin seldom form lasting attachments, 
and they deal with each other on the basis of reputation. Those who accomplish 
great deeds or hold onto their forms for a long time are accorded much respect. 
Since their constant body-shifting can pose intense demands on a Storyteller 
(who wants to have a character who drops in wearing a different face every few 
sessions and who sometimes must come from a hundred miles away or more?), 
players should secure permission before creating Yulan-jin characters. They 
should also be aware that while it is possible for some of these vampires to rise to 
great station and standing, it’s far more likely that they will have a much shorter 
stay in the Middle Kingdom than normal Kuei-jin. If playing this kind of tragic 
character suits them, then fine, but if they’re not comfortable with the long odds 
stacked against them, perhaps they’re better off playing another type of character. 
YULAN-JIN 
CHARACTER 
CREATION 
Yulan-jin are created and played identically to regular Kuei-jin, with the 
following alterations: 
Yulan-jin start with one fewer Willpower Traits than normal Kuei-jin, a 
mark of the terrible damage done by the lacerating winds of Yomi. 
Yulan-jin may have any Dharma, although they seldom progress very far. 
Asanote, theseKuei-jindon’ttend todowellevenwith theThousand Whispers 
Dharma. That path requires that a life be studied until everything possible has 
been learned from it, and Yulan-jin are frequently forced to discard an identity 
before learning everything they can. 
Body swapping - 
A Yulan-jin is forced to leave her current body from 
time to time. During such times, her soul is forced to endure the torment of Yomi 
for days or even weeks until another suitable body has been found to host the 
spirit. (Storytellers are encouraged to describe such periods, if not actually 
roleplay them out with the player.) Once the Yulan-jin leaves the body, it 
immediately becomes entirely dead and decays as appropriate for a corpse of its 
age. A Soul Jumper passes on whenever any of the following conditions occur: 
Temporary Willpower is reduced to zero 
Temporary Chi of either type is completely exhausted 
She suffers torpor. (Final Death sends the Yulan-jin to Yomi for good.) 
After settling in a body, the Soul Jumper is always disoriented and may even 
experience some permanent memory loss, thus sliding the vampire closer to 


’ oblivion with every leap. The Yulan-jin’s player must make a Static Willpower 
Challenge against four Traits. Success means the character suffers some disorien- 
tation but is otherwise all right. Failure means the character suffers more severe 
amnesia (only the barest details remain clear) and must remove one Ability level 
permanently. In addition, players who fail must immediately win or tie a Simple 
Test. Failing this test means the character loses a permanent Willpower Trait as 
her soul frays even further from the stress of the change. Characters reduced to zero 
Willpower this way pass into Yomi for good, the soul dissipating in the winds of 
Hell. All guunxi previously established are also broken on assuming a new body. 
Yulan-jin lose a Dharma Trait automatically when they pass on, which 
makes it difficult to hold on to enlightenment for any period of time. Yulan-jin 
who pass on with no Dharma Traits are blasted back to Yomi permanently. 
It should be noted that while the player of the Yulan-jin must still make 
sure other players know of any differences in their character’s appearance as they 
move from body to body, the vampire’s soul seldom chooses a body radically 
different from its original. Therefore, unless the Storyteller rules otherwise, 
Yulan-jin do not change Attributes, Attribute totals or Abilities when they shift 
bodies. They may look different, but it’s the same soul within. 
Yulan-j in are normally indistinguishable from regular Kuei-jin, unless one 
witnesses them pass on (watching their soul flee), or successfully uses one of the 
following Disciplines on them: the Cultivation Discipline of Scrutinixe, the Obliga- 
tion Discipline of Soul Bridge or the Chi’iu Muh power Pu~$~atiun. 
Note that the 
character may not know exactly what he’s looking at unless he possesses a few 
levels of the Occult Ability. He just knows that whatever it is, it isn’t a Kuei-jin. 


THF MOURNING AETFR 
J 
by Cynthia Summers 
Cynthia knows things. She’s been developing Mind’s Eye Theatre for 
more than a year now, and she’s been playing Mind’s Eye Theatre since she 
started working for White Wolf in 1994. She’s one of the resident JARPing 
experts in house here, and as an observer of the dynamics of live-action 
rokplaying society, she is without peer. 
DEAL IN^ WITH CHARACTER 
DEATH 
It’s only natural that when you engage in something that has you figura- 
tively climbing into the skin of another person, you get attached to that person. 
Likewise, when you’re spending a great deal of time and energy on something 
that’s a close part of your life, you get used to that activity as part of the order of 
things. Therefore, when a character dies, it can throw you for a real loop. Some 
players grouse, but they go fetch out the back-up character they created for just 
such an emergency. Some leave the site in a rage to find a beer to bitch into and 
a computer by which to spread the news. Very rarely, some are not sorry to see 
the character go at all. Maybe they weren’t crazy about some aspects that 
developed over time, and the death was a neat exeunt into the final night. And 
then there are those folks for whom the event is a wallop upside the head that 
leaves them floundering around trying to figure out what happened. 
R I 9 H T WAY 
s 
The first thing to remember is that the death of a character isn’t the end of 
the world. All stories end. Some take longer roads than others, but eventually, 
the tale comes to an end. Still, if you’ve had a long run with a character, or you’re 
particularly fond of it, a sudden end of the road can be hard. So what should you 
do? Here are some ideas to grab onto during those first few days: 
Take some time off. Consider taking a break to just chill out and rediscover 
those hobbies you enjoy when you’re not LARPing. As that favorite button 
slogan goes, sometimes death is Nature’s way of telling you to slow down. You 
may find this advice helpful to give yourself a little distance in creating a new 
character or to ensure that you don’t gravitate automatically toward your old 
character’s former allies and friends. If you want to keep playing, consider 
seeking out a different venue to get your “fix.” 
Do a 180 in your next character. Consider death a new beginning when 
creating your next character. If you played a combat-active former Navy SEAL, 
try playing a scholar who gets green at the mere idea of a fight. If you previously 
threw all your energy at a Vampire chronicle, redirect it toward Changeling. At 
the very least, such a change-up ensures that you won’t be mistaken for your old 
character. You’ve got a clean slate - 
make the most of it. 
T T ~  
your hand at storytelling. So you want to take some time off from playing, 
but you don’t want to sit at home in front of the tube or the computer? Maybe this 


is the time to think about storytelling. Find out if your Storyteller could use a hand, 
or write up a plot to submit. You may discover some previously hidden talents. If you 
ever had a gripe about how things ran, now is the time to do something about it. 
Find closure. Finding a way to gently draw the curtain on something you 
were close to is tough. You may attend your character’s funeral (very surrepti- 
tiously, of course). You may vent throughvarious mediums, like art or sports. You 
may pause to consider your own mortality. You may feel weepy when you hear 
a song you associated with your character. You may bawl through your favorite 
movie while devouring a whole box of chocolates. There’s no real wrong way to 
find closure, provided you approach it with maturity. 
Realize it’s not the end of the world. The world won’t stop turning because 
Count Marmaduke came to an unfortunate demise at the end of an assassin’s cold 
iron knife or your Silver Fang Ahroun went down while fighting a Thunderwyrm. 
Theneat thing about storytelling games is that when one runs out, there are always 
more waiting. There will always be more games to play and stories to tell. 
W R O N g  W A Y S  
Now, of course, for every right way to do things, there exists a wrong way 
to do them. Losing characters does sometimes seem to cause people to lose their 
heads and do things that they might find reprehensible in other circumstances. 
So, while I’m not saying that you would rush off and do something so silly, it’s 
good to remember what are the wrong things to do: 
Create a new character exactly like the old one. Oh, come on now. If you’re 
going to do that, then why are you reading this? Doing this sort of thing gets you 
responses like, “Get over it.” Sequels that are just a rehash of the first story get 
sneered at. Don’t be a sequel. Only rarely are they as good as the original. 
Come in with a vendetta against your old character’s killers. Creating a 
character who’s the relative of your late character and whose only purpose is to 
kill off the ones who screwed your original character over the first time is a 
hallmark of the sore loser and the immature player. Should you have a m e  
grievance, take it to the proper authority and let vengeance be the Storyteller’s. 
Throw a tantrum. To put it bluntly, throwing a tantrum is immature. 
We’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again - 
when you play this game, you decide 
what risks to accept or decline. If you don’t like the odds, don’t play. It’s that 
simple. If your character takes the risk of becoming an infemalist and doesn’t 
cover his tracks while he busily destroys lives, then few people are going to have 
much sympathy for you when your character is hunted down like a dog. You took 
the risk; accept the consequences gracefully. Words spoken in anger, particu- 
larly threats and curses, can last for a lot longer than anger itself, and they will 
certainly impact your return to the game. 
STOBYTFLLEBS 
Now what if you’re a Storyteller on the “other side of the fence,” as it were? 
Some circumstances come up that the books just can’t tell you about because we 
can’t guess at all the experiences you’ll run into. Consider these words to be like 
the ones that all funeral-home directors have: 
Be prepared to see the player vanish for a while. Unwelcome memories can 
be burdensome in the midst of a game, and she may not want to deal with things 
THE M O U B N I N ~  
APTER 


for a while. Give her some space, and don’t demand she return to the game. Just 
let her know she’s welcome when she’s ready. 
Be prepared to listen to some venting. When a player’s character dies, you’ll 
probably hear some griping about the unfairness of it all - 
it’s a given. When 
things devolve into tantrums and other unpleasantness, however, put your foot 
down and don’t give it any more credence. 
Make sure everything is on the level. If there’s evidence that character death 
was brought about solely due to cheating, out-of-character knowledge or dislike 
of the player, you’ve got a problem. While you may not be able to bring the lost 
character back, you can ensure that justice is done. 
Don’t be mean. Admit it - 
we’ve all had those characters or players who 
have been thorns in our sides, and we find ourselves hoping that said character 
will go away (and take the player with him). Should you have such a player, then 
don’t celebrate when the day comes. There are still people who are unhappy 
about the event, and gloating about it just makes you look like a weasel. 
MEMENTO 
MORI 
One of the biggest fears of death is that we will be forgotten by the living 
once we are no longer around to assert our presence. It’s part of why we erect 
gravestones and monuments, to ensure against such an outcome. Legacies of one 
sort or another are a possible way to cheat Death. Many a building has been built, 
a library founded or a patronage made to ensure that someone’s name was not 
forgotten. This tradition isn’t limited to the real-life living. 
Consider having a character write a will at some point, perhaps with the idea 
that he’s providing for his dependents (be they ghouls, childlings, Kinfolk etc.) or 
seeing that his resources and possessions are disposed of properly. Check with your 
Storyteller to see ifshe will allow Backgrounds 1ikeResources to be distributed. The 
last requests of a will (“Bury my ashes in Poland,” “Make sure my daughter can 
finish school”) could send characters into the arms of new plot while carrying out 
the late character’s wishes or provide some exciting roleplaying opportunities. 
What if someone contests the will, or your character chooses an unlikely executor 
that many disagree with (a Fianna entrusts her will to a Bone Gnawer)? The 
resulting plot will have the recipients certainly thinking about your late character, 
although whether it’s to take his name in vain or to praise him is another matter. 
Let the Storyteller know that should your character be declared dead, there’s a 
lawyer or lawyer-type with a letter for someone, which may be interesting in and 
of itself if a character has a public persona you weren’t aware of. 
Another ideaistoleavedocumentsinasecretcacheforsomeluckyplayer.Examp1es 
of such might be the letters a Nosferatu was writing to the Tremere he loved from afar 
(which give some hints about his impending death), a set of very spiritual Gaia poems 
createdby aKinfolk (which give someobservations that prick thesept’science alittle 
too fiercely) or an eshu’s travel journal written in Farsi (complete with comments 
regarding other courts). Uncovered documents can be fodder for smaller, more personal 
plot lines. (Who might the documents embarrass, or what secrets will they reveal?) 
Again, it takes pre-planning. Start workmg on such thingsw, even if you don’t thmk 
that your character’s in trouble. Once your character passes on, give the phys-reps to the 
Storyteller and give her the complete scoop on where the items are so she knows what 
to do when someone finds the secret pasage or discovers the magic box. 


Another option that some might look at is to become a wraith. Depending 
on the character, this progression could be an entirely natural. Vampires who 
didn’t reach Golconda, mortals, Kinfolk, kinain and ghouls are all likely 
candidates for the Underworld, but remember that the souls of werewolves, 
changelings and mages get “recycled” for later generations. This transformation 
may lead into interactions with the Giovanni, sluagh or other speakers with the 
dead. One interesting example of such a change was of a mortal nun who was 
murdered by the Inquisition and became a wraith. Rather than haunt her killers, 
she chose to watch over several vampires she had known while she lived, 
encouraging them to maintain their Humanity and becoming a sort of guardian 
angel. Later, she became a Storyteller vehicle to introduce a new plot that had 
ties to the Underworld. Just make sure that your character’s transformation into 
a wraith is not an excuse to make other players miserable. It’s one thing for a 
wraith to have the Passion of haunting her murderer, but it’s another altogether 
to harangue a player non-stop throughout the evening. Such errant ones should 
be rewarded with frisky Shadows or a quick trip into the Maelstrom. 
Lastly, remember that talk is free, and it costs you no actions during combat 
(unless you’re reduced to unconsciousnw or torpor). The final farewells to one’s 
beloved, the gasped-out confessions, the curses made with dying breath and the need 
for forgiveness before death are the moments that high drama is made of. From the 
most famous lines (“It is finished”) to the not-quite as famous ones (“Friends, 
applaud! The comedy is over.”), last words place your character in the annals of the 
game memory. If your character has a sadistic streak, you could choose to make your 
passing even more memorable by revealing a secret that affects those left behind. A 
prime example occurs in Tolkien’s Silmmillion, where the dying dragon Glaurung 
informs the maiden Niniel that her husband Turambar (who is Glaurung’s slayer) 
is in fact the brother who was separated from her as a child. Tender or terrible, last 
words can make a vivid final impression on the survivors. 
Death in LARP is pretty unavoidable unless your character chooses to hide 
under arock indefinitely. Eventually, it will find him in some form, whether it’s 
his own or a valued comrade’s. When staring down its barrel, remember the 
words of one pragmatist: “Who wants to live forever, anyway?” 
In pace requiescat. 


M I N D ’ S  


YORIZON: 
UPCOMIN~ 
L A R P  EVENTS 
. 
.vuyc 
L.lc uala6ULL.e 
Moon; 
OnyxIlluminatus; Charleston, SC 
Tampa, FL 
Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail.com 
Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail.com 
SOUTHWESTERN 
U S  
Rage Against the Darkness; 
Tempe, AZ 
Cybertec@c yberdude.com 
Song of Sonora; Tucson, AZ 
Kevin Lynch 11, KWLynchBao1.com 
Collin Toohey, 
(520) 722-2688 
(602) 942-4994 
O T H E R S  ( UNSPECIEIEDAND 
MIXED 
~ A M E S )  
Dark Carpathia, Portland, ME 
h t t p : / I  ho m e. m a i n  e. r r. c o m /  
darkcarpathia/darkcarp.html 
play tests upcoming supplements) 
East of the River, Vernon, CT 
D. Scott Stewart, storytelle@eotr.org 
Fortress of the Mind’s Eye; 
Lansing, MI 
Aaron Ledger, ledgeraa@pilot.msu.edu 
Brian-Joseph Baker, 
(517) 372-1452 
bakebj b@email. uc.edu 
Imagination Shop Theater Guild 
Fridays: Sacramento, CA 
Alternate Saturdays: Santa Cruz, CA 
Sundays: Santa Rosa, CA 
Pete Magnetti, 
ISTC-MAIN@hotmail.com 
Dennis “Tristan” Hanson, 
(916) 369-6948 
Dollph ynn@aoI.com 
More Than Night; Portland, Oregon 
(Independent game that sometimes 
Bruce Baugh, bruce-baughQsff.net 
Nox Imperium; Longview, WA 
katzmeow@kalama.com 
Of Shadow & Light; Cincinnati, Ohio 
(513) 777-7778 
Trails End Troupe; Salem, OR 
Coordinatrix@hotmaiI.com 
United San Diego; San Diego, CA 
9 
AM E s A R  o u N D T H E WO R L D  
Camarilla Cambridge; 
Cambridge, England 
Robert Baker-Self, Robertafiddlers- 
Andreas Beck, 
green.demon.co.uk 
pooka@globalnet.co.uk 
+44 (0) 122 350 3674 
Vampire LARP; Reading, England 
-9 
