Here is the material to bring the Apocalypse sharp 
for your chronicle. From the corrupted fomori to the Hive 
Black S iral Dancers to the many arms of the Pentex co 
very ha 1s of Malfeas, here is laid out what the Garou 
' what may be the eve of Apocalypse, it will take more 
survive what's coming ... 
1. 
?#it- 
P 
i 
WW5029 $15.95 U.S. 
5 1 5 9 5  
9 781588 465078 
PRINTED IN USA 


6 
P 
i 
I 
I 


Written by: Jackie Cassada, Earle “Glas” Durboraw, Heather Grove, 
Additional Writing by: Cynthia Summers 
Developed by: Cynthia Summers 
Edited by: Carl Bowen 
Previously published material has appeared in: Laws of the Wild, 
Changing Breeds Book 1, Changing Breeds Book 2, Subsidiaries: A Players 
Guide to Pentex, Freak Legion and Book of the Wyrm Second Edition 
Matthew Hooper, Alan I. Kravit, Nicky Rea 
Art direction by: Aaron Voss 
Photographs by: Pauline Benney 
Front and back cover design: Jaon Liang 
Layout and typesetting by: Jaon Liang 


C h e  Lesson: A Cautionary Tale 
Chapter One: fntrobuction 
10 
Chapter Two: Cosmology 
22 
4 
Chapter Three: R M a p  of Hell 
36 
Chapter Four: T h e  d a c k  Spiral Oancers 
Chapter Five: T h e  Fallen anb the Wretcheb 
Chapter Six: @entex anb Subsibiaries 
Appenbix: T h e  W y r m ’ s  Arsenal 
194 
56 
108 
154 
3


For Curb 
“How much further do we have to go?” Serenity asked, heaving her 
backpack onto her shoulder and following her guide deeper into the cave. 
“Not very far.” Ellery’s voice echoed as the tall, lanky man pushed 
onward, throwing his words over his shoulder at his dogged companion. 
Serenity sighed and inhaled deeply, gritting her teeth against the tiredness in 
her shins and the ache in her upper thighs from the day-long trek through the 
wilderness to this place. 
Is it worth it to know what he’s promised to teach you? The young woman 
asked herself that question for the 50th time since leaving home this morning 
to follow Ellery’s promise of a “vision quest” that would answer all of her 
questions about how the world worked. 
Serenity smiled secretly. Ellery couldn’t know that she already had a good 
idea of the ways in which much of the world worked - 
and that it wasn’t like 
the world that most people knew. She was Qualmi, a fortunate child of many 
forms, whose desire for secret knowledge and the will to understand the riddles 
of the world stretched before her as a road that must be traveled. 
Her search for answers to many “whys” had led her to Ellery just a few 
short weeks ago. Mysterious, seductive yet engagingly friendly, Ellery had met 
Serenity in the Downtown Bookstore, in the Occult section, midway between 
C~oe~ley 
and ESP. After a brief conversation about books in general, occult 
knowledge in particular and Serenity’s favorite kind of coffee, she found 
herself sitting across from Ellery over cups of mocha latte in a nearby coffee 
shop. That evening, Serenity discovered that Ellery knew a lot about things 
such as vampires and ghosts and other creatures that she knew existed but had 
only begun to study. 
5 


For every question she asked, Ellery had an answer, giving her access to 
worlds she had only dreamed of. Her Kuasha, her mentor, had been so 
maddeningly stingy with knowledge, telling her constantly that she must 
grow into her mind and wait until the proper moment to learn the proper 
rituals and secrets. 
Ellery displayed none of the exclusiveness she associated with her 
mentor. Although he topped the Heathcliff scale for brooding and sinister 
good looks, he had a ready smile for her and an even readier tongue. He 
broadened her mind to accept the fact that there were more sides to an issue 
than just the right one and the wrong one. 
“Even evil has its place in the scheme of things,” he’d told her one night 
just before she left his second-story walk-up to go home to the small house she 
shared with two college roommates (both of whom remained blissfully 
clueless to all her secrets). 
Today - 
tonight, actually - 
she would meet Ellery’s own mentor, his 
own private fount of knowledge. “If you think I know a lot, my sweet child,” 
he’d told her when they’d made this date for a weekend trek to the Mastodon 
Caves, “you need to meet Anshaya.” 
“That’s a cool name,” she had replied. “What’s it mean?” 
Ellery smiled and kissed the tips of her fingers, a gesture that sent a thrill 
of anticipation through her, since he had implied that the two-day trek would 
initiate a new phase in their relationship in addition to introducing her to the 
mysterious Anshaya. 
“She’ll tell you that herself,” Ellery had said. 
A hot gust of air sweeping up from deep within the cavern brought 
Serenity out of her musings. 
“Ellery?” she called, shining her flashlight into the darkness ahead of her 
and trying to listen for the sound of his boots - 
a sound, she recalled, that she 
had not heard for the last several minutes. Only silence answered her. 
“Ellery?” This time her voice wavered a little. A soft sigh wafted to her 
ears on the top of the warm wind, seeming to beckon her further into the 
darkness. She looked over her shoulder, hoping to see a glimmer of light from 
the world she had left behind and finding only darkness. They had maneu- 
vered through too many twisting passages for her to find any solace in the last 
rays of the afternoon sun. 
In for a penny, she thought. She had been dawdling, lost in her own 
remembrances, and Ellery had probably outdistanced her without stopping to 
consider that she might not be as quick as he. 
The darkness around her grew thicker and her flashlight beam faded and 
dimmed, finally going out with one final surge that showed her a long narrow 
tunnel opening ahead of her. This is going to require some tricky crawling. She 
wondered why Ellery hadn’t warned her about this part of the trek. 
Then she remembered something that Ellery had said to her, and some 
of the tension building up inside her dissipated. “Anshaya always tests her 
6 


students,” he had told her just last night. He had, in fact, made certain that 
they had only a single sleeping bag between them and had made good use of 
it. “The teacher always possesses the student in m e  form or another,” he’d said 
when she tried to tell him he was too rough. “Hush and enjoy it,” he’d 
whispered, and she’d done her best to obey, like a good student. 
This is a test. This is only a test. She repeated the words over and over as 
she knelt down in the stony cavern and, on hands and knees, poked her head 
through the opening before her. Sharp rocks protruded through the thin 
material ofher worn Levis and stabbed into her unprotected palms. After only 
a few feet in the darkness, she felt exhausted. Sweat dripped from her hairline 
into her face, stinging her eyes. 
Screw this, she said and concentrated on shifting into feline form. Her 
body shrank and compacted, absorbing most of her clothing but leaving her 
backpack behind, changing shape until apretty lynx female stood in the place 
where Serenity had knelt only moments before. For a few moments, she 
reveled in the luxury her new form afforded her - 
padded paws that 
cushioned her steps from the sharp rocks, stiff tactile whiskers to help her 
maneuver through the narrow passage. Her pupils dilated, adjusting to the 
darkness quickly. What she saw did not comfort her. 
The darkness ahead of her seemed to take form, coalescing into inky 
shapes that sighed and breathed warm air that now carried a slight, fetid 
stench of rotting meat with it. She stopped, reluctant to go on while these odd 
phenomena flitted around her, nudging her with slimy protuberances and 
leaving a sense of decay in their wake, like a thin film on her fur. She tried to 
turn in the passage, only to find that it had grown narrower and she couldn’t 
maneuver herself all the way around, even in lynx-form. There was no other 
way out but through. 
Thoughts of Ellery entered her mind, driving her on like a compulsion 
now. He’d better have some good answer sf or me after this shit. Then the greatest 
riddle of the day struck her. How could he have gotten through this passage 
unless he, too, could assume another form? A chill ran down her back, her fur 
stood on end, and a low growl began in her throat. She had assumed that Ellery 
was some sort of occultist - 
knowledgeable in the ways of magic and hidden 
lore but otherwise just a normal human. She had kept the secret of her true 
nature from him, unwilling to frighten him and deprive herself of both his 
company and his knowledge. Lot of good that did; he’s probably laughing at my 
foolishness right now. 
Something inside her grew hard and cold. I’ll show him -and his menm, 
too. Still growling, she pushed on. 
The passage narrowed even more until she had to creep, flattened nearly to 
the ground, belly scraping the rough cavern floor. The sense of oppressiveness 
grew as she became more and more aware of tons of rock over her. Now the 
whispers intensified as forms brushed her whiskers, startling her and causing her 
to jerk her head involuntarily. Twice she cut her cheek on a sharp rock jutting 
from the side of the passage as she tried to avoid yet another slimy touch. 


Ahead of her, the whispers hardened into voices - 
a pair of them, one 
male and familiar, the other husky and sexually indeterminate but reeking of 
age and decrepitude. 
“She should be here any minute now, wise one,” a voice that was 
unmistakably Ellery’s reached her ears. Why doesn’t it give me any comfort? 
Despair filled her as she heard the reply. 
“Good, child, good. You’ve been slow about bringing her to us.” 
Ellery groaned, almost as if he were in pain. “Forgive me. You’ll see, when 
she comes to you. She’s-’’ 
“A pretty little slut, yes?” The hag - 
that was how Serenity thought of 
the speaker - 
cackled. “You’ve always had a weakness for the tiny, pretty 
ones. Too bad they usually don’t survive the testing.” 
Serenity stopped still as she heard those words. You fool! She berated 
herself. Blind, stupid fool! Half-forgotten legends crept back into her mind, 
stories of others like herself who had fallen to the lure of one too many 
forbidden secrets. Knowing that she could not turn around, Serenity franti- 
cally tried to move backward through the passage. 
“Too late!” a howling chorus sounded in her ears as she felt something cold 
and intractable shove her forward. She felt herself falling through the darkness, 
only a few feet, it seemed. She landed in a pool of chilly, noxious slime. 
“Welcome, Serenity,” Ellery said, his voice low and sinister, with none 
of the soft seductiveness it had held earlier. “You are lying in the arms of my 
master. Meet Anshaya.” 
The pool surrounded her, lapping at her with its liquid foulness. She 
opened her mouth to scream and the viscous water seeped into her and filled 
her throat. She felt herself bum as she shifted forms, running through all of 
her shapes randomly as the stuff of the pool filled her body and invaded her 
mind. It sifted through her thoughts and emotions until nothing was left that 
was unsoiled by its presence. Finally, she lay on the ground, soaking wet and 
covered with slime, in her human form. 
Ellery stood over her. “You’ve met Anshaya and been judged worthy, 
barely, for the gift we’re about to give you,” he said. Dimly, Serenity sensed 
others enter the room. Hands stripped the clothes from her body, paws batted 
at her, and rough tongues licked her eyes and mouth as if tasting her fear. 
“From now on, you will know the darkness like you have never known it 
before. You will learn secrets no one has ever thought to teach you. And you 
will come to love it. You will come to need the sweet smell of rotting blood 
and the soft, whimpering screams of the kill that you bring as asacrifice toyour 
teacher.” Ellery’s flat, hard voice seemed to come from a distance as Serenity 
tried to run away inside herself. 
The others - 
four or five or six or a hundred others - 
surrounded her 
as she lay on the floor, naked and unable to do anything but wish she were 
somewhere else. “Welcome to the ranks of the Hishtpah, little kitten. This is 
your rite of passage into madness and wisdom.” 
8 


Even before the first blow struck, drawing blood that congealed on her 
skin, Serenity felt a scream forming in her throat. With each successive blow, 
more blood ran over her body, forming a hard shell that enclosed her in 
herself. Her voice broke and then grew still as she felt her throat close up. 
Drying blood formed a stiff collar around her larynx, silencing her cries. Before 
she lost consciousness, she heard Ellery’s voice once more. 
“For your information, Anshaya is one of the many names of the 
Unmaker. It means ‘Watery Torment.’ Enjoy your rebirth. It only gets worse 
from here.” 
9 


The tssence of Oarkness 
To fully appreciate the dangers and ironies of existence in the World of 
Darkness, one always needs challenges that go beyond the everyday, as well 
as greater (or more frightening) foes. While werewolves might like to think 
of vampires as Wyrm-tainted, there exist other creatures who embody the 
very essence of corruption. These creatures of the Wyrm have yet to be 
detailed fully - 
until now. 
Know as you read Book of the Wyrm for Mind’s Eye Theatre that you 
hold in your hands the key to playing the twisted, the corrupt, the horrors 
beyond horror and the truly damned. Have you ever yearned to break free of 
the constraints of playing the hero -even the fallible, fallen one? Have you 
longed to play a villain beyond redemption? Then step right up. Let us seduce 
you with our dark vision. You know you want to. 
What Chis nook Is 
Book of the Wyrm for Mind’s Eye Theatre is the adaptation of the 
Werewolf: The Apocalypse sourcebook of the same name, but made with 
Laws of the Wild in mind. Herein, we detail the Wyrm, its minions, its 
creatures and its servitors. We look at its realm of Malfeas, Pentex and fomori, 
as well as the Gifts, rites, fetishes and other paraphernalia that followers of the 
Wyrm use to corrupt, weaken and destroy in their master’s name. 
But first, a short primer for both Storytellers and players on the subtleties 
of playtime among the hideous and the putrid. 
11 


Horror 
Horror is best invoked as a gradual revelation, not an immediate shock. 
Edgar Allan Poe and H.P. Lovecraft were both masters of the horror tale in which 
the ordinary slowly evolved into the frightening or the unthinkable, with the 
hero coming to the realization of being trapped in an inescapable situation. 
While some horror tales might feature the people caught up in them as unwitting 
and random victims, most good horror stories come about as the result of 
something from the heroes’ past or their meddling in the present. Think of The 
Sixth Sense, in which classic elements of horror (echoing from a past mistake, a 
gradual revelation) combine into a chilling realization by the hero. 
Horror takes its own time to unfold. It is best played out over a series of 
game sessions. Imagine the horror invoked in an apparently blase Shadow 
Lord who once fought beside a pack of noted Garou to defeat a powerful Bane 
of Corruption. Because the Shadow Lord desired all the renown and adulation 
for himself, he failed to help rescue the last surviving Garou (besides himself) 
as she scrabbled to escape the Bane’s lair, a pit of acidic corruption. Her last 
despairing cry followed him for years and haunted his dreams until he 
hardened himself to it. Now a young pack has uncovered that pit and called 
him there to advise them, because even now, something is roiling within that 
12 


dark abyss. He can’t refuse without losing his reputation. As he looks down 
into the coiling corruption below, the ground begins to crack and shudder. A 
gloating female voice shrieks his name in gleeful recognition as the corruption 
vomits forth. Welcome to horror.. .. 
Terror 
Unlike the slow, seductive pace of horror, terror is immediate and visceral. 
Terror evokes an adrenaline surge, making your heart pound, your skin crawl or 
prickle into gooseflesh, drying your mouth and bringing on a cold sweat. It may 
freeze you into immobility or send you hurtling off in a panicked run. There is 
usually some element of surprise in terror, even if heroes are expecting something 
to challenge them. Either the foe catches them unprepared (“We don’t have 
anything silver to use against these guys!”) or he is far more frightening and 
formidable than anyone anticipated. Think of the most disturbing chase dream 
you’ve ever had. Someone pursuing you, only a step behind, armed with an axe 
to dismember you, perhaps? What about the young Garou cut off from the rest 
of her pack and fleeing the touch of a spirit that can infect her with an 
immediately deadly disease - 
one that can even slay werewolves?Now imagine 
that once slain, she would rise as an infectious agent herself rather than returning 
to Gaia and seeking out those she cares for most? Terrifying? 
True terror is actually more difficult to induce than horror. First, when 
the thing that terrifies you actually manifests, it either does the thing you are 
so afraid of or it doesn’t. In other words, it kills/ maims/ forever changes you, 
or its threat is proved false. So, terror is only terror while it is held in abeyance 
and its recipient remains in suspense. While players identify with and care 
about their characters, few will invest the emotional energy necessary to 
invoke the kind of terror that such situations cry out for. And that may be a 
good thing. We’re trying to frighten the character, not the player. We 
wouldn’t want to kick in the fight-or-flight response and emerge from a 
session with broken bones or heart attacks, after all. 
SpIat 
Splat is exactly what it sounds like - 
gory, twisted and revolting. It is 
gratuitous violence that’s designed to shock and sicken its witnesses. Imagine 
the sound made by an eviscerated body falling 20 stories to land on the 
sidewalk below. See the body shatter, flesh flayed off, entrails writhing, blood 
spurting. Smell the odor as the bowels let loose and watch in sick fascination 
as an eyeball, tom from its socket, gently rolls to a stop just touching your toe. 
That’s splat. While some become inured to it, most people would rather 
witness the camage at a comfortable distance. The same people who devour 
footage of the result of an axe-wielding maniac’s handiwork on the television 
screen would vomit if they came to the actual crime scene. 
However, just as we don’t use real or play weapons in MET play, we generally 
avoid creating a scene that actually depicts raw gore. Nonetheless, splat has its 
uses in games. Reports ofcamage, even descriptions of ascene that the characters 
13 


are supposedly viewing, are not as immediate as visual representations, yet they 
can evoke feelings of fear in characters who use their own imaginations to 
consider that they might suffer the same fate. Usually, we imitate Greek drama 
in which all violent actions take place offstage. Splat, as depicted in countless 
Hollywood films is never offstage, but let’s keep it that way in game. 
Why Follow the Rules of Safety? 
W h y  should we go all cushy on violence of the splat variety? It’s a 
matter of safety. 
Indulging in live-action roleplaying provides a safe outlet for exploring 
our darker fantasies and baser capacities without hurting anyone, including 
-hopefully - 
ourselves. In any game set in the World of Darkness there is 
bound to be conflict. Challenge is, after all, what moves the game along and 
builds interest in it. In a game featuring Wyrm-creatures, however, the ante 
is upped due to the nature of the beast. Some players already go pretty far in 
portraying the darkness within the more normal characters available to them. 
Storytellers fall to the same temptations. With the potential for sick and 
twisted behavior and conscienceless violence unleashed, it’s more important 
than ever to curb any tendency toward excess. Many people become excited 
when they’re playing, losing themselves within the moment and reacting in 
character at inappropriate levels. None of us need this, Storyteller or players. 
First, players should never play the game outside a safe environment - 
in the home, at conventions or in a confined area set aside for play. At all 
times, you must remember that it is just agame. It’s exciting, scary, frustrating 
or even upsetting - 
but it’s not reality. If you feel yourself getting too 
involved, take a breather. We’ll all be glad you did. 
Following the Rules of Safety outlined in every Mind’s Eye Theatre book 
helps us remember those parameters. It’s a game. Indulging in unsafe or 
threatening behavior endangers us, unsettles us and may cause those outside 
the game to react to threats that aren’t real or censure our activities. When 
we’re pretending to be hulking, slobbering mega-dark psychopaths, the lines 
between game and real world can get lost in the dance of destruction. We’re 
here to enjoy ourselves in a creative activity, not play head-games or 
domination tag with one another. Let’s keep it in focus. 
Che Only Rules Chat Matter 
The following are the only rules of Mind’s Eye Theatre that absolutely must 
be obeyed. These common-sense rules are designed to keep us all-other garners, 
yourself, bystanders and even police or security officers - 
safe and happy. 
The rules are designed to limit opportunities for others to destroy the fun 
of your game. They aren’t given here to interfere with gameplay, your 
enjoyment or your creativity. They’re here to make certain that you play with 
safety and the fun of all in mind. 
14 
I 
r 
t 
f 
1 
P 


#I - 
It’s Only a Game 
This is the most important rule by far. If a character is killed, if a plot falls 
apart, if a rival wins the day, if your essence is given in bondage to the Wyrm 
- 
it’s still just a game. Leave real-world problems at the door and game 
problems in the playing area. If the character played by your best friend hog- 
ties your character and delivers him to Malfeas, you don’t go out and trash your 
buddy’s car in revenge. Keep it in perspective. 
Leave the game behind when it’s over. While it’s okay to talk about what 
happened and even plan for some future eventualities, doing so at work may 
gain you some weird looks and a quick trip to the company psychologist. 
Likewise, breaking in on another player’s romantic dinner at a restaurant to 
talk game is a no-no. Use your common sense. 
#2 - 
n o  Couching 
You should never actually touch any other players or have any other 
physical contact with them, no matter how careful and gentle you think 
you’re being. Even if you have permission, just don’t. Miscalculations or 
unexpected movement can lead to accidents. People can get hurt. Further, 
some people have an aversion to others coming too close to them. They may 
feel threatened or uncomfortable. Rely on the rules and verbal description to 
take care of physical confrontations. 
#3 - n o  Stunts 
Never climb, jump, run, slide, swing from things or play balance beam. 
Don’t indulge in any sort of horseplay during the game. Again, an injudicious 
action could result in injury or attract unwanted attention from people who 
are not playing the game. You already imagine that you’re someone different, 
you can imagine leaping from a building onto a foe passing below. 
#4 - 
n o  Weapons 
Weapons of any sort - 
real or fake, even the most obvious toys - 
should 
never be brought to the game or allowed into play. Even though you might have 
the best of intentions, keeping your nifty blunted sword peace-bonded in its 
sheath, some fool will dash around the comer and ram into you, driving the hilt 
into your midriff and breaking a rib. Even things that look like toys can cause 
problems. How many kids have police shot down when the kids pointed some- 
thing like a bright red water pistol toward them? Use item cards. Enough said. 
# S  - 
n o  O r u g s  or a r i n k i n g  
This one would seem like a no-brainer. When you’re drunk or high, 
your concentration is shot, you’re often more belligerent, and your judg- 
ment is impaired. That’s why they don’t want you driving a car while under 
the influence. Players impaired by alcohol or drugs lose their sense of 
15 


- d 5 / / 4 i / / c .  
appropriateness, becoming a danger to themselves and others. Furthermore, 
to put it mildly, their acting stinks. Portraying someone who is drunk or high 
is fine; actually indulging isn’t. In short, if you want to indulge, do it on your 
own time. Don’t bring it to the game. 
#6 - 
Oon’t lnoohe Outsibers 
Not everyone is involved in your game. Bystanders and passersby might be 
disturbed or even frightened by what they see. Particularly when the media seems 
to paint every gamer wearing black as a potential murderer who can’t distinguish 
roleplaying from reality, you need to be considerate of those in the vicinity. 
Refrain from loud or apparently threatening displays that could be misinter- 
preted. Take actions that might be misunderstood out of public view. It’s an 
exercise in futility trying to explain to the police that when you screamed, “I did 
it! I dropped him into the acid and the evidence is gone!” you were just kidding. 
#7 - T h e  Rules are Flexible 
Feel free to ignore or adjust any systems or rules that don’t enhance your 
gameplay. If your troupe thinks that retests suck, don’t use them. Just let all 
the players know what the home rules are. White Wolf calls this its version 
of “the Golden Rule.” Change any rules that you find unpalatable. Be 
consistent and fair. Rules that change constantly just breed resentment and 
confusion. The point is to have fun, not be slaves to words in a book. 
#g - 
Haoe Fun! 
We didn’t say, “Win the game.” In a really good game, even those who 
die or fail to achieve all their goals can have a good time. There are no winners, 
no losers, just players and Storytellers working together to tell a good tale. So 
have fun, allow others to have fun. Don’t go out to spread destruction and kill 
off the other characters just because you can. They want to enjoy the game, 
too. If everyone has a good time, you all win anyway. 
Free Will anb the W y r m  
The Wyrm is neither omniscient nor an ever-present evil taskmaster. 
Despite its multiple arms of influence, it is not everywhere at once (although it 
can seem to be). That said, not every evil deed out there is committed in the name 
of the Wyrm. Simply claiming, “The Devil made me do it,” strips the gravity from 
atrocity. The Wyrm could not have a foothold if people were not making active 
choices to do evil, and thus opening themselves to further influence. Not 
everyone who commits evil acts ends up in the thrall of the Wyrm. They do, 
however, do its work, and as long as things are going the way it wants, the Wyrm’s 
not going to argue or interfere with them. The Wyrm is first and foremost a 
cormpter-it 
prefers to be aguide, but it ultimately letothersmake the decision. 
Mindless drones aren’t nearly such great producers as those who can think and 
be creative. And in the end, that is the greatest horror- that people are choosing 
’ 


to perform these acts, not because of some great entity hanging over their 
shoulder, but by their own free will and directive. 
On T h e  Chronicle of the Black Labyrinth 
The Wyrm has its own guidebook of sorts, a handbook of damnation and 
horror. This simple, slim volume details the history of the Wyrm’s growth and 
corruption, from the fall of Scotland to contemporary degradation. The 
Chronicle of the Black Labyrinth is chock-full of interesting information 
and potential story tools, but rarely used. 
If you’re familiar with Lovecraft, recall to what use he put forbidden tomes 
of knowledge, such as Umwspechlichen Kulten, Cultes des Gouks, the Book of 
E i h  and the most famous of them all, the Necrmicon. When his characters 
encountered such books, it was always a bad sign. Mere possession was suspicious; 
use of the knowledge was the surest indicator of worse to come. Such volumes 
were often produced in fearful ways (written on parchment with strange inks, 
bound in questionable leathers), and always contrasted with their surroundings 
somehow. The recent film The Ninth Gate uses a book very similar to the 
Chronicle, and adds the throat-tightening element of knowledge that is too 
dangerous to know, but which someone is willing to kill for. The Chronicle is cut 
from the same cloth, and it is capable of the same sort of scares - 
be it as a set 
of leather-bound books kept in a locked case although richly illuminated 
medieval manuscripts are left out, or an expensive-looking volume standing out 
among second-hand paperbacks. All of these might be used as potential 
ornaments to increase the creep factor of would-be Fausts. Depending on the 
setting of your chronicle, the book‘s potential as a prop or story hook can grow 
exponentially. Availability of books, literacy rates, a watchful Church and 
changing ideas regarding what is “right” can all place the Chronicle (and anyone 
possessing it for any reason) squarely in the crosshairs of the Wyrm or mortal 
authorities. Consider Europe’s witch-hunts or the witch hysteria ofcolonial New 
England. What would they have done with someone who had this blasphemous 
text as bedside reading? 
The original book is prefaced with an editor’s note from an occult 
publishing company, suggesting that the book was published with little 
knowledge of or belief in its material. The editor seems to think that the book 
is merely sick doggerel on par with something of Crowley’s or The Satanic Bible 
by Anton LaVey. Is he right? Could it be that the text floating on the market 
now is a highly expurgated version (with even fouler cut bits stealthily 
corruptinganothereditorwhohad toreadit), or didsomeone pull afewstrings 
to make sure that the “pure” text is available to the public? 
Garou who possess parts of the text have even greater cause for concern. The 
book is known to be a corrupting influence on all who possess it. However, it is 
also one of the few reliable sources of Wyrm lore. Finding an unexpurgated copy 
may lead to all sorts of trouble. Should it be destroyed as a Wyrm-thing, or should 
it be preserved for its knowledge (distasteful though that knowledge may be)? 
And Garou are not the only ones who may seek out this knowledge or become 
17 


corrupted by it. A curious Qualmi, a Corax who made a bad deal, or even a 
Tremere vampire could all end up with the forbidden text. 
Many Black Spirals believe that the book is largely nonsense or simply some 
half-muddled ravings of their Kinfolk trying to make sense of what they know of 
the Wyrm. Is it? There are rumors that the ruler of Malfeas hunts for every copy 
of the Chronicle he can find, and further, that some dark secret of his is hidden 
within the pages (which is why he makes such an effort). Other Dancers insist 
that the names for Maeljin are incorrect, or that they do not acknowledge these 
names, while others are equally insistent that the Maeljin names are correct, but 
the Urge Wyrms’ names are incorrect. Which is correct, if anything? 
Creative Storytellers can make all sorts of hay with this little book. Those 
with a bit of time on their hands (or trustworthy Narrators with acrafty touch) 
may choose to reprint bits of the text on parchment-colored paper or dress the 
text up so that it looks like something nasty and forbidden. Another idea 
might be to have the text copied onto lined notebook paper as a prop for a 
young would-be sorcerer or Kinfolk who’s going into places he shouldn’t. 
Narrator characters who have gone barking mad from reading the book may 
babble selections of the text. 
Sense Wyrmanb Wyrm-Taint 
Tainting Gaia is the primary function and ultimate goal of any creature of the 
Wyrm. Pentex, the Black Spiral Dancers, fomori- these creatures are only means 
to that end.The Wyrmdoesn’twanttokilleveryGarouonEarth.TheBlackSpira1 
Dancers are proof of that. What it does want to do is warp the natural order to fit 
its own vision, Wyrm-taint is the most direct method and sign of this change. 
The question of how you handle Wyrm-taint in your game will often 
define the tenor of your entire chronicle. Many Storytellers will assume that 
anything over-hyped, insipid or just irritating about modem life is of the 
Wyrm. Conversely, many players will attempt to use Sense Wyrm on abso- 
lutely everything after a while, on the assumption that everyone and everything 
is suspect. While this level of paranoia is suitable for the World of Darkness, 
the constant Mental Challenges can bog agame down, and it makes springing 
surprises on the players that much harder. Likewise, players will have a hard 
time taking the Wyrm seriously as a threat if it randomly taints every brand 
of soda pop, annoying cartoon character or roleplaying game. 
It helps if you use Sense Wyrn as just that - 
a sense, like smell or touch. 
Sense Wyrn rarely gives a clear positive or negative response, like a Geiger 
counter. Rather, it conveys a host of flavors and nuances that can be 
understood only with experience. A person who has merely worked for a week 
at a Wyrm-tainted office building might have an old, flat, stale scent to him, 
while a Nexus Crawler would smell fresh and bloody. The scent changes, too, 
as circumstances permit. A sudden whiff of wet garbage can carry on the 
breeze as a Buzzard flies overhead, only to be gone a moment later. Avoid 
saying simply “yes” or “no” when a player tests for Wyrm-taint. Make use of 
unfamiliar scents or circumstances that give hints. What’s more frightening 
18 


-utter 
silence in a room that’s been locked up for the night’s rest, or a little 
scratching noise that seems to be coming from inside an inkbottle on your 
desk? Tantalizing hints that force the characters to actually work the room 
and root out the source can be agreat way to build suspense. Now they actually 
have to get close to the thing, and they might well need to be in arm’s reach 
of it to find it for certain. 
Some players may want to make a study of these different Wyrm scents. 
After all, if they can catalog all the information that their Gift is giving them, 
they should be able to learn a great deal about their foe. This should also be 
a fine exercise in someone’s madness (preferably not the Storyteller’s). After 
all, every single person in the world has a different scent, and that scent can 
change in a variety of ways, so Wyrm-taint should work the same. Where’s 
that taint coming from - 
eating too much OTolley’s slop, working in an 
office where someone is smoking a Bane-laden pack of Circinus cigarettes or 
being the next-door neighbor of a fomor? Trying to track down the source of 
each scent is going to be very timedconsuming in the Wyrm-laden World of 
Darkness. And what does it say for a pack‘s purity when its members are so 
dead certain that they know the particular scents of some of the Maeljin 
Incama? At best, it brings a Judge of Doom knocking on the door.. .. 
It is worth pointing out that the exact effects of taint on any being aren’t 
defined in the rules. The exact effects of a taint should be up to the Storyteller. 
As a rule of thumb, a “soft” or weak taint carried just through contact or 
association with the Wyrmshould have no immediate in-game effects, A human 
carrying such a taint might be more susceptible to cancer, depression or a host 
of other ailments. Eventually, a human that is tainted long enough will probably 
become a fomori. How long it takes for any given human to succumb is up to you. 
A Garou that is actively tainted by a Bane or even a Maeljin, however, is a 
different story. Such a Garou has been marked as the property of the Wyrm, and 
as such, she could be susceptible to any or all of the following effects. Bear in mind 
that this is just a list of suggestions, not a set of hard-and-fast rules. Feel free to 
add your own effects as you see fit. The effects of Wyrm-taint can and should 
change every time a Garou encounters it. 
The Garou is down two Traits on any Social Challenge against a Bane, 
including challenges relating to such Charms as Possession and Agony. 
The Garou is down two Traits on any attempt to hide from Wyrm- 
creatures. Gifts such as Blissful Ignorance are only partially successful. A 
Wyrm-creature will know that a tainted individual is trying to hide from him 
nearby, but he will not know her exact location. 
For every month that a Wyrm-taint goes untreated, a tainted character 
receives a Negative Social, Mental or Physical Trait of the Storyteller’s 
choosing. This Trait may be bought off normally with experience. 
Spirits of Gaia will refuse to teach Gifts to a tainted Garou. 
Spirit summonings are more likely to bring Banes or other nasty spirits 
rather than Gaia-spirits. 
19 


‘Che Lore of the Wyrm 
Wyrm Lore is one of those skills that should serve as adouble-edged sword 
for characters. On one hand, the Garou are desperate to learn about their 
enemy; on the other, such knowledge may prove to be too muchfor the Garou 
to bear. A Garou should always be wary of learning too much, lest he succumb 
to the Wyrm’s wiles. The Wyrm has been known to take as much interest in 
those who study it, as those who seek the knowledge take interest in it. This 
occasion is truly one in which a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. 
As a rule of thumb, one to three levels of Wym Lore should not be 
dangerous. A Garou should be able to pick up the first level of Wym Lore just 
by fighting the Wyrm and listening to his elders. However, the character is just 
as likely to have incorrect information, and guessing should be hazardous. Levels 
two and three are harder to acquire, but a Garou shouldn’t have to do more than 
1istentotheGalliardstofindoutthedifferenttalesofthe 
Wyrmandtogetasense 
of its powers, and have a few encounters with Wyrm-spirits under his belt. This 
level ofknowledge lets a Garou know about the powers and basic motives of most 
Wyrm-spirits, but it conveys nothing about the greater spirits of the Wyrm, nor 
does it reveal any information about the Far Umbral realms of the Wyrm. Still, 
heknowsenoughnot tomakefoolishemorsaboutbasicmaterial, and may beable 
to form hypotheses based on what he knows. 
Level four requires that the Garou study a Wyrm spirit actively. He needs 
to summon one and question it, or observe it in the wild. An extended 
interview with a fomor may be helpful, although many fomori are ignorant 
regarding some of the intricacies that may be uppermost in the character’s 
mind. A few conversations to wring the information from a Black Spiral 
Dancer somehow is another possibility. (Prof. W. Richard MacLish, also 
knownas Writlish of the Black Spirals, teaches at the University of Edinburgh 
and is usually available for discussions on “scholarly matters.”) Such contact 
is extremely hazardous, and it violates the Litany in any number of ways. At 
the very least, the Garou is no longer fighting the Wyrrn wherever it lives and 
wherever it breeds. At worst, the Garou may have to pay his source for the 
information somehow, and is thereby actively aiding the Wyrm. Many tribes 
will overlook such behavior- the Uktena practically expect their tribemates 
to attempt such things. Other tribes, such as the Get of Fenris or Red Talons, 
will call out anyone who consorts with the Wyrm in such a fashion. No matter 
what an individual Garou thinks of such a student’s quest, he is never fully 
trusted by the Garou Nation again. The Garou seeking knowledge has shown 
that he’s willing to compromise Gaia to further his knowledge. Such an act 
may be forgiven, it cannot be forgotten. 
A Garou with Wym Lore x 4 is always down two Traits in any Social 
Challenges with Garou who know of his reputation as a scholar of the Wyrm. 
Agents of the Wyrm are also likely to know of a character with such knowledge, 
and they will seek to kill him or convert him above all others. On the other hand, 
a Garou with this level of Lore knows the names of the Umbral Realms that 
belong to the Wyrm. He also has a rough idea of what Anchorheads and Wyrm 
20 


caerns are capable of, and he may attempt to take apart an Anchorhead without 
too much difficulty. As the Garou gathers knowledge, he may fiid that his 
further studies allow him to throw out mistaken beliefs and ideas. It should be as 
much about knowing what’s incorrect as well as correct. 
Wym Lore x 5 will shatter most Garou. Such knowledge can only come by 
visiting one of the Realms of the Wyrm. The answers to the darkest questions 
that a Garou might ask are written on the wall of the Abyss, or muttered endlessly 
by a worker within the Scar, or played out in terrible splendor deep within the 
Atrocity Realm. It’s only with this level of knowledge that a Garou can 
determine where an Anchorhead goes without entering it, discern the powers of 
any given Bane on sight, or safely disassemble a Wyrm caern. 
A Garou with five levels of Wym Lore is a prime candidate for a 
derangement of the Storyteller’s choice, plus the other hindrances described 
with level four. Paranoia, obviously, is ideal, but other options exist. Feel free 
to select whatever you feel is appropriate. Such a well-versed student should 
always be fending off petitions and temptations by the Wyrm. She might also 
have other little problems, like other scholars (such as Writlish) leaving 
messages on her answering machine when the sept leader comes by, or being 
recognized by Wyrm-creatures during a fight. 
How to Use Chis wook 
This book is meant to be a primer both for players to learn a little about 
the other side of the fence, and to help Storytellers find ways to use these 
things in their chronicles. Usually the chapters have the general material in 
the front, with the Storyteller section following. Storyteller sections have 
advisories on how to use the material, story seeds and potential resources for 
further information. 
Chapter One: Introduction 
Chapter Two: Cosmology (While every Garou knows the story of the 
Wyrm’s binding, few know that the Wyrm has become a hydra of many foul 
urges.) 
Chapter Three: A Map of Hell (From the Blights to the Hellholes to the 
very duchies of Malfeas - 
the Umbra is no place to get lost.) 
Chapter Four: The Black Spiral Dancers (The fallen White Howlers 
live on as the greatest plague of the Garou.) 
Chapter Five: The Fallen and the Wretched (The Wyrm’s 
many monstrous servants, from fomori, Banes and Wyrm-things to outright 
monsters and fallen shifiers.) 
Chapter Six: Pentex and Subsidiaries (The most outward 
sign of the Wyrm’s corruption, spanning the globe and making a profit while 
they’re at it.) 
Appendix: The Wyrm’s Arsenal (The many tricks in the 
Wyrm’s bag - 
from weapons to poisons to fetishes and talens.) 
21 


I n  the aeginning 
So why is the world in this mess in the first place? No one is sure, and 
that uncertainty continues to fuel debates around the caern-fires. Every 
legend is different, and many elders maintain that the shapeshifters are not 
meant to know. Knowing what exactly happened between the three cosmic 
beings who make up the Triat would surely lead to insanity. 
What is known is that there were three beings in the beginning. The 
Wyld created random energy, spawning endless creativity that had no real 
meaning. The Weaver imposed order on this creation, making forms and 
ideals out of the Wyld's material. The Wyrm balanced all, taking away 
those forms when they had served their purpose. This interplay was 
considered the original cosmic harmony. Then at some point, and no one 
really knows how, the Weaver acquired consciousness and went mad. Did 
she go mad from her awakening, or did she awaken only after going mad? 
Again, no one is sure. Whatever the reason, she started to spin her webs 
wildly, creating form with little of the Wyld behind it. The Wyrm grew to 
keep up and maintain the balance, and when it finished, it found itself with 
far too much power and likewise insane from the effort. The Wyrm was also 
entangled in its own logic. It felt it should destroy itself for taking up so 
much space when its function was fulfilled, yet to do so would leave the 
Wyld and the Weaver without balance. Yet, the Weaver was still out of 
control, so there was no balance. 
23 


Some Garou believe that the Weaver went mad when the Wyrm 
destroyed her creations in the name of Balance. Others think that the 
Weaver overstepped her bounds and sought to entangle everything of the 
Wyld in her webs. Still others maintain that the Weaver went insane when 
she saw that the Wyrm was the final arbiter of destruction on her works, not 
herself. And a few even believe that it’s not the Weaver’s fault - 
she’s just 
trying defend herself from the mad Wyrm that’s trying to destroy the other 
Triatic aspects. Whatever has happened, madness infected the Triat, the 
Triat was aware of itself and its actions, and the three parts that had worked 
together were now at each other’s throats. 
Is order ultimately responsible for today’s chaos?The debate goes on.. .. 
At any rate, the Weaver entangled the Wyrm, and the Wyrm wanted out, 
right then. It struggled and stretched against its prison, but it succeeded only in 
tangling itselffurther. Worse yet, itwas alone in itsstruggles. Without the Wyld, 
it could not create new growth. The Weaver was heedless of the Wyrm’s 
thrashing, except perhaps as “some little disorder over there,” and it promptly 
put more web on the problem. The Wyrm- alone, without purpose, confined, 
confused - 
reached out for anything that could help. 
The ‘Zriatic Wyrm 
When the Wyrm was first confined, it tried to figure out what went 
wrong by reenacting a little psychodrama inside its head, creating the 
Weaver, the Wyld and itself from aspects of its own personality. Unfor- 
tunately, between the madness it endured from confinement, these three 
personas developed their own intelligence, and have become the Wyrm’s 
dominant personae in its “multiple-personality disorder.” Each has its 
own motivations, goals and drives, and that is fortunate for the world. 
Should these aspects (called the Triatic Wyrm) choose to unite, their 
power could rival Gaia. 
Mostly, these heads of the hydra stay in Malfeas. Should one decide to 
travel, it takes an enormous amount of spiritual energy for it to manifest in 
another realm. Even worse, it becomes acreature of immense power, and it takes 
just as much energy, if not more, to send it back. The last time this happened, 
Eater-of-Souls attempted to settle on Earth, and the Croatan tribe responded 
with their legendary sacrifice, driving the beast from Gaia. This (as far as anyone 
knows) is the only time that such a creature has been able to manifest on Gaia. 
More commonly, the Triatic heads have been encountered in 
dreams and visions, or on trips to the more easily corrupted Deep 
Umbral realms. The appearance of one of these monsters is tantamount 
to the appearance of a Celestine, with all the awe and horror that that 
sort of encounter should inspire. 
Weast-o {-War 
Beast-of-War is the Wyld aspect of the Wyrm’s personality. It is raw 
power gone completely berserk, without form or direction. There is no 
24 


clearing-away the old to make room for the new - 
this is only destruc- 
tion for its own sake. Here the Wyrm rages against its confinement. Its 
reaction is primal, but it has grown from a lust for destruction into wrath 
incarnate. 
yrm, has a much greater 
Humanity has known it for 
o rivalry or bloodlust that 
attle. The vampires call 
us hold on humanity. The 
ers their spiritual growth, 
. The Get of Fenris call 
at the World Tree to bring 
The Maeljin called the Hellbringer carries the Beast-of-War’s standard, 
Beast-of-War, also c 
a long time as healthy co 
makes no distinction be 
it the Beast, that which ea 
Garou see it in their Rage, 
it Jormungandr, the Serpent 
everything down. 
spreading chaos and calamity across the realms. 
Eater-of-Souls 
This head of the hydra refl 
eaver’s own madness. The Weaver 
find meaning in her work. For 
e everything that crosses its 
with its loss of purpose. It 
n to acquire something 
to fill a spiritual void. It 
consume life force and 
ssessed by Eater-of-Souls usually 
The Maeljin Thurifuge serves Eater-of-Souls, seeking some way for it to 
attempted to bind everythi 
the Wyrm, this drive bec 
path, trying to fill the v 
manifests in mortals as 
(wealth, material goods, 
can also manifest as physica 
parts of the body to sustain it 
find themselves prey to both 
manifest on Gaia again. 
of itself, filled with self- 
maintained is now 
es corruption of the soul. 
s and forgets personal 
ntrol, and it is using this head 
aspects. It is a tempter 
th false promises until 
e Wyrm’s coils. It needs no Maeljin 
remember it as the 
loathing at its failure. 
reduced to stagnation, t 
A victim of the Defile 
The Defiler is the most powe 
serpent of Eden. 
C h e  Urge W y r m s  
The Wyrm’s imprisonment has driven it to extremes, and its madness 
has become so profound that it cannot contain its agonized emotions within 
25 


itself. Mortals deal with this kind of pain by losing consciousness or killing 
themselves, but the Wyrm has no such options. Its pain, fear and desperation 
for release was fed by its panic, until its wild thoughts developed into 
separate entities, known as the Urge Wyrms. 
The Urge Wyrms are natural survival traits and feelings that have grown 
far beyond their original boundaries. Each began as a natural reaction to fear or 
confinement, but in the mind of a supernatural entity, they grew and took on 
autonomy. Such emotions eventually fade in humans when reinforcement is 
not continuous, but those touched by an Urge continue to hold onto and feed 
that emotion, even after whatever caused it has disappeared. The emotion 
builds until it overshadows everything else in the psyche, giving the Urge a 
greater hold on its victim, until possession is complete. Some believe that the 
Maeljin are an example of such total possession. 
The Urges are the most likely Wyrm entities that will be encoun- 
tered anywhere in the Tellurian. They go where there are sentient 
creatures with emotions (with the exception of a few Epiphs). As beings 
of pure, raw emotion, they are too difficult to comprehend in a rational 
manner. They can only be encountered in the dark spots in one’s own 
heart, and even then, they are little different from normal emotions. 
Their touch is insidious, invisible and many times, too subtle to be 
recognized as an alien intrusion. 
The names of the Urges were given to them long ago by the Black Spiral 
Dancers, so they are most likely corruptions of Pictish words. No one knows 
if the Urges acknowledge or respond to these names. 
rt-he Waeljin Jncarna 
The Urge Wyrms, as entities of pure feeling, can never manifest physically. 
They need emotions and sentient minds to act through, and sometimes, they 
need servants to take up their banners in the realms. While possessed mortals 
can be useful, occasionally a more dedicated servant is needed. This is where 
the Maeljin Incarna come in. The Maeljin were once mortals, yet they became 
so thoroughly corrupted by a particular Urge that they were transformed into 
powerful spirits that embodied that Urge. Each serves his patron until he fails 
in some way, or until a newer and more powerful candidate floats to the top. The 
Maeljin act as the eyes, ears, voices and occasionally hands of the Urges 
whenever more direct action is necessary. Mortals who know of the Wyrm and 
wish to pledge themselves to its service must approach it through a Maeljin. A 
number of cults form around such servitude. 
Black Spiral Dancers refuse to traffic with the Maeljin, whom they see 
as more interested in their own politics than serving their master. The senior 
Pentex board has such close relations with the Urges themselves and the 
Triatic Wyrrn that they need no intercessors. The Maeljin, for their part, see 
the Pentex Board of Directors as a threat to their own positions, so they seek 
to discredit the board members in the eyes of the Wyrm. Few like to consider 
what would happen if the Maeljin got bored.. . . 
26 


Foebok, Urge of Fear 
Fear has been called the oldest and strongest emotion of humans. 
Therefore, it makes sense that the Urge of Fear was the first to emerge. This 
Urge Wyrm was believed to have come about when the Wyrm first realized 
its predicament. When confronted with a threat, any creature’s natural first 
reaction is fear, giving rise to the fight-or-flight instinct. Foebok, however, 
is about the irrational, groundless fear that feeds on itself, which can gnaw 
steadily away at the psyche. The holes created by fear lead the way for other 
Urges, such as hatred, to enter. Those possessed by Foebok must instill fear 
so that their master can feed, and those with only his light touch are often 
gripped with fear, even when no obvious threat is present. This Urge needs 
no Maeljin, as fear is found at the sub-conscious level of every sentient 
creature. Black Spiral Dancers call upon Hakaken, “The Heart of Fear,” 
when they wish to petition Foebok. 
Vorus, Urge of Greeb 
This Urge grew from the Wyrm’s desperate wish to have everything 
back the way it was, and from the way it grasped at anything in reach in order 
to make it so. Vorus inflames the natural desire to acquire necessities for life, 
turning it into unnatural avarice and the need to hoard resources. Those 
possessed often compare how much they’ve hoarded, even with each other 
(leading to contests), and they take pleasure in depriving others of even the 
least amount they need to survive. Needless to say, the 20th century has 
been a jubilee for Vorus, especially in America. A culture of conspicuous 
consumption and materialism, intertwined Greed and Desire, has instilled 
unnecessary wants and desires in the populace. Such a culture can destroy 
itself more handily than all the Banes in the Tellurian might. 
No Maeljin serves this Urge. Apparently, Vorus either needs no help, 
or it refuses to share even the least bit of its power with another. 
Wahsstrac, Urge of Power 
This Urge is believed to be the youngest of the Urge Wyrms, but it 
is also the most highly evolved. It was created out of the bound Wyrm’s 
discovery that it could do nothing during its imprisonment except 
manipulate lesser creatures into doing its work. This Urge encourages 
the notions of control and manipulation as being the end-goal, rather 
than a means to an end. It seeks potential targets in natural hierarchies 
of authority, and it encourages its target to seek only dominance over 
all. Those who are touched by the Urge soon focus on directing and 
controlling others, while those who are fully corrupted by it become 
dictators and tyrants of the worst sort. In both cases, the target loses 
sight of his original goal that power would assist, and he reacts violently 
against any perceived challenge to his authority. 
This Urge has no Maeljin servant, requiring no servitor to further its 
interests. Most Wyrm creatures serve it unconsciously. The Green Dragon 
21 
7/--- 
-7 


totem, “Destroyer of Life and Crusher of Enemies,” is the intercessor 
between the Black Spiral Dancers and Mahsstrac. 
Karnala, Urge of mesire 
The Wyrm’s desire for freedom above all else created Karnala. Indeed, 
when the Wyrm’s desire eclipsed all others, the Urge was bom and it 
attained the freedom that the Wyrm did not have. This Urge is the 
consuming desire that focuses upon anything to obsession. 
Kamala feeds on its own actions, so the fulfillment of its yearnings 
would be its undoing. Instead, its attention roves constantly, seeking out 
new objects of attachment or choosing things that it knows it can never 
attain. This desire goes beyond simple wishful thinking or the natural desire 
for necessities of any kind. Kamala’s targets can think only of their own 
gratification, to the detriment of other things. As the Urge acquires agreater 
hold on the target, the line between possession of the desired and actual 
fulfillment blurs and leaves a spiritual void that Kamala simply fills with 
more desire. 
Empress Aliara - 
Countess Desire 
The Maeljin of Kamala is believed to have been a courtesan during the 
reign of Caliph Haroun al-Raschid. Empress Aliara is said to understand the 
workings of the heart better than any psychologist, and she has an uncanny 
instinct for a person’s lusts and weaknesses. Given enough time, she can 
incite reckless obsession with a few words and seductive promises. Most call 
the Countess Desire female, although “she” looks more androgynous. By a 
few changes in her posture and body language, she can create whatever her 
target most desires in life - 
from a devoted child to a nurturing parent to 
a charming lover. 
Abhorra, Urge of Hatreb 
Abhorra grew from the Wyrm’s overwhelming resentment and hate 
- 
hatred of the Pattern that bound him, of the Weaver’s insanity, of the 
Wyld’s inability to prevent the event, of the creation it was excluded from 
and, most of all, itself for failure. The Urge burst free as the root of 
malevolence, the internal self-loathing that manifests outwardly against 
external things. Mortals touched by this Urge become repelled by a person, 
a group of people, certain situations and even objects that remind them of 
something about themselves that they hate. As Abhorra’s urge grows, its 
targets go out of their way to antagonize those whom they despise, and they 
become more aggressive in turn when their targets respond to this 
violence. Complete possession results in a hatred that encompasses the 
entire world, unable to take pleasure inanything, except nursing their cold 
bitter resentment. 
Lord Steel - 
Duke of Hate 
This Maeljin was said to have been a conquistador who sacked the 
native civilizations of Central and South America. Supposedly, he loathed 
28 


not only the natives, but the actions of his own soldiers as well. The 
following centuries have seen Steel grow strong indeed from racism, anti- 
Semitism, misogyny and even ordinary people who get suspicious of their 
neighbors. He commands a following of devotees who raise offerings of burnt 
flesh to him. He cares little for the petty interactions of the other Maeljin, 
content (if it can be called that) to hold his throne, nurse his hatred and wait 
for times of war. When he rides forth, his cloak is a cloud of Banes, his 
serrated sword glimmers with balefire, and gunmetal shapes his armor. The 
totem Incarna Pegasus is his steadfast foe. 
Angu, Urge of Cruelty 
This Urge is believed to have come into being later than the rest, 
possibly spawned from Abhorra. Supposedly, when the bound Wyrm first 
attempted to communicate its state of imprisonment and pain, it found that 
the other creatures of the universe could not understand unless it gave them 
some taste of what it was experiencing. Some took their lessons better than 
others, and the Urge of Cruelty developed from these sessions of inflicting 
pain. Angu manifests the drive to do nothing but inflict hurt and pain 
indiscriminately, all for the joy of watching suffering. This Urge works in 
subtle, insidious ways, taking aim at its victims’ small lapses in compassion 
and feeding the urge to harm others in small ways with disrespect, neglect 
or disinterest. Such lapses often feed Abhorra, as that Urge adds “justifica- 
tion” for dispensing cruelty to a particular person, group or object (and 
further adds fuel to the fire by trying to work its will on the persecuted, 
encouraging them to hate their tormentor). Those possessed by Angu learn 
to act with deliberate malice, causing pain in a variety of ways, from physical 
to emotional, from abuse to outright torture. Some believe that Angu’s 
existence is a sign that the Wyrm is beyond redemption. 
Lady Aife - 
Caliph of Pain 
It is whispered that the Caliph of Pain was once one of the most ardent 
torturers in the Spanish Inquisition, and she has taken to her post as a 
Maeljin with great enthusiasm. Her interest in her victims is most 
frightening because it is the interest of a skilled professional who does a job 
very well, not the clumsy cruelty of one with an emotional stake in the 
issue. Not only skilled in inflicting physical pain, she frequently consults 
with Empress Aliara to determine a victim’s psychological weaknesses, 
and nothing is sacred to her. When Lady Aife shakes her long red hair, 
glass shards rain from it, and her favorite weapons are two glass whips that 
splinter on contact with a victim’s flesh. 
Wa’ashkai, Urge of Violence 
This Urge came from the Wyrm’s maddening, futile struggle against the 
Web that imprisoned it. Ba’ashkai is considered one of the most basic and 
mindless of the Urges, born from the drive to continue a fight even after the 
futility of the matter is proven or the goal is achieved. Those who fight for 
29 


-l/// 
& 
anything - 
survival, self-preservation, protecting something, respect - 
have felt this one’s seduction to continue the struggle. More importantly, 
Ba’ashkai’s touch clouds judgment and causes its victims to not consider the 
consequences of their actions, especially extreme ones. While Ba’ashkai has 
little power to possess one who can reject its influence, the other Urges’ 
activity can provoke circumstances that can lead to its entrance. 
The Hellbringer - 
Chieftain of Rage, General of the Armies of the 
Wyrm, Patron of Abuse 
This Maeljin is the servant of the Beast-of-War and Ba’ashkai. He 
thrives on brutality of all kinds - 
abuse, rape, rioting, bloodshed of any 
kind - 
and the world has given him much to feed on. So devoted is he to 
his cause that he has split himself into two personalities- the Hellbringer 
and Malik Harjaq, Master of Strife. This split has not diminished his 
powers in the least; indeed, both personalities seem to possess the full 
powers of an Incarna. The Hellbringer is believed to be Gilles de Rais, the 
notorious “Bluebeard” of medieval times; Nephandi mages still revere his 
memory. He is said to wear thorny armor crowned with antlers, riding in 
a cavalry of foul beasts and Banes. His preferred weapon is a crossbow with 
quarrels that drive others into bloodthirsty, berserk fits. Malik Harjaqrides 
as a Viking warrior with multiple arms, each arm bearing a different 
bloodstained weapon. Neither has ever been defeated in combat, and 
when they ride, carnage follows. 
Khaaloobh, Urge of Consumption 
Khaaloobh is only vaguely understood, if at all, and many have 
doubted its existence. As the Wyrm thrashed and writhed in its bonds, 
distorting the Web but not breaking it, this Urge was created from the act. 
The Pattern may not be broken, but it can be distorted beyond recogni. 
tion. The Urge’s touch is difficult to discern, as it can invade on any level, 
breaking down the body, the intellect, the will or emotions (possibly 
opening the way for other Urges). Even the Wyrm’s minions are affected 
by Khaaloobh, leading some to believe that Khaaloobh may be a manifes- 
tation of the original Wyrm of Balance. The Black Spiral Dancers revere 
the Dark Fungus as its messenger. 
Knight Entropy - 
The Wyrm’s Spawn 
Legends claim that Knight Entropy was a Crusader in his breathing days, 
one who made the rivers of the Holy Land run with blood for no better reason 
than his own indulgence. As a Maeljin, Knight Entropy exists solely to 
destroy -his gaze brings rot, his touch reduces anyone or anything to dust. 
It is guided by neither bloodlust nor sadism, but works as a herald of the chaos 
of destruction, not change. It does not interact with its fellow Maeljin, and 
even they know little about it. It appears as a feral human knight bearing a 
shield that shows the Great Dragon encircling and strangling the world. On 
the rare occasions when it does speak, none can fully recall its voice or the 
words it said. 
30 


@seuhk, Urge of Lies 
This Urge sprang fully formed, like Athena from Zeus, when the Wyrm 
attempted to deny the fact of its imprisonment. Pseulak easily walks among 
the confusing twists and turns of enigma and paradox created by the 
Weaver’s mad Pattern. Some believe that this Urge could not exist without 
the Pattern, without something to deny or bend, perhaps accounting for its 
amazing freedom. Deception is natural for survival, to lure prey and elude 
predators. Entertaining falsehoods such as myths, teaching stories and other 
fictions can communicate truth to the perceptive. Pseulak, however, teaches 
those it touches to find it easy and convenient to lie whenever the need (real 
or imagined) arises. The best liars weave elaborate webs of hypocrisy, and 
their corruption is complete when they can successfully lie to themselves 
and believe it. The Dancers appeal to Kirijama, “The Hidden Foe,” when 
they wish to call on Pseulak‘s aid. 
The Honorable Maine duBois, Esq. - 
Corruption’s Advocate, 
Chamberlain of Lies 
None are certain why this Maeljin bears this 20th-century moniker, 
when it is well-known that he was a corrupt statesman during the time 
of Confucius. He frequently appears in a well-slimed, tattered suit, 
followed by a storm of papers and papyri, and his unnaturally broad grin 
hides a forked tongue. He is known as the best liar in all the Tellurian, 
and if he could muffle his foul nature, many believe that he could 
convince the Garou that Gaia had abandoned them. Rather than 
interact directly in the Wyrm’s affairs, he prefers catspaws to do his work. 
His favorite pastime is interfering with mortal politics. 
Sykora, Urge of paranoia 
The Urge of Paranoia came to be when the Wyrm first realized that 
it was losing touch with creation due to its imprisonment and believed 
that the world had turned against it. This Urge is found in the mental 
confusion that results when the mind cannot reconcile its perceptions of 
how things should be compared to how things truly are. In this disso- 
nance, it builds elaborate constructs to explain matters, which cannot be 
shaken by real experiences or reasoning. Those touched by this Urge 
withdraw into themselves, unable to have meaningful contact with 
people due to their own clashing thoughts. Some project this struggle 
outward, declaring those who do not believe them to be the enemy (and 
their perceived enemies are many indeed). The Whippoorwill’s cry 
conveys the Black Spiral Dancers’ petitions to Sykora. 
Doge Klypse - 
Archbishop of Madness 
The Maeljin of Sykora is said to have been the leader of a cult of mystic 
fanatics during the early Islamic Empire. Little is known about how he rose 
to prominence with Sykora, but it cannot be pleasant. He prefers to appear 
when he is least expected, in the unlikeliest places, when his target’s back 
31 


is turned. He resembles a clergyman, short and pudgy, with a round hairless 
head and eyes that mirror his inner storms. His black robes are shot with 
writhing purple threads, and he forces all to kiss his ring, a purple tumorlike 
growth covered with pulsing blue veins - 
the kiss grants only madness. As 
the avatar of the Wyrm’s sense of betrayal by creation, Klypse expresses this 
feeling by defacing the world, especially its living creatures. He enjoys 
torturing and mutilating random victims plucked from the Umbra, from the 
streets of Malfeas or even captured by his Banes. The luckiest die quickly, 
while the rest live on as the Doge’s playthings and servants. 
Gree, Urge of mespair 
This Urge is believed to have formed when the Wyrm had tried and 
exhausted every means of escape and lost hope of ever regaining freedom. Gree 
is aided by the other Urges, with their violence, corruption and loss, and it works 
to destroy its targets’ drive to act, learn from mistakes or just pick up and go on 
with life. Over time, those touched by Gree give up easily upon a first failure, 
and their personalities are slowly eclipsed by the Urge’s whispers of a sense of 
failure and worthlessness. They become fatalistic, given to doom-saying and 
cynicism, which produces a counterproductivity that only deepens Gree’s hold 
on them. Eventually, the targets’ very will to live is obliterated, and they either 
die of self-neglect or suicide. More insidiously, Gree uses such deaths to its 
advantage, to gain a foothold in the hearts of its targets’ loved ones. The Bat is 
the Black Spiral Dancers’ totem of Despair. 
The Nameless Angel of Despair 
This Maeljin is the patron of suicides, appearing to those on the brink 
to encourage them to make the final step. It seems to have the ability to 
appear in many places at once, and it seems strangely (even for an Incama) 
in tune with those who are teetering. The Angel stays removed from any 
politics of Malfeas, and the other Maeljin do not court its favor. It is said to 
appear clad in gray robes and masked in a cold, dark cloud, never speaking 
but for the wave upon wave of negative emotion that emanates from it. 
Rumor has it that the Angel is not a single person, but an office maintained 
by suicides, no doubt selected by Gree personally. 
Lethargg, Urge of Apathy 
This Urge is almost a “child” of Gree, representing a different path for 
the wounded heart. Rather than becoming consumed with pain, self- 
loathing and loss, those affected by Lethargg simply cease to care about 
anything- their losses, their feelings, the troubles of others, their role in life. 
They become unsympathetic, uninvolved and distant from their emotions. 
Full possession results in a complete dissociation with reality, a kind of 
suicide whereby the victims don’t even care about their own well-being, 
resulting in autism, catatonia or neglect. This Urge is frequently underesti- 
mated by others, as many forget that evil becomes even worse when no one 
takes any action against it. 
32 


Thurifuge - 
Master of Stagnation, Lord of Disease 
Rumor has it that a filmmaker who arrived in Kuwait after the Gulf 
War caught sight of this Incarna and his Banes frolicking on the coast. A 
bringer of plague and water pollution, Thurifuge offers his loyalty to both 
Lethargg and directly to Eater-of-Souls, working hard to continue Eater- 
of-Souls’ work since that Wyrm was driven off Gaia by the Croatan 
sacrifice. He is said to enjoy moderately good relations with the Mistress 
of Toxins. The latest Lord of Disease is said to have been a Nazi death- 
camp surgeon during his breathing days, conducting hideous experiments 
on his captives in the camps and South America for no other reason than 
lack of spirit. These days find Thurifuge very busy, and he promotes 
desensitization, isolation and procrastination with morbidly good humor. 
He resembles a tall, lean man with corpselike skin and an unsettling grin, 
usually manifesting from a pool of slime. 
(2314 &lementa1 Wyrms 
The Elemental Wyrms are the corrupted counterparts of the natural 
elements that make up the world. Students of tainted metaphysics believe 
that the Elemental Wyrms began as excretions of the primordial Wyrm as 
it constricted and thrashed in its prison. Not only do they have physical 
presences in the world, they frequently have some connection to the mind. 
They are considered to be Maeljin, but they exist primarily to be used by the 
Urge Wyrms. No one knows if the Elemental Wyrms were ever once human 
or how their ranks are replenished. 
Hoga, Lssence of Smog 
Hoga represents corrupted air, the gaseous parts of the Wyrm’s body 
and its capacity to think and reason. It manifests on Gaia as noxious 
exhaust fumes from cars, factories or burning toxins. Contact with this 
elemental is difficult, as few creatures can breathe its vapors, and those 
who spend time in its presence suffer from breathing problems and 
difficulty maintaining a train of thought. 
Lord Choke - 
Master of Smog 
The Master of Smog loves depriving his victims of fresh air almost as 
much as depriving them of their freedom. Rush-hour traffic and fuel fires 
that fill the air with choking fumes are his delight. A cloud of sickly sweet 
smoke follows him wherever he travels, numbing targets’ senses and reason, 
muffling his bulbous body and making his true shape difficult to discern. He 
prefers offerings of organs, especially brains and lungs, and he targets these 
organs when he touches mortals. 
Furmas, Lssence of @alefire 
Furmas formed from the Wyrm’s blood, representing its intuition and 
driving will and the perversion of natural fire. Balefire does not bum like 
33 
I 
I , 
% 
i 


normal fire. Instead, it warps what it touches, and is found deep in the earth 
in pockets of natural geothermal energy that were corrupted by the Wyrm 
millennia ago. Balefire afflicts its targets with diseases of the blood and heart, 
and it causes their minds to be filled with wild delirium that prevents them 
from concentrating for too long. 
Lord Kerne - 
Master of Hellfire 
This Maeljin appears as a painfully thin man with boiling lava for 
flesh and atomic fire for breath. He travels via a great chariot of blazing 
hellfire that pours sulphurous black smoke out behind it. Kerne danced 
in the heart of the atom bomb’s first explosion, and ever since, he has 
been a creature of radiation and fire. If he could work his will, every 
reactor in the land would melt down and wash Gaia in a tidal wave of 
poisonous fire. 
H’rugg, Lssence of Slubge 
H’rugg is earth‘s warped counterpart, created from the solid parts of the 
Wyrm and its fecal matter and representing physical sensation and percep- 
tions. Sludge’s touch is corrosive, and its direct touch reduces a thing or 
person to more sludge. A more diluted form results in targets becoming 
intractable and hard-headed to the point of denying the physical reality of 
their senses. Further, their bodies are also wracked with digestive ailments 
that are usually painful and always embarrassing. 
Lord Collum - 
Master of Sludge 
The Master of Sludge is a Maeljin of raw sewage whose foul touch 
extends through the sewers of every city across the world (and in some 
cities, he is quite powerful indeed). His noisome fingers have even brushed 
sewer inhabitants, including the Ratkin and Nosferatu. Often the consort 
of Lady Yul, he has been known to fertilize her eggs and adopt some of her 
fouler children, as well as work with her to contaminate drinking water 
with his element if a nasty disease could be the result. His form is not for 
the weak of stomach, for it is a humanoid shape of raw sewage with a 
nauseating stench. 
Wakshaa, Lssence of Toxin 
When the liquid parts of the Wyrm sprayed out between the 
bindings of the Web, Wakshaa was formed. As the mockery of water, it 
is associated with the Wyrm’s emotions. It finds its way to earth in the 
form of corrupt scientific by-products, especially street drugs that dam- 
age the body’s natural chemistry. Those damaged by these toxins become 
unusually antagonistic to anyone they encounter and often become 
unknowing plague dogs for virulent infections. 
Lady Yul - 
Mistress of Toxins 
This Maeljin is master of every toxin known, from drugs to poisons 
to acids and even some diseases. Her amazing knowledge of biochemistry 
34 


and genetics would shame any university professor, and with enough 
time and opportunity, she can alter a living thing’s body chemistry 
(making it able to breathe water or methane instead of air, for instance) 
or create new “creatures” for her fellow Maeljin. Lady Yul is perpetually 
pregnant with poisonous litters, which she births and releases, then 
begins with another. Thurifuge and Aliara are her closest allies, except- 
ing the other Elemental Wyrms. 


I 


The Wyrm has many, many faces in the World of Darkness. Sometimes 
it appears as Pentex, sometimes it shows itself through the Black Spiral 
Dancers. No matter what face it wears, though, it always uses the same tools 
and tactics. The Wyrmseeks to change the world in its own image. Its ultimate 
goal is to corrupt creation until it is indistinguishable from its own home, 
Malfeas. In this section, we’ll take a deeper look at the nitty-gritty of the 
Wyrm- the taint that it uses to change things, the battlefields on Gaia where 
the Wyrm is winning the war and the distant shores of the Umbra that the 
Wyrm has already conquered. 
The dattlefielbs 
Ninety percent of your werewolf game is going to revolve around Wyrm- 
tainted places. The places are loosely categorized as Blights and Hellholes. 
Occasionally, the Wyrm will create a nastier place where it can accumulate real 
power, suchas anAnchorheadorevenacaemofitsown.Yourplayerswil1devote 
themajorityoftheirtimeandefforttoward 
trying tocleanse these placesfor good. 
Your job as a Storyteller is to make this process as challenging as possible without 
completely overwhelming the players. The Wyrm has a vast amount of power 
behind it, but if you toss the entire menagerie of Banes at characters during the 
first game, the player’s won’t want to return for the second. 
How tough do you want to make an encounter with the Wyrm? There’s 
an art to determining the strength of any encounter with the Garou’s ancient 
foe. No encounter should be so tough that the characters have no chance of 
survival at all. Even if the characters have stumbled across the heart of 
Malfeas, they should at least have the opportunity to discover their mistake 
and run. On the other hand, every encounter with the Wyrm should be 
37 


- d ! ! / / / / C .  
dangerous. The Dotential for serious harm is always present whenever the 
- 
.
-
 
Wyrm is near. Finding a point between those two extremes is a skill that takes 
judgment and practice. 
An ideal encounter with the Wyrrn should challenge the players’ 
characters on multiple levels. Characters shouldn’t just fight the Wyrm with 
their teeth and claws. They should have to use their eyes, their noses, their 
instincts and their brains in order to prevail. If every encounter with the 
Wyrm is just a straight-up fight, then everyone but the Ahrouns will get bored. 
Every Wyrm encounter should scare the players in some fashion as well. 
Werewolf is meant to be a horror game at heart, after all, and even elders 
should occasionally see a face of the Wyrm that gives them pause. As always, 
keep the maturity level of your players in mind, and know when to back off. 
It might be fun to completely freak out a player at times, but if you go too far, 
that player won’t come back to the game. 
Last, pay attention to what your players are asking for. Some players will 
profess a hard-core attitude toward game conflicts. The tougher it is, the 
better they like it. They want to feel like they’ve beaten the odds when they’ve 
taken on the Wyrm and survived. Newer players may still be finding their feet 
and need to work their way up to the hard conflicts, though. Scale your 
encounters accordingly. Remember, battling for Gaia should always feel 
dangerous, even if you’ve got something less than that on the menu. 
Above all, keep your Wyrrn encounters unpredictable. The Wyrm never 
fights the same way twice, and it never does exactly what the Garou expect. 
Neither should you. 
&lights 
A Blight is any place where human misery has destroyed the hope of Gaia. 
Housing projects are always prime sites for Blights, as are good old-fashioned 
slums. Not all Blights are urban war zones, however. Strip clubs, corporate 
boardrooms and soulless trailer parks can all house the Wyrm. Many Garou 
feel that all major cities are one big Blight, and to a certain extent, they’re 
right. Blights are extremely common in the cities of the World of Darkness. 
They don’t just occur at random, though. Every Blight exists for a specific 
reason, and it serves the needs of the Wyrm in a specific way. 
Before you put a major Blight into your game, answer these questions: 
Where is the Blight in the real world? The biggest Blights tend to be slums 
or housing projects in major cities, but you don’t have to follow this 
stereotype. Try using a sleazy bar or an abandoned factory or even City Hall. 
You need to keep the maturity level of your players in mind when you choose 
your site, however. Don’t set a Blight in a strip club if your players will giggle 
and do immature things when their characters visit such a place. Dealing with 
the Wyrm often revolves around handling mature themes. Make sure that 
your players are mature enough to handle those themes before you use them. 
Why does this Blight exist? Ninety percent of Blights simply exist because 
Banes frequent the area. Blights are their hunting grounds and their dens. These 
38 


Blights are dangerous, but not inherently sinister. These kinds of Blights are good 
for quick Wyrm-hunting expeditions or for smaller plot lines that individual 
players indulge in. You should probably come up with some basic details for these 
sites, such as location and Wyrm creatures in residence. Every once in a while, 
a group of players will come up to you itching to hunt the Wyrm on a whim. 
Having a site like this on tap can help keep these players occupied. 
It’s those 10 percent of Blights that do exist for a specific purpose that you 
want to devote the bulk of your attention to. However, the truly terrible 
monsters live in these places. Blights serve as more than just watering holes 
for Wyrm-creatures. They are places of power for the Wyrm. Here, a strong 
r from Malfeas, or even build a 
mbra. The most horrific Banes in 
eling power for their master. A 
frequent major Blights such as thi 
story, and they should be as 
What Wynn creatures lio 
bat. Garou visiting these 
high levels of the Stealth Abil 
convince the Garou that t 
characters looking for 
ill equipped to cope wi 
e at the Garou using their 
, and they will try to 
characters will kill 
re-establish itself not long after the Garou pack up and go home. Blights don’t 
always give rise to slums, but slums often create Blights. The negative energy 
that such places create will re-attract taint and Banes unless the Garou change 
things. Blights need to be cleansed in the real world as well as the Umbra. 
Sometimes it only takes something as small as starting a neighborhood watch 
in the community or turning a vacant lot into a park, but if the Garou only 
deal with the effects of the Wyrm in the Umbra while ignoring the real world, 
they will have missed half of the equation. An effective hunter of the Wyrm 
fights in both realms at once. 
Hellholes 
A Hellhole is a place of the Wyrm that has been tainted through physical 
corruption instead of spiritual corruption. A toxic-waste dump is the classic 
39 


Hellhole, but there’s no need to stick solely with the stereotype. A Hellhole 
can be anything from abandoned parking lots to kudzu patches. Hellholes are 
less common than Blights in most Garou games, simply because they’re less 
common in the real world. Environmentalist groups continue to fight to keep 
our world clean, and while things are not perfect, they are nowhere near as bad 
as they could be. Garou games, however, are set in the World of Darkness 
where the Apocalypse is just around the comer, and things are as bad as they 
could be. Every major forest hides some small illegal dumping ground; every 
great river has a taint lurking just beneath its surface. The Garou believe that 
the Wyrm on the natural places 
you insert a Hellhole into your 
of the war against the Wyrm. 
er side asks for quarter. 
game, it should always serve 
Here is where the war truly 
If your game revolves aro 
” syndrome. The characters 
Wyrm threatens the p 
the caern weakens. If t 
An abandoned farmhouse mi 
ane that is spying deep in 
Hellhole doesn’t even 
attacks, affinity defenses, and any other physically oriented Charms that hurt 
Garou are the order of the day. Remember, though, that the Wyrm is always 
willing to use under-handed tactics when it can. Spirits may often use Charms 
to steal Rage or Gnosis. Alternatively, they may use the Charm Blight to mark 
a Garou and follow him back to his caem. It may be very tempting to give a 
major Bane the Charm Break Reality. This Charm can absolutely devastate a 
solitary Garou, and it can turn the tide of battle. However, it is extremely 
costly in terms of Essence. Be sure not to use this Charm so often that your 
major foe for the evening self-destructs in a buff of Gnosis. If nothing else, it 
tends to be a bit anticlimactic for the players. 
40 


Like Blights, Hellholes tend to form naturally from human activities. 
The Wyrm doesn’t plan them, but it takes full advantage of them. Characters 
will have to work at cleaning up these sites in the real world to have any long- 
term impact on such a place. The Rite of Ckansing alone is even less effective 
at destroying a Hellhole than a Blight; Gaia will have nothing to do with such 
a polluted place, and the Wyrm is all to happy to fill the vacuum that her 
absence creates. To get the site truly clean will require real work in the 
physical realm. If the Garou can’t clean the place themselves, they may have 
to rely on Kinfolk, local authorities or private citizens to clean up the mess and 
restore the Hellhole to its natural state. 
Anchor heabs 
Anchorheads need to be very, very rare in your game. One is easily enough. 
Contact with the Far Realms of the Umbra should be rare and dangerous if the 
Umbra is to retain its sense of wonder. If an Anchorhead makes that access 
a convenient Anchorhead into the 
en you need a convenient shortcut 
to the Scar for a story, but in the 
comes to the Far Realms, getting 
source for the Wyrm. 
the past, and Nexus 
Pentex has definit 
renown). Just remember, nothing is ever easy or straightforward when it 
comes to the Wyrm. 
If you do end up using an Anchorhead as a focus for a chronicle, you’ll 
need to sit down and plan out how the Wyrm defends it prize. In general, the 
advice given for Blights and Hellholes holds true here as well. You’ll need to 
turn the volume up, though. Things should be a lot more dangerous at an 
Anchorhead than a Blight. Remember, the portal, the defenders and the 
physical location of an Anchorhead site all need to make sense together. 
Spirits of rage should live at a housing project that leads to the Atrocity 
Realm; Toxic spirits reside at a Hellhole that leads to the Scar. Don’t design 
your haunted house just to be dangerous. Make it make sense as well. 
Wyrm Caerns 
Taking out a caern that is dedicated to the Wyrm can be the ultimate 
prize in your game - 
the big mountain to climb, the climax to your chronicle. 
You should make every effort to make the assault as eventful and unique for 
your players as possible. Remember, a Spirals’ caern is just as powerful as the 
41 


sept’s caem, and the Garou that reside there are just as smart, tough and 
dangerous as your players’ characters. The opposition that your players run 
into should be a bigger challenge than any other conflict that the players have 
encountered thus far in the story. Win, lose or draw, they should talk about 
the experience for weeks afterward. 
How do you build an encounter that memorable? Start off by paying 
attention to the details of your Wyrm caem’s design. Like a Blight, you need 
to decide exactly where the caem is located, why it is there and who resides 
there. Feel free to use as much creativity as possible in placing the caem. Try 
to avoid the classic “dungeon” setup as much as possible - 
no 10-foot x 10- 
foot rooms with a Bane and a chest in them. This format has been used so many 
times that players have grown to expect it. An encounter of this size deserves 
surprises. Just like Blights and Hellholes, Wyrm caems can pop up in the 
unlikeliest places. Caems have been found on board the space station Mir and 
in the gut of a giant worm underneath the Trinity nuclear test site. There’s no 
reason not to make the Wyrm caems in your game just as memorable. 
The majority of caems exist because an unusually large Blight or Hellhole 
has formed that provides the needed energy. Such isn’t always the case, however. 
Sometimes, aBlackSpira1 Dancerwillfinda locationthat iseasily defensibleand 
turn it into a Blight. The exact procedure for tainting a place such as this varies, 
but it can involve anything from serial killings to the scattering of atomic waste. 
Some caems are built to serve a specific tactical role in the war against Gaia. The 
most dangerous threat that a sept can face is a Wyrm caem that is designed 
specifically to destroy them. Usually, such a Wyrm caem will be created as close 
as possible to the sept’s own caem, often in a massive Hellhole. Such a caem will 
be defended to the utmost and concealed as carefully as possible. If you throw this 
sort of caem at the Garou, they should expect a massive challenge and massive 
causalities on both sides before the dust settles. 
Like a caem of Gaia, a Wyrm caem is defined by it totem spirit. 
Generally, these will be spirits of dark impulses, such as hate or fear. Use that 
one word describing the totem spirit and apply it to the caem’s physical 
location and description. A caem of Hatred should be set in a bigoted 
neighborhood, while a caem of Fear could exist in a sub-basement below a 
state prison’s death row. The Banes that reside in such a caem should also 
reflect the caem spirit’s purpose. 
A Wyrm caern does not have a pathstone in it. Lunagenerally objects to 
the Black Spiral Dancers using her moon bridges. However, a potent caern 
will work around this problem by creating an Anchorhead to a Calumn 
devoted to its caem-spirit’s emotion. A caem of Hatred, for example, may 
possess an Anchorhead to the Calumn of Hate. Spirals can use this open sore 
in the Gauntlet to travel to like-minded caems or other Anchorheads. It’s a 
dangerous road, but one that the Spirals don’t mind risking. 
The caem spirit itself is going to be very tough - 
as potent as a major 
Jaggling at best, nearing Incama level at worst. The exact powers of such a 
spirit should befit its nature. The Charms of a caemespirit of Lust, for example, 
42 


should be more subtle that the tools of a Murder-spirit. Any attempt to fight 
such a creature should be epic in scope. If all else fails, the spirit may even be 
able toretreat down the Anchorhead, back to its home Calumn. If the players 
truly want to extinguish the Bane, they’ll have to come up with a way to 
imprison it on the mortal plane or fight it on its home turf. 
Stranger Shores 
The Wyrm’s greatest power isn’t in the physical realm. The Wyrm’s true 
home is beyond all time and space, deep in the Umbra, where none but the 
hopelessly mad have traveled. Eventually, players will want their characters 
to travel to the Umbra and take the fight to the Wyrm. After all, this is where 
the legendary Wyrm-homes are located - 
the Scar, the Abyss, maybe even 
Malfeas. Why not try to cut the power off at the source? 
Any Garou who do travel to these places, however, should recognize - 
and fast - 
that they are unwelcome. The homes of the Wyrm are actively 
hostile to the Garou. Each place can offer vital clues about how to fight the 
Wyrm, but the true fight is back on Earth, not in the Umbra’s dark places. The 
Wyrm has already conquered the Atrocity Realm. Fighting it there is a losing 
proposition. It’s back on Earth that the war can still be won. 
The Calumns 
A Calumn is a place in the Umbra that is dedicated to a specific thought 
or emotion that resonates with the Wyrm. There are Calumns ofAnger, Hate, 
Betrayal, Murder, possibly even Angst and Apathy. The places rarely have 
any sort of interesting geography - 
they’re too primal for that. Anger might 
be a place filled with storm clouds racing over a desert, while Apathy could 
be a small, featureless gray room. Beyond that there’s little to see. 
A Calumn feels very interesting, though, like a nail through the hand is 
interesting. Any Garou who steps into a Calumn is immediately assaulted by 
waves of emotion. Garouvisiting the Anger Calumn frenzy in minutes, while 
visitors to the Apathy Calumn find it almost impossible to muster the energy 
to leave. These places are the homes of the elemental forces of the Wyrm. No 
sentient creature can expect to visit such a place and survive for long. 
Inhabitants of the Calumns 
A Calumn is a nest for Banes, pure and simple. When a Bane is destroyed 
on Earth or in the Near Umbra, it goes to a Calumn to renew itself. All of that 
rich hatred and anger is like mother’s milk to a Bane of hatred. Usually a large 
maternal Bane watches over all the dormant Wyrm-servants. Once she’s 
gone, though, the slumbering Banes can be dispatched with little or no effort. 
~ a w s  
of the Calumns 
Every turn that passes in a Calumn, a Garou must make a Social 
Challenge. Failure costs the Garou three Social Traits. When a Garou loses 
43 


all of her Social Traits in a Calumn, she is overwhelmed immediately by the 
emotion that suffuses the place. This sensation often results in an immediate 
frenzy, but some Calumns don’t provoke such a response. In any event, the 
Garou can do nothing but express the Calumn’s emotion as strongly as 
possible until she leaves. No Garou engulfed in a Calumn’s emotion has the 
strength of will to leave, though, so she must be rescued. 
No Garou may be talked out of frenzy while in a Calumn. The emotion 
of these places does not engender calm. 
Willpower may not be regained in a Calumn except by using a fetish. 
Using Calumns 
Calumns are extraordinarily dangerous places, even by the Wyrm’s stan- 
dards. A Garou can go mad in such places in a very short period of time. Emphasize 
the unrelenting pressure of the emotions in Calumns. A Garou should want to get 
out of a Calumn as fast as possible, if she can maintain her grip on reality. 
Garou may want to voyage to a Calumn to kill an especially dangerous Bane for 
all time. Spiritsdon’t die easily; most recuperate after time if their Gnosis isn’t drained 
completely. Here, in a Bane’s incubation room, the Garou may get their second 
chance. The Bane guarding a Calumn is extraordinarily potent, however, and it can 
use the power of the Calumn’s emotion to recharge her Willpower. Players should 
expect the guardian Bane to be at least as powerful as the Bane that they are pursuing. 
Some creatures of the Wyrm also use Calumns as shortcuts. Calumns are 
very close to the material word, metaphysically speaking. Nexus Crawlers 
often seem to pass through a Calumn. Gifts and Rites used by the Black Spiral 
Dancers involving moon bridges often use these places as substitutes. 
(Zhe Abyss 
The Abyss is the end of the Umbra. This barren hole is entropy given form- 
the graveyard where spirits and dreams fall away and die, unremembered. Some 
Garou may choose to come here to find hidden wisdom clinging to the Abyss’s 
walls, like algae clinging to acave wall. A precious few come back enlightened. The 
rest learn only one truth: every living soul ends in the Abyss.. . one way or another. 
Initially, the Abyss appears to be apiece of moonscape transported to the 
Umbra - 
not the comforting ream of Luna, but barren gray rock surrounded 
by darkness. A few rocky trails wend their way to a crater in the center of the 
realm. Inside the crater is something that no Garou can ever manage to 
properly describe. Most call it “nothing,” and shudder at the memory. A few 
understand that at the bottom of the Abyss is something more profound than 
nothing, but with that understanding comes an overwhelming desire to join 
the darkness. More than a few Garou have thrown themselves over the edge 
of the Abyss in despair, and the long journey down consumes all their hopes. 
There are paths down into the crater, deep into the darkness. They are 
paths only in the most generous sense of the term, paths that an experienced 
mountain-climber would find difficult to travel. There is a Silver Path, a 
44 


Golden Path, an Iron Path and other, stranger, paths into the darkness. Some 
paths are said to be easier than others. The Iron Path, for example, is relatively 
broad and straight, while one must climb down the Golden Path as much as 
walk upon it. The Stargazers spoke of some great reward to be found at the end 
of the Silver Path. No one understands it now, or cares. 
The spirit realm gutters and fails like a candle the moment one enters the 
Abyss. The Gnosis that is the part of each Garou becomes worthless, consumed 
by the Abyss the moment it is called upon. Spirits are easily called to this place, 
but those spirits that do come falter and die rapidly. Even totem spirits and familiars 
will wait on the Abyss’s lip for their companions, rather than risk oblivion. 
The moon still shines on this bleak landscape, but it only penetrates so far 
walls. Some find 
t. Some find strange 
someone uses them, 
the void in each 
a monument to 
not even know i 
, a Garou who abandoned everything to the Abyss - 
his friends, his power, his sanity- until at last the Abyss spoke to him. It said that 
it was satisfied, and that now the Night Master serves the emptiness in eternity. 
According to legend, the Night Master waits beyond the wall of darkness, guarding 
the Abyss, keeping it safe from intruders. Any Garou that ventures here will doubt 
that tale, though. Nothing could possibly sate the Abyss’s hunger. And beyond that 
darkness, there is only a terrible truth: Beyond the final darkness, there is nothing. 
Inhabitants of the ~ b y s s  
There are almost no spirits to be found within the Abyss. Even the 
toughest Nexus Crawler finds the natural hazards of this realm daunting. 
Creatures that are foreign to the Abyss hide in its caverns, though, such as 
maddened Garou and other Umbral travelers. However, the biggest hazard of 
this realm is the environment itself, not the creatures that dwell in it, and 
opportunities for combat are minimal at best. 
45 


It is almost impossible to avoid glancing into the Abyss occasionally. No 
matter what the characters are doing, eventually, they will look down. Call 
for a Mental Challenge at the beginning of every scene within the Abyss. In 
addition, call for a Mental Challenge any time that a character looks down 
into the Abyss deliberately. 
If a player fails, he must make a second Mental Challenge. Failure means 
that the character has fallen into fox frenzy. He must try to escape the Abyss 
immediately by any means possible. Success costs the character one tempo- 
rary Willpower. If a character without Mental Traits or Willpower fails this 
challenge, he will be compelled to step off the path and into the Abyss. Any 
character who falls into the Abyss is immediately and irrevocably gone. The 
character’s companions may engage in a Physical Challenge against the lost 
soul to catch him before he falls. If he is caught, then he will return to his 
normal state of mind. However, the rescuer has to make another Mental Test, 
as he looks down to save his companion.. .. 
All forms of magical flight fail within the Abyss. Creatures that can fly 
innately, such as Corax in the Corvid form or spirits that manifest with wings, 
may still fly, but Gifts such as Spirit of the Bird do not function. 
The roads down the Abyssal walls are extremely treacherous. At the 
beginning of every scene within the Abyss, all character must attempt a Static 
Physical Challenge. If the characters are traveling along the Golden Path, 
they must test against seven Traits. On the Silver Path, the difficulty is five, 
and on the Iron Path, the difficulty is three. Remember to apply darkness 
penalties if the characters have no light source. Players may retest this 
challenge with the Athktics Ability. Failure costs the character three Physical 
Traits in a climbing mishap (a twisted ankle, exhaustion from hanging onto 
a ledge, etc.). In addition, characters on the Silver Path take an aggravated 
wound from their ordeal. If a character is out of Physical Traits and he fails a 
climbing challenge, he falls to his death in the Abyss. 
No character may recover lost Traits or Willpower while in the Abyss, 
save by expenditure of Willpower or the use of a fetish. 
No gift that requires expenditure of Gnosis may be activated. No talen 
or fetish that requires an expenditure of Gnosis may be activated. No spirit 
may expend Gnosis or Essence to activate a power while in the Abyss. 
Somehow, everything that has ever been lost in the Umbra finds its way 
into the Abyss. If a character with the Scrounge ability looks for something 
specific in the Abyss, he may find it if he wins a Static Mental Challenge 
(difficulty at the Storyteller’s discretion). The deeper within the Abyss a 
character searches, the better his chances become. 
If a character sees the face of an ancestor on the walls of the Abyss, he may 
receive an extra point of the Ancestors Background (at the Storyteller’s discre- 
tion). The player must stillpay theExperienceTraitcostforhisnew Background. 
It is entirely up to the Storyteller whether a character sees such a face or not. 
46 


The gloom of the Abyss shrouds everything. Due to the low-light condi- 
tions, all Physical Challenges in the Abyss incur a two-Trait penalty. Every scene 
in which a character travels downward into the Abyss increases this penalty by 
two. When the penalty reaches 10, the characters have reached a zone of total 
sensory deprivation. They must go back or fall into the Abyss. Artificial light 
sources may decrease this penalty, but they can never eliminate it. 
Using the Abyss 
The Abyss is the ultimate home of angst and despair in the World of 
Darkness. This empty place drains away all hope. Emphasize the emptiness 
and stillness of the Abyss as you describe it to the players. The Abyss can seem 
more barren than the moon at times. The idea that everything will end up like 
this weighs down the soul. If you are playing the scene properly, tossing 
yourself into the Abyss should seem like a logical choice by the story’s end - 
just as every suicide feels that his choice is the logical one. 
Combat isn’t common or even likely in the Abyss. Spirits rarely come 
here for any reason, and climbing down a sheer mountainside in the dark is 
enough of a challenge for most Garou. The Abyss itself is the greatest 
challenge that the characters will face here. Additional foes are just overkill. 
Characters will generally travel here to try to find lost things that have 
been swallowed by time, knowledge thrown away in fear or maybe even the 
crystals that drink all Gnosis that grow in the walls. Make sure that the hunt 
is not an easy one. Even if a player’s lucky enough to pass his challenge to find 
the loot right away, let the players travel for a few scenes - 
and experience 
the dangers associated with them - 
before getting to their prize. 
It’salsoquitepossible toendup inthe Abyssby accident. After all, it iswhere 
all lost things end up. If the characters end up getting lost while traveling the 
Umbra.. . a set of three or more failures to navigate through the Umbra should 
bring them to the Abyss’s lip, whether they wanted to get there or not. 
Che Afrocify Realm 
The Wyrm was born from anatrocity. Its imprisonment and mutilation was the 
beginning of the road that leads the Garou to the Apocalypse. That horrific genesis 
is captured a hundred times over in The Atrocity Realm, a place where every act of 
brutality in creation is lovingly recorded and the Wyrm gives birth to new horrors. 
Atrocity is a gray, lifeless waste of gullies and chasms. A soft rain falls 
constantly over the mud, turning the funeral ash into soup. Sometimes a 
hillside will collapse from the weight of the mud, revealing a jumbled heap of 
white bones. The rain cannot mask the sick organic smell in the air. The 
charnel smell that invades a visitor’s nose stays there, even days after he’s left 
the realm behind. The air echoes constantly with dim screams. Their source 
is always just around the comer, or beyond the next bend. 
In every canyon of these badlands, a new horror awaits. Here, every act 
of brutality, horror or mayhem plays itself out endlessly for the amusement of 
47 


its audience. Here a father beats his child. Around the comer, a general 
methodically executes his prisoners. Around the bend, a robber shoots a 
pregnant woman in cold blood. Wherever avictimsuffers, the Wyrm watches 
and records the deed here. A trip through the gullies of the Atrocity realm is 
like walking through the devil's own freak show. Around each comer, a new 
wonder awaits. 
Every atrocity that a visitor to this realm encounters is a personal one. 
Every tragedy that a viewer encounters has a personal meaning. Get of Fenris 
arriving at the Atrocity Realm are treated to the spectacles of Viking 
ancestors destroying he 
Second World War. 
worst depravities. 
leeches, or burrow und 
e vengeful warriors. 
n this realm. There 
is to die. A Garou 
cally, at least. Mentally, 
who do so return t 
scenes in the Atr 
Garou can make 
Wall stands. The Wall is the same solid gray as the bones and the sky and the 
rain and the mud of this terrible place. Millions of names are scrawled on this 
wall, and every few seconds, a new one is added to the list. These are the names 
of the victims in the Atrocity. It is a monument to every act of horror 
remembered here, or a testament, or an accusation, or maybe just an index. 
No Garou truly understands the Wall's purpose. One thing is certain, 
however: No one has ever found the Wall's end. 
Inhabitants of the Afrocity Realm 
The various actors and victims of the Atrocity Realm are technically spirits, 
but they only posses the powers of the beings that they mimic. No spirit native 
to the Atrocity Realm may kill or be killed by a visitor. A father abusing a child 
48 


might be “killed” by an outraged Garou, but the moment the Garou leaves the 
scene, the father will re-form and the atrocity will begin anew. Likewise, any 
native spirit who kills a Garou will only release him from the Atrocity Realm 
back into the Near Umbra. The larval Banes watching these scenes are 
technically visitors to the realm, just like the Garou, so they can be killed 
normally. Each larva is quite weak individually, with no more power than a 
Gaffling at best. In a large group, such creatures might be dangerous, but 
individually, they’re nothing more than pests. They are so common, however, 
that killing them one by one seems pointless. Killing them is as effective as 
exterminating an anthill by crushing each individual ant with your fingers. 
Laws of the Atrocity Realm 
As stated previously, no Garou may kill or be killed by a spirit native to the 
Atrocity Realm. The native spirits automatically re-form after their destruction, 
and Garou killed in the realm merely leave it for another part of the Umbra. 
However, a visitor may kill another visitor without unusual results. Such an act 
will probably end up being depicted by the Atrocity Realm at a later date.. .. 
Every time a Garou enters a scene in the Atrocity Realm, or encounters 
another depiction of an atrocity, he automatically loses one point of Gnosis. 
When all of his Gnosis is gone, the Garou loses one point of Rage per scene. After 
that, the Garouloses Willpower. Finally, when all three resources are exhausted, 
the Garou is too drained to resist the Atrocity Realm’s pull. He becomes the 
victim in the next atrocity he encounters, and he is killed in the ensuing scene. 
Such a death releases the Garou from the Atrocity Realm, back into the Umbra. 
A Garou must die by the hands of the natives of the Atrocity Realm in order 
to escape it. The Garou can either intervene in a scene and deliberately fall to 
his attackers, or become so drained that he cannot resist the Atrocity Realm’s 
pull. No matter how the Garou dies, he immediately re-forms back in the Near 
Umbra. A Garou must immediately make a Mental Challenge upon leaving the 
realm. Failure means that the Garou has gained a Derangement. Note that he 
may make a retest with a Trait of Willpower.. . assuming he has any left. 
A Garou must make a Static Mental Challenge (against six Traits, retest with 
Enigmas) to locate a specific scene within the Atrocity Realm. The Atrocity Realm 
prefers to show visitors scenes in which they or their ancestors were participants, 
though, so a failed challenge will probably lead the Garou to a scene that he would 
prefer not to witness. Even when a Garou does locate the scene he wants, he may 
not be able to travel directly to it. He may have to pass through several unrelated 
scenes to get to the one he wants. As a rule of thumb, a Garou will have to pass 
through four to six unrelated scenes before arriving at his destination. 
A Garou who engages in extensive roleplay and Social Challenges with 
the actors of a scene he was personally involved in may make peace with his 
past. The success or such a feat is solely at the Storyteller’s discretion, but it 
should always be a difficult thing at best. The rewards are worthwhile, 
however. A Garou who has made peace with the lost regains the Rage, Gnosis 
and Willpower he lost when he first encountered the scene. 
49 


The fetid rain, horrid stench and distant cries all conspire to make 
tracking in the Atrocity Realm a nightmare at best. All Perception-related 
challenges made within the Atrocity Realm receive a two-Trait penalty. 
Last, there is no true rest in the Atrocity Realm. No Garou may regain 
Gnosis or Willpower by any means other than use of a fetish while in the 
Atrocity Realm. 
Using the Atrocity Realm 
The Atrocity Realm is where you can show the characters the real face 
of the Wyrm on Earth. In a real sense, the Wyrm begins and ends here. The 
violence and pain that the realm captures is what makes the Wyrm what it is. 
It’s impossible to change anything in this place, though. The Atrocities 
cannot be fought here. Visiting this place should leave characters sickened, 
horrified and burning with desire to get back home and change things. There 
is no way to make a difference here. On Earth, it’s a different story. 
Garou might choose to come here to witness a particular atrocity, so that 
they can gain clues about the outrages of the past. A victimizer might hide his 
identity in the real world, but the Atrocity Realm records everything. Bear in 
mind, though, that the horrors of this place are always personal ones for 
visitors. Characters will have to endure seeing all their worst failures recorded 
for eternity before they can see what they want. Characters should always 
dread seeing what lies beyond the next ridge. 
‘Zhe Scar 
The Scar is the Wyrm’s monument to the Industrial Revolution. It is a 
land of tar-black skies, ash heaps and rivers choked with coal. There are 
factories everywhere in the Scar - 
huge, cavernous piles of brick, filled with 
wheezing conveyor belts, burning iron, flashing carpet needles and a million 
other industrial hazards. Endless streams of withered gray workers stand 
lemminglike at their work stations, ignoring the pain of pinching, cutting 
machines, doing their job mutely, their will broken forever. The overseers 
stand watch, beating those workers whom they perceive as slacking off, being 
beaten in turn by their superiors, on and on up an endless chain that no one 
quite seems to know or understand. When the sun sets, the workers go to their 
shantytowns cut into the ashen wastes. They get their pay at the end of the 
day. It might even cover the cost of dinner, if they’re lucky. In four hours, it 
starts again, day after day, forever. 
It’s extremely hard to say just what these factories make. Some turn out 
obvious Wyrm-fetishes. Others make more obscure products, blighted toys or 
gadgets for the real world. Some seem to produce nothing at all - 
workers on 
one conveyor belt busily disassemble what workers at another workstation are 
putting together. A close observer would see tiny tubes embedded in the flesh of 
these workers. The webs lead deep into the bowels of the factory, where a giant 
battery hums, feeding off the power of the worker’s souls. The true product of such 
factories is pain and degradation. Anything else that they create is just a bonus. 
SO 


It’s hard to say who truly rules this place, the Weaver or the Wyrm. It’s 
long been presumed that this was once a Weaver-realm that was corrupted, 
but the Scar has no direct ties to Malfeas or the Wyrm. Several Glass Walkers 
and Bone Gnawers have tried to free the workers at these factories, but none 
have succeeded to date. It’s almost as if the workers don’t want to be freed. 
More and more Garou are coming to the conclusion that the Scar is a 
collaboration between the Weaver and the Wyrm, that this place signals the 
creation of some unholy alliance between two powers of the Triat. This theory 
still doesn’t explain what the true purpose of the Scar is.. . but no one said that 
celift to keep up with the times. More 
painted a luminescent b 
No elevator or toilet 
but the work is more sou 
ny factory. The Gnosis batteries 
eeking to liberate the 
hostile a realm as any 
it makes the place a pr 
in sleep - 
a hard co 
More than one 
tlet here is so thick 
e Umbra while deep 
ce of screaming iron. It’s 
achines grind it down. 
the overseers in the 
brawlers who are immune to Delirium, but otherwise, they’re nothing 
special. There does seem to be an endless number of them, though, and they 
never, ever show fear. Running away means a life on the factory floor, and 
none of them wants that. Occasionally “middle management” puts in an 
appearance if an unruly Garou shows up. This tends to be a Gnosis-bloated 
Jaggling, with enough physical power to intimidate any Garou. If the guards 
ever manage to capture a Garou, the captive immediately loses one Trait 
each of Gnosis and Willpower. The workers themselves are empty, dispirited 
manifestations of the Weaver. These Gafflings have scarcely any Gnosis or 
Willpower left, and absolutely no hope for a better life. It would take a 
Herculean effort of persuasion to get one of these wretches to escape. 
Nonetheless, some Garou still try. 
9 
51 


@des of the Scar 
All Rage expenditures cost twice as much in the Scar. That is to say, it 
costs two Rage to take an extra action or heal non-aggravated damage. In 
addition, all Primal-Urge tests accrue a two-Trait penalty in the Scar. 
If a Garou is chained up in one of the factories, he loses one Gnosis per day. 
A Gauntlet exactly like the one that surrounds the material realm 
surrounds the Scar. Stepping sideways requires a Gnosis Test. If the player fails 
the test, make a Simple Test. A second loss means that the Garou has been 
detected by Weaver-spirits that will immediately attempt to calcify him. 
The light in the Scar is dim at best. All sight-related challenges receive 
a two-Trait penalty. Finding a specific factory in the Scar requires a Static 
Mental Challenge against seven Traits (retest with Streetwise). 
Any spirit not affiliated with the Wyrm has no Gnosis and only one 
Essence in the Scar. Companion and totem spirits will generally refuse to 
enter this place. 
Using the Scar 
The Scar represents the worst things about progress. Every urban night- 
mare becomes a reality in this place. When a Garou comes to the Scar, focus 
on the details ofhow the workers and the land are being tom apart in the name 
of modernization and a brave new world. It’s possible to win minor victories 
in the Scar by destroying afactory, but doing so should be a difficult job at best. 
Simple combat alone won’t do it - 
characters need to win the support of the 
wage slaves to free such a place. That job alone makes freeing a factory 
virtually impossible. 
Some characters will come to the Scar hunting for the legendary Gnosis 
batteries. After all, there must be something good they can do with hundreds 
and hundreds of Gnosis points.. .. The overseers, however, watch the batter- 
ies closely, and tougher guardians are often only a heartbeat away. Even if a 
Garou could access such a battery, he has no way to transport it across the 
Gauntlet around the Scar. 
However, there are other resources in the Scar for enterprising Garou. A 
surprising amount of information on the plans of the Wyrm can be found in 
a factory’s ledger books. Some office parks in the Scar conform directly to the 
layout of Pentex offices in the physical world, so studying their layout can 
provide valuable insight. Most importantly, the factories often support 
Blights on Earth, providing material goods and raw corruption. Destroying 
such a place can often weaken a Blight to the point where it can be destroyed. 
The trick, of course, is determining which factory to destroy. A Garou will 
have to do a lot of research to find the right one. 
M a  ltea s 
The Wyrm’s home is an utter mystery to the Garou. Myths and legends 
exist about this or that legendary Garou visiting Malfeas and surviving, but 
52 


those tales rarely focus on just what Malfeas is like. All that the Garou can 
truly say is that it is the home of the Wyrm, and that to visit it is death. The 
White Howlers conducted the last large-scale invasion of Malfeas, and that 
voyage was somewhat less than a perfect success. Most Garou would not even 
think of going there now, lest they meet the Black Spiral Dancers’ fate. 
The Spirals themselves, of course, record the details of Malfeas’ archi- 
tecture in loving detail. They sing epic ballads about the impossible towers, 
the gardens of blasphemy, the lords of torture and despair and the dukes of 
lies and apathy.. .. The litanies go on and on about this baroque landscape 
of the damned. Malfeas is the Promised Land for the Spirals. It is where each 
of them came to finally understand the Wyrm and to join the tribe. Every 
beneficial to list all of the thi 
in Malfeas. The fac 
tters doesn’t make them 
is as much an idea as a 
the Garou. The actual 
ts, and that the Wyrm 
rtainty. First, no Garou 
whole. At best, a Garou 
wear. At worst, he joins 
details of Malfeas aren’ 
reigns supreme there, i 
oracles of the Spiral that once raved about the glories of the Malfean sunrise 
now sit in the comers, catatonic, whimpering, afraid to be seen. There is a 
deep and abiding suspicion in some Spirals that something new and terrible 
has taken up residence in Malfeas. It goes by no fancy title. It is not a duke of 
pain or a doge of lies. It has only one name. And it is busy cleaning house 
before it finally strikes. 
LUWS of Iltlulfeus 
Actually locating Malfeas is extremely difficult for most Garou. No 
Gaian spirit will admit to knowing where it is, and most tales sung by the 
Garou are silent on this point. Locating Malfeas requires at least a Wyrm Lore 
x 4 or more, or a Bane to serve as a guide (which may require some interesting 
bargaining, or even binding it). The road to Malfeas is littered with check- 
points and guards as well. It takes a Garou of considerable status to even think 
about confronting the spirits that guard the path. 
53 


Malfeas is as hostile an environment to the Garou as can be 
imagined. Any spirit or servant of Gaia stands out like a beacon in 
Malfeas - 
Baneskins or similar fetishes are a must for such travelers. 
Fetishes and talens that can replenish Gnosis are also necessities, since 
any Gnosis found here is likely to be foul with the Wyrm. If a Garou 
spends Rage or shifts in certain areas, he may risk frenzy or alerting 
something nearby. Many visitors leave with “souvenirs,” such as battle 
scars, derangements or Flaws. 
The actual architecture of Malfeas is not constant. A Garou who 
enters Malfeas will quickly encounter whatever he feels is the ultimate 
evil in the world, no matter what that thing might be. A toxic factory, 
a husband turned rapist, a demonic figure out of history - 
the Wyrm is 
all of these things and more, and it will show its most terrible face to its 
visitors. This is usually an occasion for more frenzy checks, if not 
derangement checks. 
Last, no Garou may leave Malfeas without the express permission of an 
agent of the Wyrm. One of the barons of Malfeas may give that permission, 
or another Black Spiral Dancer, or maybe even the Wyrm itself. Once it is 
given, though the Garou is free. 
Using Malfeas 
Ultimately, the nature and encounters that take place within Malfeas 
are up to the Storyteller. Players should not expect their characters to 
come back whole.. . or at all. If Apocalypse is about the hero’s journey, 
this should be the place where the hero goes to the Underworld, and 
comes back a little less together. That, or the hero plunges into the great 
maw to make that final sacrifice. (Even the Greek heroes didn’t go to 
Hades for day-tripping.) It should be a name whispered, a threat bran- 
dished by the worst of enemies. Don’t let Malfeas (or the threat it should 
represent) be used too casually. 
The classic view of Malfeas is a hellscape that would make Dante 
lose his lunch. Visiting such a place can prove entertaining, but there are 
more intimate ways of showing the players what evil looks like. Everyone 
has his own idea of what “the ultimate evil” is. Malfeas is more than 
capable of showing visitors that evil. Use this opportunity to push the 
characters to the limit and give them the worst thing that you can 
imagine. Hell can be many things to many people; no two people need 
to see Hell in the same way. 
While you’re busy horrifying the characters, though, make sure that you 
don’t push your players too far. You might want to make acharacter go berserk 
with terror, but it should be a different matter back in the real world. Make 
sure that your players know exactly what they can expect. Give them one last 
chance to turn back from the cliff. After that, go as far as you can without 
sending your players screaming. 
54 


In closing, bear in mind that you have no reason to go easy on the 
characters once they come to Malfeas. Indulge your nastiest desires as a 
Storyteller. Your players should expect no less. This is Hell, after all, and 
Hell is not about going for a casual jaunt. This should be a crucible for 
characters to test their hearts, their convictions and their minds. If this is 
the last hurrah for a set of heroes, give them a challenge worthy of the 
Vikings. For the Garou, there is no shame in falling someplace as terrible 
as the Wyrm’s own palace. 


What dre They? 
The Black Spiral Dancers are some of the most dangerous and frightening 
monsters in the World of Darkness. They’re werewolves who willingly and 
eagerly serve the Wyrm, en masse. It was bad enough when they had allowed the 
Wyrm to seduce them. They were dangerous, yes, but most Garou saw killing 
them as a chance for glory. They were monsters to be hunted, not real threats. 
Yet everything changed in the last century. Now the Dancers represent a far 
greater threat. Corruption and madness spreads like a disease throughout the 
Garou Nation. Harano claims more Garou every year. Garou allow their fury to 
overcome them. Gaia’s greatest defenders have also become a danger to her. 
This is the legacy of the Black Spiral Dancers. It’s so mucheasier to fall when 
there’s an entire tribe waiting on the other side of that fall, with arms open to 
receive you. It’s easier to succumb to your anger when a slight taint of Dancer 
blood runs through your veins. It’s easier to let hopelessness overtake you when 
you see just how powerful the Dancers have become in service to the Wyrm, and 
how fractured the Garou have become in service to Gaia. 
Once a werewolf loses the will to fight her own hopelessness, apathy and 
rage, she learns to embrace the pain and horror within her. Thus lies the path 
straight to Malfeas. Corrupted Garou are drawn or tossed straight into the coils 
of the Shattered Labyrinth, walking its path as surely as the White Howlers did. 
And once they have changed, they are welcomed eagerly by the winning side.. . . 
History 
The origins of the Black Spiral Dancers can be traced back to approxi- 
mately 80 CE, during the Roman Empire’s expansion into Britain. The last 


defense of the caerns of northern Britain depended on the White Howlers, a 
fanatical tribe that stalked the Scottish highlands. This area was also home 
to the Picts, and the greatest Pictish warriors became White Howler Kinfolk. 
The White Howlers and Picts were fierce and deadly together in battle. 
They often fought in the nude, displaying war paint and tribal tattoos, and 
they made for a truly fearsome sight. They reveled in savagery and brutality. 
Cubs proved their worth by descending into the darkness of Malfeas itself. 
They journeyed regularly to a realm known as the Black Spiral Labyrinth, or 
the Shattered Labyrinth. The shamanistic tradition of facing and defeating 
the spirits of this realm was known as “walking the spiral.” 
The legions of the Wyrm, however, were subtler than the Howlers. They 
allowed the Howlers to believe that they could weaken and strike at Malfeas 
itself. Meanwhile Banes seduced and tainted the Picts, corrupting them and 
causing them to become bestial and degenerate. 
The Garou persist in the belief that the valiant Howlers were over- 
whelmed and eradicated from without. The truth is not so simple. The 
Howlers’ rage had become completely uncontrollable, and their tradition of 
descending to Malfeas placed them at risk for seduction and corruption. Some 
warriors who returned from the Shattered Labyrinth brought dark mysteries 
and blasphemous revelations with them. Some even argued that the Wyrm 
was not a force of corruption, but rather one of balance. As the Howlers fought 
each other over their divisions, the Wyrm preyed upon their Kinfolk. 
The tribe was never destroyed from without. It was corrupted from 
within. By the time the Romans finally broke through the defenses of the 
Picts, many of the Howlers had made pacts with infernal forces to protect their 
homelands. Those who came to serve the Wyrm simply destroyed those who 
didn’t agree with them, except for the greatest heroes and elders of the tribe, 
who were dragged off to the Labyrinth. By the time the Romans arrived at the 
first corrupted caern, hell-spawn lay in wait to shatter their very souls. 
In the following weeks, the Romans were driven back out of northern 
Britain, but at a terrible cost. The Picts were once again in control of their 
homelands, but the Howlers had fallen to the Wyrm. The caerns of the north 
bred Banes to be bound into Wyrm-tainted fetishes. The elders of the tribe 
returned from the Labyrinth, but not as White Howlers. When they returned, 
they returned as werewolves of the Black Spiral Dancer tribe. 
T 
he Taint Spreabs 
The Fianna and Silver Fangs migrated into northern Britain, driving 
fomori and Wyrm-spiritsout of the area. The Picts, however, were not entirely 
destroyed in the warring. Several families survived, and they integrated with 
the other tribes of the area. The Picts intermarried with the Scots, then later 
the Angles and Saxons, and this same integration happened among the Garou 
Kinfolk. The Pictish Kinfolk passed a thin streak of tainted blood on to the 
Fianna, the Silver Fangs and other tribes of the north, and a trace of this 
corruption survived. Degenerate Kinfolk were born with birth defects, a 


predisposition for violence and symptoms of mental degeneracy. Some Garou 
dreamt of shocking past lives in which they committed terrible atrocities. 
Other Garou heard the voices of the Wyrm’s servitors calling to them. The 
Black Spiral Dancers made use of this throughout the centuries, working rites 
to bring this taint to the fore and tempting their distant relatives to join them. 
The White Howler tribal totem, one of courage and ferocity, even came to the 
Garou under another name, Lion, and it occasionally helped the Dancers in 
their efforts to corrupt the Garou. 
only look at early Scot 
unified and secured thei 
d to be subtle and 
ancers established 
underground spirit tu 
y, invisibly, the tribe spread into Europe. 
Europe, however, had 
ttleground for vampires, witches and other 
supernatural creatures 
e Middle Ages. Humanity had finally had 
enough of warring vampire lords, arrogant wizards, unpredictable fae and 
rampaging werecreatures running roughshod over their lives, and the Inqui- 
sition rose in response to the horrors. Many supernatural creatures died, 
including Dancers who had not been as careful as they had imagined. During 
those years of fire, all things unearthly - 
including the Dancers - 
learned 
a single hard lesson: Secrecy was of paramount importance. 
Wherever humans explored, the Dancers followed. They migrated to 
America more slowly than their Garou cousins, smuggling their cubs onto 
ocean-going vessels. Over the decades, enough Dancers made the journey to 
begin breeding in the New World. The Dancers established their first Pits in 
New England, then worked their way across America. The isolated colonists 
59 


made easy prey. Dancers practiced rituals in the woods, stalked the colonists 
and abducted humans to serve as sacrifices and breeders. Some were offered 
places of honor in Dancer rites and orgies; those who failed to live up to 
expectations fed the glens with their blood, poisoning the ground and 
spreading the Wyrm’s taint. The Dancers recruited humans of all sorts into 
their “cults,” thus spreading their taint, recruiting servitors for the W p ,  
acquiring human agents and bringing fresh blood into the tribe. The Delirium 
masked Dancer activities as Indian attacks, harsh winters and witch rites. 
The 20th Century 
In the last century, the Dancers found another way to spread the Wyrm’s 
influence. Banes thrived wherever the Earth was poisoned. The Dancers 
spread toxic waste, radiation, pollution and filth, despoiling and corrupting 
the Wyld as they did so. In recent years, they’ve infiltrated extreme environ- 
mentalist organizations, exploiting the fanaticism and hatred of the activists. 
Their most effective ally in this business is the corporation known as Pentex. 
Initially Pentex saw the Dancers only as shock troops who were easy to use 
and manipulate for the corporation’s goals. In the mid-’80s, several Dancers 
ascended to positions of management within Pentex and even supervised minor 
operations. One Dancer Kinfolk, Robert Allred, blackmailed his way onto the 
Pentex Board of Directors, and after his death, a Dancer named Francesco 
replaced him. This werewolf supervises Project Iliad, which dedicates itself to the 
wonders of Wyrm taint and genetic engineering. 
The tribe has come a long way from its origins as a tribe of vicious Garou to 
the versatile, often subtle, corrupting force of today. Dancers have allied them- 
selves with forces of the Wyrm in all quarters. Where Gaia has specialized servitors 
(the Garou as her warriors, the Corax as her information network, the Mokole as 
her memory), the Dancers have learned to do for themselves, making them less 
specialized, more adaptable and more dangerous than their Garou cousins. 
Only a century ago, the Dancers formed perhaps one-14th of the world’s 
population of werewolves. Today they boast one-10th of that population, 
outnumbering any other tribe. They’re the only tribe that’s growing rather than 
shrinking. An increasing number of Garou fall to the Wyrm and join the ranks 
of the Dancers, and the Dancers spawn far more cubs than the Garou. Overpopu- 
lation has always been key to the survival of the Dancers. They revel in orgiastic 
procreation rites to ensure the perpetuation of their tribe. Even displays of 
dominance and submission typically possess a sexual element. 
The Dancers have no taboos against breeding with their own kind or 
anything else, including other tribes’ Kinfolk. An alpha female typically 
spawns with several partners at a time to ensure conception. The Picts lived 
in a matriarchal society in which females chose their lovers freely, and the 
Dancers have devolved this tradition into one of total abandon. Genetic 
abnormalities are seen as evidence of the Wyrm’s blessing, giving metis an 
elevated position among the Dancers (and thus ensuring Dancers a bargain- 
ing chip when they seek to seduce metis). 
60 


. 
.- 
Alliances with Pentex and other supernatural groups, such as Sabbat 
vampires, Nephandic mages and Unseelie changelings have also helped the 
Dancers to thrive. Such alliances don’t always work out perfectly, but they 
help more than the Garou would like to believe. Alliances with Pentex in 
particular have worked out well. Both groups have similar goals, if wildly 
different ways of going about them, and they often find ways to meet in the 
middle or make use of each other’s methods. Pentex provides financial 
backing for Dancer activities; they employ entire Hives in some areas. The 
Dancers, for their part, help to corrupt from the inside out those Pentex 
subsidiaries that haven’t entirely fallen to the Wyrm. Pentex provides Dancer 
consultants with Banes, fomori and equipment. 
The Dancers possess a fanaticism and zeal that even Garou envy. After 
all, they know they’re winning, which does wonders for morale and enthusi- 
asm. To them, the coming Apocalypse is the dawning of a new age. They 
believe that when the world has been plunged into darkness, the Wyrm will 
grant them power over all creation. They have the advantage of knowing that 
they’re about to be on top, and this knowledge is a powerful motivator. It’s 
hard to give up on such a bright future. 
Abbuction anb Sebuction 
Some Dancers form hunting parties to abduct Garou cubs and swell their 
ranks. They abduct Kinfolk and Garou, as well as other supernaturals on 
occasion, to act as “breeders.” Lost cubs are particularly at risk, and considered 
great prizes - 
many tribes would shudder to realize how much attrition occurs 
in this way. The Delirium has warped these warrens into urban legends of satanic 
cults and sexual abuse. Dancer Kinfolk hear voices in their heads instructing 
them to walk willingly to places where they may be used for breeding purposes, 
while the kin of other tribes are likely used until they “break.” 
Subtler groups establish shadowy campaigns of victimization and de- 
struction, demoralizing humans, Garou and Kinfolk alike. Banes direct the 
Dancers in their effort to find Garou locked in the grip of Harano or Rage, or 
those Garou with a thin taint of Pictish blood. Hives that serve the Whip- 
poorwill totem are particularly good at locating such recruits. Often, the 
Dancers need to give only a small push to send these Garou down the path to 
their own destruction or damnation. 
The Fall of the Garou 
Why do Garou fall to the Wyrm? Why would one of Gaia’s chosen warriors 
walk the Black Spiral willingly? What could make a werewolf prefer the 
demented, monstrous ranks of the damned to the kinship of his pack and sept? 
Unfortunately, there are all too many reasons in today’s world why Garou fall. 
The Garou aren’t winning the war, and some of them realize this. The 
Dancers thrive under the thumb of the Wyrm, while the Garou die under 
Gaia’s care. Lesser things have broken a zealot’s faith, and what’s left of a 
Garou when you take away his faith in Gaia? A Garou without his faith is a 
61 


tool without a purpose, a social animal without peers, a loaded gun with no 
target. Or worse, the Garou may decide that his pain is all Gaia’s fault. It can 
take very little to convince such a creature that violence, abandon and being 
on the winning side are an attractive combination. The Dancers wait for such 
Garou with open arms. They happily spin tales of camaraderie, pleasure and 
total acceptance to any Garou who feels alone and betrayed. 
The Garou are told tales of demented, monstrous Black Spiral Dancers 
all the time. It fires them up for battle and convinces them that they’re on the 
right side, but in other ways, it plays right into the Dancers’ hands. Some of 
the more presentable Dancers make friends with impressionable young 
Garou. The Garou inevitably find out that their new friend is a servant of the 
Wyrm, which sometimes gets them thinking - 
if this one Dancer is so 
different from all of the stories, then what if the stories are wrong? What if the 
Dancers are really just like us? The Dancers are all too willing to feed these 
confusions. If the Garou’s sept comes down on him for getting suckered by a 
Dancer, then he now has resentment to add to his newfound confusions. 
Some Dancers seduce Garou, using Gifts and rites or favors from spirits 
to draw the Garou into feelings of love and devotion. If they’ve chosen their 
target well, he may walk the Spiral to be with his new love, or his emotions 
may leave him vulnerable to further corruption. 
Life at a Garou sept is hardly easy. The Garou come down hard on anyone 
who screws up in a way that puts the sept in danger, but everyone screws up 
sometime. Garou who endure violence and constant danger from the enemy 
and derision from their own septs may seek out the Dancers on their own, or 
at least listen when the Dancers make their offer. 
As mentioned earlier, metis are frequently in positions of importance and 
power among the Spirals. Even though the Litany preaches to “Respect all 
beneath ye - 
all are of Gaia,” most metis who serve Gaia’s side see precious little 
of it. They bear the burden of their parents’ sin, forced to be grateful to arrogant 
elders and leaders for the “privilege” of living, and the most unpleasant tasks are 
usuallyrelegated to them. For them, service to Gaia means little more than being 
her kitchen drudge in exchange for their lives. It’s a small wonder then that metis 
who are angry and fed up with their septmates’ bad behavior listenwhen a Dancer 
speaks of the respect and power to be found in the Wynn’s service. 
With the Dancers slowly gaining the upper hand, Garou are driven to 
more and more acts of desperation. They compromise the morals that they 
hold so dear in favor of the driving desire to accomplish something, to stem 
the tide of corruption and pollution in the final days. As they do so, they leave 
themselves vulnerable to that same corruption. The more they sacrifice the 
means to the ends, the worse the things that they’re willing to do become. 
Eventually, they find that there’s very little difference left between them- 
selves and the enemy. These are the Garou most likely to decide that they’re 
capable of entering the Shattered Labyrinth and killing the evil that lies there 
without being corrupted themselves. A fall to pride? A convenient justifica- 
tion for falling? Who can say? The answer is different for each Garou. 
62 


The reasons why Garou fall are as many and varied as the Garou themselves. 
The Garou aren’t perfect. They fall prey to jealousy, anger, resentment and pride 
just like anyone else. They spend day and night fighting impossible odds and 
enduring hardships unlike those that any mortal experiences. They regenerate 
their wounds, but they still feel the pain - 
over and over and over. Gaia heals 
them up only to send them right back out on the battlefield again. Under those 
conditions it’s hardly surprising that Garou succumb to the shadow. 
The one thing that the Garou have going for them is their social nature and 
pack structure. It’s easier to head problems off at the pass when you live with your 
packmates and spend most of your time with them. There’s a chance for people to 
ask what’s wrong, listen to your problems and remind you that it’s all going to be 
worth it in the end. Unfortunately, that reassurance isn’t always enough for some. 
63 hi lo sop h y 
Some Black Spiral Dancers have claimed that the Wyrm was originally a force 
of balance rather than evil. The solution to the current imbalance isn’t to destroy the 
Wyrm and its minions, the way the Garou do. The solution is to free the Wyrm from 
the webs of the Weaver. This goal can only be accomplished by destroying human 
order, tearing downcivilizationandwashing away humanmorality andethics. Things 
are rarely so simple, though. The Dancers are subject to the madness and horror of the 
Wyrm; few of them claim pure motives anymore. And when they give in to their Rage 
in the heat of battle, they care little for reasons. They want only to destroy. 
Many Dancers believe that there is no way to restore the balance, and that 
the only solution now is to destroy everything. The Garou must be brought into 
the fold or destroyed along with everything else. After the few remaining humans 
return to their former position of submission to the werewolves, the servants of 
the Wyrm will govern the world. Werewolves will herd humans, using them as 
they wish, culling them when necessary, just as they did during the Impergium. 
And all of these things will be done in the name of the Wyrm. 
Metis ana Other Genetic Anomalies 
When Black Spiral Dancers spawn with each other, they produce 
deformed, sterile werewolves whose breed form is Crinos, just as Garou do. In 
the case of the Dancers, however, as much as half the tribe is metis, since there 
is no stigma attached to the act of mating with another Dancer. Females of the 
tribe have authority over procreation, and they may mate with whomever 
they choose, so many simply choose to mate with other Black Spirals. 
Metis often participate in the orgiastic coupling of the Black Spirals, acting 
as a third, fourth or fifth partner in the festivities. They may then be asked to raise 
the resulting cubs. The metis of a Hive often share the responsibility of raising 
the Hive’s young, right up through their introduction into the tribe’s breeding 
practices. Dancer Theurges work hard to find a way to make metis capable of 
breeding. If they were to succeed, the Dancers would experience a population 
explosion the likes of which the Garou have never seen. 
63 


Once in a generation, a pale mockery of a White Howler is born. These 
throwbacks are sacrificed almost immediately after birth. When such crea- 
tures are born among the tribes of the Garou Nation, the nearest Hive does 
its best to snatch and kill the cub. Such anomalies are also mistrusted by the 
members of their own sept. The Garou may not know the details of the fall of 
the White Howlers, but they certainly know that they are no more. Such a 
legacy is not taken lightly. 
Some cubs are too twisted even for the Dancers. They’re so insane that 
they endanger the safety of the Hive, or they’re so misshapen that they cannot 
care for themselves. If they live long enough, such creatures may be given an 
“honorable” death in battle against the Garou. Others are sacrificed. Because 
these monsters are the first line of attack against the Garou, the Garou often 
underestimate the intelligence of the Dancers as a tribe. A few rejects are also 
allowed to go Ronin; they’re accorded the same respect as pack members as 
long as they bring no harm to the Dancers. Any Ronin who abandon the cause 
of the Wyrm, however, are hunted down, tortured and slain. 
Moots 
Black Spiral Dancer moots are different from Garou moots in almost 
every respect. While numerous Wyrm-spirits may be found in attendance, 
they do not have an equal say in the proceedings to the packs of the tribe. 
There is no one sept leader or Master of the Rite in charge; instead, three 
elders lead the moot. Where Garou moots tend to follow strict protocols, 
Dancer moots are chaotic and noisy. While Garou prefer to hold their moots 
out in the open, Dancers prefer to hold theirs in tunnels and caves. 
Moots are a chance to ensure the morale and fanaticism of the entire 
Hive. The moot begins with all Dancers present casting aside their faGades by 
divesting themselves of clothing, revealing hidden tribal tattoos and remov- 
ing disguises. The Rite of Woad reveals less visible identities. Multiple 
discussions continue at once. Ragabash and Galliards offer impromptu 
performances of a humorous, obscene or violent nature. 
There are very few cases in which the attention of the Hive as a whole 
is focused on an individual. One is when a renown rite is to be held. Another 
is when an individual is to be punished. In the latter case, the elders call all 
discussion to a halt as a Galliard announces the nature of the crime. The Hive 
splits into groups to discuss the offense, and the three elders rove the chamber 
listening to the discussions. The elders decide on a consensus and render a 
verdict, which often involves a further trial by ordeal. 
At the conclusion of the moot, the elders gather at the center of the 
meeting area, where they inform each other of their uncoordinated and thus, 
hopefully, unpredictable plans. This gathering concludes with the Dancer 
version of the Garou revel. The Spirals’ revel includes ingestion of drugs, 
displays of dominance and submission and acts of violence or violent sex. 
Once the revel ends, everyone goes their separate ways, for the Dancers have 
better things to do with their time than listen to stories. 
64 


See the Moot Rite (p. 100) for mechanical details regarding Black 
Spiral Dancer moots. 
Camps 
The Black Spiral Dancers, like all good religious zealots, have their 
camps, disagreements and schisms. Although Dancers gather for moots by 
Hive, they also come together through isolated series of camps. A few are 
detailed here. 
T h e  Cluifhi 
The White Howlers are no more, but the Cluithi have done their best to 
preserve the Howlers’ heritage, or so they like to think. The Cluithi prowl the 
moors and forests of Scotland, wearing the clothing they believe their 
ancestors wore. They rend their clothing before battle and paint themselves 
with blue body paint, proudly displaying Pictish tattoos. In battle, they show 
no mercy and never flee from their enemies. 
Of course, the Cluithi don’t know the truth of how the Picts lived any 
better than most modem people do. They celebrate anarchical freedom while 
trashing the natural world that their ancestors revered. They’re elitists who 
consider themselves the nobility of the Dancers. Other Dancers rarely 
appreciate this attitude (though some have been known to humor them long 
enough to let them lead a doomed charge in battle). Many Cluithi claim to 
be modem druids, and they go to great efforts to learn odd and unusual 
sorceries. They use their “research” to justify any bizarre or obscene practice 
that they enjoy. 
T h e  Genetic Irregulars 
Caerns deep in backwoods areas, far from the frontlines of Gaia’s war, 
take in all sorts of Garou cast-offs, including metis shunned by their Garou 
“betters,” Bone Gnawers tired of rejection by the other tribes, Garou deep in 
the thrall of Harano and Ronin of all types. Some of these Ronin are of the 
Black Spiral Dancer tribe, for when you’re so far from the war, sides seem less 
important. Regardless of location, these groups have gained one derisive 
nickname: the Genetic Irregulars. 
These corrupted werewolves band together to form communes near 
America’s smallest towns. These little groups can be found from rural New 
England villages to isolated Southern hamlets. Enforcement of the Litany 
tends to be lax, and you won’t find the typical Garou fanaticism and religious 
zeal here. As these groups indulge in a bit too much inbreeding, their children 
are easily tainted and corrupted by the Wyrm. 
Garou who wander through these areas soon find themselves praying for 
deliverance, if they live that long. Some of these groups are always looking for 
a fresh infusion of blood or an entertaining game. Others just want to make 
sure they’re never found. 
65 


Intelligence and social skills may be in short supply in these communes, 
but these werewolves often develop mutations that true Black Spiral Dancers 
would be proud of. Some Dancers find that these folk make fantastic shock 
troops when they get riled up, particularly if they think there’s a threat to their 
placid little order. A few of these folk are allowed to walk the first circle of the 
Shattered Labyrinth. Most fail the test and go insane. 
The Consultants 
These Black Spiral Dancers are the ones most loyal to Pentex. “Company 
wolves” are on the fast track to promotion, management and a good 401K plan. 
They may be loyal to the company, but they care little for the individuals they 
work with. As soon as a job is finished, they sever their ties and move along to 
the next assignment. Many “consultants” believe themselves to be superior to 
their other Dancer relatives, and they demand backup for their Pentex projects. 
Consultants tend to drift away from their local Hives, spending more 
time at company meetings than at Dancer moots. Few Dancers truly trust 
these wolves, believing them to be too caught up in the Weaver’s webs. These 
Dancers have more expenses than their fellows, which draws them deeper 
into Pentex’s web. 
Kin fork 
Kinfolk of the Black Spiral Dancers are subject to the same taint as their 
Dancer relatives. Many of them hear voices in their heads, or bear some other trace 
of madness. They suffer the milder physical deformities and possess uncontrollable 
tempers or severe delusions. Many end up as members of hate groups, religious or 
doomsday cults, while others while away their time engaging in thrill-killing, 
animal abuse or general malice and mayhem. Lupine Kinfolk are rare; most are 
unstable dog-wolf crossbreeds. These animals are usually spotted running in packs 
through the streets on the bad side of town or late at night through small-town 
alleys, and they are the terror of solitary walkers or local dog wardens. 
Dancer Kinfolk might serve the tribe without ever realizing it. The Wyrm 
commands them in dreams and nightmares, showing them what they must do in 
order to be released from their suffering. These Kinfolk are likely to believe that 
they serve angels, devils or aliens, and most don’t even believe in werewolves. 
Black Spiral Dancers not only feel free to breed with the Kinfolk of 
other tribes but prefer it. They enjoy the knowledge that their taint will 
pollute some proud Garou’s “pure” lineage. They use Gifts and rites to 
distort and alter the memories of these breeders, leading to confusion on the 
Kinfolk‘s part. With the arrival of GHB (the “date rape” drug), kin who 
were victimized at parties or other gathers may believe that they were 
slipped something. 
The m a r k  Litany 
It sounds fantastic in a nasty sort of way, doesn’t it? Black Spiral Dancers 
do whatever they want, act out their most horrific fantasies, and don’t take 
66 


orders from anyone. Or ... maybe not. Even the Dancers wouldn’t last for long 
if they ran around doing anything and everything without regard for wit- 
nesses, consequences and working relationships. Therefore, they have their 
own Dark Litany, a perverted form of the Garou Litany, and they observe its 
rules as strictly as the Garou observe theirs. 
The Dark Litany can act as a quick-reference guide to Dancer behavior 
when the Storyteller is in a hurry and doesn’t have time to prepare. Obviously 
it’s better to have character background written up, but there isn’t always 
time. While Dancers occasionally choose to break the Litany, the Dancers are 
even more vicious than the Garou about enforcing theirs. The usual punish- 
ment for breaking it is death, preferably preceded by torture. 
The forces of the Wyrm m 
low petty differences to get in the 
and Sabbat vampires as long 
way of victory. Unity within 
interpretation of course. Some 
activity inherently involves ser 
o the Wyrm. Others argue that 
mpete for land in most cases. 
ay. Any Dancer who endangers 
e Dancers guard their territory 
another Hive is tortured and 
more jealously than others. 
transmogrify instead of submitting to long torture. Prisoners who reject and 
disrespect such an honor must be destroyed. “Offer” is a loose concept, 
however. A choice of walking the Spiral and having the opportunity to slay 
Wyrm-spirits and die with honor, or dying a weeks-long agonizing death is 
considered a perfectly legitimate offer. Some Dancers consider tossing a 
Garou bodily into the Labyrinth to be an offer as well. If he didn’t want to go, 
he would have broken free or died fighting his captors, right? 
Respect All ‘Chose W h o  Serve the W y r m  
Dancers may consider the advice, requests and offers of non-Dancers, 
such as humans in Pentex and vampires in the Sabbat. Some Dancers also see 
this stricture as forbidding the death of Garou or others who appear to be on 
the road toward eventual corruption. 
67 


T h e  Veil Shall not W e  Lifteb 
The Inquisition made this lesson brutally clear. Most supernatural creatures 
keep up some version of the Veil, in the simple self-interest of not getting caught 
and destroyed. The less humans know of the monsters in their midst, the fewer 
protections they have against them. When Dancers act discreetly, they keep Garou 
from finding out about their plans; it gives them the advantage of surprise. This 
point is one of contention with the Sabbat. Dancers won’t go along with Sabbat 
plans that call for the Dancers to compromise the secrecy of their Hives and goals. 
00 
not Suffer T h y  People to Ten8 T h y  Sickness 
Black Spiral Dancers uphold this stricture as religiously as any other. 
Weak cubs must not be allowed to grow, breed and poison the tribe’s gene 
pool. Weak elders are liabilities. Dancers so insane that they pose a danger to 
the Hive may be tom apart as sacrifices to dark powers. 
T h e  Leaber M a y  W e  Challenge8 at Any T i m e  in Peace 
Defeating renowned Black Spiral Dancers is a time-honored way to gain 
power and acclaim. Any leader who cannot defeat his own followers cannot 
be trusted to lead them against their enemies. 
T h e  Leaber Shall not W e  Challenge8 in T i m e  of W a r  
The forces of the Wyrm must be united in times of war. This distinction 
is usually taken to refer to outright skirmishes and battles, as the Dancers are 
technically always at war with someone. There are one or two exceptions to 
this law. Any non-Dancer who leads the Dancers in battle and does so poorly 
may be killed. Under extreme circumstances of physical disability, a Dancer 
who refuses to appoint a more fit leader may be destroyed, but this resort is 
reserved only for the most dire of circumstances. 
y e  Shall T a k e  n o  Action T h a t  Causes a flit to W e  Violate8 
This point of the Litany is generally interpreted as referring to secrecy and 
security. Any non-Dancer who enters a Pit must be destroyed immediately. 
Prisoners are never brought back to a Pit, nor does anyone speak of the Pit 
when they are outside of it. If prisoners are invited to walk the Shattered 
Labyrinth, the rite must be performed elsewhere. Any Dancer who leads 
enemies (or allies!) back to a Pit will be tortured and killed. 
(che &lack Spiral 
Since the very origin of the Black Spiral Dancers as a tribe, they have descended 
into Malfeas itself to better prepare themselves to serve the Wyrm. The dimension 
they travel is known by various names, including “the Shattered Labyrinth” and “the 
Black Spiral Labyrinth.” Dancer cubs usually attempt their Rite of Passage at age 14, 
and they return each time they are ready to increase in rank. The metamorphosis that 
the Dancer undergoes in the Labyrinth is referred to as ~~umrnogrifiutiun. 
68 


The Rite of Passage and the increase in rank are both recognized in front 
of the entire Hive with elaborate ceremony and ritual. The Theurge begins 
the ceremony by tracing out a design (representative of the Labyrinth) on the 
floor of the Pit’s central chamber, which takes 10 minutes and serves to open 
a gate to Malfeas. Meanwhile, a Galliard representing the petitioner chants 
the petitioner’s accomplishments (or his lineage, if this is his Rite ofpassage). 
(Note: when this rite is performed for prisoners or Garou who wish to convert, 
it is never performed within the confines of the Pit. Such an action would 
endanger the security of the Hive.) 
The initiate then enters a trancelike state i 
usually driving him ins 
Labyrinth with a touch of 
insanity are seen as 
great things to come. 
as guidance from an U 
C h e  Nine Circles 
Most entrances to the Shattered Labyrinth are temporary ones created for the 
purpose of the Rite ofTrunsmogri~arion. There are few permanent entrances. The 
largest of these is an inlaid spiral permanently stained in blood and worked into 
the floor of a Gothic cathedral called the Temple Obscura. The temple is filled 
with an overpowering stench and illuminated by the sickly green light of balefire. 
The nine circles, or thresholds, of the Shattered Labyrinth offer tests that 
the Dancer must overcome or outwit in order to advance in rank. Strong or 
ingenious petitioners may emerge with Gifts taught by the servitors of the 
Labyrinth. These vision quests may take many forms, but they often appear 
as surreal stories and vignettes presented by dark Umbral spirits. 
69 


The first five circles represent the first five ranks. It is extremely unusual 
for a Black Spiral Dancer to proceed to the sixth circle or beyond. Only two 
Dancers are supposed to have bested the ninth and final circle. 
The First Circle, The Dance of Insight: The first circle offers the first 
ordeal that a Black Spiral Dancer must overcome in order to be seen as a full- 
fledged member of the tribe. Darkness initiates the experience, swiftly filled 
by visions that offer up dismal truths contained within the Dancer’s own soul. 
The Dancer must overcome the limitations of her mind in order to accept the 
evil within her. The revelations offer great understanding, but those who are 
weak become hollow, shattered, mad shadows of their former selves. 
The Second Circle, The Dance of Rage: In this second circle, the 
initiate learns the strength of indulgence in violence of the most extreme 
kind. A Dancer who enters this portion of the Labyrinth encounters problems 
that may only be overcome through extraordinary violence and frenzy. This 
circle encourages the Black Spiral Dancer to give in to any act of violation or 
psychotic destruction imaginable. 
The Third Circle, The Dance of Endurance: This circle presents tests 
of physical and mental anguish that must be endured. The test makes use of 
the Dancer’s own experiences, showing him that he is stronger than he once 
was, that he can endure that which defeated him before. The Dancer often 
emerges with a higher tolerance to pollution, radiation, pain, fear and so on. 
The mental anguish caused by this test may help the Dancer to commune with 
the Urge Wyrms, encouraging a greater sympathy with the Wyrm’s traumas. 
The Fourth Circle, The Dance of Cunning: A treacherous Bane guards 
this circle, and he must be bested in a test ofwits. The Dancer must learn to draw 
upon her Gnosis, to twist wisdom into false logic. Doing so teaches the Dancer 
to see through the deception of others, particularly the Dancer’s own allies. The 
Dance of Cunning may also teach the Dancer the truth behind a great lie. 
The Fifth Circle, The Dance of Combat: This is a symbolic battle, not 
a blow-by-blow contest. The Dancer must impress her foes by using violence 
in imaginative ways and by not showing fear. Traditionally, success bestows 
greater ability in combat. 
The Sixth Circle, The Dance of Corruption: The sixth circle brings 
about terrible physical mutations and mental abnormalities, all but destroy- 
ing the Dancer’s sense of identity and self. The experience systematically 
destroys the most secure aspects of his identity, one by one, until he no longer 
sees himself as the same person he was. This test causes radical shifts in 
personality and results in at least one physical deformity and one mental 
disorder, sometimes more. It undermines the Dancer’s faith in what seemed 
to be a sane, secure and stable part of reality. 
The Seventh Circle, The Dance of Loyalty: The Dancer must prove her 
willingness to sacrifice for the Wyrm. She must sacrifice her dearest posses- 
sion, whether that is a fear, a love or a hidden link to the sane, human world 
that she supposedly left behind a long time ago. 
70 


The Eighth Circle, T h e  Dance of Paradox: The Dancer 
must overcome a riddle posed by a Bane of Enigmas. Any Dancer who returns 
successful from this test loses any understanding she gained through the 
experience, and no one has ever been able to explain what happened to them 
within this circle. Some Dancers speculate that the secret of the Eighth Circle 
has something to do with the true nature of the Triat. 
The Ninth Circle, The Dance of Deceit: The Dancer must 
overcome a manifestation of the Wyrm in combat and destroy it. Only two 
Dancers have ever passed this ordeal and returned; they became an Incarna and 
a Malfean. Some speculate that the Dancer must briefly become the Wyrmwithin 
this circle. 
Playing with Others 
Black Spiral Dancers play well with others - 
in theory. It is true that the 
Dark Litany requires them to “Serve the Wyrm in All Its Forms” and to “Respect 
All Those Who Serve the Wyrm.” It’s impossible to dictate feelings, however, 
and alot of Black Spiral Dancers just plaindon’t like their allies. This dislike leads 
many Dancers to conveniently interpret the Dark Litany to mean what they 
want it to mean, or get away with things that they think others won’t notice. 
Differences in philosophy and attitude tear the “forces of evil” apart. They’re 
all used to taking what they want and doing what they want. Many of them have 
difficulty curbing this instinct just because some Dancer a couple of Hives away 
thought that an alliance would be a great idea. Even when they do have decent 
intentions, the will may be weak. It’s one thing to say, “I won’t take the pretty 
thing that belongs to our allies,” but it’s another to actually keep one’s paws off. 
A simple temptation has ruined more than one budding alliance. 
C h e  Sabbat (Vampires) 
While these vampires may seem to have similar goals and attitudes to the 
Dancers, plenty of differences pull them apart. The worst of these come down 
to religious differences. No matter how similar two religions seem on the 
surface, it’s never a good idea to put zealots of different faiths on the same 
team. Distinctions, however minor, inevitably emerge, and violence follows. 
It doesn’t help that the Sabbat like to be in control, and the Dancers hate 
being controlled. Many Sabbat would like to think of the Dancers as their 
convenient daytime watchdogs, but the Dancers have other ideas. Those 
Dancers who follow totems of strength are the most likely to work with and 
for the Sabbat. They’re also the most likely to break off such a relationship 
(usually with violence) when they start to feel used or under-appreciated. 
T h e  Unseelie (Changelings) 
The Unseelie are occasionally useful to the Dancers, but not all Dancers 
like these allies. The Unseelie may be masters at subterfuge, trickery and 
politicking, but they’re rarely as fond of sheer, intense, psychotic violence as 
the Dancers are. Some among the Shadow Court may enjoy a good slay-ride 
71 


through town, but many times, the rest of the Shadow Court tries to rein these 
ones in rather than risk inappropriate attention. Some Dancers look down on 
them for this, and it doesn’t help that few Dancers appreciate (or in many 
cases, tolerate) the intricacies of changeling court politics. For this reason, the 
Unseelie will never be seen as the Dancers’ equals. Followers of the totems 
Kirijama and Aucol get along best with these changelings. 
Mephanbi (Wages) 
The Dancers don’t trust the Nephandi as far as they can throw their 
headless bodies. The Nephandi are useful, but anyone who wants power that 
much is a betrayal waiting to happen. The Dancers are more than willing to 
get there first. Followers of Whippoorwill and Caterpillar are the most likely 
Dancers to work with Nephandi. 
Spectres (Wraiths) 
The Dancers admire the methods of these ghosts, as well as their ability 
to seduce, corrupt and destroy. Those who are familiar with them are quite 
aware, however, that the ultimate goal of the Spectres is incompatible with 
the plans of the Dancers as a whole. Followers of Bat are the most likely to 
work together with Spectres. 
doentex (Humans) 
The Black Spiral Dancers work best with Pentex, their longtime ally. 
Only short-term disagreements as to method and the relative importance of 
different goals are likely to get in the way of this alliance, as well as the 
occasional personality conflict. Also, Pentex prefers to hire people on long- 
term contracts, and the Dancers prefer to move around as they will. 
This isn’t to say that they always have each other’s best interests at heart. 
Many Dancers believe that they’re happily using Pentex for their own goals, 
and many Pentex operatives believe that they’re using the Black Spiral 
Dancers for theirs. Since both groups’ work is so completely wrapped up in the 
desires of the Wyrm and its servants, however, this is only occasionally a 
problem. Dancers of all kinds end up in arrangements with Pentex, and many 
of them pull in a paycheck from the company coffers. 
(Che Shattereb Moon: C h e  13 G i b e s  Corrupteb 
The Wyrm rejoices when the tribes do its work, and many times, they do 
so unwittingly. Race hatred, elitism and stereotyping appear more frequently 
than many would like, and even the best packs have been guilty of it. Every 
tribe also has some weakness that can provide an opening to a Dancer who is 
clever enough to exploit it. 
Gaian Garou spend most of their post-Change waking lives on the front 
line of the war against the Wyrm. There’s little shore-leave, rest-time is 
scarce, and many hardened leaders in the tribes or septs see requests for time 
away as being selfish or indicative ofweakness. Garou who tire of this pressure 
12 


eventually return to their human or wolf lives, often in the first stages of 
Harano. As Harano deepens, the Garou isolates herself, plagued with dreams 
and nightmares ofher past lives. It is often during this time that she feels called 
to come to the Underworld, where her pain will end at last. 
A Garou who accepts the revelations of the Shattered Labyrinth be- 
comes something utterly different from what she was. She may use her 
knowledge of her tribe’s weakness to tailor the temptation tactics, or she 
might betray her sept with her memory of its defenses. Some Garou do come 
looking for fallen packmates, and they may end up fallen themselves. Worst 
of all is when a pack must stare into the face of their fallen comrade, knowing 
that she wishes them all dead or riddled with Wyrm-taint. 
ated over the years with the 
Garou Nation’s inability to do 
beyond attempting to alter 
society’s attitudes and the fact 
Garou only perpetuate the 
things the Furies seek to end 
ral is one of consummated 
dreams. Women hold a great d 
the Dancers, and some take 
advantage of this, although 
up their independence to 
become breeders for the trib 
quently revolves around 
violent misandry, extreme sexual practices or altered notions of gender. 
Bone Gnawers - 
Gnawers are often treated with scorn by their “betters” 
among the tribes, and they’re 
Many grow frustrated in 
their efforts to improve thei 
notion that Gaia must 
intend for them to suffer lik 
e Spiral are often appalled 
urvivors are often plagued 
ion at what they saw in 
ommon. Since mental 
y Gnawers walk openly on the 
re known (and sometimes scorned) 
drugs and free love. Some do find 
come jaded, using them to 
any perks to fallen Children, such 
zing drugs and a fanatically 
anias are indulged, and even 
erve the Dark Fungus. 
Celtic heritage, unaware of the 
served many traditional 
and the lure of forgotten 
so much of the old tainted 
nds and pasts that are best 
ral, some Fianna join the Cluithi camp, 
me strangely ashamed of 
ng humans who bear Gaelic blood 
hunting ground.. . ) . 
Black Furies -The Furi 
illness is common among the h 
streets, spreading their taint, which the Dancers reward. 
Children of Gaia - 
Ma 
for their attitudes regarding 
love or revelation in these 
hide from responsibility. T 
as the tribe’s orgiastic br 
bound community of allies 
encouraged. A number of 
taint that runs through it. 
beliefs of Ireland, Scotland, 
knowledge can pull at so 
blood in their veins that they 
forgotten. On their return fro 
seeking to rekindle their 
their pasts and blood, and 
(northern Ireland has beco 
Fianna - 
Many Fianna treasu 
73 


Get of Fenris - 
The Get are filled wi 
many frenzies risks making 
grow. Eventually, the 
for blood in which to 
truly ecstatic! Since the tribe a 
madness, from sado-mas 
Glass Walkers 
something: The Glass 
choke off all aspects of the Triat, and t 
fascination. Pentex is most likely to 
the form of job search 
through “employee orientation’’ br 
the Weaver and the modem w 
turnaround, becoming raging 
mechanophilia are other commo 
Garou. What begins as irritation wi 
pain, it often forms some of their 
nconsiderable knowledge about 
lass Walker dementia. 
nothing. Their hearts break 
under the strain of their Rage, 
e the Wyrm as an ally. Fallen 
Talons dream of the Impergiu 
t - 
when the foolish humans were 
it with gruesome enthusiasm. Cannibalism and brutal bestiality are common 
forms of dementia for this fallen tribe. Abhorra, Urge of Hatred, takes 
particular interest in th 
Shadow Lords - 
ords fall more frequently than they 
d pride - 
make them 
the middle may likely 
wn. Fallen Lords either 
re greater powers than 
of Shadow Lords to do 
rds to work for them. 
Fallen Shadow Lords usually suffer from paranoia or delusions of grandeur. 
Silent Striders - 
Silent Striders frequently travel to some of the most 
communicating with things in the outer darkness. Spending so much time in the 
Underworld, the Striders forget the norms of behavior in the earthly world and 
take up shocking practices that they learned in the Stygian depths. 
74 


Silver Fangs - 
The so-called kings of the Garou teeter perilously 
close to the edge, and their madness makes them easy prey to further 
corruption. Some h 
ves due to their night- 
mares during transmogri 
r delusions of grandeur, 
ancers to glorious victory 
against Gaia. The Dancers are always happy to let these ones lead the charges. 
ways. Either they grow 
frustrated with their 
homelands and indig- 
or their occult studies lure 
them into seeking forbidden 
y make deals with one too 
many dark powers). 
stantly for signs of taint 
lant sentinel blinks once 
owledge of Banes and 
other Wyrm-spirits, 
onic servants. Many 
submit themselves to humiliating 
e and develop penchants for live 
sacrifice, scarificati 
ism - 
a belief that 
true occultist (the 
believer) can command it - 
is also frequent. 
Uktena - 
Ukten 
work of the white m 
often use their kn 
also dream of somethin 
mystery that follows another Black Spiral migration.. .. 
the great ice of Antarctica, some great 
Agenaas 
The major agenda of the Black Spiral Dancers is clear: the destruction of 
human order, the death of all Garou who will not join them and the 
subjugation of the mortal world. How, then, do they intend to get there? 
Corrupf ion 
Corruption is the first order of business for most Dancer Hives. Some 
Dancers work slowly and carefully, using research, rites and delicate manipu- 
lation to orchestrate the fall of their foes. Others spread their taint physically, 
through rape, abduction and the spread of radiation, toxic sludge and 
pollution. Still others demoralize the Garou through repeated attacks, leaving 
them subject to exhaustion and Harano. 


The Dancers work paw-in-hand with Pentex to corrupt humanity and 
the Wyld itself, creating fomori, birthing Banes and despoiling wild places. In 
particular, the Dancers have made ample use of the Rite of Blood Taint and 
similar rites of late to exploit the pollution that they have spread throughout 
the Garou Nation. Pentex is also working on drugs that will make the job of 
corruption easier, weakening the resolve of Garou and Kinfolk alike. 
Thanks to the resources of Pentex, the Dancers have also rediscovered a 
few of the other Changing Breeds. They’ve begun efforts to taint the other 
breeds as well. In some cases, their job is easy. For example, the Bastet tribe 
of the Simba (the werelions), have already fallen much of the way on their 
own. The Dancers hope to drag the entire tribe over to their side, where Lion 
would no doubt welcome them graciously. The sudden infusion of numbers, 
fresh blood and sheer surprise should put them a large step ahead of the game, 
if they succeed. There’s no guarantee, however, that the lions will be willing 
to work with the Dancers if they fall. 
qeprobucf ion 
The Dancersdo their best to increase their numbers day by day. They abduct 
humans, Garou and Kinfolk to act as breeders. They rape unwilling subjects and 
warp their memories through the Rite ofthe Survivm. They enact procreation rites 
and work furiously on a means to make their metis fertile. There are few taboos 
where sex is concerned. The only abomination is chastity. 
Some Dancers have pinned their hopes on the Pentex interest in genetic 
engineering; perhaps Pentex can prevail where the Theurges have not. A 
handful of metis participate willingly in Pentex experiments to this end. 
Dancers don’t care whether or not their cubs are raised within the 
purview of the Hive, as long as they can be found and brought home 
eventually. This leaves them free to spawn with whatever partners they want, 
caring little for the ultimate disposition of those partners. It also means that, 
in many cases, they don’t need to worry about paying child support, college 
tuition and other costs traditionally associated with having children. On the 
other hand, as their taint asserts itself, these children are likely to spread 
corruption to the very youngest and most defenseless victims. 
0 
est r u ct ion 
This goal may be harder to achieve than one would think. The Dancers 
must be careful not to give away the location of their Hives. If they simply 
launched wave upon wave of assaults on Garou caerns, the Garou wouldn’t 
need to wonder long where the attacks were coming from. When the Garou 
know what they’re fighting and where to take the fight, it gives them a morale 
boost that the Dancers most definitely don’t want them to have. 
The Dancers prefer to work like terrorists. They pay attention, and keep 
abreast of their enemies’ movements. They take advantage of a momentary 
weakness in the defenses, or they engineer one themselves. They wait until 
76 


the Garou are busy elsewhere, divided and already fighting a war on another 
front. Then they attack, quickly and decisively. They do as much damage as 
possible and then disappear again. 
T h e  Apocalypse 
Above all, the Dancers await the coming Apocalypse. They do what they 
can to prepare for it. They want as many Garou as possible in the grip of 
Harano, hopelessness, despair and corruption when that time comes. The 
greater the numbers of Dancers and the fewer the number of Garou, the easier 
the Apocalypse will be in coming. The Dancers watch their allies closely in 
these times for signs of betrayal. They know that the Wyrm has promised them 
dominance, but they also know that their allies may have other plans. 
0 
e fo r mit ies, I h e  
s ses 
anb dbnormalities 
Deformities and mental disorders of all kinds show up among the Black 
Spiral Dancers for many reasons. The prevalence of metis Dancers is one. 
Inbreeding is another. While there is some pressure to bring fresh blood into 
the Hives, females may mate with anyone they choose. The touch of the 
Wyrrn inspires some particularly nasty deformities, and Dancers do play 
around with things like toxic waste and radiation. Even the Shattered 
Labyrinth itself may warp the mind and body of a Dancer. 
Dancers range from the surprisingly beautiful to the monstrous. They might 
appear to be lucid, or they might be raving lunatics, and there’s plenty of room 
in between the extremes. Use the occasional monstrous Dancer to strike fear and 
horror into the Garou, but otherwise use a little subtlety. Too many deformities 
piled into one character become silly and laughable rather than scary. 
Both deformities and madness are seen as blessings, unless the madness 
makes the Dancer dangerous or the deformity makes the Dancer useless. The 
longer a Dancer is around and the more trips he makes into the Shattered 
Labyrinth, the more twisted he’s likely to get. Therefore, the most corrupted 
Dancers are most likely to show up in two places: on the front lines getting 
killed, and in the higher ranks of the Dancers. 
@ h y s i c a l m  e for mi t ie s 
Physical deformities and handicaps range from the very mild (cleft palate 
or harelip) to the extreme (stunted, twisted limbs or complete hairlessness) 
to the.. . unusual (tentacles and sores that drip acid). Some may show up only 
in certain forms. Some can be covered up with a shirt, hat or scarf; others can’t 
be missed. Such deformities obviously limit whether or not the Dancer may 
go out in normal society, so take into account what you want the Dancer for 
when you consider physical abnormalities. 
77 


A large proportion of Dancers and their Kinfolk just aren't pretty creatures. 
Dancer fur may be black, gray-green or albino white, although Dancers who 
started out as members of other tribes exhibit a wider range of fur coloration, as 
do their children. Dancers range from the average boy-next-door to hideous 
things that could send a battle-hardened Ahroun running in fear. 
There is a mild tension between those few Dancers who somehow come 
out clean and attractive, and those with hunchbacks, lank hair and twisted 
limbs. Each side often claims that their state indicates a certain superiority, 
although it's generally accepted that deformities are blessings from the Wyrm. 
Some of the pretty ones try to claim that in its own way, beauty is adeformity. 
By and large, however, the Dancers care far more about unity as a tribe than 
who has nice hair. So while snipes and gibes get traded, they usually don't get 
in the way of the cause. 
"Mormal" d i r t h  O e f e c t s  
Some Dancers are missing fingers or toes. Others have digits that are 
fused together. Limbs are too short or too long, or they're missing altogether. 
Arms dwindle away into stunted, useless ends. One or both eyes might be 
blind, although blindness may lead to the early death of the Dancer if he 
doesn't adapt well. Some Dancers have cleft palates and harelips. Odd 
birthmarks show up in unusual places. Colorblindness is particularly com- 
mon. Skin, eye or hair color may be unusual in some way. Any birth defect that 
a human can have, a Dancer can have as well. 
Some Dancers are born with an unnatural, surreal beauty to them. This 
is often paired with albinism or rich, black fur, and almost invariably with 
intense (although sometimes subtle) madness. 
Musty 't kings 
Many Dancers don't pay much attention to cleanliness and hygiene. 
Crooked teeth are fairly common, although Dancers rarely lose their teeth. 
Dancer fur can be infested with lice or even stranger things. What fur they do 
have is often mangy, ragged andpatchy. The occasional Dancer is completely 
hairless. Facial features might be a little off, such as slightly asymmetrical or 
spaced irregularly. Blisters or tumors cause lumps under the Dancer's skin, or 
they burst into open sores that drip blood, pus, oil, poison or acid. Exaggerated 
curvature of the spine is relatively common. Painful mutations can result in 
penalties to actions or fewer health levels than normal. 
GiJeyonb the @ale 
A Dancer could have a forked tongue (which tends to make speech 
difficult) or a cat's eyes. Large bats' ears are surprisingly common. Flaps of skin 
called patagia (such as you might find in a bat's wings or on the body of a flying 
squirrel) extend from arms to legs along the body. Tentacles sprout out of odd 
and unusual places, replacing hands or even teeth. Spines, spikes, barbs, 
hooks, horns and antlers supplement or replace fur, hands and so on to act as 
78 


weapon, protection, poison delivery system or hindrance. Fur is replaced by 
thick, armorlike hide. Eyes lack lids. Skin secretes an oily or slimy substance. 
Talons replace fingernails. Teeth drip venom or acid, and the Dancer could 
even have arachnid fangs. 
The deformity might confer a mechanical advantage of some sort, such 
as the spines, venom or armorlike skin. Simply write these up as Gifts and give 
those Gifts to the relevant Dancers. 
Mental Abnormalities 
Almost every Dancer should be a bit screwed up in the head. They’re 
subjected to brutality and degradation, and they regularly commit atrocities 
the likes of which most people have never seen. They go through mind- 
shattering experiences in the Shattered Labyrinth. Emotions such as 
compassion, sympathy or pity are seen as dangerous weaknesses. They’re 
twisted and remade by the Wyrm in its own image, and many of them share 
a painful sympathy for the Wyrm’s madness. In addition, the radiation, toxic 
waste and inbreeding undoes their brain chemistry as well as their bodies. This 
is why the listing of mental disorders that follows is fairly long. If all of your 
Dancers have the same derangements, they’ll start to sound alike. 
When you play with mental disorders, start small and subtle. Avoid 
“cute” mental problems; they’re entirely inappropriate for the existence that 
the Dancers lead. Mental illness is scary both for the mentally ill and those 
around them, particularly among huge, clawed, sharp-toothed werewolves 
who can tear you apart without a second thought. Play with small details and 
oddities and build up to a large, scary picture, rather than throwing all sorts 
of extreme behavior out at once. Dancers may have symptoms of a mental 
illness (or of more than one) without having the full-blown disorder. Plenty 
of mental problems cannot be classified easily. 
Most Dancers suffer from at least a little bit of brain-weirdness. Mood 
disorders alone strike about one in 10 normal people. They must be all the 
more prevalent among creatures that abuse substances, subject themselves to 
mystically mind-altering experiences, and grow up in abusive homes. Dancers 
are moody or temperamental. They have insomnia or nightmares, or their 
minds flash back to the abuse they suffered at the hands of their tribesmen or 
Kinfolk. 
Some Dancers experience periods of disconnection, during which they 
might hurt themselves just to be sure that they’re real. They could have 
“flattened affect” - 
a lack of visible emotion. Maybe they have tendencies 
toward the hypochondriacal, imagining illnesses that aren’t there or exagger- 
atingones that are, orexperiencingphantompain. They suffer from exaggerated 
weight gain and loss in cycle with their moods. They experience “religious 
feelings,” imagining that they possess tremendous power. They become 
hyper-sexual, or they loathe the very thought of sexual contact. Their 
thought processes always seem just a step out-of-synch with everyone else’s, 
making them difficult to follow and make sense of. 
19 


Disorders are mental problems that are extreme enough to seriously 
impair performance or thinking in some way, and they’re surprisingly com- 
mon among Black Spiral Dancers. Psychology isn’t an exact science -some 
of the items listed here will be found as their own disorders, or as symptoms 
of other disorders. 
A Mote on Roleplaying Mental Oisorbers 
A number of these ailments involve interaction with another person, and 
some of the behavior involved is not appropriate for Mind’s Eye Theatre 
beyond verbal description at most. If a “victim” is uncomfortable with what 
is going on, it should stop. Right away. No arguments; no back-talk. Just do it. 
If the Storyteller does not believe that the players are mature enough to 
handle some of these disorders, then she may disallow them. People play to 
have fun, not to traumatize each other. 
Anxiety Oisorbers 
It is fairly common for one Dancer to have more than one anxiety disorder 
at a time. Some anxiety disorders may be triggered by childhood or adult 
incidents; others are due to substance abuse or medical conditions. Anxiety 
can range from mild nervousness and worry to all-out panic attacks, which can 
include the inability to breathe and chest pains, mimicking a heart attack. 
Acute Stress Disorder: This disorder is much like Post-Traumatic Stress 
Disorder, but it begins during or immediately after the triggering event and is 
of limited duration (less than a month). 
Agoraphobia: Fear of public situations and places where the person might 
have trouble escaping or getting help if he becomes anxious. 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder: General tense or anxious feelings. 
Panic Disorder: Repeated panic attacks, worry about having additional 
panic attacks, mental and behavioral changes related to the attacks. 
Social Phobia: Fear of embarrassment related to a public behavior, such as 
writing, speaking or eating in public. 
Specific Phobia: Fear of a specific object or situation, such as heights, 
insects, storms, airplanes, enclosed spaces, blood, situations that could lead to 
the development of an illness etcetera. 
a e Iw s i on s 
A delusion is a false belief that cannot be explained by the education or 
culture of the person. The sufferer cannot be convinced that his belief is 
wrong, even when presented with what should be convincing evidence. Some 
may even become violent with repeated attempts to show them the truth. 
Various types of delusions exist, including: 
Diseuse: The Dancer believes that he has a terrible disease. 
Erotomantic: The Dancer believes that someone is in love with him 
who clearly isn’t. 
80 


Grandeur: The Dancer believes himself to be of great importance and 
station, to have special knowledge or power, or to have a relationship with 
someone important or famous. 
Guilt: The Dancer believes he has done some unpardonable, terrible thing. 
Jealousy: The Dancer believes that someone has been unfaithful. (This 
is usually taken to mean marital infidelity, but in the case of the Dancers, it 
can refer to infidelity to the Wyrm.) 
Passivity: The Dancer believes that he is controlled and manipulated by 
an outside source (usually one of the Urge Wyrms). 
Persecution: The Dancer believes that his actions and life are being 
interfered with by unknown outside parties. 
Poverty: The Dancer believes that he is on the brink of bankruptcy, 
despite having money. 
Reference: The Dancer thinks that everyone is talking about him, 
particularly sources such as newspaper articles and TV programs. 
Somatic: The Dancer perceives odd physical sensations (odors, the 
sensation of insects crawling on him), but without physical evidence. 
Thought-Control: The Dancer thinks that someone is putting thoughts 
into his head (again, usually one of the Urge Wyrms). 
O 
is so cia t i ve O i  
sor be r s 
In dissociation, some of the Dancer’s thoughts, behaviors or feelings 
become removed from conscious awareness and control. The episodes usually 
begin and end suddenly, they are often precipitated by stress, and they 
generally involve a disturbance of memory. 
Depersonalization Disorder: The Dancer experiences episodes of detach- 
ment, as if observing his own behavior from outside of himself. This usually 
does not include memory loss. 
Dissociative Amnesia: The Dancer cannot remember important informa- 
tion, usually details of a personal nature. This dissociation may be localized 
(an entire time period), or selective (pieces of a time period related to a 
particular subject). 
Dissociative Fugue: The Dancer travels away from home suddenly and 
cannot recall details related to where he is and how he got there. He may also 
not remember all the details of his own identity. 
Dissociative Identity Disorder: Additional identities may take control of 
the Dancer’s behavior. (See also Multiple-Personality Disorder. ) 
Woby-Relate8 misorbers 
Addiction: Addiction to alcohol and drugs is often as much a mental 
problem as it is a physical problem. One determines whether an addiction is 
actually a mental illness by examining how much it interferes with the 
individual’s life, work and relationships. 
81 


Eating Disorders: Abnormal eating behaviors include: Anorexia Nervosa, 
in which a person sees herself as fat despite being underweight, and Bulimia 
Nervosa, in which a person binges on food and then makes up for it with 
vomiting, purging and excessive exercise. Some Dancers also experience 
hunger for non-food or “inappropriate” items, such as dung, plastic or dirt. 
Factitious Disorder: The Dancer fakes symptoms of illness, not to obtain 
anything material (money, revenge, avoidance of responsibility), but simply 
out of a need or desire to occupy the role of a sick person. Manufactured 
symptoms, particularly those of new and little-known or mental illnesses, can 
be very difficult to detect. This is also called Munchuusen syndrome. People 
who project symptoms of illness onto other people (typically their children) 
are said to have Munchuusen syndrome by proxy. 
Hallucinations 
Hallucinations are false sensory impressions. They can affect any of the 
senses, but it’s rare for them to be anything but auditory or visual. People who 
are hallucinating often go to great lengths to avoid proving the unreality of 
their hallucinations. For example, someone hallucinating an unwelcome 
person would avoid trying to shake that person’s hand. People also tend to 
hallucinate things that it will be easy for them to believe in. So a Dancer on 
the subway is more likely to hallucinate seeing a man with a gun than a pink 
elephant. Auditory hallucinations are the classic “hearing voices,” although 
it could just as easily be the sound of a buzzing fly or running water. 
Impulse-Control Oisorbers 
A number of disorders that really don’t fit anywhere else get lumped 
under this classification. Most (if not all) of these disorders are characterized 
by a cycle of tension and release. The tension builds up until the Dancer 
engages in the activity, at which point he relaxes. Episodes often occur at 
regular intervals, although stress can speed up the schedule or trigger episodes. 
The Dancer may also engage in the activity to make himself feel better when 
he’s upset. This tension-release cycle is also experienced by some serial killers. 
Intermittent Explosive Disorder: This Dancer has episodes in which he acts 
out aggressively, destroying property and harming others. This is particularly 
prevalent among Dancers. 
Kleptomania: An irresistible need to steal things. 
Pathological Gambling: Gambling to the point of losing jobs, friendships 
Pyromania: The need to set fires. 
Trichotillomania: Pulling hair out of one’s body, sometimes accompanied 
and marriages. 
by swallowing the hair. 
Woob Oisorbers 
A “mood episode” is a period of time in which a patient feels abnormally 
happy or sad, lasting for at least two weeks, but perhaps for months at a time. 
82 


Depressive episodes involve feelings of sadness and worthlessness, problems 
eating and sleeping, lack of energy, guilt feelings, problems concentrating and 
repeated thoughts of death or suicidal tendencies. Manic episodes involve 
elation or irritation. The sufferer may be talkative, hyperactive, grandiose or 
easily distracted, and she usually has very bad judgment. She may spend 
ridiculous amounts of money or stay up all night cleaning. In extreme cases, 
hallucinations may be involved. 
Most people with mood disorders either have only depressive epi- 
sodes or both; patients with both have “bipolar disorder.” Mood 
disorders are very common, they interfere with people’s lives more than 
most people realize, and they often come packaged with other disorders. 
Some patients with mood disorders attempt to “self-medicate” with 
alcohol or illegal drugs, leading to addictions. Mania may also be 
associated with flights of creativity, and bipolar disorder is highly 
correlated with intelligence. 
Multiple-Personality Oisorber 
(Oissociative Jbentity Oisorber) 
The Dancer with Dissociative Identity Disorder has at least two differ- 
ent and distinct personalities, but the number has been known to go as 
high as 200. For ease of roleplaying it is recommended to keep the number 
small. These personalities may be fairly complete, including their own 
names, or they may be symbolic of aconcept. They may vary in gender, age 
and style, such as a wizened elder, a rough-and-tumble boy, a battle- 
scarred veteran and a timid little girl. Some of the personalities are often 
unaware of others, or only partially aware of them. 
The transition between personalities is usually brought on by stress 
and is often sudden. This disorder usually begins during childhood, 
occurs predominantly among women, and is highly correlated with 
sexual abuse. Each personality must have its own different way of 
thinking about and relating to its environment. If a personality is not 
aware of the other(s), it will see the missing time as blank spots in its 
memories. 
Obsessive-Compulsive Oisorber t O C 0 )  
Take Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder in two parts. Obsessions are things 
that dominate a person’s thoughts. Compulsions are actions that a person 
cannot help repeating, even though she realizes that they’re inappropriate or 
useless. The Dancer with OCD who is prevented from performing his 
compulsion becomes tense and prone to frenzy. 
Compulsions range from the simple (checking the stove for hours after 
every use to make sure the burners are off) to the unbelievably complex 
(bedtime rituals that take hours to perform). The compulsion always relates 
to the obsession. The person who checks the stove repeatedly may have 
obsessive thoughts about his house burning down. 
83 


Paraphilias 
Paraphilias are sexual behaviors that are seen as abnormal. Some of these 
may also exist as “normal” sexual behavior. The dividing line is usually 
whether or not the activity interferes with the person’s life, work and 
relationships. Most paraphilias begin during adolescence, and if not con- 
trolled, they can lead to trouble with the law. The Storyteller can leave these 
disorders out of the game entirely if the players aren’t able or don’t want to 
handle them. 
Exhibitionism: The urge to expose oneself to a stranger who doesn’t expect it. 
Pedophilia: Sexual urges related to children. 
SedMasochism: Sexual desires related to being humiliated, bound or injured. 
Sexuul Sdsm: Sexual desires involving the infliction of suffering or 
Voyeurism: The urge to view unsuspecting people naked or involved in 
humiliation on someone else (another common disorder among Dancers). 
sexual activity. 
Personality Oisorbers 
Personality disorders are clusters of personality traits that are rigid and 
that interfere with a Dancer’s life. They are present from early adult life. 
They’re normal personality traits and behaviors, taken to an extreme. 
Antisocial: Irresponsibility, criminal behavior, truancy, cruelty, destruc- 
tiveness, theft, lying, recklessness, impulsiveness and lack of remorse. 
Avoidant: Timidity, inability to handle criticism and easily embarrassed. 
Borderline: Impulsiveness, boredom, emptiness, fear of abandonment, 
unstable relationships, threats of suicide and intense, inappropriate anger. 
Dependent: Inability to make independent decisions, fear of abandon- 
ment, and feeling of helplessness when alone; often easily hurt, and will go to 
great lengths to gain others’ approval. 
Histrionic: Emotionalism, vagueness, need for attention and reassurance 
of attractiveness, self-centered behavior and seductiveness. 
NUTC~SS~S~~C: 
Self-importance, envy, feeling of uniqueness, lack of empa- 
thy, need for constant attention, sense of entitlement, taking advantage of 
others and rejection of criticism. 
Obsessive-Compulsive: Perfectionism, rigidity, workaholic tendencies, 
preoccupation with detail, indecision, lack of generosity, pack-rat tendencies 
and difficulties expressing affection. 
Paranoid: Very suspicious, believes that he is being victimized by others, 
takes offense easily, with few close friends. 
Schizoid: Lack of concern for social relationships, limited range of 
emotion, lack of concern about praise or criticism and solitary tendencies. 
Schizotypal: Discomfort in social situations, suspicion, eccentricity and 
inappropriate emotions. Schizotypal Dancers tend to be seen as thinking and 
feeling in “alien” ways. 
84 


Post-Traumatic Stress Oisorber 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is extremely common among Dancers, 
who have often lived through particularly terrible experiences. People with 
F’TSD survived severely traumatic events such as rape, molestation, wartime 
atrocities, torture or any extended and extreme fear for their lives. 
After some delay, the person then relives the event - 
typically through 
repeated flashbacks or nightmares. The sufferer has a physiological reaction, 
which usually involves high heart rate, increased startle response, insomnia 
and/ or extreme temper. He does his best to distance himself from the event 
through detachment and possible loss of memory regarding the event. 
This may result in the Dancer cycling back and forth. One month he’s 
wrapped up in flashbacks and nightmares, unable to shake his memories. He 
lashes out at loud noises and can’t sleep. The next month, he has completely 
repressed the memories, or he may have convinced himself that he’s dealt with 
his problem and it’s okay now - 
until the next time he cycles around again. 
Psychosis an8 Schizophrenia 
Psychosis usually shows up as part of another disorder, or in response to 
extreme stress. It may involve delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech 
or disorganized or catatonic behavior. Shared Psychotic Disorder is an ex- 
tremely rare state in which several people (generally from the same family) 
share psychotic symptoms. Usually only one person is actually psychotic, but 
the others have come to share and believe in that person’s delusions and 
experiences. As Dancers often isolate themselves from society at least in part, 
this disorder is more common among them than the general population. 
Schizophrenia is a type of psychotic disorder. Before becoming psychotic the 
Dancer was probably withdrawn, or in other ways had a “strange” personality. 
The illness itself startedgradually. It may have started with beliefs that were odd, 
but not quite odd enough to be considered psychotic. It probably moved from 
there to delusions or hallucinations. The illness causes severe problems with 
work and relationships. Subtypes of schizophrenia include puramid schizophrenia, 
disorganized schizophrenia and Catatonic schizophrenia. 
Disorganizeductions are physical actions that don’t seem to have any point 
or motivation, from taking off clothes in public to making the sign of the cross 
repeatedly and without reason. This is typically a symptom of other disorders, 
such as psychosis and schizophrenia. 
Disorganized speech is speech governed by rhymes, puns or completely 
inobvious rules. It is speech that doesn’t follow logical thought patterns. It 
must clearly interfere with communication. This is typically a symptom of 
other disorders, such as psychosis and schizophrenia. 
Sleeping Oisorbers 
Sleeping Disorders may exist as symptoms of more complex disorders 
or by themselves. 
85 


Circadian Rhythm Sleep Disorder: The Dancer’s biological clock is out of 
step with that which is normal for society. 
Hypersomnia: Sleeping too much. 
Insomnia: Sleeping too little. 
Narcolepsy: Sleeping at the wrong times; usually the person falls asleep 
almost instantly, sometimes even when standing up. 
Nightmure Disorder: Particularly bad dreams. 
Sleep Terror Disorder: The Dancer may not wake up during the night, but 
Sleepwalking Disorder: Persistent sleepwalking, usually early in the night. 
his nightmares terrify him to the point of crying out in his sleep. 
Cilane Totems 
As always, the best place to start when creating Black Spiral Dancer 
fodder is the Garou. Take a Garou totem or two and twist them. Plenty of 
totems, if taken a little too far, would make fantastic Bane totems. 
Alternatively, start with evil creatures from myth and legend and write 
them up in totem terms. 
Cotems of Cunning 
Black Spiral Dancers who follow totems of cunning are masters of false 
logic and deceit, followers of the Fourth Circle. Totems of cunning typically 
require seemingly impossible quests from those who would follow them, often 
involving a spectacular theft, abduction or betrayal. 
Aucol (Arctic Fox Kit) 
cost: 4 
Aucol is a tiny kit, small enough to fit in a person’s outstretched palms. 
His fur is bone-white, and his eyes are milky jade. There is always something 
a little wrong about his behavior; his emotions never quite fit the circum- 
stance. At times, Aucol exhibits a childlike mischief and deviousness; at 
others, he displays a cold, calculated cunning. He cycles back and forth 
between these moods over the course of hours or even minutes. He expects his 
followers to outsmart their opponents, and he looks down on those who win 
their battles through strength rather than smarts. Therefore, his followers lag 
behind in Glory Renown. 
Traits: Aucol teaches his followers the Gift: A Thousand Voices and 
gives them one Willpower Trait, as well as the Mental Trait: Creative. His 
followers gradually develop bipolar disorder. 
Ban: Followers of Aucol may not solve a problem through sheer 
strength of arms unless all other options have been exhausted, or the use of 
strength is simply a step in a cunning plan. 
86 


Kirijama, “ T h e  Hibben Foe” 
cost: 7 
Kirijama can materialize only in the physical world as a faint shadow. He 
manipulates darkness to deceive his enemies by creating imaginary foes. He 
may also appear in the Umbra in a form just beyond the senses of Garou, seen 
as a fleeting shadow in the corner of the eye. Most of the Garou believe that 
Kirijama was destroyed long ago. 
Kirijama’s followers prefer to stay hidden when attending Dancer Moots, 
appearing only as shadows on the wall. Only one member of the pack may 
speak for it at any time, and then only as a faint whisper. 
Dancers who follow Kirijama prefer the use of subtlety, intrigue, subterfuge, 
trickery and politics to outright displays of physical prowess and combat. They 
particularly delight in tricking the Garou into defeating themselves, or setting 
the Garou up for a quick fall when more combat-oriented Dancers arrive. 
Traits: Kirijama’s followers learn the Gift: Invisibility. Unlike most 
Garou, they have the ability to cast false shadows and leave odd clues of their 
presence when using this Gift. They also gain the Ability: Stealth x 2. 
Ban: Kirijama’s followers are denied the fame of renown, even within 
their own Hive. Therefore, they rise in rank slowly. They care about their 
renown only among the followers of Kirijama, and their achievements are 
recognized only immediately before a transmogrification. 
T h e  Whippoorwill 
Cost: 6 
The whippoorwill is a nocturnal bird with insight into the mysteries of 
the world, particularly those involving death. Legend has it that the whip- 
poorwill eats the souls of mortals as they die. The Whippoorwill totem seeks 
out souls weak enough for the Wyrm to devour or convert, particularly Garou 
who are losing the battle against Harano. Aspirit guided by this totem advises 
its Dancer servitors on how they may best bring the falling Garou to the 
Shattered Labyrinth. 
The followers of Whippoorwill spend most of their time working on the 
corruption of Garou, bringing as many as they can to the Labyrinth. These 
Dancers specialize in long, slow, careful corruption by means of trickery, 
deceit and fear. 
Traits: Whippoorwill gives its followers the ability to imitate all known 
species of birds, and Dancers who follow Whippoorwill use perverted birdsongs 
instead of howls. Whippoorwill grants his followers two levels of Blind 
Fighting, usable only at night or in darkness. 
Ban: Followers of Whippoorwill must hold a moot in his honor twice 
every year, at which they sacrifice a spiritually corrupted mortal to the 
Shattered Labyrinth. Followers of Whippoorwill must also avoid harming 
birds of any kind, including Corax. The torture of those who prey on birds will 
gain its favor. 
87 


Cotems of Strength 
Packs that serve totems of strength are not incapable of cunning and 
deceit; they just prefer the simplicity of combat. These totems usually require 
the brutal victimization of an innocent or a brilliant victory in combat, before 
they’ll accept new followers. 
T h e  &at 
cost: 4 
The Bat makes her home in the Shattered Labyrinth itself, and her voice 
mocks those who fail its tests or lose their way within the twisting passages. 
She uses her comfort in and familiarity with the darkness to torment the lost 
and uncertain, spreading terror wherever she goes. Her followers prefer to 
attack under cover of darkness, using surprise to their advantage. 
Bat’s followers preserve the Veil fanatically, since it embodies all of their 
values of stealth, survival and surprise. They would rather pass up an 
opportunity to harm the Garou than rend the Veil. They even act to prevent 
others from rending the Veil as well. These Dancers have the least love for the 
Sabbat, and they are unwilling to work with them except when it is necessary 
to survival. 
Traits: Bat grants her followers a level each of Intimidation, Stealth and 
Survival. Dancers who follow her path find the Second and Third Circles of 
the Labyrinth difficult, but she rewards them later by granting them patagia, 
skin-flaps that allow the Dancer to glide on the wind. 
Ban: Each pack that follows the Bat must breed and keep a small family 
of bats, devouring insects themselves whenever the bats feed. They must also 
preserve the Veil. 
T h e  Green Oragon 
cost: 9 
The Green Dragon is a monstrosity and a force of pure power. It cares only 
to destroy its foes through the use of overwhelming force, and its rage scorches 
the very Earth. Pure, unadulterated, frenzied combat is this totem’s great love, 
and its servants seek nothing less than mastery of the Second and Fifth Circles 
both. Those who worship the Green Dragon would not dare consider 
themselves his followers - 
they are his servants. 
Traits: Servants of the Green Dragon can breathe toxic flames up to three 
times a day, and if the attack succeeds, it inflicts two health levels of aggravated 
damage. The Green Dragon gifts his followers with two extra Healthy health 
levels and the Negative Mental Trait: Vioknt. The servants of the Green Dragon 
are revered among the warriors of the Black Spiral Dancers. 
Ban: Any servant of the Dragon who flees combat loses all bonuses 
associated with serving the Green Dragon for a full month. If the cowardice 
is particularly noteworthy, the Green Dragon may command his other 
servants to hunt the offender down and torture him. 
88 


Hakaken "The H cart of Fear" 
cost: 5 
Hakaken was a corrupted Shadow Lord Ahroun. His overconfi- 
dence in his ability to defeat the forces of the Wyrm caused him to 
attempt to defeat the Shattered Labyrinth. Dancer legend has it that he 
danced to the threshold of the Sixth Circle o n  his very first 
transmogrification. He is one of only two Dancers to ever have made it 
to the center of the Labyrinth. The experience destroyed his sanity so 
utterly that he became an Incarna. 
Hakaken's followers instill fear and madness in their foes, and they have 
been known to paint themselves in blood before entering battle, the better to 
terrify their opponents. They utter awful, alien war cries as they charge. Some 
Shadow Lord cults secretly worship Hakaken. 
Traits: Hakaken gifts his followers with a level of Intimidation and the 
Gifts True Fear and Icy Chill of Despair. 
Ban: The followers of Hakaken must instill fear into their opponents 
before they are allowed to slay them. 
Totems of Corruption 
These totems serve the Defiler Wyrm, and they revel in corruption, 
foulness and despair. Their followers prefer infamy to fame and revulsion 
to glory, and they care little for the Veil when they can get away with 
rending it. They rely on the Delirium to cover up the worst of their 
atrocities. These totems require from those who would follow them vile 
acts of corruption, such as the infusion of a forest with toxic waste, the 
establishment of a dark cult and the corruption of a true innocent. The 
more powerful the totem is, the more ingenious or atrocious the act must 
be in order to catch its attention. 
Cat e r pillar 
cost: 4 
The caterpillar devours all life set before him. His followers commit acts 
that drain the life and hope from those whom they victimize. Those whom 
they victimize then victimize others in turn and spread their pain along, 
continuing the cycle. The followers of Caterpillar are required to spill their 
own blood during each Moot Rite, rather than someone else's. 
Traits: Caterpillar teaches all of his followers the Rite of the Survivor 
and the Rite of the False Memory. 
Ban: Caterpillar's followers are not allowed to help anyone who does 
not serve the Wyrm. They may not commit any act of kindness unless it is a 
direct lead-in to an act of victimization. Some carry this ban to an extreme, 
refusing to help other Dancers unless there is an element ofpain or destruction 
involved, or at least a price to be paid. 
89 


C h e  O a r  k Fungus, “His Mycological Majesty” 
cost: 3 
Those Dancers who serve the Dark Fungus farm mushrooms and lichen 
in the Umbral reflections of the tunnels beneath their Hives. Spirits imbue 
these fungi with psychoactive chemicals. Only followers of the Dark Fungus 
may eat these wonders, gaining great insight and losing sanity. Any Dancer 
who eats a fungus and fails a Physical Challenge gains a mental disorder and 
experiences a terrifying and potentially deadly bad trip. 
Followers of the Dark Fungus use drugs to corrupt humans and Garou 
alike. He occasionally allows them to mix tiny amounts of the special fungi 
with traditionally “harmless” drugs. They use these special mixes to lead 
people farther down the road of addiction and corruption. 
Traits: The Dark Fungus bestows one level of Enigmas and Occult to its 
bastards. Its followers typically have access to an incredible stash of drugs. 
Ban: Followers of the Dark Fungus must tend to and protect any sort of 
growing mushrooms when they find them. Ironically, this has led to some 
Dancers protecting wild areas. 
Ci‘louogh, ‘ T h e  O u n c e  of Corruption’’ 
Cost: 15 
G’louogh appears as an ever-shifting ball of energy, continually forming 
and reforming anatomical horrors. Some worship her as a twisted fertility 
goddess. Her followers say that she spawns an army of evil Banes at the center 
of the universe, and she can spawn Jagglings and Gafflings easily by splitting 
off a piece of her terrible form. The Nexus Crawlers are the most deadly of her 
children, and they do her bidding with glee. 
G’louogh’s followers work on a way to make the Black Spiral Dancer 
metis fertile. They also abduct Garou, Kinfolk and humans to serve as breeders 
for the Dancers. 
Traits: G’louogh grants her followers the Gift: Dagger of the Mind. 
Ban: G’louogh‘s followers must act capriciously and independently; they 
may not support the status quo. They must also sacrifice one mutilated body 
part each month. If they cannot find a victim, G’louogh will choose one at 
random from the pack. 
Relshab, ‘ T h e  Faceless Later” 
cost: 10 
This Bane totem appears to its followers as a huge, anthropomorphic 
hermaphrodite covered in rolls of flesh that crawl and ripple in sick waves. 
Relshab is called faceless because roiling layers of fat obscure its face. Its right arm 
is a tube that allows it to ingest any substance. The palm of its left hand shows 
a chittering maw of teeth that constantly demands flesh from its followers. It’s 
hard to say which is more appalling - 
its hungers or its sexual activities. 
90 
I 
! 
6 
4 
I 
4. 
i 
I 


Traits: Relshab teaches its bastards the Gift: Whelp Body, allowing 
them to “eat”portions of avictim’s soul. If the Dancercan humiliate her target 
sexually, she can drain two Traits of Willpower. By spending a Gnosis Trait, 
the Dancer can consume anything smaller than her head, including body 
parts, steel, toxic waste, tires, anything. 
Ban: Relshab‘s servitors must consume any edible substance placed 
before them. They are also ordered to fight Unseelie redcaps on sight. 
Gifts of the Wyrm 
Just as Garou learn Gifts from spirits, Black Spiral Dancers learn Gifts 
from Wyrm spirits, often during their time in the Shattered Labyrinth. Black 
Spiral Dancers can take Garou Gifts, particularly if they were “converted” 
rather than born into the Danc 
not take those Gifts that draw on 
ctly normal Gifts, so 
head-twisting things 
heralding a threat to 
learn Gifts that 
Wyrm spirit were to giv 
goals be? What would it 
it want the Gift to force or 
to deliver its message? 
cer, what would its 
alack Spiral Gifts 
dasic Gifts 
Bane Protector: The Dancer can summon Banes to aid her, but she 
must convince them that her actions are in the best interest of the Wyrm 
before they will act in her favor. These Banes can fight for the Dancer, but 
they will not allow themselves to be destroyed or bound. They prefer to 
bargain and extract services in return for their aid. A Dancer learns this Gift 
in the First Circle of the Shattered Labyrinth, or after he performs a 
particularly difficult task for a Bane totem. This Gift requires the expenditure 
of a Gnosis Trait and a Social Challenge. 
Madness Induction: The Dancer induces a mental disorder in 
himself. The Dancers believe that madness is the blessing of the Wyrm, so 
many Dancers revere the ability to enter such altered mental states at will. 
91 


When he learns this Gift, the Dancer must choose three disorders that it will 
trigger; the Gift bestows one at random when activated. This Gift lasts one 
scene and requires the Dancer to succeed in a Mental Challenge. This Gift 
lends the Dancer flashes of cryptic insight into a situation. 
Wyrm Hide: The Dancer hardens his skin into a leathery hide, 
which causes his flesh to become discolored and covered with sores. This Gift 
is taught in the Second Circle of the Labyrinth, and it can also be taught by 
spirits associated with pain. The Dancer spends a Rage Trait while stomping 
about and taunting his enemies, and he gains three extra Healthy health 
levels in doing so. These levels are the first to absorb any damage, and they 
last until they are damaged or the session ends, whichever comes first. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Beautiful Lie: The Dancer uses this Gift to channel and strengthen the 
Delirium, producing misdirection or false evidence to cover up his atrocities. 
A Dancer who recruits servants to aid in the schemes of Kirijama or Hakaken 
may be rewarded with this Gift. Dancers who engage in an ingenious dance 
of cunning in the Labyrinth may also be taught this Gift. The Dancer who 
wishes to cover up a crime activates this Gift by chanting a story of what he 
wants the humans to see, spends a Gnosis Trait, then makes a Static Mental 
Challenge against eight Traits (retest with Perfwmance). Mass delusions and 
ephemeral evidence (bloody footprints, saliva from a rabid dog, etc.) may 
occur for up to an hour to cover up the truth. This Gift only works on those 
who are susceptible to the Delirium. 
Call Elemental: As the Uktena Gift, but the Dancer’s call is always 
answered by a Wyrm elemental. See Laws of the Wild. 
Dagger of the Mind: The Dancer commands a Bane to seed a dark 
emotion (which must be chosen when the Gift is learned) in the mind of his 
prey. Options include paranoia, lust, greed, despair, depression, remorse and 
so on. “Rage” is not an option, although anger is. The Dancer calls upon the 
relevant Urge Wyrm, and one of its servitors evokes the emotion in the 
victim. This Gift is taught in the Third Circle of the Labyrinth. It may be used 
to weaken enemies before battle or to give the Dancer anedge innegotiations. 
This Gift requires the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait and a Static Social 
Challenge against sevenTraits (retest with Intimidation). If the Dancer spends 
a Willpower Trait, the madness is accompanied by a brief revelatory halluci- 
nation. The target remains afflicted for an hour, but he may spend Willpower 
as normal to allow for brief lucidity. 
Disguise Deformity: This Gift allows a Dancer to cause his own 
physical deformities to disappear temporarily. The effects last for one scene, 
and they require the expenditure of one Gnosis Trait per deformity that the 
Dancer wishes to disguise. During that time, the Dancer’s body behaves in all 
ways as though the deformity did not exist. (As an alternative, aversion of this 
Gift that acts in form only, causing the body to function as though it still bore 
the deformity, could be taken as a Basic Gift.) Most Dancers who learn this 
92 


Gift hide that fact from their fellows; they may be seen as being ashamed of 
their “blessings.” 
Open Wounds: As the Shadow Lord Gift. See Laws of the Wild. 
Sharing Madness: The Dancer spends one Willpower Trait, and he must 
best his target in a Mental Challenge. If he succeeds, his target suffers one of the 
Dancer’s mental disorders (Dancer’s choice). This effect lasts for one session. 
Unseelie Faerie Kin: The Dancer may call onunseelie changelings to aid 
him. This Gift is taught only by Unseelie nobles or members of the Shadow 
Court, and usually only in return for a quest of some sort or the ability to summon 
the Dancer’s pack. This Gift requires a Social Challenge and the expenditure of 
a Gnosis Trait, and the Dancer must convince his ally to help. Putting on a good 
show is more important than having good reasons, and attempts to convince are 
often accompanied by stories, songs or violent displays. 
Aboanceb Gifts 
Totem Form: The Dancer takes on the appearance (and much of the 
power) of the pack‘s Bane totem. A follower of the DarkFungus might grow 
molds and toadstools in place of fur and radiate hallucinogenic spores, while 
a follower of the Green Dragon might take on a dragonlike war form. This Gift 
is taught only by the pack‘s totem spirit, and to only one Dancer per pack (the 
one who pleases the totem most). This Gift requires a Physical Challenge and 
the expenditure of one Willpower Trait. It takes a full turn to transform, and 
the transformation lasts for one scene. The appearance and abilities of the 
totem form are up to the Storyteller. 
Ragabash Gifts 
dusic Gifts 
Defuse Tension: The Dancers and their allies experience many 
differences of opinion. The Dancer with this Gift uses laughter and jokes to 
defuse tension, bringing a potentially violent situation back under control. 
The Dancer spends a Willpower Trait and says or does something funny. If he 
succeeds at a Mental Challenge, then the targets find themselves inclined to 
laugh and the tension dissipates for the rest of the scene. New events and 
differences, however, can bring the tension level back up again. Ragabash 
with this Gift are often included in joint efforts with Dancer allies. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Touch of the Eel: The Dancer releases a current of electricity 
through any conductive materials nearby. Anyone who touches him receives 
an even greater shock. The Ragabash must capture and torture an electricity 
elemental until it offers him this Gift. The Gift requires the expenditure of 
one Rage Trait to release one charge. The charge can carry up to 30 yards if 
it is transmitted through a good conductor. At adistance, it inflicts two health 
levels of lethal damage; by touch, it inflicts three levels. 
93 


Theurge Gifts 
Wasic Gifts 
Distract Spirit: This Dancer approaches a spirit to speak with it 
anddraws its attention to himselffor a maximumofone scene. Doing so allows 
his packmates to slip past or sneak up on the spirit. Dancers who want to slip 
through Garou defenses often use this Gift. The Dancer must spend a 
Willpower Trait and win a Social Challenge. 
Intermebiate Gifts 
Blood Omen: The Dancer examines the entrails of a freshly killed creature 
to gain insight into a possible future. The vision is almost always tragic or violent. 
A Theurge typically receives this Gift during the Dance of Cunning, and she may 
even experience seeing her body being ritually dismembered and being asked to 
read her ownorgans. This Gift is activated through the expenditure of one Gnosis 
Trait and a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty based on the type of creature; 
retest with Enigmas). If the Dancer uses anormal animal the visions are enigmatic 
or indistinct. If she uses a Garou or human, the visions are clear. 
@hilobox Gifts 
@lasic Gifts 
Smell Fear: This Dancer can tell if anyone nearby feels threatened by her, 
as well as the degree of the fear. For each Gnosis Trait the Dancer expends, this 
effect lasts for one hour. This Gift requires a successful Mental Challenge. As a 
side effect, the Dancer can tell if anyone uses Sense Wyrm on her. 
A Thousand Voices: The Dancer creates small, minor illusions, primarily 
sound (howls and footfalls), but some shadowy apparitions and faint scents as 
well. The Dancer spends one Willpower Trait to activate this Gift, and it lasts for 
a maximum of one scene. He may create only as many illusions as he has 
permanent Willpower Traits. Supernatural senses respond unexpectedly to these 
illusions. Enhanced hearing may struggle to find the sound of footsteps, while 
enhanced smelling may become overwhelmed by the stench of old blood. The 
Dancer must remain hidden for this Gift to work. If he is spotted, the Gift fails. 
Galliar3 Gifts 
@@sic Gifts 
Cover Scent: For as long as the Dancer sings or otherwise puts on 
an artistic performance (which does not involve direct violence or combat), 
his scent will seem normal to Garou. This Gift works against Sense Wyrm and 
Scent of the True Form. The moment the performance ends (maximum 
duration of one scene), such abilities produce their usual good results on the 
Dancer. This Gift requires the expenditure of a Willpower Trait. 
94 


Intermebiate Gifts 
Allies Below: The Dancer lets forth a great cry, and the spirits below 
answer him. Wyrm creatures far beneath the Earth‘s crust cause tremors and 
minor quakes in the ground above. Expending one Gnosis Trait causes minor 
tremors, possibly enough to knock someone to the ground. Expending two 
Gnosis Traits collapses underground tunnels, knocks down trees and open small 
sinkholes. Expending three Gnosis Traits causes structural damage to buildings. 
Ahroun Gifts 
Wasic Gifts 
Horns of the Impaler: The Black Spiral Dancer grows a pair of 
spiraling, chitinous horns. This feature is usually a permanent fixture that 
shows up in all but the Dancer’s breed form; it adjusts to the size of the form. 
The horns are generally worn as antlers. They cause damage as a bite attack, 
and they may be used a maximum of twice per round of combat. 
Rites ana Rituals 
Black Spiral Dancers are creatures of faith and devotion, even if their 
religion is avery different one from that of the untainted Garou. Dancers have 
rites, rituals and sorceries of their own. Rites work much the same way that 
Garou rites do. The ritemaster leads other Dancers in a rite; only the 
ritemaster needs to know the rite. See the rules for Garou rites for specifics on 
Trait requirements, length of rites and minimum number of participants. 
Not all rites are meant to have noticeable in-game effects or effects on 
mechanics. Some exist for roleplaying purposes as much as anything. Remem- 
ber that Black Spiral Dancers are all religious zealots, and the more zealous 
they are, the more ritualistic they’re likely to be in their actions. 
Specific details of how to perform rites are not provided; such scripts tend 
to turn roleplaying into boring games of concentration and memory. Be 
creative with rituals that happen in game. Consider atmosphere, intent and 
how difficult a given ritual should be. 
Creating @if es 
Start with Garou rites and pervert them. Take the Rite of Cleansing as an 
example, a basic rite of accord. This rite removes W p t a i n t  from an area, person 
or object. What would a Dancer version of this rite be like? Perhaps it “cleanses” an 
area of the pure spiritual energy left behind by the Garou, or it taints an area mildly. 
Alternatively, create your own. Start with an effect you’d like to achieve. 
Check the descriptions of the types of rites and see where this effect would fit 
best. Then check Garou and Dancer rites of that category and figure out 
whether the power level should be Basic, Intermediate or Advanced. Use the 
systems provided in other rites as the basis for your new rite. 
95 


Rites of Accorb 
These rites draw their power from the Dancers’ fundamental connection 
to the Wyrm, and they are characterized by taint and corruption. To channel 
this power the Dancer must use a talen, fetish or object that is tainted or 
corrupted. Dancers who have achieved the Sixth Circle of the Shattered 
Labyrinth are immune to this requirement. Rites of accord are based on the 
ritemaster’s Social Traits for making challenges. 
dasic Rites 
Rite of Blood Taint: If the Dancers suspect that someone contains the 
taint of Dancer blood in their heritage, they perform this rite. The ritemaster 
spends one Gnosis Trait. While the target does not need to be present, the 
ritemaster must have possession of something that the target touched within 
the past five days. This rite “activates” the tainted blood subtly, giving 
glimpses of violent and terrifying past lives, or causing Garou or Kinfolk to 
hear voices that urge them to commit atrocities. The stronger the taint of 
blood is, the more pronounced the effects are. A full-blooded Dancer Kinfolk 
might suffer a psychotic break, for example. These effects last for one session. 
Rite of Vice Assumption: Dancers use this rite to uncover a vice or 
weakness in an opponent that might be used to corrupt her. The ritemaster 
spends one Gnosis Trait. For one full session, the vice that is strongest in their 
prey (be it greed, lust, envy or something more specific like gambling or 
alcoholism) is evoked in participating Dancers. The compulsion to follow the 
vice may serve to distract the Dancers from their attentions to their prey, but it 
can also give the Dancers a way into someone’s heart, if they use it cunningly. 
For example, a Dancer uses this rite on a Garou whose chief vice is 
gluttony, appetite for food. For the rest of the session, the Dancer finds that 
he’s always hungry, sometimes for traditionally inappropriate things or for 
items that he doesn’t usually like. 
lntermebiate Rites 
Rite of the Small Push: This rite increases the target’s worst 
urges. The effects are mild, and they last for one session. The idea is to make 
the target believe that everything she did was of her own will, so the effects 
of this rite are not intense or dramatic. Using this rite may serve to push weak 
or guilt-prone people into their own downward spiral or to foul up their 
relationships. The ritemaster chooses one of the following options: He 
spends one Rage Trait to increase the subject’s temper, and the subject 
considers her relevant Traits halved for the purposes of challenges to resist 
frenzy. The ritemaster spends one Willpower Trait to weaken the subject’s 
resistance to temptation, and the subject must spend twice as many Will- 
power Traits as normal in order to resist bad actions. The ritemaster spends 
one GnosisTrait in order to increase one vice in the subject, and the subject’s 
interest in the vice expands accordingly. 
96 


For example, our ritemaster performs this rite on our gluttonous Garou 
from the Rite ofvice Assumption, spending one Gnosis Trait. The Garou finds 
his appetite increased, making it easier for food to distract him from his duties. 
He’s tempted by foods that are inappropriate, such as human flesh or the flesh 
of other shapeshifters. 
Abvunceb Rites 
Rite of Evocation: This rite drastically increases the subject’s 
worst vice (the same one that the Rite ofvice Assumption would uncover) for 
one session. The Ritemaster spends one Rage Trait and one Willpower Trait 
during the ceremony. The target’s vice becomes so pronounced that he has 
little interest in other activities or relationships, and allows it to override 
even common sense. 
For example, this rite is performed on our gluttonous Garou. He goes on 
a rampage of hunger, ignoring his duties, leaving his post and possibly 
attacking a human or fellow Garou in his hunger. During this haze, he may be 
a fine target for a Bane, or he may commit an atrocity that drives him to 
Harano or into the Wyrm’s embrace. 
h n i s k m e n  t ai t e s 
Punishment for a crime or transgression of the Dark Litany is treated very 
differently among the Dancers than among the Garou. The Dancers often 
don’t care about small crimes (or they repay them personally), and they use 
torture and death to repay larger crimes. Therefore, most punishment rites 
have to do with the punishment that Dancers dole out to the innocents 
around them, rather than that which they inflict upon each other. 
Rite of the Survivor: This rite is bestowed by a spirit, Incarna or Dancer 
who has brutally victimized the Dancer who learns it. If the Dancer survives, 
he does not remember his experience, but instead inherits this rite. He never 
knows the source of his continued pain, but feels instead an overwhelming 
need to take out his agony on others. This rite is most commonly used for 
abduction and breeding purposes. 
While brutalizing his victim, the Dancer spends a Gnosis Trait to erase 
his victim’s memory of the event. He then constructs an alternative memory 
in the victim’s mind. The torture must continue for at least 10 minutes. The 
survivor does not remember his victimization, but he continues to have 
flashbacks or nightmares of the experience. The unfortunate victim can 
spend a Willpower Trait to dredge up a horrific glimpse of the event, although 
doing so usually causes more emotional harm than the flashbacks and 
nightmares. Some Dancers refer to this rite as Our Little Secret. See the 
description of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder on p. 85 for more information on 
the effects of this rite. 
91 


Rite of the False Memory: This rite has most of the same effects 
as the Rite ofthe Suroriorur, but the memories are false. A Dancer uses this rite to 
instill memories of horrific experiences in the mind of someone whom she hasn’t 
actually victimized. The rite must be cast while the victim sleeps, but it needs not 
be cast in his presence. The Dancer expends one Gnosis Trait and one Willpower 
Trait and spends an hour constructing the false experience in her mind. 
During this time, she anoints an item that belongs to the victim with 
three drops of her own blood. Once the item has been returned to the victim’s 
possession or home, he will suffer flashbacks and nightmares of the fictional 
experience. If he spends a Willpower Trait to get a better picture of what 
happened, he’ll develop a temporary and strong feeling of disconnection and 
unreality (see Depersonalizption Disorder, p. 81), and the details of the event 
will slip just beyond his grasp. If the anointed possession is destroyed, the false 
memories slip away, never to return. 
See the description of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (p. 85) for more 
information on the effects of this rite. The fictional event must be one capable 
of evoking PTSD-like symptoms (for example, torture, rape or war). The 
Dancer cannot control which pieces of the experience the target sees. 
Rite of the Haunting Moment: At its height, this rite causes a target to see 
briefly what the ritemaster wants her to see. The effects can be subtle (shadows out 
of the comer of her eye; the silhouette of a friend looks like that of an enemy; a 
packmate’s face grows dark and cold), or they can be straightforward (the face of the 
ritemaster superimposed over that of a friend, speaking the ritemaster’s words). The 
effects last for 15 seconds maximum, and the ritemaster must spend a Gnosis Trait 
during the ceremony. Such dark visions are often mistaken for true prophetic visions. 
Aboanceb Rites 
Rite of the False Hunt: This rite tums an evening into one long waking 
nightmare. The target( s) of this rite spend the time from dusk tomidnight having 
hallucinations, usually of their enemies. A pack of Garou might find themselves 
fighting phantom Dancers, some of whom turn out to be their own packmates 
when the dust clears. The ritemaster and his pack spend the entire evening 
performing this rite, and if they’re interrupted, the effects end immediately. The 
ritemaster must spend one Gnosis Trait plus one Willpower Trait per target. The 
ritemaster has no control over the hallucinations; they take their form from the 
fears of the targets. Any target can spend a Willpower Trait to see through the 
hallucinations for one scene, although he will still see flickers of movement and 
shadow from the comers of his eyes and feel as though he is being watched. 
Mystic Rites 
These rites involve spirits, Umbral entities and the spirit of the ritemaster 
or other Dancers. They must be performed by a lone Dancer unless they are 
specifically designed otherwise. 
98 


-W 
Gilasic Rites 
Rite of the Sacred Tattoo: A Black Spiral Dancer Theurge uses 
this rite to permanently mark a sacred tattoo on another Dancer, forming a 
spiritual link between the initiate and the dark spirit represented. The first tattoo 
a Dancer receives is usually his personal totem, and the second is his pack‘s Bane 
totem, although tattoos might also represent personal accomplishments. The 
Dancer chooses whether the tattoo will be visible or hidden. (Hidden tattoos are 
only visible when the Rite ofwoad is performed.) The ritemaster and the Dancer 
being marked each spend one Gnosis Trait. The ritemaster performs a Physical 
Challenge (at the Storyteller’s discretion, the Abilities of Body Crafts or Occult 
may add to the ritual’s success.) If he ties or wins, he performs the rite successfully. 
The rite requires standard tattooing equipment. 
Jntermebiate Rites 
Rite of the Bane Totem: This rite binds a Bane totem to a pack of Black 
Spiral Dancers. The ritemaster begins the rite, and the pack steps into the Umbra 
at the first light of day. There the pack finds some trace or trail of the totem it 
has chosen. For normal Garou totems, the tracking is a formality. Bane totems 
take Dancers through dangerous territory, forcing them to prove themselves 
right away. The test that the pack undergoes will in some way require the pack 
to show that its goals or attitudes match up with the totem’s. Dancers who fail 
to research their future totem might never get the chance to speak with it. If they 
fail the test, the trail disappears, ending the rite. Powerful totems sometimes 
require a trial, task or quest in addition to this test. 
Rite of the Corrupted Fetish: The mechanics for this rite are the same as 
the Garou Rite ofthe Fetish. Dancers prefer to use Wyrm-spirits in their fetishes. 
When they useotherspirits, they prefer tocompel, torture and torment the spirit, 
forcing it into a fetish rather than gaining its cooperation. Doing so typically robs 
the spirit of the will to possess an item, leaving it cursed instead. Cursed fetishes 
are deemed particularly valuable by Dancers. In a variant of this rite, the 
ritemaster may channel one Gnosis Trait and a full 24 hours of ritual into the 
torture and corruption of an existing Gaian fetish, causing it to become cursed. 
Rite of the Opened Eyes: This rite enables the ritemaster to see through 
the effects of the Rite of the Shrouded Glen. He must still pick where to look, 
but he must win a Mental Challenge against one-third of the Gnosis spent in 
the veil‘s creation (rounded down), rather than all of it. This rite requires the 
expenditure of one Willpower Trait. 
Rite of Woad: The Picts used a particular blue pigment called woad to 
create tattoos and battle-paint; the color was supposed to draw upon the mystic’s 
energies. A Theurge who casts this rite reveals all sacred tattoos worn by any 
Dancers present, be they visible or hidden, covered by clothing or not. They glow 
with an unnatural blue light. The subject must assent to this rite; it may not be 
used to reveal Dancers who do not wish to be revealed. The shadows of the 
Dancers also glow with the light of their markings when this rite is cast. When 
all hope of subtlety has been lost, Theurges invoke this rite to reveal their 
99 


warriors. Doing so indicates that the Dancers will not retreat, fighting until one 
side or the other has beendestroyed. The ritemaster spends one Gnosis Trait and 
names all of the Bane totems that he and his side truck with. 
Caern Rites 
These rites align with the heart of Dancer power: corrupted caems, once 
pure and now nursed on the Wyrm’s sickness. These rites can be performed 
only within the bounds of a caem - 
a corrupted caern, unless otherwise 
specified. For every level of the caem, the ritemaster receives a free Trait to 
use in the rite’s contest, in addition to any other bonuses that he might have. 
Wasic Rites 
Moot Rite: The mechanics are the same as for the Garou Moot Rite. 
However, the expenditure of Gnosis must be accompanied by a sacrifice of 
fresh blood -one 
health level per Gnosis Trait -which 
must be allowed to 
sink into the earth of the caem, stain the stone or mark the place in some other 
way. If the caern in question lies within a Dancer Pit, then the sacrifice must 
come from the Dancers present; no one else is allowed within a Dancer Pit. 
If the caem in question does not lie within the Pit, then the Dancers may 
sacrifice the blood of either shapeshifter or human, the more corrupt the 
better. Some packs have tried sacrificing innocent blood to their caem during 
a Moot Rite, but doing so always causes the caem to drop one power level. 
lntermebiate Rites 
Rite of Synchronization: The mechanics are the same as the Garou Rite 
ofthe Badger’s Burrow. However, in order to enact this rite, the ritemaster must 
first spill his own blood at his caem’s moot for two months in a row. If he ever 
fails to enact this monthly sacrifice, he loses his connection to the land around 
the caem and must start this rite over again. 
Abvanceb Rites 
Rite of Caern Corruption: Once the Dancers take a caem from the 
Garou, their work is not done. This rite must be performed once a week (no 
more, no less). It takes a full 24 hours to perform, and it requires at least five 
Dancers from the same pack to perform it. The rite must be performed twice 
for each level of the caem. During this time, the Dancers may not perform 
other caem rites there, with the exception of the Moot Rite, which is 
performed as a part of the day-long Rite of Cam Corruption. This rite is 
typically enacted as a perversion of the Garou Rite of Cmrn Building. 
Rites of O e a t h  
The Dancers have no quarrel with death. They may even show gratitude, 
glee or reverence toward it. 
100 


Wasic Rites 
Rite of the Goodbye Party: This rite is performed to send off 
Dancers who have died. Some Dancers only perform it for those who died in 
battle against the Garou, but most Dancers have widened the use of this rite 
in the interest of having a good time more often. The rite is meant to push the 
Dancer along on his journey around the wheel and make sure he comes back 
soon. It’s a wild, raucous party, including drinking, mock battles (that 
sometimes turn real), sex and possibly the torture and death of prisoners. 
Some Dancers throw this party to honor particularly difficult-to-kill enemies. 
The hope is that the rite will push the Garou’s spirit toward the “right” side 
the next time around. 
Rite of Unburdening the Soul: This rite is performed by any Dancer too 
sick, wounded or old to serve the tribe, and it is performed alone or only with 
the Dancer’s pack. If a Dancer is sick or old enough that her peers see her as 
a burden and she refuses to perform this rite herself, her packmates can 
perform it for her, forcibly holding her down and killing her. Some young pups 
refer to this rite as the Rite of the Sick Puppy. 
Rites of Renown 
These rites reward those Dancers who serve the Wyrm well and distin- 
guish themselves among their fellows. 
Wasic Rites 
Rite of Passage: This rite is performed when a Black Spiral Dancer cub 
or Garou prisoner is first sent into the Shattered Labyrinth. The ritemaster 
spends a Gnosis Trait to activate the design traced on the floor and open the 
gate. The initiate then enters (or is tossed into) the Labyrinth. The tests he 
faces there are roleplaying-oriented rather than mechanical in nature, with 
one exception. The initiate must tie or win a Static Mental Challenge 
(against seven Traits, retest with Occult) in order to make it through the First 
Circle without going insane. 
Rite of Transmogrification: This rite is performed whenever a Black Spiral 
Dancer is ready to go up in Rank. Functionally it is identical to the Rite ofpassage. 
lntermebiate Rites 
Rite of the Sixth Circle: This rite is performed for any Dancer who attains 
the Sixth Circle of the Shattered Labyrinth. It is solemn and reverential, and it 
involves many gifts, valuable or symbolic, from the Dancers of a Hive to the 
Dancer being honored. This rite rarely has occasion to be performed. When it 
does, Dancers come from several Hives away to participate. 
Seasonal q i t e s  
The seasons have many traditional associations, both practical and mystical. 
101 


Wasic Rites 
Autumn Harvest of Souls: The Dancers may perform this rite 
only during the autumn. The rite enables them to see and speak with ghosts 
for the next three days. Whether they can convince those ghosts to aid them 
in any way is another matter entirely. This rite also gives its participants a brief 
chill down their backs when they’re dealing with a Spectre as opposed to a 
normal wraith. The ritemaster spends a Gnosis Trait to activate this rite. 
Springtime Procreation Rite: The Dancers use this rite to 
encourage high pregnancy rates and large litters among their Hives. It primarily 
consists of sex, but it’s a surprisingly solemn rite. The ritemaster spends one Rage 
Trait to invoke it. 
lntermebiate Rites 
Summer Rite of No Holiday: With summertime comes the 
emotional need for rest, and the Dancers are happy to take advantage of this need. 
A Hive performs this rite on the first day of summer. Its purpose is to give the Hive 
a good sense of timing, so that their raids on local Garou will always come when 
the Garou are most in need of a rest. The ritemaster spends one Gnosis Trait 
during this ceremony. For the rest of the summer, he feels restless and angry any 
time the Garou within a five-mile radius collectively start to relax. 
Aboanceb Rites 
Winter Rite of the Wandering Soul: Any given Hive of Dancers 
may perform this rite only once each year, on the winter solstice, within six hours 
of having killed a Garou. The purpose of the rite is to keep the soul of that Garou 
from moving onward properly to be reborn, to cause it to haunt its former friends. 
Treat such Garou as wraiths. The Dancers must have the body of the Garou in their 
possession in order to perform this rite on it, and the ritemaster spends two Gnosis 
Traits. The ceremony itself takes from sundown to sunup. 
Such spirits may be set to rest, but only by the completion of a great quest 
performed in the dead Garou’s name. Garou who take on this quest give up any 
individual renown they might acquire during the quest, giving it instead to their 
dead comrade. They receive a single Honor Renown award for freeing the lost 
spirit. 
Minor Rites 
Minor rites take about 15 minutes to perform. Modifiers they grant are 
not cumulative, but an individual Dancer can receive the modifiers from a 
number of minor rites equal to her rank. If the Dancer misses performing the 
prescribed action in any given session, she must start the whole process over 
again before regaining the benefits. 
Curse the Soul: The Dancer steps into the Umbra after killing an enemy 
and curses the spirit of her prey in the name of the Wyrm. If she does so for 
four consecutive sessions, she receives one free retest thereafter when using 
102 


rites or Gifts that harm her enemies directly. This free retest returns after each 
enemy so treated, maximum once per session. 
Greet the Wyrm: This Dancer howls an elaborate greeting to the 
Wyrm when night falls. If he performs this rite over three consecutive 
sessions, he gains a free retest that can be spent on any Social Challenge. This 
retest returns each session. 
Hunting Prayer: The Dancer chooses an item associated with death 
and destruction (preferably a weapon) and prays over it in praise of the Wyrm for 
three consecutive sessions. Thereafter, the Dancer receives one free retest per 
session when tracking and hunting her enemies. If the Dancer loses the item or fails 
to take it with her when hunting, she must start the process over with a different 
item. 
Respect the Totem: The Dancer meditates for at least 15 
minutes, praying silently to his personal or pack totem during four consecu- 
tive sessions. Doing so gives the Dancer one free retest to be spent when 
performing any task that her totem mandates. This free retest returns each 
session. 
 ow to Use alack Spiral Oancers 
As a whole, the Black Spiral Dancers may truly be called “evil.” They are 
murderers, serial killers, rapists and torturers. They’re all the worst of the front 
page of the newspapers and more. They are the monsters in the night. They can 
represent the seductive, veiled face of the Wyrm, gently leading the Garou down 
the dark path, or they can represent sheer madness, destruction and damnation. 
There is nothing pretty about the Dancers, although some of them wear 
pretty faces. There is nothing enticing about the Dancers, although some of 
them put forth convincing arguments. They’re crazy, sick bastards - 
the 
worst that Garou and humanity have to offer - 
all wrapped up in one 
demented package. They take ideas and concepts that might sound like fun 
on the surface (wild sexual antics, giving into one’s desires and urges) and take 
them way too far. They turn everything into a mess of rage and pain. 
This is why Dancers are not generally recommended as players’ charac- 
ters. There’s nothing cool about rape and murder, and there’s rarely any gain 
to be had by roleplaying down that path. The Black Spiral Dancers do, 
however, make splendid villains and antagonists. 
Use Them Well 
Dancers are more than combat machines, even though that’s often the 
most obvious use for them. After all, you’ve finally found something to throw 
at the Garou in combat that’s scaled to give them an “even” fight, and it’s hard 
to pass that up, isn’t it? Dancers are remarkably versatile, however, and the 
following are just a few of the ways in which you might use them. 
103 


Dancers can strike fear into the hearts of even heroic Garou. Not just 
because the Garou might die at their hands, but because the Garou might 
become them. Dancers are violence, mayhem, madness and chaos. They are 
the seduction and the easy way out. 
Dancers understand how to wage a campaign of terror. They know how 
to prey on the fears of Garou and Kinfolk alike. Begin with the rites - 
there 
are several that should give you ideas. Dancers make use of spirits, hallucina- 
tions, shadows, nightmares and past lives. They orchestrate situations todrive 
as much fear as possible into the Garou whom they stalk. They are well aware 
of how breakable Kinfolk are, and many enjoy the double feast of the Kinfolk‘s 
terror and the Garou’s worry for their kin’s safety. 
The Garou fare best against foes that they can fight. The Dancers fare best 
when they operate from the shadows, where they cannot be seen. They pull the 
strings and arrange for events to happen in certain ways, all without providing 
the target that the Garou needs to focus his rage and anger. The Garou is left with 
only three places to focus those emotions: himself, his allies and the uninvolved 
bystander. Acting out against any of those targets aids the Dancers’ cause. 
Ifyou want to make the point that every Garou bears the seeds of destruction 
within his heart, then play with one or more Storyteller characters who were 
once Garou themselves, and fell (or were forced) into the Shattered Labyrinth. 
Don’t give them the obvious deformities that many Dancers bear. Make their 
derangements mild. Bring such characters in under circumstances in which good 
chances to use Gifts like Sense Wyrm don’t come up, or have them introduce 
themselves to Garou who don’t have such Gifts. Allow your players’ characters 
to think of these Dancers as normal Garou (albeit Garou with some bad habits 
or personality flaws), ones not unlike themselves. Subtly play up their similari- 
ties. Then let them discover the truth. 
You might start by having the characters see only the obviously nasty 
Dancers and allowing them to draw the conclusion that all Dancers are 
deformed nuts. This misconception allows a more attractive, subtle Dancer to 
approach the Garou without them immediately figuring out what he is. The 
Dancers count on this approach. Play with the differences between form and 
substance, surface truth and inner verity. Work with beauty and ugliness, light 
and darkness, hope and despair, friendship and malice. 
Der su t ili t y 
Dancers have been forced to develop a versatility that goes beyond the 
normal Garou adaptability. Some Dancers quietly seek secrets in much the 
same way that the Bastet do. Some Dancers act as information brokers, not 
unlike the Corax. There must be Dancers whose job it is to keep records and 
knowledge for the greater good of the tribe, even if they don’t have the long 
memories of the Mokok. Some Dancers see themselves as tricksters and 
104 


teachers, much like the Nuwisha, even though the lessons they teach will be 
very different from those of the werecoyotes. 
Many people associate evil things with nighttime and darkness, but the 
Dancers can go about at any time of day. Dancers are capable of holding jobs 
and having families, even if their work records are likely to be spotty, even if 
their families are probably dysfunctional. Keep in mind that there are 
exceptions to everything. Why not play with a Dancer who dresses impecca- 
bly, works hard and has a loving husband and obedient children? 
Most of all, remember that Black Spiral Dancers are individuals. Some 
are thoughtful, intelligent, well-educated people. Some are crafty, cunning, 
sneaky bastards. Still others are complete morons who aren’t much good for 
anything other than beating someone’s head in with the butt of a rifle. 
Think (iarou 
When creating antagonists, most people start from one of two places. One, 
they think of how the antagonist might interfere with the specific plans and 
actions of the players’ characters. Two, they devise ways in which the antagonists 
can oppose the grander goals and moralities of the players’ characters. 
Instead, think of the Dancers much like you would any normal Garou. 
What do Garou do? They shepherd cubs through First Changes and Rites of 
Passage. They look for ways to earn renown. They study rites and seek out 
Gifts. They perform quests for spirits. They go on spiritual journeys and vision 
quests. They seek out new areas to inhabit and new caerns to keep. They 
protect their own dwellings. They search for interesting knowledge. They 
work on perfecting new rites and Gifts. They create fetishes and talens. They 
have prophetic dreams and visions, and they work to fulfill or avert them. 
Dancers do all of these same things. 
Think of ways that your Garou characters might get mixed up in any of 
these activities. How might a Dancer quest, mandated by a Wyrm-spirit, end 
up in the Garou’s backyard? What would happen if your Garou stumbled 
across a Dancer ritual? What would happen if the Garou found a Dancer cub 
who didn’t grow up inside the Hive and just went through his First Change? 
What if your characters just happen to plan their outing for apart of the woods 
that overlaps with Dancer territory? 
Maybe a spirit wants a Dancer to steal an item from a Garou in order to 
prove himself or to somehow trick a Garou into parting with a particular piece 
of information. Perhaps your characters stumble across a pack of Dancers 
performing the Rite of the Goodbye Party for a fallen Garou hero they hope to 
snag when he’s reborn. How would they figure out what’s going on, and what 
would they do about it? 
In other words, first figure out what odd, perhaps even seemingly 
innocent activity the Dancers may be up to, then figure out how your 
characters will get involved. What will they see and hear? How will the 
situation look to them? How does that differ from what’s really going on? 
What about the situation will interest them and drag them in? 
10s 


The &pic Story Arc 
As the Black Spiral Dancers are, in many ways, the “opposite numbers” of the 
Garou, they make the perfect opposition for epic story arcs. Epic stories are long- 
term stories, involving heroism and tragedy. The plot is large, and it could have 
a great effect on the world. Many smaller plots happen as parts of the larger one. 
Epic story-arcs are best used in moderation, or players come to expect that 
each plot will be bigger and more impressive than the last. Every now and then, 
however, they add excitement and passion to a game. Epic stories often involve 
prophecy. This is a good place to keep in mind the lesson of the last section: 
Remember that the Dancers have prophecies, heroes and tragedies as well. 
Long-‘Zerm Annoyances 
Black Spiral Dancers know very well the value of secrecy and security. It 
should be very difficult for the Garou to track them down to their Pit and root 
them out for good. It should also be difficult for the Dancers to eliminate the 
Garou. They must be very careful about moving in and out of their Pit. They 
must uphold the Veil. The preservation of their own species is more important 
than wiping out the Garou. Last but not least, the more Garou they kill, the 
fewer Garou they can tempt into the Shattered Labyrinth. 
Thus, they’re likely to be a long-term thorn in the Garou’s sides with 
occasional tragedies, rather than a quick thing that’s dealt with easily. Many 
Dancers study the Garou carefully before messing with them. They’ll wait for 
weaknesses before attacking. They’ll single out Garou who seem ripe for 
corruption and turn them slowly. They’re not looking for the one decisive 
victory; they want to wear the Garou down. 
Atrocities anb Victimization 
The Black Spiral Dancers commit horrible acts. They hurt people. They 
kill people. When they let people live, they often leave them with muddled 
memories, flashbacks and nightmares. It can be difficult to know how to deal 
with these subjects when storytelling. Most Storytellers don’t want to roleplay 
atrocities and victimization, and with good reason! These subjects make 
people uncomfortable. They cause real problems for people sensitive to 
particular subjects. They cause players to leave games, and in some cases, they 
ruin friendships. 
There are several ways to handle this. First, you should always try to check 
with your players before exploring any particularly sensitive or horrifying 
subject, and make sure they’re up to such things. It might be a good idea to 
have them fill out a brief questionnaire when they join a game that asks what 
subjects they don’t feel comfortable dealing with. 
Approach things in a sidelong manner. Have the truly terrible things 
happen to Storyteller characters, so that the players’ characters see only the 
victim’s horror, injuries and terror, rather than seeing the actual event. This 
106 


tactic can play off the characters’ protectiveness or caring for their friends and 
relatives to get them really riled up. 
Dancers have Gifts and rites that blur their victims’ memories of events. 
If a player is willing to go along with this, then have a terrible event happen 
to someone “off-screen.” The first the characters know of it are the flashbacks 
and nightmares that come later. You have the perfect opportunity toplay with 
small details and implication, without ever describing the actual event. 
If you absolutely must have something happen to a player’s character in- 
game, then “fade to black.” This trick is used in the movie sex scene that ends 
at the door to the bedroom, or the scene in which the camera rushes up to the 
victim in a monster movie just before the scene switches. We don’t see the 
details, but we know exactly what happened. If, for some reason, you feel it 
necessary to go through the scene (not generally recommended), then skip 
the nasty details. Sometimes, people’s imaginations can conjure up far worse 
than anything you might hand them. 
107 


‘Zhe Fornor Worlb 
A fomor is the product of the fusion of a human being and a Bane spirit 
in service to the Wyrm. For one reason or another, and through a wide variety 
of means, an otherwise normal man or woman is violently forced into the pus- 
filled clutches of servitude to the Wyrm. 
It is a common misconception that Pentex creates and directs all 
fomori. Pentex goes to great lengths to create the most cutting-edge and 
most innovative fomori on the market, but the company did not create the 
process by which Bane spirits bond with human souls. There have been 
fomori of one sort of another since men and women were willing to sell 
themselves for power. The Pure Ones called them mockeries, the 
shapeshifters of the East called them bakemono, but from their legendary 
fights with the faeries and Fianna of Ireland, they received the name by 
which they are known today. 
‘Zypes of Fomori 
Although many types of fomori exist in the World of Darkness, only a few 
are common enough to highlight. The following are the most common fomori 
that a character is most likely to encounter. 
Pentex Fomori 
The fomori of Pentex are, in sum, constructs of terror and destruction. In- 
house scientists work late into the night to create these creatures for a variety 
of purposes. Human hosts range from willing recruits (although it must be 
wondered what they were offered that made them so “willing”) to wayward 
109 
7 / + -  7
7


employees to unlucky vagrants plucked off the streets by scout teams. Many 
are injected with Fomorol, while others have even more violent transforma- 
tions. The result is a fomor created to company specifications. Although no 
two fomori are exact duplicates, Pentex’s breeds have more in common with 
one another than other fomor, and all of Pentex’s fomori legions are immune 
to the Delirium solely because of their Delerex Lupus-7 drug. 
Fomori serve a variety of functions in Pentex, often dependent on their 
type or breed. The most skilled usually serve in First Teams, in the ranks of 
advertising or other plum positions. Fomori who are unable to hide their 
deformities or who have less valuable powers end up 2s cannon fodder. 
Mon-Pentex 9omari 
As was mentioned earlier, fomori flourished on their own long before 
Pentex. This section details a few examples of the types of fomori that can be 
Pentex influence 
ted to them in a 
or even over-the- 
wanting to help the victim, getting him medical attention or performing some 
other kindness. These poor souls are usually grateful not to be shot on sight 
or locked up as the monsters they’re becoming, and gratitude can form the 
basis of many a fomor’s relationship with Pentex. Those who aren’t as (‘lucky” 
may take to wandering in the shadowy alleys or out in the countryside, unable 
to understand what’s happening to them as the Bane slowly devours their 
consciousness. These unfortunates often end up the targets of Garou packs. 
Another example of the Hapless Victim is the poor schmoe who isn’t sure 
why it’s happening, but he suddenly wakes up one morning vomiting worms 
or engaging in some other unpleasant habit. The opening comic of Freak 
Legion is a prime example of this type of transformation. Banes look for 
110 


comfortable places to bed down, and while our “hero” doesn’t seem like the 
sort to attract a Bane, his soul has been worn down and made callused from 
the grind of an apparently inescapable life. This spiritual exhaustion can leave 
a victim without the wherewithal to fight off whatever is happening to him. 
Other Hapless Victims are victims only by the surprise that the Banes sprang 
on them. It might be that their raging tempers, or love-’em-and-leave-’em 
ways (or some other character flaw) that is magnified in them attracted the 
notice of a Bane. As of late, fomor are a reflection of the seven deadly sins; the 
results of a base drive in mortals that Bane-spirits find irresistible. Fomor come 
in all shapes and sizes, and a Bane-spirit will warp a human’s body to fit her 
greatest desire. A person who is constantly teased as “noodle boy” and is 
consumed with the vanity of physical beauty might attract a Bane spirit that 
will “bless” him with rippling muscles. A person who stuffs herself with food 
might attract a Bane that shifts her ravenous appetite for food to a desire for 
the “other other white meat.” 
Che Fullen Kinfolk 
It takes a lot for a Kinfolk to renounce her heritage and accept the Wyrrn’s 
embrace. Unfortunately, there is rarely a lack of reasons for many kin. 
The decision is often made in the heat of the moment, and it could be 
caused for a variety of reasons, stemming from a jealousy over the lack of a 
shifting gene or perhaps the result of a deep-driven depression. In some Garou 
tribes or families, being continually pushed aside or ignored in favor of those 
who bred true can engender resentment or a powerful lack of self-esteem in 
those who somehow didn’t make the cut. Kinfolk are expected to fulfill their 
duty to Gaia, but to what reward? Many Garou are all too ready to hand out 
punishment and lectures to Kinfolk who fail, but they have precious little 
praise for those who succeed. Female kin suffer inordinately when their Garou 
mates become “over-enthusiastic” in celebrating victories, or they become 
the closest targets when those same mates fall into Harano or need something 
to vent frustration on. And of course, the old “just not good enough” feeling 
is always present, whether it’s self-inflicted by a resentful kin or it’s reinforced 
by the tribe’s mores and values. 
Regardless of the reason, the Wyrm is exceedingly good at promising the 
kin whatever she needs to hear, and it rarely passes up the opportunity to use 
one of the Garou’s own weapons against them. The Garou, however, have yet 
to learn the lesson. 
The dreebs 
Fomori are, by and large, unique as the individuals that they once were. 
They all come about through the intervention of a Bane, though some 
strains occur naturally (a certain group of Banes that tend to possess the 
same sort of people to a particular end), and some are engineered deliber- 
ately (whether through Project Iliad or others). The following breeds are 
the ones seen most commonly. 
111 


& n t ice r s 
Enticers make up one of the most subtle fomori breeds and one of the most 
insidious. They continuously exude pheromones that stimulate their prey’s 
pleasure centers, and they can simultaneously extract images of the prey’s ideal 
mate from his mind. The result is pure seduction that is impossible to resist. 
While some occur naturally, most Enticers are created through the work 
of Siren Cosmetics, yet another Pentex subsidiary. The company sponsors a 
yearly contest, in which the prize is a collection of “special hypoallergenic” 
makeup and skin-care products. The Banes in the products do their work 
carefully over the course of at least a month, both to ensure that the takeover 
is successful and to ensure that their unlucky hosts are thoroughly addicted to 
the products. Most Enticers become so addicted to the special cosmetics that 
they sign on with Pentex to obtain a steady supply, and Pentex has plenty for 
them to do. (King Breweries has a number of Enticers seeded through their 
“King’s Wenches.”) Enticers may be found advertising other Pentex subsid- 
iary products, or they may be sent out to entrap Pentex enemies. 
Enticers look like normal humans, except for the rows of barbed teeth in 
their mouths, but their Wyrm powers allow them to be intensely alluring. 
They rarely look anything but their best, and they usually have expensive 
clothing and cars or other luxuries (acquired from previous victims). Most 
prefer to avoid fighting. They are masters of seduction and corruption, and 
they would rather draw their prey in to fight for them. 
Attributes: Beguilingx 3, Chrmingx 2, Clever x 2, Dexterous, Expressive 
x 2, Graceful x 2, Gorgeous x 3, Insightful x 2, Knowledgeable, Observant, 
Patient, Seductive x 3 
Abilities: Academics, Athletics, Brawl, Dodge, Drive, Empathy, Etiquette, 
Expression, Firearms, Performance x 3 (Seduction), Subterfuge x 2 
Backgrounds: Allies x 2, Contacts x 2, Resources x 3 (Enticers can pick up 
almost any other Background from their alliance with Pentex orpreviousvictims.) 
Willpower: 6 
Powers: Enhancement, Fangs, Succubi’s Veil 
Enhancement - 
With a successful Social Challenge against her 
target, the Enticer can scan her target’s mind and learn enough to physically 
appear as her target’s ideal mate, even appearing to change genders if needs 
be. On a loss, however, the Enticer can make the change, but her target senses 
that she desperately wants to be liked and needed. 
Succubi’s Veil- With a Static Social Challenge (difficulty of eight Traits, 
retest with Subterfuge), the Enticer can cause her target to become completely 
enthralled, wanting nothing more than to serve and protect her. At a cost of two 
Willpower Traits, she can make the enchantment more binding, so that the target 
becomes fanatically dedicated to the Enticer, ready to die at her command. 
However, ifthe Enticerfails her test, the target canmake a Static Mentalchallenge 
(difficulty of seven Traits, retest with Primal-Urge). If he succeeds, the target gets 
a “gut feeling” that the Enticer is somehow dangerous, and the enthrallment fails. 
112 


Fer e cf oi 
These so-called “princes” of the fomori are cross-breeds between human 
genes and a Bane parent. They are cunning, vicious and extremely powerful, 
and they can walk unnoticed among human society. Well aware of human 
weaknesses, they exploit them ruthlessly. 
Ferectoi are the spawn of a Breeder Bane, a spirit that exists for no other 
purpose than to breed. Breeders rape humans while they slumber, using potent 
Charms to make them forget the encounter or believe that it was adream. The 
Breeders then retreat to let the Ferectoi gestate in the Umbra, then reappear 
in the real world to birth them. Ferectoi look and act like rich, powerful 
humans, but they are ultimately less human than any other fomori. Whatever 
human interests and shortcomings they have seem to have a strangely alien 
cast to them. Time is not kind to these creatures - 
they grow steadily kss 
human as they age. 
The Ferectoi’s humanity is often in conflict with their overwhelming 
Wyrm-tainted nature, and most times, it is a short struggle. However, rumor 
has it that the human nature of some rare Ferectoi does manage to gain the 
upper hand. No one ever seems to have met such a fomor, though. Apparently 
they atone for the sin of their birth in a blaze of glory before their Bane sides 
can regain control. 
Despite their monstrous natures, these creatures appear human in every 
way. Even their Bane powers do not physically betray them. (Extra limbs are 
retractable, slimy skin activates on contact, and so on.) Born to evil, Ferectoi 
aspire to nothing but further evil, and they are quite capable of doing whatever 
is necessary to ensure their own survival and power. A vampire would easily 
meet his match against one of these princes of darkness. 
Attributes: Brutal x 2, Commanding x 3, Dedicated x 2, Determined, 
Dignified, Disciplined x 2, Ferocious x 2, lntimldating x 3, Knowledgeable x 3, 
Magnetic x 2, Quick x 3, Shrewd, Tenacious x 2, Tough x 3, Wily 
Abilities: Academics, Brawl, Dodge, Enigmas x 2, Intimidation x 3, Leader- 
ship x 2, Occult x 3, Streetwise x 2, Subterfuge x 2 
Backgrounds: Allies x 5, Contacts x 4, Resources x 4 (Ferectoi have 
whatever they require to run their business - 
mundane and otherwise). 
Powers: All Ferectoi are unique, but they have at least five fomori powers. 
Willpower: 9 
Gorehounbs 
Enticers seduce, Ferectoi scheme, Toads organize, but Gorehounds exist 
for one purpose - 
to kill. Gorehounds come to exist when a vulnerable 
teenager watches a movie from Slaughterhouse Video, a vile filmmaking 
outfit on the Pentex payroll. These movies are found in seedy, back-room 
video stores, where they’re readily accessible to young people. Each film has 
a sort of “Bane magnet” that attracts the Bane that creates this particular 
113 


fomori. Particularly disturbed viewers risk possession, and the Banes turn their 
hosts’ wild fantasies of bloodletting into a full-scale lust for killing. 
Ideal specimens to become Gorehounds could easily fit the profile for 
many disturbed teenagers in school today - 
kids who are isolated, often 
picked on by other kids, who entertain violent fantasies of turning on their 
tormentors. They may come from abusive or broken homes. Banes tap into 
that bottled-up rage and encourage thoughts of revenge against those who 
hurt them. These Banes are not picky about whom they possess either. It is 
entirely possible that they could possess a lost cub who has not yet undergone 
her First Change. 
Once fully possessed, Gorehounds start to act out their sadistic fantasies, 
usually starting on small targets (such as animals) and moving up to human 
targets. The host becomes consumed with the idea of becoming a powerful killer, 
a figure of fear like his “heroes” in the slasher films. Many start adding personal 
touches to their work, such as wearing masks, using particular weapons, leaving 
calling cards at the scene or even inflicting scars on themselves (because it looks 
“cool”). They display a fiendish cunning beyond their youth, and they can 
conceal their homicidal rages at first. As the killings mount, the Banes usually 
goad their hosts into full-bore sprees, riding them into death. Banes rarely give 
their hosts any extra benefits, beyond more muscle mass. 
Attributes: Alert x 2, Brutal x 3, Cunning x 4, Enduring, Ferocious x 2, 
Intimidating x 2, Intuitive, Rugged x 3, Tough x 3 
Abilities: Brawl x 3, Intimidation x 2, Melee x 4, Stealth x 4 
Powers: Berserker, Immune to Delirium, Regeneration 
Willpower: 7 
Coabs 
Toads are considered the Wyrmish equivalent of middle management. 
They squat at the centers of their own little webs of intrigue, lording it over 
any weaker fomori in their circles and kissing butt to those more powerful. 
They are masters at avoiding and deflecting attention until they spy the right 
opportunity to either attack or put someone else on the problem. 
No one quite knows where Toads came from. They simply started 
appearing in Pentex middle management during the mid-’80s, and they 
excelled there. They did so well, in fact, that headhunters wheedled them 
away to other firms and Toads are now found in many companies across the 
nation. Many seem to enjoy their positions, at which they can destroy careers 
or employee self-esteem on a whim. 
Toads look more or less human on casual inspection. All of them are 
short, overweight males who dress in a “uniform” of scuffed shoes, stained 
trenchcoats and badly fitted suits. Toads are also bald, with thick fingers and 
bulging eyes, and they are peppered with warts everywhere the eye can see. 
Should a Toad open his mouth, however, others will see what makes him a 
Toad - 
a 15 foot lashing tongue that ends in a sharp barb capable of cutting 
114 


through flesh or sheetrock. Most Toads tend to talk as though their mouths 
are full (which they are). 
Attributes: Commanding x 2, Cunning x 2, lntimiduting, Knowledgeable, 
Nimble x 3, Patient x 2, Persuasive x 2, Robust, Tenacious x 2, Tough x 3, Wily x 3 
Abilities: Brawl, Intimidation, Investigation, Stealth x 2, Streetwise x 2, 
Subterfuge x 2 
Backgrounds: Contacts x 5 (Toads know everybody) 
Powers: Barbed Tongue (As Lashing Tail, but inflicting aggravated dam- 
age - 
the tongue does one level going in and one level pulling out. Rumor 
has it some very old Toads can add a payload of neurotoxin.) 
Storytellers C;uibe to Using Fomori 
Fomori are unlike any other creature in the World of Darkness. On 
one hand, they can represent the icky critters that end up as so much slime 
under the claws of raging Garou warriors after a Pentex raid. On the other 
hand, with enough time and effort and a little imagination, a fomor can 
become a very deadly adversary. That said, fomori are most likely the most 
versatile foes in a Storyteller’s arsenal. They work as weak first lines of 
defense against a pack of werewolves, as spies to infiltrate a Kinfolk home 
or as the bloody fist of a top executive in Pentex. They also work as 
unwilling antagonists, such as the teenager who suffers Powers and Taints 
and who wreaks absolute havoc in his high school, the victim of too many 
hours of mindless video game play. 
If you, as Storyteller, require a quick fight encounter for your players, one 
with little preparation and almost zero perspiration, it’s always a good idea to 
have a few ready-made low-level fomori on hand, at least one pack’s worth. 
You can make a fomori character template, and tweak the Powers and Taints 
as you see fit. The most common Powers (and the easiest ones to work with) 
are Claws, Fangs and Horns, Lashing Tail and Stomach Pumper. For these types 
of battles, it is not as important to flesh out all of the detail that ahllcharacter 
requires. Focus on Physical Traits, and leave the other two Attribute catego- 
ries blank; you can make them up if necessary. Two Brawl Abilities are 
probably fitting for each Narrator fomor, as belaboring combat can be as 
detrimental to the morale of the players as a lack of preparation. Don’t 
concentrate on any single character; try to spread the wealth per se. A 
successful fomori first line will weaken each character just a bit. Try not to 
throw too much defensive strength at the characters in this early stage, for fear 
of scaring away the players altogether. After all, there is no Wisdom in 
attacking a superior enemy. For the best results all around, only weaken the 
characters enough to where they know that their attack is “just getting 
started” and that the worst is yet to come. 
If the players crave a well-rounded enemy and one more worth their 
concentrated efforts, you can appease them with a more powerful fomor. 
You might even want two fomori, of equal yet different calibers. Give these 
the full creation treatment, yet keep in mind that they are still Narrator 
ll5 
, 


characters. The aforementioned breeds should give you some ideas about 
these kinds of characters. 
Storytellers should also remember that this scale may need adjusting. You 
don’t want to send in a big-league fomor to slaughter the new players’ characters, 
nor do you want to send a small-fry against five adren Get of Fenris Ahroun. Both 
situations will end too quickly and with little room for player creativity. 
Storytellers also need to consider what kind of results they want to 
get with their fomori. Do you want to emphasize that the characters have 
been too cavalier with their Kinfolk? Hit ’em up with a sympathetic 
Kinfolk character who takes the bad bargain, or regular fomori who target 
Kinfolk. Want to tell a story about a Pentex-related factory in the 
neighborhood? Start having victims sprouting Taints, or introduce a few 
Hapless Victim fomori. 
Fomori should reek of lost humanity - 
each one is a human being who 
either bartered away his soul for something that was not worth the price or who 
was forced into an unwanted transformation. This is the future of the human 
race if the Wyrm wins. Granted, fomori are better off dead, but if you can evoke 
the lost humanity of these creatures, any Garou with a conscience should feel 
some twinge that these poor bastards came to this. When fomori become 
nothing but orcs (something crunchy for endless rounds of stand-up fights like 
you’d get in shoot-em-up video games), then you lose the meaning behind who 
they are and why they exist. 
Creating F’omori 
Follow the character-creation rules for humans found in the Laws of the 
Hunt before continuing into this section. First begin with a Nature and 
Demeanor, and then allocate the six, four and three Attribute Traits in either 
the Physical, Social or Mental categories. Next you must choose five Abilities, 
also found in Laws of the Hunt. Then assign your character’s Backgrounds, 
Willpower, Negative Traits and Merits and Flaws. Ignore the Humanity 
category, as the character’s humanity will quickly crash and bum with the 
incumbent Bane’s influence over the psyche. 
Now you are ready to address the Wyrmside. You need to decide whether 
this fomor intends to work for Pentex or is an unlucky loner. Then assign 
Powers and Taints. 
Storytellers are ardently warned against allowing a regular player to 
play a fomor character. Fomori are creatures of evil, the embodiment of the 
seven deadly sins that drive mortality, certainly not part of the in-crowd. No 
matter what kind of story a player dredges up to sway your vote, you must 
keep in mind that the Garou in the game will slaughter a fomor character 
on sight. There is no rational reason for a fomor player to work toward the 
benefit of the Garou, nor would any self-respecting werewolf allow himself 
to spit in the face of Gaia and his ancestors by working alongside one of the 
Wyrm’s most foul minions. 
116 


9omori Powers 
The following list describes many fomori Powers, and the Taints that are 
the piper’s payment. These are only suggestions, though. The Wyrm may 
grant certain Powers to fulfill specific needs, and the host may react in 
unexpected ways to Wyrm-taint. 
d e r  ser ker 
The fomor has five Rage Traits, which he may spend and regain in the 
same fashion as a Garou uses Rage. 
6rain-Lating 
A character using this Power steals away the mental facilities of a victim 
and adds them to his own. In order for this Power to take effect, the fomor must 
ingest the brain of his victim. Each Mental Trait “ingested” or stolen adds one 
to the fomor’s own Mental Traits and remains for one game session. Fomor 
may increase their Mental Traits beyond their normal capacity in this 
manner, so bon appe‘tit. 
doay-War bs 
The fomor has razored, bladelike bone growths at his elbows, wrists, 
knees or feet. The size, shape, number and placement of the barbs vary 
from fomor to fomor. These barbs inflict two levels of lethal damage, 
however they are brittle and likely to break off. (Make a Simple Test after 
a successful strike; the barb breaks on a loss or tie). The barbs will break 
or shatter if they are used on very hard surfaces, and they must be 
regenerated in order to grow back. 
Chameleon Coloration 
The fomor has the ability to blend in with his surroundings, making it 
near impossible to distinguish his presence in almost every type of environ- 
ment. With the expenditure of a Mental Trait, the fomor’s skin changes color 
to blend in with his surroundings. Movement is restricted to a slow walk. You 
should cross your arms over your chest to show when you are under this 
Power’s chameleon effect. Creatures extending themselves with supernatural 
perceptions to locate you are two Traits down, and they will notice only your 
blurry outline if they succeed. 
Claws, Fangs ana Horns 
With this natural weaponry, the fomor may bite, gore or slash his opponents 
ifhe is so inclined. These appendages are not generallyremovable without injury, 
yet they could be sheathed, such as retractable claws. Damage inflicted with 
claws or fangs is now aggravated instead of bashing or lethal. Fomor with fangs 
have a huge maw of razor-sharp teeth that, on a successful bite, can inflict a 
second level of aggravated damage by winning a Simple Test. In the case of horns, 
117 


not only does a fomor inflict aggravated damage, he can opt to make a gore attack 
that inflicts two levels of aggravated damage on a target. If successful, the target 
is impaled on the fomor’s horns, and must succeed in a Physical Challenge to 
remove himself. While a target is impaled in this fashion, the fomor may not 
initiate any further attack other than to thrash side-to-side, which inflicts one 
level of lethal damage on the victim. The fomor can defend himself, although 
he is two Traits down on all Physical Challenges. 
Oarksight 
The fomor can see in the dark. This Power spawns from an innate affinity 
with darkness, and it works where not even a sliver of light is present. The 
fomor suffers no vision penalties, even in total darkness. 
~ x o s  
kelet on 
The fomor has grown a hard, osseous carapace all over his body. The 
exoskeleton is often quite gnarled, sporting veinlike tubes and odd muscular 
shapes. The coloration varies, but it is usually a dull rust or oily black. The 
fomor adds the Physical Traits Resilient x 2 and Tough x 2, and these Traits may 
surpass the character’s Trait maximums. 
Extra Limbs 
The fomor has a number of extra limbs, which are usually tentacles or 
masses of tendrils, though they can also be duplicates of his other two arms 
or legs. Such extra limbs often sprout from awkward places, such as an 
extra arm growing from a fomor’s thigh. Most fomori have no more than 
four extra limbs. These limbs allow the fomor to perform basic, uncoordi- 
nated chores, but they will not convey multi-tasking feats. In order to 
perform independent actions with these extra limbs, such as firing a gun 
from each hand at multiple targets, or grappling with or defending against 
multiple targets, the fomor must bid two Traits when using any extra limb 
for independent action. This purchase also grants the fomor an extra 
Physical Trait per extra limb. 
&yes of the W y r m  
The fomor locks eyes with his opponent, giving her a glimpse of the 
horrors of the Wyrm and effectively paralyzing her with fear. The fomor 
spends a turn locking eyes with his opponent, then engages in a Social 
Challenge. Success forces the target to remain rooted to one spot for five 
turns. If the target is attacked, the effect ends. 
Foot douh 
The fomor has soft pads on the bottoms of his feet, allowing for silent 
movement over most surfaces. In the event that a fomor fails to move silently, 
he may call for an automatic Stealth retest. If he loses this challenge, however, 
he fails to move silently. 
v 
118 


Frog Tongue 
The fomor can elongate his tongue as a frog would and stick it to surfaces. 
Hecanflickitout (toadistanceoftwoyards) anduse ittograspthingsortoinflict 
damage. However, the tongue can make the fomor’s speech unintelligible, and 
quite possibly give its owner a taste for insects. The tongue has half the fomor’s 
PhysicalTraits, and the player may retest using the Brawl Ability. The fomor may 
use the tongue for grappling or inflicting one level of lethal damage. Some fomor 
combine this Power with Body-Barbs for a vicious whip attack. 
Gaseous Form 
The fomor can virtually boil his body down into a gaseous state in a mere 
two to six seconds. The gaseous form holds together well even in a strong 
wind, it usually stinks of sulfur, urine, excrement or some other horrible 
stench, and it actually looks more like air pollution than a mist. The fomor 
must expend a Willpower Trait to become gaseous and expend another Trait 
to become solid again. In this form, the fomor may glide through the air at the 
pace of a slow walk. Some Garou Gifts, such as Cutting Wind, will harm the 
fomor in his gaseous form. 
Hanbs from Weyonb 
The fomor must have the Power: Umbral Passage. The fomor can enter the 
Umbra then reach back into the material world to pull others into the spirit world 
withhim. He can even pullmore thanone person through theGauntlet at a time. 
The fomor must first enter the Umbra. He then spends one Gnosis and pulls in 
one or more willing targets (the targets must hold hands). He may bring in one 
person for every permanent Gnosis he possesses. If the target is unwilling, the 
fomor must make a Static Gnosis Challenge against the target’s Willpower, and 
then a test with a Narrator against the Gauntlet in the area. 
Hibe ofthe W y r m  
The fomor has a leathery, almost iron-hard skin that is usually covered 
in knots, scales, lumps, boils or other foul features. The fomor may add three 
extra Healthy health levels, which are the first to absorb any damage. 
Immunity to the a e l i r i u m  
Most fomori are immune to the Delirium. Wyrm-taint usually erases the 
Veil along with their humanity. Not all fomori are immune, and the degree 
of immunity seems to depend on the amount of Wyrm-taint possessed. Pentex 
injects its fomori with a special serum that destroys the part of the brain 
susceptible to the Delirium. The fomor may ignore the effects non-supematu- 
ral creatures suffer when witnessing a Garou in his Crinos form. 
Infectious ‘Couch 
The fomor is able to spread fever and sickness through his touch. 
After winning a Physical Challenge (to touch the target), the fomor then 
119 


spends a variable number of Mental Traits to inflict sickness on his target 
(no more than three levels may be inflicted at one time). The target suffers 
lethal damage equal to the amount of Mental Traits spent. Unless he is 
healed by mystical means (Mother’s Touch is insufficient), the damage 
heals at the rate of one level per week, during which time the target suffers 
from illness. This illness is never more serious than a heavy chest cold or 
infection, but for humans (especially with compromised immune sys- 
tems), this effect can be quite serious. 
Lashing Tail 
This six-foot tail is similar to an extra limb, but it cannot be used for 
precision work. This tail may be used to attack, and it inflicts two health levels 
of lethal damage. As with the Power Frog Tongue, many fomori add Body- 
Barbs to the end of this tail, for a signature scorpion attack. 
Minb &last 
The fomor can send a mental blast of energy into a target’s mind, 
immobilizing him with pain. The fomor spends one Willpower Trait and a 
number of Mental Traits. The target may resist with a successful Willpower 
Challenge. The fomor can affect any one target within his line of sight. For 
each Mental Trait the fomor spends the victim cannot act for one turn as her 
mind is racked with fiery agony. 
Mouth of the Wyrm 
The fomor can distend his jaw to swallow objects or creatures in his 
grasp, up to the size of a medium-sized dog or a small person. If he devours 
a living creature, the victim may well suffocate if it cannot escape somehow, 
and it will be digested as food. All indigestible parts (bones, shoes, glasses, 
etc.) are excreted normally. The fomor engages in a Physical Challenge 
with the target he intends to devour. For a small-sized target, only one 
successful challenge is required. For a human-sized target, three challenges 
must succeed. For a Crinos-sized target, five challenges must succeed, 
accompanied by some Alka-Seltzer. 
numbing 
The fomor’s body can become completely numb, allowing her to 
function without feeling pain. However, she is numb to all sensations - 
she 
cannot talk properly (her tongue feels permanently anesthetized) and she 
may cut herself and feel nothing, which may result in infected or gangrenous 
wounds of which the fomor is unaware. Many fomor with this Power end up 
missing toes, fingers and other small body parts that they have damaged and 
neglected. The fomor spends one Willpower Trait; the effect lasts for one 
scene. The fomor suffers no health level-related penalties and gains an extra 
Healthy level. However, when this Power wears off, the extra health levels 
disappear, if the fomor is below Incapacitated, she dies. 
120 


Plasmic 9orm 
The fomor can literally melt into a puddle of thick reddish-brown liquid 
which can move about of its own free will. The fomor must spend a point of 
Willpower to become liquid and spend another point to become solid again. The 
liquid is immune to kinetic attacks (knives, bullets, fists, etc.) Most mental and 
mystical attacks will affect him, however (except those involving eye contact). 
Poison Tumors 
The fomor is covered in tumors, and whenever the fomor is hit with a 
claw (or other sharp weapon), the attacker is splattered with acidic pus that 
inflicts one level of aggravated damage. If the attacker bites the fomor, he 
suffers three levels of aggravated damage. If the fomor is hit with a melee 
weapon, the attacker must attempt to dodge in order to avoid the flying pus. 
Ranged weapons pose no risk to the user, but any allies fighting near the fomor 
may be splattered. 
Rat Heab 
This Power is named after a rat’s ability to squeeze through holes much 
smaller than its body size. The fomor can wriggle through holes as small as 1/ 
20th of his fomor circumference. A human-sized fomor can thus squeeze 
through holes smaller than a quarter. The effect lasts for one “slide” (until the 
fomor reaches an area wider than its original size). The fomor must wiggle like 
a snake in order to propel itself forward. The fomor may slide at one half his 
normal running speed. 
Regeneration 
The fomor recovers from normal, non-aggravated damage in the same 
fashion as Garou. Aggravated damage, from fire or fetish weapons, cannot be 
regenerated (it is healed at the rate of one health level per day). The metabolic 
alterations necessary for nearly instantaneous recovery from even mortal wounds 
take their toll on the “human” system, however, and fomori who possess this 
Power usually die fromcancer before their late 30s. This Power actsno differently 
from the Garou’s regeneration ability, with all of the benefits and drawbacks. 
Roar of the W y r m  
The fomor is able to strike terror into the hearts of all near her by issuing 
a guttural scream. The fomor spends one Willpower Trait and initiates a 
Social Challenge with anyone within earshot (mob rules may apply). Those 
victims who lose the challenge become so frightened that they run as fast and 
as far as they can to get away from the fomor. Once the affected are out of 
earshot, the effect wears off. 
Scent of the W y l b  or Weaver 
The fomor is able to mask his Wyrm nature by wrapping himself strongly 
in the aura of either the Wyld or the Weaver (the power must be bought twice 
I21 


to do both). This power doesn’t eliminate the Wyrm-taint, it only overpowers 
it. Garou may still sense the Wyrm-taint with the Gift: Sense Wyrm, but it is 
less suggestive of a Wyrm-creature. The fomor makes a Mental Challenge; the 
effect lasts for one scene. 
Sense Gaia 
The fomor can sense manifestations of Gaia in the nearby area. This 
Power requires active concentration, and it works like the Garou Gift: 
Sense Wyrm. 
Slobber Snot 
The fomor’s skin is covered with small warts that excrete an extremely 
slick and runny slime. This slime renders the fomor’s body virtually friction- 
less, making it almost impossible for opponents to grasp him. The slimy gel 
also helps the fomor to squeeze through tight spaces, not to mention being 
unbelievably gross. Slobber Snot dissolves in direct sunlight. Most fomori who 
takes this Power are highly vulnerable to The Crusties (see “Taints”). The 
fomor spends one Willpower Trait, and the effect lasts for one scene. During 
this time, opponent’s difficulties to grapple or grab the fomor suffer a penalty 
of three Traits. In addition, the fomor halves all bashing damage. Opponents 
trying to track a fomor who is covered in Slobber Snot suffer a two-Trait penalty 
due to the offensive smell. 
Stomach daumper 
The fomor can vomit forth all that he’s eaten recently (which is, of 
course, covered in a gout of clinging stomach acids), up to a range of 25 feet. 
Each regurgitative blast can cover a single foe. The fomor initiates a Physical 
Challenge. The blast inflicts two levels of lethal damage, but the victim 
must expend a Trait of Willpower to keep from stopping whatever he is 
doing and start retching. Only three such blasts may be performed between 
complete meals. 
‘Car Waby 
With this Power, the fomor’s skin becomes coated with a thick, 
sticky substance like molasses that traps anything foolish enough to 
touch it. Any person attacking the fomor with Brawl gets stuck to the 
fomor like a fly on flypaper, and she cannot use the limb until she pulls 
it free with a successful Physical Challenge. If the fomor is hit with a 
melee weapon, he may make a Physical Challenge with his attacker to 
wrench the weapon out of his opponent’s hand. Fomori with this Power 
are also subject to The Crusties. 
Umbral daassage 
The fomor is able to step sideways in and out of the Umbra just like a 
Garou, except that he makes a Willpower Challenge, rather than Gnosis. 
122 


Webbing 
The fomor has a special gland about the size and shape of a football over 
his abdomen; the organ’s orifice usually lies above the navel. This spinneret 
can spin massive amounts of gunk rather like spider silk. Fomori must learn 
how to utilize Webbing by purchasing Webmaking as a Crafts specialization. 
Skilled weavers may seal off passages or objects, capture opponents or lower 
themselves from high positions. Webbing has six health levels. It is extremely 
strong and sticky, allowing the fomor to entrap his prey. Entrapped victims 
must make a Static Physical Challenge resisted by the web‘s eight Physical 
Traits. The webbing is thicker than a spider’s, almost one inch in diameter, 
but it is very sheer and hard to see from a distance. 
Taints 
Taints are the con to the pro of fomori Powers. They embody the 
disfigurement that the Wyrm wreaks on the body. 
Abbiction 
The fomor must engage in a particular addictive activity (such as 
smoking cigars, drinking coffee, eating human flesh, taking drugs, etc.) 
within a certain span of time (once every 36 hours, once a week, etc.) or 
suffer great pain. For every cycle that the fomor does not assuage his 
addiction, he is overcome with wracking pain. He suffers a one-Trait 
penalty to every Physical Challenge for each successive cycle he misses. 
When the amount of penalty Traits equals the number of Physical Traits the 
fomor possesses, he dies. 
Wrainwasheb 
The Bane within has really done a number on the fomor’s mind, 
forcing her to believe what it wants. This brainwashing comes in the form 
of a powerful, obsessive belief - 
the most common of which is a rabid 
loyalty to Pentex. Such fomori are company men (women/ things) to the 
death. Other beliefs can be a religious zeal for the Wyrm or one of its 
manifestations, a paranoid suspicion of “softies” humans, a diehard belief 
that Garou are demons out to destroy the earth, or any other extreme 
conviction that may well lead the fomor into a dangerous, no-compromise 
situation. Whenever the fomor’s belief is questioned, he will usually go 
through three distinct stages: denial, anger and finally doubt. For in- 
stance, if a Garou were to try to convince a Pentex-loyal fomor that 
Pentex is bad for him and the world, the fomor would first scoff at such a 
thought. If proof were brought forward, the fomor would believe it was a 
trick, and he might try to attack the bearer of such evidence. If undeniable 
proof piles up, then the fomor may begin to doubt - 
and thus his world 
falls to pieces. Such fomori become suicidal, and usually try to destroy the 
former object of their beliefs. 
123 


Khe Crusties 
Think of the worst case of dandruff ever seen. Now imagine it over the 
entire body and multiply its severity a hundred times. That’s The Crusties, a 
malady common to fomori with the Slobber Snot or Tar Baby Powers. For three 
to 10 days every month, the fomor’s skin dries out and is covered with a thick, 
crusty residue. This residue flakes off in large crumbly pieces, and it leaves a 
trail of fine brown powder everywhere the fomor goes. The dust collects in 
clothes, lungs and especially eyes (take a one-Trait penalty to Dexterity- and 
Perception-related challenges due to the discomfort). No matter how much 
the fomor scratches, picks or bathes (the very thought of bathing is enough 
to terrify many fomori), there seems to be no way of easing it. 
Oerangement 
Many of the Wyrm’s chosen return from their genesis twisted in not just 
body, but mind as well. While it is rare to have more than one derangement, 
it is possible. The following is a list of common derangements. Storytellers 
should feel free to create their own. 
Amnesia: The fomor can remember nothing of her life before 
becoming a fomor. 
Delusions ofGrandeur: The fomor believes she has been “chosen” by the 
Wyrm, and only she can perform the deeds necessary for its ultimate conquest. 
Why won’t others recognize this? 
Habromania: The fomor has a constant morbid gaiety that others 
may find perverse. He doesn’t necessarily crack jokes about it, but he 
may giggle at the most inappropriate times or take inordinate pleasure 
in bad events. 
Hallucinations: The fomor was so unhinged by the Bane possession that 
her very perceptions now reverberate with its meaningless madness. At 
random times, she sees and hears things that are not really there. 
Homicidal: The fomor is filled with a lust to kill, to the point of ignoring 
orders or jeopardizing his own safety. 
Klazomania: The fomor has a constant compulsion to shout, rather 
than speak normally. 
Masochism: The fomor takes inappropriate pleasure when pain is in- 
flicted on him, and he will rarely pass up an opportunity to have pain inflicted 
(even to the point of staying on too long in a fight). 
Multiple Personalities: The fomor has different “people” inside her who 
seek expression. Sometimes she can control which one comes to the fore, but 
most times, she cannot. No one knows where these split sides come from. 
They may be latent possibilities awoken within the fomor, remnants of abuse 
from the fomor’s mortal days or multiple possessing Banes. 
Obsession: The fomor fixated on something during her possession, and 
she cannot forget it. Every moment, it swims into her consciousness, and she 
believes that she must pursue until it ceases to haunt her .... 
124 


Paranoia: The fomor believes that something even worse than the 
possessing Bane tried to get to her during transformation, and it will be back. 
Anyone or anything could be the scouts of this hidden enemy. 
Phagomania: The fomor has an obsession with food all the time, and he 
feels the need to consume constantly, even when he’s not hungry. 
Phobia: The fomor fears one thing greatly, and she will do anything to 
avoid it, to the point of abandoning her task to get away from it. It could be 
daylight, nature, technology, humans, clowns, wolves, snakes, spiders, closed 
spaces, the dark etcetera. Be creative - 
the threat should be something that 
could be encountered in everyday life. 
Sadism: The fomor takes inappropriate pleasure at causing pain and 
suffering in others, and he may delay leaving battle if it means he can get in 
a parting shot at someone. 
Temperamental: The fomor is prone to frenzy (with none of the 
benefits) if he is pushed too far. This Taint is common among fomori who 
have the Berserker Power. 
Infections 
Choose a particular Power to pair with this Taint. Whenever some- 
thing goes wrong with the use of that Power, the fomor suffers agangrenous 
infection. The fomor will lose one health level per day until he is 
Incapacitated. This damage will heal after one week, at the rate of one 
level per day. 
Inner Uolcano 
Burn, baby bum! Inside the Bane-ridden one, temperatures rise to un- 
healthy levels. She has a perpetual fever, strong enough to break most 
thermometers under the best of circumstances. When she’s under stress or 
exertion, this fever literally cooks her from within. Death by this Taint is 
gruesome and unpleasant. Each three turns of hard physical labor (combat, 
running, heavy lifting, etc.) inflicts one non-soakable lethal health level on the 
hapless fomor. Naturally, anyone who gets too close to the fomor during this 
stage shares her pain. A person who holds, carries, sleeps with or operates on 
the burning fomor before she cools down suffers a health level of lethal damage 
unless he insulates himself somehow from the heat. 
Mental me-evolution 
Choose a particular Power to pair with this Taint. Whenever this 
Power is used, the character may suffer a temporary loss in mental capability. 
However, the more frequently the fomor uses the Power, the more perma- 
nent the Mental De-evolution becomes. Every time the Power paired with 
this Taint is used, the fomor must make a Willpower Challenge with the 
Storyteller. If the player succeeds, there is no effect. If he is unsuccessful, the 
character loses a Mental Trait permanently. When the fomor reaches zero 
Mental Traits, he dies. 
125 


bhysical Wasting 
Choose a particular Power to pair with this Taint. Whenever that Power 
is used, the fomor suffers a loss in physical capability. The loss is temporary, 
although the more frequently the Power is used, the more permanent the 
wasting becomes. Every time the Power paired with this Taint is used, the 
fomor must make a Willpower Challenge with the Storyteller. If he succeeds, 
there is no effect. If he is unsuccessful, the character loses a Physical Trait 
permanently. When the fomor reaches zero Physical Traits, he dies. 
Rotting 
The fomor is rotting away; over a period of months, his body will fall 
apart. Every time the fomor suffers more damage from a single blow than half 
of his health levels, he will lose whichever part of his body was hit (which 
might kill him if someone strikes his head or heart). In addition, once per 
month, the fomor will lose part of his body. Early on, he might just lose fingers 
and toes, but in the latter stages, his arms or legs begin to rot away. Eventually, 
he may begin voiding his internal organs through his bowels. If the fomor has 
the Power: Regeneration, his lost limbs will grow back in one month, although 
he may lose them again. 
Seuere Allergy 
The fomor is very allergic to something, such as plastic or a pesticide. This 
thing causes the fomor damage, although it may be perfectly harmless to 
others. In addition to breaking out in distinguishing rashes, he suffers one 
health level of bashing damage each turn that he is exposed to it. This damage 
will not heal as long as the fomor is exposed to the allergen. 
Special #iet 
The fomor cannot gain sustenance from normal food sources. He requires 
food of a different sort, the sort that is dangerous to get, such as blood, human 
flesh or fomor flesh. It is simply the only food source on which the fomor can 
survive. The fomor can gain nourishment from only this special food source. 
Going too long without this food results in the loss of one health level per day, 
reflecting the fomor’s slow and painful starvation. 
Celebementia 
The fomor is a powerful telepath, or at least she thinks so. Iliad scientists 
have confirmed the reality of Tekdementia, but its usefulness is questionable. 
Fomori with this Taint (sometimes called Psychonauts; also Psycho-nuts) are 
receiving telepathic messages, but the content is garbled, sick and deranged. 
Psychonauts consider the world a living hell. They are bombarded daily with 
only the vilest of thoughts around them. These thoughts are further twisted 
and increased in intensity by the Bane within them. Everyone in the world is 
either a worthless victim or a sadistic brute. There is no middle ground. The 
Psychonaut may revel in this condition, but she also perceives everyone to be 
126 


plotting against her. Since the information from this kind of telepathy is so 
distorted, information gained through it is usually worthless. (The Storyteller 
may let an occasional truth slip in, but the fomor shouldn’t be able to tell the 
difference.) Psychonauts must make a Willpower Challenge every day, lest 
they become trapped in a harrowing psychic loop where reality is completely 
altered. Fomori caught in these loops often go on killing sprees. They will 
attack allies, as well as enemies and innocent bystanders. Pentex often gives 
other fomori the authority to put Psychonauts down hard and fast if this 
occurs. Psychonauts have short life spans, even by fomor standards. 
Ugly as Sin 
The character is horribly ugly, possibly because of a facial disfigurement 
or a tragic accident, or because of another Power which makes the fomor 
unable to pass among humans without eliciting an extreme reaction. Treat 
this Taint as permanent Repugnant x 3. 
Walking Womb 
Pentex has implanted a safeguard in the fomor to protect themselves - 
a bomb in her head. They can activate it anytime they want, and they can do 
so from any distance. Only they can disarm it, but a bomb expert must do so 
in person. When activated, the bomb will explode in the fornor’s head for 
eight levels of aggravated damage, anyone standing too close to the blast will 
suffer lethal or aggravated damage at the Storyteller’s call. If she survives, 
Pentex may send First Teams out to finish the job. 
Worms 
This foul Taint personifies the Wyrm’s influence, for the infested 
character hosts parasitical worms. These worms cause him endless pain and 
periodically emerge from his mouth, ears or other orifices. Unless he vomits 
them up at least once a day, the worms will swell his belly, clog his internal 
passages and begin to eat organs. If some circumstance keeps him frompurging 
the worms from his system, he will sustain one level of aggravated damage per 
day until the worms consume him utterly. 
Attacks that include Worms must be bought with Stomach Pumper. If used 
in combination with a Power, the Worms cause an added level of aggravated 
damage on top of any other damage that a target suffers. 
aanes 
Banes - 
the very name conjures images of something foul and dreadful. 
It’s easy to blame them for the ills of the World of Darkness - 
after all, don’t 
they possess the unwary, creating fomori, and ride their hosts into causing 
havoc and misery? That statement is true, but it’s not the whole story. Banes 
are symptoms of the world’s misery, not the root cause. Banes are created as 
humanity sells out Gaia for a quick buck or an easy lifestyle, and they are 
drawn to places of human suffering. There must be something to create and 
127 


feed them, and more often than not, that job falls on the unknowing soul of 
humanity at large. 
Only the really big Banes are powerful enough to be antagonists. Most of 
the smaller Banes are either in service to a larger one, or they cluster in swarms 
since they are too weak to do much damage on their own. 
Witter Rages 
Bitter Rages are unusual among Banes, in that they possess hosts but do 
monsters are the spi 
Social Disciplines, and their 
calm these frenzies. 
Rage 8, Gnosis 6, Willpower 8, Essence 60 
Charms: Airt Sense, Possession, Raging, Re-form 
Raging -With 
each Essence Trait the Bitter Rage spends, it can 
increase its target's Rage by one Trait. Creatures without Rage cost two 
Essence Traits. The increase is usually gradual; the target becomes more 
snappish and irritable, with all the benefits and drawbacks of increasing Rage. 
The Bitter Rage can up the ante, however, and send any target it has touched 
into a full-throttle frenzy. 
Greebers 
These foul things are responsible for the Ferectoi, and they are little more 
than mobile wombs. Breeders materialize and rape sleeping humans (male and 
128 


female), stealing either sperm or eggs to create new Ferectoi. It covers its tracks 
by using potent Charms that cause the victim to believe that the rape was 
nothing more than a frightful dream. In the Umbra, the Breeder lets its new life 
gestate, returning to the physical realm when it’s time to birth a new Ferectoi. 
Rage 5, Gnosis 6, Willpower 5, Essence 25 
Charms: Airt Sense, Breeding Trance, Materialize (Essence cost 9; 3 
Physical Traits, Stealth x 3, 7 health levels) 
Breeding Trance - 
This Charm allows the Breeder to rape its human 
victim and then cover the memories so that the human believes that the 
attack was only a dream when he awakens. (Essence cost 5) 
Orattosi 
These Banes prefer to lair in the Umbra in radioactive pits, on the watch for 
Umbral travelers. They look like giant crustaceans or ant lions with multiple thorns 
covering their rust and black shells, and huge claws with sharp pinchers. If the 
Wyrm is about deception and false promise, then these Banes surely embody it. 
Drattosi create illusions to lure prey toward their pits, using Charms to 
pull images of the most appropriate or appealing bait from a target’s mind. 
Victims often come within touching distance of the illusion when the trap is 
sprung. Drattosi are highly intelligent predators that can speak with Garou or 
other spirits, but they usually don’t bother. They often know agreat deal about 
the areas around their lairs - 
both in the Umbra and the real world - 
provided someone can wring the information from them. 
Rage 7, Gnosis 8, Willpower 5, Essence 30 + whatever it has consumed lately 
Charms: Airt Sense, Consume Essence, Illusory Desire 
Consume Essence - 
With this Charm, the Drattosi can eat another 
spirit and gain its power. Spirits eaten this way do not re-form. The Drattosi 
must attack the spirit and beat it down, draining Essence with every successful 
hit. Any extra Essence fades in 24 hours if not spent. This Charm can even 
eat a spirit or Garou’s Gnosis in the same fashion. 
Illusory Desire -With 
a successful Willpower Challenge, the Drattosi 
can pull an image from its target’s mind, then create an illusion with that 
image for two Essence Traits. The Bane can read only one mind at a time, but 
it can use its power on more than one victim. 
Oream Makers 
These Banes are the classic djinni, the creatures somewhere between 
angels and demons who grant every wish, no matter how petty. These Banes 
were once the servants of the Weaver and the Wyld, helping to create the 
world when the universe and the Triat were young. Thankfully, they have a 
shadow of the power that they once wielded as world-makers, but their 
masters are entirely different.. .. 
Dream Makers work on a simple principle - 
it’s so much easier to 
convert people when you give them what they want. These Banes have 
129 


been around for centuries, in various forms, but with the same purpose of 
corrupting the bitter and angry by granting their desires. They choose 
their “masters” carefully, looking for those who are morally and spiritually 
bankrupt and whose wishes serve the Wyrm. The one thing that prevents 
them from wholesale destruction is the complicated rules that bind them. 
Dream Makers are bound outside Gaia’s Realm, unable to enter unless 
they are invited. They are incredibly malicious and ruthlessly powerful, 
but they can act on only the desires of humans. They will fulfill their 
masters’ wishes, but with their own special touch. They also work to 
encourage their masters to make a wish that they materialize in the Gaia 
Realm - 
which has come perilously close to happening on several 
occasions. Should its master die, the Dream Maker will depart to find a 
new one - 
there are plenty to choose from. 
Dream Makers look however they want to look, especially if it will help 
their work with their masters. Some go for the classic Hollywood look of 
turbans and Arabic clothing, some for a scantily clad voluptuous harem girl, 
and others prefer to look perfectly normal. A few pull out the old myths of 
djinni, looking like something straight out of The Thousand and One Nights 
(which isnot necessarily agood thing). Thenewest trend is to look like angels. 
Rage 10, Gnosis 10, Willpower 10, Essence 300 
Charms: Airt Sense, Amor, Alter Reality, Break Reality, Blighted Touch, 
Calcify, Cleanse the Blight, Cowupion, Create Fire, Create Wind, Disorient, 
Flood, Freeze, FrozenBreath, Healing, Ice Shards, LighmingBolts, Materialize, Re- 
form, Shapeshift, Solidify Reality, Trucking, Umbraquake, Updraft 
Gray Masses (ana Gray Men) 
Gray Masses were once servants of the Wyld, fungi that assisted in the 
cycle of life by doing what all fungi do naturally- breaking down dead matter 
(in this case, dead spirit matter) and returning it to creation. Now they rank 
among the Wyrm’s corrupted servants, and ignore their duties of tending the 
dead in order to infest the living. In the Umbra, these creatures are by and 
large an ignorable nuisance, simply a noisome smell that festers and waits. 
Should they enter the Gaia Realm by some breach in the Gauntlet (easily 
done when one is a fungus), they grow with frightening speed. Almost as soon 
as they arrive, materializing as normal-seeming fungal spores, the Gray Masses 
find hosts and start multiplying. They can spread their spores no differently 
than any other fungus, but with much worse results. 
Gray Masses have no Umbral allies, and 99 percent are destroyed by 
Garou, other shapeshifters, other Banes or some other threat. These Banes 
have no real spiritual presence, being tiny fungus spores in the Umbra. They 
become more obvious when they manifest in their hosts, called Gray Men. 
They live only to consume and corrupt whatever living matter they come 
across. Their hosts can maintain rational thought (no doubt watching their 
transformation), but their possession spreads very quickly. An entire village 
might be infected within a week. 
130 


Gray Men are the fomori that result when Gray Masses infect humans, 
although the Bane will accept any living host. Like their masters, Gray Men 
are parasites that live only to spread this blight to any other living creature. 
They look like little more than animated heaps of fungus that are capable of 
combat and some limited rational thought. Their greasy-looking gray skin 
releases a foul slime that spreads Gray Mass spores in the form of a highly 
contagious infection. If killed, Gray Men explode like giant puffball mush- 
rooms, releasing millions upon millions of spores. While most are shuffling 
mushroom farms, a few are said to be capable of deep thought and can achieve 
contact with the Wyrm. No one knows if there are old and powerful Gray Men 
out there, but the possibility certainly exists, and those who speculate on this 
agree that they never want to meet with one. 
Gray Men Powers: Fungal Touch, Immunity to the Delirium 
Rage 0, Gnosis 4, Willpower 2, Essence10 
Charms: Blighted Touch, Corruption, Possession, Sporing 
Sporing- Gray Masses live to reproduce, and this is how they do it. On 
discovering a suitable host, they make themselves comfortable and start 
multiplying. For each Essence Trait spent, the Gray Mass can make a 
duplicate of itself. Each of these duplicates is as powerful as the original and 
it also starts multiplying when it finds a suitable host. Each Bane is capable of 
producing eight or nine copies of itself, all of which are capable of creating 
another fomor, which will have plenty of Gray Masses busily producing copies 
of themselves.. . . 
dDkantasmi 
Phantasmi are the remains of the truly wretched fomori who find no 
peace in death. Those who die at the hands of Garou become bound to 
the site of their death, watching and waiting for a Garou (or any shifter) 
to come within reach. Unable to escape the Wyrm’s hold on their 
spirits, they know only an endless thirst for revenge, and they can be 
quite efficient when it comes to carrying out that revenge. Unfortu- 
nately, they cannot escape the places to which they are bound, nor can 
they act of their own free will - 
they must wait for a shifter to come 
within range. Worst of all, each is insane. Many Garou use stories of 
these creatures to warn reckless cubs about being aware of the conse- 
quences of one’s actions. 
Since the Phantasmi have no solid forms of their own, they build them 
from whatever is handy - 
from plastics to papers to wires to toxic waste. 
Even more disturbing, the different forms can result in a variety of attacks, 
from a liquid attack that gags the victim to claws to stinging wires whipping 
about the face. 
Rage 10, Gnosis 6, Willpower 5, Essence 50 
Charms: Airt Sense, Materialize (10 Physical Traits, Athletics, Brawl x 2, 
Dodge, Melee) 
131 


Ooralath 
They were once the servants of the Weaver under a forgotten name. 
Now, they are the Hounds of the Wyrm, corrupted into his service. Known 
for their perseverance and teamwork, the Ooralath will stop at nothing until 
their prey is run to ground or they are destroyed. These hunters have become 
mindlessly and brutally efficient -good for terrifyingly effective pack tactics, 
but poor for creativity or cleverness. They prowl the lonely places in the 
Umbra, hunting lone travelers and Net-Spiders. 
Ooralath look like a strange cross between hounds and dinosaurs. Their 
bodies are composed of thick, serrated shells that clack when they run. Their 
Weaver-nature has had a strange side effect on their corruption - 
they have 
only static physical forms in the Umbra, and should they be dragged into the 
physical world (they cannot materialize on their own), their forms are 
completely mortal. 
Attributes: Dedicated x 2, Determined x 3, Ferocious x 2, Quick, Tireless x 
2, Tough x 3 
Abilities: Athletics x 2, Brawl x 2, Dodge, Primal-Urge x 2 
Rage 5, Gnosis 3, Willpower 7, Essence 50 
Charms: Airt Sense, Armor (three levels), Burrowing, Embody (no cost; 
permanent Charm) 
Burrowing With this Charm, the Ooralath can burrow through any 
ground, Umbral or physical, as easily as a fish swims through water (one 
Essence per turn). 
Embody- This Charm is nearly identical to Materialize, except the 
Ooralath is not building a physical body. Instead, it spends Essence to create 
a more suitable combat form in the Umbra. 
Scryers 
Scryers are weakservitor Banes that typically bind themselves to the service 
of a larger Bane or spirit for the purposes of spying, which is rewarded with 
Essence. They have no means of attack, and they prefer to flee or use Re-form to 
escape. No one knows if they have any other purpose beyond spying, and some 
wonder if there are other types of Banes that are similarly specialized. 
Scryers are generally thin and fleshy, easily ripped apart. They seem to be 
made up of too many eyes of all different types - 
from a cat’s luminous gaze 
to a hawk’s amber eyes to an insect’s compound eyes to the beady multiple eyes 
of a spider or bloodshot human eyes and anything in between. Subjects of a 
Scryer’s gaze (with Gnosis of 7 or greater) can often feel the sensation of the 
Bane’s scrutiny, and they have the uncomfortable feeling of being watched. 
Garou with Pulse of the Invisible or Umbral Sight may be able to spot their 
tormentors from the physical realm, but those without such Gifts may be 
driven slowly mad by the constant observation. 
Rage 2, Gnosis 7, Willpower 4, Essence 30 
Charms: Airt Sense, Re-form, Report, Scry 
132 


Report - 
This Charm allows the Scryer to maintain a mental link 
Scry - 
This Charm allows a Scryer to peek into the material world 
with its patron for one Essence per turn. 
from the Umbra and use Scent of the True Form on whomever it sees. 
W y r  m holes 
Once, when the cosmos was in the balance, Wyrmholes were spirit 
doorways that allowed the creatures of Balance to walk from the spirit world 
to the physical realm wherever they needed to be. With the collapse of that 
order, Wyrmholes have become some of the Corrupter’s deadliest weapons, 
allowing the Wyrm to spew monstrosities across the landscape. Most times, 
these Banes form in the air or water to create a one-way passage to Gaia for 
other Wyrm-creatures. More common, however, are living hosts that wel- 
come the Wyrmhole and the power it grants, including some control over 
whatever disasters spill from them. Worse, these once-rare Banes are becom- 
ing more common all the time. 
In the spirit world, these very dangerous Banes look like waterspouts 
made of some oily spirit material. The passage of Banes swells the Wyrmhole, 
like an egg being swallowed by a snake. When a Wyrmhole possesses a human 
or animal, the host develops eyes of swirling indigo, and static electricity 
seems to follow the new fomor. Fomori of Wyrmholes often gain amazing 
powers, not only from the Wyrmhole itself, but fromother grateful Banes, who 
need not expend their precious energy to materialize. 
Rage 0, Gnosis 10, Willpower 0, Essence 200 
Charms: Gateway, Possession, Re-form 
Gateway- With this Charm, the Wyrmhole can use Materialize on 
other Banes, spending its own Essence to bring the creatures through without 
any expenditure on their part. The cost to the Wyrmhole is no different that 
the passenger’s cost to materialize on its own. Even Banes that normally 
cannot materialize can do so through a Wyrmhole. If it is in a mortal host, the 
Wyrmhole must still keep track of its Essence, regaining it at one per day. 
WyrmLlementals 
The following creatures are Gafflings of the Elemental Wyrms (described in 
Chapter Two). They have little individual personality, and they prefer to cluster 
in “safe”p1aces in the Umbra, such as Blights, Hellholes or the Scar. Each by itself 
is a minor threat to the average Garou; in droves, however, they become deadly. 
Furinlings (dalefire) 
Like mad fireflies, these elementals glow with a strange, irradiated 
phosphorescence and resemble glowing blobs of napalm, darting frantically 
and rarely staying in one place for long. 
Rage 10, Gnosis 5 ,  Willpower 5, Essence 30 
Charms: Airt Sense, Blast Flame 
133 


These creatures look like thick clouds of the most noxious urban smog, 
usually bluish in color and sometimes showing a facial feature or two. They 
prefer to roil and hover ominously over their targets. 
Rage 8, Gnosis 7, Willpower 3, Essence 40 
Charms: Airt Sense, Create Wind, Re-form, Updraft 
H’rugglings (Slubge) 
Seasoned Umbral travelers recognize these things by their passage - 
a 
trail of raw sewage. H’rugglings appear as roiling piles of the stuff with an 
appropriately nauseating stench. 
Rage 3, Gnosis 5, Willpower 9, Essence 40 
Charms: Urnbraquake 
Wakshaani (Coxins) 
The toxin elementals prefer to appear as sheets of purplish fluid with 
constantly shifting features including veins, blotches or bubbling pustules. 
When attacking prey, they wash over their targets like waves. 
Rage 7, Gnosis 7, Willpower 3, Essence 40 
Charms: Blighted Touch, Flood 
Monsters 
The Wyrm has a great many tools at its disposal, some that the other 
shapeshifters have only guessed at. What lurks below the surface of the world? 
Only a few know, and many times, that knowledge drives them mad. They 
have seen where the monsters dwell. The Black Spiral Dancers maintain some 
of these creatures by feeding them in exchange for service, although who is 
getting the better deal is hard to say. 
Monsters are the least subtle of the Wyrm’s minions - 
they are weapons of 
outright terror and carnage, and they prefer to make use of such tactics rather 
than quieter means. When using monsters, Storytellers should emphasize that 
these are things that should not be. There is nothing natural about these 
aberrations, who have somehow managed to exist on the fringes of civilization 
and the mind for centuries, preying on the strays and unfortunates. Don’t haul 
them out too much, though. Monsters terrify best by being little-known and even 
less understood, even by the most wise or seasoned shifters, and that which is too 
familiar will be reduced to rubber-mask scariness. Further, don’t use a bazooka to 
shoot a mosquito - 
cubs and cliath are no match for a full complement of War 
Wolves, unless you want to emphasize to some cocky youngsters that attitude 
doesn’t handle every problem. Consider the amount of threat and danger that 
you want to introduce with the ranks of the characters and feel free to adjust the 
monsters’ Attributes. It’s no fun to have opponents who are too large to make a 
dent in them, or so small that elder characters can dust them off in an afternoon. 
134 


Blood Vines are semi-sentient predatory vines that exist solely to eat and 
multiply. The plant bears a striking resemblance to kudzu, except for the long, 
thin, flexible thorns on the vines, and it has a texture similar to raw meat. Few 
Garou have encountered them, and tales of the monstrous plants are hard to 
come by. Some believe that Blood Vines were nearly destroyed long ago 
through a concerted effort, but apparently someone managed to preserve 
some clippings and raise the plant back into full growth. 
Blood Vines infest a host by forcing themselves into the host’s body and 
slowly devouring it from the inside. As the fluids and organs are consumed, 
new vines grow to take up the space. Despite the violation, the host appears 
If. When the host is 
ne attempts to imitate human life as 
a camouflage while waiting for its offshoots to grow, a process that takes five 
days. More than one Blood Vine may possess a host. If encountered outside 
a host or driven from a host, the Blood Vines attempt to ensnare their 
attacker, and if successful, will start attempting to infest him. A Blood Vine 
attempting to fight through a host has only the meager skills of a child. 
Heart Lafers 
Heart Eaters are among the most cruel of Wyrm-monsters, feeding 
eagerly on pure emotion, particularly fear and pain. This Wyrmling serves 
Empress Aliara, the Countess of Desire, and by sadistic acts of betrayal, she 
leads victims ever closer to the Countess’ domain and servitude to the Wyrm. 
The Heart Eater’s preferred targets are lovers. It chooses one to attack, 
then it devours the brain and heart, using a crude divination to discover the 
135 


other’s identity and something of the personality of the first victim. It then 
flays the victim and wears her skin as a costume, contorting its own body to 
fit perfectly inside the skin. A Heart Eater’s charade can last for days or even 
weeks, with the skin a seamless natural fit, until it tires of the game and 
chooses to reveal itself. But the Heart Eater’s worst act is to use its ill-gotten 
knowledge to plan a betrayal against the lover, something cruel, at the time 
that will cause the most fear and pain. 
Heart Eaters often leave their victims alive, in the hope that the betrayal 
will grow into something much worse. Sadly, it often does. Fear and bitterness 
often spiral into rage, frustration and emotional devastation, which lead the 
victim one step closer to Empress Aliara’s desires. Heart Eaters are cowards by 
and large, preferring emotional damage to messy physical conflict. Their main 
purpose is corruption, not murder. Human targets are most likely to be killed, 
although some are left alive to enjoy repeat visits by the monsters, which 
drives them insane eventually. Garou and other supernatural creatures are 
also favored targets, particularly since their isolation from most of humanity 
makes the betrayal that much more potent. 
Attributes: &le, 
Alluring, Beguiling x 3, Charming, Creative, Dexterous x 
2, Discerning x 2, Energetic, Expressive x 2, Friendly, Gorgeous x 2, Graceful, 
Insightful, Patient x 2, Persuusive, Reflective x 2, Seductive 
Abilities: Empathy x 2, Expression, Investigation, Perfarmance 2, Subterfuge x 2 
Rage 5, Gnosis 8, Willpower 6 
Health Levels: Normal 
Powers: Body-Barbs, Clean Scent, Empathy, Extra Limbs, Sting 
Clean Scent -The 
Heart Eater spends one Gnosis, which allows it to 
hide its Wyrm-taint for one scene. Gifts that detect Wyrm-taint findnothing 
out of the ordinary, and other supernatural means of spotting corruption 
likewise find nothing. 
Empathy- 
By winning a Mental Challenge (retest with the Empathy 
Ability) and some concentration on its target, the Heart Eater can determine 
whom its target loves most passionately. This same power used on the target’s 
love can determine if the lover returns the feelings. Further, if a Heart Eater 
consumes a lover’s brain and heart and spends two Gnosis Traits before using 
this power, it can impersonate its victim successfully. 
Sting - 
The Heart Eater can inject a powerful venom into its target, 
paralyzing him for one scene. 
5kull doigs 
Skull Pigs look like very large wild boars that reek of the grave. Only very 
thin, pale flesh covers their heads, giving the impression that their heads are 
only bare skull. Most shifters believe that the Skull Pigs were originally 
natural wild animals, such as tapirs and peccaries of ancient North America, 
that were corrupted somehow by the Wyrm’s influence. Skull Pigs travel in 
packs of three to seven, which are either families or a group of males. 
136 


Sometimes single, elderly males travel by themselves. They are believed to 
litter like normal pigs, although no one has ever seen very young Skull Pigs. 
Skull Pigs are carrion-eaters first and foremost, and their horrible diet grants 
them supernatural abilities. They tend to subsist on flesh and garbage, although 
toxic waste is considered a treat. They also root through graveyards for human 
bones, eating them to regain Rage. If they eat bones from a Wynmtaintedcreature, 
however, they gain a strange intelligence that makes them even more dangerous. 
Some, known as Voodoo Pigs, may even develop a talent for magical powers, 
learning the equivalent of one Gift for every Mental Trait they have. Storytellers 
may wish to consult sorcerous paths from Laws of the Hunt or Thaumaturgy from 
Laws of the Night to simulate this type of Skull Pig’s powers. The flesh of these 
creatures is deadly poisonous. Anyone who bites a Skull Pig suffers a level of 
aggravated damage, although Resist Toxin is proof against this damage. 
The Pigs almost always attack Garou, and they tend to ignore humans. 
Humans think they see a normal animal, (as per the Delirium). Normal Skull 
Pigs are possessed of animal cunning and little else, but Voodoo Pigs have a 
distinct, malevolent intelligence. These Pigs can easily ferret out weakness in 
a group and begin their attacks on the weakest. 
Of special note to Storytellers, the Skull Pigs are all that remain of the 
Grondr, or wereboar, shapechangers. These mighty beasts once served Gaia 
by grooming and cleaning her, rooting out parasites and taint. When the 
Garou had slaughtered most of them in the War of Rage, their boar-kin 
became domesticated pigs and their human Kinfolk were enslaved. The last 
Grondr gave himself to the Wyrm in despair, and the Skull Pigs emerged soon 
after. Very few shifters remember that the Grondr ever existed. 
Attributes: Alert, Brutal x 4, Cunning, Ferocious x 2, Quick x 2, Rugged x 
4, Tough x 2, Vigilant x 2, Vigorous (add more Mental Traits for Voodoo Pigs) 
Abilities: Athletics x 2, Brawl x 3, Dodge x 2, Intimidation x 3, Primal-Urge 
x 2, Stealth, Survival x 2 (Add Occult x 2 for Voodoo Pigs) 
Rage 5, Willpower 3 
Powers: Regeneration (as per Garou) 
Health Levels: 10 
‘Ckunbermyrms 
Uktena lore states that these massive creatures were spawned from 
radioactive soil at a nuclear test site. They are a threat unlike any that the 
Garou normally face. They can range in size from huge to gigantic, and those 
that werewolves encounter most frequently are usually30 feet long and nearly 
eight feet wide. The largest of them all - 
Grandmother Thundenvyrm, or 
“Grammaw”- is as long as two football fields, and she carries an entire Wyrm 
caern in her gut. The very smallest Thundenvyrms -presumably hatchlings 
- 
are five feet long. These pale gray pillars of flesh move silently under the 
earth, hiding all traces of their passage by literally devouring the earth, then 
defecating it behind them as they move. Thick, mucuslike stuff oozes from 
137 


their bodies constantly. They look much like earthworms with maws filled 
with jagged teeth, although some Garou report seeing aquatic varieties that 
resemble leeches. Rumor has it that the monsters’ numbers are swelling in 
preparation for the Apocalypse, and increasingly frequent encounters with 
Thundenvyrms would seem to bear this rumor out. 
Thunderwyrms are generally found in rural areas, and they develop 
unique patterns of attack. One may have favorite locations to terrorize, 
another comes out with storms, and another may have a haunt along a river’s 
length. Their tomadolike trails reek with obvious Wyrm-taint, but neither 
their slime or consumed soil indicates that they alter the ground where they 
pass. They can consume up to 70 times their body weight in vegetation (and 
other things), and they spend much of their time slumbering as their food is 
metabolized into sheer bulk. 
Attributes: Enduring x 3, Intuitive, Lithe x 3, Tireless, x 2, Tough x 5, 
Vigilant x 2 (Stats for an average Thundenvyrm of 25 ft.) 
Abilities: Athletics x 5, Brawl x 5 
Rage 6, Willpower 5 
Health Levels: 16 
Powers: Amur (four health levels), Burrow (as the Garou Gift, no 
Gnosis cost) 
War Wolves 
War Wolves are the result of Pentex experimentation on captured 
Garou. Using genetic material from their subjects, scientists have created 
monstrous killing machines that have neither morals nor any need to 
understand their prey. They are created from dogs and wolves who are 
genetically altered with Garou DNA, giving them fighting abilities as 
savage as the Garou and immunity to the Delirium. Only the flesh of Garou 
or Kinfolk satisfies their constant, gnawing hunger and strengthens them. 
Other meat is nourishing, but it does not strengthen and satisfy them the 
same way. Like wolves, they hunt in packs. Their very existence is consid- 
ered an insult to Garou everywhere, and they are the most terrible threats 
against their kin. 
War Wolves look like mangy, starving wolves or dogs with a variety 
of coat colors and patterns. In Crinos, they still have a slightly starved look 
but one tempered with savagery. They smell faintly of the Wyrm, and 
often of sickness as well, but they smell just enough of wolves that few 
Kinfolk recognize the danger until it’s too late. While they can shift forms, 
they are not part spirit like true Garou. Therefore, they can manage only 
two forms - 
Crinos and Lupus. They have no Gnosis, they cannot use 
Gifts, and they are not Garou in even the broadest of definitions. Silver 
affects them in the same way it affects Garou, and they can take on the best 
Ahroun, but in the end, they are not much different than fomori who 
think they’re werewolves. 
138 


Attributes: Bramy, Brutal x 2, Cunning x 2, Determined, Dexterous, 
Enduring x 2, lntimiduting x 3, Quick x 2, Vigorous, Wily x 2 
(Add Crinos or Lupus form modifiers as normal) 
Abilities: Athletics x 2, Brawl, Dodge, Primal-Urge, Stealth, Survival x 2 
Rage 6, Willpower 6 
Health Levels: As per a normal Garou 
Attacks: Claw and bite (aggravated damage) 
Powers: Immunity to Delirium, Regeneration 
The First @onin 
All Garou are told the story of the First Ronin, who was also the first 
metis. Legends say that he was ostracized and banished for the sins of his 
parents, then driven into the wilderness to die while still a pup. Legends also 
say that the Wyrm came to him, offering him friendship, and the grateful pup 
allied himself with the Corrupter. The Wyrm taught the deformed cub all that 
he needed to know to survive under any circumstance, and the lessons have 
not been wasted. 
Many Garou think that the story is just that - 
a cautionary tale about 
treating metis with respect, and a warning against walking alone. Those who 
have encountered the First Ronin, however, know that this tale is anything 
but. Many would-be Ronin have had their quest end in vicious bloody death, 
as the First Ronin exacts retribution against what was done to him. 
The First Ronin is said to stand almost 12 feet tall in Crinos form (the 
only shape anyone has ever seen him wear). His ghost-white skin is patterned 
with glyphs that describe the name and legend of whatever Garou he is facing. 
He is armed with silver claws and teeth that blacken the surrounding skin as 
they bum. His only expressions are hatred, rage and malice - 
he is without 
a shred of compassion for any creature, especially Garou. He never speaks, 
although he can be forced. His corruption is complete, and he will commit 
whatever atrocity his master commands of him. 
The First Ronin cannot be captured, but it is possible to escape him. He 
cannot be killed, but legends claim that some of the mightiest Garou have 
managed to best him (unfortunately, there are twice as many legends about 
how many mighty Garou fell before him). One of the deadliest foes any Garou 
could face, he is not something to throw at inexperienced Garou, unless the 
Storyteller wants to rack up a body count. A pack of cliath looking for the First 
Ronin is comparable to a bunch of kindergartners going out to find a grizzly 
bear - 
with similar results. If they’re very lucky, they won’t find anything. If 
they do encounter the First Ronin, it may be more worthwhile to scare them 
witless rather than butchering them. 
Traits: The First Ronin is at least as strong as whatever opponent he faces, and 
he knows every tribal Gift up to the Advanced level. He enjoys tormenting his prey, 
giving them just enough harrying to worry them about the coming fight. Single 
opponents he will face head-on; multiple opponents face hit+and-run attacks. 
139 


duzzarbs anb Other Fallen 
Changing areebs 
The Garou might be the only changers who have an entire tribe devoted to 
their great enemy, yet other changers have their individuals. The Wytm isn’t 
picky about who accepts its devotion, and if it happens to be another Changing 
Breed or a Garou enemy, so much the better. These poor souls are proof that no 
one is immune to the Wyrm’s blandishments. Their presence in a story should 
encourage a shudder and a considering: “There, but for the grace of Gaia.. ..” 
durzarbs (Fallen Corax) 
Just as Corax are not “born,” but are carefully crafted from the mystical 
union between human or raven host and spirit egg, so fallen Corax are formed 
from a grotesque perversion of the Rite of the Fetish Egg. 
Making a Buzzard involves locating a spirit egg, which is not an easy task 
since these rare and treasured items - 
the spiritual essence of true Corax - 
are 
guarded jealously. Usually, Black Spiral Dancers are the culprits in the theft of 
a spirit egg. As the prize is carried back to Malfeas, the spiritual connection of the 
egg begins to fray and finally snaps. This traumatic experience not only severs the 
mystical connection between the spirit egg and its original host but tends to drive 
the human or raven linked to it incurably insane. 
One of two things happens when the connection breaks. Either the 
substance of the egg dissipates so that the Corax-stuff disappears and the egg 
becomes an empty shell (the best-case scenario), or else the kidnappers make 
it back to Malfeas with the egg relatively intact (the worst-case scenario). 
Safely ensconced in Malfeas, the kidnappers place the egg, along with a 
stolen human infant, into a “birthing pit.” The Rite of the Broken Wing takes 
place, mocking in its form the sacred Rite ofthe Fetish Egg that originally linked 
the Coraxeto-be with its humanor ravencounterpart. If the rite fails, the egg’s 
essence fades and the mortal child dies. If the rite succeeds, the human and 
egg form a bond, and a false Corax (or Buzzard) emerges. 
Since Buzzards resemble Corax closely except for their twisted origins 
and even more twisted upbringing, they still retain Gnosis, renown and other 
characteristics of their breed. They have not, like Black Spiral Dancers, 
walked the Black Spiral, and they do not serve as hosts for Banes. They are 
simply twisted, perverted Corm who work for the Wyrm. 
Buzzards usually grow up in the company of Black Spiral Dancers or other 
Wyrm-driven shapeshifters. They learn from their earliest age whatever 
Corax lore their mentors have managed to acquire. Usually, these pathetic 
individuals are driven mad from infancy due to the trauma of their creation, 
which makes them fit company for their caregivers, who are often insane 
themselves. Young Buzzards learn the arts of sabotage, assassination, stealth 
and reconnaissance along with whatever mystical rites they can absorb. They 
I40 


are taught to operate solo, as befits any true Corax, for their job is to serve as 
a spy and an infiltrator. 
In their late teen years, Buzzards are turned out into the world to make 
their way as best as they can, inserting themselves where they are able into 
Corm society. As spies, they absorb as much information as they can then 
(true to their quasi-Corm nature) blurt it out to the first servant of the Wyrm 
that they happen upon. Of primary importance to Black Spiral Dancers is the 
discovery, through the spying efforts of their Buzzard flunkies, of how much 
the C o r a  know of what the minions of the Wyrm are up to. This information 
is prized above inconsequential tidbits of Corax comings and goings. 
Buzzards also work as agents of misinformation and disorganization. Break- 
ing up the smooth workings of Corm society gains kudos for Buzzards from their 
Black Spiral masters. General espionage work also falls under the provenance of 
Buzzards, who try to get as close as possible to moots and other gatherings of 
Changing Breeds to find out what the enemies of the Wyrm are up to. 
Lastly, Corax scour the Umbra searching for other spirit eggs. For some 
reason, Buzzards cannot touch these eggs themselves, but they generally mark 
their location and then return leading a group of Black Spirals who do the dirty 
deed. 
Systems 
The Rite of the Broken Wing forces together human and Corax into an 
uncomfortable mix that holds a few telltale signs to observant onlookers that 
something is “not quite right with that bird.” Most Buzzards display some 
nervous tics, weird mannerisms or other odd behavior patterns. Each Buzzard 
character begins with one derangement and two Negative Physical Traits, 
such as Clumsy, Nervous or something equally appropriate. In addition, many 
141 


Buzzards display some form of metis physical deformity such as a total lack of 
feathers. Buzzards all possess one metis deformity (see Laws of the Wild for 
examples, and adapt where necessary). 
Buzzards are rejected by both Raven and Helios, who will not serve as 
totem spirits for them. In addition, Buzzards, along with fallen Mokol6, may 
suffer the effects of Sunbane should they prove so offensive to Helios that he 
decides to mark them with the signs of his displeasure. 
Giff 
5 
Buzzards may not learn the following Gifts: Raven’s Gleaning, Truth of 
Gaia, Word Beyond, Sky’s Beneficence, Swalloeo’s Return, Sun’s Guard, Helios’ 
Child, Moments of Eclipse or Theft ofstars. They do, however, have their own 
Gifts, either stolen from or taught by Banes and fallen bird spirits. 
Basic Gifts 
Targeted Heave: This power is one of the most disgusting weapons that 
a Buzzard can make use of. By winning a Physical Challenge, the Buzzard can 
disgorge the contents of his stomach - 
including digestive juices - 
at a 
target up to 10 feet away. If the victim cannot dodge the attack, she takes two 
health levels of lethal damage. Anyone struck by this attack must also spend 
a Willpower Trait to resist stopping whatever they are doing and gagging from 
disgust and revulsion. 
Poisoned Flesh: The use of this Gift allows the Buzzard to taint the 
meat of a corpse - 
human, animal, roadkill or any other dead creature - 
rendering it poisonous. Even creatures that are used to eating carrion can gain 
no sustenance from meat subjected to Poisoned Flesh. The Buzzard spends a 
Willpower Trait and spits on the targeted corpse. Success in a Social 
Challenge means that the meat becomes highly poisonous. Shapechangers 
partaking of flesh affected by this Gift become violently ill for 24 hours unless 
they succeed in a Physical Test. In any case, a character takes one health level 
of lethal damage (which heals normally) from ingesting the tainted meat. 
Humans and animals suffer three levels of lethal damage. The sickness 
includes vomiting, dizziness and sometimes hallucinations. The victim also 
smells of the Wyrm until her sickness is purged. 
Intermediate Gifts 
Plague Feather: Through the use of this Gift, the Buzzard permeates one 
of his pinfeathers with a contagious disease and leaves it behind to entrap the 
unwary. The first three people to touch this feather fall prey to this disease. 
Children are particularly vulnerable and tend to infect their parents and 
playmates. The Buzzard must spend a point of Gnosis and a point of Willpower 
as well as succeed in a Social Challenge to infuse the target feather with the 
disease. The feather then infects the next three individuals who touch it with 
their bare hands. Garou and other shapeshifters may resist the disease with a 
successful Physical Challenge, or they may use Resist Toxin to cure themselves 
once they have caught the disease. Normal humans have no inherent resistance, 
and the disease runs its normal course unless magical healing is used on them. 
142 


qifes 
Buzzards may not learn the Rite ofthe Sun’s Bright Ray or any other rite that 
deals with Raven or Helios in particular. They do have a pair of mystical rites 
that are unique to their fallen nature. 
Basic Rites 
Rite of the Closed Eye: In a parody of the Corax’s ability to glean truth 
from the eyes of the dead, this rite enables those who perform it to wipe the 
memory from the eyes of a corpse. Any Corax who attempts to drink from an 
eye marked by this rite receives a potentially fatal shock. The rite takes 15 
minutes for one Buzzard to complete. Additional participants can speed up 
the process by five minutes per participant, although the rite takes a minimum 
of five minutes to complete. At the end of the rite, any useful memories 
disappear from the corpse’s eyes. In place of the memories, the rite substitutes 
a gut-wrenching vision of sheer horror. A Corm who drinks from the eye of 
a rite-tainted corpse receives the vision in all its visceral reality, and he must 
succeed in a Willpower Challenge or go temporarily mad with the vision, 
becoming unable to do anything except react to the horror for five minutes. 
Intermediate Rites 
Rite of the Lowered Sky: When performed properly, this rite makes 
tracking from above impossible, and it even restricts a Corax’s ability to fly. 
The “sky” is actually a bank of foul-smelling fog created by the rite. This mass 
of greenish fumes hangs in the air and obscures sight, fouls tracking by scent 
and mutes sound. This miasmic mess can hang over an entire city, alerting 
true Corax to the presence of Buzzards nearby. This rite takes an hour of game 
time to complete, and it requires that four Buzzards work together. Each must 
spend at least one Gnosis Trait to create the fog. Each additional Gnosis Trait 
expended allows the rite’s effects to persist for an hour after its normal 
duration would expire. Under its effects, anyone attempting a Mental 
Challenge that involves the senses (such as supernatural hearing or smell) 
suffers a two-Trait penalty. Those out in the miasma will endure the choking 
smell on their clothes and hair for at least two days. 
Story t d e  r Sect ion 
Buzzards make excellent foils for Storytellers in Changing Breeds 
chronicles. Many of the other shapeshifters find the talkative Corax down- 
right annoying, so they tend to ignore the ones that seem to hang around the 
fringes. These otherwise alert and suspicious characters may make the mistake 
of assuming that the scruffy-looking “birdbrain” lurking nearby is harmless. 
On the other hand, players may rely on Corax as messengers. Imaging their 
surprise when one of these messengers turns out to be taking their messages 
to the wrong people or returning with false replies. 
Who’s Got the Egg? - 
A spirit egg disappears from its hiding place. A 
“friendly” C o r a  offers to help the search party track down the kidnappers, 
claiming that she saw a group of nasty-looking individuals carrying an egg- 
143 


shaped object with them. If the searchers believe the “Corax,” they may end 
up as reluctant “guests” at a Buzzard’s baby shower. 
Oversight - 
A caern finds that someone has been leaking information 
of various sorts to the wrong people. All the usual suspects are accounted for. 
Only the unusual ones remain and it seems that the spy has aerial connections. 
Redemption - 
A group of Corax captures a Buzzard and attempts to 
return it to Helios and Raven. Can these Corax succeed, or is this a ploy to 
waste their time while their enemies converge? 
Hishtpah (Fallen Cats) 
Seductive darkness, keeper of mysteries - 
Cahlash, Father of Night, 
beckons to his children, the Bastet. As attractive as shadows and sunlight, 
those captured by his song are lost. Hisses, snarls and narrowed eyes are all a 
part of the Bastet term for Hishtpah, given to those cats corrupted by the 
Asura, known to the Garou as Banes. 
For these corrupted creatures, nothing matters but the secrets they hold 
and the misfortune and misery that they cause by spreading misinformation 
and passing on painful truths to any who listen. Sadly, the Bastet who are most 
renowned for cleverness are those seduced most frequently. For most Hishtpah, 
the path of corruption comes from an overwhelming need to know. Curiosity 
does not kill these cats - 
it seduces, as Cahlash whispers tempting offers of 
greater power, greater mysteries, thereby drawing Bastet into situations meant 
to taint their natures and destroy their minds. 
While many would look to the Bubasti as likely Hishrpah, there is no tribe 
that is particularly susceptible (or immune) to Cahlash‘s song. Father Night is all 
too aware of what will seduce each cat. For the Balaam, it might be hidden lore 
to drive the invaders from their homelands, while the Simba might be drawn to 
knowledge that would ensure the final destruction of the Ajaba. Even more 
horrible are those wise cats who walk into the darkness unaware and with the best 
of intentions, seeking lore to help in the fight against Cahlash or other enemies. 
Many Khan and Bagheera have been lost in such a manner. 
When a Bastet can no longer withstand the whispers, the delightful, 
horrific possibility of discovering something hidden that he will otherwise 
never know, other Hishtpah are drawn to the area. Forming into a frightening 
parody of a Garou pack, they circle their prey. Claws flashing, teeth bared in 
rictus grins, the Hishtpah attack, each wounding and licking their willing 
convert by turn. When they have finished, the fallen one has been encased 
in a shell of saliva and blood. Trapped within this chitinous mass, the newly 
formed Hishtpah listens intently as those who change her whisper the dark 
secrets of the Unmaker. Few escape remotely sane. 
Playing one of the Hishtpah is a challenge. Seeking the hidden, as all 
Bastet do, each must find a way to subvert and twist their secrets and then 
spread the information - 
insidiously -while 
still pretending to be the oh- 
so-mysterious and independent creature of Nala and Selene. Spotting the 
144 


Hishtpah can be difficult. Born in pain, befouled beneath their skin, they still 
continue to present an elegant and attractive appearance - 
although often 
going beyond the average in their attempts to stay scrupulously pristine, 
which they never truly feel again. 
Gifts 
Bastet may not learn the following Gifts: Auras’ Bane, Banish Cahlash’s 
Brood, Banish Sickness, Blinding Moonbeam Gaze, Chariot of Lions, Jump to the 
Moon, Redeem the Waste or Righteous Guze. In addition, Storytellers may wish 
to modify the effects of other Gifts to reflect the Hishtpah‘s new allegiances. 
The following Gift is unique to the Hishtpah. 
Intermediate Gift 
Sway of the Hypnotic Serpent This Gift provides the Hishtpah with 
a seductive grace and flowing movement that allows her to hypnotize her 
opponent and gain one secret without the other realizing that the information 
has been taken. Hishtpah often use this Gift in seduction, dance or in places 
where their movements will not be noticed. The Hishtpah must spend five 
minutes seducing her target and spend a Gnosis Trait. After making the 
seduction, she makes a Static Mental Challenge with her target. (Difficulty 
is the target’s Willpower; retest with Subterfuge. The difficulty may be reduced 
with appropriate Abilities.) With success, the character may ask for one 
“secret” (Nature, Primary Attribute category, one Flaw or one derangement), 
and the target must answer truthfully. Uponanswering, the target forgets both 
that he was asked a question and that he answered. 
Rites 
Although the Hishtpah still make use of the rites they learned before their 
corruption, they have modified these rites to reflect their warped natures. In 
addition, some of the rites differ in their effects. With each successive perfor- 
mance of the Rite of Nine Lives, the targeted Hishtpah returns looking more 
tattered andbearing evidence ofrot and decay about her person. Storytellers may 
wish to make other adjustments to Bastet rites for use with their Hishtpah 
characters or antagonists. The Hishtpah may not successfully perform the Rite of 
Exile. The following rite is unique to the Hishtpah, and it details the process of 
transforming a Bastet into one of the children of Cahlash. 
Intermediate Rite 
Rite of the Unmaker’s Song: For a Bastet to become a Hishtpah requires 
at least three other Hishtpah to perform the ritual. At least two of the Hishtpah 
involved in the ritual must wina Social Challenge. Performing it on an unwilling 
participant requires not only a Social Challenge, but also a Physical Challenge 
against the unwilling Bastet. If the rite is successful, the Hishtpah gains one 
Social Trait - 
generally Seductive, Beguiling or Magnetic - 
and he exudes an air 
of mystery that is nearly palpable to those around him. He also gains a 
derangement - 
see the derangements detailed in Laws of the Wild. 


Star y t elle r Section 
The following provide some ideas for using Hishtpah in a story or chronicle. 
The Bait - “Young Bubasti seeks same for secret exchange and 
possibly more.” A group of “Bastet” has come asking for assistance in 
discovering a hidden powerful talisman, and they are offering to share secrets 
in exchange for the characters’ help. 
Father’s Fall - 
What has become of the Mtolo of a pride of Simba? 
His children have noticed that their father has grown solitary and snappish. 
Then one caught him in a lie that caused great trouble in the pride. Now they 
(or other Bastet with reason to care) must follow him and discover where he goes 
and what he does each night at the moon’s setting or set the stage to challenge 
him to a battle to the death for leadership of the pride. Is there a way to save him? 
Conundrum - 
At a Qualmi riddling contest, one contestant poses 
riddles that no one can solve. This mysterious Bastet offers to share his 
answers if those to whom he divulges the secrets prove willing to help him 
perform a secret ritual. 
burgers (Fallen d e a r s )  
Purgers hear the world scream in pain. Their long sleep was haunted by 
it. Now it is time for a new beginning. Now is the time for the world to be 
purged of all so that it may be reborn from the ashes. 
The Gurahl went to sleep in order to escape the fury that threatened 
them during the War of Rage. Many went to this sleep already enraged at the 
foolishness of the Garou. Purgers allowed that rage to consume them as they 
slept. In their dreams they saw atrocity after atrocity, and they watched the 
Garou perpetrate, ignore or be ineffective against the rape of the land. The 
anger that was within them boiled slowly and deeply into their souls until it 
was all they could see, all they could remember. They woke ready to destroy 
the world in order to cleanse it, convinced that no living being is worthy of 
saving. If the world were destroyed, it could be born again from the ashes of 
the old one. They accept that they must kill everything in the world in order 
for it to be reborn to Gaia’s original intentions. 
The Purgers have abandoned their roles as healers and teachers. They work 
to bring about the End Days and to ensure that nothing escapes the cleansing fires 
of the Apocalypse. To achieve this end, they dedicate all their talents and energy 
to destructive arts. They use a rite of tainting to force other changers away from 
caems and other pure lands. They also work to taint food supplies, water and the 
air in order to purge the human population. They normally work alone, but they 
can work with others for a common goal. When not moving behind the scenes 
spreading their poisons, they delight in killing sprees. 
Systems 
Purgers have turned their backs on their totem, so the Gifts that they use 
are twisted. Wherever a Gurahl Gift would heal, theirs harms. Where a 
146 
k 
f 
7 


Gurahl Gift would cleanse, theirs taints. The same is true of their rites. They 
are the same rites as those they learned, but these rites are skewed to bring 
about corruption and death. 
Story t elk r Section 
In most cases, Purgers operate alone, and most likely in a rural setting 
where they might wreak devastation. They could work with a group for a 
common goal if they were working against a large sept or city. Some ideas for 
using Purgers in a chronicle include: 
Infiltration-A 
Purger pretends to be an ally to a local sept. The Garou 
may wonder what’s going on when birds and other small animals all around 
their caern begin dying. Has their caem already been poisoned past saving? 
No Parking - 
Garou feel taint spreading from a nearby national park. 
The Purger is working as a park ranger. When the Garou move in to stop the 
depredations, the Purger uses the opportunity to kidnap selected Garou for 
torture, tainting and eventual dismemberment. 
For the Children - 
A local day care center frequented by Kinfolk has 
an outbreak among workers and children of a foul disease that stumps all the 
doctors. Unless stopped, the Purger may succeed in killing off the new 
generation of potential Garou. 
C h e  a u m e n k a r a  (Fallen Reptiles) 
“Send to us a whisper of memories forgotten. Give us hope for history’s 
return.” As keepers of memory, each MokolC traces a thread of memories that 
leads to a time of prehistory. For the servants of the Dissolver, known to the Garou 
as the Wyrm, creating the Dumenkara - 
Bane-tainted MokolC - 
provides a 
method to corrupt and destroy these millennia-long weavings of history. 
As the MokolC pride themselves on being the only tribe dedicated to both 
Sun and Moon, the Dumenkara call to neither, denying their past, shunning 
traditions as lies and trickery. Each Dumenkara finds himself lost in adifferent 
fashion, although most are corrupted when they disavow the lessons that their 
memories attempt to teach them. From this beginning comes the opening of 
their hearts to Banes lying in wait to take control. Note that, like the Buzzards, 
Dumenkara may suffer the visible effects of their rejection of Helios. 
For the Dumenkara, the Dissolver has a special torment. The Bane 
within takes away the surety of their beliefs, their memories and twists all into 
darker reflections. A friend saved your life? No - 
he actually meant to kill 
you, and you had to claw your way back to safety on your own. Traditions state 
that blood-drinkers are not to be trusted? Why, when you clearly remember 
exchanging memories with one? For the Dumenkara, nothing is sacred. They 
live to distort and destroy beliefs and practices that have been handed down 
throughout history - 
for to them, history is a lie. Their greatest achievements 
are to come together long enough to wipe out a local clutch - 
destroying 
group memories formed over countless millennia. Often the Dumenkara seek 
147 
I 
r 
k 
i 


out Mokole eggs and offspring- which make fine tender meals or may be used 
in mock “rituals” devised on a whim. 
Playing a Dumenkara - especially one surrounded by other, more 
tradition-bound werecreatures -can be difficult and dangerous, but it’s a lot 
of fun. Slithering up to a pack of Garou in the midst of a special rite and ruining 
their solemn occasion -blaming 
it on the local clutch, or burning the local 
public library to the ground - 
all in a day’s play. 
When a Mokol6 becomes Bane-tainted, he gains one Negative Mental 
Trait as his memories become diffused and twisted, and he loses the respect 
for the traditions that hold his people together. More tragic than a 
Pranastajjanika (a Mokol6 that has lost his memory through other means), 
the Dumenkara cannot regain his memories because they are not lost to him 
- 
only corrupted. Flaws such as Confused and Absent-Minded and the 
Negative Trait Untrustworthy are particularly appropriate. Conversely, the 
Dumenkara gains one Physical Trait, since he no longer spends time analyzing 
his experiences or traditions before taking action, usually whatever impulse 
(or the Bane) insists he do. A Mokol6 with Mnesis is in even worse trouble - 
Mnesis merely ensures that the Mokole’s corrupted memories stretch even 
farther, and may even spread her corruption through inwitting or other 
sharing of memory. 
Certain rites are more appropriate to the Dumenkara: Last Communion, 
The Bones of Time and Burn the Library all provide methods for stealing or 
destroying the memories of others. Particularly talented Dumenkara enter the 
memory realms of the Umbra in order to destroy and distort others’ memories. 
They change history either on a whim or to match the distortions within their 
own minds. 
Storyteller Section 
Dumenkara are powerful creatures (a Bane-tainted Archid should give 
most characters nightmares for weeks), and they should be used sparingly in 
a chronicle. Mature players should work along with the Storytellers to be 
certain that chronicles are not damaged beyond repair and players made 
personally angry by choices the Dumenkara’s player makes. 
One of These Things is Not Like the Others - 
A clutch of Mokole and/ 
or others, begins to feel as though their memories are becoming confused 
about a certain murder that they are investigating. Each of them remembers 
something very different from the others. Good thing the wise old dragon 
down the road is willing to come help them sort the situation out. 
Memories of Shadow - 
Several Umbral travelers decide to help their 
Mokolk friend with his Mnesis Quest - 
a dangerous thing on its own - 
but 
why is he acting so oddly? 
Don’t Count Your Eggs -A 
very fertile mating has given the clutch a 
pair of Unktehi eggs. Now the eggs are missing, and the mother is frantic. No 
one but members of the clutch had access to her eggs. Hey! Where did that 
one clutch member say she was going yesterday? 
148 


6itter-Grins (Fallen Coyotes) 
Some changing creatures would argue that the Nuwisha don’t need to fall 
to corruption to be worthy of death. Their pranks and attitude are enough to 
condemn them. Others wonder if the coyotes can fall to the Wyrm’s blandish- 
ments. Sadly, the answer is yes. 
Nuwisha freely admit to a curiosity that seems boundless. According to 
their legends, the Wyrm has hated Coyote from the earliest of times. Some 
say it was because Coyote laughed at Wyrm’s original predicament, while 
others believe that it’s because the Trickster pokes his nose where even the 
Wyrm rarely crawls. Regardless, Wyrm lays traps for Coyote’s unwary 
children, and some few do fall into them. The followers of Ti Malice are 
most susceptible, since they deal with the machinations of the Wyrm daily, 
but any who forget Coyote’s lessons or become disheartened or disillusioned 
can be led astray. 
Nuwisha who fall to the Wyrm are known to their brethren as Bitter- 
Grins. They display a wide variety of personalities, but most exhibit a 
twisted sense of humor, from the cynical bitter wit to the sadistic jester 
whose pranks prove fatal. The particular face of Coyote that the Nuwisha 
followed most closely before she fell gives some indication of her current 
personality quirks. For instance, a fallen follower of Xochipilli might decide 
that beating the odds oneself pales in comparison to the joy found in putting 
others into situations where the odds of survival are impossibly long, then 
making bets on the outcome. 
Fallen Nuwisha abandon their role as teachers and watchers. They sow 
chaos and destruction in either bitter rage or with insane delight. While a 
follower of Ti Malice might slip into a factory, cross-wire the electrical system 
and watch gleefully while a machine explodes and kills several workers, a 
fallen Nuwisha would wait until the factory was filled to capacity, lock all the 
exits and start a fire designed to gut the entire building. Fallen ones have 
decided that the world is not worth saving, humans are not worth teaching, 
and the other changers are chumps for fighting the inevitable. They either 
want revenge or they want to have as much ironic and deadly fun as possible 
at the world’s expense. 
Pride is normally the trap that ensnares the Garou. It works on 
Nuwisha as well. More often, though, their curiosity leads them into 
corruption. Those brought down by pride become embittered that their 
teachings go unheeded as their lessons cause anger in those that they 
hoped to enlighten. Those Nuwisha who succumb to curiosity tumble into 
the same darkness as the Hishtpah. Unlike the cats, however, Nuwisha 
undergo no special rituals, nor (most disturbingly) are Bitter-Grins easy to 
spot. Most other changers feel that the Nuwisha are on the verge anyway 
due to their incessant tomfoolery, and they pay little heed to the change 
in severity of such actions. 
149 


Storyteller Section 
Storytellers can use the following to introduce Bitter-Grins into a 
story or chronicle. While Nuwisha are usually solitary, Bitter-Grins may 
have learned the usefulness of allies like themselves. Then again, can they 
really trust one another not to indulge in deadly one-upsmanship in the 
name of humor? 
Cuckoo’s Nest - 
Other changers are waiting for the arrival of a 
Nuwisha who is renowned for his wit and wisdom. The Nuwisha arrives and 
ironic, twisted events occur that injure some of the participants or cause them 
to withdraw from the group in anger or distrust. 
The Search - A sept loses some of its assets when young Garou 
disappear during missions. The Bitter-Grin, who claims to have been watch- 
ing the caern for some time offers to help locate the missing pups. More may 
disappear if his offer is accepted.. . . 
The Enemy of My Enemy is Still My Enemy - 
Enemies of other 
changers seem to know all about them, including defenses and other secret 
information. The Bitter-Grin spy who clued the foes in smiles and prepares 
to call in yet a third interested party. 
Banes seeking a home within the webbed mind of an Ananasi may find 
themselves surprised by the comfortable fit. Come into my parlor, indeed.. . . 
The Ananasi are the most accepting werefolk of the necessity and 
symmetry created by the existence of the Wyrm. Having three aspects, one 
each dedicated to the Weaver, Wyld and Wyrm, they do not hate the Wyrm. 
In fact the Hatar, their warrior aspect, is dedicated to furthering the original 
purpose of the Wyrm - 
controlled destruction so that the pattern of the 
universe may be improved. Very few Ananasi ever fall prey to a Bane’s control, 
but somehow, those that do still consistently follow inverted versions of their 
original patterning in the Great Web. 
First are the Kumoti, those dedicated to the Wyld. When broken by the 
corruption of a Bane, these Ananasi lose much of their logic and emotional 
steadiness, becoming increasingly chaotic. As their Bane takes control, these 
spiders build webs of chaos-destroying patterns around them as they gradually 
go insane. Most who are discovered are hunted down and destroyed, although 
the Ananasi have often watched patiently to see the patterns that form during 
their fall into madness. 
Secondly the Tenere, those of the Weaver aspect. These creatures 
become painfully obsessed by the encroaching taint of the Wyrm, fighting 
their undeniable spiral into corruption by creating more and more elaborate 
weavings. Often lauded at first for their industry and artistic enthusiasm, 
their impossible striving for excess soon gives observant untainted sisters a 
sign of their corruption. 


Lastly, the Hatar, those dedicated to serve the Wyrm. As was stated 
previously, few Hatar have ever been corrupted by Banes.. . or have they? 
Those few are rarely detected. As warriors for the Wyrm, the fact that the 
Ananasi have become a bit more violent, a touch more emotionally 
unstable, does not often lead to an investigation. These Bane-infested 
creatures watch and work as spies within a spy stronghold. As double- 
agents among the spiders and friends to Pentex and Black Spirals, they 
watch and wait. 
Bane-tainted Ananasi have become more than watchers. They work to 
break and change the patterns around them, while continuing to weave 
their hidden corruption. Although they (at least those of the Wyld and 
Weaver) will eventually fall into a madness that leads to their detection, 
they may still find ways to distort the workings of the Great Web around 
them for a while. 
Playing a Breaker requires subtlety. If such a character is part of a 
chronicle, her downward spiral into madness should come as a gradual 
change. An odd mannerism here, a raised voice there, and eventually 
companions will discover the horror within their midst. 
6uilbing the puttern 
When an Ananasi becomes a Breaker, she gains one Social Trait to 
represent her increased emotionality, while losing one Mental Trait, a sign 
of her beginning downward spiral into madness. Many also gain the 
derangement Obsession and the Flaw: Compulsion. Otherwise, the Ananasi 
does not change. 
Storyteller Section 
The following ideas may help Storytellers insert fallen Ananasi in 
their chronicles. 
Help me ... help meeeee - 
One of the local Garou tribes has spoken 
of a spider cult, which has formed in the dark hills near their sept. 
Realizing that the Garou will quite probably go in and destroy whatever 
they find, a group of Ananasi goes to investigate while the werewolves 
discuss what to do. 
Threads of Nothing - 
One of the Plicare, a wise woman of the area, 
has begun a new project. Now bodies are being discovered, human bodies, 
drained of blood and left where the local police can get nervous. A group 
of characters are drafted to go visit the wise woman and see just what she 
has invented. 
Shadow of the Great Web - 
The Ananasi have discovered several 
strange patterns in the Great Web nearby. Within the pattern lie strands 
connected to all the different Changing Breeds as well as a shadow of Bane- 
taint. A group of characters must go into the Umbra to explore the patterns 
and figure out what is causing this change before it is too late. 
151 


Vermin (Fallen R a t s )  
Most other changers already consider the Ratkin corrupt. Their role in 
the world is to restore the balance by whatever means necessary, and their use 
of plague as a tool revolts most other shapeshifters. 
Vermin, the fallen Ratkin, no longer care even about the survival of 
other Ratkin. They want to kill and kill again, as often as possible. They 
don’t even care if they destroy themselves as long as they take a good body 
count with them. Banes infesting Vermin find hosts eager to take up the 
cause of murder and mayhem, probably less for the Wyrm’s sake and far more 
for the pleasure of killing. 
Verminhearthevoicesoftheratspiritsandseememoriesofthe WarofRage 
over and over. They seek vengeance - 
particularly against the Garou - 
by 
spreading sickness and disease wherever they go. These diseases even affect other 
changers, in fact, some seem made to affect changers in particular. 
Ratkin who survive the Birthing Plague alone and those who are later 
consumed by Rage are the ones most susceptible to becoming Vermin. When 
birthed alone, Ratkin may become subject to the whispers of Banes who speak 
of nothing but the Garou’s betrayal or pain and death. Those Ratkin who find 
disillusionment and become ever more angry make themselves targets for the 
same attacks. The whispers never cease, and the Ratkin’s mind eventually 
snaps, sending her into an inescapable insanity. 
152 


- - / / / 1 - 4 i  
Story teller Sect ion 
Here are a few suggestions for Storytellers who want to introduce Vermin 
into a chronicle: 
Water Rats -A pack of Vermin has infested a city water supply station. 
To stop the spreading plague, characters must locate the source and deal with 
the Vermin, making themselves targets of the very plague they seek to stop. 
Germ Warfare - 
The Garou notice that sickness is afflicting their 
Kinfolk, although humans all around them remain unaffected. A Vermin has 
moved into the area, and he is using this as an opening salvo in a planned war 
against the Garou. 
Plague Dogs - 
Stray dogs are running rabid through the streets, having 
been infected by a group of Vermin. There seem to be many more strays than 
usual, however, for the Vermin have raided a nearby lab that does animal 
testingand loosed test subjects that are crawling withanew designer virus that 
was designed by Pentex. Here, boy! 
153 


E 
@Ct/CLX: A Growing 
Corporate Family 
Sprawling corporations and vast holding companies stretch across the 
World of Darkness. Alienated and numbered, faceless wage-slaves labor in 
the cramped cubicles and unsafe factories of North and South American car 
plants, Russian and Eastern European arms and ammunition plants, Mexican 
Maquiladora hardware assembly lines south of the Rio Grande, and shoe and 
linen sweat-shops of Indonesia and Southeast Asia. The Wyrm finds fertile 
breeding grounds in the midst of this despair and mechanically mind- 
numbing wasteland. Unholy vampires, technocratic willworkers and Garou 
from the Glass Walkers and other tribes dominate or influence many of these 
corporate concerns. In only one corporation, though, do the heads of the 
Wyrm take direct action: Pentex. 
Corporate Fee1 ana Setting 
First and foremost, Pentex is a corporation. Narrating the corporate 
environment takes more than just throwing a dark blue suit on a Narrator 
character and giving her a briefcase full of industrial espionage gear. Both 
legally and practically, corporations are individual personalities, and each has 
its own feel. Even still, though, companies show certain similarities. Only a 
fraction of Pentex's top executives know the truth about its purpose, and 
many employees merely further its corporate evils as if it were any other family 
of companies. 


The Average &mployee 
Most Pentex employees are ignorant of the Wyrm. They are more likely 
to be mildly Wyrm-tainted from eating at the company cafeteria than from 
promulgating the Wyrm’s nastiness directly. Most live otherwise upstanding 
lives, and they may even be inclined to do the right thing when the occasion 
presents itself. In the head offices, only 10% or so of the corporate staff might 
actually know about the Wyrm, and these staff members are usually top 
executives. The rest are little different from employees found at any good- 
sized company. 
In the subsidiaries, even fewer employees know what the real deal is, even 
though they may actually be closer to the source. Most are just trying to get 
by. Of course, there are Black Spiral Dancers, Dancer Kinfolk, and fomori 
ranging from Toads to Enticers to Ferectoi working for Pentex - 
they just 
aren’t the “usual” employees. 
The Corporate Look 
A living body’s immune system protects itself from foreign intrusion by 
recognizing and attacking anything that is different. Corporations are the 
same. From factory worker to secretary to executive, each company stratum 
has its own look and corporate appearance. If a character who is attempting 
to impersonate a Pentex executive shows up at a board meeting for Endron Oil 
looking like lower management in her Oxford shirt and khakis despite the fact 
that all of the executives are wearing tailored suits, she will stick out as surely 
as an overweight middle-aged beat cop at an all-night rave. The same holds 
true for the Kinfolk wearing an Armani suit who tries pass himself off as a 
lower-level King Breweries official. (What middle management guy can 
afford Armani?) In each case, corporate employees react by limiting contact 
with the intruder and attempting to isolate and expel him. An arriving First 
Team might be the first sign that an infiltrating character’s shoes weren’t 
pricey enough for the office. 
Conform, Conform, Conform 
Companies couldn’t rely on appearance and behavior to identify outside 
threats if employees didn’t share a common corporate look and way of acting. 
Fortunately or unfortunately, most employees do conform to a common mold. 
They rarely do so overtly or quickly, except through corporate mission state- 
ments and generic dress codes, which are often vague and misleading. Instead, 
companies rely on small hints, comments during annual appraisals and slightly 
derogatory comments made in passing about anything too outr~?. In the unstable 
economies and uncertain job markets of the World of Darkness, many wage- 
slaves and loyal sarariman are quick to catch on and conform. Unusual clothes, 
hobbies, pastimes, religious views and political leanings are quickly put under 
wraps or sacrificed to the great god of Job Security. 
156 


Executives higher up in the Wyrm-influenced hierarchy might have 
- 
.
-
 
some more leeway- in all of the wrong ways. Superiors and fellow executives 
might even encourage those vices that give them good blackmail material, 
such as illegal substance abuse of “socially acceptable” drugs, or an illicit affair 
between a married executive and his secretary. Given the alienation that 
pervades the World of Darkness, the secretary is rarely more than an 
encouraged amateur, although fomori Enticers have been occasionally planted 
as “highly qualified personal assistants” for suspected infiltrating Garou. 
T h e  Corporate Attitube 
Factory workers and secretaries often find their jobs boring and apathy- 
rs. Successful coprate 
e and ambition. Because 
over their fellow 
inducing, but such often isn’t 
executivessublimate their desir 
workers fearful that they will lose their position in the next restructuring, a 
Pentex manager can keep his subordinates from rocking the boat. As long as 
157 


workers fear for their next paycheck, they usually won’t have time to worry 
about the company’s big picture. The same applies to annual appraisals, bonus 
programs and sales-commission schemes. Pentex managers usually reward 
conformity and discourage anything out of the ordinary from the rank-and- 
file. When even the janitorial staff is expected to be “normal,” it is easier to 
spot intruders, such as the occasional corporate espionage agent or 
monke ywrencher. 
T h e  Whole is More than the Sum of the @arts 
A company’s interests always reflect the survival and growth of the company, 
often at the expense of the individual, whether that individual is a janitor or 
Chairman of the Board of Directors. It is even more true in Pentex, where the 
agents of the Wyrm can always recruit and corrupt another corporate suit. 
For example, as soon as a company’s chief executive officer develops an 
altruistic pattern of spending corporate funds, or sometimes even his own 
funds, his subordinates and his stockholders and the Board of Directors will 
begin looking for the return-on-investment of his actions. If he can show in 
his next quarterly report that his philanthropy generates revenue through 
public goodwill and lenient treatment from local government officials, he 
might be forgiven a little humane excess until the next cash-flow or budget 
crunch, when his philanthropy can be gently curtailed. If he cannot show that 
his actions generate more revenue and profit, then he will find himself either 
“corrected)) or replaced by someone who does a much better job of listening 
to her corporate masters. 
Pentex companies are much more likely to encourage unsavory execu- 
tive hobbies such as mild drug use, illegal pornography or sexual excesses that 
can be used to blackmail straying executives. This may give monkeywrenching 
characters a way of influencing a Pentex executive ... or may become the 
downfall of a Glass Walker trying to infiltrate a Pentex subsidiary such as the 
pharmaceutical giant Magadon. No employee is irreplaceable, and this is even 
more true in Pentex. And sometimes the replacement even looks like the 
original, but with a more corporate-friendly attitude. 
&xception to the @de: Corporate Giveaways 
Pentex does sometimes dance the public-relations waltz with token philan- 
thropic deeds when it has to do so: It just limits such expenditures, and taints 
these goodwill gestures when it can. And sometimes what looks like a goodwill 
gesture is a move to comer a market and gamer a monopoly. There are times 
when a company will seem to give away a product. Usually, these ‘Potlatch‘ 
giveaways serve to undermine a competitor or gain an early comer on a budding 
new market. Think of the Internet browser wars of the 1990s. Consider also the 
recent moves by Phillip Morris to show how it engages in philanthropy - 
halting 
a beer plant’s production to bottle drinking water for a flooded town, sending 
supplies to refugee camps in Bosnia. Most Pentex firms understand this strategy, 
and they do the same - 
often with Bane-infected goodies. It’s hard for a sept to 
158 


try to shut down a project that’s giving out free food for the homeless that just 
happens to be spreading Wyrm-tainted boxed lunches. 
Mission Statements an8 Ooerall Goal 
A publicly owned company’s mission statement reflects what its stock- 
holders want, and not necessarily the goals of its top management. In like 
manner, Pentex’s goals of spreading the Wyrm’s despair, corruption and 
destruction isn’t published as part of its Annual Report to Stockholders. 
Instead Pentex pursues its goals in secret. Crime, absenteeism and depression 
might arise around a Pentex-owned factory or landfill.. . but rarely because of 
effects linked directly to Pentex. And while Endron International might be 
spreading Pentex’s influence into the NASCAR circuit, it won’t resort to 
outright sabotage and intimidation; that’s what Bane-tainted gasoline and 
lubricants are for. Pentex is pervasive, persistent and patient. As it spreads, 
the company is slowly choking the world in its destructive stasis just like the 
heads of its Master, the Wyrm, are slowly choking Gaia. Among the division 
and subdivision directors, this is part of the unwritten “Omega Plan,” a three- 
step plan to dominate the world by surreptitiously destroying it, then solving 
its problems, and then ruling it. And who will stop them? 
doenfex Jargon 
Partly from Kathryn Mollett’s influence, Pentex is up to its ears in manage- 
ment jargon and acronyms. It’s part of the whole employee dehumanizing process. 
AQD: Acquisitions Division, one of the four main divisions of Pentex 
under the EXD. 
ARD: Areas of rapid development; refers to growth in overseas subsidiaries. 
DD: Division Director; refers to heads of the AQD, OPD PCD and SPD. 
EXD: Executive Director; oversees the four main divisions of Pentex; 
FIN: Finance; a subdivision under the PCD. 
HRD: Human Resource Development; a subdivision under the OPD. 
ICs: Information Collection Systems; a subdivision under the AQD. 
IL: Project Iliad; a subdivision under the SPD. 
OD: Project Odyssey; a subdivision under the SPD. 
OPD: Operations Division, one of the four main divisions of Pentex under EXD. 
QCE: Quality Compliance Experts, the watchdogs of the AQD. 
PCD: Project Coordination Division, one of the four main divisions of 
Pentex under the EXD. 
PENTEX 2 100: Acronym for Partnership, Energy, Novelty, Technol- 
ogy, Enthusiasm and Excellence; a group of meaningless employee-managed 
projects designed to eliminate free time. 
controls a highly secret spy and assassin cadre called Team Prime (PRI). 
PR: Public Relations; a subdivision under the PCD. 
PRI: Team Prime, the top-secret spy and assassin cadre controlled by the EXD. 
159 


RD: Regional Directors; administrators of Pentex subsidiaries around 
the world under the OPD. 
SAP: Strategic Actions Plan; a list of goals, objectives and actions for 
corporate policy. 
SDD: Subdivision Directors; refers to the heads of PR, FIN, ICs, HRD, 
IL and OD, all of which operate under the four main divisions of Pentex 
(AQD, OPD, PCD and SPD). 
SPD: Special Projects Division; one of the four main divisions of Pentex 
under the EXD. 
TQM: Total Quality Management; Pentex uses TQM to build a facade 
of employee empowerment and influence. 
@entex Itself: ~ e a ~ u a r t e r s  
Spread around North America and the rest of the world, “Pentex” is used 
by its employees to refer both to the head holding companies of the multina- 
tional conglomerate and the total conglomerate of its subsidiary corporations. 
This may be confusing.. . and it’s supposed to be. Even so, outsiders are more 
likely to know the names of Pentex subsidiaries like Circinus, Endron Oil, 
Herrick’s grocery stores or O’Tolley’s fast food restaurants than the name 
Pentex itself, which suits the Wyrm just fine. Looking like any other 21st- 
century corporation, Pentex offices are found in most major metroplexes, 
handling basic tax and employee information, and little else. 
Pentex History anb Hierarchies 
Founded as Premium Oil by the ruthless oil tycoon, Jeremiah Lassater, 
the ancestral company fell under the sway of the Wyrm when Lassater 
stumbled across a powerful Bane entrapped by Uktena Bane-tenders and freed 
by drilling done by Lassater’s company. Bargaining for his life, Lassater 
allowed the Bane to influence Premium. After Lassater later committed 
suicide and his son died, the now powerful oil company came under the 
leadership of a dedicated businessman, Colin Jenner, in 1913. Restructuring 
Premiumunder a five-person Board of Directors, the company became Pentex 
in 1915. Jennerdiedinafierycarcrashin 1917, andhewasreplacedbyfellow 
board member Fulton Clark, a Black Spiral Dancer Kinfolk who was later 
approached by and fell under the sway of his unhealthy Garou relatives. In 
1947 Clark made another deal with a different devil - 
Harold Zettler, a fifth- 
generation Malkavian antihibu. Clark then died in an oil rig fire and was 
replaced by the current chairman, Peter Culliford. Culliford restructured the 
Board in 1994 into autonomous divisions and sub-divisions after Garou 
monkeywrenchers killed several board members. Although he has only been 
Chairman and then Executive Director of Pentex for a little more than half 
a century, Culliford is actually much older. Born in the time of Shakespeare 
and Queen Elizabeth, he is over 400 years old. 
160 


The Executive Director’s office oversees Pentex’s four divisions: Project 
Coordination Division (PCD), Acquisitions (AQD), Operations (OPD) and 
Special Projects (SPD). Despite the 1994 reorganization, the division direc- 
tors and sub-directors still refer to themselves as the Board of Directors, and 
they meet monthly. Most of the divisions cooperate extensively. For example, 
Acquisition’s Information Collection Systems (ICs) works extensively with 
all other divisions, as does the Finance division. 
As Executive Director, Peter Culliford rarely exercises his veto powers 
over proposed policy. Instead, he uses Machiavellian manipulations to 
control and direct his subordinates. He also has a secret ace up his sleeve: 
Team Prime, also known as PRI. Secretly recruited after staged “deaths” from 
other Pentex operations such as Project Iliad, Project Odyssey or Pentex First 
Teams, Team Prime’s dozen or so agents combine the best (or worst) of 
commando, psychic, techno-geek and spy. Willing to do literally anything for 
the EXD office, PRI members are fanatically loyal to each other and the EXD. 
broject Coorbination mivision t b C 0 )  
The largest Pentex division, PCD coordinates Pentex’s world-wide 
destructive operations, from Wall Street to Tokyo ghettoes to rain forests 
around the globe. Through both Finance and its Quality Control Experts 
(QCE), PCD pervades all Pentex operations. 
PCD has two major subdivisions: Public Relations (PR) and Finance (FIN). 
Under James Kiker, an aging South African businessman, PR attempts to limit public 
awareness of Pentex activities. Under Franklin Rubin, who replaced the late Enzo 
Giovanni, Finance sponsors Pentex activities. Pentex has operated profitably since 
the late 1800s, so there is usually noshortage ofcapital fundingfor promisingprojects. 
Acquisitions Division (AQm) 
AQD oversees Pentex’s many subsidiaries and coordinates their activi- 
ties. Blackmail, extortion, assassination and terrorism are considered legitimate 
business practices by AQD, which gives new meaning to the term “hostile 
takeover.” Controlling Pentex’s infamous First Teams, AQD also coordinates 
activities with the Sabbat and the Black Spiral Dancers. AQDs Information 
Collection Systems (ICs) helps to coordinate this effort, using everything 
from computers to psychics and fomori on loan from Projects Iliad and 
Odyssey. At the heart of ICS’operations is agiant main-frame that has a living 
Umbral presence of giant glowing networking that stretches like a spider web 
over more than a city block, with bound and corrupted Pattern Spiders 
collating and correlating data. Tended and guarded by Black Spiral Dancer 
Theurges, this web is a well-protected yet still vulnerable spot for ICs. 
Operations mivision ( O b m )  
Operations oversees the day-to-day operations of Pentex, from mail to 
purchasing. Putting efficiency and precision above everything, including 
161 


safety, OPD keeps the company running, reflecting the cold and impersonal 
style of Division Director Adrian Newberry. OPDs Human Resources (HR) 
oversees hiring, firing and employee orientation and indoctrination. Under 
Kathryn Mollett, HR excels in creating the illusion of empowerment while 
crushing the spirit. 
Special @rejects Oioision tS@O) 
SPD handles the esoteric Pentex research activities: biotechnology, 
animal and psychological experimentation, creating fomori, testing and using 
psychic phenomenon and promoting Wyrm taints and Bane manifestations. 
Needless to say, Pentex’s already tight security is tightest among this division, 
whose director is a Malkavianuntitribu Methuselah known as Harold Zettler. 
Under the guidance of its subdivision director Francesco, a lupus Black Spiral 
Dancer Philodox, SPDs Project Iliad (IL) creates and trains fomori, housing 
them in quasi-military barracks. While only one out of eight or so of Project 
Iliad’s fomori can pass as human, these fomori make ideal candidates for First 
Teams. Project Odyssey (OD), on the other hand, focuses on psychic powers 
such as telepathy and telekinesis, carefully guided by Japanese business tycoon 
Kiro Yamazaki. OD personnel will gladly kidnap or blackmail potential 
recruits who do not volunteer freely. A small offshoot, Project Aeneid, 
combines OD and IL’s efforts by binding a Mind-Feeder Bane into a psychic 
host. Doing so enhances the host’s powers, but the resulting psychic fomori 
develops an addiction to human brains. Although it is the smallest of Pentex’s 
divisions, SPD commands enormous resources. It is also the strangest place in 
which to work, though its employees know enough to keep quiet. 
@enfex Corporafions 
Pentex spreads its taint around the world. Pentex is strongest in North 
America, with over 70 Pentex offices and hundreds of offices of its subsidiaries 
in the United States and Canada. With headquarters in Seattle and New York 
and major field offices in Atlanta, Charlotte, Chicago, Miami, New Orleans, 
Los Angeles and Salt Lake City, Pentex has entrenched itself well. Pentex 
also sports offices in Central and South America, where the corporate family 
works on destroying the rainforests (though some Garou actions have 
recently increased the costs of planned deforestation). Pentex is slowly 
spreading into Europe as well, with an eye on Eastern Europe, but finds itself 
stymied in Africa. The Asian market represents one of Pentex’s latest 
successful tentative expansions, though recent economic downturns have 
hurt some subsidiaries. 
Likely tncounters 
Pentex has many resources and connections among the denizens of the 
World of Darkness. It could hardly be otherwise, with Zettler’s connection to 
the Sabbat and Francesco’s ties to other Black Spiral Dancers. These re- 
sources, both internal and external, help make up some of the more unusual 
162 


agents of Pentex that players’ characters might encounter, from fomori to 
well-trained Pentex First Teams. 
8enfex Agtnfs an3 Came @dance 
Storytellers and Narrators need to balance the strength of Pentex agents 
against those of their players. A large group of players with elders and legends 
of will make short work of foes with only five or six Traits, and they get no 
satisfaction from the easy victory. On the other hand, a First Team with 
combat shotguns might make short work of beginning characters who are 
created straight out of Laws of the Wild, and players will become very 
frustrated if every security guard has more Physical Traits than an Elder 
Ahroun Get of Fenris in Crinos form. 
A creative Storyteller will find many ways to balance the threat of Pentex 
characters. For example, you may want to balance out Attributes by giving 
First Team members a Magadon-developed drug that increases an Attribute 
temporarily and is horribly addictive as well. Perhaps they have access to 
talens and special weapons. On the other hand, perhaps a small, weak force 
can sneak into a Magadon pharmaceutical plant or Endron refinery more 
easily than a whole sept can. 
Unusual tmplo yees 
Most Pentex employees are normal, average citizens of the World of 
Darkness. In Mind’s Eye Theatre terms, they might have low or average 
Traits, no unusual Abilities and no unusual equipment (maybe a clipboard or 
whatever equipment is necessary for the job). Unusual employees will have 
more, of course, depending upon who they are and what they are doing. Laws 
of the Hunt describes some of the powers that might be available to special 
agents, such as the psychics of Projects Odyssey and Aeneid, while the 
Arsenal found in the Appendix describes some of the weaponry and other 
nasty surprises that might be issued. 
Use these unusual folks sparingly. It’s unlikely that a Circinus factory will 
have a dozen guards packing large guns and chemical warfare agents, but the 
leading office for Endron in the northwest might have a half-dozen on staff. 
A Project Odyssey psychic wouldn’t be on the staff at a Magadon-run women’s 
clinic without a very interesting reason. The use of strange or unusual 
employees should be part of the bait for a story of much greater proportions 
than simply “another day at the office.” 
girsf Ceams 
First Teams are highly trained and extensively equipped squads of six to 
seven mercenaries, fomori, psychics, Black Spiral Dancers and neonate 
vampires. Cross-trained in combat, espionage, demolitions and other esoteric 
specialties, these squads run special missions from “recovering” straying 
scientists to desecrating Garou caems. Most First Teams have a human leader 
who has been made immune to the Delirium, a Black Spiral Dancer, three or 
’ 
163 


four combat-trained fomori and a Project Odyssey psychic or neonate Sabbat 
vampire if available. Pentex equips them with knives, light and heavy pistols, 
silver ammunition, encrypted radios and any other equipment or weapons 
suited for the job. 
Mechanically speaking, a First Team leader should be at least a match for 
the average character. Psychics should be well stocked in their power’s 
Attribute, while fomori might be anything from ax-wielding thugs to masters 
of a particularly gruesome talent. Addictive and rarely issued Magadon 
pharmaceuticals might raise human and psychic Traits by another three or 
four Traits for one scene. Fomori might gain up to six Traits from the horribly 
addictive Fomorol, a drug made from the bodies of recycled “fomorach 
fomori, and they might have Traits far beyond the norm. 
OJs y c h i cs 
The psychic teams of Pentex’s Project Odyssey do not always work as First 
Team members. Sometimes they serve as troubleshooters or investigators for 
Division and Subdivision Directors. Psychopathic employees who could 
easily fool a lie-detector machine find it much harder to fool a mind-reader 
or psychometrician, and management likes it that way. 
See Laws of the Hunt for rules for psychics. 
Sabbat 
Pentex will gladly use any Sabbat packs that Harold Zettler’s Special 
Projects Division can hire. Unfortunately, though, most Sabbat packs look 
down on Pentex liaisons as mortal “juice bags” and cooperate sporadically at 
best. Zettler can do little to counter this attitude directly, lest the younger 
Sabbat turn on him. On the other hand, a few nomad packs make it a habit 
of working with Pentex regional offices in return for quick havens, plentiful 
blood and the occasional sport with “expendable” employees. 
dDenfex anb Progenitors 
Both the Special Projects division of Pentex and the Progenitors of the 
Technocracy often use the life sciences to do their dirty work. There is a 
difference, though. Let’s say that Pentex decided to plant an agent provoca- 
teur who was a clone of someone else, just like Progenitor mages might do. 
With the help of Banes and corrupted Pattern Spiders, cloning isn’t that hard 
to do, but Pentex cannot do it as “cleanly” as the Technocrats can. While a 
Progenitor clone may have to worry about slowly accruing Paradox, she is not 
as likely to face constant problems of cancer, hormonal imbalances, severe 
spiritual corruption and outright Wyrm taint. 
An SPD clone created by Pentex, on the other hand, has to worry about 
all of these, thanks to the deleterious effects of the Wyrm’s emanations. And, 
of course, the Progenitors would attempt to destroy any SPD clone as a “reality 
deviant” if they became aware of one (just as Pentex would attempt to buy and 
corrupt Progenitor sites if it knew of them). 
164 


alack Spiral Oancers ana Kinfolk 
Because of their connection and supposed dedication to the Wyrm, quite 
a few Black Spiral Dancer Kinfolk work for Pentex in Special Projects and 
places that require special clearance. Kinfolk often have a mild edge on 
ordinary people, since they don't succumb to the cancers and madness of 
fomori, and they do not fall into Rage-driven frenzies like their Garou cousins 
do. On the other hand, Black Spiral Kinfolk often have strange and gruesome 
hobbies that lend themselves to blackmail. 
Thanks to Rage and madness, few Black Spiral Dancers work directly for 
Pentex, although permanent employees do exist. Indeed, a camp within the 
tribe is dedicated to serving Pentex, and executives such as Francesco have 
shown just how corporate these mad wolves can be. 
Qomori 
Fomori have long been spawn of the Wyrm, but Pentex has taken things 
further. With Project Iliad, Pentex has gone so far as to intentionally and 
scientifically breed fomori. Perhaps it is because of these controls, but Project Iliad's 
fomori are often better able topass as normal in society or serve as Pentex employees. 
Top management has more than one Ferectoi, while Toads and Enticers often 
appear in middle management and other administrative roles. First Teams, of 
course, also use many fomori. (Some would say that First Teams use them up.) 
Kop 21 6Jentex Subsibiaries 
As a truly multinational megacorporation, Pentex has hundreds of 
subsidiaries under various pseudonyms of different directors. For example, 
Harold Zettler holds controlling interest in Autumn Health Management 
Systems under the alias Zeldt Erohlar, a Swedish banker. The following are 
the star players in the Pentex lineup. These are the most profitable of the 
subsidiaries, selling cheap, shoddy goods that the consumers want most. Most 
of these corporations work together for mutual gain. For example, Young and 
Smith sells its Wyrm-tainted products at minimum cost to Herrick's retail 
chain. All in all, the Pentex subsidiaries have a rather incestuous relationship. 
Arbus Lnterprises 
Ardus Enterprises claims to be a waste-management company that 
responsibly handles municipal waste, hazardous waste and other toxic mate- 
rials, such as PCBs and radioactive wastes. In fact, they are responsible for the 
careless disposal of many wastes, often forging records and shipping papers and 
switching the names and labels of hazardous wastes so that they can be 
dumped in uncontrolled landfills or into unwatched rivers. 
Autumn Health Management Seroices 
Autumn manages hospitals all over North America, and the company 
seeks expansion to Europe and Asia. Its health care facilities operate at 
165 


-
/
/
/
4
k
m
w
w
D
w
d
&
 
minimum standards, and they are generally great places for infestations, pain 
and suffering. Magadon often uses these facilities to test out new products. 
Avalon Incorporateb 
This toy manufacturer seems harmless enough at first glance, but its 
products range from gross to destructive, and they’re designed to promote 
cruelty and violence among the youngest victims. Avalon’s best sellers 
include Pet Pal, a veterinary kit that subtly provokes cruelty to animals; Nuke 
’Em, a violent board game; and Poopi Suzi, a doll that screams and spits up, 
until a child tosses the toy against a wall. Some parents have complained 
about Avalon, to no avail. 
Once a dinky, back-porch operation, Black Dog is now the undisputed leader 
in roleplaying games. Favorites include Zombie: The Putrescence, Lycanthrope: 
The Rapture, Warlock: The Pretension, Pixie: The Delusion and Spectre: The 
Annihilation. These games extol the virtues of tragic hipness, ultra-violence and 
the uncoolnesss of regular people. Players tend to wallow in their own angst, 
whining about the state of their dark souls through their antihero characters’ voices. 
Circinus &ranas Kobacco 
A cigarette and tobacco products company, Circinus appeals to young, hip 
and trendy smokers. It keeps label warnings to a bare minimum and spends 
enormous amounts of money on fashionable advertising campaigns. What Circinus 
isn’t saying is that its tainted products are highly addictive and ultimately fatal. 
Consolibex Worlbwibe 
An international investment firm, Consolidex offers a variety of no-load 
stock options and mutual funds with a low level of initial purchase. This 
appeals to the young, inexperienced investor. The company then takes the 
money and plunges it into other Pentex companies and projects, returning 
just enough growth to keep investors coming back for more. 
Enbron International 
Endron, the oldest Pentex cooperation, also became the largest after 
absorbing Atlas International in 1995. Endron now specializes in cheap petro- 
leum, natural gas and nuclear energy. All their products are below minimum 
standards for emissions and octane levels. Safety standards at the refineries and 
power plants are a joke. Worse, the company has been responsible for a number 
of oil spills and contamination incidents. The death, disease and ecological 
nightmares have been well worth the price of clean-ups. 
Goo3 House International 
I 
Good House manufactures paper products of all kinds, from cheap 
notebooks to flimsy baby wipes. They are a major source of deforestation, 
166 


particularly in Canada and the Amazon. Good House is the second oldest 
company in Pentex, and it has a widespread market. 
Hallahan Fishing Corporation 
Hallahan floods the seafood market with its products, which come at the 
cost of illegal whaling and fishing. The company doesn’t care that hundreds 
of dolphins die in its tuna nets; the products are much cheaper to produce than 
albacore. Hallahan has its own small restaurant chain, and it supplies 
O’Tolley’s as well. Most consumers have no idea of the company’s practices. 
A successful ad campaign, featuring jolly Cap’n Bill Hallahan, has merrily 
misled consumers for the past few years. 
Harolb anb Harolb Mining, Incorporate3 
This company mines all sorts of materials, such as coal, copper, lead, zinc 
and uranium. Strip-mining is preferable, since it’s low cost and does a nice job 
of tearing up the landscape. Harold and Harold is slated for expansion into 
South Africa as soon as tensions in the region settle down. 
Herculean Firearms Incorporateb 
Herculean Firearms manufactures all types of handguns and ammuni- 
tion, including semiautomatic weapons. The company’s real strength is in its 
powerful PAC and lobby. Every year, it manages to convince more and more 
politicians to ignore the issue of gun-control. Herculean’s arms are cheap, too. 
Just about any young criminal can find one to buy or steal. 
Her rick’s 
A US grocery and retail chain, Herrick‘s is the perfect outlet for other 
Pentex corporations’ products. Here, Avalon, Circinus, King, Rainbow, 
Vesuvius and Young and Smith all find an easy way to make lots of money. 
Because of this cooperation, Herrick‘s is able to undersell many other retail 
chains, raking in enormous profits. 
King dreweries anb aistilleries 
Much like Circinus does with tobacco, King Breweries and Distilleries is 
doing an admirable job of always keeping alcohol “cool and hip.” Ads show 
only beautiful people sipping their drinks, always in trendy settings. Most 
products are tainted, leading to fast addiction. 
Magabon, Incorporateb 
Second only to Endron International in sales, the pharmaceutical giant 
Magadon has increased revenues since purchasing Aesop Research Company. 
Aesop’s job is cruel animal experimentation. Another top subsidiary is Panacea 
Pharmaceuticals, which specializes in product development and testing. Over- 
all, Magadon has been responsible for numerous deaths. It gives the public what 
it wants: diet pills, energy supplements and cosmetic implants. 
167 


Mastrum &nterprises 
Nastrum produces cheap weapons of mass destruction, including missiles, 
explosives and stealth aircraft. They’ll sell their products to anyone, a fact kept 
secret from prying eyes in the US government. Nastrum is more than willing to 
supply terrorists; they’ve also sold weapons to both sides of various conflicts. 
Omni Television 
A syndicated network, Omni produces a number of mind-rotting televi- 
sions shows, such as Knights of Angst, about chic high school girls who fight 
monsters of the week; MSG Express, a cooking program; and Concrete Dreams, 
a brutal, live-action cop drama. Omni’s commercials, which show a lot of 
fellow subsidiaries’ products, are subliminal advertising. 
O’Tolle y ’s 
Batter-dipped and double-fried, that’s O‘Tolley’s, the Family Place. This is 
a chain of fast food restaurants specializing in the most greasy, fat-filled food 
imaginable. As such, it appeals to loads of consumers who want quick meals, not 
realizing that some products are tainted. O’Tolley’s ads do a good job of 
promoting a wholesome family atmosphere. What they don’t show are the sad 
conditions of the cattle farms and destroyed rainforests that make way for grazing 
pastures. Eating at O’Tolley’s is a great way to gain 20 pounds, or shred your 
gallbladder. Since such health hazards don’t show up for days or weeks after 
eating at O’Tolley’s, consumers don’t realize the ultimate source of their sickness. 
qainboro Incorporate8 
This company produces a variety of plastic and rubber products, from 
sandwich baggies to tires. Moreover, it has a powerful lobby and media 
campaign that praises the value of plastics to consumers. Expansion into 
Africa and Asia will be vital to Rainbow’s continued growth, as labor costs are 
rising in North America. 
Tellus &nterprises 
Formerly a video game producer, Tellus Enterprises’ takeover of Sunburst 
Enterprises International, a computer company, has led to a substantially 
increased profit margin. Tellus hardware looks sleek, and CPUs come packed 
with attractive and noisy games, thanks to Sunburst. The cost is well below 
that of its competitors’ products. Anybody can buy a Tellus game platform. 
What the ads don’t say is that the computers encourage the average techno- 
geek to turn into a lazy addict. Sometimes kids forget to eat, they’re so keyed 
into these machines. 
Ve suvius 1 ncor por at eb 
Vesuvius publishes a wide range of books, comics and periodicals, and 
advertisers, not surprisingly, include a lot of other Pentex companies. The 
publisher’s most important function is placating the public’s fears about 
168 


environmental hazards and issues like gun control and the state of global 
economics. The comic book lines appeal to the worst instincts of teens, and 
they have been linked to violent crimes. 
Young anb Smith, lncorporateb 
Behind Endron and Magadon, Young and Smith is the third largest Pentex 
subsidiary. This company produces a wide variety of foods and personal care 
products, all of which are unsanitary and chock-full of preservatives. Even the 
packaging, usually obtained from Good House or Rainbow, is tainted. Chances are 
that every family has some kind of product from Young and Smith on its shelves. 
tnbvon International 
Endron is the oldest Pentex corporation, and now the largest. Stretching 
d grasping net wide in the service of the Wyrm. 
History 
Pentex began in 1865 as Premium Oil in the Pennsylvania oil fields. As 
it bought politicians, snapped up competing companies, and spread into the 
giant that became Pentex, though, it lost its focus on the oil and energy 
business. Pentex restructured its board in 1915 and, amidst the energy crises 
of 1916, spun off its oil field businesses as Endron. 
By publicly offering stock in the new company, Pentex received the shot of 
capital that it needed to stay afloat, and the new company began diversifying, 
spreading into refinery operations in the 1930s and gasoline stations a decade 
later. Endron believes in slow and steady progress. Let others jump first and find 
out what the problems are, then Endron will move in slowly and surely. 
Organization 
Endron has an unusual hierarchy. The organizational chart that appears 
in the boardroom does not truly reflect who the hidden leaders of Endron are, 
nor do even they know all. 
tions Officer, Nicholas Morgan and his Chief Financial Officer, Justin Chen, 
t 
Max Carson is Endron’s Chief Executive Officer. With his Chief Opera- 
169 


he controls the majority of Endron’ structure and corporate headquarters, but 
not what the company does. The Board of Directors can dismiss the President, 
but it does not set corporate policy. 
Most employees realize that the CEO and BOD have limited control of 
the company. Instead, “They,” hidden movers and shakers, control the 
company covertly, and they are possessed in turn by an Umbral manifestation 
that coordinates these elements as a single consciousness. For 30 years ((They” 
have loyally served the company in avariety ofpositions. Few can fathom who 
“They” are, but those who know dare not tell. 
Of course, even “They” and the spirit of Endron that animates them do not 
know the full truth of who leads whom. When Harold Zettler, Pentex’s Director of 
Special Projects, arranged for the death in 1959 of Endron’s first President, Hiram 
Bollingswonh, Zettler had no idea of how tenacious Hiram would be. Spade- 
bearded, 300 pounds and only five-and-a-half-feet tall, Bollingsworth was willful 
enough to get his way, even after death. Now the Risen Bollingsworth pursues his 
driving goal of keeping Endron successful, and he is also beginning to stalk the 
paranoid Zettler, over 40 years after the Malkavian arranged for Hiram’s death. 
&nbron’s @oficy 
“Make as much money as quickly as possible with as little overhead as 
possible.” This is Endron’s policy in a nutshell; all else is window dressing. 
This hell-bent-for-leather profitability grab makes the stockholders happy 
and furthers the Wyrm’s goals. Senior executives worry about the next 
quarterly statement; middle managers worry about the monthly profit-and- 
loss (P&L) statement for their facility or branch. Spend money on 
maintenance? Just enough to keep the oil flowing - 
and not a drop more. 
Printed in neat block lettering on white paper, the following motto is found 
in nearly every high-level Endron executive’s workspace: “The cost of the fine 
is always less than the cost of the compliance. ” 
Aoerage Lmployee 
Like most Pentex companies, the average employee has no ideaofwhat Endron 
really pursues. From service station “petroleum transfer engineers” to district 
managers or field geologists, most employees do their jobs, collect their paychecks 
and do not worry where the company is going. Half or so could name Carson as 
president of Endron, thanks to his many memos, but otherwise, the normal employee 
has no idea ofwhat happens at headquarters. Since most employees receive a slightly 
above-average wage and are fired if they are not efficient, wellpmmed and well- 
mannered, Endron has a good public face, behind which it can hide its intentions. 
Putting the International in 
tnbron International 
Whether bribing politicians, exploiting and exploring Third-World 
locations, shipping vast amounts of oil or mismanaging nuclear power, 
170 


Endron is active around the world. In some places, it uses well-armed 
exploration crews. In others, it uses the. most advanced deep-drilling 
techniques. In yet others, it muddles through the acts of making and 
distributing power derived from coal, gas and the radioactive heart of the 
atom. In all these areas, Endron uses a century and a half of tricks and 
techniques to keep petroleum flowing out and cash flowing in while doing 
the work of the Wyrm. 
Political Activities 
Unsurprisingly, Endron remains active in lobbying the political arena 
through several different means. Through overt PACs and under-the-table 
political donations, Endron engages in the normal buying and selling of political 
candidates. Endron also sponsors many official-sounding “citizens groups,” such 
as The Partnership for Energy-Rich America and Citizen Alliance for Reduced 
Strictures. Of course Endron limits the money available for these groups, so the 
Partnership for Energy-Rich America only has one office, six workers and fancy 
stationery, but that’s all that it takes to impress the junior staff of a Congressman. 
Finally, Endron also spends money on advertisements and other means of 
affecting public opinion, attempting to sway the average voter into thinking that 
government regulations cost the taxpayer money and jobs. Outright blackmail 
and bribery are also used, as needed. 
Petroleum Probuction: Onsite Operations 
Whether exploring, drilling or refining, petroleum and energy pro- 
duction are the heart of Endron’s international operations. And once 
Endron moves into an oil field, it’s there to stay as long as there’s oil. 
Fenced with concertina wire (which is sometimes electrified), Endron 
sites have limited road access and their own helicopter pad or airstrip. 
Motion detectors, cameras, towers and armed guards cover both gates of 
a standard Endron site, and the guard’s schedules change weekly to 
prevent infiltration. Outsiders, even visiting officials, are never welcome 
on Endronsites. Visitors are treated with all the warmth that an American 
general would have received during a Cold-War-era inspection of a 
Russian missile site in the Urals. 
Endron uses the same general blueprint from the Gobi to Mexico to 
Canada: barracks for the workers, individual rooms for shift foremen and 
supervisors, and separate quarters with a kitchen for scientists, management 
and other white-collar personnel. Workers are housed away from the around- 
the-clock activities of the production site, although the main road of the 
compound does wend through the producing wells to make trucking and 
(minimal) maintenance easier. 
Sometimes Endron puts in pipeline to the nearest coast, and sometimes 
it relies on trucks, but either way, the oil flows. When Endronrelies on trucks, 
it arms and protects its convoys well. Convoys normally have Uzi-toting 
guards fore and aft, and they often enlist local peace officers as well. 
171 


a e e p  @ark Oceans: arilling ana Shipping 
Endron developed its 2 1 st-century hexagonal Menantol offshore drilling 
platforms to get at the oil that lies deep under the three-quarters of the world 
blanketed by water. Menantol platforms drill up to half a mile deeper than their 
predecessors, and they are built to handle the severe storms of the North Sea, 
where Endron has put the bulk of its offshore drilling. Of course these platforms 
are more than just wells and living quarters. Endron also uses them to explore the 
odd things and inhuman sea-floor constructions it sometimes finds. 
Endron maintains a massive fleet of supertankers that cruise the seas from 
the Persian Gulf to the North Sea. Although other companies envy the 
Endron fleet, which is the largest in the world, few would envy the poor crew 
and equipment conditions on the sadly serviced fleet. From Endron's perspec- 
tive, every trip for which basic maintenance is put off is more profit, and if the 
ship has a severe spill after several trips without maintenance, the company 
still comes out ahead economically. More than any other company, Endron 
is responsible for the proliferation of oil spills around the world. 
Although they are only profitable when an oil field will last decades, 
pipelines are often the fastest, cheapest way for Endron to move oil from an 
oil field to the coast. The benefits for Endron, of course, are more than just to 
the bottom line. A 10-meter-wide swath of ecological horror running from 
the heart of a continent to its coastline is nothing for the Pentex board to 
sneeze at. While the pipelines are usually oil-tight, the toxins that leach from 
the pipeline construction area into groundwater, the barbed fences that often 
carry pheromone lures to tempt animals to their deaths, and the catastrophic 
erosion that often accompanies Endron's poor re-sodding are benefits as well. 


t xplorat ion 
Oil is the heart of Endron’s business. Searching for this black lifeblood of 
the company is one of the things that Endron does best, and at which is does 
its worst as well. From Oman to Texas to the Gobi, Endron looks constantly 
for new resources to exploit. 
Endron Exploratory Personnel Squads, or EEPS, are the five to 30-man 
teams that Endron sends out to search for oil. EEPS personnel are armed with 
the latest technologies and a fine disregard for borders, national laws and 
environmental regulations (although a surprising number of EEPS members 
honestly consider themselves “green,” eco-friendly or at least outdoorsy). 
Each team always has at least two geologists, one support staff member, one 
logistics specialist and one security officer. In dangerous or remote areas, 
Endron will add cooks, mechanics and more security personnel. In extreme 
cases, up to 15 security members will escort two or three geologists. 
Support and logistics staff members take care of daily and mission needs, 
ranging from food to passports to work permits. They are also good at other 
things, ranging from graft to negotiating with bandits; smuggling is a frequent 
pastime. Security personnel are often well-trained and equipped. While they 
may spend most of their time herding drunken geologists, security personnel 
must also be ready to shoot back at locals who object to Endron operations - 
or sometimes even shoot first. 
Standard EEPS equipment includes a Hummer or similar vehicle for 
every two to three team members, including at least one truck carrying 200 
gallons of extra fuel. Several of the vehicles will be fast enough to escape 
dangerous situations. The vehicles also carry supplies such as tents, cots, food 
and exploration gear, including a sizable cache of firearms and a small arsenal 
of explosives (ostensibly for mapping geological substrata). 
Field missions normally last from six days to six months. Normally, only one 
or two team members are “in the know” about Endron’s activities, but some teams 
are composed wholly of fomori and humans who accept working with fomori. 
These groups are often sent in when strange tunnels or unusual phenomenon 
appear. While these EEPS teams have high turnover rates, they suffer from no 
shortage of volunteer team members. These teams are often the best equipped and 
trained, and they sometimes make the tastiest gifts for trapped Banes. 
‘ze c h i  4 u e s 
Searching for oil is a painstaking process. EEPS teams carefully analyze 
all aspects of local geology. Even a large pocket of oil does them no good if it 
is trapped by a slip fault. However, one aspect of exploration is its own reward: 
explosions used to map the underlying strata. The EEPS team member who 
is “in the know” gets first crack at the mapping data. That member is looking 
for oil, of course, but also other things: cave systems, strange anomalies and 
even shadows that might be giant semi-humanoid monsters asleep in the belly 
of the earth. 
173 


One of the least likely suspects but best tools for helping Endron 
prospectors are tiny fossils called conodonts. Originally thought to be fossil- 
ized teeth, conodonts in truth are the wedge-shaped remains of aquatic 
invertebrates that have been extinct for millions of years. While all of that is 
endlessly fascinating, conodonts do have one very useful trait: they tend to 
pick up iron oxide in strata that are oil-bearing, making them bright red and 
highly visible. An experienced EEPS geologist takes a band of rust-red 
conodonts in an outcropping as an excellent sign, and while the correlation 
between such fossil beds and oil isn’t absolute, the presence of the oddly 
colored fossils is one of the most reliable indicators out there. 
What’s even more interesting is that for whatever reason, conodont fossils 
are particularly susceptible to all sorts of outside influences, including Wyrm- 
taint and the natural energies of caems. High-security EEPS groups know how 
to read the coloration of conodont fossil beds to gauge the area’s supernatural 
geology, often with egregious result. Black or oily purple conodonts are particu- 
larly sought after by EEPS teams, since such odd coloration tends to reflect the 
slumbering presence of something truly unpleasant in the strata below. 
Needless to say, drilling is always called for at these sites. 
After the EEPS team has found a likely spot, the drilling teams come in. 
A rotary drilling rig is not a small thing, and Endron cannot hide the roads, 
permits and logistics needed to support a site, so Endron only drills when it is 
reasonably certain of finding oil. Endron doesn’t engage in “wildcatting,” the 
practice of randomly drilling. Endron uses “developmental drilling” instead. 
They find an operating well, called the “infill well,” then spread from there 
with “stepout wells” for petroleum and service wells to manage fluids other 
than petroleum and natural gas. Endron does frequently dabble in line lease 
drainage, drilling wells on property lines bordering on other producing wells. 
Refinery Operations 
Looking for all the world like a metal-and-flame ghetto designed by 
Bosch and Giger, Endron’s refineries reveal a little of who they are to the 
world. Worldwide, but centered in Delaware and San Diego, Endron’s 
refineries turn crude oil into natural gas, gasoline and petrochemicals, in a 
messy process that bums off many chemicals but also spills PCBs, trichloro- 
ethylene and other toxic chemicals into the nearby environment. Endron has 
also experimented with adding teratogenic chemicals to increase birth defects 
in their area, but to no avail. The current run-offs are already too toxic to 
improve. Endron refineries are toxic and explosion threats in the offing. Five 
aboveground gasoline tanks have detonated over the past decade. 
Research, Oeoelopment ana Oestruction 
Ostensibly, the job of the research and development arm of a petroleum 
company is to find new and better uses for crude oil and natural gas, and this is 
in fact some of what Endron’s “secret labs” do. After all, the bills must be paid. 
Endron’s Research and Exploration Entities, or RE&, investigate many other 
17 4 


things that are useful to the Wyrm. Dedicated and amoral, the scientists and 
fomori who staff REEs explore new ways to use Banes, chemistry and combina- 
tions of the two to further Endron goals. Here are some current projects: 
Ways to use Endron products to make vehicles easier to possess by 
unfriendly ghosts or spirits. 
Untraceable infusions of mildly psychoactive or supernaturally active 
chemicals in car deodorizers. 
New techniques for increasing toxic atmosphere emissions from 
refineries in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 
Modifications to higher-grade gasoline formulas to promote catalytic 
converter decay. 
Hunter-killer microorganisms designed to prey on the oil-eating 
bacteria used to clean up oil spills. 
Oistribution anb Sales 
Endron maintains a massive truck fleet of surprisingly professional drivers. 
While Endron’s drivers often skip required services and cheat on their hours in 
their logbooks, they do try to get their tanker truckloads to the service stations 
on time. Although Endron’s secret labs are experimenting with ways to use truck 
paints to attract Banes of fear, anger and other negative emotions, the company 
tries to keep its trucks professional and its gasoline clean, to avoid suspicions. On 
the other hand, about one in a hundred cans of Endron’s motor oils contain a 
Bane-generated corrosive designed to damage and destroy cars. 
&nbron Service Stations an3 &nb Run Mini-Nlarfs 
Clean and well-managed, Endron service stations subscribe to the old 
adage that one catches more flies with honey than vinegar. Now the second 
largest gasoline retailer in the United States, Endron is the most popular 
among married consumers in the 25-49 year old range. Although Endron’s 
gasoline is high on emissions and low on octane, many consumers have 
switched to Endron’s Ruby, Sapphire and Diamond grade fuels, because these 
brands eliminate knocks and pings in older cars.. . but at the cost of “addict- 
ing” the car to Endron fuels. Attempts by consumers to switch to other brands 
just bring the knocks and pings back even worse than before. The pumps 
themselves are less thanstraight. Although they pump the five- and 10-gallon 
increments measured by federal and state standards and practices engineers 
accurately, the pumps otherwise cheat consumers when pumping less than or 
more than these amounts (basically, the pump puts out three gallons when it 
reads four, but “catches up” at 5 gallons). Invented by Endron engineer Willie 
Quesada, these pumps appear worldwide. 
Power Probucfion 
Endron doesn’t just find and ship oil. It makes power, as well - 
and in 
the messiest ways possible. 
175 


Conventional Coal fllants 
The fastest-growing division of Endron is its fossil fuels power plant 
division, which operates anthracite-burning coal-fired power plants across 
North America. Endron doesn’t mine coal, but buys it from the cheapest 
producers, usually those who have the most acidic, dirtiest strip mines. Coal 
is cheap and easy and very, very dirty. In addition to greenhouse gases and 
particulate matter, Endron coal plants dump mercury, lead and other toxic 
metals directly into the air. Endron emission scrubbers, of course, are a joke. 
Muclear flower 
With firms like Con Edison facing massive overhauls to keep their plants 
running, most companies are trying to get out of nuclear power plant 
operations. Not Endron. Endron currently owns seven plants in the United 
States, and it has applied to build four more. Unfortunately, these plants are 
cosmetically overhauled when purchased but never repaired. They are disas- 
ters waiting to happen. 
&lackouts ana the “ ~ o p s ”  Switch 
Considering the delicate interdependencies of modem society, it is no 
wonder that blackouts in major urban areas are regarded as catastrophes. 
While hospitals and the like can supply their own power, anything that 
plunges an entire city into darkness for even alittle while risks plunging it into 
chaos and madness. When the lights go out, every storefront becomes an open 
invitation to loot, every windshield begs to be smashed, and every pile of 
debris promises the heat of a bonfire. Blackouts cause untold millions of 
dollars in property damage, massive damage to a city’s communities and scores 
of deaths from rioting or the simple failure of medical equipment, air 
conditioning in heat waves and the like. Is it any surprise, then, that every so 
often someone at an Endron-owned power plant hits the “Oops” switch - 
a 
small, well-hidden deadman switch that completely cuts off output from the 
plant for a period of up to six hours -smiles, and walks away to watch the fun? 
?+fagabon 
Founded as a research company by retired US Army doctor Bryant 
Vandegrift in 1946, Magadon has grown to be a multinational corporation 
devoted to all areas of medical research, service and production with over 70 
facilities in two dozen countries. With net earnings of $8.1 15 billion last year, 
Magadon is among the world’s leading pharmaceutical corporations. 
Area of ausiness 
Magadoncreates, develops andextensively tests health products at 10 major 
research centers in the United States, Canada and Europe, and it produces, 
formulates and packages its products in 68 plants in North and South America, 
17 6 


Europe and Southwest Asia. The company produces over 600 different products, 
for health care needs ranging from cardiovascular and neurological issues to 
vaccines and antibiotics and veterinary operations and treatment. Magadon 
makes both prescription medicines and over-the-counter remedies. 
Magabon: History 
In October 1946, a doctor named Bryant Vandegrift retired from the 
Army Medical Corps at the rank of brigadier general. Together with four of 
his former subordinates, Vandegrift founded a small research firm named 
Magadon Limited in Trenton, NJ. This company’s focus was on counter- 
biological warfare. It developed vaccines for diseases that might be used as 
weapons in future wars. By 1950, Magadon Limited had five research 
contracts with the United States Army and one with the United Nations, and 
construction began on a new research facility in West Virginia. 
By 1956, Magadon, Incorporated’s future looked bright. It had recovered 
from the resource depletion that its rapid expansion had caused, and stocks 
(first made public in 1955) were climbing steadily. The company first went 
overseas in this year with the acquisition of Dunlop & Farrier, a British firm 
specializing in cancer treatments. 
spreading to nearby communities. The facility was a complete write-off. At 
the order of Magadon’s Board of Directors, the site was sterilized and destroyed 
with military incendiary weapons. Shaken by the close brush with disaster, 
the board met in a closed session to discuss Magadon’s future. What was said 
in this series of meetings is a matter of conjecture. What is known is that when 
the board adjourned two weeks later, the groundwork had been laid for 
Magadon’s buyout by a megacorporation named Pentex. 
The Pentex takeover was completed in late 1959. Magadon was able to pay 
off its last few outstanding debts (both acquisition-related and a handful of 
product liability lawsuits) with the huge influx of ready capital that the buyout 
gave it. However, some of the directors objected to the restructuring and policy 
changes that Pentex demanded. Pentex extended the restructuring to upper 
management, and the objectors were paid off handsomely and replaced with 
newly promoted former division heads who were more amenable to Pentex’s 
“suggestions.” (Several founders died of gunshot wounds or “natural causes.” 
However, at least one of the founders, Matthew Davies, slew the First Team sent 
to kill him and escaped. He may still be at large vexing Pentex.) 
Once the initial shakeup following the Pentex takeover was complete, 
Magadon took off with renewed vigor. Its strong corporate partnership with 
177 


Autumn Health Management Systems, another Pentex-held corporation, 
gave it a guaranteed market share as well as access to an entire network of 
hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and related facilities. Magadon also took 
advantage of the Pentex ICs to implement advanced market analysis tech- 
niques, giving the company a leg up on its competition. Between 1958 and 
1998, Magadon went from a 12.8% market share to a 22.5% share, making it 
one of the three largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. With its 
recent takeover of Aesop Research and the rumors of an upcoming merger 
with Autumn, it looks like Pentex may be setting Magadon up to be the 
dominant global health care provider by the end of the next decade. 
& t h i ca 1 Con f 1 i ct s 
Magadon is, in large part, a legitimate company with caring, well-meaning 
employees who truly want to do their best for humanity. Although the company 
is a tool of the Wyrm, it is also a tool of the untainted medical industry. Don’t 
hesitate to corhont players with deep moral questions if their characters decide 
to destroy a Magadon facility or crash a section of MagNet. Will the data and 
resources denied Pentex be worth the innocent human lives that the loss of 
legitimate medical research may cost? There shouldn’t be an easy answer to this 
one. Make the players think; make the characters sleep restlessly. 
Corporate Organization 
Magadon’s corporate structure is arranged on a slightly haphazard model. 
Each operational division (every division but Administration and Sales and 
Marketing is classed as “operational”) has its own specialized internal bureau- 
cracy and its own research arm. This inefficient distribution of tasks leads to 
a great deal of duplication of effort, but it also allows the corporation to 
micromanage itself to a painfully fine degree. 
Abminis frafion 
Administration, the largest division of Magadon, handles the tasks of 
salary disbursement, human resources, corporate information systems and 
legal defense, keeping the multinational conglomerate functioning to leave 
the operational divisions free to pursue research and profit. Actually, Admin 
is a bureaucratic nightmare in which employees quickly learn that it is more 
productive to work around the system rather than with it. 
This division is responsible for MagNet, the wide area network main- 
frame that connects every Magadon facility. Despite the minor Y2K problem 
and the loose security, Magadon is currently attempting to place remote 
terminals for this system in their clients’ facilities to provide easier access to 
fill orders and answer questions. Yet despite MagNet, all information that 
comes to Magadon is stored in hardcopy form, by Admin, inside giant data 
warehouses. If a party has several nights and an idea as to where to search, 
these gold mines of information can prove useful. 
178 


Sales ana Marketing 
Sales and Marketing is responsible for getting Magadon’s products onto 
the shelves and for keeping the company’s public image clean. These are the 
people that the public is most likely to see. Employees of this division can 
afford no screw-ups because they are the ones in the foreground, providing 
college recruiters, the cheerful sales reps who come equipped with free 
samples for the physician or pharmacist, and the smiling TV spokespersons. 
The Media Crisis Team (MCT) is kept on 24-hour call to vanquish any 
negative press from the public’s eye as quickly as possible. With their skills of 
old-fashioned double-talk (rather than supernatural or biomedical means) 
these skilled spin-doctors and their intermediaries, such as Omni Television 
and Vesuvius Publishing, can put to rest any concerns raised to the public or 
even subtly move the blame to their competitors. 
C;erontology (C;erOio) 
Gerontology is the study of the aged. This division specializes in using 
elderly patients dropped off in Pentex-affiliated nursing homes as convenient 
human tests subjects while carrying on the fagade of providing high quality 
care for those who need assistance in their daily lives. Under an image of 
“Volunteer Health Programs” designed to administer the latest in cutting- 
edge geriatric medicine in conjunction with Autumn health care systems, 
these facilities can study the effects of new chemicals and supernatural 
substances in completely controlled environments. Gerontology tends to 
work in conjuncture with other Magadon divisions. 
Pebiatrics (Pebs) 
Pediatrics is the medical study of individuals under the age of 18. Peds 
must be extra cautious because a scandal involving children will assuredly 
bring down the entire corporation. Therefore, there is a tendency to create 
and administer medications that will have long-term effects. For example, a 
medication for acne may cure the present symptom, but over long-term use 
may lead to cataracts when the child reaches early adulthood. 
In conjunction with the PsyDiv a number of “mood-altering medica- 
tions” have been created and distributed that when administered in early 
puberty can prevent a Garou cub’s First Change. 
Women’s Mebicine (Fernweb) 
The Women’s Medicine division is devoted to reproductive medicine, 
including gynecology and neonatal care. An avid feminist, Dr Julia Miller, 
runs this facility. Sales and Marketing is often concerned about her pro- 
female tirades and the division’s stance on abortion. Some theorize that she 
has come to her position uncorrupted because of her frequent national 
appearances, which draw attention away from the other Magadon divisions. 
This division will work with Public Health to dispense counseling and 
medications to women (which actually deliver what they promise). 
179 


Infectious Oiseases (10) 
ID studies fungi, bacteria and viruses that are harmful to human health. 
Oddly enough, this division’s work ethic is sincere - 
it really does want to 
cure the diseases of mankind, making it rely on its products. Because of the 
nature of its work, it is in a great position to develop biological weapons. This 
division is allocated the largest budget, and Pentex is aware that an estimated 
60% of America’s vaccines come from Magadon. Pentex corporate occasion- 
ally orders certain batches to be “altered” before shipment. 
Genetics ( G e n O i o )  
The newest Magadon division, Genetics was established in 1986. Under 
the guise of medical research to discover cures for diseases that are suspected 
to be genetic in origin, this division develops methods of introducing new 
diseases to the general public. Through ID’S vaccination program, it has been 
able to distribute cures for one sickness (flu inoculations, tetanus boosters, 
etc.) while leaving an underlining strain of another that can remain dormant 
until an activator is introduced. At this point, Pentex affiliates give the public 
the breakthrough cure for this tragic disease. Currently, this division is 
attempting to find a way to completely suppress lycanthropy. 
Mutritional Health ( M H O i o )  
With the aid of Sales and Marketing, NHDiv has launched an aggressive ad 
campaign to push the “health” food, drinks and supplements all across North 
America’s middle class boasting a “new and better you.” From the sports drinks, to 
the over-the-counter diet pills, these products are highly psychologically addictive. 
They may grant short-term wellness, but they still have a long-term underlying 
effect. Energy bars will give a strong energy boost, but once the victim is off, she feels 
drained anddepressed. An appetite suppressant may help a woman lose weight, but 
she could develop ovarian cysts years later. A small number of these products 
contain dormant Banes waiting to shape the consumer into a fomor. 
flsychiatric Therapy (dosy O i u )  
The medications produced by this PsyDiv are highly addictive and 
unpredictable, with the largest percentage of Bane-infested products of the 
company. The infested doses are sometimes doped with short-term memory 
inhibitors, so that the patient will miss several doses and become unstable. 
Should this patient go on a killing spree, his mood stabilizer won’t be found 
in his system (although the Bane is), allowing for company deniability. 
Consumer Probucts t C @ )  
This division develops and manufactures a vast array of everyday drug- 
store products, including everything from antiperspirant to decongestants. 
These products provide the Wyrm with the greatest opportunities to spread 
its work all over the globe, from painkillers to which users quickly develop a 
tolerance to condoms with pinholes in them. 
I80 


Technologies anb Applications (Techs anb Apps) 
This division handles the production of all medical and pharmaceutical 
equipment. Their products are not considered the industry’s best, but they include 
anything from syringes and rubber gloves to heart monitors. As with Consumer 
Products, Technologies have many opportunities to spread chaos and despair. 
UJublic Health (UJubHealth) 
Under the name Metcalf, this division is known for managing drug rehabilita- 
tion clinics, detox centers and women’s clinics. Joining with August Health 
Management systems, they use recovering addicts as specimens on whom to test new 
biomedical concoctions in a controlled environment. Under the guise of counter- 
addiction research, these laboratories also process and distribute illicit drugs. 
Ueterinary Health 
Before the Aesop Research Company merger, VetDiv’s responsibility 
was focused on pet health. Now, this division operates as an animal-testing 
program. Products from the other divisions are tested in this division. One 
program that survived the Aesop merger was the Endangered Predators 
Preservation Foundation (EPPF). EPPF is financed through so many layers of 
laundering that it is virtually impossible to trace it back to Magadon. Most 
shapeshifters are unaware of Pentex’s involvement with this organization. As 
such, they tend to trust and approve of its attempt to relocate species to less 
populated areas, never realizing that Pentex uses this program to put suspect 
breeding stock in surveillance areas. Several shapeshifters have been killed or 
captured during these creatures’ attempts to find mates. 
Special UJrojects 
This division is virtually unknown to the public. One of its main projects is 
the production of chemical and biological weapons that are in demand by 
governments. SP also develops and provides Pentex First Teams with chemical 
and biological agents tailored specifically to affect shapeshifters. The limiting 
factor in advancing this project is the shortage of live test subjects. Divisional 
information exchange is kept to a minimum so that it’s difficult to trace Magadon’s 
projects, and so that any unsavory projects that come to public awareness can be 
written off as “rogue” and the company’s image left relatively untarnished. 
Magabon Manual of d7harmaceuticals 
Like any other pharmaceuticals company, Magadon produces medicinal 
drugs for both over-the-counter and prescribed use. The majority of Magadon 
products and projects are actually benign and untainted. Although the 
corporation is a tool of the Wyrm, it needs to make a great deal of money. It 
does so by working within the governmental guidelines place on health care 
products. Magadon is perfectly respectable 99% of the time. It’s that remain- 
ing 1% that keeps Garou worrying about what their Kinfolk ease their 
headaches with. 
181 


Riot-Control Chemicals 
Widely used by law enforcement officials, tear gas and other riot-control 
agents were widely used against protesters during the latter half of the 20th- 
century. Disseminated by grenades, canisters fired from shotguns, backpack 
and vehicle-mounted sprayers (and even artillery shells), riot-control agents 
sting and bum the eyes, nose, sinuses and other mucous membranes. 
Pepper Spray 
Also known as Oleo-resin capsicum, pepper spray is widely available and 
socially acceptable, but it is normally restricted from airports and other sensitive 
locations. Pepper spray causes tears and intense pain. Attacking someone with 
pepper spray requires a normal Physical Challenge. If the attack is successful, the 
victim is unable to use his sense of smell and is two Traits down for combat and 
perception challenges. If the victim was using Heightened Senses, the penalty is 
doubled. The effects last for 10 minutes or one scene, whichever is longer. 
Form: Sprayed liquid Availability: Over-the-counter 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the drug 
effects completely 
Tear Gas 
Commonly used by police and paramilitary officers in the westem world, 
tear gas is widely available to the right officials. 
Tear gas causes intense pain and tearing as well as skin irritation and 
nausea. Tear gas normally affects an area (use a three-foot radius for the 
average grenade in open areas, or affect a whole room). An affected victim is 
unable to use her sense of smell and is three Traits down for combat and 
perception challenges. If the victim was using Heightened Senses, the penalty 
is doubled. The effects last for five minutes or one scene after the victim gets 
to fresh air, whichever is longer. 
Form: Thrown or fired canisters or grenades 
Availability: Issued by police or similar agency, or on the street (two or more 
Police or Undereoorld Influences or three or more Srreet Influences for one canister). 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the drug 
effects completely 
Gas Masks and Wet Blankets 
Law enforcement officials normally wear gas masks and other types of 
respirators to protect themselves from tear gas or other riot-control agents. 
Protesters and othervicti msoften try togain the same protection from wet cloths 
and other improvised protection. For Mind’s Eye Theatre, a victim of a riot- 
control agent may use the same technique.. . but she will still be down two Traits 
for most challenges from the clumsiness of holding the wet cloth over her face. 
& w m m w t i c a l  ana Supernatural a r u g  Lffects 
The Mind’s Eye Theatre system is not supposed to be a contest to see who 
can memorize the strangest trivia from the published rules. The drug effects 
listed here are suggested for use in MET chronicles -but use common sense. 
182 


Don’t become so dependent on the descriptions that you walk around with a 
finger on it all the time. Remember that different beings react to drugs 
differently, and use Storyteller discretion. 
If you need to create new drug effects for supernatural drugs, consider using other 
Mind’s Eye Theatre sources. For example, look at the different alchemical potions 
listed in Laws of the Hunt. Drugs that are widely available to Pentex personnel 
might have minimal side effects (like Wyrm-taint) and act like a Basic alchemical 
formula. Those available to a First Team might act like a potion that was created at 
the Intermediate or Advanced level and have much more deleterious side effects. 
For good and ill, Magadon has developed quite a few Supernaturally 
active drugs and devices. Many of these items carry Wyrm-taint. Some items 
are naturally Wyrm-tainted because of their purpose. (Nerve agents for use in 
chemical warfare carry Wyrm-taint almost solely because of their intended 
use.) Other items are intentionally tainted; a few are even nastier. Oddly, 
many of these items are so low-key that they may not even register as ‘magical’ 
to Uktena or human sorcerers who search for such. 
Ofcourse, Magadon has also developed many drugs to enhance the lives and 
livelihoods of Pentex employees as well. Some are widely available, while others 
are more tightly controlled. Not a few of these would be widely sought after and 
harder toget if they becameknownoutside the Pentex corporate family --which 
is yet another reason Pentex employees are so very loyal to the firm. 
Harmful Supernatural a r u g s  ana fgeuices 
Not a few of Magadon’s supernaturally active drugs are designed to sow 
confusion among Garou and others who can sense Wyrm or Jhor taint or who 
are susceptible to harassment by Bane spirits. 
Wyrm Faux 
Wyrm Faux is a substance that creates a false “aura of the Wyrm.” 
Magadon slips it randomly into some of its pharmaceuticals. When ingested, 
Wyrm Faux causes the subject to show Wyrm-taint to the Sense Wyrm Gift 
for a week. This false reading can be dispelled by the Rite of Cleansing.. . or by 
killing the (probably innocent) victim. 
Form: Capsule or tablet 
Availability: Magadon slips it randomly into some of its pharmaceuticals. 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the drug 
Bane Lures 
Bane Lures are small pellets made from Black Spiral Dancer bone that 
draw Banes to a victim’s vicinity. The Banes do not actually possess the 
victim, they merely follow her and raise havoc. When ingested, a Bane Lure 
lodges itself in the victim’s appendix (or passes out if there is no appendix). 
Once there, it remains for four months, slowly summoning Banes to the 
vicinity until there are Banes present with a total Gnosis equal to the victim’s 
Willpower x 10. It can be detected with Sense Wyrm. 
effects completely 


The Bane Lure can be removed by surgery or destroyed by a Rite ofcleansing. 
Form: Capsule or tablet 
Availability: Magadon slips it randomly into some of its pharmaceuticals. 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: No effect 
Bane-in-a-Bottle 
Bane-in-a-Bottle is essentially a “binary” Wyrm infestation. The victim ingests 
something infested with a Bane, which isn’t released until it is exposed to adrug trigger. 
When ingested, a Bane-in-a-Bottle implants a sleeping Bane Gaffling or Jaggling in 
the victim. It can be detected with Sense Wyrm, provided the Gift-user knows what 
to look for. A Rite of Cleansing can destroy it. If this sleeping Bane is later exposed to 
the drugUmbrophreno1-6, the Bane awakens and attempts to use its Possession Charm 
against the victim. If it succeeds, the victim becomes a fomor in as little as six hours. 
Form: Capsule or tablet 
Availability: Magadon slips it randomly into some of its pharmaceuticals. 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the 
Bane-in-a-Bottle effects completely 
‘‘6 
ene ficial” Super nut u r a1 a r  
u g s and 0 
e vices 
While Magadon does create many harmful drugs, it also crafts many that 
Delerex Lupus-7 
A clear blue liquid issued in auto-injectors, Delerex Lupus-7 is used across 
Pentex to block the effects of the Delirium. Fortunately, the latest version is not 
as likely to cause chemical lobotomization. When injected, Delerex makes the 
user immune to the Delirium for three hours, but it gives the user the Negative 
Trait Witless. If used more than once in 24 hours, the user must make a Static 
Physical Challenge against six Traits or lose one Mental Trait permanently and 
acquire the Negative Trait Witless until he can buy it off with Experience Traits. 
are ostensibly helpful for its employees and the rest of Pentex. 
Form: Liquid in an auto-injector 
Availability: Pentex-wide 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the drug 
Anagath F45.6 
Anagath F45.6 is an anti-aging drug that has been around since the late 
1940s. Used monthly, Anagath F45.6.retards the aging process by a factor of 
10. Only “normal” humans benefit; partially Awakened mortals and other 
supernatural creatures gain no effect. Users are one Trait down to resist the 
vampiric Discipline of Dominate. 
effects completely 
Form: Clear, pale yellow liquid injected with a syringe 
Availability: Only available to Pentex scientists and executives with 
Resist Toxin and Related Gifts: Activating the Gift neutralizes the drug 
salaries in the $80,000 per annum or more range 
effects completely 
184 


,-l/- 
Psiphrenol 
Psiphrenol is a combat drug for psychics that acts as a neurotoxin on 
ordinary humans. It is made from the spinal fluid of dead psychics. Used by a 
psychic, Psiphrenol lasts for five turns after injection. During that time, the 
psychic gets an additional action each turn and is two Traits up for psychic 
numina. If used more than once in 24 hours, the user must make a Static 
Physical Challenge against six Traits or lose one Willpower Trait perma- 
nently and take a level of lethal damage. If injected into a non-psychic, the 
victim must make a Static Physical Challenge against six Traits or take three 
levels of aggravated damage. 
Form:Clearyellowliquidwithanacidicodorinjectedwithanauto -in 
’ j ector 
t Odyssey and First Tea 
lated Gifts: Activating 
Get ’em while the 
enough at first glance, 
Avalon’s best sellers 
cruelty to animals; Nu 
m gross to destructive. 
d Poopi Suzi, a doll that 
st a wall. Some parents 
materialism and urbanization through Avalon’s toys. It does so with every- 
thing from violent toys to marketing campaigns that promote expansion kits 
and an urban megalopolis background. 
Avalon’s methods are underhanded and subtle. After all, it is geared 
toward children and as such, nothing should seem too obvious. The objective 
is to produce self-absorbed, apathetic adults who are easily influenced by 
propaganda. To achieve this, these toys are designed to stifle a child’s self- 
esteem and normalize violence. Their top-sellers are Action Bill figures which 
come equipped with combat fatigues, bazooka and “enemy soldiers and 
shapeshifters” with pop-off appendages. 
185 


A u alo n’s 0 
r g ani z a t i on 
Founded by a Pentex intern, Daniel Dial, in 1968, Avalon is relatively 
small compared to other Pentex affiliates. The five divisions that make up 
Avalon are Production, Public Relations and Marketing, Consumer-Reac- 
tion Management, Engineering and Production, and Testing and Application. 
@r o buct ion 
Currently there are four major production centers in operation. These are in 
Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and Las Vegas. There are about 450 assembly line workers at 
each center, turning out products as quickly as possible. Each center produces two or 
three toys, except Las Vegas which is diversified enough to produce any of the toys and 
games that Avalon markets. Therefore, Las Vegas can keep the output going until the 
regular center is back on line, should any of the production lines elsewhere go down. 
public Relations ana Marketing ( ~ R M )  
This department is responsible for getting the toys to the public and creating 
demand. It’s employees attend store openings with additional toys to give to the 
first 100 kids. In conjunction with North America Wrestling Association 
(NAWA) they haveplacedActionBil1 in the spotlight andwatchedprofitssoar. 
They design TV commercials for highest appeal to their select audiences. 
Consumer-Reaction Management 
This new division works closely with PRM. They work to gather qualitative 
information so that PRh4 can do its job more effectively. Its methods include 
using mock consumers that attempt to find the overall feel of the market. These 
are the people who will face the Consumer Watchdog groups. 
&ngineering anb arobuction 
These designers are content to implement ideas for the newest toys. They 
will map out to the exact detail what the toy will do, what materials are needed 
and where they go, as well as the plastic moldings, paints and the devices 
needed to create it, and give a full feasibility analysis. 
‘Cesting anb Application 
This department has the taskofseeing thenewest products inuse. They tend 
to do their field testing in daycare centers in loweincome areas. It has been 
observed that these areas have the highest demand for the newest toys. It is 
believed that this is because the sample toys are given to the children at no 
charge. After several days, the researcher returns to the daycare centers to see if 
the children are still playing with the toys. 
Likely Encounters 
Garou and others may encounter everything from Wyrm-tainted toys to 
arcane artifacts amongst Avalon’s toys. Others may also encounter some of 
186 


Avalon’s strangeness. Daniel Dial, the president of Avalon, is actually a fallen 
Son of Ether mage. He is not a burubbus, a Wyrm-corrupted mage, but rather 
a disillusioned soul whose goals are more toward that of the Weaver- 
influenced Technocracy than that of the Wyrm. 
Cici@ 
Cici and her friends Muffy, Helena and the British Emma are dolls 
designed to subvert the self-image of those children who play with the 
disproportionately thin little mannequins. While not necessarily Wyrm- 
tainted, the latest of these dolls do their work with voice chips that tout the 
importance of being slender, pretty and popular. New additions like the 
coloring book with characters such as “Eat it all Elaine” (an unpopular fat kid) 
further this goal. The chips in the dolls cause them to interact with eachother, 
to the point of excluding the child, leaving her a passive spectator and causing 
her self-esteem to plummet. 
Action @ill@ 
Originally appearing in the Vesuvius comic series and on the animated 
OmniTV show Action Bill and the Danger Squad, Action Bill is an 1 1” doll who 
can be outfitted with many items from the expensive expansion packs. (The 
comic books have helpful tips on Improvised Munitions.) Sprinkled among 
these packs is the occasional Bane ensconced in a Wyrm-tainted talen 
(remember, non-Garou may activate talens with Willpower). 
Bane Talen: Action Bill Special Police Badge@ 
Gnosis: 2 
Spirit Affinity: Bane 
These badges allow the child one free use of the Subterfuge Ability and a 
follow-up retest as if with the Basic Gift Persuasion when attempting to 
countermand authority figures - 
including Garou relatives or Kinfolk - 
or 
otherwise get what they want. The intent is to teach the child how to subvert 
his authorities in the interest of avarice. 
pocket @casts 
A calculator-shaped electronic toy that imitates a puppy or kitten that 
barks, whines and begs for food and attention on its LCD screen, this toy actually 
encourages children to actively “shush” and ignore the pet’s barks or meows. 
After several days of neglect the pet “dies” and a winged form goes to an LCD 
heaven, singing happily, allowing the child to start over... and kill another pet. 
Kinfork ana ~ o y s  
The truly nasty Storyteller might inform Garou players that their 
Kinfolk‘s children are acting more and more like Stepford automatons. If they 
investigate, the players discover that the Kinfolk children have been exposed 
to Banes infesting their Avalon toys, then face the choice of depriving the 
children of their toys (and aiding the Wyrm indirectly by upsetting children 
187 


and angering relatives) or allowing the atrocity to continue. Hopefully, the 
characters will investigate more, potentially discovering even more Wym- 
tainted, Bane-infested toys requiring action. 
What can really defeat the influence of an Avalon toy on a child? In the end, 
it comes down to two things - 
time and attention. Children who are receiving 
loving attention and quality time with parents, other relatives, neighbors, 
teachers or mentoring adults are less likely to suffer from the influence of a Bane. 
A self-confident little girl who’s taught to love herself may be less likely to be 
influenced by Cici and friends, while a little boy with a strong father-figure may 
not turn to Action Bill. Unfortunately, in the World of Darkness, time and 
attention are two things that most children do not have, as parents struggle to 
make ends meet and the neighborhoods shutter their windows in fear. Garou 
may find themselves at an interesting crossroads when their work is done. Do 
they simply depart and hope things don’t slide back, or do they stick around and 
fill the void that Avalon was trying to choke? 
paperwork for incorporation is filed in Delaware). From these offices 
flow the directives of Corporate, and woe betide those who do not abide 
by those dictates. Corporate backs up these draconian policies with 
frequent surprise inspections as well. Founded in 1884, KBD is still under 
the control of its founding company, despite the Pentex buy-out of 
several years ago. 
King’s companies include King Spirits, which produces hard liquor, as 
well as other companies. Connecticut’s King Import imports fine beers and 
illegal contraband. Massachusetts’ Ruskaiya Distilleries produces cheap, low- 
quality vodka for many other brand names, and it may be single-handedly 
responsible for the bad name of US vodkas. The poorly run Thaw Beverages 
produces carbonated non-alcoholic mixers (which aren’t quite tainted but do 
accelerate gestation for the Bane-infested). Dragon Valley Wines is a small 
California vintner, whose main Bane influence is the single mutant vine that 
produces all of its grapes. Rhode Island’s Ten Tickle Ales is King’s experiment 
in the thriving microbrewery market. 
188 


E i ke 1 y t 
n cou n t e r s 
Players might encounter everything from the occasional tainted King 
product to corrupt and Wyrm-tainted fomori employees. Remember that not 
every beer is W
w
 
tainted. If that were so, the FDA would shut King down, even 
in the World of Darkness. Instead, their products are just a little cheaper, a little 
more addictive, a little rougher on the liver. Signs of King are omnipresent, like 
the hat house posters of King’s Laws of Partying (including the rules for Beer Pong 
and other drinking games). The actual Wyrm-sign is rarer. 
T h e  King’s Wenches 
A troupe of models working under the nom de stage of “The King’s 
Wenches,” these ladies have the role of presenting King products in the best 
light possible, and themselves as well. They wear sheer swimsuits, low-cut 
bondage/fantasy maid outfits, even the occasional sharply cut schoolteacher’s 
outfit with just the right slit to the skirt. These ladies have the job of luring 
fans back again and again without actually doing anything other than trying 
not to look bored. Seeded among the Wenches are a few Enticer fomori, who 
may seduce some of their fans, preparing them to become new hosts for Banes. 
Pity the poor fool who thinks he’s getting lucky with a Wench. 
Oragon Valley Vine (ana Offshoots) 
The single vine that is the Dragon Valley vine is alive, sentient and 
malicious. Using seed-borne mind control to possess the Weeden family, it 
dominates its valley in California. Since those who have eaten its seeds and 
been possessed may have wandered off and died after a few years, it may have 
siblings elsewhere. The vines are capable of tripping victims, strangling them, 
slashing at them for one level of lethal damage or simply just popping a fat, 
juicy grape in an unfortunate’s mouth before letting her wander away. 
Ten square foot patch of vine 
Physical Traits (12): Ferocious x 4, Quick x 4, Resilient x 4 
Abilities: Awareness x 1, Brawl x 3, Dodge x 3 
Health Levels: Healthy x 3, Bruised x 6, Wounded x 3, Incapacitated, Dead 
Cellus 
It’s Not Just a Game, It’s Your New Reality: Lose Yourself 
-(Tellus marketing slogan) 
Known for its frenzied, violent video games, Tellus has a reputation for 
pushing the limit on violence and sex in the video game industry. Founded by 
whiz-kid programmer “DOC” Abraham Riegel in 1985, the company has 
grown by leaps and bounds, purchasing ailing Japanese publisher Tetsumomo 
Studios in 1992 and fellow Pentex subsidiary Sunburst Enterprise Interna- 
tional (a computer hardware company) in 1997. With the release of the 
Typhoon, its 128-bit machine, Tellus is doing better than ever. 
189 


Focused on desensitization, Tellus makes happily addictive games of gore 
(such as Slaughtercraft), which occasionally feed Gorehound fomori. This pro- 
motes Pentex’ long-range Omega Plan by destroying its customers’ interpersonal 
skills and depriving them of motivation. Of course, the occasional Bane-infested 
program doesn’t hurt in the short term, either. One of the surprisingly successful 
lines are the ecological games like A Wolfs Life and The Big Pond. Aside from 
intimating that predators kill for fun as well as food, these games are moderately 
accurate, but they play up the gore and violence found in nature, either turning 
the child away from a love of nature or encouraging violence. 
m u i s i o n s  
With locations in Europe, Japan and California’s Silicon Valley, Tellus 
n before (in the interest of some 
European houses work on design, 
makes both hardware and soft 
hardware, which has 
reliability). In turn, t 
translation and lice 
compatible Typhoon game 
away.) Of course, the occa 
Jaggling whose sole intent is 
game where players face a blasted cityscape populated with Hell-spawned 
demons, mutants, vampires, zombies, cyborgs, cultists and each other. Players 
get ahead by stealing, assassination, stockpiling contraband, cybernetic 
modifications, forbidden magics and other exotica. Eschewing the traditional 
fantasy work of other online games, Terminus is drawn from the urban 
dystopias of programmers who, though Bane-touched, share a common world 
not much different than that of the cyberpunk genre of the 1980s ... or the 
Utopia of Pentex’s Omega Plan. 
Terminus fulfills another function, however. Tellus cross-indexes a 
player’s credit background and their history of taking desperate actions. If the 
player seems likely to do anything to win, they become a likely candidate for 
“special work” for Pentex. More than one future fomor identified herself by 
her willingness to put in just one extra hour on Terminus. 
190 


nrack a o g  Game Factory 
Located in Atlanta, Georgia, the notorious yet successful Black Dog 
Game Factory is one of Pentex’s stranger subsidiaries. Attempting to fight the 
same apathy and disaffection that Pentex inflicts on the world, the developers 
and staff of the game company struggle against their own monthly apocalypses 
of marketing, line meetings, prime distribution, new properties, publishing 
schedules and other cataclysms of the marginal roleplaying game industry. 
Although its origins are shrouded in mystery, this small but successful 
Pentex subsidiary was originally started by a merger of a struggling game 
magazine publisher in Atlanta and a game studio from a backwoods town in 
Alabama that was adjacent to the US Army Chemical School of the now- 
closed Fort McClellan (which had been leaking Wyrm-tainted toxins into 
the surrounding communities throughout the 20th century). Riding the 
Anne Rice-inspired Goth-and-angst craze of the late 1980s and early 1990s, 
he Putrescence. 
tly toward the alien- 
pany officials call “the 
nominal exceptions 
oes include oddities 
ranging from a clean 
tex company but is in fact 
not that Bane-infested. It doesn’t need to be. Feeding the Masses’ alienation 
is a trade and hobby that has been normalized over the past two centuries, and 
it barely even seems Wyrm-tainted to most Westerners. The homes of its 
developers, managers and production and administrative staff are more likely 
to contain free-ranging Banes and fomori, such as the Thing Beneath the 
Stairs, than the actual offices (where they even try to keep reading material 
out of the restrooms). 
Goblins 
Quasi-fomori created by long-termcontact with the tainted inkof Black Dog’s 
more “mature” publications, these fallen gamers possess an amazing array of strange 
and obnoxious powers after their change. Woe betide the aspiring Silver Fang who 
runs afoul of a pack of crazed, violent, gamers with poor hygiene and a strange sense 
of joy at finally being able die in a real-life scene from Lycanthrope: The Rapture. 
191 


McLaren Formula 
Bribing appropriate officials of both countries, Black Dog actually sends 
its books to the cold wastes of Quebec for printing, where a deranged 
Canadian print manager has devised the ultimate Bane lure - 
the ink in each 
product. Acting as beacons for Banes, these publications lure the Wyrm- 
spirits to the game books, usually located near a gamer’s bed or study. Once 
there, the Banes begin their work of corruption on the poor soul. 
Con u e n t i o n s 
Having fallen to the addictions of their own products, a few Black Dog 
employees find themselves wandering from SF convention to gamer conven- 
tion. They may be found crowded behind a small table along with the first-available 
bit of female booth-bait, spiritlessly flogging Black Dog product. 
@e s ou r ce s 
What’s been presented here is only the tip of the iceberg. More in-depth 
information about Pentex and its subsidiaries can be found in Subsidiaries: 
A Guide to Pentex. 
For information about real-world business news and practices, the Internet 
is a fine place to look for expositions on dirty-dealing companies. The business 
section of your local bookstore also carries a variety of accounts on businesses 
who didn’t play fair. To learn more about the day’s noteworthy news in the world 
of finance and the global marketplace, visit the newsstand for perennial favorites 
such as The Wall Street Journal and Burron’s, or even your local newspaper for 
potential setting material. Magazines such as Tim and Newsweek also carry 
business sections, which may or may not be layman friendly. And of course, one 
cannot forget “Dilbert,” which has come toexpose the interior hi jinx andgeneral 
foolishness of corporate life (with a few more warts, Catbert could easily become 
a Toad.) Dilbert’s creator, Scott Adams, has also written a couple of prose works 
describing his own adventures in Cubicleland that sparked the cartoon. Lady, 
National Public Radio carries a daily radio show called Marketplace that 
reconsiders the day’s news in a financial light and occasionally runs features on 
the American public’s perceptions of money and business. 
In Summation 
Battling Pentex may be one of the greatest fights the Garou can take on, 
and also one of the most disheartening. It’s one thing to destroy the Pet Pal 
kit a young neighbor is using on a stray cat; it’s quite another to see shelves 
loaded with them at the local toy store. Walk down the street, and in a block, 
you see a Herrick‘s, an O’Tolley’s and an Endron-supplied gas station selling 
Circinus cigarettes and King Breweries beer. Pentex has done its work quite 
well. It is so firmly entrenched in the consciousness of the modem public that 
its products are on shelves in households and its name is part of the lingo. It 
is this pervasiveness that makes the Garou’s fight seem so hopeless. 
192 


Pentex is one of those threats that should never quite fully go away, 
simply due to its sheer scale. A local victory in getting Avalon toys banned 
from stores or having their effects on children studied means nothing to the 
other children across the country who are still being victimized. Ultimately, 
how much of a threat Pentex is and how much it can be dealt with is up to you. 
Winning a few battles may become hollow when someone turns on the TV 
and sees an ad for King Breweries or Cap'n Bill Hallahan. 
Pentex is also not the root of all evil, but it certainly likes to ensure a 
steady supply. Another consideration you the Storyteller should make is how 
much Pentex is involved in the plot. Is its evil influence slowly crushing the 
life out of a town where a subsidiary has a major factory (which supplies most 
of the local jobs)? Is it smaller and subtler, a matter of tainted products sitting 
on household shelves? Pentex and its subsidiaries may only be symptomatic 
of a greater problem, or they may be directly feeding off the misery they create. 
193 


Although the servants of the Wyrmenjoy many awesome powers that are 
“natural” to their forms or else come from Gifts learned from Wyrm-spirits, a 
number of useful items - 
both supernatural and mundane in nature - 
exist 
to make doing the Wyrm’s work easier. This section describes some common 
fetishes, talens, toxins and other trinkets available to those who work to bring 
about the triumph of the Wyrm. 
9et i s he s 
Fallen shapeshifters have their own peculiar fetishes, which they treasure 
and use in the service of the Wyrm (or for their own purposes). Known as Bane 
fetishes, these items do not always contain Banes. Sometimes, the Fallen Ones 
compel other spirits to inhabit and empower these items, thereby reducing the 
power of their enemies - 
the Garou and other Changing Breeds - 
to acquire 
spirits for their own fetishes. Even if the spirit or Bane cooperates, the process of 
empowering a Bane fetish is an involved and excruciatingly complex one that 
twists and corrupts the spirit chosen for the task. 
Gauble 
Fetish Trait Cost: 1 Gnosis: 1 
Spirit Affinity: Attraction, 
Greed 
Buzzards typically create this “pretty-shiny” for the sole purpose of distracting true 
Corm. A Bauble consists of a piece of glass or metal or any other reflective object. 
Empowered by a spirit, the Bauble glows with an unnatural shine bright enough to be 
seen for as far away as a mile, under most conditions. Since most Corax cannot resist 
investigating (and perhaps claiming) shiny objects, they feel compelled to approach 
195 


the Bauble. Not only do Baubles serve to draw Corax away from other, more important 
business, they also provide fallen creatures with the perfect means of luring a hapless 
Corax into an ambush. And if that Corax happens to be guarding a spirit egg.. . 
Unfortunately, Buzzards have problems tearing themselves away from 
Baubles, too, so these fetishes often defeat their purpose. Corax coming upon 
an activated Bauble must win a Willpower Challenge in order to avoid 
focusing on the Bauble. Failure to do so means that the character pays 
attention to the Bauble, ignoring other events around her, until someone 
else forces her attention away from the Bauble, removes the item from the 
character (who will not want to part with it) or destroys the fetish. 
Wrush of the Ancients 
Fetish Trait Cost: 1 Gnosis: 8 
Spirit Affinity: Divination, Art, 
Enigmas 
Created by Black Spiral Dancers, this small paintbrush (also known as an 
Omen Brush) enables the user to paint complex and realistic scenes, drawing upon 
the power of her ancestors. These scenes depict past or future events. In order to 
interpret the painting correctly, the character must spend a Gnosis Trait and win 
a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of seven Traits, retest with Enigmas). If she 
succeeds, the Storyteller may give the character hints regarding the meaning of the 
symbolism, and whether it’s apast or future event. If the player fails, the character 
may “misinterpret” the symbolism or even fail to grasp it altogether. 
Stolen Lye 
Fetish Trait Cost: 1 Gnosis: 2 
Spirit Affinity: Sight, Visions 
Buzzards occasionally acquire these gruesome fetishes and use them to find true 
Corm. Made from the plucked eye of a still-living creature or person, the Stolen Eye 
orients itself so that it “looks” in the direction of the nearest true Corax. To activate 
it, the Buzzard must dip the Eye in salt water and place it on a flat surface. In less than 
a minute, the Eye turns and faces in the direction of the nearest Corax. Stolen Eyes 
last for a month or until the death of the creature it originally belonged to, whichever 
comes first. These items tend to give off a noxious odor as they decay, and, unless 
they are cared for scrupulously by the Buzzard, they have a tendency to get crushed. 
U mbraphone 
Fetish Trait Cost: 1 Gnosis: 3 
Spirit Affinity: Communication 
This fetish resembles a black cellular phone, but in the hands of Black Spiral 
Dancers (particularly those among the Consultants camp), it allows communi- 
cation with those in the Umbra. Special numerical codes make it difficult for 
anyone untrained in its use to use it. Black Spiral characters who receive an 
Umbraphone asagiftorwhoforce thesecretsofitsusefromitsformerownermust 
succeed in a Gnosis Test in order to use it successfully. Characters who acquire 
suchafetishwithoutknowing anything about it may attempt to use it by winning 
a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty is seven Traits, retest with Enigmas) in 
order to decipher its codes. Even if successful, the unfamiliar user has no control 
196 


over who her phone call reaches, which might have unpleasant repercussions for 
the hapless caller. (Storyteller discretion is advised whenever a character 
unfamiliar with an Umbraphone attempts to use it.) 
Wane Lantern 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 5 
Spirit Affinity: Illumination, 
Attraction 
A steel lantern decorated with painted eldritch glyphs and obscene 
runes, the Bane Lantern provides an unnatural purplish light that illuminates 
all spirits struck by its glow, forcing them to become fully visible regardless of 
whether they are in the mortal world or in the Umbra. Fomori or Kami, while 
they appear the same visibly, manifest a spirit-shadow that unmistakably 
reveals their dual nature. The beam acts as an attractor to spirits, drawing 
spirit-creatures in the area to its eerie luminescence. To activate it, the user 
must command the Bane Lantern to ignite, using either the Pictish language 
Black Spiral Dancers or the secret tongue of the Wyrm. No test is required, 
but it is up to the Storyteller to determine whether or not any spirits lurk near 
enough to the Bane Lantern to respond to its compelling gleam. 
m e h i u r n   ask 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 7 
Spirit Affinity: Fear 
This fetish consists of a stone helmet bearing a face plate carved in the 
likeness of some demon or other grotesque creature. Anyone who wears the mask, 
even non-Garou, invoke the Delirium in a targeted individual by the activation 
of this fetish. The victim reacts just as if the wearer were a werewolf in full Crinos 
form, regardless of his normal nature. Since Black Spiral Dancers have little use 
for this fetish, they usually give them as gifts to individuals that have found favor 
with them. Members of other fallen Changing Breeds occasionally find Delirium 
Masks useful as disguises. Many of these fetishes require the expenditure of a 
Willpower Trait, rather than Gnosis, to activate since they are geared toward use 
by non-Garou. The user must spend the appropriate Trait to activate the fetish. 
meoilwhip 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis 6 
Spirit Affinity: Pain, Domina- 
tion 
A thorny, black, 15-foot lash made from the severed tentacle of a Bane, receives 
special treatment so that it remains permanently in the material world. The handle, 
sewn over the tom end of the tentacle, remains slightly sticky to the touch. A lesser 
Bane powers the Devilwhip, and it can animate the fetish on command, wielding the 
whip as if the Black Spiral Dancer commanding the whip were using it. A Devilwhip 
inflicts two health levels of aggravateddamage. Each time it draws blood, it produces 
a sound like manic laughter. The user of the whip must spend a Gnosis Trait to 
activate the whip, and she may attack with the whip in addition to or instead of her 
normal attacks. In addition, the wielder of the Devilwhip may choose to activate the 
whip and crack it in the face of an opponent. If the victim fails a Social Challenge, 
197 


she feels compelled by the whip to prostrate herself on the floor in front of the wielder. 
The target may spend a Willpower Trait to resist this effect. 
@ow er Gog g 1 es 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 3 
Spirit Affinity: Insight, Percep- 
tion 
Originated by Pentex and intended for distribution among that organization’s 
First Teams, this fetish has become available in installations throughout the world. 
As fetishes usable by fomori (who attune to them through a Willpower Test), Power 
Goggles allow the wearer to see Garou who are in the process of crossing the Gauntlet 
from the Penumbra to the material world. The wearer must win a Mental Challenge 
to receive warning of the impending arrival of a Garou from the Umbra. Such a 
warning allows the fomor wearing the Goggles the ability to act before the Garou. 
‘CambertaiPs Heart 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 7 
Spirit Affinity: Danger, Alert- 
ness 
The prototype of this fetish, for which all subsequent examples are named, was 
the preserved heart of a FiannaTheurge. Whenever danger threatens the individual 
attuned to the Heart, the fetish beats spasmodically. The owner of the Heart may 
also command it to drive off hostile spirits. It does so by casting a baleful crimson 
glow and emitting a noise similar to electronic feedback. The user must activate the 
fetish‘s warning capability by spending a Gnosis Trait. To use the Heart to drive off 
spirits, the user must win a Willpower Challenge. Unfriendly spirits in the area must 
win a Mental Challenge versus the user or else flee the area for one hour. 
Umbrascope 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 4 
Spirit Affinity: Sight, Scrying 
Appearing as either a rusty spyglass, a battered pair of opera glasses or a 
much-used set of binoculars, the Umbrascope contains a Scryer Bane bound 
within its material form. The Umbrascope gives its user the ability to peek 
across the Gauntlet and look into the Umbra from the material world. The 
user, therefore, does not have to step sideways to see what is going on in the 
Umbra. To activate the fetish, the user must win a Static Mental Challenge 
versus the Gauntlet rating of the area that she wishes to examine. 
Gut donas 
Fetish Trait Cost: 2 Gnosis: 5 
Spirit Affinity: Bondage, Harm 
This macabre fetish consists of strands of extremely strong gut that can only 
take damage from magic, resisting attempts to cut or burn it by normal means. 
Anyone who struggles against the bonds succumbs to severe nausea unless she 
succeeds in a Static Physical Challenge (difficulty is five Traits, retest with Brawl). 
Even if successful, the bound character may not escape normally, even if she 
possesses Traits that would otherwise allow her to do so. The only way to escape the 
bonds is by undergoing an elaborate series of physical contortions while changing 
198 


forms in a precise order. The character must first assume Crinos form to stretch the 
Gut Bonds. Next, the bound individual must assume either Hispo or Lupus in order 
to slip her head out from the loops of the binding. Glabroor Homid form then allows 
the character to maneuver her lower body through the bindings. Finally, Lupus form 
enables the character to pull her paws loose and free herself. For each step, the 
character must not only assume the necessary form (including the expenditure of 
any appropriate Traits) but also succeed in a Physical Challenge. The character 
takes one health level of aggravated damage for each loss (as her bones break against 
the tight bonds), but she may continue making challenges until she either succeeds 
in freeing herself or becomes incapacitated from too many failures. 
9 r  at er Der miis’ Czhe aretanic Keys 
Fetish Trait Cost: 3 Gnosis 5 Spirit Affinity: Corruption, Temptation 
The PretanicKeys is a 19th-century bookpurporting to containlore concerning 
the forcesofthe Wyrm, includingall its legionsofservitors. Writtenby an individual 
styling himself “Frater Vermiis” (Brother of the Wyrm), this massive tome claims 
to provide instructions on how to channel the unseen powers of the “Black 
Labyrinth.” The gruesome death of the alleged author (in 1892) not only made the 
book notorious in certain circles but also lent credence to the pages’ contents. Only 
92 copies of the book ever existed, and some of those have perished since it was 
written. While the chants, incantations, formulae and other rituals bear little 
resemblance to any real mastery of dark powers, the book itself exercises a miasmic 
lure of corruption over any student of the occult unfortunate enough to find and read 
a copy. For every hour she spends reading the book, a character loses one Willpower 
Trait. She must make a Mental Challenge versus the Storyteller or find herself 
possessed by some Malfean or other Wyrm-tainted spirit for the duration of a scene. 
Black Spiral Dancers occasionally “gift” occultists they have targeted for use with 
a copy of this book. If a character manages to read the entire book (a process which 
takes up an entire session of play), she must make a Gnosis Challenge to resist going 
insane. If she succeeds, the player may add two Traits of Occult to her character’s 
Abilities, but the character becomes susceptible to domination by the Wyrm. 
(The PretanicKeys textmaybefoundinTheChronicleof theBlackLabyrinth.) 
#eathrattler 
Fetish Trait Cost: 3 Gnosis: 6 
Spirit Affinity: Terror 
Formedfromadriedrattle takenfrom a creature resembling arattlesnake (but 
found in certain primitive realms of the Umbra), the Deathrattler can frighten 
away all animals or humans within the range of its sound. The fetish‘s effect on 
normal humans and animals is irresistible, but Garou, members of other Changing 
Breeds or any other sort of supernatural creature must succeed in a Gnosis (or 
Willpower) Test in order to remain in the vicinity of the rattle. Anyone who fails 
such a test must flee the area for 15 minutes or until the scene ends. 
’ 
Warshirt of the W y r m  
Fetish Trait Cost: 3 Gnosis: 6 
Spirit Affinity: Protection 
199 


This leather tunic, decorated with beads and feathers to form eldritch runes 
of protection, gives the wearer three extra health levels which absorb damage 
before the wearer begins to lose her own health levels. The shirt changes form 
along with the wearer, so it is usable in all of a shapeshifter’s forms. After combat, 
the user may recharge the fetish by giving it a point of Gnosis, which restores the 
fetish to its full ability to protect its wearer. If the Warshirt loses all its health 
levels, it screams in agony and blood runs down the outside of the shirt. 
Magic Speroer 
Fetish Trait Cost: 4 Gnosis: 5 
Spirit Affinity: Disease, Fire, 
Toxins 
Fashioned from the skull of a human, homid shapeshifter, young vampire, 
mage or other supernatural “human,” this fetish has a handle atop the skull’s 
cranium allowing for ease of portability. The lower jaw remains attached to the 
skull by leather bands that act as hinges. When commanded to do so by the 
person carrying it, the Magic Spewer vomits forth a stream of noxious, viscous 
slime consisting of toxic waste and other foul and poisonous substances. Anyone 
standing within 15 feet of the fetish‘s face (with the exception of the user), must 
succeed in a Physical Challenge or take two health levels of aggravated damage. 
The fetish‘s eyes glow red when it is active, and its lower jaw moves on its own 
as if conversing with some unseen companion. Anyone hit by the slime also 
manifests a wasting disease that comes to a crisis several weeks later. Even 
vampires, Garou and other disease-resistant creatures are affected by this ailment 
and only Mother‘s Touch, Resist Toxin or some other form of magical healing 
(such as the Discipline of Obeah) can remove the taint of the disease. 
dune klaioe 
Fetish Trait Cost: 5 Gnosis: 7 
Spirit Affinity: Combat, War 
Melee Bonus Traits: 4 
Negative Traits: Heavy (for Homid form 
The Black Spiral Dancers’ equivalent of the grand klaive of the Garou, 
the Baneklaive appears as an intricately tooled sword-length weapon en- 
graved with contorted runes and gleaming with pale green balefire whenever 
activated. For purposes of inflicting damage, the Baneklaive counts as a silver 
weapon and also gives off the emanation of the Wyrm. (An opponent must 
spend a Willpower Trait in order to face an opponent wielding a Baneklaive 
unless he is equipped with agrand klaive or its equivalent.) Besides containing 
a spirit of war or combat, a Baneklaive usually contains a second spirit which 
empowers the fetish weapon with a Charm of some sort (usually one typical 
of Bane spirits). The Black Spiral Dancer who possesses such a fetish can also 
use it to siphon Gnosis from spirits for his own use. If the user of a Baneklaive 
injures a spirit in Umbral combat, causing at least one health level of damage 
or draining even one point of Power from the spirit, he may make a Gnosis 
Test. Success gives the user an additional point of Gnosis taken from the 
wounded spirit. This power may only be used once during a single scene. 
200 
only) 


Churjuroc’s Cusk 
Fetish Trait Cost: 5 Gnosis: 9 
Spirit Affinity: Nexus Crawl- 
ers, Sacrifice 
A blackish-purple tusk that once belonged to a gigantic tusked wormlike 
minion of the Wyrm. Legends says that the Black Spiral Dancers once fought gladly 
alongside Churjuroc until the mindless creature turned on them to assuage its 
uncontrollable hunger. After a long, hard battle, the Black Spiral Dancers destroyed 
their former ally and took the tusks from its four mouths. Only seven of these fetishes 
remain in existence. The tusk is about two feet long, and it bears a platinum ball- 
cap on one end. Intricate carvings of an especially perverse nature decorate its 
length. Once every full moon, the tusk, when activated, summons aNexus Crawler. 
This creature needs a sacrifice (usually of a Garou) in order to resist taking the life 
of the summoner. Once provided with its payment, the Nexus Crawler carries out 
one task for its summoner, as long as that task can be completed within 24 hours. 
Soul Ruby 
Fetish Trait Cost: 5 Gnosis: 7 
Spirit Affinity: Prophecy, 
Knowledge 
Cut from the veins ofrock at the heart of the Black Spiral Dancers’ subterranean 
Pits, this ruby, the size of a woman’s fist, possesses intrinsic value for its size alone. Its 
trueworth-andwhatmakesitafetish-liesinthefactthattheSoulRubycontains 
the captive spirit of a fallen Black Spiral Dancer. When activated, the Soul Ruby 
speaks telepathically to its user, providing her with whatever h
e
 
Traits the spirit 
possessed in life. The spirit may also provide the user with visitations in dreams, 
providing shadowy glimpses of the future. The user spends a point of Gnosis to 
activate the Soul Ruby. The information it receives is up to the Storyteller, but it 
should be comparable in importance and value to the cost of the fetish. 
‘Zalens 
Similar to fetishes, talens differ in that they are single-use items that do 
not survive activation, See Laws of the Wild for rules on using talens. 
@retunic Calisman (3 uses per Fetish Trait spent) 
Gnosis: 4 
This talisman is a physical key that contains one of the 99 names of the Wyrm’s 
minions. Black Spiral Dancers possessing such a talen may open a gate one of the 
Malfean realms, allowing a creature to come through from beyond. In order to 
activate the den, the user must meditate on the name of the key, spend a Gnosis 
Trait and succeed in a Gnosis Test. The user may spend additional Gnosis Traits to 
increase the power of the creature summoned, but the attending risk increases the 
likelihood that the creature will not regard the summoner with favor. When the 
creature appears, the summoner must succeed in a Mental Challenge against the 
summonedspirit. Failure means that thespirit either attacks the summoner or returns 
to its home. When the summoner has exhausted the key’s uses, it disappears through 
Spirit Affinity: The Wyrm 
201 


-///- 
a rift in the Gauntlet, to appear somewhere else for someone else to find and attune 
himself to. 
Bean-Bane 
Gnosis: 7 
Appearing as a small dried bean of any kind, this talen contains a dormant 
Bane. To activate it, the owner of the talen must plant it in soil, mud or clay. This 
action destroys the talen and frees the Bane, which usually agrees to provide one 
service for the one who gave it the ability to manifest in the physical world. The 
Bane’s ability to do so lasts for one scene per point of Gnosis given it by the one 
who planted the Bean. After that time, the Bane returns to the Umbra. 
Spirit Affinity: Bane spirits 
aragon’s Ichor 
Gnosis: 5 
Spirit Affinity: Warding 
Black blood taken from some powerful Wyrm-creature and preserved in a 
dark-colored, specially treated glass jar or vial, Dragon’s Ichor affords strong 
protection to a creature who rubs the gelatinous blood over his entire body. 
Doing so renders the user invulnerable to all attacks from spirits for the duration 
of one trip into the Umbra (or one scene, whichever is most appropriate). Each 
vial or jar of Dragon’s Ichor contains enough for only two uses. 
Goblin Ale 
Gnosis: 4 
Spirit Affinity: Hallucinations, Drunkenness 
An alcoholic beverage acquired by trading with the Shadow Court’s goblin 
brewers, one quaff of this potent brew inflicts violent hallucinations upon the 
imbiber, occasionally shifting a Garou into the Umbra involuntarily. The Garou 
must succeed in a Gnosis Test to avoid crossing the Gauntlet unexpectedly after 
drinking goblin ale. The slightest slip of goblin ale renders the drinker totally drunk, 
though he may spend a Willpower Trait to resist for one minute (long enough to lie 
down or move away from a potentially dangerous situation). Garou under the 
influence of Goblin Ale are also more likely to frenzy, so they must spend a Willpower 
Trait to resist doing so at the slightest provocation. The effects of Goblin Ale last for 
one scene (which may be an entire moot). Goblin Ale is a favorite beverage at Black 
Spiral Dancer moots and at gatherings of other fallen Changing Breeds. 
Storm in a Bottle 
Gnosis: 6 
An opaque bottle, sometimes made of wave-patterned milky glass, this talen 
contains an entire Wyrrn-tainted storm within it. Once unleashed by opening the 
bottle (and running away), the storm lashes across both the material world and the 
Penumbra. Although it lasts for only one scene before dissipating as suddenly as it 
began, the storm delivers a lightning strike to any of the Wyrm’s enemies in its vicinity 
unless they manage to reach shelter within one combat turn. The victim may make 
a Physical Test to see if she can avoid the lightning strike, which does three health 
levels of aggravated damage. Only one lighming bolt will strike any given victim. 
202 
Spirit Affinity: Fury, Storm 
7/7-- 
-7 


W y r m -Woo3 
Gnosis: 3 
Spirit Affinity: Protection 
This blackened, unnatural-looking vine grows in caverns deep below the 
surface of the earth, absorbing the light of balefires that glow underground. If 
enough of this substance is collected to form a bonfire-size pyre, its noxious 
smell, when ignited, will protect all within the range of its odor from attacks 
by all sorts of spirits, regardless of their power. 
8 a  1 e fir e 
Few substances reek of the Wyrm like this foul material. Some Pentex 
scientists believe it to be the corrupted material of the spirit world. It appears 
to be greenish flames with the consistency of molten wax, bubbling and 
roiling and glowing with an internal incandescence. 
The name is believed to come from the fae’s word for their Beltaine beacon 
fires, a word that the White Howlers surely knew and took with them after their 
fall. Black Spiral Dancers today may sit before a balefire’s glow, staring into its 
depths in the hope ofgaining mystical insights. What they usually get instead are 
brain tumors, but even these are considered a form of corrupt enlightenment. 
Balefire bums like regular fire. Because of its substance, it can be used like 
napalm, although handling it is extremely dangerous. Any damage balefire inflicts 
is always aggravated, it takes twice as long to heal, and it is twice as likely to leave 
a battle scar. If a werewolfwants to avoid the damage, Resist Toxin should be used. 
Coxins 
In addition to Gnosis-powered devices such as fetishes and talens, 
creatures of the Wyrm often use poisons to carry out their master’s purposes 
or to protect themselves from their myriad enemies. Toxins are not usually 
part of a character’s beginning equipment, though they may be acquired 
during play according to the discretion of the Storyteller. Most often, 
characters will need to resist these substances when used against them. 
fonone Gas 
Rank One 
Vector: Inhaled 
Effects: Extracted from violets, ionone works extremely well against Garou 
and other creatures with a highly developedsense of smell. This gas short-circuits 
the odor-sensing abilities of anyone who inhales it. The effects last for one hour, 
and it can prevent the use of Gifts that rely on scent-related sensory input, such 
as Heightened Senses, Scent of the True F m  and similar Gifts. This gas does not 
block the Sense Wyrm Gift, however, since the Gift does not actually rely on 
physical odds. Anyone caught in the vicinity of this gas when it is released must 
succeed at a Physical Test or succumb to its effects for one hour of game time. 
Protection: Don’t inhale it. 
203 


~ i s s  
of the Wyrm 
Rank Four 
Vector: Injected 
Effects: A yellowish liquid used with adart pistol or rifle, this experimen- 
tal toxin heightens feelings of bloodlust and paranoia, causing anyone hit 
with it to frenzy without provocation. Pentex is still in the process of studying 
the optimally effective dose that will drive a Garou to uncontrollable frenzy 
without killing it outright. Placed in a capsule attached to weapons that 
propel darts, the capsule releases the serum upon contact, poisoning the 
target’s blood or muscle tissue. Shapeshifters, vampires and other creatures 
capable of frenzying will do so if struck with the Kiss of the Wyrm. A victim 
may make a Physical Challenge in an attempt to dodge the dart. If struck, a 
Garou may spend a Willpower Trait to resist the toxin for a scene while she 
attempts to receive some sort of healing, such as Resist Toxin. Other super- 
natural creatures may also spend Willpower Traits to resist the effects, but 
they may need to find some other appropriate form of supernatural purifica- 
tion to rid themselves of the effects of the Kiss of the Wyrm. 
Protection: Armor, Resist Toxin 
Tear Gas 
Rank Two 
Vector: Contact/Inhaled 
Effects: This colorless gas has a distinct, sour odor. When inhaled, it 
causes coughing, gagging and irritation of the mucous membranes. When it 
makes contact with delicate parts of the body, such as eyes, it causes extreme 
discomfort and temporary blindness from stimulation of tear ducts. Victims 
caught in the area of this gas lose the use of all combat-related Physical Traits, 
and they can only attempt a Physical Challenge to escape the vicinity. 
Protection: A gas-mask gives full protection. Other masks, such as scuba 
masks, protect the eyes. Breathing through a wet cloth protects the lungs. 
Resist Toxin and similar Gifts provide full protection. 
Mustarb Gas 
Rank Three 
Vector: Contact/Inhaled 
Effects: This caustic, faintly yellowish gas exudes a distinctive odor 
reminiscent of mustard. If an individual inhales the gas, she suffers blisters in 
her lungs and takes two health levels of damage. Contact with the skin 
delivers one health level of damage from blistering. In humans and creatures 
without recourse to magical healing, damage to the lungs is permanent and, 
if enough damage is accumulated, fatal. Skin blisters heal normally over time. 
Magical healing can eliminate all the damage, even to the lungs. Mustard gas 
has been outlawed as a weapon by international treaties, and its use might 
provoke attention from a number of interested, and powerful, parties. 
204 


Protection: Full-skin coverage and a gas mask provide full protection. Ordi- 
nary clothing protects for one turn only. Resist Toxin also provides full protection. 
Meroe Agent (Sarin) 
Rank Five 
Vector: Contact/Inhaled 
Effects: This colorless, odorless gas inflicts one health level of aggravated 
damage per turn. It causes nausea and disorientation, followed by seizures and 
death. Only immediate hospitalization, the use of healing Gifts or other types 
of magical healing can prevent the inexorable spread of the effects. Sarin is 
SO dangerous that even Pentex issues it only under extreme circumstances. 
Protection: Sealed NBC suit; remaining in a totally sealed, locked room 
away from the release of the gas. 
Antidote: Atropine Injection Kit. Note that atropine taken without the 
presence of sarin is itself a potentially fatal toxin. Rumors circulate that 
Pentex has engineered a form of nerve gas that atropine only partly works 
against, providing only a few hours of life for the victim. 
Fomorol 
Rank Three 
Vector: Injected 
Effects: Constituted from the bodies of recycled fomorach, fomorol 
temporarily boosts the powersoffomori injected by it. After injection, afomor 
must make a Willpower Test to access the drug. If successful, the fomor finds 
all his Traits doubled for the length of time the drug is in his system. One use 
creates an immediate and powerful addiction, thus ensuring that the fomor 
never leaves the service of his supplier. 
Protection: none 
A r sena! 
Weapons and armor available to most characters (and their antagonists) are 
detailed in other Mind's Eye Theatre books. Here are a few specially tailored items 
for servitors of the Wyrm. These are usually found in the hands of First Teams, not 
street gangs. Pentex takes very good care of its toys, and news of agang with a balefire 
flame-thrower will ensure that werewolves are the least of the gang's worries. 
Sub-mer mal qabio 
Pentex operatives sometimes receive implants in the base of their skulls 
consisting of a miniaturized radio transmitter and receiver. These subdermal radios 
allow members of Pentex teams to communicate among themselves discreetly within 
a 25-mile radius. The radio frequency shunts up and down the available bands, 
making unauthorized reception nearly impossible. Operatives may shut the radio off 
at will, but Pentex can, of course, reactivate the radio without the knowledge of their 
operative, thus affording the ability to monitor the actions of its agents in the field. 
205 


A very few of these devices have fallen into the hands of monkeywrencher Garou, 
causing Pentex to step up its efforts to refine these items. Individuals outfitted with 
Sub-Dermal Radios can speak with each other without being overheard by those 
around them, even if an individual is standing within arm’s length of the speaker. 
dous Armor 
This armor functions as Kevlar in that it soaks one health level of damage. 
When the outer part, however, is punctured or pierced by claws, teeth or bullets, 
the armor oozes a highly infectious pus that sprays out in an arc that extends six 
feet from the puncture. The pus causes one health level of aggravated damage to 
unprotected skin it touches. The victim may attempt a Physical Challenge to 
dodge the pus. Only magical healing can remove the damage, which increases 
by one health level per day as the pus eats deeper into the skin, eventually killing 
the victim unless treated. Cutting out the ulceration is possible, but the affected 
creature cannot repair the damage done (which may include loss of body parts), 
and she takes as much damage again as she received from the pus. 
Health Level: One 
Negative Traits: Clumsy 
Availability: Pentex 4 
Silver Mitrate Hollowpoints 
Hollow-point bullets filled with silver nitrate, this form of ammunition not 
only explodes inside the wound when it impacts, it also releases its deadly 
contents into the system of the victim. While harmful to any creature, these 
bullets cause extra damage to Garou who are not in their breed form (or to metis 
who are in their breed form), causing one health level of aggravated damage per 
turn for three turns as it courses through the system of the affected creature. The 
wounds only respond to magical healing such as Mother’s Touch or Resist Toxin 
(the latter destroys the poison but does not heal damage already taken). 
Availability: Pentex 5 (need-to-have only), Hunters 5 
&alefire glume-throruer 
Resembling a conventional flame-thrower, this device emits a stream of 
semi-liquid balefire to a range of 30 feet. The shooter must spend a Willpower 
Trait to focus the weapon properly and succeed in a standard Physical Test to 
strike his target. The victim may attempt a Physical Challenge to dodge the 
liquid. Failure to do so means that the victim receives a coating of the balefire 
and takes two health levels of aggravated damage. Resist Toxin protects a target 
from the effects. Each unit may be used six times before it needs to be refilled. 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Black Spiral Dancers 3, Pentex 4, Hunters 5 
206 
