/e 
1 


ir 
.' , i' 
/- 
B 
I 
l
i
 
I 1  
ISBN 1-56504-778-8 
WW5402 $7.95 U.S. 
5 0 7 9 5  


Ken “Snakes and Ladders” Cliffe, for that last bit of perspective. 
0 
1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Reproduction without 
the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes 
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, 
which may be reproduced for personal use 
only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquer- 
ade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the 
Ascension and World of Darkness are reg- 
istered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
LZpocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, 
rrinity, Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal, Oblivion, The Shining Host and The Changeling 
Players Guide are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All 
:haracters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a 
zhallenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical 
md supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. 
Reader discretion is advised. 
735 PAIN NORTH B ~ D .  
SUITE 128 
lHRK$TON, GA 30021 
USA 
C A M [  S T U D I O  
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN THE USA. 


;
W O R D E R O M T H E  
DEVELOPER 
4 
T H E  
CURRENT 
THINKING 
5 
DEADGUY 
SPEAKS 
8 
T H E  EVOLUTION 
0 E M I N D ’ S  EYE THEATRE 
14 
AT H O M E W I T H T H E  
CAMARILLA 
1 8  
IE I T  IS BROKE 
26 
O N E  WORLD 
2 8  
Anotefrommeonthepurposeandgoalsofthismagazineaswellaswhat 
toexpectherein. 
An opinion forum from Mind’s Eye players on issues of interest. 
A column from Rich Dansky, former MET developer, on pretty much whatever 
he feels like talking about. 
A glance at how the systems and world of Mind’s Eye have changed and gotten 
better with time. 
The inside dirt on what the Camarilla fan club is, where it came from and what 
it’s all about, written by its own Director of Public Relations. 
Aguide topullinganailingstorybackfrom the brink(orjustover theedge) ofdisaster. 
A piece in a similar vein as the Camarilla’s, this time from inside the One World 
by Night organization. 
N U N N E H I E O R T H E  
SHIN IN^ HOST 
3 8  
Who were the people of Concordia before the settlers came? Become part of their 
world, or one of the people yourself, in your Shining Host LARP chronicle. 
R A M P I N G  Up 
49 
E I C T I O N :  “ A  POSITION 
o E S T R E N ~ T H ”  
56 
MAYDAY! PART 
I I :  DEPLOYMENT 
66 
E R E Q U E N T L Y  ASKED 
QUESTIONS 
7 2  
EVENT HORIZON: 
UPCOMING 
L A R P  EVENTS 
76 
A look at how to take those first fateful steps in designing your own LARP chronicle. 
by Yours Truly. 
The next segment of the first live-action storyline for Oblivion that will impact 
all of Stygia. 
T A B L E O f  CONTENTS 
6 


WORD FROM THE DFVFLODFR 
WELCOME 
TO THE 
Mind’s sye 
T h e atre J o urnal ! 
Welcome back, everybody, to the second issue of the MET Journal. And for 
those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second to acquaint you 
with just what you’ve got here. 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps in your 
White Wolf LARP environment. We offer rules for new character types, original 
storylines to work into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games under control 
and running smoothly and rules updates you won’t find in any other Mind’s Eye 
release. Plus, you’ll find answers to the questions that have plagued your chronicles 
(Why are so m n y  Changeling birthrights changedinto Merits and Flaws in The Shining 
Host!), original World of Darkness fiction and columns from those who’ve been 
there (wherever there is) and survived to tell the tale. The Journal is packed with 
facts and guides that expand upon what’s published in the MET books. 
In this issue, we have a chat with the spokespeople of two of the largest live- 
action roleplaying organizations in the world, look into some of the legwork that goes 
into setting up a successful, long-running LARP chronicle and delve into the 
particulars of creating Nunnehi changelings for MET’S The Shining Host. And 
that’s just a sample of what’s in store for you here. We’ve also got an Oblivion 
adventure that will rock your whole shadowed world, a look at how MET has 
changed since its inception and more. 
In future issues, we’ll look into one of Atlanta’s own oldest and largest indepen- 
dent LARP organizations, ways to keep problem players under control, a word or two 
on the state of MET from Cynthia Summers (the Mind’s Eye developer here) and 
anything else you might need to round out your live-action chronicle. 
And you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on your 
opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us questions about 
the features and rules you see here and about the broken rules you might come across 
in different MET publications. Send us horror stories of games gone wrong and how 
your players’ characters fixed them. We’re interested in all aspects of live-action 
roleplaying, and we want to know what you think. 
Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; we’ve got 
something for everybody. And if we don’t have it yet, let us know. We’ll get it for you. 
Carl Bowen, Developer 
carlawhite-wolf. corn 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal Developer 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 USA 


THF CURRFNT 
T H I N K I N G  
J 
Ah.. . conflict. If nothing else, that’s what this section is here for. Sort of a cross 
between a round-table discussion and a WWF cage-match, this is the place to hash out 
MET issues rangingfiom licensing to rule-brokenness to LARPingstyle . Give me your 
opinions, respond to opinions you see here, bnbe me just to get your name in print, 
whatewer.]ustkeepitrelativelyclean, andstay offthe badsideofthepeople youdisagree 
with. After all, that keen-edged rapier wit is designed for each others’ arguments and 
opinions, not for each others’ personal liwes. 
I 
As this hotbed of conflict and contention (just kidding) opens, we find letters 
on all manner of subjects. Live-action gamers are at no loss for words when it 
comes to their opinions over LARPing (as many of you can easily attest). This 
first letter deals with general concerns one finds in any LARP situation, and it 
boils down to mechanics versus gameplay. 
First of all, [rules] simplicity is no guarantee of quality. The support of 
roleplaying over mechanics has always been, in my opinion, in the hands of the 
players more than anything. The Storytellers in a respective LARP can certainly 
assist or interfere but this is usually secondary. 
I think [creating a character to exploit the rules or benefit from a loophole in the 
rules] makes for odd reasoning to play at all. As a good friend of mine has said a number 
of times, “Why play something you don’t enjoy?” Some people get enjoyment from 
tackling the big boys in-game, from arbitrating odd and complicated rules or from 
simply playing a Vampire character they know will never be prince. The point is to 
design a character that will be fun to play and let the rules concerns come second. 
- 
Scott McDaniel 
Atlanta Interactive Theater Storyteller 
This next letter deals with the issue of crossover games and how well LARPs 
are suited to deal with the unique problems inherent to them. 
I have been playing WoD games for upward of five years, give or take, and after all 
that time, I’ve finally come to the conclusion that there is not asingle element about one 
line that prevents crossover. In fact, I think that all of the lines belong in the WoD and 
can be treated as equally important. The only line that has ANY trouble with crossovers 
is Vampire (including Kuei-jin) because of the whole ‘‘I can only play at night” problem. 
The other four (Werewolf, Mage, Wraith andchangeling) work perfectly well together. 
I am currently running a chronicle that includes everything in it. The only 
restriction that I put on the players was that they had to play something that could 
do stuff both during the day and the night. Outside of that, I let them play anything. 
Everything runs together pretty smoothly, too. I’m not going to lie and say it’s easy, 
but it’s not particularly difficult either. It’s just a matter of taking a little extra time 
and research to put the pieces together. I haven’t had to invoke the Golden Rule 
either, at least not in order to have one “race” be able to function with another. 
Sheer “gunslinging” ability isn’t all that goes into a game being balanced. Most 
starting Garou could wipe the floorwith most startingvampires. But that is definitely 
a minor exaggeration on the truth. Not all Garou are Get of Fenris/ Red Talon type 
characters. Not all Garou have incredible strength in Crinos. Not all vampires are 
[wusses] when it comes to combat (the Brujah are a prime example, although the 
Gangrel and Nosferatu also fight well), and so it is possible, with some Potence, and 


maybe a little Celerity or Fortitude, for a vampire to best a Garou in combat. However, 
a clever vampire will easily be able to overcome the ferocious Garou with a well 
placed use of Dominate or Presence, make him go mad and attack his own pack with 
Dementation or something equally heinous. Vampires, unlike most Garou, don’t rely 
solely on power to win their victories. They have more subtle ways of doing things. 
A similar argument could be made for mages vs. vampires. (Provided a live- 
action Mage system even existed, of course.) The mage is actually at a slight 
disadvantage against other supernaturals in that he can’t just do shit and not suffer 
any immediate consequences. Paradox should keep him in line enough (if he’s smart 
anyway) so that the playing field is level when he deals with other supematurals. Just 
because the mage can shape reality doesn’t mean he’s invulnerable, or that his mind 
is made of iron. The vampire still has the options of Dominate and Presence at his 
disposal. Plus, this time the vampire will potentially be stronger than the mage is 
(and he won’t have to worry about that mage regenerating damage, either). 
So, in my opinion, the systems [for tabletop and, by extension, live-action] are 
balanced. Each character type has its own strengths and its own weaknesses. Starting 
mages are not gods, vampires are not wusses, and, despite first-edition rules, 
werewolves are not indestructible. 
All that being said, why not cross the genres over? 
- 
Gregory Plunkett 
Not written in direct response to Gregory’s letter, though certainly in the 
same vein, comes this letter from a former Athens by Night LARP Storyteller. 
Alright, here’s my opinion of different participants in a WoD LARP. First off, 
given enough time, rules can be created [to translate] any tabletop system. The 
limitations I see present between the different inhabitants of the WoD aren’t 
mechanical at all. The limitation is also not your ability to get all of these inhabitants 
in one area. Anybody could do so if they created a background rich enough. The 
limitation, which I think is fundamental, is the fact that once you’ve got all of these 
groups in the room together with their rules that are easy to use and understandable, 
what do you, as a Storyteller, do with them? 
I’m not going to try and say what they “should do” because players always have 
a knack for explaining why they’re the exception. However, I’m going to watch as 
the Garou travel into the Umbra to wage their wars. I’m going to see the mages 
disappear. The wraiths will never appear except in rooms where others won’t be 
present. Changelings will do whatever it is changelings do. Vampires will try to 
figure out who’s in charge and go from there for the rest of eternity. 
Essentially, to do any of the inhabitants justice the game must be focused to 
them. The Garou deserve their own game for the Umbra alone. Mages deserve their 
own game because the ST’s need to spend their time worrying about Paradox. 
Vampires deserve their own game because they’re prone to creating international 
effects. That’s the limitation of these different worlds. They’re so interesting, so 
intricate, so demanding that as an ST trying to create a cohesive game, you 
accomplish nothing by spreading the population out.. .. 
The writer then went on, a bit later, to expound upon the phenomenon of 
LARPers forming into cliques that appear in games as groups of related characters. 
. . .While I try to make my associations in game as much as I can, I would be lying 
if I said some outside consideration isn’t given. In truth, it doesn’t hurt anything for 
me. Sure, I might suddenly just be ‘buddying’ up to somebody but I think that has a 
real world image to it. Sometimes, you just start naturally close to somebody. This 
behavior [in LARPers] certainly shouldn’t be demonized. 


As to ‘groups’ of people, well it’s a game and you want to enjoy yourself. 
Sometimes you just want to be with your friends and you use the game as a social 
outlet. I’ve got no problem with that. Way back in the day I played this game simply 
soIcouldspendsome timewithmy friendsandrelax. It’snotso badifamassofpeople 
come in together, knowing and working with each other. It certainly doesn’t detract 
frommy rp’ing experience. In the end, I’m not going to go out of my way to draw such 
a black and white line between oog and ig. Personally, it’s something that happens 
in LARPs where people are doing their best to have a good time. 
- 
Ryan Vila 
Athens by Night Storyteller 
Returning to the idea of character versus wad-0-Traits, Phil Clippinger had 
this (among other notable bits) to say... 
Knowing too much about the powers of other characters is the fundamental 
cause of Live-Action-MUDding. (I cannot say that I am wholly innocent of said 
crime, but for about a year I’ve been reformed.) The whole purpose of “Role Playing” 
is that you, as a player, adopt a character’s “role”, and “play” through it in the story. 
What defines your character? Is it the fact that he was raised in the slums of 
Montreal by a submissive, weak mother and a father who beat her to alleviate his 
frustrations from working a dead-end minimum wage job, up until the point that a 
Pander embraced you to see how you would turn out? Did he go on to join the Sabbat 
of Montreal, but find that their sadistic, self-loathing ways were only grotesque 
facsimiles of his mortal father’s actions? When he left them all behind and started 
to wander the United states, did they hunt him? Why did he come to [the city he now 
calls home]? What are his feelings about the Camarilla? Is he here in hopes that the 
Montreal Sect won’t look for him in a Cam town, or is he inclined to follow the ideals 
of the Camarilla? Or does he see the hypocrisy in this system as well? Are these the 
kind of qualities that define your character? Or is it the fact that he was ghouled so 
he has Cekrity, Potence and Fortitude, and then he got Embraced so now he’s got 
access to Thaumaturgy, Dominate, and Auspex, and even gets his generation for free? 
If you’ve got a good character, you shouldn’t have to worry about your Traits and 
Abilities. And you certainly shouldn’t worry about the Traits and Abilities of others. 
Ok, you saw Joe Brujah kick some ass at the last gather. You’re not going to get into 
it with him. That’s fair. Steve and Dave Brujah kicked some ass too. Maybe you 
shouldn’t [mess] with the Brujah on a whole. You don’t know exactly what they 
have the potential to do, you just know what you’ve seen them do. 
- 
Phil ClippingeI 


Ocean at Cypncc. He has deweeloped Mind’s Eye 
Theatre, Wraith: The Oblivion and Vam- 
pire: The Dark Ages. Watc 
showcase Rich’s unique imight 
life in general, and (should we 
on Mind’s Eye Theatre 
I ’LL STAY Up I N T H E  HELICOPTER 
WHILE 
J I M  C ~ O E S A N D  
WRESTLESTHE 
T W I N K T O T H E   ROUND 
? 
Or 
flUNNY HOW EVERYONE 
KNOWS 
O N E  Of THESE 
q W S ,  AIN’T I T.  
This issue’s column was supposed to be about, among other things, elves in barns, but 
someone got me a whole set of writer’s blocks for Hanukkah (they’re a lot like Legos, only 
the baby’s a lot less likely to eat them). As a result, that essay’s in mangled ruins somewhere 
in the overgrown recesses of my hard drive. 
Instead, this time around you get the result of my observations of years of LARPing. 
Ladies, gentlemen and Salubri were-rabbit abominations (thank you, Clayton Oliver), I 
present for your edification and amusement: The Mind’s Eye Theatre Bestiary. 
(Note: This has nothing, nothing to do with the Bygone Bestiary. Anyone who wants 
MET statistics for a Sea Bishop needs to stop playing with his mail-order brine shrimp, right 
now. Put the Sea Monkeys down and back.. . away.. . slowly.) 
A final caveat: The critters described here are rare but easily identifiable. They move 
among the vast majority of Mind’s Eye Theatre players like killer whales through a medium- 
sized bowl of ramen, instantly recognizable as being something Other. Most games have at 
least one of these guys running around; some have the full menagerie. To their credit, the 
vast majority ofMind’s Eye Theatre players simply work around these roleplaying menhirs; 
it’s just that occasionally, like the Grand Canyon, they present insurmountable obstacles. 
In any case, here’s a guide to recognizing these behemoths of the LARP scene, 
including percentage in lair and treasure ty- 
err, is that the legal department on the phone? 
Hang on, I’ll be right back. In the meantime, enjoy. 
T H E  
”WINK 
Quote: I use Forces 3, Entropy 9, Celenty, my twin silwer-handled katanas and my Cnnos 
Character Concept Bigger, better, faster, more! Umm, and some more after that! 
Appearance: TheTwinkusuallydoesn’t botherwith much in thewayofcostuming. After 
all, he’s got Massive Cosmic Powers at his beck and call, so he doesn’t need to dress up. When 
you’re the ultimate force of destruction, you can dress casual and get away with it. 
Natural Habitat: Elysium. w h y ?  Because if the Twink has managed to finagle a way to 
get his Risen Euthanatos MokolE kinfolk character past the local Storyteller (usually by 
form to cut to the front of the line and order a cheeseburger. 


hitting said, Storyteller on the back of the head repeatedly with a skillet and taking the wobbly 
bobbing motion that results as anod of approval), he knows that someone else has done it, too! 
And that someone else might be able to, somehow, in some way, defeat his Immortal Kuei- 
jin Diabolist Baali-Tremere crossbreed. Ergo, he’s going to stay where it’s safe. 
Notes: The Twink is motivated by two forces: the desire to avoid character death at 
all costs and the desire to let everyone else know exactly how butch his character really is. 
As a result, you will often see the Twink using Disciplines left, right and center to do things 
like open doors, rearrange geraniums and the like. Mysteriously, though, he never runs out 
of Blood or Willpower Traits by doing so. Fascinating. 
T H E  CHAINSAW 
Quote: I kill you. And you. And you. And hey, you, over there -in 
the green shirt. Yeah, 
I kill you, too. You’re here to read the meter? Screw it, I kill you anyway. 
Concept: To make like Ozymandias, only without all that boring looking on works and 
despairing stuff, you know? 
Appearance: The Chainsaw exists to kill, and the sheer number of weapons draped off 
his costume (usually lifted from Clint Eastwood by way of post-Highlander Christopher 
Lambert) makes this abundantly clear. Broad-brimmed hats are de rigeur. A rare subspecies 
prefers to use no weapons at all, relying instead on innate powers. Such creatures are thought 
to be the result of Chainsaw-Twink crossbreeding, though reliable reports indicate that 
each partner tries to kill the other immediately after the consummation of such a union. 
Natural Habitat: Chainsaws can be found at the entrance to most games, mentally tallying 
new players for later identification and extermination. Chainsaws can also be found at the front 
of most Blood Hunts and leading the list of converts during the inevitable “Sabbat infiltration” 
plotline, believing that getting whacked on the head with a shovel grants them a license to kill. 
Notes: The Chainsaw is not evil, merely misguided; he thinks that racking up a body 
count is a form of roleplaying. He sees himself as the Darwinian scourge of the LARP, 
weeding out the weak so that stronger character concepts may survive and prosper. He fills 
the role of.. . oh, who am I trying to kid with this crap! He’s a weenie. Get 30 Terrified 
Newbies to gang-tackle him, then steal his stuff. 
T H E  TERRIEIED 
NEWBIE 
Quote: I, umm, I’m not really sure what’s going on, err, umm, so could you, umm, tell me 
what, e m ,  oh, never mind. 
Concept: The Terrified Newbie has no idea what’s going on around him. This is 
perfectly understandable for someone at his first game, but this guy’s been doing it for three- 
and-a-half years. 
Appearance: A cape. The Terrified Newbie always wears a cape. Hopefully he’s 
wearing something else underneath it. 
Natural Habitat: The Terrified Newbie rotates on a seasonal cycle (read: every 15 
minutes) between the check-in table and the deepest, darkest comer of the game site, there 
to quiver in helpless confusion. Occasionally, this lemming-like journey takes the Terrified 
Newbie through actual gameplay, which inevitably screeches to a halt as aresult ofquestions 
like “Which one is rock, again?” 
Notes: The Terrified Newbie has no actual interest in playing, merely in attaching himself, 
lamprey-like, to some kind soul foolish enough to offer a few minutes to help out. What the 
Terrified Newbie craves is attention, and he will go so far as to self-trepanate to avoid actually 
learning what’s going on (and thus being forced to do something silly like, oh, I dunno, play). 
Quote: So I based my character -she’s 
a Malkavian, you know - 
on Elmo. Tickle me. 
T H E  CUTE NUTBALL 


Concept: Horror wears flannel pajamas with feeties! 
Appearance: Fuzzy slippers and/ or teddy bears. Need I say more? 
Natural Habitat: Cute Nutballs generally prowl the corridorsof agame to see and be seen. 
They do, to their credit, interact on a regular basis with other players. Unfortunately, most 
seem compelled to use accents straight out of The House at Pooh Comer when doing so. 
Notes: The Cute Nutball often bases her character around the regression motif, i.e., 
‘‘I was Embraced while watching Rugrats” or “I may have been Embraced at age 38, but I 
really wanted it to happen while I was watching Rugrats.” Many of them are excellent 
roleplayers within a very limited range. The problem is that Cute Nutballs tend to travel in 
packs (or perhaps to generate spontaneously), meaning that the incautious LARPer is liable 
to find himself knee-deep in what looks like vampiric daycare. 
Addendum: The occasional Cute Nutball eschews the pajamas look for schoolgirl 
outfits. The less said of the effect this has on the local pathetic lech population, the better. 
T H E  
STORYTELLER’S 
S. 0 .  
Quote: How much longer is this going to take? Umm, I’m the.. . Seneschal? Honey, what’s 
Concept: If I actually spend my Saturday night doing this, he owes me big time. 
Appearance: Completely and utterly bored. The blase expression generally changes to 
a look of sheer panic if it looks like one of those mutant freaks in black is going to come up 
and talk to her. 
Natural Habitat Anywhere but a LARP. With return visits, she risks conversion to 
her S.O.’s cape-flaunting ways, so she’ll do everything in her power to make sure she never, 
ever comes back again. 
a Nosefur Achoo, and why is it trying to get my phone number? 
And yes, she’s read Lysistraata. 
Notes: She’s a nice, normal human being with outside interests who’s willing to put up 
I repeat: Once. Try to make her do it more than once and she evolves into a new species, 
with her S.O.’s weird Vampire habit thingie whatever - 
once. 
the Storyteller’s Ex. 


T H E  
M.OCKER 
Quote: This isallso h e a n d  pathetic. Running 
around and premdmg you’re uampires. You guys 
haw no soclal skiUs. Me? Oh, I’m going to go home 
and& “Resident Annoyance” for nine hotm snaiRfit. 
Concept: He don’t need no steeenkin’ 
concept; he ain’t playing. 
Appearance: The Mocker is dressed like 
most of the people playing in the game - 
at 
least, theones withoutcapes.The ironyofthis 
generally escapes him. 
Natural Habitat: The Mocker hangs out 
where LARPers hang out when they’re not 
playing, within earshot but often no closer. He 
makes a point of claiming that he’s standing 
upwind, just to be pushy about the whole thing. 
Notes: The Mocker is often the larval form 
of the standard Player; he generally maintains 
Mocker status only so long as he doesn’t actually 
bother to read the books or play the games he’s 
making fun of. Once he gets dragged into put- 
ting his money where his mouth is, he either 
evolves or finds a new hobby. 
T H E  ONCEAND 
EUTURE AUTHOR 
Quote: Actually, I think the rules for this stuff suck. I’ve written a better system, und it’s a 
Concept: Anything they can do, I’m sure I can do better when I get around to it. 
Appearance: The Once and Future Author is possibly the only species of MET player 
commonly found in tweeds and/ or mock turtlenecks. Sweaters are a good indicator, as are 
wire-frame glasses, but those are also signs of the Nerdy Tremere (who’s an entirely different 
kettle of clove-smoking, bloodsucking fish). 
Natural Habitat The Once and Future Author is often found in the middle of a flock of 
younger players, possibly even a nest of luckless Terrified Newbies. What he’s doing there can best 
be described as “holding court,” as he spins a web of his thoughts on rules modifications and ideas 
that he’s sure would improve the game immeasurably. What those ideas actually are is a bit harder 
to get out of him; he’s just sure that what he’s capable of coming up with is bound to be better. 
Oh, andcheck the local coffeehouse. He’s theone in thecomer with the laptop, playing Solitaire. 
Notes: The Once and Future Author is careful to maneuver himself into delicately 
controlled situations. These situations are designed to play up his knowledge of rules loopholes 
and allow him the opportunity to pontificate about possible improvements. Normal, average 
roleplaying situations, however, tend to drive Once and Future Authors off. 
vast improvement. Can you see it? Uh, no, I left it at home. In Montana. Really. 
THE 
MOMMY/DADDY 
PLAYER 
Quote: So can I take thatpower? The other Storyteller said that it would be OKif it were OK 
Concept: Plllleeeeeease can I have it? I’ll be your best friend! 
Appearance: The Mommy/ Daddy Player is capable of the most astonishing camou- 
with you! *blink* *sad puppy eyes* 


Natural Habitat: Under most circum- 
stances, the Mommy/ Daddy Player mingles 
happily and innocently with the crowd. It’s 
just abizarre combinationofevents that brings 
out his latent mutant powers and causes hu- 
manity to hate and fear him and send giant 
pink robots from the future to destroy his 
exclusive boarding school, and.. . 
... err.. . 
. . .umm. Where was I? 
Anyway, most of the time Mommy/ Daddy 
Players are perfectly cool, mingling with the 
roleplaying throngs around them. It’s just that 
occasionally, one catches sight of a power or 
Merit or some other neat gadget that another 
character has that is completely new to him. 
According to scientists, this triggers a physiologi- 
cal reaction that causes the M/D P to either swim 
up the Willamette River and spawn or to start 
stalking the local Storyteller in hopes of comer- 
ing her and begging permission to add the new 
power to his character sheet as soon as possible. 
Under most circumstances, the Story- 
teller thus confronted sensibly avoids the 
decision and sends the M/D P off with a bland “If the other Storyteller says it’s OK or some 
such. The fatal mistake the Storyteller makes in this instance is assuming that her 
counterpart is going to show some sort of common sense and bounce the M/D P on his ear 
a few times to see if any brain cells shake loose. Unfortunately, this is when the M/D P’s 
cunning survival mechanism kicks in. 
Instead of going up to the second Storyteller with “Well, Anne blew me off when I 
asked for Master-Class Temporis,” he sneaks up on his prey with “Anne said it was OK for 
me to have Master-Class Temporis if you said it was OK.” In many cases, the helpless second 
Storyteller is taken by surprise and gives assent, which concludes the cycle for the M/D P. 
He scurries back into play, and it’s left to the Storytellers to figure out what the hell just 
happened the next time the entire game rewinds six hours. 
Notes: All conversations with M/D Ps should include the word “no” at least three times 
per sentence, more if possible. 
T H E  SCAMMER 
Quote: So, want tog0 back to my place after the gum is w e r d  talk about ourchmacters’ refahhip? 
Concept: I’m a- what clan do those three women in the black dresses play?Toreador? 
OK, I’m a Toreador. 
Appearance: The Scammer often wears fake fangs, dark sunglasses, a white poofy shirt, 
pirate boots and a vest of some sort - 
unless the women in the game have demonstrated 
a preference for some other sort of raiment. In that case, all bets are off. 
Natural Habitat: The Scammer is a migratory animal, following whomever captures 
his fancy around all night while attempting to involve her in his plotlines. Since most of 
those plotlines involve what can charitably be called Naked Coed Blood Bonding, the 
Scammer generally spends a lot more time on the prowl than doing anything else. 
Notes: The Scammer can generally be counted on to do whatever the most attractive 
woman in front of him at a given time tells him to do. The trick is A) to keep him from looking 


usefuland R) tobribe theobjectofhis temporary 
obsession sufficiently to get her to use her influ- 
ence over the Scammer in your favor. 
Look on the bright side. If he weren’t at 
the LARP, he might be dating your sister. 
T H E  
RULES LAWYER 
Quote: It clearly states on page 34 of this 
mimeographed galley proof of issue 4 of White 
WolfMagazine thatundercertaincircumstances, 
I can in fact rip out an Antediluvian’s spleen just 
by lookingathimimploringly andsayingthephrase, 
“Your mother dresses you funny.” You didn’t 
know that? 1 thought everyone knew that. 
Concept: Who’s got time for a concept 
when there are rules to memorize? 
Appearance: The Rules Lawyer is often 
nattily attired, albeit never in a way to call 
attention to himself. Often, he can be identi- 
fied by the condition of the books he carries 
with him; pages with rules advantageous to 
his character are marked with tape flags or 
stickv notes. Insome extreme cases. the Rules 
Lawyer re-binds his books for easier access or simply has them tattooed on his forearms so 
that he might literally bludgeon the opposition to death with them. 
Natural Habitat: Existing on the fringes of the pack, the Rules Lawyer frequently tries 
to blend in with the rest of the game. He emerges only briefly to debate a ruling or call on 
an obscure optional rule, then submerges back into the herd. 
The only way to isolate a Rules Lawyer is to challenge him deliberately. This can be done 
by making a call that contradicts some weird Risen-sluagh-kinfolk-usingMage-Spheres kind 
of rule that is near and dear to the Rules Lawyer’s heart. Doing so causes the Rules Lawyer to 
burst from the pack in a frenzy of quotations and finger-pointing, which continues until the 
Storyteller either gives in (just to shut him up already) or has him shot with a tranquilizer dart. 
Notes: The Rules Lawyer honestly believes that adherence to the rules - 
all of them 
- 
is the absolute best thing for the game. He just can’t help it if he knows the rules better 
than anyone (and that often includes the authors and the developer, mind you) and puts 
that knowledge into play. Pity he can’t find time to read the sections on giving characters 
personalities, but hey, something’s got to give, right? 
There are other recognizable types, of course: The Boffer Basher (who can’t understand 
why everyone’s upset at being clobbered with plumbing supplies in Elysium)- 
(Ahem, thank you, Rich. That will be quite enough. -Carl.) 
-the Lone Fruitbat (who insists on playing Garou in a Vampire game, a vampire in an 


THF FVOLUTION OE 
M I N D ’ S  €Y€ T H € A T R €  
Eye Theatre line, Jess oversaw the dewelop- 
ment of the Laws of the Hunt book as well as 
parts of Laws of the Wyld West. The Mind’s 
Eye Theatre game line has changed quite a bit 
ower the years, and it continues to change as new 
the Hunt: a look at the most current versions of rules for Mind’s Eye Theatre and how they 
apply to all of the game lines. This article isn’t an attempt to address specific cases - 
that’s 
thepurviewoftheFAQsection-but itdoestalkaboutsomechanges thathavefar-reaching 
effects on most, if not all, of the books for Mind’s Eye Theatre. If you’ve got this article and 
a Mind’s Eye Theatre book, you should be playing the mmt current version of the game! 
C H A L L E N ~ E S  
As described in the various Mind’s Eye Theatre books, a challenge involves a 
simple game of Rock-Paper-Scissors between two or more people. The victor wins 
the challenge and accomplishes his desired result; the loser fails in his attempt. 
In the event of a tie, challengers check their appropriate Traits. Thus, in a Mental 
Challenge, both participants check their number of Mental Traits, and the person with 
the most Traits wins. Use the current number ofTraits! As a playerexpendsTraits (losing 
them in challenges or activating powers), the character tires out, runs out of confidence 
and gets fatigued -eventually, even the most powerful character wears out. 
If both sides have the same number of Traits, the win goes to the defender, but 
both parties lose the Traits they bid. 
RETESTS 
Several different factors allow for retests, Abilities, overbids and special powers 
among them. In general, though, retests all have the same effect. 
A retest can be called only when a player loses a test - 
if you win a test in 
combat, you cannot use your Brawl Ability to retest and do the same thing again, for 
example, even when supernaturally compelled. When a retest is called, you lose the 
Trait(s) you bid in the initial test (mark them off immediately) and then perform a 
new test. If you lose the retest, you still lose the challenge. If you win, you still lose 
the initial Trait(s) you bid, but you win the challenge. In a tie, compare Traits as 
normal, but remember that you lose the Trait(s) you bid for the initial test. 
A retest called by use of an Ability expends the Ability automatically, regardless 
of the outcome of the test; if you fail to punch someone and call for a retest with Brawl, 
the Brawl Ability is expended automatically. Conversely, a retest called with an 
overbid does not expend the overbid Trait automatically - 
you only lose the overbid 
Trait if you lose the test. Note that calling an overbid requires only one Trait, even if 
you are injured or were otherwise forced to bid more than one Trait on the initial test. 


Arctest maybecanceledasdescribed inLawsof theHunt. InacasewhereinanAhility- 
based retest is called by your opponent, you may cancel his retest automatically if you have 
at least two more levels in that Ability than he does. Thus, if your opponent calls for a Brawl 
retest in combat but has only one level of Brawl Ability, you may expend a level of the Brawl 
Ability to cancel his retest completely if you have at least Brawlx 3. If you and your opponent 
have the same amount of current Brawl Ability, or if your current Ability is less rhan your 
opponent’s (ornottwolevelshigher), thenyoucannotcance1hisretest;youmustwaitforthe 
opponent’s retest and then expend a level of your Ability for a retest of your own (if the 
opponent’s retest succeeds). Thus, with high levels of Ability, you can completely prevent a 
less skilled opponent from turning the tables on you. However, if you are evenly matched, 
there is always achance for luck and a little bit of skill to intervene. Note that a cancellation 
maybedoneonlywithalike Abilityorpower: IfanopponentcallsforaretestwithBrawl, you 
must cancel it with your own Brawl or Meke Ability, not with the Merit: Luck (for instance). 
A given source may be used as a retest only once on any particular challenge. 
A character with Brawl x 3 cannot use Brawl multiple times for retests on a single 
challenge, but he could use Brawl followed by Luck. Certain powers end a challenge 
automatically, and no retests may be called after the use of such powers. 
MASS COMBAT 
Mass combat involves multiple attackers assaultingone defender. Insuchcases, 
the first task is to determine who’s attacking whom and how. The original rules for 
mass combat, revised and elaborated here, make mass combat much more dangerous. 
Amass attackoccurswhenup tofive peopleassault one targetwithsimilarmethcds. 
Thus, if five people all attack one vampire (using swords, stakes and torches), they 
conduct one mass challenge. However, if different forms of assault were used (a shotgun 
fromone attacker but aspell from another) then eachdifferent form of attack- Physical, 
Mental or Social - 
would be handled as a separate challenge or mass challenge. 
In a mass challenge, the defender throws one symbol (rock, paper, scissors or aspecial 
symbol allowed by certain powers) while each attacker throws one symbol ofhis own in the 
samechallenge. EachattackerbidsoneTrait (orenoughTraits toenteronechallenge), and 
the defender bids enough Traits to engage in challenges with every attacker; if the defender 
has insufficient Traits, he may choose the attackers against whom he wishes to defend. The 
defender compares his symbol to every attacker at the same time, then resolves each result 
simultaneously: Losing three tests and winning two causes the defender to lose three Traits 
and suffer all of the results of losing to the three victorious attackers. If the defender 
counterstrikes, he may choose to affect any one attacker whom he defeated in the mas 
challenge. Retests should also be made together, but each patty must bid enough Traits to 
cover all targets; thus, the two losing attackers in the previous example could bid one Trait 
each to retest, and the defender would have to bid two Traits to retest against them bth, 
resolving the retest as a second mass challenge. 
WILLPOWER 
Different Mind’s Eye Theatre books give different rules for what can and can’t 
be done with Willpower Traits. The most consistent set of rulings to date is listed 
here, along with the reasons why certain changes have been made. 
Willpower can be used to refresh all Traits in a single Attribute category 
(Physical, Social, Mental) once per category per session. 
Willpower cangrant areteston aSocialor Mentalchallenge, ifthe Storytellerfeels 
that Willpower would be appropriate to the challenge. Acharacter cannot simply ignore 
the effects of such challenges with Willpower; that would nullify the use of many special 
powers (“I ignore your Presence with a Trait of Willpower, then hit you four times with 


claws.”). Similarly, certain challenges are not appropriate for expenditure of Willpower; 
a Willpower Trait should be used only on Mental and Social Challenges to resist 
influence or injury. “I expend a Willpower Trait to retest your Auspex challenge against 
my Obfuscate” is not an appropriate use of Willpower, since the cloaked individual 
cannot simply will himself to remain better hidden from the character with Auspex. 
However, Storytellers must decide for themselves which types of challenges permit this 
defensive use of Willpower and which do not. By default, Willpower Traits provide a 
generic retest on a Mental or Social Test, once per challenge. 
A Willpower Trait cannot be used to win a Static or Simple Test automatically, 
considering that many special powers and effects are predicated on such tests. Allowing 
a player to (for instance) expend two Willpower Traits and automatically win the two 
follow-up Static Challenges to stake a vampire through the heart unbalances play. 
A Willpower Trait can be used to ignore all wound penalties up to and 
including Incapacitated for one challenge and one challenge only, including all 
retests made as a result of the challenge. 
Using a Willpower Trait allows a player to attempt an action that would 
normally require an Ability not possessed by the character. Thus, the player could 
spend a Willpower Trait to try to disarm an alarm even if the character does not have 
the Security or Science Ability. The Willpower simply allows the player to make the 
attempt. However, success is not guaranteed. 
T I M E  
The inexorable press of time in Mind’s Eye Theatre games breaks down into 
different segments to approximate the durations of various powers and events. 
N O R M A L  
T I M E V E R S U S  
COMPRESSED 
TIME 
For the most part, Mind’s Eye Theatre games run in normal tine - 
the amount 
of time passing in the real world equals the time passing in the game. Thus, if a player 
wanders about the game site, talks to a few other players and has a drink (taking up 
an hour of time), then an hour passes in the game as well. 
Under some circumstances, though, the game shifts to compressed tiw. The resulting 
phenomenon is called (in the vernacular) a ttme-hubbk. In compressed time, game events do 
not actually take as long to occur as the real world dictates. Thus, if a series of tests takes five 
minutes toresoLveonetumofcombat,thentheplayersinvolvedinthetumhaveexperienced 
compressed time - 
their characters have had only five seconds of game time pass. 
Moving from compressed time to normal time can be tricky. The best solution 
is to assume that the extra time is taken up overseeing wounds, helping allies, getting 
back to the game site or attending to other minor details. Thus, if several players in 
compressed time take two hours of real time to finish a combat, but only pass a few 
turns in the game, then it’s best to assume that they return to the game site two hours 
later, having rested, driven to the appropriate location and so on. 
MEASURES 
O F  T I M E  
A turn is the brief amount of time needed to use a quick special power or to make 
a single attack against someone. In general, a turn lasts five seconds; most characters 
can take a single action in one turn. A Narrator may choose to make a turn last as long 
as a minute depending upon circumstances, but a turn is usually just a brief interval of 
time. Laws of the Hunt states that a turn takes fourseconds, but considering that many 
powers work in intervals of five seconds, the latter is a more sensible time frame. 
A conflict comprises several turns. If a player involves himself in a series of 
challenges with multiple individuals, unbroken by changes in time, space or events, 


thissegment oftime is oneconflict. Anexample ofaconflict is asingle combat between 
two sides or a series of tests as a character in a car tries to pursue a fleeing opponent. 
As long as the tests continue to resolve a single outcome (finishing the combat, chasing 
the enemy, conditioning the mortal, etc.), the incident is a single conflict. A conflict 
is assumed to last 10 minutes if an absolute scale of time is necessary, although this 
estimate may be extended to account for a particularly long conflict. 
A series of conflicts makes up a scene. As long as the characters pursue the same goal 
withln a given perid of time, they are within a particular scene. Thus, a coterie of vampires 
fighting against its Sabbat foes would have a conflict for each battle fought, but the series of 
battles taking place in one graveyard would comprise a single scene. A scene is assumed to 
equate to one hour of time; powers listed as “lasting for a scene” end when the scene ends (in 
the previous example, if the players left the graveyard or slept for the day) or when an hour 
of time elapses in normal-time play. Thus, if a player invokes Encrrmcement on someone for 
ascene, the targeted individual remainsentranced until the game markedly shifts locationand 
time, until areal hour haspass edoruntil the conditio ns for brealung the Enrrancement are met. 
One session generally results from an evening’s play. A session usually includes 
several scenes but may only be one. Most game sessions last several hours in real time. 
A session has no predetermined time; when in doubt, assume that a session lasts from 
sunrise to sunset (or vice versa) for game purposes. For ease of tracking Traits and the 
like, a session ends when all of the players go home for the evening, and it begins 
when they come back again. At conventions or locales in which a game proceeds 
constantly for several days, assume that each session is comprised of one day and one 
night (the Storyteller should decide in advance if the session breaks come at sunrise 
or sunset). For most games, a session is simply the monthly or weekly game night. 
Astory is the result of several sessions developing a coherent plot. A story can be told 
in asingle session, but it is usually the result ofseveral interlinked sessions. The conclusion 
ofamajt)rplotline,be itthedeathofacharacter,theresolutionofaproblemorthechanging 
of a tradi tional event or thing, marks the end of a particular story. Certain Traits and powers 
last for the duration of astory or can be used only a certain number of times in a given story. 
For ease of record-keeping, Storytellers may simply decide on a particular calendar break 
(at their discretion) as the refresh date for such powers, allowing them to update all game 
participmts regularly instead of having to track diverse time arcs with different Traits. 
Finally, a chronicle is the tale of many characters and settings spun together through their 
stories. As long as a game continues with the same characters, places, rules and events, it is 
probably a single chronicle. Multiple threads resolve themselves, and numerous stories may 
end in the COUR of a chronicle. Like a series of books or movies, the chronicle is the overall 
picture ofwhat’s happening in a particular part of the World of Darkness. Any given game can 
be considered a chronicle in its totality; that is, the chronicle changes when the Storyteller 
decides to start a new game, possibly with different characters, changed rules and new goals. 
LOOK IN^ AHEAD 
Obviously, as the Mind’s Eye Theatre game system continues to develop, new rules and 
new problems will crop up. The changes mentioned here may not be good for all time. 
However, intrcducing these corrections now should go a long way toward correcting some 
of the more blatant difficulties in the Mind’s Eye Theatre system - 
we’ll admit it, we’re 
human (more or less), and mistakes do occasionally creep in. When in doubt, use the most 
recent sets of rules published; every METbook takes steps toward amore coherent rules base. 
Ifyou like the new additions you see, don’t hesitate to integrate them into your existing games 
-after all, the fact that Military Influence wasn’t written into Laws of the Wild shouldn’t 
preclude you from adding it to your own! As always, this journal serves to keep players and 
Storytellers informed. Watch this space-we have new ideas, suggestions and input coming 
all the time, some of it even from dedicated players out there (like you). 


AT HOMF WITH THF 
CAMARILLA 
by Jenn Kellam 
Director of Public Relations for the Camarilla fan organization 
and simple purpose: to show 
(who don’t know) that they 
and that LARPs are not ins 
ings ofgaming-community patrons wtha 
j7ar for actmg. Both the Camarilla and 
One World by Night ( a m g  the mny, 
many such orgamzatlons) mke hwe-actiun 
gaming a global neighburbod, as well as 
Whether you are hammering nails onto a new roof for Habitat for Humanity 
or hammering nails into the coffin of your character’s nemesis, the Camarilla, 
White Wolfs official fan club, is here to build a community. We frequently refer 
to ourselves as an organization of garners for garners, and it is this community ideal 
to which we aspire and grow. Based on the concepts of education and leadership 
training, the Camarilla gives people new skills, new friends and one heck of an 
exciting world-wide game. 
The Camarilla is anon-profit organization based out of Salt Lake City, and our 
purpose is threefold. First, we strive to provide acontinuous world-wide live-action 
interactive theater game based upon White Wolfs World of Darkness - 
more 
simply put, a LARP. We utilize several e-mail lists and a host of volunteer 
Storytellers to run this game. The chronicle has been in place for six years, and it’s 
still running! This October, the entire organization of the Camarilla came together 
to solve a complicated and deadly plot that affected the whole chronicle, some- 
thing never seen before! Over a year of plotting and work went in to create the 
horror and the complexities of the plotline we lovingly refer to as the “Vorosja 
Debacle,” and all Camarilla players will continue to feel the fallout for years to 
come. It is just this kind of long-term chronicle that the Camarilla promotes. 
Our second goal is to promote community service and civic involvement. 
This effort gives our members a sense of personal accomplishment, as well as 
reminding our communities that garners are people who are just as concerned and 
civic-minded as their next-door neighbors. Over the years, we have hooked up 
with the Red Cross, the Special Olympics, AIDS research, shelters and tornado 
and flood relief, and we have donated thousands of hours to helping out in our 
local communities. 
One of the Camarilla’s funniest stories comes from an auction we hosted. A 
---LA- +id a rather large sum of money, and the auctioneer began to argue with 
ier, insisting that this was real money and not in character money. The 


argument continued until the member walked forward with a personal check for 
the amount mentioned. Everyone involved in the donation began to laugh and 
cheer as the auctioneer’s jaw hit the floor. The story spread like wildfire, and that 
year many children at the Shriners Hospital were given another chance at life. 
Our last and most important goal is to provide our members a good time, in 
game and out. We have been asked to host the openings of movies like Blade and 
Men in Black while dressed in costume, we have raised the Elder Gods in Call of 
Cthulhu LARPs, we have participated in One World by Night and Liquid Dreams 
LARPs and we have danced down the trods with our Changeling Storytellers. We 
try to promote events that everyone would be interested in or would like to be 
involved in. I guess the most important thing to mention is that we strongly 
encourage new and old members to go to their officers with their ideas for events 
and work on putting them together for everyone to enjoy. 
One region rolled some of the objectives of the Camarilla together into a day 
called the “Garou Moot and Pool Party Barbecue.” In character, members playing 
Garougot together to celebrate the summer solstice. Everyone had fun as they tried 
to convince the Red Talons to get in the pool and get a little wet! I also heard 
rumors of members having a lot of fun during a weekend at a regional game and a 
day at Six Flags over Georgia with members from several different states! There is 
something in the Camarilla for everyone, and that is what we are all about! 
The Camarilla began in February of 1992 In Seattle, Washington. Jana 
Wright and Matt Burke made an all-important phone call to White Wolf to find 
out if there were any fan club organizations for the new Vampire game. The answer 
was no, and thus began the Camarilla, White Wolfs fan club. The concept of the 
club was that it existed for people who not only enjoyed the game but pursued other 
interests that would fit within the Gothic concept. It was also at this time that the 
first members named our magazine Requiem, and they have watched it grow from 
a simple newsletter into the quality production that it is today. In March of 1992, 
at Nonvescon, the first members handed out flyers and an interest sheet to find out 
__ 
~~ 
~ 
-~ ~ 
~ 


if such a club had potential. Later that year, at Vikingcon, the first members of the 
Camarilla made their entrance in the public eye and hosted the first meeting of the 
founding members and Inner Council. 
In April of 1995, Heidi Preuss became the President of the Camarilla, and its 
headquarters moved to Salt Lake City. Since then we have grown from an 
organization of 1,400 members and one e-mail list to a thriving organization of over 
4,000 members in 1 1 countries world-wide. We host over 190 e-mail lists to support 
our diverse interests, including humor lists, creative writing rooms, in-character 
lists and forums for education, debate and announcements. Internet Relay Chat, 
or IRC, is also a tool that the Camarilla utilizes frequently in order to promote the 
global game as well as host online meetings with members all across the world. 
Requiem has turned into a magazine with a color cover, glossy pages, excellent 
writers and fabulous artists. Every Camarilla member can enjoy any of these above 
benefits, as well as a 20% discount on all White Wolf materials purchased directly 
from White Wolf, a membership handbook filled with wonderful ideas for the 
organization of chapters, and access to the members-only section of our website, 
which hosts many pages of information and educational materials. Over the years, 
we have grown stronger and learned more about running a club with such diverse 
interests as ours. 
At this point, it is probably best to explain how the Camarilla’s communi- 
cation lines and hierarchy are built. The Camarilla is organized with our purpose 
in mind. First of all, the club maintains two lines of officers: the Storytellers, who 
are in charge of the games, and the Coordinators, who are in charge of keeping 
the organization functioning. We decided to organize things along these lines to 
better relieve stress upon any single person. A Storyteller who does not have to 
worry about making sure that the rooms are secure and paid for, keeping the 
members happy out of character, taking care of the newsletter, and securing 
future game times is free to Dlan for the eame and the in-character events. A 


Coordin,Ltor who does not have to worry about the Sabbat raid tonight, the 
character histories due for review or the outcome of a cross-regional Influence 
battle is free to plan next week’s birthday party. Almost every level of the 
organization utilizes a balanced team of Coordinators and Storytellers working 
together for the enjoyment of all members. 
The most important part of the organization is the individual person. Thus, 
local members maintain the basic organization and flavor of their own chapters, 
and this feeds into the personality and cohesion of the organization as a whole. If 
local members want to create a chapter dedicated to creative writing and critique, 
the Camarilla helps them set their chapter up that way. If they wish a chapter 
dedicated to hosting or attending troupe games, we help set their chapter up that 
way. Each chapter is in charge of its own identity under the ideals of the “Chapter 
Strong” philosophy of the Camarilla. Most chapters are active participants in the 
internacional global game, and most utilize the Storyteller-Coordinator partner- 
ship method to organize their officers. 
At the base level, then, are local chapters, with the Coordinator and 
Storyteller in charge of organization. Chapter-level games are the most prolific and 
form the bulk of the Camarilla’s chronicle. Chapters are also the closest social 
circles, hosting such things as weekly Buffy parties, after-game get-togethers and 
donation drives. 
Next up is the domain level. The domain is an organization of several chapters 
in one city that have set their groups up to work together. The domain may host 
citywide games, promote citywide service events or host a domain party and get- 
together. This level of the organization helps in large cities. It breaks up the chapter 
officers’ workload and builds 
continuity and an extra level 
of communication for the 
members. The Domain Story- 
teller hosts the larger games 
and is in charge of weaving all 
the plots of the chapter games 
intoasingleunifiedstory.The 
Domain Coordinator main- 
tains the newsletters, secures 
game sites, opens and main- 
tains lines of communication 
between chapters and orga- 
nizes the occasional domain 
service or social event. 
Next, the United States 
is divided into eight regions. 
Each region is headed by a 
Regional Coordinator and 
Storyteller. TheRegionalSto- 
ryteller weaves all the 
sanctioned domain and chap- 
ter storylines into an even 
larger unified plotline. The 
AT H O M E  
W I T H T H E  
CAMARILLA 
. _
_
_
~
~
-
~
 
_ _  
QD 
-~ 


Regional Storyteller will also send down regional plotlines to the local levels so all 
the members of the region can become involved in the larger game of the 
Camarilla. The Regional Coordinator hosts regional conventions, puts out news- 
letters, hosts service events and organizes the occasional regional social event. The 
Regional Coordinator also has the task of ensuring that lines of communication 
remain open between all the cities and states in the region. The regional officers 
are the liaisons to the Board of Directors. In this way, board officers can ensure that 
the regions are receiving important information through their officers. 
Countries outside the United States organize themselves along lines appropri- 
ate to local laws and customs. They maintain close communication with the 
Camarilla offices in Salt Lake City and weave their experiences with the learning 
of United States players. We grow and build with each other out of character, and 
in character. People across the oceans have found friends and pen-pals. Some 
people have even traveled long distances to finally meet those Camarilla members 
whom they had only seen as writing on a screen. One member published the 
chronicle of her trip from the UK to Italy as she visited Camarilla players along the 
way. This really helped to bring United States members an understanding of their 
fellow gamers overseas. 
Finally, the board of Directors organizes the vision and inner workings of the 
Camarilla. Eleven Directors work year-round to produce the quarterly magazine, 
the Requiem, promote the Camarilla at conventions such as GenCon and 
Dragoncon, organize the annual International Camarilla Conclave convention 
(ICC), educate, promote community involvement and so much more. The 
president heads the board and maintains a managerial view of the functional 
workings of the organization. The Master Storyteller weaves together the plotlines 
of the regions and the international games and passes down national and intema- 
tional storylines for the various games. The MST is also in charge of rules 
clarification and supplement creation. 
Through it all, small projects are always cropping up. These projects are often 
the ideas of general members (and they are spearheaded and run completely by the 
people who brought them up, with minimal Board advisement) or they are ideas 
brought together by the Board itself. The appropriate member of the Board gathers 
teams to complete the project in a timely manner. These teams often include 
people from all around the globe. In this way, the hierarchy of officers actually 
creates a circle of communication and education. Each person lends a talent and 
ability to the other members, and everyone is encouraged to keep anopen mind and 
sense of willingness, because there is always going to be someone out there who has 
something to teach you or a new way of doing something better. 
In the future, the Camarilla looks to further our relations with White Wolf, 
solidify the continuity of the international game and organize informational 
databases of member information. We are in the process of creating a MUSH, we 
plan to further tabletop gaming activities, upgrade our magazine and promote 
' itions with other LARP organizations to expand the community of gamers for 
iers. Some of our biggest interests are our continuing good relationships with 
media and local government organizations-there is so much to do and become 
olved in! And it involves everyone from the individual members to the board 
Iirectors. In the Camarilla, everyone is responsible for ensuring that the games 
I the events all run with our Five Real-Life Traditions in mind: 


1. 
Steadfastly follow the policies and Code of Conduct of the Camarilla. 
2. 
Be courteous and cordial. Solve problems, don’t create them. 
3. 
P1aysafe:don’t touch, nostunts,nodangerous props.Nodnnkingandnodrugs. 
4. 
Compliment, don’t criticize. 
5. 
Have fun! 
The most noted aspect of the Camarilla is the six-year-old sanctioned 
continuity of the global game. We utilize White Wolf books and materials, 
focusing our efforts on creating a shared World of Darkness. Any official chapter 
of the Camarilla can become a part of the continuity. Once this happens, players 
can join a tapestry of shared events and political maneuverings and lend their own 
characters to become a part of the hunting, posturing and manipulations of the 
game. We support Vampire, Werewolf and Wraith, and our Storytellers recently 
added Changeling. 
The Camarilla, taking its lead from White Wolf, has separated our venues to 
support a game that more closely resembles the World of Darkness. We host 
Camarilla/ anarch/ mortal, Sabbatl mortal, changeling, Garou/ Kinfolk/ Bet6 and 
wraith venues. On the rare occasion that they happen upon each other, the venues 
do cross. The Influence game, which is very strong in the Camarilla, crosses all venues 
-mortals can learn of careless Kindred through an Influence war. In Chattanooga, 
Tennessee, Camarilla members play common mortals slowly becoming pawns in the 
lives of the Kindred. The game has an X-Fiks feel, as the players’ mortal characters 
are immersed slowly in the global continuity of Kindred and Garou games. 
As you can tell, we support all manner of games. It is important to note that there 
is a difference between sanctioned games and troupe games. We do host and promote 
several troupe games. These can be anything from a game that uses our rules and creation 
system but stays outside the continuity to a “God Game” in which everyone plays a 
Methuselah and attempts to kill the others off until there is only one left. We encourage 
members to attend LARPs hosted by organizations that are not a part of the Camarilla. 


We are currently in the process of developing a functional and easily workable 
method to create a sanctioned White Wolf tabletop continuity. In the meantime, 
we do engage in general tabletop gaming within our chapters. Members encounter 
the World of Darkness, Cthulhu and his Miskatonic madness and traditional 
dungeon crawling in ADBD. 
Camarilla members have even taken board games 
such as Talisman and Star Wars Monopoly and created chapter and domain 
tournaments! We also enjoy participating in more active games like touch football 
and ultimate frisbee: One region frequently challenges its domains to fight it out 
on the frisbee field or basketball court! 
Over the years we have endeavored to participate more and more in conven- 
tions on a local and national level. In 1998, several local chapters hosted events such 
as demonstration games or community service booths at local conventions. Nation- 
ally, the Camarilla participated in GenCon and Dragoncon. We met many 
wonderful people at these conventions and managed to meet other LARP organiza- 
tions. At GenCon, we met One World By Night and wore its “Bite Me” buttons in 
order to participate in its LARP as mortals. (Ofcourse, we did get together with other 
mortals and attempted a mortal uprising against the oppressive tyranny of the 
vampires.) At GenCon, we met the creative members of Liquid Dreams, an all- 
Sabbat LARP in Atlanta. We also met many of the members and coordinators of 
Sabertooth, a Vampire organization in New York. It was amazing to make all these 
connections and realize that we are all a part of a much larger community. 
Many regions host regional events every few months. These events usually 
encompass entire weekends during which the region rents out a hotel. During that 
weekend, members host several tabletop games, a weekend-long sanctioned game, 
how-to lectures and regional member and officer meetings, as well as organize a 
dealers’ room. In the dealers’ room are exhibits from local non-profit organizations 
and local shops and artisans. White Wolf occasionally puts in an appearance to 
promote the most recent publication in the Mind’s Eye Theater product line. One 
region has had such success with one hotel that the managers proclaimed the 
Camarilla one of the nicest groups they have worked with and left us with the keys 


to the hotel and the owner’s home number in case of emergencies. They invited 
us back. for next year. The Camarilla is trying its best to promote gamers and the 
gaming community as a group of responsible and fun-loving adults. 
Nationally, the Camarilla has put together a convention that we lovingly call 
ICC, or the International Conclave of the Camarilla. The first year of the 
convention was 1996, and it was hosted in Houston, Texas. Every year the 
convention has grown by 30%. It consists of four days and nights of LARPing, 
tabletop gaming, a charity auction, meetings for officers and members, open board 
meetings, parties, dancing and, of course, a well-used booth from White Wolf. We 
host it every year during the week before Halloween. It is a time when members 
from literally all over the world come together and renew friendships out of 
character and pursue the hunt as Garou or seek the demise of a centuries-old enemy 
as vampires. This year, in Salt Lake City, we added our Changeling and Wraith 
venues. We also had a surprise when Fox Television showed up to videotape us for 
their newscast! It was really amazing to walk through the halls and hear people 
calling to each other and introducing new members. Over 550 people from all 
around the globe attended this last convention, and we are expecting that number 
to grow even larger in Portland in 1999 and Cleveland in 2000! 
There remains something to be said about the creativity of the members and 
the family created by the Camarilla. Our members are writers, students, lawyers, 
doctors and rocket scientists. We are ro!eplayers and community members. We 
are old and young, we are tall and short0 we are a little bit of everything. I have 
seen members come in off the streets and turn their lives around. I have seen 
chapters get together to raise money to help defray medical costs for a member 
who is sick. I have seen members find other members jobs. I have attended 
parties, weddings and graduations and welcomed new babies home. Members get 
together to write stories and articles, create works of art and take amazing photos! 
The Camarilla is about bringing in the innate talents and abilities of every 
member and sharing them with each other to create a community, write a story 
and bring about a little change. 


IE IT r’s Broke 
From time to time in a live-action roleplaying environment (especially one in 
which numerous characters are involved), things get out of hand, and characters 
make decisions that get everyone in their respective societies in a great deal of 
trouble. Vampires break the Masquerade; Garou endanger the Veil; changelings 
blow the rights of the Escheat right out the window; waiths violate the Dictum 
Mortuum. But what’s to be done when the thought ofhaving to push that big, ugly 
RESET button looms! This column hopefully serves as a gukkline. In each 
installment, you get the problem plus the solution (all of which come out of real 
gaming experiences). 
How NOTTO 
THROWA 
MUSIC EESTIVAL 
T H E  PROBLEM 
It all started reasonably enough. A Sabbat troublemaker had been dropping 
hints of his whereabouts to the local Camarilla-loyal denizens of [Anycity], GA. He 
had been taunting the prince and primogen council shamelessly, and the prince had 
finally dispatched a small coterie (including a Tremere, a Malkavian and a Gangrel) 
to find this vampire before he did some real damage to the Masquerade. Following 
a tip, the coterie tracked the Sabbat to a side-street in Atlanta adjacent to the site 
of the Music Midtown Festival. 
Dodging through a crowd that had gathered to taunt and out-shout a local street- 
preacher (one of Atlanta’s many), the coterie closed on the Sabbat’s position. They 
spoke to said rebel, but he was not content to stay put. Drawing the three along, he 
moved closer to the crowd (a crowd which drew in the people leaving the Festival just 
down the street). When he had led them to the center of the crowd, the Sabbat sprung 
his trap, designed to shatter the Masquerade in downtown Atlanta. Without warning, 
he uppercut the Malkavian, sending the hapless Lunatic flying across the street and 
over a row of parked cars. The Gangrel leapt at the Sabbat, Wolfclaws gleaming in full 
view, and missed. He sailed through the air, trying to catch himself, but only managed 
to draw 10 deep rents into the hood of a parked car before rolling into the people- 
packed street. The car’s alarm went off, and those pedestrians who hadn’t already 
noticed (or bolted like sheep from) the commotion all turned to stare agape. 
But it was the action of the Tremere that really stuck in their minds. Thought 
he was too stunned to move when the formerly talkative (even genteel) Sabbat first 
attacked, the Tremere regained his wits as his two companions fell in short order. He 
stepped into a clearer line of sight with the Sabbat and enacted the Thaumaturgy 
power Theft ofvitae. As the Sabbat gasped in unexpected pain, a viscous red torrent 
leapt from his body to the outstretched hand of the Tremere. Suddenly rethinking 
his goals (he’d done more than enough already), the Sabbat turned his supernatural 
prowess to self-preservation. Disappearing at inhuman speeds, he carved a path 
through the throng and out of sight. 
At which point, of course, all hell broke loose. The rowdy, milling crowd scattered 
in panic (those who still could, anyway), and even the vociferous street preacher 
turned tail and fled with the sinners. The fleeing people collided with the ones spilling 
over from the Music Festival, all shouting about what had happened. Aghast, the three 


Camarilla-loyal vampires slipped away (under the woozy Malkavian’s power of Cloak 
the Gathering) as sirens began to push their way to the scene. 
THE 
SOLUTION 
Naturally, when word of this fiasco got back to the prince of [Anycity], said prince 
was not happy. Shattering the tranquillity of Elysium, he gathered every Kindred in 
attendance. He commanded everyone present to pool every last resource available to 
them (every dollar; every ounce of Influence) and work toward quashing the problem. 
In the end, the following Influences came to the fore: 
Church 
Finance 
High Society 
Media 
Police 
Street 
And how did the unlucky Camarilla vampires use these Influences? Inshort, the 
vampiresused each to create and cement a plausible (ifnot highly likely) cover story, 
reasoning that an outlandish believable story would have a much greater impact and 
would be more memorable than an outlandish unbelievuble story. 
The cover story stated that, in the late hours of the Music Midtown Festival, an 
outspoken fire-and-brimstone street-preacher had taken it upon himself to bring light 
to the eyes of the baleful sinners of Atlanta. In so doing, however, he had shamelessly 
lain about with accusations of exactly who was a sinner and why, and (in his own 
spectacularly undiplomatic idiom) he had managed to start a small-scale race riot. 
However, merely saying a thing is never enough to make it true, and it took the 
collective Influence of every [Anycity] Camarilla vampire to make it a reality. The 
Medm and Police Influences went out almost immediately to clear up the public and 
official record of what happened. A plant inside the area police department was 
dispatched to monitor incoming eyewitness reports and either lose them entirely or 
alter them in such a way that the supernatural violence reported was toned down to 
the level of monstrous human violence. Those vampires with eyes in the local public 
media maintained a vigilant watch on live videotape submissions- thus curtailing the 
release of anything directly incriminating- as well as calling many different broadcast 
stations and newspapers with false scoops on the story the Kindred wanted to see put 
forward. Some of the Police Influences also went into having the incriminating car 
towed away and destroyed. (One generous vampire even used a Bureaucracy Influence 
to see that the human auto-owner’s insurance company paid the salvage cost.) 
Finance, Church, High Society and Street all went to backing up the public and 
official view of the story once the Kindred had gotten it out. The vampires used Finance 
and Street to bribe various “eyewitnesses” to speak to the police and local news 
broadcasters. The Church Influences coerced local churches from all around Atlanta 
and [Anycity] to issue press releases condemning the wayward street-preacher who’d 
started the whole mess and to offer any sort of community aid in their power. Similarly, 
the High Society Influences were used to cajole a similar series of press releases from the 
promoters, performers and subsidizers of the Midtown Music Festival. 
Due to the vampires’ quick reaction and blanket Influence-spending, the story 
they wanted heard quickly became the official story. As for the coterie of vampires 
who let the situation get so far out of hand in the first place.. . well, let’s just say that 
there are some horrors in the World of Darkness that are best left unspoken. 


O N €  WORLD 
This article, and Jenn Kellam’s, serve a pure 
1 
andsimple purpose: toshow live-actiongamers a 
(who don’t know) that they’re not alone 
and that LARPs are not insular gathenngs 
of gaming community patrons with a jkzr 
for acting. Both the Camarilla and One 
One World by Night (OWbN) is just that - 
one 
One world of volunteers who form a grassroots not-for-profit organization of 
loosely knit chronicles spanning the entire globe. 
One World of opportunities for our members to play their home-chronicle 
characters at games just a few hours away, in many of our neighboring cities or in 
far-flung exotic places like New Zealand or Brazil! 
One world of emphasis on a story that is meant for the enjoyment of the 
players, giving them whatever pleasures it might. 
Overall, One World by Night is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to 
creating links between Mind’s Eye Theatre games around the world. By combin- 
ing the various stories of its member chronicles, OWbN hopes to enhance its 
members’ enjoyment by expanding local plots to the global level, truly creating a 
World of Darkness. 
Well, so much for the glib introduction ripped straight from our website. 
Allow me now to sit back, sip at my glass and tell you a little bit more about us than 
you might find on the Internet. 
First, allow me to introduce myself. My given name is Duncan Wyley 
(although most of my friends call me Dunx), and I’m the Head Coordinator of 
OWbN (strangely, often pronounced “Obi-Wan” - 
just don’t tell Lucas). I 
have been in this position for about a year by the time you read this. Before that, 
I spent about two-and-a-half years Storytelling in my local chronicle, during 
which time I discovered the pack that I now lead. And before that were about 
17 long years of gaming. 
Over the course of this year or so, I have met, via the Internet, some of the 
sharpest minds and finest gamers it has been my privilege to know. During my 
involvement in the development of an organization of this scale and scope, these 
people have taught me many things. Primarily, they have shown me that there is 
a large number of enthusiastic people who believe in the development of our hobby 
on a grand scale. No longer content to restrict themselves to one city, these people 
wish to encompass the world in their passion. 
world. 


roleplaving and live theater in the people involved in our hobby. And we’re having 
some fun along the way! 
OWbN would like to grow, and we are still accepting and processing 
membership applications at present. Our website at http://www.owbn.com has 
more information for readers who might be interested ... c’mon, you know you 
want to. 
Bwa-hah-haaa! Soon ve shall rule za verlt! 
No, seriously.. . We’re working toward becoming an expansive community of 
camaraderie and roleplaying. In some small way, we are contributing both to 
ourselves, in terms of fostering plots and friendships, and to the gaming community 
as a whole, in terms of growing awareness and acceptance by a number of social 
groups. Many of our players are involved in the business and social communities 
in our respective towns and countries, and the friends we make in these organiza- 
tions come to accept that what we do is a harmless pastime. In both ways, our hobby 
is fostered. This is, in my opinion, a Good Thing. 
To ensure our enjoyment, we’ve constructed an organization that is easy to join 
and participate in, with only a few restrictions to keep things comparatively sane. 
One World isn’t a hierarchy that costs our chronicles anything to join or stay 
with. The main thing we ask is that our chronicles emphasize stories that are meant 
for the enjoyment of our players -we hope that any players who may travel from 
around the world will be enraptured by and entrapped within the intricacies of 
another shadowy comer of our One World. 
We’re not a small group of individuals that changes your chronicles to suit its 
whims. OWbN’s founding idea is that all games have a great degree of autonomy 
- 
essentially, as we put it, “your game is your game.” This philosophy has yielded 
us a veritable melting pot of styles and personalities. With no central overriding 
theme and no dominant personality other than trying to be generally receptive to 
all styles of games, we appeal to all types of garners. 
When we encounter situations that involve crossover interaction between 
chronicles, we encourage the Storytellers of those chronicles to communicate and 
elaborate the plots for the enrichment of both (or all) the games involved. 
We are not some industrial bureaucracy that forges and legislates its 
chronicles into carbon copies of one another; chronicle-diversity is essential. We 
all build upon one another - 
good ideas spread, and bad experiences are shared 
in order to keep other chronicles from facing similar problems. Individuality is 
the heart of our organization. 
One World isn’t limited. The only limitations are the ones we place upon 
ourselves and the ones required to administer the organization. With the addition 
of each new chronicle, we add to the experience, wisdom and creativity necessary 
to expand and enhance the ever-unfolding story that is our One World by Night. 
Hmm ... Perhaps a little background is in order. 
One World by Night started in Chicago, Illinois, USA in March of 1994 at 
a local roleplaying convention by the name of Concentric. 
Hey, neat! We’re five years old this year. Maybe we should throw a worldwide 
party or something. 
Anyway, a game was held between a local gaming group in Chicago and 
another group from Indianapolis, IN known as The Beautiful and the Damned. After 


the convention, the game never ended. The convention’s plots were incorporated 
into the new Chicago game (started by Mario Bonassin), and the original storyline 
for One World by Night was born. 
The Chicago game grew quickly as the players played within the Excalibur 
nightclub, the actual model for the Succubus Club of White Wolfs Chicago by 
Night. In addition to Chicago players like Dave Gill, other non-Chicagoans joined 
the game. John Flournoy was running the Lafayette game at Purdue University, IN, 
and among his players were two students from the East Coast, Bill Hyatt and Rich 
Devine, two of our first Head Coordinators. When some of these players left for 
their respective home cities, the idea of an intertwined World of Darkness arose. 
One night at a Chicago game in the top floor of a bar called the Morseland, 
Dave Gill and Bill Hyatt put forward their ideas for a shared game, though it would 
be unlike either the Camarilla or the Shared Universe system. The focus would be 
a shared story, not shared rules. Bill had the exact same idea and even had a name 
for the concept. The first Midwest shared game was created between Lafayette, IN 
After about three months, Bill and Rich went back to NVA and we thought 
the game would end. On the contrary, our little experiment proved that a shared 
game was possible but that it needed work. It needed a charter so that all the 
Storytellers would know what they were getting into. The charter needed to 
outline clearly that your game would remain your game and that no one would stop 
you if you wanted to go through the entire rulebook and rewrite it (as we all did 
several times over). But goofy-ray-gun-wielding Mummies were not in any way to 
have a part in the shared story. 
Bill, who had named One World by Night, became the Coordinator, creating 
a web site and acting as a contact for other games. He talked to people about our 
project and marketed the organization’s focus - 
“your game is your game.” 
We soon recruited Jake Holub and the San Francisco delegation, both of 
whom are with us still. We became national, spanning coast to coast, in a matter 
of a few months. 
Concentric ’95, in March, was the first OWbN Conclave, at which we 
discovered how different our rules really were and polled the players to find out 
if they wanted some universal rulings. The answer was an overwhelming 
affirmative. Not only were they telling us that they enjoyed being a part of the 
game but also that they were confident and comfortable with us making these 
universal decisions. 
GenCon ’95 was the organization’s first officially sanctioned event (although 
it was not officially part of the convention) and the first meeting of the chronicle 
representatives. This was the first occasion upon which we firmly decided on some 
of the articles that now comprise most of the charter rules. No chronicle would be 
allowed to act against or outside of these rules, for we believed that we had the plan 
for creating a successful network of LARP chronicles. From these Articles came 
written hints and models for starting a successful chronicle, optimum conditions 
and where to look for renting sites. OWbN had created a kind of manual for 
running your own game and keeping it afloat. 
Since then, OWbN has grown to encompass over 60 chronicles, mostly in the 
USA and Brazil. Other countries, such as Spain, Brussels and New Zealand, also 
have member chronicles. 


We recently ran another convention LARP at GenCon ’98, the world’s 
largest gaming convention, held annually in Milwaukee, WI. The attendance was 
phenomenal, exceeding 240 players. 
The latest event was the Mid-Atlantic Conclave, held in Baltimore at the end 
of October. It involved the cooperation of three different games in the area, a 
monumental feat of organization that was pulled off flawlessly. Characters and 
Storytellers from 13 different chronicles from California to Chicago to New 
Zealand attended. 
That’s right - New Zealand. That little agricultural country. That’s where I 
live. I had a great time. 
But I digress. 
OWbN is administered primarily through a series of coordinators and council 
members drawn from the various chronicles. Each chronicle has a voice on the 
Council through its council member, who is selected by the players and Storytellers 
in that chronicle. The council member is responsible for representing his chronicle’s 
interests, keeping the Council apprised of any situations of regional or interna- 
tional significance that may arise, and voting on any matters that may come up in 
council, such as the admission of new chronicles to OWbN. 
Council Members are also primary contact points (alongside the Storytellers) 
for other chronicles wanting information or updates on current plots in their local 
chronicles. In most cases, council members are also Storytellers (although this is 
not always the case) and can give immediate answers - 
otherwise they direct the 
querent to the appropriate person or ask the question on the person’s behalf. 
Voting itself is a simple matter - 
in most cases, a proposal to the Council is 
presented and (hopefully) seconded. A period of discussion is allowed and then a 
vote is called. Each chronicle is allowed one vote, as are the HC and AHC. 
Generally, a majority of the received votes will indicate the proposal’s success. 
The Council also votes on applications for chronicle membership, and the 
Admissions Coordinator may cast a vote in the case of a tie in these situations. 


With the continued expansion of OWbN, we slowly refine our internal 
management processes. This year should see some very progressive steps in this 
direction. The improvement of our operations should streamline a number of issues. 
A set of coordinators is elected each November to hold positions of specific 
responsibility in OWbN. 
The Head Coordinator (HC - 
me) oversees the entire operation of OWbN 
and is assisted in the task by, naturally, an Assistant HC. Alongside these two, an 
Admissions Coordinator tracks new applications to OWbN and keeps tally of the 
membership. These three people form the core of OWbN’s administrative team for 
out-of-character issues. 
The HC is primarily responsible for overseeing the progress of OWbN as an 
organization, for dealing with matters arising in regard to the OWbN Charter and 
for maintaining some sort of order amid the chaos. The HC also assesses disciplin- 
ary situations that may require OWbN’s attention and dispenses advice to 
chronicles as requested. If he’s a good boy, he gets a pat on the back occasionally. 
He (or she - 
although we are yet to see a woman be insane enough to stand 
for the position, I believe, so please forgive the male pronoun) is also responsible 
for supervising the other coordinators as a group. He selects the coordinators each 
year (subject to a verifying vote of confidence for each by the Council) and thus 
hopefully assembles a team that can work together for the betterment of the games 
in general. 
The Assistant Head Coordinator (Joyce Summers) is responsible for main- 
taining the sanity of the Head Coordinator by dealing with the administrative 
minutiae of OWbN, such as voting procedures. This year will see the further 
expansion of the scope of this position to encompass maintenance of and regular 
contact with our more distant chronicles and assistance with the redevelopment 
of a number of our organizational systems. 
Matt Giezentaner, our Admissions Coordinator, and I will continue to 
receive and assess the initial admissions applications to assist new and existing 
chronicles in their applications to One World by Night. Matt is available for 
consultation with anyone considering joining OWbN and can answer most 
questions you may have or direct you to someone who can. His contact information 
can be found at our website. 
Speaking of which, OWbN is strongly tied to the Internet as a primary mode 
of communication. There’s no way I’d be running it if I had to pay for all those toll 
calls to the States every time I needed to see what was going on. 
So if you’re interested in joining up, please bear in mind that you will need 
people in your group who have regular access to the Internet - 
at the very least, 
your council member must be able to receive Council mail. 
OWbN has a number of e-mail lists that allow for quick and easy communi- 
cation between our members, in or out of character. This system provides another 
level of interaction, a challenging and informative method for players to share in 
the loves and lives of each online character’s shadowy existence. 
Many players access these lists daily, and there are some people we just can’t 
shake off the Web. 
We’ve found that this sort of international interaction has really helped 
characters in their recognition of each other and encouraged cross-chronicle 


interaction - 
even if it is just traveling across the entire country to give a rowdy 
Ravnos a Puissance wedgie. 
All chronicles are also strongly advised to have a website and to (try to) keep 
it updated with the latest news and game information so that others in the area can 
check out when they can attend their neighbors’ games. Keep a copy of your house 
rules there as well so potential visitors can read up on the local variances to reduce 
interruption in the flow of the game. 
Moving on.. . 
As OWbN has grown, the need for specific clan coordinators has developed. 
At present, OWbN has coordinators for the more specifically structured clans - 
Assamite, Giovanni and Tremere. This concept may soon be expanded to 
encompass other clans. Additionally, we have a coordinator for Sabbat activities 
and another for the Garou players. As OWbN continues to grow and different types 
of chronicles join in, the structure of OWbN will adjust appropriately. 
Additionally, to centralize and control the flow of information and clan 
activities, we have coordinators for each of the seven Storyteller-controlled 
justicars. These people act as clearinghouses for the various and nefarious wheelings 
and dealings of these ancients, and they give many of OWbN’s players a focus for 
their gameplay - and they instill appropriate fear in the characters. The 
“JustiCoords” maintain regular contact with the Storytellers of OWbN as required 
and assist in resolving plot issues involving their offices. 
We generally keep the justicars’ actual appearances at games limited to 
conclaves. Archons or secretariats to the justicars are preferred forms of Camarilla 
enforcement if intervention or contact is required. Recent events in the OWbN 
continuum have seen a marked increase in the number and caliber of archons 
appearing in Camarilla domains. The death of Xavier, until recently the justicar 
for Clan Gangrel, has obviously shaken the heretofore impervious justicarate, and 
there is visible evidence of its unease. 
Therefore, OWbN has an infrastructure that exists to support all the people 
and characters associated within. Storytellers have access to many other Storytell- 
ers to be inspired by and to inspire. Players have access to thousands of other players 
to interact with, plot with and generally breathe life into what we call our One 
World by Night. 
Well, that’s pretty much how we run the organization, but you’d probably 
prefer to hear about the chronicles. 
OWbN is dominated at present by Camarilla-based vampire games. There are 
exceptions to this - 
a few games are primarily Sabbat or Garou in focus, a couple 
are anarch in nature, and some games mix’n’match genres. 
The primary rulebooks we use are The Masquerade Second Edition and 
Laws of the Night. Other books see inclusion as the Storytellers see fit and as 
discussed by the Council -for 
example, some aspects of Laws of Elysium are 
generally considered in OWbN to be restricted to Storyteller characters rather 
than open to players. OWbN’s vampire games are directed primarily at the 
younger Kindred. There are restrictions on the play of true elders and on some 
of the types of Kindred permissible in any chronicle - 
for example, True 
Brujah or Salubri. Similar rules will apply to other supernaturals as they are 
developed and enter OWbN. 


Variants on the White Wolf MET rulebooks are permitted within 
reason. We recommend that chronicles stick fairly closely to the White Wolf 
products so that there is some internal consistency in the way the game is 
played. It was very pleasant to find that most of the rules I encountered in 
Chicago and Baltimore worked much the way they work way over here in 
Hamilton. Variations in the interpretations of the rules also opened my eyes 
to the possibilities of other interpretations that I hadn’t considered. I never 
claimed to be a rules lawyer, but I found some of the ways the systems were 
played very educational. 
Never discount a learning experience. Most of our people are happy to share 
their ideas, and though we have our fair share of squabbles over some things, any 
idea that might enrich your game or your gameplay is important. Many of our 
chronicles adopt systems from others in OWbN. 
We hope to expand our horizons beyond Vampire. With the release in 1998 
of a number of White Wolfs MET products, we now have a considerably greater 
scope with which to work, play and flourish. This will involve some changes in our 
internal structure, but we bid Flexible on that matter. 
Our Garou coordinator, Krissy Ryan, is working busily on further integration 
of Garou chronicles into the fold. As I write this, we’ve recently welcomed another 
Garou game. The Kenosha: Bad Moon Rising game had been playing alongside 
Kenosha: The Eternal Aria for some time and was gladly given admittance, as the 
players had played by OWbN rules for some time and had remained in regular 
contact with OWbN both in and out of character. This put them in good stead 
when their game’s number came up. 
At present, Matt and I are discussing the possibility of adding a Changeling 
game. We’re not averse to a Wraith game joining in, but we foresee some 
difficulties with character interaction because of the Shroud. We’ll cross that 
bridge when we come to it, I guess. 


In numbers, our games range wildly and widely. Some chronicles have less 
than a dozen people; others number around a hundred regulars, including 
visitors from nearby games. We don’t have an accurate count of our total 
membership, but estimates place us at over 2,000 players in over 50 games in 
six different countries. 
At present, OWbN is slightly fractured because of language barriers between 
some of our chronicles. With the advent of translation sites on the Internet - 
my 
personal favorite is http://babelfish.altavista.com - 
I hope to see much of that 
barrier crumble over the next year, and it should encourage a broader scope of 
interaction all around. 
OWbN tries to hold at least one conclave a year. In 1998, we held two fairly 
large conclaves (Chicago and Baltimore) and ran a huge game at GenCon in 
August. These games are organized by enthusiastic teams of Storytellers with too 
much time on their hands and too much caffeine in their systems. More large 
gatherings of this nature are in the cards for 1999, although details are still being 
worked out. We’ll post all upcoming major events on our website. 
In between such events, players are often road-tripping to other cities just for 
the hell of it. Just traveling between OWbN cities is an experience in itself - 
meeting new people both in and out of character and experiencing the unique 
flavor of a new game can often prove a refreshing and eye-opening experience. 
Travel the world, see the sights, play a little Vampire and make a lot of new friends. 
And you don’t necessarily have to travel to other games to affect them - 
email communications and expenditure of Influence or use of city contacts 
through the Storytellers can have as much of an impact as being there would. 
It has been my personal pleasure to attend the two American conclaves this 
year, and I am proud of the efforts of all concerned in the organization and 
execution of the events. I would like at this time to formally thank all of you who 
invited me and forked over for the plane tickets.. . twice.. .. 
I’m still humbled by that experience. 
Some of our chronicles are also in contact with various independent games 
in their areas. Though our official stance is that these games don’t necessarily 
exist in our continuity (at least, until they join OWbN, he smiles), we in no way 
discourage our people from talking with other games and other groups. After all, 
we don’t have all the answers to all the questions - 
why limit our opportunities 
to learn? 
OWbN is developing a good relationship with White Wolf, and we are 
pleased to have been of assistance in the past in terms of playtesting and 
opinion. A few of its staff are on hand, either as friends or accomplices, and we 
acknowledge the help that they have given us in the past. We hope to continue 
this productive and convivial friendship in the future. I guess the opportunity 
given me to write this article means we must have some degree of respect in 
White Wolfs eyes (heh). 
OWbN is perhaps very reflective of the World of Darkness as given us by 
White Wolf. We don’t slavishly follow the books as written in terms of Storyteller 
characters or sourcebooks (or our Milwaukee and Chicago games would be very 
different if we did), but are instead working on our own continuity, using many of 
the White Wolf sources to fill in the gaps. 


As an example, we took the opportunity in 1997 to echo the 13-year meeting 
of the Inner Circle to change several of the justicars. Clan Toreador kept Madame 
Guil, who originally appeared in Diablerie: Britain, and Clan Malkavian kept 
Justicar Lucian, a character from the card game. The Ventrue opted to choose Tai 
Pan Robert Pedder as their next lawmaker. Other than those characters, the other 
justicars (Masako, Clan Brujah; Kharel, Gangrel; Ctarinov, Nosferatu; Malaphar, 
Tremere) were created within OWbN to fill the positions. 
New concepts presented by White Wolf (such as the many alterations to the 
WoD as presented in the revised edition of Vampire: The Masquerade) are 
discussed by the Council and the Storyteller teams before anything is introduced 
to the mainstream of the games. However, OWbN’s in-character politics do have 
a natural progression that is becoming very similar to a number of things that 
White Wolf has presented. 
So what’s happening in One World by Night as the millennium approaches? 
Some Kindred truly believe the Final Nights are drawing near as the numbers 
of the Caitiff grow and the clans of the Camarilla become more fractious each week. 
The elders seem aloof and uncaring, the justicars play unknown games behind 
closed doors, the Sabbat is around eachcorner- in many cases well rooted in place 
among its unsuspecting opposites. 
Meanwhile, the Garou struggle to preserve their heritage as their own enemies 
plant themselves more securely than ever in the cities and drive the werewolves 
from their cairns. Their war against the Wyrm continues unabated. 
The Gangrel ofAmerica face desperate times as their elders are slowly stripped 
from them by negative forces. The loss of many of their elders in recent times has 
shaken the Gangrel’s dedication and loyalty to the Camarilla. 
Clan Brujah struggles to remain a cohesive whole, its members torn between 
their loyalties to the Camarilla and to their clan. Browbeaten by their elders and 
tongue-lashed by their anarch brothers, their loyalty also sways. 


Clan Tremere fights to maintain a united front while dealing with public 
ridicule and suspicion. The Tremere often find themselves leaned upon to provide 
solutions to matters of the supernatural and then discarded unceremoniously by 
the other clans once they are no longer useful. 
Clan Ventrue endeavors to stand proud and aloof as certain elements 
undermine its efforts at dominance- the prevalence ofventrue princes in the Old 
World is far from echoed in the New, an embarrassment at best. 
The Nosferatu ... well, nobody really knows what they are up to, but there is 
some evidence that they may be closing ranks for some reason. 
The decadence of these last decades has distracted many of Clan Toreador. 
Has true art died with the rest of the world? Many of them ask that question in this 
twilight of the Muses. 
And the Malkavians? What of them? They’re changing, but from what and to 
what? Who can tell, anyway? 
OWbN is set in the modern day, very much so. Many of our chronicles utilize 
the real world’s activities as tie-ins for their plots. Our players are enthusiastic and 
energetic and many small plots spill from city to city. Mix in a little Storyteller 
magic and our World of Darkness comes to life. Would that I could tell you all of 
some of the awesome plots going on, but I think I’d get lynched. 
We have our own character personalities developing - 
(1n)famous names 
and coteries, such as the NWO in Baltimore, the First Family in Chicago, the 
dubious House Malice, the dread archon Uma Nottingham, the Legion Sisters, 
Maddy Zurich, Dana Stone, Archbishop Santiago, the irrepressible Malkiepoos.. . . 
The list goes on, and I could probably talk for hours, but I’m not quite up to 
writing the sourcebook yet. 
In closing, I would like to thank Joyce Summers, Matt Giezentaner, Ross 
Anderson and Lance Larsen, among others, for their contributions to this article. 
I’d also like to thank One World by Night - 
though you motley lot may be a pain 
in the neck at times, you’re all wonderful people this side of the Masquerade. 


NUNNFHI EOR The 
shininq H O S ~  
by Peter Woodworth 
Considering the popularity of Mind’s Eye Theatre’s The Shining 
Host and the resurgence in fascination with Native American culture and 
mythology, I couldn’t think of a better summer feature than one on how to 
incorporate the Nunnehi into a LARP setting. And when Peter Woodworth, 
the author ofThe Shining Host, agreed to write the piece for me, I jumped 
at the opportunity. 
T H E  PEOPLE 
The Nunnehi (which means “people who live anywhere”) are the faerie folk 
indigenous to Concordia, having dwelled here many centuries before the first 
Europeans or their Kithain cousins ever set foot on it. Like the Kithain, the 
Nunnehi were torn between two worlds, the Earthly realm and the Higher Hunting 
Ground (Nunnehi Dreaming), and they struggled daily to preserve the old ways. 
To keep faerie spirits alive in those long#ago days, wise Native Americans acted as 
hosts for Nunnehi spirits, allowing them to use their bodies until the spirits were 
passed on naturally to children. Over time, the Nunnehi fire nearly died out, but 
a recent surge of Native American pride has done much to revitalize it, and now 
the Nunnehi Nations stand ready to claim their rightful place once more. 
Nunnehi make excellent additions to Mind’s Eye Theatre games that take 
place in areas of great natural significance, and many of the native fae preserve a level 
of innocence and trust in the natural order that even other changelings lack. What’s 
more, many of them have grudges and alliances with the Kithain stretching back to 
before the days of the Revolutionary War, thus presenting a uniquely historical 
aspect to any modem game. Centered as they are on the spiritual world, the Nunnehi 
also present an excellent change of pace for players used to “typical” Changeling 
stories -or an excellent challenge to motleys who think they’ve seen everything the 
Dreaming has to offer! Facing Nunnehi forces Kithain to examine the high costs of 
the modem culture that they are a part of, and playing a Nunnehi demands action 
before yet more of the world is allowed to fall to the tainted touch of “progress.” 
Among the Nunnehi themselves, old tribal blood feuds persist, occasionally 
spilling over into the chimerical realm and forcing them to wonder who the true 
enemies are - 
the Europeans without or the hotheads within. Conversely, many 
Nunnehi Nations are much closer than their kith counterparts, and quests shared 
by heroes of allied Nations are the stuff of legend. 
THE 
MANY 
WORLDS 
Nunnehi believe there are three worlds: the Upper World of totems, visions and 
spirits, the Middle (physical) World of humanity and the Lower World of the dead. 
The Upper World is largely a reflection of the Middle World, but it is much more 
vivid and profound, offering a glimpse of the true nature of things. Some of the Upper 
NUNNEHI 
Eon THE 
SHINNING 
HOST 


World is beyond imagination, the home ofgreat gods and heroes. The Lower World, 
by contrast, is also a reflection, but it is ashen, dull and decaying, a place of sadness 
and despair. Great trods connect all places in the spirit world, and visiting it is an 
important part of a Nunnehi’s life. All things living and dead are part of the great 
cycle. Nunnehi who possess at least Basic Wayfare and one level of the Nature Realm 
may cross into the Upper World by stepping into a quantity of their chosen totem: 
a flowering bush, rock face or a waterfall. In addition, all Nunnehi may cross over 
using a body of pure water. Note: Nunnehi cannot cross into the Lower World on 
their own, although they may use the Spirit Link Art to speak to its ghosts. 
System: The Nunnehi must perform a Bunk and win a Static Mental Challenge 
using the Mythlore Ability against a difficulty of the Banality level of the area in order 
to cross over. (If the Nunnehi possesses the Portal Passage Art and the Verdant Forest 
level of the Nature Realm, all difficulties are lowered by two.) The Nunnehi may bring 
others along, as long as they hold hands and the Nunnehi spends one Medicine Trait 
for each passenger. Those characters who cannot cross over on their own are stuck if 
the Nunnehi abandons them, and they must seek out a special trod to get home. 
(More detail on the Upper World - 
or the Umbra - 
can be found in Laws 
of the Wild; for the Lower World, consult Oblivion.) 
C ~ L A M O U R A N D  BANALITY 
Nunnehi refer to Glamour as “Medicine,” and they may gather it from artistic 
performances as Kithain do, although they are two Traits down to do so unless the 
artist is Native American and performing a traditional piece. Furthermore, the 
difficulty to enchant mortals increases by one inside the confines of a city. 
Most Nunnehi prefer to gather Medicine from natural sources. They have three 
ways of doing so: Harvesting, Raiding and Blessing. Harvesting (equivalent to Reverie) 
is handled with the same systems, except a Static Mental Challenge is employed and 
Harvesting requires at least one hour spent in contact with the natural scene being 
enjoyed (lying in a field of flowers, dipping toes in a stream, sunning on a rock). 
Raiding, the equivalent of Ravaging, also uses the same systems, but the 
Nunnehi runs the additional risk of attracting the ire of angry spirits if she fails the 
Raiding challenge. (Narrator’s discretion, but typically distracting and unpleas- 
ant.) Blessing uses the same mechanics as Rapture, but it can only be achieved 
through a direct audience with the Nunnehi’s totem spirit while in the Upper 
World and only once per season. Totems usually honor such requests for an 
audience, but they expect no less than the absolute best in exchange for their time! 
N U N N B H I  
CAMPS 
Nunnehi do not recognize a Seeliewnseelie distinction, instead using the Summer 
(or Dogwood), Winter (or Rock) and Midseason (or Laurel) camps. Summer Nunnehi 
tend to be outgoing, warm and friendly; Winter Nunnehi tend to be withdrawn, cold and 
unforgiving. Midseason fae are tricksters one and all, balancing the two camps as they see 
fit. Many Nunnehi follow camps on a seasonal basis, although this is by no means a 
requirement. For example, many Nunnehi adopt their Winter aspect when recently 
wronged or insulted, and some mume their Summer mien when falling in love or taking 
on quests. A few uncommon Nunnehi adhere to the same camp nearly or completely 
year-round. Nunnehi may change their camp freely as Kithain do, although most prefer 
a private ritual of transition before showing off their new camp allegiance. 


It is important to note that Nunnehi are not openly divided between Summer 
and Winter factions like the Kithain are with the Seelie/Unseelie dichotomy. 
Nunnehi of different camps may have trouble seeing eye-to-eye on certain issues, 
but all recognize the role each has to play in the greater cycle. 
N U N N E H I  
S E E M I N ~ S  
Nunnehi have three seemings, just like Kithain do. During creation, add one 
additional Glamour (called “Medicine”) Trait to the usual starting totals, a boon 
of the Nunnehi’s spirit ties. 
Youngling: Children are the treasures of the Nation, and they are defended 
by all, regardless of camp or family. Most are given silly names to shield them from 
jealous spirits, and all are considered to be of the Midseason camp. 
Brave: The dynamic, creative force of the Nations, braves are great lovers and 
fighters who strive to put a new face on the old ways. Braves are given new names 
based on accomplishments or reputation, and they may choose their camp freely. 
Elder: These Nunnehi are revered for their great wisdom, and they seek to 
keep old legends alive for the next generation. They may choose their own name, 
and most settle into one camp for the majority of their time, leading and teaching 
other Nunnehi. 
NUNNEHI 
EAMILIES 
Nunnehi do not recognize kiths, but Families. A whole Family is called a 
Nation, thus the origin of the title “Nunnehi Nations.” 
c A N O T I L I  ( T R E E  DWELLERS) 
These mischievous forest dwellers of the Midwest aid or hinder hunters who 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 
Earth Blend: By remaining perfectly still, the canotili may change color to 
match her surroundings like a chameleon. There is no cost, but the player must cross 
her arms to signify this Birthright’s use as if she were using Veiled Eyes, and movement 
of any kind cancels this power immediately. This only functions in areas of natural 
wilderness. This is a Wyrd Birthright, but only if the Nunnehi attempts to hide in 
view of mortals; canotili already hidden remain so even if mortals enter the area. 
Physical Enhancement: All canotili gain the additional PhysicalTraits: Wiry 
and Rugged, which can never be lost permanently. 
Frailties: 
Terror: When surprised, canotili exude a pheromone that causes powerful fear 
in non-canotili around her; all such creatures must win a Simple Test (or spend a 
WillpowerTrait) or flee in terror. Supernaturalcreaturesdonotflee but insteadstrike 
out instinctively at the canotili, receiving a free retest on the first combat challenge 
resulting from the surprise. Canotili cannot control this fear response in any way. 
venture into their territory. 
I N U A ~  
( S P I R I T  HELPERS) 
magical and shapeshifting powers. 
Acting as advisors to tribal shamans, these faeries of the far north exhibit great 
Affinity: Fae 
N U N N E H I  
F O R  THE S H I N N I N C ~  
HOST 
@ 


Birthrights: 
Imbue Amulet: Inua may invest an amulet for a chosen shaman with a single 
Art, selected fromchicanery, Legerdemain, Primal, Soothsay, Sovereign, Spirit Linkor 
Wayfare. The power must also have a specific Realm attached (such as the Familiar 
Face level of the Actor Realm) and is only good for that particular Realm; each 
amulet is only good for one use. Investing an amulet is considered a sacred trust by 
the inua, not a means for greedy players to create a magic amulet factory. 
Change Form: Inua may freely change shape into one animal of a local type, chosen 
at character creation. A second shape may be learned during character creation as afive- 
Trait Merit. Finally, an additional shape may be learned at acmt of four Experience Traits 
when a character becomes a brave or an elder. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Frailties : 
Susceptibility: Inua within a few yards of a pollutant (air pollution counts!) 
suffer a one-Trait penalty to all challenges; those inua actually in direct contact 
with a pollutant are at a two-Trait penalty. 
KACHINAS 
Helpful faeries of the Southwest, the ethereal kachinas bring rain and plenty 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Prayer ofplenty: Withastatic Mentalchallenge ofthe 0CcultAbilit-y (difficulty 7), 
a kachina may cause a boom in plant growth and ramfall in an area, ensuring gccd crops. 
The kachina does this only if her tribe performs the proper dances and ceremonies first. 
Cloud Form: With a Medicine Trait, the Nunnehi may transform into a cloud 
or wisp of smoke. They are immune to physical attacks and may float in this shape, 
but they are at the mercy of any prevailing winds and must return to a safe altitude 
before changing back or else suffer falling damage. Changing back slowly costs 
nothing, although an instantaneous reversion costs the Nunnehi one Mental Trait. 
This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
to communities that honor the ancient ways. 
Frailties: 
Single Mind: Kachinas must choose one craft- or performance-related Ability upon 
which they are especially focused; they must purchase at least one level of this Ability and 
are one Trait up on all challenges involving it. However, they are two Traits down on all 
other craft- or performance-related challenges because of their singular focus. 
MAY-MAY- WAY-SHI (ROCK EISHERS) 
Talented fishermen, these Northeastern faeries dwell deep within the rocks 
Affinity: Scene 
Birthrights: 
Door in the Rock: The Nunnehi may make a Static Physical Challenge 
(difficulty 4) to pass through a rock wall to the other side (or into a cave, if such 
is the case); he may also extend a single arm or leg through the wall. By spending 
two Physical Traits, the Nunnehi may take a vehicle (and anyone in it) safely 
through the wall, as well. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Call the Swimmers: By spending a Social Trait, the Nunnehi may summon 
a netful of fish to himself in a body of water. 
they love. 


Frailties: 
Weakness of Will: When confronted by a seafood 
feast or an unguarded fish supply, the Nunnehi must 1 
spend a Willpower Trait to avoid indulging himself 
(and leaving himself open to all manner of ambush). 
NANEHI 
These sociable Nunnehi of the Southeast 
can alter their shape and enjoy attending 1 
human festivals. 
Affinity: Fae 
Birthrights: 
Shape the Body: By spending a Medi- 
cine Trait, the nanehi may alter her body to 
be anywhere between two feet in height to 
normal human size, may make herself look 
older or younger and may temporarily add 
(or subtract) a Gorgeous SocialTrait. Any- 
one looking for the nanehi must win a 
Mental Challenge to recognize her if her 
form has been altered significantly, and the 
changed nanehi should wear a description card 7 
or otherwise clearly indicate her altered state to 
other players. This is a Wyrd Birthnght. 
Voice of Beauty: Nanehi are one Trait up 
on all Perfanrme challenges; twoTraits up if the 
performance involves traditional tales or dances. 
Frailties: 
Face in the Water: Nanehi are vain crea- 
tures and are one Trait down to resist any Social ’ 
Challenges involving flattery; they also have a 
one-Trait penalty to all challenges while their ap- 
pearance is affected adversely (if they are covered with 
mud, for example). 
N U M U Z O ’ H O  ( ~ R u s H E R s o f  PEOPLE) 
Masters of the elements, these troll-like giants of the far west pay 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Extraordinary Size: Numuzo’ho gain the Physical Traits: Brawny, Muscular, 
Tough and Tireless. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Rouse the Elements: By spending a Willpower Trait and a Medicine Trait, 
the numuzo’ho may cause an elemental disturbance like a storm or earthquake. 
What occurs is at the Storyteller’s discretion, but this power may be used only 
once per phase of the moon, and using it for selfish or inappropriate goals angers 
a terrible price for their strength. 


Frailties: 
Weight of Years: Upon becoming an elder, the numuzo’ho either loses an arm, 
leg or eye to age and decrepitude. This change cannot be healed or averted in any 
way, and it should be represented by using the appropriate Flaw (like Lame or One 
Eye), but the character gains no Traits for it. 
p u’ gwrs 
These cursed fae of the far north are hideous to behold, yet they possess 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Song of Beckoning: Pu’gwis may call others to them with a hypnotic song; this 
does not affect most supernatural creatures, but mortals may be called with a 
successful Social Challenge against their Willpower. 
Song of Dismissal: The pu’gwis may remove all memories of himself from the 
people around him with a successful Social Challenge, which targets may resist with 
Willpower. Targets summoned by the Song of Beckoninguse only half their Traits to 
resist, and anyone - 
even other supernaturals - 
may be affected by this power. 
entrancingly beautiful voices. 
Frailties: 
Decay: No pu’gwis may have more than three strength-related Physical Traits, 
and in kith form they automatically gain the Negative Social Traits: Repugnant x 3. 
This is a Wyrd Frailty, although pu’gwis have the Repugnant Trait even in human 
form and may never take any beneficial appearance-related Social Traits. 
R O C K  GIANTS 
not unlike redcaps. 
Fearsome fae of the Northeast, these stony giants have tastes and dispositions 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Flint Coat: Rock giants gain an additional health level, and any attacks by 
stone weapons do no damage whatsoever. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Prowess: All braves gain the Physical Trait: Brawny, which may never be lost 
permanently; elders gain an additional Brawny Trait. Rock giants also gain a free 
level of the Brawl Ability, which may never be lost permanently. 
Frailties: 
Hothead: If their bravery or prowess is questioned, rock giants assume their 
Winter aspect automatically and focus on nothing else but proving their might to 
the offender. No apologies or explanations suffice - 
at least one blow must be 
struck against the offender or a chosen champion before the rock giant can rest. 
SUREMS 
(YAQUI LITTLE PEOPLE) 
Southwestern faeries who despise violence and noise, these Nunnehi possess 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Serenity: By spending a Social Trait and succeeding on a Static Social 
Challenge, the surem may exude an air of serenity for five paces around herself, 
forcing anyone already within that range (or who enters later) to spend a 
uncommon strength nonetheless. 


Willpcwer Trait to become or remain angry or agitated. This aura includes the 
surem herself and lasts for one scene. 
Congeniality: Surems receive a free retest on all Social Challenges related to 
maintaining peace, trust or friendship. 
Frailties: 
Plowshares: Surems must win a Simple Test to resort to violence (includ- 
ing speaking harshly) and are one Trait down on all tests when acting in a 
violent manner. 
TUNGHAT 
( C ~ R E E N  
DWARVES, 
OWNERS) 
These Midwestern faeries have close ties to the animal world and the 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Animal Illusion: By spending a Medicine Trait, the tunghat makes others 
(including animals) see him as a version of an animal of acertain type. This illusion 
is always slightly flawed, and characters with Heightened Senses and similar talents 
may see through it with a Mental Challenge. 
Summon the Herd: By spending a Social Trait, the tunghat may bond 
with a type of animal; by winning a Static Social Challenge, the tunghat 
may summon animals of that type who are within a half-day’s travel, 
determine their general health and appeal to them to give up their lives for 
the good of others. 
hunting cycle. 
Frailties: 
Animal Mind: A tunghat who maintains an animal illusion for more than one 
hour must win a Static Mental Challenge or forget that he is not actually an animal 
of that type. If that happens, he begins acting in an animal manner and even 
wanders toward any nearby hunters. 
WATER 
BABIES 
Messengers to the spirit world, these faeries of the far west are known for 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Synthesize Air: Water babies and anyone they are touching may breathe 
freely underwater. 
Strength of the Wave: Water babies are two Traits up on all Physical Challenges to 
dragapemnunderwatertodrownher.They may use this bonusonly asrevengeforacrime. 
If the target isn’t guilty, the bonus does not manifest, a sure sign that the target is innocent. 
Frailties: 
Water Dependency: Water babies kept for more than 48 hours from immersing 
themselves in water begin to die, losing one Physical Trait every day. Once all these Traits are 
gone, the water baby is unable to move and dies in another 24 hours if not returned to water. 
stealing children. 
Y U N W I  A M A I ’ Y I N E ’ H I  ( W A T E R  PE O PL E )  
Of Southeastern origin, these playful, water-loving Nunnehi can assume the 
Affinity: Nature 
form of water creatures. 
~ 
N U N N E H I  
F O R  THE S H I N N I N G  
HOST 


 
__ . . . . c 
Birthrights: 
Shape of the Swimmer: These Nunnehi may assume the shape of one water creature 
by expending a Medicine Trait, provided no wimesses other than animals or other yunwi 
amai’yine’hi watch. All benefits of the form are gained. Changing back costs nothing. 
Stir the Waters: As the numuzo’ho Birthright: Rouse the Ekmnts, except the 
effect created may be water-based only, and no Willpower Trait is required. 
Frailties: 
Snare of the Hunter: If the Nunnehi becomes the prey of a hunter while in 
animal form, she must make a Static Willpower Challenge to avoid succumbing to 
panic and thinking only as an animal. In this state, she cannot use her Arts or other 
talents, only her animal form’s natural advantages. Once at least temporarily safe, 
the Nunnehi may spend a Willpower Trait to regain her senses. 
YUNWI 
TSUNDSI 
(LITTLE 
PEOPLE) 
These handsome, nockerlike faeries of the southeast are adept at craftsman- 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 
Out of Sight: By spending a Willpower Trait, the Nunnehi may become 
effectively invisible to mortals, gaining the benefits of Veiled Eyes for the remainder 
of the scene. Note that supematurals are not affected by this Birthright, only mortals. 
Clever Hands: All yunwi tsundsi receive a free level of Crafts that may never 
be permanently lost and are one Trait up on all Crafts challenges. 
Frailties: 
Flames of Anger: If slighted by someone he seeks to help, the Nunnehi must make a 
Static Willpower Challenge or inflict a series of accidents on the target; these acts are not 
fatal but designed to teach the offender the value ofproper manners. This compulsion lasts 
for one entire passage of the moon or until the offender makes a formal offering of apology. 
ship and staying out of sight of mortals. 
N E W  ART: SPIRIT 
LINK 
This Art allows the Nunnehi to interact with their ancestors and the spirit 
world in general, and it is an important part of the upbringing rites of most of the 
Nations. Only Nunnehi may leam this Art, unless the given changeling has been 
adopted by a Nunnehi Nation. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
BASIC 
World Sight: With this power, the Nunnehi may see into the Upper, Lower or 
Middle Worlds anddiscem the true nature of the things she looks at. The rough amount 
of Medicine or spirit power inherent to a place may also be sensed. When used on an 
individual, this Art may detect spirit possession, curses or even whether the target is a 
supernatural being (and what type, if any) if the Nunnehi defeats her target in a Mental 
Challenge. The Nunnehi must be physically present to sense objects or targets in the 
Middle World but need not be so for the Upper or Lower Worlds. 
Type: Chimerical 
Ancestor Speech: By completing a Bunk and spending a Medicine Trait, the 
Nunnehi may summon tribal ancestors and consult their wisdom regarding a specific 
matter. These ancestor spirits may only answer questions pertaining to, or provide 


visions of, the past up to the moment - 
in answering, they are limited to their own 
perspectives and experiences and do not have any special inside knowledge about 
things. They also cannot see the future or even the present moment; however, the 
wisdom of the past is quite valuable in itself. Nunnehi spirits may be contacted only 
if the faerie soul was destroyed, in which case the mortal spirit is available to this Art. 
Obviously, the Storyteller or a Narrator should roleplay the conversation, and the 
Nunnehi may ask no more questions than she has permanent Mental Traits. 
Type: Chimerical 
I N T E R M E D I A T E  
Vision Quest: See the Augury Art of Soohay. (Yes, Nunnehi gain this power 
more easily.) Storytellers are encouraged to make vision quests as vivid and intense as 
possible; additionally, the Bunk for this Art is always a traditional vision quest of some 
kind - 
fasting, smoke house rituals, etc. -determined by the Narrator according to 
the tribe of the Nunnehi in question. Note: All the rules of live-action conduct still 
apply to Vision Quest - 
do not actually starve yourself, take peyote or anything else! 
Type: Chimerical 
Placate: This Art allows the Nunnehi to appease angry spirits and hungry ghosts, 
acting as a liaison to the spirit world in order to determine what is necessary to placate 
them. A Bunk and a Mental Trait are required to establish contact with the spirit(s) 
inquestion, at which time most gladly tell theNunnehi what needs to be done in order 
to satiate their needs. Even the angriest spirits do not usually attack a Nunnehi using 
this Art, out of respect for his intentions, but woe indeed to the faerie who uses this 
power and then ignores what the spirits have asked for! Likewise, if the Nunnehi and 
his tribe abide by what the spirits ask for, the spirits are honor-bound to leave them in 
peace, a bargain only the most vile spirits would dare break. This Art is a sacred trust 
to most tribes, and though it gives the faerie no power over the spirits, it is an important 
step toward establishing a settlement between the two worlds when they are at odds. 
Type: Chimerical 
ADVANCED 
Ghost Dance: This powerful ability allows the Nunnehi to assert control over the 
spirit world, banish supernatural creatures from the area and otherwise demonstrate 
mastery of the ethereal plane. This Art costs two Medicine Traits to use and requires a 
Mental Challenge against the target - 
spirits and wraiths may be ordered to cease 
troubling the human world, and those spirits who have inhabited bodies or otherwise 
snuck onto the mortal coil may be banished back to the Lower World. supernatural 
creatures may be forced to leave the area for the rest of the session, though they may resist 
with a Willpower Trait. Should the Nunnehi fail to banish an especially powerful ghost 
(Narrator's discretion), however, she must win or tie a Simple Test- failure means that 
she is drawn into the Lower World herself and must fight her way back. Should she die 
in the Lower World, her faerie self is destroyed forever. At the Storyteller's discretion, this 
Art may be used to summon ghosts to aid the Nunnehi or her tribe, but the costs and 
details of such workings are strictly up to the Storyteller to determine. 
Type: Chimerical (could become Wyrd in some cases) 
NUNNEHI 
BUNKS 
A complete list of Nunnehi Bunks can be found on pages 178 to 179 of the 
Player's Guide for Changeling: The Dreaming; in general, however, players and 
N U N N E H I  
Eon THE SHINNING 
HOST 
8 


. . c 
Narrators withNunnehi characters should try to use Bunks quite different from the 
ones their Kithain counterparts use. Not all of their Bunks necessarily need to be 
native rituals of some kind, but they should definitely have a different flavor than 
typical changeling Bunks to reflect the spiritual ties of the Nunnehi and their 
different outlook on Glamour in general. Examples of Bunks with that sort of flavor 
include, blowing smoke from a peace pipe to set the mood for use of the Sovereign 
Art, wearing a hand-crafted mask when performing a trick of the Chicanery Art 
or executing the steps of a tribal dance in order to use the Wayfare Art. 
Nu N N  e H I BAC 
~ c j  
R O  u N D s 
Nunnehi have several unique Backgrounds to choose from during cre- 
ation. They may not take the Remembrance Background and should secure 
Storyteller permission before taking Title, Political Connections or a non- 
Nunnehi Patron. 
HOUSEHOLD 
This Background denotes a number of human relations who are close to the 
character; they may or may not know the truth about her faerie nature but are 
friendly and loyal nonetheless. Of course, they expect the same from the character 
in return, and they may turn against her if ill-treated. Players should work with the 
Storyteller to determine who these people are, where they live and what they do 
for a living. The Storyteller may modify these numbers or even forbid certain levels 
of this Background if they prove too problematic for the chronicle. The number of 
Traits spent determines the number of people in the Household: 
One Trait 
Two members 
Two Traits 
Four members 
Three Traits Eight members 
Four Traits 
16 members 
Five Traits 
32 members 
S P I R I T  
COMPANION 
See the Companion Background, except that the Companion is not a chimera 
but a natural spirit of some kind, like a fire spirit, a wind elemental or a water spirit. 
In addition to the powers of that Background, the spirit may store additional 
Medicine or Willpower Traits for the character - the character need only 
concentrate to will the energy to his Companion and can reclaim it at any time. A 
Companion can hold twice as many Medicine Traits as the number of Traits a player 
puts into the Background. 
VISION 
This replaces the Remembrance Background for Nunnehi, except that any 
knowledge gained pertains to the Higher Hunting Grounds, Nunnehi families and 
other appropriate material. 
TOTEM 
The Nunnehi has a spiritual link to a higher entity, typically a tribal 
totem or spirit guide of some kind. The number of Traits spent represents the 
power of the entity involved and the strength of the bond itself. See Player’s 
Guide for Changeling: The Dreaming pages 145, 152 and 153 for more 
details on totems. 


COR.€ IDEA 
There’s more to building longevity than simply deciding, “It’s time to run a new 
live-action game.” Indeed, lack of initial design dooms many games to eventual 
deathdown the road. Though it mayseemanunnecessaryeffort, there’sno substitute 
for preparedness in running a chronicle, and the first step in proper preparation is 
isolating the core idea of the game. 
A game’s core idea defines and guides the chronicle. Although certain themes 
come naturally to each of the Mind’s Eye Theatre settings, a prepared Storyteller 
picks and chooses the ones that he desires to showcase. The idea is to pare down to 
the essential elements. Start by separating into story elements and mechanical 
elements, then work up brief lists of desired material. 
MECHANICAL 
ELEMENTS 
The first piece of superstructure for a chronicle lies in the game mechanics. Pick 
the game you plan to run with an eye toward possible themes and players - 
Laws of 
the Wild explores powerful themes of isolationism and the danger of fanatacism, but 
it may be difficult to showcase them consistently; Laws of the Night games may draw 
numerous players, but it can be difficult to develop new and unique story elements. 
At the start, you need only consider broad story elements. Most games use some 
variation of the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules, yet there’s no problem in altering the rules 
to suit the game. Decide how much to alter the rules for the game - 
rules are only a 
framework, after all, designed for ease of play. Are manipulation and intrigue going to 
beparamount?Ifso, thenhfluencerulesshouldprobablybe more heavilydetailed. Are 
the characters supposed to be more experienced and potent than normal? Change the 
character-creation rules. Play with the framework as necessary, but once the game 
begins, don’t change the rules unless it’s absolutely necessary - 
consistency, though the 
hobgoblin of little minds, is part of the virtue of fairness in play. 
STORY 
ELEMENTS 
A chronicle’s story elements are the dramatic pieces that the Storyteller wishes 
to emphasize. For instance, a Vampire story may showcase redemption, inhumanity, 
mystery. romance or even a combination of the above; a Wraith story could focus 
on loss, reconciliation, helplessness and hope. In truth, any venue can support just 


about any story type. The job of the Storyteller here is to decide what themes will 
be important to the game so that plot elements can build from those themes later. 
By way of example, if a story focuses on redemption, the players must be given 
opportunities for their characters to witness or perform horrible deeds so that the 
later redemption has meaning. 
When building story elements, remember that the ultimate point of the game 
is to have fun. Many Storytellers come up with intriguing plot ideas but become so 
intent on showcasing their unique creations that the players lose the ability to 
influence the direction of the game. Once all power of choice has been removed from 
the players, the game stops being fun. Thus, if a chronicle focuses on helplessness, 
the Storyteller must balance the players’ feelings of inability to affect their environ- 
ment with the needs of running an entertaining chronicle. 
Story elements should just be broad statements in the outline of the game - 
the 
actual focus on driving plot pieces comes later. Look at the broad picture of themes for 
the game, pick a few and write them down. It’s important to have more than one story 
element, because players have varied tastes and not all players want to be involved in 
every type of story. Similarly, recognize that individual Storytellers have different 
styles; the Narrators and Storytellers of the game must have plot elements with which 
they can effectively work. A Vampire game of romance, intrigue and betrayal is 
conceptually great, but it won’t last long if the Storytellers and Narrators aren’t 
comfortable running some of the themes or if the players don’t want that sort of game. 
GROUND Up 
With core themes and some basic mechanical tweaklng done, it’s time to look at the 
prospective plotsfor the game and the elements that will allow it to run over the long term. 
Preparing for a long-running game isn’t difficult, but it does require advance planning. 
This is the stage at which the Storyteller should set up the backstory and start 
soliciting players and assistants. Also, any regular live-action game needs a solid 
meeting place, so this is the phase for picking a location (and alternatives). Other 
mandatory paperwork - 
rules updates and the like - 
needs to be done before the 
game begins as well. 
PLOTTING 
STORY 
ARCS 
Story arcs come in three types for full chronicles, unsurprisingly divided into 
short-range, mid-range and long-range ones. A successful chronicle possesses all 
three and allows them to combine so as to form conflicting elements. After all, 
without conflict, the players may not feel a sense of accomplishment; the players 
need to be able to direct the game in some fashion, and they do so through their 
choices of plot resolution. 
The underpinnings of a chronicle play from the long-range plot elements. A 
long-range plot element is really a factor of the story, and it is predicated upon the 
core theme. Players can and do drive long-range plots, but the Storyteller needs to 
inject plot elements as well. After all, not every player immediately visualizes goals 
for her character. The long-range plot elements focus on the chronicle’s overall 
structure and guide the story; they also pull in the players who wish to participate in 
the overall story. Some sample long-range elements are: The Inconnu bring the hope 
of Golconda to a deserving Cainite (based on a redemption theme); local Garou 
become involved in the lives of their Kinfolk and their communities, fighting to 
defend those parts of human society (based on a romance theme); the local town is 


moving on, forcing the ghosts of the city to find ways to cope (based on a theme of 
loss); an arcane disturbance for which no one has yet found a cause or a cure afflicts 
the city (based on a theme of mystery). 
Mid-range plot elements last several sessions and take some work to resolve. As 
problems, they play on the driving elements of the game and spin off from the goals of 
particular players. Indeed, a goal that a player visualizes for a character can form a good 
mid-range plot. Mid-range plots need to be tracked carefully so that their pieces remain 
consistent from game to game. Examples of mid-range plots include: A vampire tries 
to learn an unusual Discipline (such as Necromancy) outside of his clan’s specialties 
(perhaps to further a long-range goal of Golconda or control over a particular element 
of the city); the Sabbat declares a crusade against the characters’ home city, and the 
siege must be resisted (possibly as part of an ongoing border war between Camarilla and 
Sabbat in the area); a Hierarchy official/archon/elder Garou visits for a time (perhaps 
lookingforalostlovedoneaspartofaromanceplot); auseful itemorpersondisappears, 
and several clues and puzzles must be found and understood in order for the thing to 
be found (perhaps to fulfill some piece of the puzzle in a mystery plot). 
A sh-range plot spans only a single game session or part of it. Such a plot element 
is usually subordinate to a larger plot device. Short-range plot elements can come in just 
about anytime with minimal effort; if they aren’t planned, though, they can seem odd or 
cause continuity problems later. The best plan for short-range plots is to look at the causes 
and effects of the various larger plot elements and play from those. Examples of short- 
range plot elements: ASabbatpackattackssomecharactersandmustberepelled(aspart 
of the Sabbat crusade plot); a Nihil opens briefly, disgorging some Spectres (possibly 
related to the ongoing plot of loss, with the Shadowlands falling to the town’s decay); an 
object is lost or stolen, but the clues point to a rapid recovery (as part of a mystery plot); 
a diplomatic envoy arrives and delivers a simple message, requiring a simple response 
(maybe pushing associations with a later romantic interest). 
For a good, solid start to a chronicle, pick two story arcs of each length and plot 
them out. Remember, short-range elements resolve quickly, so new ones may be 
needed at the next game; however, with luck, the existing mid-range and long-range 
elements drive the players to make their owngoals, thus spinning off some new short- 
range elements. However, never count on the players to drive the story. Although 
a player-driven story is generally the most rewarding, the Storyteller must be ready 
to introduce new random elements and hooks. 
REBUILDINC~THE 
RULES 
The chronicle’s been plotted, the goals are in place and the players are enthusi- 
astic. Now it’s time to sit down and actually tweak the rules that need modification. 
The first section to check out is character creation. The options allowed to 
playersgreatly affect the theme and mood of the game. In agame focused on intrigue, 
for instance, it makes sense to limit the amount of Influence that characters may start 
with so that they are forced to squabble over it later. A Storyteller running a game 
set in Germany during the Dark Ages should recommend that the characters take 
common languages. A game focusing on mystery or the solving of obscure riddles 
probably needs to limit the use of unusual powers and Merits by the characters, so 
that they have goals to attain in the course of the game. 
Next, lookover the Storytelling mechanics themselves. There’s almost no reason 
to change the core bidding system of the game or to mess with the various combat rules; 
these tend to run equally well for just about any game. However, the use of 


Backgrounds, Influence or special forms of equipment or Abilities might need review. 
A mystery-intensive chronicle could be derailed by a character with several levels of 
the Enigmas Ability; a game about redemption and romance could turn into a violence- 
fest if the souped-up equipment from Laws of the Hunt comes into play without too 
much thought. Change or ban elements that don’t fit the game’s core theme. 
LOCATION, 
LOCATION, 
LOCATION 
Ideally, a live-action game can be held in a large, multi-room, indoor, tempera- 
In the real world.. . 
Securing a site before scheduling the game is mandatory! It does no good to 
schedule a game but then be unable to tell players where to meet. Inclement weather 
and lack of space can also severely handicap a game, as can lack of a location to perform 
off-site actions and narration. Keep all these factors in mind when looking for a site. 
For locations with good weather, outdoor sites are sometimes possible. Parks 
and outdoor malls are often completely free, and they usually have plenty of space. 
However, there is always the risk of weather turning foul. Worse still, such games are 
not necessarily private - 
and never (but never) try to draw negative attention from 
the local populace. Most people don’t really have any idea of what live-action 
roleplaying means, and it’s not worth drawing in the police over “strange cult-like 
activities.” Go for a more secluded spot, or at least one where the outrageous 
behavior that inevitably crops up can go unnoticed. 
Some areas provide club buildings or community centers. Such places make 
excellent venues, but there is often a rental cost. This isn’t so bad if the players can be 
enticed to cough up a couple of bucks each. Still, be sure to check out the rental 
agreements on such places. Some buildings may require additional deposits or payments 
to cover possible damage; accidents can and do happen, and$700 in repair workcan spell 
doom for just about any LARP. Again, most people aren’t familiar with live-action 
roleplaying, and they automatically make negative associations; this ill shadow (as it 
were) can be a hindrance when filling out the event forms that many locations require. 
Of course, the best spot for a game is at someone’s house! A large enough house 
can easily host several dozen players, and if it’s not part of an apartment complex, 
the LARP‘s noise quotient and occasional odd behavior won’t draw any attention. 
The problem here is in convincing someone to open up a home for two dozen people, 
all of whom might be carrying and spilling drinks, tromping about in dirty shoes and 
grabbing scenery objects as part of their character portrayals. When using a house, 
be sure to set specific ground rules and to make them known before each and every 
event. Doing so saves grief (and cleaning bills) later; players should be penalized for 
inappropriate behavior. Players can complain about their characters being mis- 
treated, but when their in game activities cause out-of-game distress, it’s time to trim 
it back. Also, the homeowner should receive some incentive for making the site 
available; an extra experience point for the session or other game treat is a good 
compromise, as is forming a volunteer crew to help clean up and to provide food or 
furnishings necessary for the events. 
ture-controlled regular setting that’s absolutely free. 
RECRUITMENT 
With a location and a solid game design in mind, it’s time to recruit players and 
assistants. The business of recruitment varies according to the style of game you 


desire, 1:hough. After all, an invitation-only game has no need for lavish posters all 
over the place. 
Open games generally let just about anyone in. Such games can quickly 
accumulate many players. The risk is that some of the players may bring along 
their own quirks and foibles in a way that threatens the enjoyability of the game. 
Recruiting for an open game is simple: Place some posters at the local game store; 
run off some flyers with a description of the game’s core theme; and use the 
Internet to set up contacts on newsgroups (like alt.games.whitewolf) and e-mail 
lists (like Vampire-L). 
Restricted games limit their membership in some fashion. The most common 
type of restricted game is invitation-only; these games generally recruit solely by 
word of mouth and only under the auspices of the head Storyteller. Certain clubs and 
organizations like the Camarilla also run games that are available only to club 
members; recruitment here comes about through club periodicals (like Requiem) and 
e-mail (like One World by Night’s OWbN-OOC list). 
The first stageofrecruiting is finding out whether there’senoughdemand torun 
the game! If a game won’t attract more than a couple of players, then the long- 
running plot lines may not have a chance to really shine. Without character 
interaction, the two players probably won’t stick around unless new players are 
suddenly recruited in the second game session. A good medium is to shoot for at least 
adozen players; for one-shots, a handful is fine, but long-running games need enough 
players to divide into factions. 
Once thegame is indemand, pick assistants. Remember, though, that not every 
assistant (Narrator, coordinator, Storyteller, whatever) needs to be competent in all 
areas of the game. It’s possible that someone is great at providing transportation and 
site logistics but has a tough time with the rules. That’s fine -grab people who can 
do the individual jobs necessary and assign them strict roles. That way, the game gets 
people who can do particular jobs well instead of running the Storyteller ragged or 
accepting people who may be multi-skilled but noc exceptional in a particular 
position. It’s always good to avoid personality conflicts here; although in theory 
everyone should be able to get along and do their jobs without conflict, in practice 
real life sometimes interferes, and so assistants need to be chosen with an eye toward 
compatibility (with each other, with the Storyteller and with the players). If 
everyone hates a particular Narrator, it won’t help move rules resolution along 
smoothly; there’ll be too many arguments. Conversely, someone who knows the 
rules perfectly may not be well-suited to handling site logistics; such a person should 
be placed firmly in a rules-narration position. 
T H E  
LONC~ 
HAUL 
Once players are lined up, the location’s been picked out, the rules packets have 
been distributed, the characters are built and the story begins, how do you keep the 
game from crashing and burning within three months? 
Three major factors tend to contribute most to the death of prospective games, 
and all of them can be avoided with the right planning. 
POLITICS 
Face it, although an ideal LARP would have players who could all get along, 
personal conflicts do arise outside of the game. Too often, these conflicts spill over 


into the game itself. Avoiding these conflicts requires direct mediation - 
politics 
can’t be allowed to simmer. Handle such problems as soon as they come up. 
The worst sort of politicking comes from favoritism. Storytellers sometimes feel 
compelled to give special benefits to their friends and significant others. This can be 
all right, as long as such benefits fit into the context of the game; picking out specific 
people to play local Hierarchy officials for an Oblivion game, for instance, saves the 
trouble of filling in with Narrator characters and gives a deliberate power structure 
to the game. However, the Storyteller must be absolutely firm indecisions offairness. 
If the Storyteller chooses to be unfair or to skew the game’s rules or points toward 
certain individuals, this skewing must be solely a result of the game’s play, not 
because of special friendships. A Storyteller thought to play favorites wins no respect 
and actually loses players. Generally, the best course is to stick to the same rules for 
everyone. If there’s a deliberate imbalance of power, it should be specifically written 
down so that it can be seen and addressed by all of the players. 
Politics also lead to metagmning- the practice of using out-of-game knowledge 
in the course of the game. Metagaming can be difficult to track; if a player knows that 
a particular character is a diabolist, there’s nothing to stop his character from 
spuriously accusing the diabolist and then claiming that he was “just making it up.” 
Either way, the diabolist gets caught and likely killed; this is no fun at all if the player 
spent a lot of effort on his activities. The best way to handle metagaming is usually 
in downtimes. Have each player write a report between games on what his character 
did and learned at the game (as well as what he intends to do during downtime). If 
a player uses knowledge that his character shouldn’t have, stop it immediately. Once 
metagame knowledge gets out, it has to be traced to every person “infected.” 
Some players also bring their real-life conflicts with them into the game. If a 
particular player hates another player, it’s possible that the first player may make a 
series of characters all designed for the specific purpose of killing the hapless victim. 
In such instances, the best way to deal with the situation is to bring in Narrator 
characters. Although heavy-handed, this can serve to play up why killing other 
characters is almost universally frowned on by the higher-ups of just about any World 
of Darkness group. Also, keeping the players from killing one another in a pointless 
cycle forces them to direct their energies elsewhere, possibly adding to intrigue and 
new plots in the game. 
CHARACTER 
IMBALANCE 
Character imbalance, a subtle, creeping factor, makes a game difficult to 
control and hard to enter. At the outset of the game, everyone pretty much runs 
under the same power levels. Players all build their characters with the same rules, 
and avoiding favoritism lets everyone get a fair shake at the game. New players can 
come in a few months down the road with the expectation of getting involved in an 
already established good game. 
The problem of character imbalance starts creeping up after numerous 
sessions have passed - when players have had a chance to accumulate 50 
Experience Traits or more for some of their old-guard characters. These characters 
move to the forefront, dominating the game. This is natural; ancilla and elder 
vampires, old gaunt wraiths and the like should occupy positions of power. 
However, these characters can come to completely control the game, shutting out 
new players with less powerful characters. When these old guard characters can do 


everything the new characters can do (and do it better), there are no storylines in 
which new players can get involved. 
Ultimately, there are three good solutions for character imbalance. The first is 
to build in obsolescence for characters: For every chunk of 25 or 50 Experience Traits 
spent on a character, increase all costs for later purchases by one Trait. Thus, an elder 
vampire character who already had 100 Experience Traits spent on powers and 
Abilities would have to spend an extra two or four Traits on all new purchases. 
Second, offer build points for characters: New players might get some extra Traits 
when building their characters so that they can keep up. This tactic invites the 
worrisome problem of power-escalation, though, causing all characters to become 
overpowered down the line. Third, build in safeguards to keep certain plots open to 
new players. If some Narrator characters at the high levels of the game direct plot 
elements toward the new characters or if you simply ask some of your old guard to 
step back and allow new players to participate in certain plotlines of your designa- 
tion, you can avoid the syndrome of helplessness among the new crowd. 
SITE CONFLICTS 
A well-planned game can always fall to the problems of the real world. 
Unfortunately, the (perceived) less-than-sterling reputation of the roleplaying 
game community means that some places may hesitate to allow live-action games in 
their area. Some games even face harassment from local authorities. 
In order to prevent problems with conflicts of this sort, always have a backup 
site planned. When setting up a location, make sure to have an alternate available, 
and make sure that everyone knows how to get there as well. Plan for sites at least 
a month in advance, so that there is enough time to reschedule and try to get a 
different backup in order if something goes wrong. 
Also, as a matter of common sense, don’t antagonize non-players. Although LARP 
groups often adopt a siege mentality about the surrounding community and people who 
don’t understand roleplaying, nothing is served by getting in other people’s faces. People 
who don’t understand the hobby don’t get a favorable impression when MET players 
treat them with scorn or derision. Always be polite. If locals or law enforcement ask the 
group to move to a different location, agree to head to an alternate site and ask to discuss 
the matter later - 
better than arguing about it in the middle of a game and antagonizing 
both the players and the non-players. Remember, some LARP groups might be mistaken 
for gangs, absurd as it seems (after all, local merchants and police have a valid concern 
about 20 people in black trenchcoats congregating in a public place and making strange 
hand gestures). Keep matters low-key, and instruct players to direct people to the 
Storyteller if a problem arises. Although she may be well-meaning, a player in the midst 
of a challenge or action-filled scene may not make the best diplomat for an outsider to 
the game; the Storyteller must be able to fill that responsibility outside of the game itself 
(remember, most non-players feel very uncomfortable discussing matters in the middle 
of the game, so be sure to go somewhere else to negotiate). 
90 qeT’EM! 
That’s it! Seriously. Setting up a long-running chronicle may seem like a lot of 
work, but it’s rewarding to Storyteller and players alike. Keep a sheet handy to jot 
down notes about the various steps in this article, and chronicle setup for most open- 
ended games can be accomplished easily in under a day. And, of course, always 
remember the most important rule - 
hawe fun. 


A POSITION 
O E  S T R E N ~ T H  
by Carl Bowen 
We intend to include a piece of World of Darkness fiction in every issue of 
the Journal. Fiction dealing with the World of Darkness offers insights into the 
lives and times of the people (i.e., the characters) who inhabit it, and such 
insi,phts offer you (as players and Storytellers) flavor and spice to make your 
Mind’s Eye Theatre games all the more attractive. Mind’s Eye Theatre 
releases should be simultaneously entertaining and useful. This piece, in 
particular, showcases a way to blend into the background ofmortal society while 
carrying out very specific Kindred business. 
A touch on my face awakens me as night comes. For a moment, I believe that 
the touch is that of a lover’s hand, but the ever-present smell of my surroundings 
breaks through that lie right away. I open my eyes to the darkness, suspecting that 
the touch was no more than the flicking tail of a rat. The little beasts crawl onto 
my chest to sleep sometimes, not moving an inch until I begin to stir to life. The 
skittering, splashing sounds that echo around the dank cavern like the applause of 
tiny sycophants confirm my theory. I never see the furry things, but I am almost glad 
of their company. At least they are company. 
Standing, I brush gnarled, spotted fingers through the last of my hair, 
resisting the urge to tear it all out by the roots. Instead, I pass my empty hands 
over my head like an empress holding elaborate ivory combs, creating an illusion 
of a thick fall of ebony locks, just as I sported in my youth. An illusory suit of 
expensive silk comes next, covering the tattered remnants of an out-of-style 
tweed blazer and blue jeans combination. Finally, I concentrate on the way I used 
to look before.. . before it all. I remember my blue eyes and trimmed goatee - 
my teeth, tarnished from years of smoking a pipe yet still straight and strong. I 
concentrate on these things, and I know - 
although I cannot feel it - 
that I look 
that way again. I know that the true flesh of my face is safely buried beneath that 
genial mask. Only when my disguise - 
the lie that covers who I truly am - 
is 
complete do I venture toward the surface. Only the stench of the sewer remains 
to hint at my identity, but I let that be. 
The place I had slept is not far from my point of egress into the dark streets 
- 
I have taken to sleeping where I fall lately - 
and I soon stand above the 
surface of my home. I step into the shadow of a nearby building and lean against 
the wall for support. I don’t like being above ground; I prefer it even less when 
I have to be outside. 
“You have rat-droppings on your shirt,” asmug, faintly amused voice says from 
across the alley. 
I jump and draw a quick breath - 
more from habit than involuntary reflex. 
My contact is early. He can see right through my disguise, and he (no doubt) saw 
where I emerged from the sewers. I will have to change my route to the surface now. 
“Bainbridge,” I say in a whisper. My voice is not what it used to be. “It is good 
to see you.” 
A P O S I T I O N  Of S T R B N Q T H  


The elegant fop steps out of the shadows into the light that rolls down 
the alley. He is decked in ultra-stylish, tight-fitting clothing that somehow 
manages to please the eye despite the best efforts of the ugly pink-orange tint 
of the sodium-arc streetlights. He stands with one knee cocked, his arms 
crossed. A delicately embroidered handkerchief carrying the scent of heavy 
perfume dangles from his right hand, and he waves it under his nose casually 
every few moments. 
“You’re right on time,” Alex Bainbridge lilts. “And I see you have your game- 
face on. That’s good.” 
I bristle and cock an unamused eyebrow. 
“You mentioned a job last night, Bainbridge,” I whisper. “And a retainer fee. 
I’ve no love for bantering in the open like this.” 
Something passes behind Bainbridge’s eyes, and he smiles. ‘Then come,” he 
says, taking my arm and gesturing expansively. “Let’s away to someplace more 
congenial!” He means his good humor to be infectious, but he spoils the effect by 
wrinkling his nose slightly at my odor. I give him a sardonic smile - 
cracked and 
blistered lips peeling back from crooked, gapped teeth that only he can see - 
and 
allow myself to be led. 
* 
* 
* 
He takes me to an expensive nightclub on the far comer of town, and I am 
surprised that it is not the one he owns, the one he alluded to when he contacted 
me by phone the night before. The very air pulses and hums with a press of human 
bodies all shouting and gyrating to music that is almost a physical presence. Lights 
flicker and flash in time with the music, transforming the mob of dancers into an 
ever-changing menagerie of sweating, hazy statues. This club is gaudy and juvenile 
compared with the courtly grace of Bainbridge’s own club, the Bocor, but it is much 
better than being outside in the open. 
Bainbridge and I take a table on the periphery of the dance floor, wading 
through the crowd with some effort. When we are seated, we do not try to shout 
over the din but rather move our mouths as if in speech. Each of us is an 
accomplished lip-reader - 
an invaluable skill in the information trade - 
and 
the words come as naturally as a pleasant Sunday-afternoon conversation in the 
park. We may appear slightly odd, conversing amidst all this chaos without any 
trouble, but we do not fear accidental discovery. The only others who take any 
note of us are Bainbridge’s servants and the employees working at the nightclub. 
I trust surroundings such as these more than I would isolated booths or dark, 
forbidding alleyways. 
“You almost look overdressed now,” Bainbridge jokes, referring to my disguise 
and still flicking the handkerchief before his nose. His clothes perfectly comple- 
ment his surroundings and vice versa. 
“The job?” I mouth back. It feels good to communicate this way, without the 
persistent scratching in my throat that started the night I entered this second life, 
when my throat twisted and cinched up at my first taste of blood. 
Bainbridge rolls his eyes theatrically, but he smiles at my forthrightness. “It’s 
more of a tenured position than a single job, really,” he says, skipping the banter. 
“As I mentioned, we are prepared to offer you a substantial retainer fee.” 
“GO on.” 
M I N D ’ S  E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


“Assignments for this job may impinge quite seriously on your free time, and 
you would have to guarantee your continued availability,” Bainbridge says, the 
handkerchief bobbing to the oppressive beat of the music. “You would also be 
required to pledge a certain assurance of allegiance to my.. . organization. Would 
that be a problem?” 
“You talk like a lawyer, Bainbridge,” I smirk. “It makes this job sound less 
worthwhile by the moment.” 
Bainbridge’s eyes flash, and a dazzling smile crosses his face. I have been told 
that I am a handsome man - 
when I am disguised -but 
Bainbridge is absolutely 
beautiful when he smiles. 
“Nice words from someone who talks like a Harvard English professor half the 
time,” he says, speaking aloud in his merry amusement. “But do forgive me. I only 
meant to convince you of how important this job would be to those of my 
organization. The services we require beg a certain amount of delicacy and 
provider-loyalty.” 
“You know how much my loyalty is worth,” I tell him, sitting back in my chair. 
Despite myself, I begin to relax. Bainbridge sounds desperate, and desperate men 
with favors to ask are much more tractable and trustworthy by nature. 
“That I do,” Bainbridge mouths, still smiling. “And you should have what 
you desire.” 
“Then tell me the job.” 
Bainbridge looks away for a moment at some voluptuous girl throwing herself 
about with particular grace on the crowded dance floor - 
he is so easily distracted 
-then leans toward me and locks my eyes in his gaze. “My organization needs your 
particular skills of mediation.” 
I blink. “Is that it?” I have long availed myself to those of my kind who 
know to ask. 
“‘It’?” Bainbridge mouthes, incredulous. Then: “Ah, forgive me again. I forget 
that you have not had the time to think this through as I have.” 
“Then do explain,” I say. It is often difficult to tell if Bainbridge is deliberately 
trying to insult me or ifhe is merely tactless. It is so hard to tell, and with Bainbridge, 
an accusation of one would likely just bring assurances of the other. 
“What I mean to say is that my organization wishes to be your sole patron 
in the dispensation of your diplomatic ability. We wish to make you a kind 
of envoy.” 
“Why?” I can just imagine the endless frippery and decadence I would have 
to put up with were I to agree. Bainbridge’s associates are - 
like Bainbridge - 
given to boring, pointless dalliances in art and social maneuvering. 
This time, Bainbridge’s pause seems more the surprise of an overconfident 
man who cannot imagine why someone would want to disagree with him. 
“Well, primarily,” he says after only a short hesitation, “because we can offer 
you a substantial amount of money, even when you are not on assignment for us. 
Second, for our own part, my associates and I strive to possess those things that we 
consider to be the best of their kind. We would be greatly honored to be able to lay 
claim to your remarkable talent. Simply put, you are the best negotiator in the city, 
and you would make a valuable asset.” 
A POSITION 
Oe S T R F N ~ T H  


I 
“Who told you that?” I can’t help but let pride creep into my voice despite 
Bainbridge’s condescending tone. 
“We are aware of how you handled the problem we had with the logging 
industry,” Bainbridge says. “As well as the treaty violations between ourselves and 
those, shall we say, ‘angry’ denizens of the inner city.” 
I nod thoughtfully at the memory of both incidents. The former involved 
some unruly servants of others of my kind who sought to put a halt to the 
logging industry some years back in the name of environmental friendliness 
without considering the consequences on the local economy. The latter had 
ended a tense period of hostility between my kind and the area’s original 
residents who had grudgingly welcomed us when we first arrived, but then 
thought to change their minds. In both cases, I had simply been one voice out 
of many, yet it had been my ideas that had made the most sense to both sides 
of the quarrels. 
“That all happened some time ago,” I say. “Why does your.. . organization, as 
you say.. . want to hire me now?” 
Bainbridge glances around at each of his servants briefly, doubtless passing 
them some signal to be prepared) and says, “Because we have an assignment in 
mind already, one for which you would be ideally suited.” 
“What assignment ?” 
“You understand that by telling you, I am assuming a certain-” 
“Yes, yes,” I cut in, ‘‘I will accept and be discreet, Bainbridge. Enough assurances.” 
“Very well. Something of a situation has arisen with one of the.. . guardians.. . 
of our kind. He has taken his master hostage, and he makes outrageous threats. He 
is, however, willing to negotiate.” 
I sit forward in my chair. This should not be. “How has he taken his own master 
hostage? I have no servants of my own, but the very nature of those bound-” 
“We do not know,” Bainbridge sighs. “We know that this servant, Travian is 
his name, is possessed of great strength. He is also, by the accounts ofour messenger, 
quite insane.” 
“Then what makes you think that I will be able to negotiate with him at all?” 
A faint ghost of a smile touches Bainbridge’s face, and he says, “Perhaps I did 
not make myself clear. I should have said that we only want you to talk to this 
Travian. We have no intention of bargaining with him, but he does have 
information we need. If you can pry that information from him, we would consider 
your assignment accomplished. You need not cajole him into complying with you, 
nor do you need to placate him in any way.” 
“And why can you not just carry him away somewhere and make him give you 
the information you desire?” 
Bainbridge begins to seethe when I ask him that, and his fist slams down on 
the table. “Because Travian is sitting at the center table of my club right now! He 
contacted me through a servant last night before I spoke to you, and he has been 
there since two hours before dusk waiting for us. He will not leave its safety without 
causing a scene.” He unconsciously wads his handkerchief in his clenched fist, then 
leaves it crumpled on the table. 
“Then why not go to those of our kind higher in authority!” I ask. Bainbridge’s 
voice drops back to subvocal range before he answers. He also casts quick glances 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  
dD 


at each of his servants again. I can almost feel them nodding in response, and I sense 
that I am on decidedly delicate ground. 
“Because,” he says, “my organization and I are poised to make a rather 
significant political maneuver in the hierarchy of this town. If we go before the 
current authorities with a request for assistance in dealing with our servants, we will 
look weak and lose unimaginable face.” 
“You risk just that same loss by coming to me,” I say. “Either way, you are 
asking for help in dealing with what should be a strictly internal matter.” 
“Wrong, friend,” Rainbridge says, smiling easily. “We do not come crawling 
to you begging your help. To all accounts, I am being magnanimous to our erstwhile 
servant in hopes of preserving decorum in a fragile situation.” 
“You are negotiating with an insouciant lackey.” 
“We are employing a masterful negotiator in a holding ploy,” Rainbridge 
corrects me. “Yet on the surface, we are affording great respect to an enemy. We 
appear both devilishly clever and noble.” 
“By using me and paying me off for it,” I say. “And binding me to your service 
to fortify your political aspirations.” 
Again, that self-assured, if somewhat confused, smile crosses Bainbridge’s 
face. To him, I seem to be playing the game of bargaining, but I am putting too 
much heart into it. My compliance with his wishes should be a foregone conclu- 
sion, yet I actually seem ill-disposed to give it. 
rhere is a certain time-sensitive aspect to this assignment,” he says, his voice 
carefully neutral. 
“Manipulate someone else,” I say, making as if to rise. ‘‘I have no desire to 
bridle a stalking horse just to keep you from looking silly.” 
Bainbridge sits up a little straighter, the realization that I just might refuse him 
despite his charms and bribes finally sinking in, and he says, “There is one other 
thing you may wish to consider.” 
‘‘, 
I lean back and steeple my fingers on top of the table. “And that is?” 
“Oh, must I?” he says. His nose wrinkles with distaste, and he says, “I find 
this part so.. .” 
“Gauche?” 
“Cliched,” Rainbridge says, giving me a flat look. “Ah well. The thing you 
should probably consider is that in turning my offer down, you become a potential 
liability to my aims. I am no lawyer, but I know that allowing such a thing would 
be most irresponsible on my part.” 
Still half standing, I take a moment to really look around. Now that I’m 
paying attention, I see just how many of the random assortment of bystanders 
(and dancers and club patrons and bouncers.. .) are looking at me. They all flick 
their eyes (almost in unison) between me and Rainbridge, tense on the point of 
action. They may all be servants, but so many would surely be more than I could 
reasonably handle alone. 
“Thus, I say this,” Rainbridge says, ignoring everyone but me. “Work for me, 
or I will look into other options that will leave you and your niche in the 
information trade obsolete.” 
I glance again at the circle - 
the noose - 
of eyes watching me, then sit back 
down in defeat. “When do I begin?” 
A POSITION 
OP STRENGTH 
dB 


The dazzling smile illuminates Bainbridge’s face as if it had never faltered, and 
“Immediately.” 
The nightclub Bainbridge owns, the Bocor, stands in sharp contrast to Ban- 
Haven, in which he currently cowers. Whereas Ban-Haven relies heavily on 
Gothic-Industrial architecture and pulsing lights and sounds, Bainbridge’s own 
club is much more subtle in style and intent, catering to a more affluent and 
mature crowd. The lights are dim but constant. The colors lean more toward 
yellow and dark mahogany here instead of the black and chrome of the other 
club. The music, while still pervasive and cutting-edge, doesn’t make a spectacle 
of itself. It coils and hums beneath the surface noise, underlying the atmosphere 
like a serpent’s beating heart. The music subtly beckons here rather than 
pounding at my eardrums. 
I drift in through the double doors - 
translucent glass edged with oak and 
gold-filigree - 
and scan the room in one pass. The guards inside, old servants of 
Bainbridge, have been told to expect me, but they are still tense. The two at the 
door push back the front-runners of the pack that wants to come in - 
the social 
have-nots - 
and block off the entrance like riot police guarding a barricade. What 
few outsiders have managed to prove their social worthiness and squeeze through 
step into the club somewhat doe-eyed. They can tell that something is wrong, even 
if they have no concept of what that might be. 
I, however, am not lucky enough to be so blissfully ignorant. As soon as I cross 
the threshold into Bainbridge’s club, I spot Travian sitting alone in the very center 
of the room. Even had Bainbridge failed to give me a picture-clear description of 
the man, my eyes would have been drawn to him. He sits sideways at his circular 
table, one arm cocked to rest on its surface, the other slung straight down at his side, 
holding a cigarette a few inches above the floor. This servant is by no means 
handsome, but he exudes an aura of confidence and power that is difficult to ignore. 
His knife-thin body seems simultaneously relaxed and poised to spring. The music, 
however, does not seem to affect him, for outlined against the backdrop of the 
dance floor, he remains perfectly motionless. 
Standing transfixed, I garner the notice of two of Bainbridge’s servants who 
have taken positions inside the club. They recognize me and nod in unison, 
subtly motioning in Travian’s direction as if I didn’t know where he is. At this 
signal, Travian looks up, first at the two servants - 
who, by their startled 
reactions, must have thought until that moment that Travian was unaware of 
their presence - 
then at me. His movements are slow and precise, like the 
motions of an owl or a robot. I can feel his gaze like a laying on of hands. Ignoring 
the two servants, Travian cocks his head and glances purposefully at the empty 
seat across the table from him. 
As with any adversarial contest between unequal opponents, the posturing for 
dominance begins immediately. Travian has taken a position closest to the door, 
so I must walk up to and then past him to take my seat. He also remains seated, 
displaying his greater ease and comfort. As I move to my chair, his eyes remain 
locked on mine, swiveling to follow my every move. My face is acasual, unreadable 
mask. I steeple my fingers in front of my chin and lean on my elbows just far enough 
so that Travian has to turn in his seat to face me. 
he retrieves his wrinkled handkercheif. 
* 
* 
* 
M I N D ’ S  E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


“Speak,” I command him. 
“Didn’t Bainbridge come with you?” Travian asks, glancing significantly at 
several people around the room. Each one looks away when Travian makes eye 
contact. “Enough of his entourage is already here.” 
“They’re just here to make sure you can’t leave,” I respond, surprising him a 
bit. “There are also three plants in the line outside and two men watching each of 
the rear entrances.” 
Travian glances around again, trying to remain calm despite the rising surge 
of panic I felt so recently myself. My admissions confuse him and keep him off 
balance. I have carefully rehearsed what information I can let slip to Travian, as 
well as how hard he will have to pry and barter to get it. 
“Good old Bainbridge,” he says at last, taking an unsteady drag from his 
cigarette. “Ever thorough.” 
“Who is your master?” I ask, staring insistently through the pall of bluish 
smoke. Travian blinks. 
“Didn’t Bainbridge tell you what I told his people to tell him?” he asks, his 
cigarette dangling in no-man’s land. “They should have said-” 
“What do you hope to gain from this?” I ask, hoping to keep him off balance 
and perhaps trick the information out of him. 
However, I’ve gone too far too fast, and I end up sounding like a Monty Python 
routine. Instead of answering, Travian relaxes, letting a thin, callous smile crawl 
across his face. Leaning back in his chair, he stubs out his cigarette and rests his 
palm on the table. 
“Not so fast there, slick,” he drawls, turning back to the side as he was when 
I found him. “You don’t want to blow your wad before I’m even ready.” 
I try to maintain dignity and put on a look of patriarchal disapproval. Travian 
doesn’t even look. I doubt he can even smell my sewer-stench through all the 
smoke that hangs in the air around him. 
So tell me at your pace,” I concede, making the offer sound like a benign 
allowance. “You wanted someone to listen to you, otherwise you wouldn’t have 
gone to all this trouble.” 
“Soon enough,” Travian says. He taps out another cigarette from a wrinkled 
paper pack and lights it behind his hand. The flickering glow makes the black in 
his hair dance like an oil spill. 
I easily wait Travian out as he smokes the cigarette from end to end insilence. He 
grows tense with anticipation, pretending to look around at the patrons of Bainbridge’s 
club, though likely scouting possible escape routes. Finally, when he has convinced 
himself that every avenue out of the room (the building, really) is covered by creatures 
like himself, he turns to me and begins to speak. Having been feigning disinterest and 
boredom, I look away from the dance floor and give Travian my attention. 
“First, I know who you are,” he says, crushing out the last of his coffin nail in 
the heavy glass ashtray on the table. “I didn’t request you specifically, but I knew 
that Bainbridge would go looking for you when I told him where I’d be tonight.” 
“Why?” 
“Well, I wanted it to be you they sent,” he says, looking away briefly. ‘‘I heard 
about how you dealt with some of my people back when they were going all gung- 
ho greenpeace on us. According to them, you were really fair. You listened.” 
‘ 6  - 
A POSITION 
01 S T R F N ~ T H  


“And that’s what you want now, why you’ve gone to so much trouble,” I ask. 
“Yeah, man,” Travian nods with growing excitement. “That’s all.” 
“The logging situation arose out of credible concerns and legitimate differ- 
ences of opinion,” I tell him, my voice growing cold. “You are nothing but a petty 
terrorist.” 
“But you have to,” Travian says plaintively, feeling his advantage slip away. 
“I know things.. ..” 
“You know nothing,” I interrupt, dropping my hands to the table’s surface and 
leaning forward. “Not ifyou thought we woulddeal with a stupid, arrogant servant.” 
“But I found out-” 
“What you found out is irrelevant.” My voice stays at a normal level to avoid 
accidentally revealing anything to the average bystanders, but my eyes blaze. “You 
betrayed your oath of servitude, and for that, your life is garbage to us.” 
Travian blinks but reveals no fear. “Not if you knew what I know. Lafonte was 
into some serious shit before I-” 
I know the name and affiliation of every one of my kind in my city, though not 
those of their servants. Ellen Lafonte - 
one of Bainbridge’s class - 
is young and 
weak, and it is no longer such an unreasonable surprise that her servant could have 
taken her prisoner. There are issues of status that must be addressed, however, 
“serious shit” notwithstanding. 
“Before what?” I lay on. “Before you locked her in her chambers without 
sustenance?” 
“She’s not in her chambers, dammit,” Travian snaps, struggling to keep his 
voice as level as mine. “And she’s not without-” 
“Ah, so you brutalized her and left her for dead somewhere?” Knowing 
Lafonte, such a claim would not be so unreasonable. If I guess correctly, Travian 
is her senior in age. Doubtless the same is true for physical prowess as well, which 
was why Travian was assigned to guard her in the first place. “My authorities will 
not look kindly on that at all.” 
“Look, she’s fine,” Travian growls, leaning across the table at me. “I just 
drugged her when I brought her food.” 
“Ah,” I smirk sardonically. “So you drugged her and left her for dead?” 
Travian slams a fist on the table, drawing several stares and the direct 
notice of several of Bainbridge’s servants. ‘‘I told you she’s safe at the warehouse 
where I wo-” 
“You want to be heard?” 
A look of horror crosses Travian’s face and he closes his eyes. “Shit!” 
Glancing at the nearest of Bainbridge’s servants, I nod significantly and give 
the subtle signal Bainbridge told me to give. Without hesistation, Travian jumps 
from his seat and reaches for something under his coat. As three of Bainbridge’s 
servants surround Travian-seeming 
to appear from the very air, they move so fast 
-I 
snatch up the heavy glass ashtray from the table and hurl it at Travian’s wrist. 
The bones there crack, Travian yelps and a large black pistol clatters to the ground. 
Two of Bainbridge’s servants grab Travian by the shoulders, and the third scoops 
up the pistol before anyone notices it. Anyone who cares to look will probably 
assume that the clatter was that of the ashtray. 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  
4D 


“You gotta listen to me,” Travian says, struggling against the servants who 
hold him and cradling his swelling wrist. “Lafonte is into some serious shit, I’m 
telling you. Stuff even people like her aren’t supposed to be into.” 
Bainbridge’s servants look questioningly at me, and I only sit back in my chair. 
My disguise belies no tension or question. “Escort him out.” 
* 
* 
* 
Bainbridge meets me not 10 minutes later. He breezespast the line at the front 
door like it isn’t there and sits down opposite me in the chair Travian sat in. I order 
two drinks from one of Bainbridge’s servants and look at my employer with pride. 
“That was somewhat easier than I thought, I must admit.” 
Bainbridge grins at me behind his perfumed handkerchief, making me want 
to cringe. “One must remember one’s place. You did well to remind Travian of his, 
albeit later than I am sure his master would have appreciated.” 
“Indeed.” 
The drinks -two glasses of deep red wine - 
arrive, and Bainbridge says, “Did 
Travian tell you anything else as you spoke to him?” 
I gulp down the first swallows from my glass before I answer. Bainbridge will 
have to forgive the breach of culture; I haven’t put anything in my stomach since 
I woke up. 
“Nothing regarding his motivation,” I tell him. “He would only say that 
Madame Lafonte had involved herself in some sort of illicit clandestine affair.. . .” 
Bainbridge’s lip twitches behind his own glass. 
“Doubtless a bargaining ploy to buy himself a few more precious moments 
of life.” 
“Most likely,” I say cautiously. Why did Bainbridge hesistate? “It is odd, 
however, that he merely took her captive instead of putting her to death.” 
“Like most servants,” Bainbridge says, his mouth still behind the wine glass, 
“Travian did not understand the nature of our society. Ones such as we are not 
given to the emotional weakness necessary to give those methods their power.” 
I don’t respond to that. Instead, I drink off the rest of my wine (though more 
slowly) and sit, watching the dancers on the floor. 
“Is something wrong?” Bainbridge asks. I notice that his wine glass is empty 
also. “You’re scowling. That’s a truly unattractive look on you, let me assure you.” 
“Just thinking too much, Bainbridge,” I tell him, still looking away. “The 
unfathomable concerns of our kind, if you will.” 
“I will not,” Bainbridge grins, gesturing roguishly. “We have more pleasant 
things to talk about. Like your payment and the employment negotiations. You’ve 
made a fine start here for us this evening, and it’s not even midnight! Let us hope 
every night is so productive.” 
I hold up a smile, though the feeling dissolves behind it. “Yes, let us hope so.” 
(This story appeared previously in the Athens by Night newsletter.) 
A P O S I T I O N  Of S T R E N G T H  
e 


MAYRAY! 
A N  OBLIVION 
ADVENTURE 
I N  THREE 
PARTS 
by Lindsay Woodcock 
1Wt good w
d
 
a magazine dewoted to Mind’s Eye Theatre be without a nod here 
orthere toactualplot?StoryteUingis,afterall, 
whatthesegamsareaUabout,andyoucan’tteU 
agood, ewocatiwe, interestingstory without awinningplot. If you’re justjoining us, this is Part 
Two of Mayday!, a three-part adventure for Obliwion. Part One, Ambassador, appeared in 
the March issue of the Journal and began the intrigue. So, in an attempt to help you keep your 
liwe-action chronicles cuwent with World of Darkness continuity, we present.. . . 
PART 
Two: DEPLOYMENT 
Some technical notes before we begin again: No ready-made adventure could 
possihly account for player creativity, Narrator preference or even pure chance. 
There are just too many variables at work in a live-action context to make for a 
single story that will work for everyone. Flexibility is essential. Keeping that in 
mind, then, each installment of this adventure is broken into individual scenes. 
The scene descriptions are divided into two sections: Hard Info and Choices. 
The Hard Info category presents facts, events and information that must 
somehow occur or be revealed for the adventure to run as planned. Feel free to use 
existing social structures, Narrator characters or your favorite plot devices to do so; 
the how is not important as long as the what comes across. 
The Choices category is, again, just what it might appear. The story’s 
flexibility plays a large part in these sections, as both Narrator and characters 
develop the plot. As long as the skeleton of the adventure - 
the Hard Info - 
is 
intact, don’t worry about forcing the flesh into any particular shape. 
Though this adventure is designed for asmall to medium size Circle of wraiths, 
it can easily accommodate a larger troupe. Narrator characters, Spectres and all 
manner of other characters show up, and all of them need players to make the 
experience rise to its potential. Again, feel free to use existing characters outside 
of the central Circle, as having familiar elements introduce or elaborate on new 
plot threads only increases the dramatic power and believability of the game. Plus, 
employing existing characters to drive this plot serves as a more direct motivation 
for the characters to get involved, and it makes the players feel like active 
participants in the development of the plot, rather than simple agents acting in 
someone else’s story. However, if none of the existing plot-characters in your game 
seem appropriate to this story, we include our concepts of some of the major players 
at the end of each installment. 
A final note: The three parts of Mayday! mix and match with your existing 
game readily enough. You could wait until the remaining part is released, then play 
them all together as a stand-alone adventure, or you could play each part as it comes 
out in the Journal, waiting for the next installment before you play again. You 
could weave each installment into an ongoing game, letting events snowball or 
leaving loose ends to keep players wondering what’s going on. Above all, remember 
that it’s your game, and this adventure works like salt - 
season to taste. 
And players, everything else past this point is Storyteller material, so if you don’t 
want to spoil the surprise, read no further. 
MAYDAY! 


DEPLOYMENT 
Part Two is the most freeform of the adventure’s installments. It’s also the 
most dangerous: Inter-wraith relations have a tendency to be volatile, at best. 
Virtually all of the events that occur are direct results of the characters’ actions in 
Part One - 
actions that could and should have been influenced by player 
innovation and character interaction and are therefore unpredictable - 
so only 
a few have been detailed for you. Character and roleplaying guided the Circle into 
the situation it finds itself in at the outset of Part Two, and the way through this 
chapter is, again, through character and roleplaying. 
S U C ~ C ~ E S T I O N S  
This installment has a few more new characters than the first one. The most 
important character your troupe meets during this game is Joseph Sauvant, a 
Hierarchy agent assigned to the Circle’s case. The Circle has a potentially vital relic 
- 
Nakagawa’s box of Heretic contacts and plans - 
and the Hierarchy wants it. If 
the characters went to the Hierarchy for help in Part One, Sauvant is likely to try 
to talk the group into handing the box over. If they chose one of the other options, 
like the Renegades, he might be inclined to use less diplomatic tactics. Other 
characters the Circle might run into are the two Heretic agents within the 
Hierarchy who are out to silence the group, Heretic cult members, Renegade leaders 
and Hierarchs trying to preserve order. If you created any or all of these characters 
when you played Ambassador, it’s a good idea to use the same ones again. Of course, 
if the characters came from a pre-existing chronicle, you can just brief the players 
and not worry about making any new wraiths. 
There aren’t many propsfor thischapter; it’s almost entirely based oncharacter 
interaction rather than the discovery of some new relic. The item cards for the relic 
box, the wakizashi and anything else you used in Part One should be sufficient. 
S C E N E  ONE 
Hard Info: 
The Hierarchv now knows - 
either because the wraiths told them voluntarilv 
in Part One or through the Hierarchy information network-about the box and the 
fact that the Circle has it. If the Hierarchs don’t have the relic already, they want it. 
The same goes for the Heretics. However, now that their plans have been 
fouled up (Nakagawa falling into the Harrowing and the box going to the Circle), 
there are new agents in town. The Heretics listed on the paper in the relic box are 
members of a cult with branches in almost every city in the Shadowlands and 
Stygia. That cult is now on the brink of being discovered, and the agents have been 
sent in for cleanup and ass-covering maneuvers. Though the Heretics who tried to 
take the Circle out for “knowing too much already” in the first installment of 
Mayday! failed (if your Circle made the choice to approach the Heretics), these 
new agents are here to finish the job. 
What’s really going on here? Now is when you, as Storyteller, find out. The 
Jade Empire has been planning to invade Stygia, with the help of the covert Heretic 
cult, for some time now. The characters are at ground zero for the invasion of their 
Necropolis. No matter what the characters do, this attack is going to happen, and 
it’s going to happen on a fixed schedule: one day after the characters first receive 
the relic box from Nakagawa. This timetable should absolutely not be immediately 
obvious to the players or the characters. They should be able to figure it out - 
even 
the radar controllers at Pearl Harbor had all the signs right there at their fingertips, 
after all - 
but the Storyteller shouldn’t just hand it to them. 
M I N D ’ S  
B Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


Choices: 
Characters can attempt to investigate the Heretic cult further. They 
might try to infiltrate it or pump information from other wraiths, or they might 
go about spying from a more arcane angle. The amount, nature and veracity of 
the information they get is up to the Storyteller and Narrators, but keep in 
mind that the invasion plot is carefully guarded and will not be divulged at all 
lightly or willingly. 
If the characters have already gone to the Hierarchy or if they choose to go to 
the Hierarchy now, they can attempt to help in the investigation of the cult, 
assuming they've convinced the legionnaires to mount one in the first place! 
Various Social challenges and extensive roleplaying should be called for, as the 
Hierarchy is extremely suspicious of the characters. 
The Hierarchy has a few bad apples in its barrel. Two Heretic cult infiltrators 
have made it into the ranks and they work actively, though subtly, to keep the 
characters from getting involved. They will do their utmost to quash any investi- 
gation the Hierarchy might launch. 
Heretic cult agents tail the Circle. The characters have to work extremely 
hard to find out about the surveillance, much less do anything about it. Characters 
might attempt to mislead the spies or they might use a more direct approach and 
confront the agents openly. Of course, the fact that there are cult spies following 
the Circle makes infiltrating the Heretic cult considerably more difficult. 
If the characters chose to 
take refuge with the Renegades 
in Part One, they might get in 
good with the Renegade lead- 
ership. Careful prodding and 
demonstrations of trustworthi- 
ness ought to earn the 
characters some information: 
Nakagawa's disappearance was 
not random. The Renegades 
had enough foreknowledge of 
the invasion to not only re- 
search the Jade wraith's Fetters 
but to arrange to have one of 
them - 
the teacup - 
de- 
stroyed in order to send him 
into a Harrowing and, with 
any luck, keep the invasion 
from happening. 
Social and status-related 
effects of this chapter are po- 
tentially 
profound. 
Hierarchy-affiliated Circles 
might gain status and per- 
haps a more tangible reward 
for their help. Groups ap- 
pealing to the Renegades for 
protection and support might 
strengthen their alliances 
M A Y  D AY! 


and open channels to new sources of support - 
and gain the severe disapproval 
of the Hierarchy while they’re at it. Clumsy characters could very easily find 
themselves on the top of everyone’s shit list! 
Don’t forget the taint on the wakizashi Nakagawa was carrying in his box. 
Whether in the handsof aplayer’scharacter or aNarrator, the potential for Catharsis 
is a strong story line and makes for interesting plot twists. 
This chapter should end either one day after the Circle obtained the relic 
box or when the characters have come to some sort of decision about how to deal 
with the Jade invasion (if they’ve found out about it) or the race for the relic box 
(if they haven’t). 
So ends this the second installment of Mayday! Look for Part 111: Invasion in the 
December issue of the Journal, wherein this thrilling plotline reaches its climax and 
conclusion, after which the Underworld willnever be the same. The following is a “skinand 
bones” cheat-sheet of suggested Traits and a background sketch for Joseph Sauvant, the 
Hierarchy agent assigned to retrieve the relic box from the Circle. 
THE 
I N V E S T I ~ A T O R  
T H E  SKIN 
Sauvant was a patient and obedient French soldier, in life. The only thing 
he lacked was ambition; he never managed to rise above the rank of private even 
though he had the ability and the raw skill to go much further. His civilian life 
was quite similar: He loved a woman, but not enough to marry her; he had a few 
friends, but no special comrades. Only his mediocrity and his desire to do better 
brought him to the Shadowlands when, long after he had left the army, he was 
killed by a thief. 
Now, Joseph Sauvant is a careful wraith, dedicated to doing his job thoroughly 
and well. At the moment, his job is to get Nakagawa’s relic box and all the 
information contained in it from the Circle and take it back to the Hierarchy - 
and he uses whatever means he deems necessary to get that job done. If the 
characters managed to convince the Hierarchy to listen to them in Part One, they 
find Sauvant persistent and rational in his attempts to convince them to hand over 
the box. In any other case, Sauvant demonstrates exactly what made him a good 
soldier: relentless attention to his task. He might comer the characters and verbally 
browbeat them. On the other hand, he might comer them and physically browbeat 
them - 
hey, whatever works. 
T H E  BONES 
PERSONAL 
INEORMATION 
Name: Joseph Sauvant 
Life: Soldier 
Death: Random violence 
Nature: Follower 
Demeanor: Bravo 
Regret: Never having made anything of himself 
M I N D ’ S  E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


STATISTICS 
Mental Traits: Attentive, Determined, Disciplined x 2, Patient, Vigilant 
Social Traits: Commanding, Dignified, Genial, Intimidating 
Physical Traits: Athktic, Brawny, Enduring, Ferocious x 2, Rugged x 2, Tough 
Abilities: Brawl, Bureaucracy, Firearms, Meke,Repair, Stealth 
Argos (all innates): Enshroud, Phantom Wings, Flicker 
Castigate (all innates): Soulsight 
Moliate (all innates): Sculpt, Martialry 
Get Ahead in Hierarchy (Pride) 
Always be Right (Vanity) 
Protect his Living Home (Love) 
Find his Family (Love) 
Home in Life 
French Army Uniform 
The Rifle he Carried 
A R CAN o I 
P A S S I O N S  
E BTTE R S  
B A C K C ~  
R O U N D S  
Hierarchy Status 
3 
SAUVANT’S 
S H A D O W  
D A R K  PASSIONS 
Artifact 
3 (coiled whip made of braided soul material) 
The Abuser 
Destroy Wraiths of Higher Status (Jealousy) 
Drive Everyone Away (Self-Hatred) 
Spectre Prestige 
Tainted Relic (military baton) 
THORNS 
MAYDAY! 


ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD 
QUFSTIONS 
A 
The constant evolution of Mind’s Eye Theatre brings new and different 
questions to the game. This issue, we tackle questions and comments about 
The Shining Host. No one’s a greater critic of a writer’s work than the writer 
himself. Thus, when I went looking for a rules update, I turned to the author 
of The Shining Host, Peter Woodworth. He had so much to say that I devoted 
this entire section to his info. 
Send your Mind’s Eye Theatre questions to: 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal, Frequently Asked Questions 
735 Park North Blud, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
carlawhite-wolf.com 


TRAITS 
TRAIT 
M A X I M U M S  
Changelings have the following Trait maximums for their Social, Mental and 
Physical Trait categories: childlings 10, wilders 12, grumps 16. Please note that any 
bonusTraits gained from a kith‘s Birthrights (sidhe Awe and Beauty, trollTitan’s Power, 
you name it) and only their Birthrights may allow them to go over these limits. Thus, 
it is possible for a grump to have upward of 18 Traits in certain rare circumstances. 
WILLPOWER 
USAGE 
This system should be updated in keeping with other games. A Willpower Trait 
may he spent to gain a retest against (not ignore the results of) a Social or Mental 
Challenge, including supernatural powers that rely on such challenges where it’s 
appropriate. Willpower may also be used to replenish Traits in one category (Social, 
Mental, Physical) only once per session. 
MERITS 8 ELAWS 
Why were so many Birthrights &a Frailties made into Merits & Flaws? 
This is one of the most frequently asked questions about the The Shining Host. The 
idea behind this innovation was to show how the various cultures of the world have shared 
elements of their mythologies over time, and thus how some rare faeries have come to be 
a blend ofdifferent legendary traits. For example, in some cultures, bogam also have sharp 
hearing and keen eyesight in addition to their craftsmanship ability, and many legends 
speak of dread redcaps who possess the strength of ogres. These unique Merits &Flaws were 
thus designed to allow a character to show the gradual evolution of the fae as they spread 
across the world, not to min-max a character into some mythical Ultimate Changeling. 
True Faith (7 Trait Supernatural Merit) 
True Faith was accidentally omitted. See Laws of the Hunt, page 92, for details 
on Trw Faith. 
(A cautionarynote -True Faith is rare to beginwith and evenmore rare among 
the Fair Ones. A player should have a wery good explanation to give the Storyteller 
for how his character came by such an unusual state of mind for the fae.) 
Overconfident (1 Trait Personality Flaw) 
The Negative Traits indicated in the text of this Flaw are the Impatient and 
Gullible Negative Traits, which eshu possess naturally; a character still gains the 
Trait value of the Flaw, naturally. 
Charmed Life (5 Trait Supernatural Merit) 
Once per session, the Storyteller may alert the player to a hunch his character 
has about a particular situation (You get the sudden impression that going down that alley 
juuuuuuuust might be a mistake). In other words, the character gets a spooky feeling 
before something happens in game, thus giving him the chance to change his mind 
or rethink his strategy. An important use of this capacity allows the character to 
negate a combat situation before it starts in order to prevent it or make it come out 
better than it would have if the character were to enter it unaware. If the character 
initiates the situation anyway, he can’t back up events or change his mind if things 
turn out badly for him, because of a hunch he had about the first outcome. No 
information is retained about events that did not happen thanks to this Merit, and 
no one but the Charmed character benefits from this Merit. 
(Note: This Merit can be extremely powerful, and it should be used no more than once 
persession, ifeventhatoften. StotytellersshouldretaincompletecontroloverthisMerit, and 
charac:terswhooveruseitmaysmreceivingfalse hunchesandothererroneous dormation.) 


A R T S  
S O V E R E I G N  ( PROTOCOL) 
Please note that this Art means that if the cantrip is successful, the target may not 
break Protocol for the court occasion in any way unless he spends a Willpower Trait. 
If Protocol is cast on an area by using the Scene Realm (as is commonly done at a 
freehold), any who wish to break Protocol within the boundaries of the cantrip must 
beat the caster in a Static Social Challenge for every disobedient action they wish to 
perform. Characters may also spend a Willpower Trait to cancel Protocol for them- 
selves (but not the rest of those characters present). Note that in either case the caster 
will know that Protocol has been challenged but not necessarily by whom unless the 
rebellious character makes it obvious. 
REALMS 
S CE N E  
As this Realm was constructed for an average-size area of play, such as the ground 
floor of a house, the numbers for this Realm may need some doctoring to make it useful 
in larger settings, such as conventions. Feel free to manipulate the numbers to make 
the Realm work in your game, though Storytellers should take care to maintain game 
balance (somone crisping everyone in the game with a single Pyretics strike tends to 
make for a lot of unhappy players) and that the numbers won’t run the Storyteller 
herself ragged trying to keep up with the scope of players’ magics. When in doubt, use 
the names of each level of this Realm (Closet, Guest Room, Ground Floor) and your own 
common sense as your guide. Changeling isn’t about yardsticks, after all. 
BANALITY 
USING 
ACTIVE 
BANALITY 
AGAINST 
CANTRIPS 
The phrasing in the rulebook makes it too easy to abuse invoking Banality as a 
defense against Kithain cantrips. It is therefore recommended that Storytellers limit 
the characters who are able to actively use Banality in the following ways: First, 
characters who have been enchanted by a changeling cannot actively invoke their 
Banality - 
they’ve been taken along for the ride, whether they like it or not. Second, 
characters must be at least vaguely aware that something out of the ordinary is being 
directed at them - 
a mortal orderly chasing a pooka may use his Banality if the pooka 
beginsscreaming gibberishand pointingat him, but he cannot doso ifthepookasimply 
sits in acomer, staring into space. Finally, some troupes may wish to rule that characters 
who have invoked their Banality to try to cancel a cantrip and failed may not attempt 
such a defense for the remainder of the scene, as the characters’ disbelief has been 
shaken too badly to serve them for the time being. 
CANTRIPS 
RETESTING CANTRIPS 
Overbidding is a perfectly legal means of retesting a cantrip - 
after all, what 
good are Bunk Traits unless they can help in the possibility of an overbid, too? 
However, assume no Ability-related retests are possible unless the cantrip specifi- 
cally allows them - 
in other words, no ‘‘I use Subterfuge to retest my Chicanery 
powers.” Advanced troupes may elect to allow Ability retests of cantrips if the player 
can explain how the Ability directly relates to the cantrip’s use. In order to avoid 
endless retests and other entanglements, it is recommended that beginning troupes 
restrict retests to overbidding, the House Eiluned Boon and defensive Gremayre uses. 


CAND 
DE 
. 
E RU 
T IN YOUR HANDS. 
PLAY 
CONCENTRATE ON TH 
K BRINGS THE RULES 
HORROR OF WRAITH: 
mOBLlVIONAND TRANSLATES IT I 
IND'S EYE THEATRE SETTING. 
A COMPLETE MIND S EYE IHEATRE RULEBO 
k' - 
THE WORLl 
G THE DREAMING. 
AND REVELATI01 
ES THAT TELL OF 
BE USED AS A AC 
W E  
AND LON( 
D OF (h4NGEI.W 


MI 


I E N T  HORIZON: 
UPCOMIN~ 
L A R P  EVENTS 
SOUTHWESTERN 
U S  
Domain of Mountain Shadows; Provo, UT 
Every Tuesday 
Nikki McCoriston, N.Burton@m.cc.utah.edu 
(801) 363-3959 
Moonlight Masquerade; Marysville, CA 
Every Saturday (8 pm) 
Jennifer Young, kaidin@syix.com 
Labyrinth of Crying Shadows (Sahbat Game); Sacramento, CA 
Every Friday 
Adam Abrilmson, vallombrosa@hotmail.com 
N O R T H C E N T R A L  
U S  
Dominion of Solitude; Topeka, KS 
Second Saturday of each month 
Jefierv P. Harrington, 
davosburgh@aol.com 
harriSW@gcoci t ies.com 
Ground Zero; Colorado Springs, CO 
Every other Thursday 
Travis I’age, Darkholme@kktv.com 
Ebon Seraph; Omaha, NE 
Last Saturday of each month 
(7 19) 328-0605 
S O U T H C E N T R A L  
U S  
CrimsonTear Society; Jonesboro, AR 
First and third Saturday ofeach month 
Tom McFarland, 
prefect@texas.net 
thomasmc@fastdata.net 
(870) 931-9959 
Fourtll Tower Falling; Dallas, TX 
David Douh, Rrujah@gte.net 
(972) 788-1895 
Garden of Thorns; Clear Lake, TX 
First Saturday of each tiionrh 
wesle),oc~juno.com 
(972) 788- 1895 
Midnight Rose; Clear Lake, T X  
Third Saturday of each month 
preft.cr@texas.net 
Houseofthe EternalRose; Clear Lake, TX 
Fourth Saturday of each month. 
Legio Noctem; Dallas, TX 
Third Saturday of each month 
Billy ~ucas, wiIIiamIucas~juno.com 
First Saturday of each month 
(972) 788-1895 
Kentucky Fried; Dallas, TX 
Fourth Satrlrday of each month 
Lance Gillson, 
noc7neofconscquence~u~~.net 
-- 


D’ 
Eighth Legion; Dallas, TX 
Fifth Saturday of each month 
James Potter, 
month 
kingsnight@hotmail.com 
Ken Reinertson, 
(972) 788-1895 
khr7057@unix.tamu.edu 
Bryan/College Station; B/CS, TX 
Second and fourth Saturday of each 
T H E  
GREAT LAKES 
Coterie ot the Crimson Night; St. Louis, MO 
Third Saturday of each month 
Jamie Schneider, jaclon@juno.com 
(314) 837-3640 
NORTHEAST 
U S  
Severed Sun; Boston, MA 
First and third Saturdayofeach month 
Sean Donnelly 
giovanni@cybercom.net 
House of the Crescent Moon; Boston, MA 
Second Saturday of each month 
(617) 656-2891 
(617) 576-1097 
EAST CENTRAL 
U S  
Das Dae’Mar; State Capitol Complex, WV 
Second and fourth Saturday of each month 
WachuDancR@aol.com 
S O U T H E A S T  U S 
Shades of Pale Society; Chattanooga, TN 
Second Saturday of each month 
Laura Middleton, shades@larp.com 
Charlestonus AbNoctum; Charleston, SC 
First two Fridays of every month 
Ian Betts, alistergarle@hotmail.com 
Eclipsed Moon; Charleston, SC 
Third Friday of every month 
Ian Betts, alistergarIe@hotmail.com 
Kindred of the Shadows; Auburn, AL 
Every Sunday 
houdrej@mail.auburn.edu 
Shadows of Vulcan; Birmingham, AL 
Second Saturday of each month 
Sarah Riggs, 
coordina tor~shadowsofvulcan.com 
Liberras Aeterna; Charlotte, N C  
Every other Saturday 
Tim Harris, harristOcs.winthroy.edu 
(423) 876-4561 
HouseoftheSanguineMoon;Tampa, FL 
Firsrand third Saturday ofevery month 
Hope Summerall, 
zandriaOhotniail.com 
Athens by Night; Athens, GA 
June 12; July 10 
Storyteller List 
abn-stOmnth.gatech.ectu 
Blood Moon; Charleston, SC 
Fourth Saturday of every month 
Ian Betts, alisterlegareOhotmail.com 
-8 
