I 
h 
IINK 


Welcome to the 
Mind's Eye Theatre Journal, 
The magazine that picks up where 
7 
I 
ISBN 1-56504-783-4 
I 
WW5407 $7.95 U.S. 
50795 
J 9 781565 047839 


BECAUSF ‘THF MIND’S €YE N F V F R  B L I N K S  


Issue #4 
The secrets of the wraiths of the Jade Empire. 
The conclusion of the Mayday! Chronicle. 
Live-Action Mage rules.. . sort of. 
Issue #5 
The first part of MET’S look at Wraith: The Great War. 
A look at the Bunyip for Laws of the Wyld West. 
The eznherjur of the Dark Ages. 
Issue #6 
The second part of MET’S look at Wraith: The Great War 
Werewolves in the Dark Ages 
Yulan-Jin and Dhampyrs 
7% PARK NORTH BUD. 
SUITE 128 
CLARKSTON, GA 30021 
[ w K I T [  
W O L F (  USA 
6 A M f  S T U D I O  
0 
2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. Reproduction without the writ- 
ten permission of the publisher is expressly 
forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and 
for blank character sheets, which may he repro- 
duced for personal useonly. White Wolf, Vampire 
the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage 
the Ascension, World of Darkness and Aberrant 
are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publish- 
ing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the 
Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, 
Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal, Oblivion, Kindred of the East 
Companion, and Laws of the Hunt are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights 
reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf 
Publishing, Inc. The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not 
a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for 
settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended 
for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES. 


w E LCO M E! 
Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the seventh issue of the MET 
Journal! For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second 
to acquaint you with just what you’ve got here. (For those of you who already 
know, you may skip ahead to Cynthia’s article on staying in character.) 
The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps in 
your White Wolf LARP environment. We offer rules for new character types, 
original story lines to work into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games 
under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won’t find in any 
other Mind’s Eye release. Plus, you’ll find answers to the questions that have 
plagued you, original World of Darkness fiction and columns from people 
who’ve been LARPing or working here at White Wolf (or both) for years. 
In this issue, we delve into the acting side of live-action roleplaying. 
Cynthia Summers and Matthew Hooper provide insight on how to truly make 
your character come to life on the mobile stage of roleplaying. On the other end 
of the spectrum, I offer rules for fomori and slip in the heretical Dharma rules 
that didn’t make it into Laws of the East. And that’s just a sample of what’s 
in store for you here. We’ll also take a look at what you’ve missed in previous 
issues (if you’re joining us late) and what to expect in the future of Mind’s Eye 
Theatre and White Wolf in general. 
In the next issue of the Journal, we’ll finish up Laura Hanson’s series on 
costuming, I’ll say a few words about running a LARP chronicle, and I’ll make 
an unrelated revelation you might not expect. 
Until then, you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on 
your opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us 
questions about the features and rules you see here, as well as notes about the 
broken rules you come across in different MET publications. Send us horror 
stories about games gone wrong and how your player characters fixed them. 
We’re interested in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and we want to know 
what you think. 
Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; 
we’ve got something for everybody. And if we don’t have it yet, let us know. 
We’ll get it for you. 
Curl Bowen 
Developer 
carl@white-wolf. corn 
White Wolf 
Attn: Mind’s Eye Theatre Journal Developer 
735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
USA 


STAYING 
I N  CHARACTER 
by Cynthia Summers 
Cynthia knows things. She’s been developing Mind’s Eye Theatre for 
more than a year now, and she’s been pkzying Mind’s Eye Theatre since she 
started working for White Wolf in 1994. She’s one of the resident LARPing 
experts in house. As an observer of the dynamics of he-action rokplayingsociety , 
she is without peer. 
When you go to aMind’s Eye Theatre game, or any LARP for that matter, 
one of the game’s greatest charms is the total immersion in the scene. For the 
next several hours, you’re not who you are at home. You’re the dread prince of 
the city or the brave knight questing for the treasure or the ghost that’s been 
terrorizing the kids on Lovers’ Lane. When you’re at the game, you have a 
character. Unfortunately, there are numerous distractions that can make 
maintaining that character challenging at best, impossible at worst. This is the 
challenge of every actor and every roleplayer - 
how to maintain character. 
There are a number of reasons why you may have trouble in the first place, but 
for every reason, there is certainly a solution. 
B E I N G  AROUND 
OTHERS 
W H O  
A R E  OUTOE PLAY 
Sometimes, you get a couple of folks who just saw the latest Star Wars and 
simply must discuss it right there in the middle of the game (and they sure don’t 
sound like the Red Talons they’re supposed to be.. .). Or you have to deal with 
some fool who insists on quoting you the entirety of Monty Python’s The Life of 
Brian to prove he can. Then you have the two who haven’t seen each other since 
the panty raid at Gropecon’97, and they just reunited in the middle of the game. 
Ask your Storyteller about designating a spot in the game site as out-of- 
play and announcing at the beginning of the night where it is. Those who are 
being noisy should be encouraged to take their discussion elsewhere. Don’t go 
into the area unless you have to. If you’re having trouble maintaining 
character, it’ll be that much harder around a bunch of folks who are there to 
smoke, greet their long-lost buddies or whatever. 
THE PHYSICAL 
THINGS 
Eating, drinking, and sleeping - 
little things that our alletoo-human 
bodies crave - 
can sometimes run roughshod over the mood in a chronicle 
(particularly for those playing the non-living). People tend to drop character 


fantasy works or going to the movies? If you don’t know how your character 
views these things, that can really hamper staying in character when you’re 
around others who are discussing the movie that surely inspired a Chrysalis or 
two. Even Ghengis Khan took a break. 
DAMN, I’VE C ~ O T T O  S I T O O P  
Sometimes you’ve got to leave the action. Maybe you’re going to play 
another character for the Storyteller, maybe you’ve been asked to sit away from 
the in-play area while your character runs a ritual or drives somewhere, or 
you’ve got to leave early for a real-life job. There are definitely more viable 
options than making the out-of-play sign and leaving. 
If you’re going to do something in another part of the game (playing a 
Storyteller character or helping at check-in), then consider excusing yourself 
in character to make a phone call, check email or do some other little thing 
that should naturally occur off-stage. Before you return, take a moment to 
reorient yourself and re-enter to whatever chaos greets you. The same option 
is open if you’re leaving for a job or other event. Leave under some character 
pretext (answeringapage, feeding thecat, writing thepontifex), make your in- 
character farewells and depart. Doing so is a lot more story-friendly than simply 
barging out and making a great deal of out-of-character noise. 
In the case of driving, rituals or other tasks that have a time requirement, 
you need not sit and twiddle your thumbs, nor fall into out-of-play conversa- 
tion you’re not interested in. Grab a book or something that your character 
might actually be interested in, or think about what your character is doing 
while running the ritual, hacking the system or driving. Did she run a red light? 
Did she take extra care with drawing her circles? Storytellers may ask such 
things as plot fodder, but even if they don’t, it can be a neat detail to bring back 
to play, in addition to keeping you focused. 
M O M ,  WE’RE 
BORED! 
Then, last but not least, there’s that great enemy of the roleplayer - 
boredom. Sitting by yourself doing nothing seems to be one of the greatest 
temptations to all sorts ofnaughtiness. It can also be apowerful motive to slide 
out of character. After all, you’re not doing anything, so why bother? 
If you foresee a slow evening for an in-play circumstance, or there’s a 
chance the event you were planning for doesn’t go off, bring things with you 
that your character could do to keep busy, such as a book, the tools of your craft 
or a game. Chess seems to be the default sport of kings, but backgammon, go, 
mancala or mah jhong are equally valid. Plus there’s always a deck of cards. If 
you must sit out, then you’ll have something to keep busy with. Ifyou’re in play, 


seeing you with something in your hands may well bring over curious observers, 
and some of the best roleplaying can spring from in-play interest. It also 
squashes the risk of sliding out of character and distracting those around you. 
It could be that the character itself has gone a little stale. You may feel that 
the character has reached its limits, and he has no more story to tell. Consider 
a brief walkabout or time away - 
even the sweetest song can get old if it’s 
played too many times. Some downtime may bring you back refreshed and 
raring to go, or you may find that you really have reached the end of the road. 
If the latter is the case, then go gracefully - 
whether into the sunset or 
Valhalla - 
and take what you learn into your next incarnation. 


I 
by Richard E. Dansky 
C ~ A B B A  HEY, 
GABBA 
HEY, 
NOT O N E O E  
Us 
or 
P R E c r s E L r  WHY & L O #  YOUR 
N o N - L A R P I N ~  
IRIENDS 
THINK YOU’RE 
NUTS 
If you’re reading this column, you fall into one of two classes of people: players of Mind’s 
Eye Theatre or my immediate family. If you’re one of the former (and the odds are, I think, 
pretty good), then you’ve probably had a conversation that goes something like this: 
FRIEND 
Hi there! Want to go catch a movie Friday? 
YOU 
Umm, sorry, I can’t. It’s Masquerade night, and I really have to be there. 
FRIEND 
You said that two weeks ago. And two weeks before that. 
YOU 
I know, I know, but this is something I’ve been working towards for a long time, and I 
have to be there tonight or the Ventrue primogen will ... 
FRIEND 
Whatever. Say hi to Count Chocula for me. 
Sounds familiar, doesn’t it? Not only that, but it’s incredibly frustrating. After all, you 
want to spend time with your friends who don’t play the game, but it seems like every time 
you talk to them, they’re demanding that you give up a game session that invariably contains 
some crucial chain of events. (And I hope I’m not going out on a limb here by assuming that 
you do indeed have friends who don’t play.) 
Your friends, on the other hand, see every attempt to be social stymied because you’ve 
got to go to the game. Even worse, they see all of your free time sucked up by this game to 
such an extent that they’re ready to hire Harvey Keitel to kidnap and deprogram you (on 
the condition that he promises to keep his pants on at all times). 
It’s not a pretty situation, and it’s one that can lead to a lot of strain on both you and 
your non-gaming social circle. Left untended, that sort of dilemma can cause resentment, 
wreck friendships and generate enough angst to fuel every Oblivion chronicle on the 
(OK, the wise-ass who said, “Both of them?” is getting a stem talking-to when this 
column is over. Count on it.) 
Dealing with those who are “outside the tribe” of gamers has always been problematic, 
but it gets even more so when you have problems dealing with non-LARPers who are at least 
initially friendly to the idea of LARP. Note, however, that “Friendly to the idea of LARP” 


is not semantically equivalent to “Ripe fodder for recruitment into your little ghoul army.” 
A friend can appreciate that you have fun playing Masquerade without having the slightest 
inclination to do so herself, and repeated attempts to haul her into play willy-nilly will 
squander that appreciation rapidly. 
Let’s put it this way: Many of my friends regard Arnold Schwarzenegger as a luminous 
paradigm of the thespian craft. I think he’s got the dramatic range of a kangaroo’s discus toss, 
but I certainly don’t begrudge my friends their enjoyment. I wish them happiness when they 
get together for that boffo Commando/ Red Heat double feature playing down at the campus 
cinema series, but I’m not going to partake myself, thanks. 
The same goes for LARPing. Just because someone doesn’t immediately condemn your 
vampireLARPasa toolofsatan (who, incidentally,reallyshouldhave kickedAmold’sassmuch 
harder in Endof Days), she’snot necessarily ready to dive whole-heartedly into the game. Maybe 
she just appreciates the fact that you’re having a good time. There is middle ground. Honest. 
Unfortunately, there’s a steady, basic miscommunication between the LARP commu- 
nity and the rest of the world as to what exactly is going on once the capes come out and 
the fangs appear. To all but the most closely proximate non-tribesman, that Vampire LARP 
thing you do is a “game.” On a certain level, they’re right. It’s a game, a simulation and an 
exercise that you do for the sake of fun and social interaction. 
However, where the problem comes in is your definition of a “game” versus theirs. After 
all, they think you’re playing a game in the same way that they’d play chess or Parcheesi or 
Frogger. You play, someone wins, and it’s over. That’s it, end of story, it’s time to move on. 
You, however, are aware that you are instead partaking in a chronicle, a long-running 
series of interconnected stories detailing character growth and conflict, and carried out over 
a series of sessions that can last years. 
What we have here, as the man said, is failure to communicate. Oops. 
Is this anyone’s fault? Of course not - 
at least not initially. Most of the folks out there 
have certain perceptions of what a game is, how it’s played and what its demarcations are. 
There’s no reason for them to expect that MET behaves any differently, after all. On the 
other hand, you have every reason to expect your friends to be understanding of your need 
to devote time to something that you’ve invested a lot of work and emotional energy into. 
Therein, to be honest, lies the rub. A chronicle is not an episodic sort of thing. It’s 
cumulative. Plots evolve and move forward. Characters become more complex and more 
fully realized. Social interactions acquire depth. Plus, there are more and more people whose 
characters you have to consider as each session rolls past. 
That sounds fairly generic, right? Every activity gets more complex with time. But you, 
you’ve put innumerable hours into your plans and building your alliances. You’ve spent lots 
of downtime writing reports, sending in-character emails and arranging brief between- 
sessions roleplaying moments. You’ve laid out cash, at the very least, for costuming. You’ve 
put a ton of energy into maneuvering yourself into a position where you can grab power in 
the city and learn that new Discipline you’ve had your eye on. Now you’re ready to put areal 
stick up your arch-rival’s butt, but it’s all going to depend on the next session, and you had 
better be there to make sure all goes according to plan. 
Besides, if you skip the session, that son of a bitch Ventrue suddenly jumps two points 
ahead of you on the experience curve, which means he’s in that much better position to 
crush everything you’ve worked for, kill your character, and render the long-winded setup 
in the previous paragraph moot. 
(Side note: Why is it that the most intense roleplayers, the ones who put in the absolute 
most time plotting, scheming, building characters, acquiring experience, shmoozing fellow 
players and generally working to bend the game to their will are inevitably the guys you hate 


-
-
 
of power for the sake of benefiting their characters or screwing over people he doesn’t like.] 
Combating this sort of thing often turns into a vendetta for even the most reasonable 
folks. They’re willing to lose status, have plans come to naught and even kiss beloved 
characters good-bye - 
but not if that asshole is the one who benefits. After all, that asshole 
will, ifcrowned prince, ruin the game, killoff tons of characters and generally wreckeveryone’s 
fun. Unfortunately, to prevent this outcome, otherwise-well-balanced people are forced into 
an ever-widening spiral of commitment, just to keep pace with the schmuck du jour. 
Of course, to an outside observer, this phenomenon looks like a rapid descent into 
obsessive-compulsive behavior, and possibly an Academy Award-nominated role for 
Winona Ryder when they finally make that movie about you.) 
So let’s take a step back to that hypothetical conversation we started things with. Your 
friend sees everything you’re doing to culminate all of the work you’ve done for the character 
and cut off Ye Schmuck0 Grande, and he decides that you’ve gone LARP crazy and that you 
no longer have any use for people outside that special little world. After all, on those rare 
occasions when you do manage to hang out, you talk about what you’ve done recently - 
which is LARP. 
(Side Note #2: This sort of situation is usually not helped by infrequent sessions of 
hanging out. After all, at those moments you talk about what you’ve done recently, which 
often consists of ... what you’ve done at the LARP. It’s an affliction common to all 
enthusiastic hobbyists - 
you should hear fantasy baseball players ramble on for hours about 
the minutiae of the Cubs’ backup middle infielder situation - 
but it’s inevitably really 
incredibly annoying to the non-hobbyists forced to endure it.) 
You, on the other hand, have decided that your friend is an insensitive bastard for 
demanding that you abandon everything you’ve worked for just to catch a movie that will 
no doubt be on video within the hour anyway. Plus, he’s showing an appalling lack of 
understanding of all the work, passion and probably money you’ve put into this, and exactly 
how much will go down the drain if you miss the session. 
So who’s at fault? Again, nobody is. It’s just a miscommunication. However, that 
miscommunication will do a Godzilla-style number on your friendships with folks outside 
the game that you’re in if it’s allowed to continue. This column isn’t me trying to be funny 
or get in a backhanded slam at folks who genuinely enjoy playing MET full-throttle. This 
stuff happens, and it happens a lot, which is a shame. After all, like I keep on saying, MET 
is a game. It’s supposed to add to your life and make it more fun. Stressing friendships does 
not, by my definition of the word, add to anyone’s fun, and it behooves you and your friends 
outside the tribe to make some efforts to bridge that gap of communication before anything 
irrevocable occurs. 
The most important step in achieving some sort of dktente between your LARPing and 
non-LARPing lives is clearing up the misunderstanding over what sort ofgame it is. The best 
way to go about it is to couch it in terms that your friends will recognize and relate to. If they 
bowl, they’d be offended if you asked them to skip a league night for amovie, especially with 
the league championship (and the coveted gold-plated ugly shoes trophy) on the line. 
Therefore, it’s only a short jump to comparing your showdown with Vinnie the Ventrue to 
his showdown with the guys who normally hang out on lane 21. 
Couching the session in question in terms like that helps on several levels. First of all, 
it provides an easily understandable parallel for what you’re doing and why you’re doing it. 
You’ve put a lot of time into the character, he’s put a lot of time into his game. You’ve put 
a lot of money into costuming, he’s bought a strike ball, a spare ball and a pair of God- 
damned ugly shoes. And so it goes. By bringing what you’ve done into close comparison to 
what he’s done, it suddenly makes more sense. 
I 


significantly. If your behaviors suddenly aren’t so different from his behaviors, he may well have 
a more sympathetic view toward what you’re doing and how you’re going about doing it. 
(Then again, your buddy may just decide that he, too, is an irredeemable freak, and 
begin the process of ritual self-immolation in the nearest crosswalk. Those, however, are the 
risks you have to take for the greater good.) 
It’s a small step, but it’s a worthwhile one. You can’t mandate understanding on your 
friends’ part; you can only provide the tools and opportunities by which they just might 
understand why exactly you do that wacky thing you do. Think of yourself as an enabler, and 
suddenly you’ll feel much better about the process. 
Then again, there always remains the slim possibility that maybe, just maybe, your 
friend is right and you actually are devoting too much time to the game. Take a minute and 
popopenyourcopyofLawsof theNight. Somewhere in that bookisadisclaimer abouthow, 
if you’re calling the primogen at 327 in the morning to discuss who did what to whose socks 
at Elysium, you need to take a break. That one’s in there for a reason, folks, and it’s not to 
pad word count. If enough people are saying, “Gee, you’re playing that game an awful lot,” 
it’s worth a minute or two to do a mental check on exactly how much time, effort and money 
you’re putting into play. If you can answer in the affirmative to more than half of these 
questions, you might want to take a step back: 
1-Do you get your mail and find yourself vaguely annoyed that none of it is addressed 
to your character? 
2-Does your character have a larger wardrobe than you do? 
3-Does your email application have a separate folder for IC game correspondence that’s 
slightly larger than a scanned-in copy of War and Peace? 
4-Do the waitrons at the local 24 hour restaurants know you by your character name 
rather than your real one? 
5-Does the sight of a T-shirt emblazoned with the exhortation, “DO NOT TELL ME 
ABOUT YOUR CHARACTER!” inspire sudden rage in you? 
6-Do you look forward to traveling to exotic locales because they’ve been described in 
White Wolf books and you can’t wait to have your character announce that he’s spoken to 
the canonical White Wolf characters? 
7-Have you ever been in an uncomfortable discussion or situation and had someone 
say, “Why are your arms folded across your chest all of a sudden?” 
8-Do you find yourself mentally assigning Negative Traits to people you don’t like? 
9-Have you ever seriously considered dating someone else’s character, even if you 
wouldn’t touch that particular player with a biohazard suit on? 
10-Have you ever screwed up at school or work and found yourself actually trying to 
explain to your superior/ professor that it wasn’t your fault because the Nosferatu kept you 
11-Have you ever shown off your copy of the old Laws of the Night and proudly 
identified it as a first printing because a.) the spine lettering is unreadable and b.) it doesn’t 
have the typo on the back cover? 
If you answered “Yes” to a majority of these questions, it’s probably time to slow down 
a bit. If you answered“Yes, and your point is?” it’s definitely time to take a break, and possibly 
time for another hobby. 
This is not to say that because you play MET, you automatically play too much MET. 
After all, I like the fact that you’re playing the game. It means, among other things, that you 
buy MET-related products, and I get to keep churning out this nifty column for which they 
pay me quite nicely. Having devoted an ungodly number of hours and an untold amount of 


-
-
 
start decrying the evils of the game system. I mean, come on, people. 
However, it’s easy to fall into the great trap of the continuing live-action chronicle, 
which is to say its cumulative nature. Yes, this week is when everything comes to a head - 
but odds are, there’s going to be something just as vital at the next session, and the one after 
that, and so on. There’s always another idiot or munchkin or asshole or twink who’s on the 
verge of ruining the game if you, personally, don’t interpose yourself. There’s always another 
email to write, just to make sure that everything’s going according to plan, another XP to 
pick up to ensure that you’re character will survive the next game. And so it goes - 
it’s no 
better or worse or different than computer gamers who hog-tie themselves to Ciuilizutiun so 
they can build one more chariot unit before bed, except that there are other people involved, 
for better or for worse. 
If you lose sight of that, then just maybe your friend might have a point. After all, no 
matter how many times you throw yourself on the grenade of El Twinko, every chronicle 
ends sooner or later. Every game winds down. And when it does, you want to be able to dust 
yourself off, smile nostalgically at your much-marked character sheet, and walk off with your 
life having been made better by the fact that you played. You don’t want to look around at 
the wreckage with a wide-eyed expression of panic and start planning a new game just 
because you have no idea what the hell else to do with your time. 
You have a responsibility, after all, a responsibility to yourself. You do not have a 
responsibility to Save The Game. If Baron Von Twinkenstein is ruining it, you don’t 
necessarily have to be the hero every time. If he’s really that bad, someone else will probably 
try to help; if he isn’t, maybe you need to relax. And if worse comes to worst, you can always 
start a new game. If the guy’s that much of a ninny, odds good that are the folks you actually 
want to play with will come with you - 
and if you’re not going toe to toe with your pet 
schmuck, odds are you’ll have a little more time around the game. 
More importantly, you have a responsibility to yourself to make yourself happy, and 
even the most avid player will - 
upon due reflection - 
agree that letting the rest of your 
life atrophy for the sake of the game probably doesn’t cover that criterion too well. 
In the end, it does come down to perspective. You have to help your friends achieve 
a clearer perspective on what you’re doing and why it’s important to you. If they’re friends 
worth keeping, they’ll respect that, stick around and make an effort to get together around 
your gaming schedule. By the same token, you owe it to yourself to re-examine your 
perspective on the whole thing, and make sure you’re happy with the role the game is playing 
in your life. Yes, it’s fun, and yes, it can happily suck up as much time as you want to give 
it. Just be sure you’re happy with how much time you’re giving it, and how much time you’re 
giving everything else. 
In the end, after all, it’s a game that you play - 
that’s all. All in all, that’s a pretty 
damned good thing for it to be. You’ll probably want to keep it from becoming anything 
more. Your friends have no right to try to make it anything less. But in the meantime, that 
middle’s a heck of a place to be. 
And if not? There’s always room for one more at the bowling alley, if you can stand the 
shoes. 
I 


ALL THE 
WORLD’S 
A STAC~E 
A ROUGH C ~ U I D E T O  ACTING 
I N M E T play 
by Matthew Hooper 
Matthew 1 Hooper has spent over two decades chasing a career in theater. 
He graduated from the Catholic University of America with a theater major. He 
came to Atlanta, GA to become a starving actorlwaiter, only realizing late in life 
that, while acting is cool, starving sucks. While some of the roles he played were 
immense fun - 
especially the lead in Romeo and Juliet - 
eventually he hung 
up his tights and rapier and went to work in the mundane world. These days, he 
writes freelance material for White Wolf, contributing to the cjuide to the 
Camarilla and Storytellers guide. He still feels the need to treud the boards 
occasionally, though. 
“So, what’s this weird hobby of yours you do on the weekends?” Most 
Mind’s Eye Theatre players have faced this awkward question from well- 
meaning friends or relatives at some point. It’s never aneasy one to tackle. How 
do you explain to your dear Aunt Edna that you pretend to be a werewolf on 
alternate Tuesdays without making her cough up her dentures and give your 
folks embarrassed glances? Do you lie and tell her you like to take long, soulful 
walks in the woods? After all, you can leave out the part where you bay at the 
moon. Do you just dodge the question by complementing her on her new 
crocheted sweater? 
A lot ofplayers settle for this half-truth: “I’m in an improvisational theater 
troupe.” It sounds nice and profound. The conversation can move on again 
safely. After all, theater is a respectable hobby. And while improv comedy isn’t 
Shakespeare, Clive Anderson and his friends had a huge hit with that Whose 
Line is it Anyway? show of theirs. Theater is an ancient, noble art where you 
dress up and pretend to be someone else in front of an audience, while live- 
action games, why, they’re some scruffy hobby where.. er.. . you do the same 
thing without an audience. And with some games of Rock-Paper-Scissors 
tossed in to boot. 
Hmm. Maybe that convenient explanation isn’t so far from the truth 
after all. 
Live-action gaming is a form of theater, pure and simple. Mind you, there’s 
no audience at a LARP, but that doesn’t mean that you aren’t acting when you 
assume the role. Acting and live-action gaming are both about playing make 


believe. Acting focuses exclusively on taking that “make believe” as far as 
possible, while LARPers just settle for enjoying ourselves. 
Sure, live-action roleplaying is just a game. So is chess. So is business. So 
is a love affair. So is art. A game is any activity with rules and a goal and a lot 
of joy involved with the process. Some of the best games - 
like love or business 
- 
are deadly serious. Theater is as much a game as any LARP, in its own way. 
You just don’t keep score the same way. 
Trust me. Ask any actor. They aren’t in it for the money. Why do you 
think we’re called “starving artists”? 
Acting in a LARP and acting on stage isn’t quite the same. You have to 
work a lot harder on your concentration in a LARP than on stage. You have 
more freedom - 
and more work - 
at a game than in front of the footlights. 
But the raw pleasure of it all is the same. When you are In Character (in capital 
letters), you know it, and you never forget how good it feels. 
It’s hard to explain what that feeling is like. It’s not a matter of “forgetting” 
yourself. You don’t suddenly develop Multiple Personality Disorder. You just 
focus completely on the moment. Forget that you’re in a high school gym. 
Forget that you’re speaking in sonnets. Forget that your tights itch. If you put 
all these things away and concentrate - 
really concentrate - 
on being 
someone else for an hour, it can be magic. You’re never going to “be” that 
person, but you’re going to be more in tune with yourself by focusing on making 
that role come to life. 
You can feel it on stage all the time. At an MET game, it’s a lot more rare, 
but those moments of clarity are present. The tests and the rules exist to make 
those magic moments when the world comes alive happen. And with a little 
practice, those moments happen a lot more often. 
This article is intended to help coach you through getting into character 
for a LARP, using some basic theater techniques. You won’t be ready to star in 
the Scottish play after reading these steps, but you will find it easier to enter 
and stay in character if you follow them. Before your next game, give them a 
try and see what happens. With any luck, you’ll be able to find those In 
Character moments more easily, once you have an idea of how to get there. 
Eocus: P U T T I N ~ T H E  
DAY AWAY 
The most important aspect of making a character is concentration. It’s all 
about focus. You can’t convince anybody you’re an 18th century vampire if 
you’re talking about the latest episode of Duwson’s Creek or catching up on the 
latest gossip. Building a character takes work. If you’re not concentrating on 
the job, it’ll slip away from you. 
Before you start your next game, take a minute to walk away from the 
crowd and get yourself ready. Take a few deep breaths. Think about all the 
things you did today, the good and the bad. Take a moment to look at them. 
Then breathe out. Put those things away. For the next couple of hours, you 


a few hours, right? So get serious about it. Set the day’s worries aside. Above 
all, take your time. Leave the stuff that’s outside the game, outside the game. 
The biggest distraction any actor can face is stage fright. When you start 
to worry about what the audience thinks about you, your concentration is shot. 
If you worry about what the other players think about you, you can’t focus. If 
you can’t focus, you can’t do the job correctly. 
If you’re afraid, you’re afraid. That’s fine. Focus on who you are and what 
you’re doing. Ignore the spectators. Think about what you are doing right now. 
Take that fear, look at it a little bit, and then set it on the shelf with today’s 
troubles. You’ve got something else to do for the next few hours. You’re too 
There is no hurry here. Take as much time as you need to get ready. If the 
game starts without you, fine. It’s always better to be late and be 100 percent 
there, than to do a poor job. 
Now try something really scary: Stretch. That’s right, move around a bit. 
Roll your neck and stretch out your back. You’re going to be using your body 
as much as your brain for the next few hours. Acting is as much a physical 
exercise as a mental one. You need to have both in gear. 
Take one more deep breath for luck. Ready? Good. All right, pick up your 
character and start finding a way into him. 
GETTINS STARTED: 
I N S I D E  
A N D  OUTSIDE 
There’s an old story in theater about how Dustin Hoffman and Sir 
Lawrence Olivier prepared for their roles in the movie Marathon Man. Sir 
Lawrence Olivier was playing a torturer, and Hoffman was his victim. 
Hoffman really got into the role he was playing: He didn’t sleep for three 
days before the shoot. He didn’t eat the day before. The day of the shoot, he 
didn’t bathe. Finally, he showed up to the set, ready to go. 
Sir LawrenceOlivierwaswaitingforhim. 
Hestaredathis youngpartner and 
exclaimed, “Good Lord! You look terrible! What on earth happened to you?” 
‘‘I starved myself for the role,” Hoffman replied groggily. 
Sir Lawrence stared at him a bit, and then replied crisply: “My dear boy. 
Next time try acting. It’s so much easier.” 
Hoffman and Olivier both had very different techniques for getting into 
character. Hoffman built on the “interior technique” of acting. He put himself 
through some really nasty experiences to learn what it felt like to be tortured. 
Then he took those personal experiences to his character. The end result was 
a very realistic performance. (Maybe too realistic for those downwind of him.) 
A L L T H F  
WORLD’S 
A STAGE 


Sir Lawrence, on the other hand, used an older technique- 
the “exterior 
technique.” He focused on how his character moved- how the tortured stood, 
how he walked, how he stared at Hoffman. Then he listened to what those 
changes in his body did to his voice and his heart, and he carried them through 
to the stage. The end result was just as good, and just as credible, as Hoffman’s. 
Both techniques offer a window into getting inside a character. So which 
technique is best to use in Mind’s Eye Theatre? Both, of course. 
€ XTE R I  o R TECHNIQUE 
First and foremost, acting is an active process. Saying so sounds silly, but it’s 
anundeniable basicofthe art. You tell your audiencewho youarewith your body. 
Your posture defines your personality more than anything else about you. It 
doesn’t matter how detailed your character background is. It doesn’t matter if you 
tell me that you’re a professional bodyguard who lived through the Punic Wars. 
If I don’t see it in the way you walk, I don’t believe you, and nothing you say can 
convince me. And if you can’t convince me, how can you convince yourself? 
Actors often refer to their bodies as instruments. An actor “uses his 
instrument” to convey a role to an audience. It sounds pretentious [or dirty, if 
your mind works like that], but there’s a lot of truth there. Without an 
understanding of it, it doesn’t matter how much thought and research you put 
into a role. If an audience doesn’t see your work, you’re as effective as a 
trombonist who hums along to the orchestra. An entire philosophy of acting, 
called the Alexander Technique, is devoted to this idea of acting with your 
body. We don’t have space for the thousands ofpages written about it, but here 
are some highlights. 
Try this on for size. Get up out of your chair and start walking. Don’t think 
about walking, just walk like you were getting a coke from the fridge. Okay. 
Now speed up a little. Don’t run. Just pick up the pace. Concentrate, now. 
Don’t think about how silly you may look, just do it. 
While you’re walking, think about how you’re standing. When you walk 
through the door to the kitchen, what’s the first part of your body that passes 
the doorframe? No, it’s not your feet - 
not unless you’re taking giant steps. 
Odds are it’s your nose or your hips or your stomach. 
What happenswhen you leadwithyourchin?Don’tstickout Like youwere 
taking a punch, just think about leading with your chin. Keep it small. Turn 
around. When you turn, what part of your body turns first? Try to move in such 
a way that your chin is the first thing that moves when you decide to hang a 
left into the kitchen. 
Clench your jaw. Swing your arms. Clench your fists. Unclench them. 
Swing your head from side to side, like you were working a kink in your back out. 
Stop. How do you feel? 
If you said “Angry,” that’s good. You paid attention to what your body was 
telling you. Congratulations. You just acted. 


.______-- 
 
A lot of times, you can slip right into a role just by concentrating on how 
a character moves. Bodyguards, scholars and slaves all stand still in completely 
different ways. If you pay attention to this aspect of your character, you’ll go 
a long way toward getting into his shoes. 
Body language is absolutely crucial for the more animalistic roles in the 
World of Darkness, like those of the Garou. Do you want to play a lupus-breed 
werewolf? Do yourself a favor. Plant yourself in front of the Discovery Channel. 
Watch wolves for an hour or two. A wolf moves in a certain way. He reacts in 
a certain way. How do you take your two-legged body and make yourself move 
like that wolf on the television screen? Try it and find out. Eventually, you’ll 
never have to say, ‘‘I’m a lupus,” to other players. They’ll know before you can 
Show the other players what you are. One of the worst sins you can commit 
at a game is to raise your fingers and explain yourself. Don’t say, “You can see 
thatI’mreallybeatenup.”Don’tsay, 
“Youcansee that I’mfurious.”Show these 
things! How does someone move when they’ve been beaten to a pulp? How do 
you look at someone when you’re ready to chew nails and spit baling wire? Part 
of you probably knows. At some time in your life, you’ve been that bruised. 
You’ve probably been that angry as well. Feel those feelings all over again, and 
let your fellow gamers see it. The fewer times you have to step out of character, 
the stronger your character will be. 
Before you enter your next game, spend some time thinking about how 
your character moves. How does he walk? Is he sneaky? Lead with your nose. 
Is he arrogant? Lead with your chin. Try as many things as you like. Don’t just 
think about these mannerisms, try them. If you are sitting in a chair pondering 
all of this stuff, you’ve missed the point. 
Costuming helps a great deal in figuring out the body language of your 
character. An evening gown forces you move in a certain way. So does a tuxedo 
or a pair of blue jeans or a doublet and hose. It’s hard to slouch in a tuxedo or 
gown. You have to keep your back straight. As a result, you look more formal. 
And if you look formal, you feel more formal. Incorporate those restrictions 
into your character’s movement. Every small cue informs your character 
choices; they all help you decide what does and doesn’t fit in your game play. 
Now that you’ve got your character up on its feet, it’s time to turn your 
brain on and start thinking through your role. 
INTERIOR 
TECHNIQUE 
Start going over your character history at this point. Run it through your 
head like a good movie or a slideshow. Pick three events from your character 
history that you consider important. 
Take a good look at those important moments. Play them back in your 
head. Go into detail. What did you see? What did you hear? What did you 
smell? What did you touch? Try and drag all five senses into the mix. 
A L L T H E  
WORLD’S 
A S T A ~ E  


‘Try and really immerse yourself into the moment, at least for now. 
Now start taking a peek into your character’s head. What was he feeling 
when these things happened? 
Let’s say that your character’s father was killed by the Sabbat. How would 
that make your character feel? Angry? Sure. How about afraid? After all, your 
father was far more powerful than you were once. How about disappointed? You 
always thought your dad was stronger than this. How about happy? What did 
your father do to you that would make you happy to see him dead? Hmmm.. . 
Maybe some answers are right. Maybe some aren’t. But ask every 
question you can, even the ones you think are wrong. Maybe you’ll be 
surprised. People are capable of the most amazing things sometimes. Don’t 
settle for the easy answers. 
Above all, avoid saying no. Consider everything. Try everything. You owe 
it to yourself to look at every option. One of the greatest joys about this hobby 
is that you can be absolutely anyone or anything. You owe it to yourself to 
explore every possibility, even the ones that you wouldn’t normally allow 
yourself to look at twice. 
Now that you’ve explored these emotions in your character, try and link 
them to your own experiences in the world. It doesn’t matter if your character 
is a centuries old vampire or a bloodthirsty werewolf or whatever. You’ve had 
feelings and experiences that are similar to that creature. If it was impossible 
to empathize with a character, he’d be boring. If you can imagine a character, 
you can step into his shoes. It’s just a matter of trying. There are no such things 
as aliens in this world, only strangers. 
Maybe your parents haven’t been killed by anybody, but have you 
experienced the feelings that your character felt when his father was killed? 
Can you remember what it was like to be afraid for you father? When were you 
angry with your father? Were you ever disappointed with your father? What did 
those things feel like? Think of those moments. Think of your character 
history. Splice them together. Now you’ve really got material to work with. 
A lot of material has been written about this internal technique for acting. 
It’s called the Stanislavsky Technique, and again, we don’t have a thousand 
pages to discuss it. The material you’ve got here is a good start, however. Don’t 
be afraid to take risks, to make choices, and to ask questions. There are no 
wrong answers here -only 
answers that you’re afraid to try. Dare it. Try them. 
Remember, it’s only a game. The world of make believe is a wonderful place 
to explore your heart. As long as you keep the line between fantasy and reality 
strong, you can find some amazing things. 
One final note: Make sure that your character’s Nature and Demeanor 
agree with the choices you’ve made about the character so far. You’ll be using 
those two little words as a touchstone for your character’s innermost desires as 
the game goes on. Don’t be surprised if, after all this work, you find that the 
character’s Nature is completely different from what you thought it was going 


to be. When you start on a creative process like this, it tends to develop a 
direction all its own. Change it around until the Nature and Demeanor fit 
again, and get ready to move on. 
TAKINC~ 
ACTION: 
ACTINC~ 
WITHINTHE 
~ A M E  
So, you feel like you’re getting into character. You’re ready to get into the 
game. Good. Now the work really begins. 
Acting applies to your body, and it applies to your mind. When you start 
playing the game, you need to make an active choice about what you’re going 
to get done that night. 
We make choices every day, most of which aren’t terribly important. We 
decide what to have for lunch. We decide what to wear. Theater, and acting, 
is all about making choices too. Big choices. The bigger, the better. Hamlet 
isn’t deciding on lunch, he’s deciding whether he should kill himself or murder 
his stepfather. The choices you make need to be active choices, things that 
other people can see and hear, so that they can react to your actions and make 
the story happen. 
What does your character want tonight? Before you answer that question, 
keep the following guideline in mind: Don’t answer in the passive tense. 
Acting is an active process, remember? Your goal can’t be “stay alive.” That’s 
boring. Try the goal “kill anyone who tries to hurt me.” Or maybe even “run 
away from anyone who tries to hurt me.” As long as you have something for 
your character to do, you’re in good shape. 
How about the goal “become prince”? Try harder. Become is a pretty 
passive word. How about the goal “kill the old prince,” or “discredit the old 
prince”? Those active goals are much better. 
Make sure that your choice is informed by all the work that you’ve done 
so far. Don’t choose to kill the prince for the heck of it. Choose it if your 
character wants it, for reasons all his own. And don’t be afraid to set impossible 
goals for yourself. It’s the choice that is important here, not your success or 
failure. Your goal, as a player, is to create the most interesting story you can 
tonight. Your character’s goal should be chosen with that fact firmly in mind. 
Keep the choices big. Don’t make your goal for the evening “get an ice 
cream cone.” That’s too easy. Once you get it, you’ll be stuck for something to 
do for the rest of the evening. A good story involves a big decision. Big 
decisions entail big risks. Never settle for second best. Don Quixote didn’t 
become a librarian or a writer, he set out to restore the lost age of chivalry. Be 
ambitious in setting your goals. Even if your character fails in his quest, you 
won’t have failed to tell an epic story. 
Stuck? Try looking at your character’s Nature and Demeanor. Your 
character wants something very specific from life. If his Nature is Bravo, he 


wants to scare people. If it’s Judge, he wants to find the truth. Your character’s 
Demeanor lets you know how the character gets the things his Nature 
demands. If your Nature is Bravo, and your Demeanor is Critic, you may want 
to ruin someone’s self esteem by criticizing her at every turn. When all else fails, 
use your Nature and Demeanor as the touchstones for your character’s desires. 
Don’t become obsessed with this one goal, however, unless your character 
is thusly deranged. Goals can change during the course of a game. You can want 
different things. You can even want completely opposite things. After all, every 
vampire wants to let the Beast out, but at the same time, he wants to keep it in 
check. That internal conflict is a great way to bring depth and excitement to your 
character. Be ready to go with major course changes when they happen. You can 
never anticipate everything that can happen to a character. You can only react. 
What if your goal conflicts with another player’s goal? Good. That’s what 
good roleplaying is all about. A conflict lies at the heart of all good theater. 
Every single stagedproduction you can thinkof (fromNo Exit to Wrestlemania) 
has a struggle of some kind in it. You get involved in LARPs to stage a 
production and tell a story, and conflict is what makes that story work. 
If your goal conflicts with another player’s goal, try your damnedest to get 
your way. You have every option in the book open to you - 
you can beg, you 
can whimper, you can threaten, you can bribe, and you can even kill. But don’t 
back down. At least, don’t back down until a more important goal comes across 
your path. Most people try to suppress conflict in real life. They get along with 
their coworkers and their friends, so that we can all survive the day smoothly. 
You aren’t required to play nice in the World of Darkness. Don’t be afraid to 
stop playing nice and go for the jugular. (Figuratively speaking, of course.) 
When you’re playing a supernatural creature like a vampire or a werewolf, 
you have a lot of freedom. You can go to extremes that human beings can never 
dream of. The anger of a werewolf is legendary. The passions of a vampire dwarf 
regular emotions. When you play one of these characters, you have every right 
to jump in with both feet. Don’t hold back or make a halfhearted choice. Don’t 
like something if you can love it. Don’t love it if you can obsess over it. And don’t 
dislike something. Hate it. Your choices need to be as bold and strong as possible. 
The more you try for something, the stronger your character will be for it. 
This last piece of advice comes with a very strong caveat, however: Don’t 
forget to respect the real world around you. Don’t bellow your inhuman fury 
at the top of your lungs if you’re in a banquet hall filled with people who aren’t 
playing. If nothing else, remember that every supernatural wants to keep his 
or her nature hidden, for some very good reasons. 
More to the point, however, you need to keep the flow of the game going. 
If everyone has to step out of character to calm down irate hotel clerks and 
mothers, then all of that drama gets wasted. Theater only works when you have 
the trust of your fellow actors. If the other players worry constantly that you’ll 
disrupt the event and force everyone to break character, they’ll have a much 
harder time involving themselves in your work. 


After the game’s over, ask yourself this question: Did I achieve my goal! 
More importantly, did I have a good time? Now think ahead to the next game. 
What will be your goal then? How about the game after that? How about over 
the next year? Be ambitious, and be bold. There are no bad choices, only half- 
hearted ones. 
EINAL NOTES: 
COVERINC~THE 
ODD MOMENTS 
There are a lot of oddities to acting in a LARP the demand some specific 
advice. “Real” theater rarely goes into masscombat, after all. Here are some tips 
about the little pitfalls your characters can fall into, and how to make the best 
role-play possible out of them. 
Combat is inevitable in every LARP. If you’ve been serious about chasing 
your goals thus far, it’s very likely that your character will end up throwing a 
punch at someone at some point. Remember to keep roleplaying your charac- 
ter even as he’s fighting for his life. It’s hard to keep character in mind while 
you’re juggling numbers in the back of your head, but keep focused. Above all, 
sell the combat with your words and with your body. Combat can be fun. It’s 
exciting imaging your character performing stunts that make Jet Li in Romeo 
Must Die look like Marlon Brando in The Freshman. Long sessions of Rock- 
Paper-Scissors, however, are not fun. Focus on the story, not the hand signals. 
Describe what your character is doing as much as possible. Paint the scene for 
your opponent and your audience. If you can mime out your character’s actions 
(without engaging in stunts ur touching other people), do so. Remember that the 
safety of those around you is always more important than the game. Above all, 
try to get out of turns and into real time as soon as possible. 
In the course of a game, it’s very likely that you’ll have a character die. 
Accept this fact and keep going. It can be very painful to lose a character that 
you’ve spent a lot of time and energy creating, but at the same time, there’s 
nothing more powerful to play - 
either on stage or in a LARP - 
than a good, 
juicy death scene. If you have chased your goals as character with such 
devotion that you can only choose between their success and your character’s 
death, you’ve done very well as an actor in live-action play. If your character 
chooses death at the final hour, you’ve built a story that will change the nature 
of your chronicle for years. Remember, the goal of this game isn’t to build a 
nice, safe character that lives to a ripe old age. If that were the case, we’d play 
couch potatoes, not vampires werewolves. You’re here to tell the most exciting 
story you can. Don’t be afraid to risk everything your character has for the sake 
of making the story sing. 
In the same vain, don’t be afraid to let your character fail occasionally. 
Failure is a powerful motivator for change. Characters that change are always 
more interesting to watch and play. Don’t avoid plotting treachery against the 


prince just because you know as a player that some obfuscated spy is watching 
you. Let yourself fail. Have fun fighting with the consequences. Remember, 
your job as a player is not necessarily to succeed in the goal you set for your 
character. Rather, it’s to tell the most compelling story you can in the course 
of the night. Occasionally, that means letting the opposition win. It’ll make 
your eventual comeback and victory that much sweeter. 
A number of powers in Mind’s Eye Theatre can force you to play your 
character very differently from normal. Dominate, Dementation and blood 
bonds can alter your character’s deepest emotions in ways you’d never 
anticipate. Don’t fight these changes. Try to embrace them. Don’t be afraid to 
step out of character for a minute or two to walk back through your process if 
you need to. What does your character want now? How is he going to get it? 
Remember that now supernatural power can fundamentally change who your 
character is. It is your choice as a player how any effect is portrayed. A blood 
bond might feel like the greatest love affair a character has ever known. It 
might also feel like the most powerful drug addiction imaginable. Is your 
character a lover or a junkie? The choice is ultimately yours. 
Trust your fellow players. They’re here to tell the best story they can 
tonight, just like you. If you cooperate, you’ll be much more successful. 
Remember that while characters might butt heads, players can always make 
the conflict more interesting if they work in harmony. Sometimes you’re the 
hero in your own story. Sometimes you’re the supporting character in someone 
else’s tale. Share the spotlight with good grace. 
Finally, remember the most important questions anyone can ask about 
theater: “Who cares? So What?” Why should you bother being a vampire? 
Who cares about werewolves? Theater only works if it moves and changes its 
audience somehow. In a live-action game, you are your own audience. It’s very 
legitimate to say that you’re doing all this work just to be entertained. In fact, 
that should always be the first goal of any game. However, don’t be surprised 
if, after trying on all of these different goals and emotions, you find that you 
have changed and moved yourself somehow. An actor’s only real reward for his 
work is the applause of the audience at the end of the show. When the game’s 
over, put the character away. Applaud yourself. Take your bow. Think about 
what you’ve done this night. 
Who knows.. . Perhaps you’ll have found that playing a monster for a 
night has taught you something new about being human. 


HFRFTICAL DHARMAS 
by Peter Woodworth 
Given the fulfillment of our wishes, we’d cram every ounce of information 
we could into each book White Wolf publishes. However, conservation of space 
(and trees) often forbids us from doing so. With the advent of the Journal, 
however, we can - 
us the buck cover proclaims -pick 
up where our other books 
leave off. In this article, we take a look at some of the more unusual schools of 
Kuei-jin thought that didn’t make it into Laws of the East. 
These relatively young Dharmas are rejected as heretical by the Quincunx, 
but many of them are gaining support in the tumultuous days of the Fifth Age 
as younger vampires look to make their own mark on the world. Bear in mind 
that such freedom from established doctrine comes with a high price as well. 
Finding teachers for these paths is seldom easy, and open followers of these paths 
can expect cold welcomes (at best) when it comes to dealing with traditional 
elders. Being branded akuma for espousing such radically different beliefs is 
never far away for Kuei-jin on these paths, and the brightest of them never forget 
that this threat hangs over their heads constantly. 
Existing as they do outside traditional Kuei-jin astrology, Kuei-jin who 
follow a heretical Dharma do not receive a lucky number for their Dharma if they 
purchase the Horoscope Background. Such is the price of following such an 
unorthodox route. 
T H E  
E L A M E O E T H E  R I S I N C ~  
PHOENIX 
VIRTUE: HUNAND 
Y A N ~  
Not all vampires believe that they are set down on the Road Back in order 
to forge a new identity for themselves. Some believe that their responsibility lies 
in finishing the tasks they failed to accomplish during their breathing days; to 
set right what so obviously wouldn’t let them rest the first time. The reasoning 
is sound enough to their minds. If life was so short on karma that the Kuei-jin 
had to return to life once more, then doesn’t it make sense that their old lives 
should be the focus of their renewed attentions? The abilities of the Kuei-jin are 
only tools that they are meant to use in order to set their lives straight once more, 
and Phoenixes struggle hard to overcome their P’os and rejoin the world of their 
living relatives. At first, many of them are surprisingly successful, acting as 
guardian angels over the ones they considered dear to them in life and settling 
old accounts left unpaid on their death. Even the most jaded elder harbors the 
kind of thoughts that drive this Dharma, of returning to his family home or 
visiting his old love once more. This secret sympathy is perhaps the only reason 
that this Dharma is merely scorned and not actively hunted. 
However, try as they might, the compassion and optimism of the Phoe- 
nixes inevitably fades as time goes by. Relatives die, times change, and 
sometimes the Kuei-jin herself is even responsible for some great family 


~~~~~ 
~ 
~ 
tragedy (usually committed during a period of shadow soul). Such events can 
unhinge even the most devoted members of this Dharma unless they possess 
absolute devotion to their cause, and after a time most Phoenixes are far more 
pragmatic than idealistic when it comes to restoring harmony to their old 
lives. Many also start looking for a bigger picture, tending to larger groups of 
mortals and sheltering them from the dark indulgences of other shen. They go 
from viewing their own lives as the key to their redemption to seeing all human 
life as necessary to achieve enlightenment. Make no mistake, though. These 
Kuei-jin are unholy terrors when they feel their protectorates are threatened. 
More than one kyonshi has discovered that affinity for life and the higher soul 
by no means excludes warriors. 
The strangest thing about this Dharma is that it has produced no known 
bodhisattvas. As soon as they reach a certain level of enlightenment, elder 
Phoenixes simply disappear into thin air, and even powerful divinations cannot 
determine their fate for certain. Naturally, the Quincunx and others are quick 
to use this fact as an example of how this Dharma must be fundamentally 
Ylawed” in some way or another, and they step up persecution of this Dharma 
accordingly. Of course, the Phoenixes simply claim that it proves that their ways 
are correct. However, even they admit that the absence of bodhisattvas and 
other powerful elders makes their unlives more politically dangerous than those 
of other Kuei-jin. As for the missing elders themselves, perhaps the Sixth Age 
will shed some light on their true fates.. . . 
Training: Phoenixes typically “train” by spending as much time as they can 
among mortals, studying their interactions and learning what it takes both to 
heal them and stir their imaginations. Many take to the arts in some form or 
another as a means of expressing their hopeful sentiments to mortals at large, and 
there have been more than a few fairly reputable artists in the last century who 
were actually counted among the members of this Dharma. 
Dharmic Strength: Bonds of Living Harmony 
All Phoenixes are exceptionally attuned to mortal emotions and manners. 
Their players receive a free retest on all Empathy and Etiquette tests with mortals. 
All Phoenixes also receive a free Compassionate Social Trait, which cannot be 
lost permanently as long as they remain on this Dharma. Most Phoenixes go to 
great lengths to avoid injuring mortals if it is at all possible in a given situation, 
although they receive no special benefits for doing so. 
Dharmic Weakness: Tending Orchids 
Phoenixes are doomed to lose themselves among the teeming masses of 
humanity, where the ravages of the Demon, the hunger and more eventually 
take their toll on those the Kuei-jin cares about. As a result, most Phoenixes 
choose one person in particular they wish to shelter from the ravages of their new 
condition. They are extremely loyal guardians, but any harm to this chosen 
mortal brings down the terrible wrath of the Phoenix. All Phoenixes must take 
the Flaw: Ward, representing a close friend or family member from their mortal 
days whom they are especially dedicated to protecting. They are two Traits up 
on any challenge to resist harming this individual, but their increased attention 
toward one mortal inevitably draws the notice of enemies willing to use the ward 


Traits down on all Social Tests) until she has taken suitable revenge against the 
one who dared to harm her chosen mortal. Should the ward die, another must 
be chosen within a month. This cycle of pain and protection cannot end short 
of reaching dah. 
TENETS: 
1: Return to the world from which you came. 
2: Repay the debts of your human life. 
3: Help others to find the unique value of humanity. 
4: Fight the Demon and deny monstrosity. 
5: Live not with extremes or balance, but simply well. 
6: Wake the sleeper who shuns experience. Life is the arising 
7: Never deny the joys and sorrows of life. 
8: Return to your mortal ways; seek your human state. 
of experiences. 
Concepts: Shopkeeper, public servant, professor, student, poet, artist 
Affiliations: Mankind, the color gold and the east direction. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Birds of paradise, clear skies, celebra- 
Quote: “Why return to this world, only to ignore it?” 
tions of birth, spinning tops, kites 
T H E  T E M ~ E S T O E  
INWARD Eocus 
VIRTUE: 
BALANCE 
All the universe is a system of push and pull, give and take. It should make 
sense, then, that some vampires are dedicated to finding the perfection at the 
center of such eternal reactions. Kuei-jin who follow the Tempest Dharma are 
models of diversity and singular function in one stroke; their wide interests 
matched only by their hunger for knowledge. Whereas the Rootless Trees 
approach Balance as a matter of finding lessons by hopping from life to life, 
Tempests prefer to sit in the well of the chaos that is creation and draw their 
experiences from the storm swirling all around them. Other Kuei-jin have 
trouble puzzling their ways through the mysterious facades of the Tempests, 
unable to reconcile how Tempests can take tea with demons one day and dance 
in the halls of Heaven the next. For the Tempests, however, such seeming 
contradiction only underscores the foundation of their Dharma - 
that enlight- 
enment exists in the void between two poles. 
Like the Rootless Trees who share their Dharmic Virtue, the Tempests are 
invariably wanderers either in truth or in ideal, always pushing on to another 
goal in hopes of rounding out their soul ever more completely. All things are 
worthy of study, say the Tempests, but only if one remembers that study to the 
exclusion of all else is to deny the magnificence of creation itself. This is not to 
say that the Tempests lack focus; quite the contrary, in fact. When a Kuei-jin of 
this Dharma expresses an interest in a subject, he spares little expense to track 


down everything he can about it until he becomes a master in his field. Existence 
may be a matter of moderation to the followers of Balance, but nothing said it 
had to be moderation born of mediocrity! Indeed, many Tempests strive 
constantly to raise their personal bars higher and higher, and a piece of 
information never leaves their hands once it passes their way. These Kuei-jin 
simply strive not to overbalance themselves in one area or another. 
Ultimately, the Tempests strive to find what lies in between mortal and 
vampire, spirit and matter, and this quest eventually leads them away from the 
material, elemental aspects of Kuei-jin society and into deep contemplation of 
the mysteries of the Kuei-jin soul. Many elder Tempests are masters of arts that 
allow for introspection and spiritual education, and they puzzle constantly about 
matters both large and small concerning the undead condition and its relation 
to the universe around them. Their mastery of a multitude of subjects aside, these 
masters claim to be searching for what lies beyond the gateway of enlighten- 
ment. If the riddles and koans of this Dharma are correct, they surmise, the 
answer can be nothing less than the universe itself, and so they seek to become 
one with all things by denying any strong ties to a particular object or condition. 
Training: Most Tempests fit nicely in the Western conception of a 
“Renaissance thinker.” They strive to master a wide variety of skills, from 
mundane labor to hidden occult lore to one more Kuei-jin Discipline. There- 
fore, their training is an eclectic affair designed to expose them to many different 
subjects but immerse them innone, allowing them to choose their destiny freely. 
Great measures are taken to balance the forces of Yin and Yang simmering 
beneath the Kuei-jin’s skin, and while they take pains to study the Hun and its 
devotion to duty, Tempests also probe and develop the Demon carefully. Some 
think the Tempests are shallow, drinking deeply of nothing, but such modera- 
tion is what allows them to have the proper perspective between the clashing 
forces of the universe. 
Dharmic Strength: Eye of the Storm 
Existing as they do in an unlife of moderation and temperance, the 
Tempests are capable of remarkable feats of restraint when called for. Once per 
session, the Tempest’s player may receive a free retest on any fire, wave or 
shadow soul Test, making the Tempest much less likely to fly off the handle than 
their more temperamental brethren. 
Dharmic Weakness: Faintly Fading Winds 
Paradoxical as it seems, excessive moderation can do as much harm to the 
soul as overindulgence can, and the Tempests are prime examples of this 
principle in action. While their Dharma may espouse forbearance, many 
Tempests become reactionary after a while, moving one step behind the world 
because they are too cautious to really embrace the chances that are given to 
them. Because of their hesitant ways, all Tempests receive the Negative Trait: 
Predictabk, which cannot be bought off short of reaching dah. Furthermore, any 
time the character feels he has overindulged in a particular activity, it ruins his 
careful sense of balance. When such occasions come to pass, the Tempest is one 
Trait down on all challenges until such time as he has properly atoned for the 
indulgence with activities like long meditation or forbearance of material goods. 
The Storyteller may enforce this penalty if the player does not. 


TENETS: 
1: Pull all things near and make them part of yourself. 
2: Balance the needs and desires on all poles, that they strive 
3: Never stray from the core of your nature. 
4: Realize the potential to learn from all people. 
5: Remember the lessons of the past. Apply them to the future. 
6: Be consistent in your rewards and punishments. 
7: Teach others the virtues of peace and moderation. 
8: Bring harmony to the spirit worlds though balancing the 
against each other. 
living realm. 
Concepts: Ascetic, monk, teacher, servant, philosopher, laborer, poet, 
Affiliations: The material world, the color gray and the center direction. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Cyclones, mindless spiral helixes, ex- 
Quote: “The view from the center of the storm is the most breathtaking of all.” 
lunatic 
ploding fireworks, ripples in water. 
T H E  
E A C E O F T H E  SODS 
VIRTUE: 
HUNAND 
p’o 
Not all Kuei-jin accept that they are being punished for some transgression. 
Indeed, some Kuei-jin look on their new state with hope and reverence, sure that 
they have been chosen by Heaven for some great destiny. The followers of the 
Face of the Gods Dharma are prime examples of the latter philosophy. These 
Kuei-jin see themselves as souls who once attained godhood, but then fell to a 
lesser status once more due to some great error. According to the Divine Faces, 
their new state is proof that they were once something more than mere mortal; 
that their death was just a transition state, and that it is their joss to reclaim the 
title of gods once more. After all, the Godlings reason, why else would they have 
been given another chance in a form so assuredly marked by signs of godhood, 
but at the same time is riddled with so many temptations as well? This new life 
must be a test of some kind, a training ground for the place in Heaven they are 
meant to achieve - 
and woe to the poor being who stands in the way of a 
Godling along the road to the Celestial Ministry! 
The unlives of these bizarre and eerily compelling Kuei-jin center around 
the nature of godly contradictions. They meditate ceaselessly on how their 
nature stands - 
barely glimpsed omniscience side by side with the darkest lusts 
outside of Yomi - 
and think of ways to combine and strengthen both sides 
without losing oneself to either total duty or the Demon. To their minds, the 
Divine Faces must search out the source of this conflict between insatiable evil 
and infinite compassion and overcome it if they wish to reclaim their godhood. 
Thus, they must experiment with all manner of situations and ideals in the hopes 
of finding the right way to unite their disparate halves once more. Other Kuei- 
jin are often fooled into thinking that the Godlings seek some sort of blissful 
transformation of their undead state. Such nalve vampires change their minds 


quickly when the Divine Face decides to explore the nature of demonic fury. 
Godlings do their best to be the best in ways both wise and wicked, and they 
make no secret of the fact that they will demonstrate either side of their 
personality as they see fit, Demon or not! According to the sacred texts of the 
Divine Faces - 
the Red Book of the Iron Bndge and The Celestial Nail - 
the 
Heavens can be restored to their former glory only by the return of the gods who 
have lost their way. The Godlings have no intention of disappointing. 
Given the openness with which they hold their natures, it is unsurprising 
to discover that many Divine Faces have mortal cults flourishing around them, 
which the Faces administer with all the grace and horror that befits their divine 
status. (It takes a rare mortal to deny a god that walks among them bestowing 
favors and influence in exchange for mere worship!) Not that most Godlings 
truly care about their “parishioners.” Such mortals are a means to the end of 
returning to Heaven once more, a font of Chi waiting to be tapped. Indeed, even 
in the relatively tolerant world of the Middle Kingdom, many Kuei-jin meet 
Godlings for the first time while carrying out a court mission to order the 
Godlings to stop demonstrating their powers in public. Of course, such actions 
are perfectly reasonable to their minds. When one aspires to godhood, after all, 
who cares if the mortals catch a glimpse of your power along the way? 
Training: The training of Divine Faces tends to be abrupt and to the point. 
Another Godling finds the Kuei-jin and instructs him in the lessons of reincar- 
nation, divinity, deific values and the need to embrace both sin and virtue in 
order to reclaim the favor of Heaven and return once more. Many Godlings are 
also taught the nuances of etiquette and courtly manners during this time. The 
Kuei-j in must present themselves as nothing less than divine! 
Dharmic Strength: Mantle of Godhood 
The Godlings are nothing if not majestic, and they learn early on how to 
project a formidable otherworldly aura to the lesser beings around them when 
necessary. Sometimes this face is full of the Divine Radiance of Heaven; 
sometimes it is the Eyes of Hell. Either way, the results are bound to impress. The 
Godling may use each visage once per story. Divine Radiance requires a Yang 
Trait to activate, while the Eyes of Hell requires a Trait of Demon Chi. When 
Divine Radiance is active, the Kuei-jin receives the Traits Compassionate, 
Commanding and Magnetic for the remainder of the scene, as well as a free retest 
on all Social Tests related to empathy and courtly grace. By contrast, the Eyes 
of Hell is treated the same as the Delirium (see the Demon Shintai Discipline in 
Laws of the East for details), sending mortals scurrying or cowering in terror 
before the anger of the Godling. 
Dharmic Weakness: Vanity of the Lotus 
Convinced of their own perfection, Godlings can be absolutely insufferable 
company at times, particularly around those they consider to be “lesser beings” 
(i.e., everyone but them). Divine Faces receive a permanent Condescending 
Negative Trait, and they are one Trait down to resist fire soul when it’s directly 
sparked by the actions of a lesser being. The Godlings find it difficult to control 
themselves when they discover that “mere mortals and other rabble” are still 
capable of upsetting their carefully laid plans. 


TENETS: 
1: Develop your divine nature. 
2: Expand both godly and demonic consciousness. 
3: Accept the veneration of mortals, but answer their prayers in return. 
4: Harness Chi to bring divinity back to your dead form. 
5: Act according to the tenets of your Godly Voice, and your Godly 
6: Visit the Heavens to remember what you have lost. 
7: Practice ritual and tradition to empower your own essence. 
8: Commune with the spirits; learn of their messages from Heaven. 
Desire shall be fulfilled. 
Concepts: Priest, cultist, criminal, magician, psychologist, traditionalist, 
Affiliations: The heavenly realms, the color violet and the south direction 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Temple ceremonies, stands of burning 
Quote: “Perfection is my birthright, wisdom my key. What else do I need?” 
venerated ancestor, wacko 
incense and candles, shooting stars 
THE S P I R I T O F T H E  
LIVING 
€ARTH 
VIRTUE: 
YINAND 
Y A N ~  
While every Kuei-jin recognizes the existence of spirits and pays homage (or 
at least lip service) to the ethereal world, some Kuei-jin return along the Road 
Back convinced that they have been given the gifts of spirit-sight in order to fulfill 
the wishes of the spirits they often ignored in life. These Kuei-jin strive to bring 
balance to the natural world and peace to the shades of the departed, though 
typically more of the former than the latter, since the Bone Flowers are quite 
jealous of their trade with the dead. Early in their new existence, the Kuei-jin come 
across the staggering array of spirits in the world and recognize their wisdom, 
humbling themselves before the mighty lords of the Mirror Lands and seeking to 
serve the Earth as best they can. While Kuei-jin of animistic backgrounds 
understand and respect the goals of the Cerulean Veils, many others consider them 
either harmless eccentrics or dangerous eco-terrorists, depending on the indi- 
vidual in question, but the truth lies somewhere in between. 
Veils move in a strange and beautiful world, keeping the taboos of the spirits 
(which helps to explain a lot of their peculiar reputation) while tending to the 
mundane concerns of the environment around them. Following such guidelines 
means appeasing the spirits, and appeasing the spirits means another bit of the 
world will be explained for the vampire - 
no small payment in an existence 
fraught with open questions and seeming philosophical dead-ends! These Kuei- 
jin keep only a nominal interest in the mortal world, considering it transitory 
and unimportant next to the energies of the earth itself. They typically interact 
with modem society only in order to feed or when the spirits command them to 
do so. Other Kuei-jin sometimes see these vampires as little more than slaves to 
the whims of the Mirror Lands, but that concept is overly simplistic. Cerulean 
Veils follow the dictates of the spirits because that is what they feel is expected 


of them in their new unlives. To them, such obedience is no more absurd than 
expecting a child to obey its parents. Even when they do enter into regular 
society, the Veils are often marked by a kind, otherworldly air. While they are 
more than capable of defending themselves and the spirits they hold dear, most 
Veils typically have so little concern for the perils of the mortal world that they 
refuse to arm themselves against it as others do. 
In the dark days of the Fifth Age, however, more and more Veils are being 
called into the modem world to right wrongs done to their beloved spirits and even 
to defend the land against those who would defile it. As such, they are becoming 
a more and more common sight in courts across the Middle Kingdom. Ancestors 
debate the value of allowing these wise Kuei-jin into their courts to battle the 
Yama Kings against the threat presented by the loyalty these Kuei-jin give to the 
spirit worlds over their fellow undead. For their part, the Veils seek only what they 
always have: an Earth in balance and an unlife guided by the will of the spirits. 
Training: These Kuei-jin place agreat deal of emphasis on ritual, ceremony 
and the observance of taboos. However, aside from some basic grounding on 
different issues, each Veil is generally left to his own devices when it comes to 
inventing rites to use and learning the ways of the spirit worlds. This individu- 
ality serves only to confuse other Kuei-jin further, since - 
while every Veil 
follows an elaborate system of chants and rituals - 
no two members of this 
Dharma do things quite the same way! 
Dharmic Strength: Clasping Hands with Heaven 
Attuned as they are to the invisible world, Veils gain several potent benefits 
when it comes to dealing with spirits and the spirit worlds. First of all, Veils 
ignore the first level ofNotoriety they may receive every story automatically, as 
their reputation with the spirits defuses what would normally be a hostile 
situation. Veils are up two Traits on all Social Tests with spirits except demons 
and other creatures of Yomi. Finally, the Veils receive a free level of the Rites 
Background due to their ritualistic upbringing. 
Dharmic Weakness: Lost In the Mists 
Absorbed as they are in the spirit worlds, Veils have trouble relating to 
mortals, and they are two Traits down on all Social Tests with mortals unless 
they have known the person in question for at least one story. They even have 
trouble dealing with others of their own kind, and they are one Trait down on 
all Social Tests with unfamiliar Kuei-jin. Finally, the special place these Kuei- 
jin hold in the eyes of some spirits only marks them in the eyes of others. Yomi 
spirits always make it their special task to attack, harass and otherwise badger 
these Kuei-jin above any others in the area. 


TENETS: 
1: Obey the will of the spirits. 
2: Perform the proper ceremonies to remain pure. 
3: Shun the defiled. 
4: Tread across the Earth to absorb its full glory. 
5: Pass wisdom to others freely. 
6: Help others to surpass the shortcomings of the flesh. 
7: Renew your thanks and commitment to enlightenment each day. 
8: Observe your taboos rigidly, that you may overcome your curse. 
~ ~ ~ _ _ _ _ _ _  
Concepts: Wanderer, ritualist, competitor, fang shih 
Affiliations: The spirit realms, the color blue and west direction 
Auspicious Omens and Svmbols: Shrines and statuettes. tea ceremonies. 
torii arches, sacred groves and ponds, parades 
shame that mortals have forgotten such a glorious heritage.” 
Quote: “Between Yin and Yang, Heaven and Earth, lies humanity. It is a 


~ E H E N N A  
WEARSA 
PURPLE 
DRESS 
TONIC~HT 
by Ed Spymoun 
I 
This story is a LARPer’s cautionary tale in the truest sense. Once you read 
through to the chilling, world-altering finale, you’ll see why. 
Vague Threats 
Uglyface Johnson loved the frog pond. Each night, before the Licks oozed 
out of Dallas and Fort Worth to buy his secrets, Uglyface studied himself in the 
pond’s mirrored surface. There were many Nosferatu in this unattractive 
metropolis; they all hated their reflections. 
The Nosferatu looked over his shoulder. He didn’t want Iron Teeth 
McGinty to walk up and witness his vanity. 
Uglyface’s reflection smiled at him, and he smiled back. He saw the spots 
on his face, mottled in such interesting patterns. And his reflection was trying 
to tell him something he couldn’t quite make out. Uglyface sounded out the 
words with the ripples of the water. “You.. . must.. . taste.. . as.. . good as.. . as.. . 
you look.” 
He expected his reflection to spring out of the water and suck him down, 
but his Final Death came at him from behind instead. Uglyface felt the blood 
draining from his stomach. He looked down at the row of claws jutting from his 
belly just below his heart. Wooden fingernails. Uglyface remembered what his 
sire had told him about wooden fingernails. 
He saw teeth, then blackness. His mouth tasted like ash; then there was only 
beauty. A vague darkness near oblivion; a beauty greater than his own. 
Information Networks 
King Roachman studied his appearance in the mirror. He centered his 
monocle, sweeping the flakesofcrusty face-skinaway witha brush. His foot-long 
fingers knotted his tie, moving like spider legs. 
The door to Roachman’s haven slammed shut as someone who was invisible 
but now wasn’t entered. “Ready for a night of wining and dining with the undead 
of Dallas?” 
Roachman went back to his tie. “Hello, McGinty. Glad you’re coming with 
me. No one’s gonna try anything stupid with you there.” 
“I’ve got some juicy information to sell tonight anyway. Have you heard 
from Uglyface?” 
“Nope. Is he missing now too? Lots of us have turned up missing lately, 
according to my sources. You think somebody’s offing Nosferatu? Maybe those 
hunter fellows I’ve been hearing about from my sources?” 


“I guess. Glad I stood him up last night. I was busy in my occult library 
reading up on the Wan Xian.” 
Roachman remembered the meeting because he had set it up himself. 
Uglyface and McGinty were supposed to meet Hortense’s little crippled friend 
tonight after the Elysium meeting at the community center. A week prior - 
at 
the previous Elysium meeting - 
they were supposed to hammer out some lies 
to keep the cripple’s mistress off their backs. No big deal that the preliminary 
meeting with Uglyface didn’t happen, though. 
“Go ahead and take the meeting with that wheelchair fellow and tell him 
there’s a new BSD hive in Sherman,” Roachman said. ‘That should keep 
Hortense jumping at shadows for a while. You know how she’s always trying to 
fight the designs of the Wyrm.” 
Roachman finished tying his tie, and he and Iron Teeth set out into the 
tunnels. McGinty protested that the king’s route would take forever, then 
suggested taking the tunnel up to Grapevine then going southwest straight into 
the city. Roachman didn’t want to use that tunnel because he didn’t want to 
walk into Elysium with the shit of the cattle all over his shoes. Their route 
decided, Roachman and McGinty crawled deep beneath the city, past Roachman’s 
traps and ghouled albino alligators, deep into the earthen tunnels of the 
Nosferatu of Dallas in nights long forgotten. 
‘(Who you think‘s offing us, Roachman?” 
“Not sure. This is a rough town to be Nosferatu. Everyone’s got a thing 
against us. What’s one Sewer Rat more or less? That mage up from New Orleans 
says the Gauntlet was all fucked up at the pond. He thinks something hopped 
out of the Umbra and ate Uglyface.” 
“HOW’S 
he know that?” 
“True Magic is beyond my grasp, the mage told me. He said the monster had 
an Old and Hungry Resonance, though.” 
Roachman squinted his tiny little eyes and peered left and right, not 
remembering which way to turn. McGinty sorted through all the creatures in the 
world of darkness that they inhabited, trying to imagine what kind might have 
such a Resonance. 
“It’s not.. . one of them, is it?” 
“Oh no. It couldn’t be. Absolutely not. Well.. . maybe.” 
McGinty and Roachman turned right, and after stooping through a series 
of warrens and mazes that even the King of the Sewers could hardly navigate, 
they arrived in one of the storm drains beneath Plano. 
(‘Roachman, what are we going to do about this monster from the Umbra?” 
“Sell the information, I guess.” 
Iron Teeth liked the sound of that. “Maybe we could use it to solve our 
Hortense problem. Make sure she hears it from the rumor mill. Then, after you 
sell the same info to her little gimp friend tonight, she’ll think it’s solid. She’ll 
throw a fit, then the prince will get fed up and stick her out in the sun for a few 
minutes, if you know what I mean. We teach her how to fish, then we watch her 
hang herself.” 
“Good thinking, McGinty.” 
Q F H B N N A  Wtxns A PunpLE Dncss TONIGHT 


“But if there really is something hopping out of the Umbra and eating 
Nosferatu, it’ll wipe out the whole clan before the city handles the damage 
she’ll cause in the meantime. You know the Brujah. They’re one-man- 
wrecking crews.” 
Roachman smiled. “You’re half right, McGinty. Hortense is a trouble 
magnet. She’ll step in this big pile ofdog shit, then after she draws this thing out, 
our plans will come to fruition. 
“But first, we must make sure the rumor makes it to her. Hurry ahead and 
take it to LSD.” 
Impotence and Ambition 
Hortense of Clan Brujah came to Elysium to convince the Ventrue prince 
that Dallas needed cleaning up, and that she was just the Lick to do it. She 
warned him about the nascent Sabbat, she warned him about the encroaching 
werewolves, she told him of the rumors she’d heard inNovember 1999 about the 
hunters whose auras shined like gold. Somewhere during her diatribe about 
Nosferatu overcrowding in Dallas, she started screaming. 
“Those liars! The Nos are sewer-dwelling, shit-sucking liars! And I can 
prove it!” 
Theprince,forhispart,didhisbestto tuneherout. Justafewfeetaway, asmall 
crowd listened to the Toreador primogen extemporize about some new form of 
fiction. “The whole enterprise is doomed,” the effete Toreador droned, “because 
it uses a comedic structure to tell a tragic tale.” The prince couldn’t keep up with 
the conversation because of the crackpot Brujah shouting in his ear. 
‘This is all very interesting, Hortense, but I still don’t see why you should 
be sheriff.” 
“I’m a Brujah.” 
“We’ve already got a Gangrel sheriff. He’s loyal even though his clan 
“He’s a dove. You need a Brujah hawk.” 
“No I don’t.” 
“I’ve got Fortitude and Protean that I learned in the Sabbat before I 
reformed and moved to Dallas. I’m ideally suited.” 
The prince did some math in his head and determined that having spent so 
much time learning Disciplines, Hortense could not possibly have directed her 
experience into learning how to use those Disciplines effectively, considering 
how old she was. 
“I don’t think that’s a good idea, Hortense. Sometimes a sheriffs got to be 
a diplomat instead of a cop. I’m not sure you possess the vision necessary to 
enforce our Traditions.” 
Hortense rolled her eyes. “Fuck all that. The only way to keep us safe is to 
kill anyone who threatens the Masquerade. You might as well name me sheriff 
because that’s already what I do. Without me and my ally, Stumpy, this whole 
town would’ve met its Final Death long ago.” 
The prince pretended to notice something across the room and started 
walking away. “Oh look. I think that’s Ludovici waving to you. Go see what he 
wants, and I’ll be content to consider what you’ve told me tonight.” 
abandoned us.” 


Hortense looked over at Ludo. The Malkavian wasn’t waving to her at all, 
but staring at some stranger in a purple dress. Hortense put aside her clan’s long- 
standing hatred for all Malkavians and approached her demented friend. 
Dialogue Is Not Action 
Somewhere amid the swirls of the auras and tracers left by the drama of 
“Ludo ?” 
Ludovici continued looking at the strange Kindred in the purple dress. 
Hortense’s aura was a deep purple, just like the stranger’s dress. Ludovici’s 
irredeemable madness suggested that there must be some connection. The 
stranger seemed oddly familiar with the prince as well, although she had never 
met the Ventrue before tonight. 
Elysium, Ludovici Sinistrati D’Ameno tasted a familiar voice. 
“L&! 
” 
Hortense was talking to him. How best to explain what he was doing? In his 
madness, he heard her staring at him. He remembered that he had something to 
tell her. 
“Ludo? What the fuck are you doing?” 
Ludovici fled his perceptions and returned his sight to the Realm of 
Waking. He smiled at Hortense as ifhe had just noticed her. Her glare scared the 
look from his face. He looked down at his shoes and mumbled. 
“I’m a weird cat,” he said. “I try not to romanticize it.” 
“Are you swimming in auras again?” 
“Yeah. I saw a good one, but it confused me.” 
The Malkavian could tell Hortense was pissed off about something. That 
was always a safe assumption with her, considering how hot-blooded her clan 
was. She glowered about the room, edging closer to him. 
“The prince is trying to fire me again,” she whispered. 
“There’s no time for that now. I’ve heard something. Something big.” 
Ludovici was disappointed that this provocative statement hadn’t cheered 
her up. Still, he told her about his conversation with Iron Teeth McGinty. Just 
after sundown, they’d both arrived at Elysium. In exchange for a small boon, he 
told her, McGinty had told him about the disappearance of several Nosferatu. 
Something from the Umbra was up to no good. Again. 
“The End Times are here, just like it says in the Book of Nod, Ludo,” 
Hortense said. “This thing from the Umbra, this thing killing Nosferatu, is 
clearly one of the Nictuku.” 
‘‘I think that’s a pretty crazy theory, Hortense.” 
“Good God, man, it’s the only one that makes sense! That clan is complicit 
in its own destruction.” 
Ludo allowed his perceptions to catch up to him, and he swam back into 
the auras. Somehow, it was no defense against Hortense’s designs. She was 
sucking him in like she did every time. Why did she have to have such an 
interesting aura? 
“Here’s what we do, Ludo: We kidnap Iron Teeth McGinty and feed him 
to the Nictuku. That shows it we’re serious. Then we help it round up the rest 
of the Nosferatu. When it’s sated - 
taking care of the Nosferatu overpopula- 
C ~ E H E N N A  WEARS 
A PURPLE 
DRESS 
TONIGHT 


tion - 
the Nictuku will leave. The prince will have to acknowledge my 
talents then.” 
T h a t  sounds like a nice plan, Hortense. But how can we be sure the Umbral 
monster is a Nictuku?” 
Hortense reached into her purse and grabbed her cell phone. “I’ll call 
Stumpy and tell him to ask Iron Teeth McGinty when he meets him tonight. 
Maybe the Sewer Rat will have learned something new by then. And after he 
finds out what we need to know, Stumpy’ll bring McGinty in.” 
The Lines Cross 
Hortense and Ludovici left Elysium and walked through downtown Dallas. 
With a few hours to kill while Stumpy acquired McGinty, they decided to get 
fucked up on some changeling blood down at the May Molloch. 
“You know,” Ludovici said, “among his kind, Stumpy is called a ‘metis.”’ 
“Yeah, I know. I knew it when I first saw him.” 
“No, I said metis -you 
can’t possibly know what a metis is. I learned of it 
“I learned many strange things during the time I spent fighting the Wyrm 
Ludovici couldn’t argue with that. He changed the subject. 
“So what’s this place we’re going to?’’ 
“The May Molloch. The changelings meet there once a week for some kind 
of court. Strangely, it occurs on the same day as our Elysium. I know you dig auras, 
and you’ll see some tripped-out auras on fae blood.” 
Ludovici hugged his coat around him and walked faster. He walked with 
Hortense between him and the street. 
through the Malkavian Madness Network over the last month.” 
alongside the Garou, Ludo.” 
0.. 
Stumpy wrapped his jaws around his chair’s joystick and steered down the 
path that led to the frog pond. He took it slow, making patient turns andcoasting 
down hills. The motor didn’t make much noise at such slow speeds. Although 
the metis could see in pitchdarkness, he knew the path by heart. He’dcome here 
with Hortense a hundred times. And aside from Hortense, he’d dealt with 
McGinty more than any other Lick in town. 
He found McGinty waiting for him. Always the same place, always on time. 
“We know about the thing from the Umbra that’s eating Nosferatu,” 
“Both your master and her insane friend owe me boons for this, you know.” 
“Agreed. They’ll owe you. Is it Nictuku?” 
‘‘Our Nosferatu sources think so. You know I’ll expect- Aieeeeee!” 
Iron Teeth McGinty’s head burst into flame. He screamed as his flailing 
hands slapped at his face. Stumpy felt the elements lingering in the air, waiting 
for him to realize them. He reached out to Gaia. McGinty’s eyeballs exploded 
from his head. The vampire collapsed to the ground. 
With a whip of his back, Stumpy fell from his wheelchair and inched 
himself over to the collapsed vampire. Stumpy thought about his missing feet, 
and his missing hands. The thoughts fueled his rage, and he changed form 
Stumpy said. “We just want to know this: Is it Nictuku?” 


instantaneously. He snarled and went for the vampire’s throat. Somewhere in 
the back of his mind, Stumpy heard his ancestors beating war drums. 
The metis felt the flames on his lips. He leaped up with a yelp and swayed 
back and forth trying to find a balance on his feetless legs. Stumpy fell to the 
ground. He called upon Gaia again for water to extinguish the flames. McGinty’s 
teeth faded from hot orange to dull gray as the evaporating water hissed away 
into vapor. 
‘‘I want to tell you a story, while you’re in a condition to appreciate it: There 
used to be this pack of Garou. Two of them loved each other very much. From 
their forbidden passions came a child. But the kid was fucked up, see. Twisted 
and deformed; I mean his soul as well as his body. The kid had some weird 
appetites - 
something I’m sure you can understand with those crazy teeth of 
yours. But the pack must have figured that Gaia needs all the help She can get, 
because they tolerated that hungry little shit for years. Until he was old enough 
to join his pack in the fight against the Damned, that is - 
he had a bad habit 
of eating his vanquished foes. 
“The packdidn’t like the whole vampire-eating thing. His pack took him into 
the city then cut off his hands and feet. But they couldn’t just leave him for dead. 
They entrusted him to a bad luck princess they’d fought alongside for years, but 
told her to never return to Garou lands. She’s helped the kid get back on his feet.” 
McGinty lifted his eyeless face from the dirt. He tried to laugh. “Must.. . 
be.. . figurative.. .” 
“Real funny, Sewer Rat! But I didn’t tell you end of my story. Remember 
how I said the kid used to eat vampires? His favorite was Nosferatu.” 
Stumpy snapped his jaws over McGinty’s ear. He ripped the cooked meat 
off McGinty’s face. The metis rolled on his back, chewing the Nosferatu’s flesh. 
McGinty screamed. Blood streamed from his eye sockets, and horror washed 
over him. 
Stumpy swallowed the last bits of McGinty’s nose. “Don’t fuck with me, 
Leech. 1’11 light you up every time. Now get up off your ass and help me back into 
my chair.” 
Distractions 
“Ludo? I’m trippin’ balls.” 
“Me too.” 
“What are you thinking about?” 
“About drinking another faerie.” 
‘This one’s scared. I can see his aura. 
Hortense and Ludovici gazed up at the stars, nestled in the trash bags 
piled behind the May Molloch. The changeling boy squirmed between 
them. If it seemed like he was about to worm away, they grabbed his wrists 
and bared their fangs. 
‘They killed J.F.K. here, Hortense.” 
“I remember. I was there in brighter days.” 
Hortense and Ludovici had gone on something of a binge, draining about 
a third of the faerie court in the last 30 minutes. The blood did strange things 
to their dead brains. 
9 E H E N N A  W E A R S  A P U R P L E  Dnsss T O N I ~ H T  
e 


“I can see your aura, Ludo. You’re fucked up, dude.” 
Hortense heard their van pulling up. It arrived with that familiar hiss of its 
loose power-steering belt. She heard the backdoor slide open and the hydraulic 
lift lowering Stumpy’s chair to the ground. The sound of his wheels came closer 
to them. Ludovici looked up at the sound and threw a few trash bags over their 
changeling captive, his paranoia overwhelming the half-hearted Arcadian 
protest. Stumpy rolled up on the pile of trash. 
“You didn’t tell me you’d be out back,” he said. 
“Did you get ... that big-teeth guy I sent you to get?” 
“Yeah, Hortense. He’s waiting in the van. He ain’t got no face.” 
“Did he say the Umbral monster was a Nictuku like I thought?” 
“Definitely.” 
The world reoriented itself as Hortense sat up. She picked moldy cheese 
from her hair and looked over at her metis companion. “NOW all we need to do 
is find the Iron Teeth McGinty and take Nictuku to it.” 
The changeling boy struggled again. Ludovici socked him in the face with 
a brutal chop to calm him down. “I think I know where the beast lurks,” he 
whispered. “NOW that I am completely out of my head, the language of the auras 
is apparent to me. I think I’ve already seen the creature tonight, but we must 
make sure.” Ludo pulled himself out of the pile and brushed himself off. “But I’m 
not sure that Elysium is the safest place for this betrayal. This Nictuku is no doubt 
very dangerous.” 
But Hortense was already walking to the van. “NO more dangerous than the 
three BSDs I killed when I was in Montreal last year. Let’s go.” 
Ludovici realized that, for tonight at least, Hortense was his clanmate. He 
volunteered to drive. 
Population Control 
Elysium had peaked by the time Hortense and Ludovici showed up. The 
current scene was strictly post-mortem. The proclamation of the prince that 
there would be no more Embraces in Dallas for the next 50 years hadn’t gone 
over well with the assembled Licks. Most of them had left in a huff, and the few 
who remained stood around seeing who could prophecy the most utter doom. 
The Toreador primogen, though, was still there, deep into the discussion he had 
begun earlier that evening. His audience stood and snored. Stumpy, and the 
disoriented fae boy in his lap, rolled past the keeper of Elysium, who figured it 
was too late in the evening to start kickingout Lupines and changelings. Instead, 
he invited them to join him at the bar. 
Ludovici placed his hand on Hortense’s shoulder to steady himself as he 
prepared to surrender to his perceptions. With an explosion of color, the 
emotions and secret thoughts that lingered in the room revealed themselves to 
the Malkavian. He looked at the young stranger who sat at the right hand of the 
prince whispering things unheard by Kindred ears. 
“It is just as I suspected,” Ludovici gasped. “Gehenna wears a purple dress 
tonight.” 
“I know. I see it too.” 


With the fae blood in their systems, Hortense and Ludovici saw the thing 
for what it really was. It was not some new childe, some anonymous traveler, but 
an old and hungry evil, a curse inflicted by an Antediluvian on his childer. Her 
aura was a constantly exploding purple, a purple deeper than even Hortense 
could transmit, a purple that summed all the murderessness of the vampiric 
condition. Hortense and Ludovici felt the Curse of Caine heavy upon them. 
Hortense looked at Ludo. The disgruntled frown was gone. “It’s time, 
Ludo.” Was she nervous, perhaps? “Everything depends on this moment.” 
The pair approached the Nictuku. 
The woman in purple exuded the most charming presence even when 
perceived in the normal spectrum. She curtsied to each of them and made small 
talk about Dallas and how she was looking forward to making her haven here. 
As she talked, Ludovici watched Hortense growing increasingly skittish. Fi- 
nally, the tension exploded. 
“Look, you can cut the bullshit! We know you’re a Nictuku. We figured it 
all out.” 
“But we don’t fear you!” Ludovici added, just in time to keep the prince from 
calling a Blood Hunt on the monster in his Elysium. “In fact, we’ve brought you 
one of your clan’s errant childer. We’ll deliver the rest of them as soon as we can.” 
The woman didn’t seem to appreciate their generous offer. “I don’t know 
what you’re talking about, I’m not a - 
what did you say again? - 
Nictuku?” At 
the sound of the word, a few vampires turned to listen to the conversation. Even 
the Toreador primogen ceased in his ramblings. Roachman slipped quietly into 
the shadows with a look of terror and fear. 
Hortense leaned in and whispered to the ancient beast. “If I were aNictuku, 
I believe I’d do almost anything to take a bite out of Iron Teeth McGinty.” 
The thing’s eyes narrowed as a smile crossed her face. 
“Yes,” it said. “Did you know he actually has iron teeth? A descendant of 
Ludovici backed away from the Nictuku. “Time to leave, Hortense. Are you 
“No way. We’re so close, Ludo. Don’t crap out of me now!” 
The woman in purple ripped off Hortense’s arm and stuffed it into her 
growing mouth. The halls of Elysium echoed with screams. Hortense stood 
there, disbelief in her eyes. “This isn’t supposed to be the way it happens! I 
thought you ate Nosferatu!” 
“I do. And Brujah, and Malkavians, and on down the line. Each has its own 
flavor.” The Nictuku licked her lips, which were already swelling into turgid 
scars as the svelte young vampire melted away to reveal the creature’s immense 
true form. “The only thing I like more than vitae is fae blood. And Garou blood.” 
There was a quiet whimper from Stumpy’s direction, and a yellow pool 
collected under his chair. He put aside his species’ ancient hatred of all vampires 
-he 
and the Leeches had a common enemy now! 
Baba Yaga perhaps. He must be delicious.” 
still looking at her aura?” 
The Inevitable Showdown 
The Nictuku ripped through Elysium, tearing apart the Kindred in her 
wake. A legless neonate tried to drag himself to safety until the Nictuku planted 
C ~ E H E N N A  
WEARS 
A PURPLE 
DRESS T O N I ~ H T  


its massive foot in his back. The Toreador Primogen had lost his eyes and was 
clutching at his skull. Nothing beautiful transfixed him now. Only horror. A 
broken wooden fingernail in the heart of the prince held him immobile. For 
some reason, theNictukudidnot destroy him outright asshe hadso many others. 
Hortense and Ludovici huddled behind an overturned banquet table. 
Hortense grasped her bleeding shoulder while Ludo stared at the aura light show. 
“The whole room is purple now, Hortense.” 
‘Who fucking cares! We’re gonna die!” 
“We’re not going to die. I have an idea, but I am much too preoccupied right 
now to vocalize it.” He felt Hortense screaming something about how he should 
snap out of it. 
“I’m trying to be patient. We must wait for the prerequisite conditions to 
realize themselves.” The Nictuku fell upon the changeling and gulped him 
down. The creature’s purple aura wavered then threatened to black out the room 
while the changeling’s aura floated away into the ether. 
“Now!” Ludo leaped over the table and made his way through the door 
while the beast oriented itself to its new outlook on reality. 
At kast Stumpy won’t abandon me, Hortense thought as the Nictuku picked 
up Stumpy’s chair and hurled the shrieking metis across the room. The chair 
bent when it landed, trapping Stumpy underneath. 
Hortense huddled behind the table, unable to formulate a coherent escape 
with the fae blood swishing around in her head. She briefly considered making 
peace with her maker but quickly decided it was important to remain stand- 
offish at the end. Her hot-blooded Brujah heritage would permit nothing less. 
She presumed that no miracles would be forthcoming on her behalf. 
All hope seemed lost, but suddenly, Iron Teeth McGinty burst into the 
room. His bums had disappeared and most of his face had grown back. He now 
had a healthy complexion for a man with mottled green skin. Ludovici stumbled 
in after him, grasping at the door frame trying desperately to remain upright. He 
crawled across the room to rejoin Hortense as the Nictuku wheeled around and 
faced her new opponent. 
“McGinty!” the Nictuku screamed. 
“Absimiliard’s Concubine!” McGinty shouted back. “The Mistress with 
Wooden Claws! I haven’t seen you this side of the Gauntlet since you killed my 
sire. His old occult books told me how to finally defeat you!” 
McGinty lunged at the Nictuku and buried his iron fangs deep into her 
skull. Where the iron contacted the changeling blood in the beast’s system, a 
strange spectral feedback began. The Nictuku’s aura became a negative of itself 
and started shrinking. The aura around McGinty seemed to vibrate, speeding up 
to some grand explosion. Then the beast bit his head off and spit out 12 iron 
spikes. They left colorful trails in the air as they fell. 
Ludovici leaned over and whispered to Hortense. “That was fucking cool.” 
The Nictuku staggered about the room, holding the spot McGinty had 
bitten into. She howled in pain then ripped the Tremere primogen in two. No 
one in the room seemed to mind. 
“Nice tactic, the iron and changeling blood,” Hortense said. “But it looks 
like she’s still going strong.” 


“One again, Hortense, you underestimate your enemies. Her aura is 
diminishing, and thus her power. Now in comes the cavalry.” 
As if on cue, the remaining strength of the Dallas Nosferatu coalesced out 
of the shadows. Each held a broadsword reinforced to withstand the rigors of 
their advanced levels of Potence, and they all wore chain-mail vests beneath 
their clothing. The King of the Sewer led the creeping deployment, admonish- 
ing the Nictuku in a language Hortense didn’t understand. Then, only for a 
moment, a silence held the floor. The Nictuku roared, and the Nosferatu waded 
in to destroy her. 
Transferable Characters 
Hortense saw herself in the rear-view mirror, applying her makeup with her 
remaining hand while Stumpy desperately gripped the steering wheel of the van 
with his forearms. “The whole Nictuku thing ruined my buzz,” she said to 
Ludovici, who sat in the back seat holding his head. They heard a scream from 
somewhere inside the community center. 
“Hurry it up, Stumpy. The police are going to be here soon to investigate 
this disturbance.” 
“I’m far too mad for the police to catch,” Ludovici said. “But I’m worried 
about whoever wins that brawl in there. I’d like to be someplace else. Like 
Minnesota, maybe.” 
Stumpy whined and floored the pedal. The van merged onto 1-35 North as 
the vampires crawled under their seats to sleep the day away. Stumpy rolled 
down the window and licked his lips. He wondered what the Nosferatu tasted 
like in Minnesota. 
9 E H B N N A  W E A R S  A P U R P L E  DRESS 
T O N I ~ H T  
e 


by Carl Bowen 
WHATARETHE 
EOMORI. 
Fomori are the product of the fusion of a human and a spirit in service to the 
Wyrm. For a myriad of reasons and through a wide variety of means, an otherwise 
normal man or woman devotes him- or herself to the ideals of corruption and 
destruction that motivate all other servants of the Wyrm. 
It is a common misconception that Pentex, a corrupt organization wholly 
in thrall to the Wyrm, creates and directs all fomori. Not to understate matters, 
Pentex does indeed go to great lengths to recruit new fomori and keep them busy 
doing the company’s dirty work. Pentex scientists also keep themselves busy 
finding new ways to facilitate the creation offomori among the populace at large. 
However, the company did not create the process by which Bane spirits bond 
with human souls. All human beings have qualities attractive to the Wyrm’s evil 
Banes, be they weak spots in our moral fiber or antisocial tendencies we only 
barely manage to keep in check. Once a Bane detects the avenue through which 
it may exploit this potential in a prospective human host, it needs no coaching 
to travel that road on its own. 
TYPES 
O E  BANES 
These listed spirits are not the only ones that serve the Wyrm, but they are 
the spirits best able to possess humans. Most fomori are the product of joining 
one of the following Banes with a human subject. The possession is not 
instantaneous, however, so a Garou warrior with a mind to prevent the 
conjunction could travel into the Umbra to do battle with the spirit before the 
fomor is born. Keep in mind, though, that most fomori are not necessarily the 
product of joining these Banes with willing human subjects. A Bane with a 
powerful enough command of the Possession Charm can latch on to the soul of 
a victim regardless of the victim’s resistance. The fight for dominance may take 
some Banes longer than others, but enough struggle will overcome any obstacle 
BLOOD BANES 
Blood Banes are the farmers of the crop of filthy, festering cesspits that the 
modem age is heir to. These Banes frequent toxic dumps, blights and other 
equally repulsive sites in hopes of acquiring disease. They then seek out victims 
to infect with the diseases they pick up. When a Blood Bane has transferred a 
disease successfully- much as a bee would pollinate a flower - 
it feeds on both 
the disease and the concomitant suffering to which the disease gives birth. 
Rage 6, Gnosis 5, Willpower 6, Power 20 
Charms: Airt Sense, Possession 
These Banes are responsible for the existence of the Ferectoi breed offomor. 
The Banes appear from the Umbra to extract the semen or fertilized egg of a 
BREEDER 
BANES 


sleeping human victim. They then retreat back across the Gauntlet. Most 
Breeder Banes use the Charm: Breeding Trance to erase all memory of the rape 
from their victims’ minds. The Charm replaces the memory with one of a 
disturbingly violent erotic dream, provided it works. The most fortunate victims 
of these Banes suffer minor brain damage and lose all memory of the events that 
tookplace that night. The least fortunate victims remember both the dream and 
the nocturnal visitation itself. 
Rage 5, Gnosis 6, Willpower 5, Power 25 
Charms: Airt Sense, Breeding Trance, Materialize 
Lacking almost entirely in form, these Banes are difficult foes to overcome. 
Worse yet, they do not attack the body or corrupt the land. Instead, Howling 
Insanities lie in wait for prey, then shriek and howl mindlessly. The sounds buffet 
the minds of those who hear them, stripping the victims of their sanity. The 
Banes then feed on the madness they create. These Banes were among those who 
brought about the downfall of the White Howler tribe. 
Rage 7, Gnosis 6, Willpower 7, Power 20 
Charms: Airt Sense, Corruption, Possession 
Mind Feeders have existed as long as the human mind has existed, leading 
some to wonder if humanity somehow created them long ago. Further specula- 
tion suggests that these Banes’ manipulation gave rise to the first human 
psychics. Putting speculation aside, however, some facts about these three-eyed 
monstrosities cannot be ignored. For some reason, the Pentex Corporation has 
been enjoying greater cooperation with Mind Feeder Banes as part of a project 
to create anew, psychic breed of fomor. Tests have shown that these Banes bond 
best and become most powerful when they bond with human psychics. Other- 
wise, they bond with the most intelligent non-psychics they can find. 
H O W L I N C ~  
INSANITIES 
M I N D  FEEDERS 
Rage 4, Gnosis 5 ,  Willpower 8, Power 20 
Charms: Airt Sense, Corruption, Possession 
A single Bane creates a Scavenger Pack by possessing a host of small animals 
then seeking out a larger animal inside which to make a true home. The most 
common example of this phenomenon is that of a Bane possessing a horde of rats. 
The rats then seek out a dead or dying human body and force their way inside, 
hollowing out as much space for themselves as they can. The resultant bulging, 
shambling mass becomes a fomor known as a Hollow Man. 
While possessing the host of smaller animals, the Bane’s consciousness 
extends to all of the individual members while remaining anchored in only one. 
If that particular anchor animal is destroyed, the Bane is forced back into the 
Umbra where it must start its search anew. 
SCAVENC~BR 
PACK 
Rage 4, Gnosis 6, Willpower 4, Power 20 
Charms: Airt Sense, Healing, Materialize, Possession, Prolonged Dying 


TYPES 
O E  EOMORI 
BRAIN EATERS 
Despite the schlocky sound of their name, the Brain Eaters are some of the 
most subtle, insidious Fomori ever created. As part of a far-reaching initiative 
to corrupt those fortunate few humans born with psychic powers, a division of 
the Pentex corporation binds a Bane known as a Mind Feeder to the brain of a 
latent human psychic. The torture and anguish the psychic suffers as a result of 
the operation awakens his power, but at a terrible cost. While it makes the 
psychic more powerful than he would have become on his own, the Mind Feeder 
Bane creates in the new fomor the urge to consume living human brains. Should 
the psychic deny himself this urge for longer than a week, his powers atrophy, 
and his very body begins to wither and decay. The addiction is so strong, 
however, that most Brain Eaters indulge more than once a week after they have 
indulged the first time. 
In return for dining on this gruesome delicacy, the fomor develops the 
power to make people hallucinate, he no longer needs fear the Delirium, and he 
can read people’s minds with ease. Worse yet, the fomor retains any psychic 
powers he may have had before being bound to his Bane. To top off all else, the 
binding operation causes no noticeable physical change in the fomor, allowing 
him to blend in with the rest of human society without so much as a ripple. 
ENTICERS 
Enticers exist to bring out and exploit the worst, most base instinctual 
behavior in human beings. They live and breathe such raw, powerful sexual 
magnetism that only the most saintly and reserved victims can control 
themselves. (And even their resistance ultimately folds.) Regardless of sex or 
sexual orientation, once an Enticer spots a victim, the victim is doomed to the 
fomor’s depredations. 
Pentex uses Enticers as Judas goats or Jezebels, depending on the circum- 
stances. Many a valiant and driven werewolf has followed a stunning Enticer 
into a trap, never realizing his mistake until it was too late. Many a pack of young 
hotheads has been torn apart as its members fought tooth and claw for the 
“affections” of the same fomor. More often than not, an Enticer needs only 
whisper a few encouraging words in the right ears to accomplish its dire aims. 
Should physical confrontation be necessary, however, the Enticer’s only form of 
defense is a row of wickedly barbed fangs. 
Should a character ever manage to see through an Enticer’s seductive 
illusion, he might be surprised to see an entirely normal-looking person 
underneath. Enticer fomori are created by repeated exposure to a highly 
addictive chemical in a special brand of cosmetics distributed by a subsidiary of 
Pentex. The chemical creates an intense high in the wearer, while transforming 
the sweat glands in the wearer’s skin into high-output pheromone factories. 
These pheromones attract members of either sex equally (regardless of the sex 
of the person wearing the makeup) by dredging up the image of sexual perfection 
in the victim’s mind and lowering the victim’s inhibitions accordingly. 
Pentex keeps Enticer fomori compliant very simply by threatening to cut off 
the Enticer’s supply of its addictive makeup if the Enticer does not do as it is told. 
THE EOMOBI 
@ 


E E R E C T O I  
Born from the disgusting womb of a Breeder Bane, the Ferectoi consider 
themselves the larvae of the Wyrm on Earth. They look human and act human 
and have human motivations. To the casual observer, each appears entirely 
human (if a particularly vital and ruthless human). Even the Ferectoi’s formi+ 
dable powers remain concealed when they’re not in use. However, these fomori’s 
resemblance to humanity stops at the surface. Deep down, the Ferectoi are 
Wyrmcreatures through and through. While some might struggle with their true 
nature, that nature always wins out eventually. 
In the mean time, the Ferectoi enjoy all the pleasures of power and luxury 
life on Earth offers. Banes and lesser Wyrm beings serve them, as do the 
unwitting humans the Ferectoi dominates in his human semblance. 
EOMORI EAMILIBS 
Sometimes, groups of Banes choose the path of least resistance in bonding 
with human hosts. These Banes congregate around blights or Hellholes in 
remote backwoods areas and infest the sequestered, inbred families that some- 
times also congregate in such isolated areas. Once they have become fomori 
themselves, the older members of these families do most of the work for these 
Banes thereafter. When their offspring grow old enough, the parents take them 
to the site where the Banes wait and perform a twisted bastardization of the Rite 
of Passage. This rite makes the young adult part of the family “right and proper,” 
ending the hellish existence the child has likely endured thus far. The child then 
receives his first taste of the special Charm (and Taint) that runs in the family, 
otherwise known as the “family gift.” 
ERBAKEEBT 
These beasts are almost comically monstrous. They scuttle along on long, 
muscular arms and stunted legs. Their fingers and prehensile toes stretch out of 
proportion to their limbs. Their luminescent, unblinking eyes bulge grotesquely 
from the sockets. Liver spots stipple their slimy skin, and they communicate in 
porcine snorts and clicks. Morbidly obese “queen” Freakfeet lounge about laying 
eggs and being served by the more able males of the species. 
Oddly enough, not even the Pentex Corporation appreciates the existence 
of these disgusting beasts. Originally created by joining a Sludge Elemental 
(known as a H’ruggling Bane) with a human-amphibian genetic hybrid, the first 
generation of Freakfeet escaped from Pentex’s service after an explosion at the 
lab that created them. When given the opportunity, Pentex field operatives 
“sanitize” Freakfeet hives where they find them. Unfortunately, however, 
Freakfeet were designed to be prolific in any climactic conditions. The creatures 
maintain subterranean hives all over the world, regardless of Pentex’s every 
effort to cull the expanding population. 
Despite the human DNA that led to their creation, Freakfeet young do not 
gestate within a Freakfeet queen. Rather, the queen injects her fertilized eggs 
into the body of a living human being with a sharp stinger/ ovipositor at the base 
of her spine. Freakfeet males gather human hosts by venturing up through sewer 
pipes in urban areas and abducting them. They use the Rat Head power to make 
the journey up out of the sewer - 
often emerging through toilet bowls in their 


victims’ homes - 
and they use the Maleate power on the victims in order to 
reverse the journey with their prize. More often than not, a human will die as a 
result of the Freakfeet birthing process. Those hardy few who survive remain in 
the hive as “breeders” until they either expire or are traded to another hive. 
 OREH HOUNDS 
While it can be argued that some fomori resist the changes that overtake 
them and make them less than human, no such case can be made for the 
Gorehounds. Gorehounds revel in what they become, living up to whatever 
ghastly potential they possess. The transformation into a Gorehound usually 
marks the human’s achievement of a lifelong goal. 
Deranged loners brimming with repressed rage and sadistic fantasies make 
the best prospective Gorehounds. To capitalize on this fresh pool of potential 
fomori, the Pentex Corporation distributes Bane-possessed slasher videotapes 
through a shell company called Slaughterhouse Video. Merely watching the 
tapes opens the viewer to possession by the Bane. Once in place, the Bane helps 
reduce the viewer’s inhibitions, opening the floodgates on the barely contained 
sadism. Inspired by the “heroes” of the slasher tapes he watcher, the young 
Gorehound sets out to stake his own claim on trademarked over-the-top 
violence. The serial torture and murder of which Gorehounds are capable and 
all too happy to indulge in knows no bounds. A new Gorehound might begin his 
career on a small scale (say by mutilating household animals in his neighbor- 
hood), but his ambition to indulge in more sensational violence grows as his 
confidence grows. 
Should a Gorehound ever be caught or confronted, he will fight to escape 
for as long as he can move, causing as much crippling pain and destruction as he 
can. While unreliable as operatives or employees of Pentex, Gorehounds do the 
work of the Wyrm with admirable zeal, and they provide an excellent distraction 
or scapegoat for actors undertaking more important Pentex initiatives. 
HOLLOW 
MEN 
Although no one is entirely certain of where the Hollow Men came from, 
most speakers who have a reputable opinion on the subject agree that no other 
breed of fomor has existed longer onEarth. These horrifying monsters have done 
much to bring about the destruction and ultimate corruption of Gaia. 
From the outside (and adistance), Hollow Men appear human, if somewhat 
distracted and fidgety. Closer examination, however, reveals more hints to the 
true nature of just what a Hollow Man is. A Hollow Man’s skin bulges and ripples 
when he moves. His joints bend stiffly or with a too-fluid grace. His chest fails 
to rise and fall with the rhythm of respiration. Occasionally, a particularly alert 
viewer might even see a dark shape scuttling across the Hollow Man’s skin, 
climbing out of one orifice to disappear into another. The Hollow Men appear 
thus because the bodies they wear on the outside are little more than convenient 
homes for a horde of smaller animals possessed by a Scavenger Pack Bane. The 
spirit of the human shell remains intact enough to bond with the Bane, granting 
the pitiful human a grotesque type of immortality in return for taking the 
Scavenger Pack into his body and carrying out the urges of the Wyrm. 
The types of animals most likely to make up a Scavenger Pack include rats, 
snakes, bees, roaches and the larger species of spiders. 
T 
H E  EOMORI 
@ 


I 
a lithe, sinewy frame with skin somewhat darker than their racial average. Yet, 
what sets them apart from normal people most distinctly is the jet-black sheen 
of their eyes. Very few individuals outside the Pentex corporate structure have 
seen the eyes of a Shadowfiend and lived to describe them, however. 
CRBATINC~ 
EOMORI CHARACTERS 
Creating a fomor character proceeds initially just as does the creation of a 
human in Laws of the Hunt. Assign the character a Nature and Demeanor, as 
well as a motivation. Give the character six, four and three Attribute Traits in 
the primary, secondary and tertiary Attribute categories as you see fit. Assign 
whatever negative Traits go along with the concept as well. Finally, add in the 
character’s Willpower, Backgrounds, Merits and Flaws. Don’t bother tracking 
the Humanity Trait, however. The slow descent from full humanity to utter 
corruption by the Wyrm is better represented through roleplaying than random 
marks on a character sheet. 
After creating a human character, pick from the preceding selection a breed 
of fomor that such a character would most likely become. Reflect the change and 
the reason why your character is most suited to that breed in your write-up of the 
character’s history. (Unless, of course, you’re playing a Freakfeet fomor, in which 
case your character history pretty much writes itself.) 
When you’ve come this far, assign the character Powers andTaints. You are 
not limited in the selection of your character’s Powers, but keep in mind that 
some Powers are more appropriate to some breeds than others. Remember also 
that Powers do not come at all cheap. You cannot spend Freebie Traits on 
Powers, you cannot spend the Traits derived from Flaws on Powers, and you 
cannot spend the Traits derived from Negative Traits on Powers. The only 
Traits you can spend on Powers are those you receive from taking Taints. 
Luckily, though, you can spend the points you receive from Taints on Traits 
other than Powers. 
For instance, you can assign your character seven Traits worth of Taints 
then take seven Traits worth of Powers. If you don’t want seven Traits worth of 


Powers, you could take four Traits worth of Powers and spend the remaining 
Traits just as you would spend Traits derived from Flaws or Negative Traits. 
U S I N ~ T H E  
EOMORI I N A  CHRONICLE 
Potential players of fomor characters, be prepared to hear this response to 
your initial request: “You want to play a what! ?” Fomori are not pretty, they’re 
not heroic, and they certainly aren’t going to come out victorious in the end. 
Even when the fomori are the good guys in a chronicle, they’re still bad guys. 
They exist by only either the grace of the Wyrm or thanks to the genius of Pentex 
scientists. Should the fomor ever step out of line and try to do the right thing, 
one or the other will assuredly make him pay. Fomori, as characters, have little 
to no redeeming value whatsoever. How then can you possibly hope to use such 
a character in an ongoing chronicle? 
On one hand, the easy answer to this question is to use fomori as Pentex and 
the Wyrm intend: as the bad guys. Fomori make excellent villains, shock troops 
and Wyrm-beast mooks. No better evidence of the Corrupter’s presence on 
Earth than the existence of these monsters. Roleplaying a fomor offers a player 
the chance to explore the deepest, most vile depths to which his imagination can 
sink then put that nastiness aside when the character meets his inevitable end. 
Letting your character give in wholly to his evil nature (for the sake of plot) is 
one of the most cathartic experiences roleplaying has to offer. At the same time, 
the character’s story demonstrates the price of power and the importance of 
keeping your darker urges tightly in check. 
By the same token, it’s just fun to play the bad guy sometimes. If you’re 
enjoying yourself by playing a right bastard, the other players should have just 
as much fun trying to put a stop to your nefarious schemes. Nothing is more fun 
than overcoming an unrepentantly evil opponent, especially if that opponent 
is one’s equal in all but motivation. Playing the villain everyone loves to hate 
is an awful lot of fun, even when the good guys finally manage to pull together 
and conquer you once and for all. 
On the other hand, one can tell a compelling story in which the fomori 
characters are the protagonists. This type of story, however, is not nearly as much 
funas the preceding one. Fomor-centered stories are some of the most horrifying 
and tragic tales one can find in the World of Darkness. Consider the life-cycle 
of the standard fomor: A bleak, depressing or violent life leaves gaps in the soul 
of the potential victim. A spirit of corruption finds (or is directed to) those gaps, 
and it begins to attach itself to them. The hapless individual feels this intrusion, 
but he is powerless to prevent it. After all, some part of him wants the spirit to 
fill the void within him. When the fusion is complete, the victim’s body warps 
and mutates to match the changes that go on in his mind. After the transforma- 
tion (or before, in many cases), a corporation driven by a force more sinister than 
greed tries in every way to exploit the new monster in any way it can. Finally, 
often before the poor, pitiful wretch can come to grips with the horrifying 
changes that have been so rudely thrust upon him, he runs afoulof vicious zealots 
who want to tear him apart with tooth and claw for no better reason than the 
fact that he even exists. 


new state, all while trying to hold tightly to what made them human in the first 
- -  
of halves as a multiplication of wholes. 
The following list is not all-inclusive, but it does cover the basic range 
available to the fomor breeds listed. Storvtellers and Dlavers are encouraged to 
Berserker (variable) 
The fomor begins play with Rage Traits equal to the cost of the Power at 
character creation. He may use these Traits just Garou use their Rage, but the 
player may not buy more Rage Traits after character creation. The fomor regains 
spent Rage the first time he is wounded in a game session, at the beginning of 
any new conflict or when he’s particularly humiliated. 
Brain Eating (6 Traits) 
A character using this Power robs his victim of Mental Traits and adds 
those Traits to his own Mental Traits. The fomor’s player steals one Mental 
Trait from the victim per Willpower Test he wins. The transfer affects the 
characters’ effective maximum number of Mental Traits for the rest of the 
game session. Should either player spend a Willpower Trait to refresh his 
character’s Mental Traits during that game session, the expenditure refreshes 
the newly adjusted number of Traits. The stolen Traits return at the beginning 
of the next game session. 
This attack does not constitute a physical assault, but the victim will know 
who is using the power. Should the fomor actually eat the victim’s physical brain 
after the victim has died, he adds the victim’s Mental Traits and Willpower 
Traits to his own for the remainder of the session. 
Chameleon Coloration (four Traits) 
When the player spends Mental Traits, the character’s skin changes color 
to blend in with his surroundings. The nature of the change causes the Mental 
Claws, Fangs or Horns (three, five or seven Traits) 
An unnatural adaptation (be it cybernetic, organic or a mixture of the two) 
makes the fomor’s attacks all the more vicious. Although these adaptations can 
be disguised or retracted, they cannot be removed without causing serious 
physical pain. In combat, claws, fangs and horns add an extra level of lethal 
damage to the fomor’s attacks. The base Trait cost purchases one adaptation; the 
secondary cost provides two. The full seven-Trait cost adds all three bodily 


Colony Powers (variable) 
Particular to the Hollow Men, Colony Powers bestow an ability to the fomor 
that is usually attributed to the animal that makes up its Scavenger Pack. A 
Hollow Man full of spiders might be able to scale sheer walls or infect his victims 
with a deadly venom. Being inhabited by a Scavenger Pack of rats might grant 
the fomor the Rat Head Power. The Storyteller should assess the advantage the 
Colony Powers grant the character and price them accordingly. 
Corrupted Visions (four Traits) 
When the player spends a Mental Trait and wins a Mental Test against his 
opponent, the fomor causes his victim to suffer from compelling hallucinations. 
Fomori use this Power to prod victims into action or to drive them over the edge 
into insanity. The victim’s player may banish these hallucinations by spending 
a Willpower Trait. 
Darksight (two Traits) 
The fomor can see in perfect darkness, and the player suffers no Trait 
penalties for impaired visibility. This power represents chiropteran sonar, feline 
low-light vision or a heightened sensitivity to disturbances in the air, as is 
appropriate to the character. Should the character’s compensatory sense be 
overloaded suddenly by sensation, however, he is completely stunned for one 
turn, and he suffers the Negative Trait Oblivious x 2 for the entirety of the scene 
after which the character recovers from the onslaught. He also loses the 
Darksight advantage for the rest of the scene. 
Dispersion (four Traits) 
As another Power specific to the Hollow Men, Dispersion is a fantastic 
defense mechanism. By spending a Trait of Willpower, the fomor’s player can 
force the entire Scavenger Pack to evacuate its hollow human shell at once. The 
empty human body collapses and remains inert, but the fomor’s entire con- 
sciousness extends to each member of the Scavenger Pack. Should the animal 
central to the Pack be killed, the fomor dies. When a Hollow Man is beaten to 
the Incapacitated health level, this Power activates automatically. 
Enhancement (three Traits) 
By winning a Social Challenge against the player of her intended victim, 
the player of a fomor can cause herself to appear to be her victim’s ideal physical 
mate, regardless of the fomor’s actual appearance. Should the fomor’s player lose 
the test, the fomor still seems attractive, if only slightly above average. 
Foot Pads (one Trait) 
Spongy pads on the bottom of the fomor’s feet muffle the sound of his 
footsteps to such a degree that only supernatural perception can detect the sound. 
Garou Gifts (variable) 
The fomor’s player may purchase and use Garou Gifts for one Trait times 
Immunity to the Delirium (one Trait) 
Having become monsters themselves, the sight of a werewolf in its Crinos form 
the Gift’s level plus one. 
does not trigger the instinctual fear response to which normal humans are heir. 


Malleate (six Traits) 
By piercing the hide of her opponent, a fomor injects a powerful venom 
under the skin that changes the victim’s body into a putty-like mass. The fomor 
may then warp and shape that mass as she sees fit. Using this power requires the 
fomor’s player to win a Physical Challenge to make the first contact and 
successive Physical Challenges to make the desired changes. The effects of this 
Power are permanent unless the victim uses the Gifts: Resist Toxin, Doppelganger 
or Adaptation. A Garou can also purge the venom from the body of a victim with 
a successful Rite of Cleansing. When the venom is gone, the victim’s body 
returns to normal. 
Changes made to one’s body by this Power cause health levels of aggravated 
damage. The severity of this damage is up to Storyteller discretion and the 
magnitude of the change. 
Mind Rape (six Traits) 
If a fomor’s player spends a Willpower Trait and wins a Mental Challenge, 
his character can invade the mind of a victim and pull out even well hidden 
secret thoughts. That is to say, after a successful challenge, the user of this Power 
can demand from the victim a complete and honest answer to one question. The 
player of the victim must give as thorough an answer as possible, even if his 
character has blocked the information out subconsciously. This Power cannot 
detect uses of other supernatural mind-altering powers, nor can it retrieve 
information that another supernatural power has erased. Use of this Power is in 
no way subtle, as far as the victim is concerned. 
Prolonged Life (four Traits) 
The Bane fused to the human’s soul extends his life span far beyond that of 
any mere mortal. Any fomor with this Power, however, must take the Addiction 
Taint. The fomor will not die of old age as long as he engages regularly in his 
addiction. This Power, however, will not protect the fomor from the external 
rigors of its existence. 
Rat Head (four Traits) 
By spending a Physical Trait, the player allows his character to wriggle 
through a space roughly one-twentieth of his size. For example, a fomor of 
average human size could squeeze underneath a closed door or escape danger 
through the drain in a sink. 
Regeneration (five Traits) 
The fomor with this power recovers from non-aggravated damage at the 
same accelerated rate werewolves do. 
Scent of the Wyld or Weaver (five Traits) 
The fomor’s player spends a Mental Trait in order to mask his character’s 
obvious Wymvtaint. Characters who use the Gift: Sense Wyrm on a fomor using 
this Power fail automatically, gaining a strong sense that the fomor is actually 
acreature of the Wyld or Weaver. However, neither Red Talons nor Glasswalkers 
are fooled by this Power. 
Slobber Snot (three Traits) 
Oozing warts cover the fomor’s skin, exuding a slick coat of foul-smelling 
slime. This slime grant’s the fomor’s player a free retest in all Physical Challenges 


in which he is trying to break free of an opponent’s grasp. This slime also makes 
it particularly easy for a fomor to escape from ropes, handcuffs or tightly confined 
spaces, The slime’s distinctive and powerful stench puts the fomor’s player one 
Trait down in all challenges related to stealth. 
Spirit Ties (variable) 
The fomor may draw upon a well of Gnosis, which he can use just as the 
Garou can. The player receives one Gnosis Trait per Trait he spends into the 
Power at character creation. He cannot increase this Trait thereafter. The fomor 
regains spent Gnosis Traits by meditating (see Laws of the Wild), destroying 
fetishes or slaughtering Umbral spirits. 
TAINTS 
The Taints listed here serve as guidelines for building fomor characters. 
Players should work out the specifics of each Taint with their Storytellers with 
an eye toward their games’ particular balance and the dramatic needs of their 
stories. 
Addiction (variable) 
The fomor must engage in some activity on a regular schedule, lest 
withdrawal and distraction overwhelm him. The frequency with which the 
fomor must indulge his taste varies from once per month to once per hour. The 
substance or action to which he is addicted also varies. The player may even 
designate the use of one of his character’s Powers - 
such as Brain Eating - 
as 
the activity to which the character is addicted. Should the character deny his 
addiction, he loses a health level, and the player is one Trait down in all 
challenges per period that the character has abstained. 
Brainwashed (three Traits) 
As a result of intensive psychological treatment or skillful emotional 
manipulation, your character has adopted with fanatical zeal a belief that was 
not originally her own. She will not question this belief, and she reacts violently 
to those who question its validity. In her opinion, the naysayersagainst her belief 
are obviously vicious malcontents bent on destroying all she holds dear, no 
matter how ridiculous the idea with which she has been brainwashed is. Not 
even blatant, incontrovertible evidence of malfeasance can shake the faith with 
which she’s been indoctrinated. The player of a brainwashed fomor is down two 
Traits in any confrontation against an acknowledged representative of her 
character’s faith. 
The Crusties (three Traits) 
Fomor with the Power: Slobber Snot are the most common victims of this 
Taint. Once a month, for a period of approximately a week, the coating of mucus 
and oil on the fomor’s skin dries out and flakes off in itchy, irritating patches. 
During the period of this affliction, a fomor is one Trait down on all challenges 
due to the constant distraction. On the plus side, the Slobber Snot Power still 
functions optimally during this period. However, instead of the low-viscosity 
slime protecting the fomor’s skin, the flakes themselves provide the benefit by 
tearing away more easily. 


Derangement (three Traits) 
Fomor are not the most stable individuals to begin with, but your character 
has gone further around the bend than most. The Bane that possesses your fomor 
has discovered a particularly prickly spot in your character’s psyche, and it 
exploits that sensitive spot in any way it can. This mental malady is now the core 
of your character’s every motivation. 
Check a psychology textbook for the symptoms of some common mental 
illnesses and roleplay them in everything your character does. You may not 
spend Willpower Traits to overcome the drives of your character’s derangement. 
Physical Wasting (six Traits) 
One of your character’s Powers takes a physical toll on your character’s 
body. Whenever the character uses that Power in a scene, he loses one Physical 
Trait for the scene. Each subsequent scene in which the character uses the Power 
in question robs the character of another Physical Trait unless he has rested 
sufficiently between uses. Wasted Traits return at the rate of one Trait per hour 
after the scene in which they are used. 
Rotting (six Traits) 
The fomor’s body is falling apart. The character loses one health level per 
month as his body withers and decays. The fomor’s player may make a Static Test 
to hold off the loss of the health level at the beginning of each month, but he 
must win the test. Players who test successfully to attack a character with this 
Taint may immediately make a second Static Test. If the attacking player wins 
the additional test, his character’s attack inflicts an additional health level of 
normal damage. 
Walking Bomb (five Traits) 
Agents of the Pentex Corporation have implanted an explosive charge in 
the base of your character’s skull to secure his future cooperation. The bomb can 
be set to detonate under avariety of conditions (a remote switch, a heart monitor 
implanted in the Pentex agent himself, a proximity sensor or a simple count- 
down timer), but only a qualified Pentex explosives expert can deactivate it. 
Neither blunt trauma nor even a direct hit from a .357 slug will cause the bomb 
to go off, but the fomor’s employer can detonate the device at whim. The charge 
is shaped so that the explosion will blow the fomor’s head clean off with as little 
collateral damage as possible. 
Variants of this device flood the fomor’s system with a deadly venom, 
deliver a debilitating electric shock, release a highly caustic acid or pump ultra- 
concentrated depressants into the fomor’s bloodstream. 


WRAITH MFRITS AND ELAWS 
FOR oblivion 
by Jess Heinig 
The dead have plenty to worry about. It’s tough enough just hanging on after dying. Since 
every wraith is an individual, complete with carefully plotted goals and driving Passions, it 
only makes sense that their foibles, problems and advantages be similarly unique. 
Each wraith character has a personal set of Attributes, Abilities, Arcanoi, Passions and 
Fetters. Some, though, have their own spins on such things, or peculiarities that aren’t 
common to other wraiths. Thus, we give you Merits and Flaws for Oblivion characters. 
Remember: A modifier to bidding affects the number of Traits required to enter a 
challenge. A one-Trait bid penalty means that you must bid an extra Trait on a challenge. 
A modifier to resolution affects total Traits for resolving ties and overbids. 
CORPOREAL 
MERITSAND 
ELAWS 
BOTCHED 
MOLIITION( 1-3 TRAIT 
TE LAW) 
Something went horribly, horribly wrong during a Moliate attempt, and your character’s 
Corpus has resisted attempts to change it back. This deformity gives him problems, and it’s 
not going to go away soon. Perhaps some guilty, dark part of your character’s psyche believes 
that he really deserves to reflect the deformity, or maybe he’s just an unlucky punk who’s 
stuck with an extra tentacle for the rest of his existence. 
For one Trait, your character has a relatively minor and annoying moliation “scar.” 
Perhaps he has an ugly-looking hunch, a discoloration or some other noticeable incongru- 
ity. This incongruity makes him easily recognizable unless he takes steps to cover it, and it’s 
in an inconvenient place where it’ll take some work to conceal it. A funny color under one’s 
arm doesn’t count. A hand that’s been moliated into a gnarled, inflexible lump is a much 
more reasonable expression of this Flaw. 
For two Traits, the moliation problem is fairly nasty. Maybe your character has a 
withered arm, or his skin is scaly in patches due to a failed attempt at creating armor. When 
the botched moliation isn’t concealed, the character suffers an extra negative Social Trait 
of Repugnant, for which you gain no extra Traits. Your character might be able to conceal 
this problem, but it takes some real effort. 
For three Traits, some terrible mistake inconveniences your character horribly. Not only 
do you suffer a Negative Social Trait of Repugnant, but you also suffer a one-Trait penalty to 
all challenges where the specific moliation might hinder the character. For instance, if your 
character’s legs are fused together above the knees, he will have trouble running or balancing. 
If his head is sunk into the center of his torso, he’ll have difficulty seeing peripherally or 
speaking to people. These botches are generally too extreme to conceal. 
The victim of a botched moliation may be able to repair the damage eventually (with 
a good use of Moliate and the expenditure of experience Traits equal to twice the Flaw’s 
value), but it’s sure to be an annoyance for quite a while. You must wear a tag in a 
conspicuous location, which explains the nature of the deformity. If another wraith uses 
Moliate to correct this deformitv, his player must spend one extra Pathos Trait beyond the 
art’s standard cost per turn he‘wishds the moliaied change to last. At the end of those 


Some feature (such as blue hair, a prominent tattoo carried over from life or eyes of 
different colors) really stands out about your character. Unlike having a botched moliation, 
this feature is not necessarily repulsive or problematic, but it’s also not something that a 
character could hope to change permanently, either. Indicate this feature by wearing make- 
up to simulate it (or by wearing a prominent card that describes it). The Moliate Arcanos 
could cover it up temporarily, of course. After the moliation, the character’s appearance 
reverts to normal at the end of a scene. 
ROTTING (a TRAIT  LAW) 
I 
Organic matter in the land of the living decays and rots away eventually, and that fact 
haunts your character’s mind. In fact, it’s so closely tied to her conception of death that her 
very self-image as a dead thing is corrupted by rot. Chunks of her body are rotted away, and 
tatters of flesh hang over corded muscle. Naturally, this psychonecrosis doesn’t necessarily 
hinder or damage the Corpus itself, but it’s definitely unpleasant and unsightly. You suffer 
an automatic one-Trait penalty to Social Challenge resolution. When interacting with 
mortals, they react to the Fog (Oblivion, p. 234) much more strongly. If the player of the 
mortal wins his Static Mental Challenge against 20 Traits, the Storyteller or Narrator 
representing the Fog gets an automatic retest. 
F R A ~ I L E  conpus (3 TRAIT fiLAW) 
The strands of will that hold your character’s plasm together just aren’t as strong as 
those of many other wraiths. When he become insubstantial due to physical damage, he 
loses two levels of Corpus instead of just one. If he ever suffers four or more levels of damage 
in a single blow, you must win or tie a Simple Test, lest the character collapse immediately 
into a Harrowing. 
A M B I D C K T R ~ U S  ( I TRAIT MERIT) 
Most people are good with just one hand or the other, but your character is equally good 
with both. You suffer no Trait penalty for using either hand since your character IS equally 
good with his right or left (or Moliated tentacle or whatever). Of course, you still suffer a 
one-Trait coordination penalty if your character uses both hands at once, but you incur no 
additional penalty for using an uncoordinated hand. 
Interestingly, many wraiths seem to slide toward ambidexterity over time. As a wraith‘s 
selfdimage changes, his sense of handedness may well erode. 
~
u
i
i
o
p
 
~ I p e ( 1 - 4  TRAIT MERIT) 
While most wraiths are sad, pallid things, your character’s Corpus is so strong that it 
practically glows with vibrancy. The character seems more “solid” than most plasm, and it’s 
harder to discorporate her. For each Trait that you spend on this Merit, your character starts 
with one extra level of permanent Corpus. While above 10 Corpus, though, she is 
extraordinarily conspicuous to other entities in the lands of the dead. 
MALLCABLE 
(a TRAIT 
MERIT) 
Like the semi-liquid plasm from which it’s formed, your character’s Corpus flows into 
new shapes easily. Anyone using the Moliate Arcanos upon her (including herself) receives 
a two-Trait resolution bonus. 
DISEMBODIED (6 TRAIT MERIT) 
Most wraiths form a corporeal shell that resembles an idealized version of their living 
form. Your character, however, has discarded the entire notion of flesh. He has no Corpus 
or body at all; he’s just a floating voice, a collection of memories and thoughts. 


anything, nor can he interact with anyone physically. He has no Physical Traits at all. He 
can’t even use Arcanoi that would interact with physical material, including Embody, 
Inhabit, Moliate, Outrage and Pandemonium. (Similar restrictions might apply to certain Jade 
Kingdom Arcanoi, too.) 
On the upside, your character is pretty much immune to physical trauma. He simply 
can’t be hurt that way. Nobody can make Physical Challenges against you; weapons can’t 
hurt your character because he’s not there. Arcanoi and other powers that require touch or 
contact with some part of the body fail because he have no body to touch. Ifsome power that 
your character has would require you to make a Physical Challenge, just use a Mental 
Challenge instead. Your character has no Corpus rating, so he obviously can’t be sent into 
a normal Destruction Harrowing. Should he fall into a Harrowing by running out of 
Willpower (or, perhaps, by falling into a Harrowing with another wraith), you risk 
permanent Willpower instead. If he ever runs out of permanent Willpower Traits, he 
disappears into Oblivion. 
You should wear a tag to indicate your character’s discorporate status. It helps if you wear 
a shroud or the like as well, so that you have no distinguishing features. Remember, though, 
that your character cannot pick up, push or touch anything on either side of the Shroud. 
MENTAL 
MERITSAND 
ELAWS 
A ~ ~ I C T I O N ( I - B  TRAIT ~ ~ a w )  
Just as wraiths cling tenuously to the remnants of existence through force of will and 
memory, they sometimes fall victim to dangerous and compelling psychological drives. Your 
character is attached to some activity or substance in such a fashion. If he is denied access 
to the subject of his addiction, you lose a number of Traits equal to the value of this Flaw 
in all test-resolutions. The source of this addiction may even be harmful in some way, but 
the character is miserable without it. He will go to any lengths he can to fulfill this addiction 
(including Skinriding or possessing humans who indulge in it). 
C O M P U L S I O N  ( I TRAIT #LAW) 
Your character is compelled to perform some sort of noticeable, curious or harmful 
action. It may be a constant urge or just one that strikes at inconvenient times. Perhaps he 
can never seem to shut up, or maybe he twitches spasmodically for several seconds any time 
someone mentions the Hierarchy. Maybe he hoards every scrap of relic detritus he comes 
across, no matter how useless the junk seems at the time. You must roleplay the effects of 
the compulsion. You can spend a Willpower Trait to suppress the urge; if you fail to roleplay 
the compulsion, a Narrator may rule that you have spent such a Trait already. 
D A R K  
SFCRET(I 
TRAIT LAW) 
Your character keeps skeletons in the closet.. . possibly literally. Some dirty deed in her 
past haunts her. Although it’s not widely known, if knowledge of the misdeed were to get out, 
it would cause serious inconvenience. Perhaps she was Reaped by a Mnemos, or maybe she 
opened the gates to a Citadel for the Spectres. Worse still, situations seem to come up from 
time to time where her dark secret might get out. She may have to make difficult or 
embarrassing compromises to keep the truth under wraps. The Storyteller determines when 
and how the secret comes up in play. Should it ever be exposed, your character is likely to suffer 
the social consequences. Gaining an enemy or losing status are just two of the possibilities. 
B C H O E S O P T H E  p A S T ( 1 - 3  T R A I T  ELAW) 
Whether consciously or not, your character can’t leave the living world behind. Some 
trapping associated with him in life continues to bleed into the living lands even after his 


death. Some characteristic or trait associated with the character during his mortal days 
continues to manifest wherever he goes, even in a fashion noticeable to the living. These 
manifestations are uncontrollable, and they don’t relate directly to your character’s actions. 
Rather, they just “happen” in the material world when he’s around. 
For one Trait, the character causes a specific, peculiar scent in the world of the living. 
People might catch a whiff of a perfume that she used to wear or smell the cordite from the 
gun involved in her death. This scent is noticeable to anyone who searches for it specifically. 
Someone who has a vague idea that something is wrong - 
perhaps because of a subtle use 
of Arcanoi in the area-can 
make a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of six Traits), with 
success indicating that he notices the scent and recognizes it. 
For two Traits, your character’s presence causes sounds in the physical realm. People 
might hear ghostly footsteps, catch the hint of rattling chains or notice a distant laugh. 
People in the immediate area will almost certainly hear some manifestation, although the 
sounds are not constant, and someone who just brushes by may not be present for an echo. 
(Use a StaticMentalChallenge atadifficultyofsixTraitsfromsomeonenearyou ifhe might 
hear an unexpected echo.) People near your location - 
just outside the room, for instance 
- 
might hear an echo if one occurs. A Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of eight Traits) 
is appropriate, although someone who’s listening specifically for such things would notice 
the effect. 
For three Traits, your wraith actually causes some sort of visual manifestation. Perhaps 
people see dancing candle flames when she’s around or a hazy blob of light or a hallucinatory, 
translucent image of something important to your character in life. People in the room with 
you will almost certainly notice and be startled by such manifestations. Individuals within 
a reasonable distance will notice such things if they succeed on a Static Mental Challenge 
with a difficulty of six Traits. 
You can take this Flaw multiple times to generate multiple Effects. For six Traits, your 
character creates a hazy image accompanied by strange sounds and smells. 
o ~ & R C O N ~ ~ I D F N T (  
I TRAIT BLAW) 
Your character believes in a rather exaggerated impression of his actual capabilities. 
While most people have enough sense not to get in over their heads, he honestly believes 
that he’s better than he really is, and he lets that belief get him into trouble. During 
situations in which he’s under duress or threat, your character is likely to forge ahead 
heedless of the consequences and convinced of victory. 
Some overpowering fear seizes your character in the presence of a specific object or 
situation. This fear may be tied to circumstances of her death - 
a fear of large bodies of 
water, for a drowning victim - 
or it may come from some hidden impulse that predates her 
demise. When the character encounters the object ofher fear, you must expend a Willpower 
Trait or retreat in terror. If unable to escape, fear makes the character shaky and uncertain. 
You are two Traits down on all challenges in such a situation. 
~ o N n u s F D  
(a TRAIT ILAW) 
The world is a disjointed place. Everything is disturbed, noisy and grating. Maybe 
your mind was unhinged during death, or perhaps you can’t seem to filter out all the 
background chaos of the Underworld. You are always a bit distracted and disoriented, but 
when you are subjected to intense stimuli, such as a sudden whipping of a Maelstrom, a 
barrage of conversation from multiple people or a loud and chaotic situation, your mind 
simply can’t make sense of it all. Under such stress you must spend a Willpower Trait to 
overcome your problems for the scene, or else you just curl up, helplessly unable to cope 
with your surroundings. 


Well, your character’s already died, so it’s not like curiosity can kill him, right? He just 
tends to stick his nose into anything and everything. When presented with an innocuous 
little mystery - 
a locked container, a secret room, a mysterious library or the like - 
you 
must win a Simple Test, lest your character mosey on into trouble. 
~ B s c s s I o N  
(a TRAIT PLAW) 
A driving fixation permeates your character’s every thought and drives him to 
unhealthy extremes in pursuit of his fascination. Often, he finds himself in difficult straits 
because of the obsession. Perhaps he would spend his last obolus for some relic of a sort that 
he collects obsessively, or maybe he hangs out around some Skinlands area that’s dangerous 
to him. Only by spending a Willpower Trait can you overcome your character’s obsession 
for a short time. 
Storytellers should make sure that obsessions do not tie into strong Passions. A 
disadvantage that isn’t a disadvantage isn’t really worth much, after all. 
V C N q ’ E A N C E  (a T R A I T  PLAW) 
A certain score must be settled, whether it’s against some still-living foes or against an 
already-dead one, and your character intends to see justice done. Heck, maybe your 
character intends to kill her enemy then send him screaming to Oblivion. In short, someone 
did your wraith wrong, and now she’s driven in the pursuit of a vendetta. You must spend 
a Willpower Trait if your character has anopportunity to pursue her vengeance but you want 
to avoid doing so-for 
instance, to avoid screaming and charging into the Labyrinth to get 
the Spectre that Harrowed your daughter’s ghost. 
Again, Storytellers should make sure that the Vengeance Flaw does not tie into any 
Passions.Thewraithdoesnotdrawstrengthfrom 
hervengeance; she just hasanunrelenting 
need to get even. 
D R I V I N ~  9 0 a L ( 3  TRAIT PLAW) 
Some overreaching goal pushes your character on, even past the strength of will that 
it took to cheat death. He’ll never achieve this goal completely, but he keeps trying. This 
goal is limitless in depth, yet your character feels compelled to strive toward it constantly. 
Examples of such goals include proving to the living world that ghosts really do exist, tearing 
down the Hierarchy entirely and making an all-inclusive map of all of the Far Shores. You 
don’t gain any bonus Traits when pursuing your character’s driving goal, but you must spend 
a Willpower Trait to avoid pursuing it. The goal directs and focuses all of your character’s 
actions. 
Like other similar Flaws, Driving Goal cannot tie to a wraith‘s Passions. 
P L A S H B A C K S  (3 T R A I T  PLAW) 
When your character is under stress, he flashes back to some similar horrible situation 
in his past. Perhaps he has memories of his time as a soldier, and he suffers post-traumatic 
stress syndrome. Maybe he relives horrible memories of a torturous adolescence. It’s entirely 
possible that he relives the events of his most recent Harrowing time and again. While the 
wraith suffers these flashbacks, he’s off in his own little world. He can’t hear or interact with 
the people and circumstances around him. He might sometimes incorporate a person or 
action into the nightmare fantasy, but it’s always in the fashion of what he hallucinates, 
which means that he’s functionally useless for at least a full turn. 


Your character has a deep and abiding respect for life. Perhaps she was always this 
compassionate, or maybe she got that way after she lost her own. Either way, she is loath to 
use violence or to inflict harm on others. She’ll never endanger people or other wraiths 
willingly, nor will she actively harm another person. These objections aren’t nearly as strong 
with respect to animals, Spectres and other creatures, but she still dislikes violence or 
inflicting injury in any form. If the character is forced into a confrontational situation, she 
may go so far as to defend herself, but you suffer a one- or two-Trait penalty because the 
character’s heart isn’t in it. Such a character would sooner run away from a fight than hurt 
someone in self-defense. 
I 
C O M M O N  S E N S E  ( I  T R A I T  MERIT) 
They say common sense ain’t nearly so common these days, but your character is a 
repository of such wisdom. Her intuition and folk sayings carry her through many a rough 
situation with simple wit. When your character is about to do something impractical or just 
stupid, the Storyteller will stop you and warn you that the action may not be sensible. This 
Merit is excellent for new players, in keeping them from making mistakes due to inexperi- 
ence playing the game. 
C O N C E N T R A T I O N  ( I T R A I T  MERIT) 
When your character focuses on a task, he shuts out all distractions completely and lets 
absolute precision overtake him. Nothing shakes this resolve. You never suffer any penalty 
Traits due to environmental circumstances such as loud noises, strobing lights or howling 
Maelstrom-winds. 
L I ~ A T N I N ~  
CALCULATOR( 
I TRAIT MERIT) 
Your character has a natural talent with numbers. He performs complex calculations 
in his head with ease and near-perfect accuracy. Higher mathematics such as calculating 
standard deviation and variance or calculating trajectory require a few moments more of 
thought (and the expenditure of a Mental Trait). Number theory may be entirely beyond 
you, but nobody’s perfect. 
If your character has this Merit, you never need to test to perform basic math 
calculations on the fly. You [the player] can use a calculator, ifyou like, even ifyour character 
doesn’t own one; the character runs all the numbers in his head. Vegas casino owners hate 
. people like this. 
CODE 
O P  HONOR( 
a TRAIT 
MERIT) 
Acharacterwithastrongcode ofhonor continues to follow aspecificset ofbeliefs, even 
after death. This discipline gives the wraith strength, and his adherence to his code stands 
out as exceptional. Work with the Storyteller to detail the code of honor as aspecific ethical 
or moral framework. Although your character may not delineate it in specific terms, it 
should be written down out of game to give a basic idea of what behavior he considers 
unacceptable. Any time supernatural compulsion is brought to bear in a manner that would 
violate said code of honor, you get a free retest to resist. 
E I D E T I C  M E M O R Y (  B TRAIT MERIT) 
Your character has a mind like a steel trap, and this one’s not rusty. She remembers the 
general sense of most events that she experiences, and she’s particularly good at remember- 
ing names, dates and written material. After a single turn of concentration, she can 
memorize a page of material or the gist of a scene completely. Doing so requires a Static 
Mental Challenge, difficulty of six Traits, if the character is in combat or otherwise under 
duress. You should have a small “cheat sheet” of notes so that you and the Storyteller can 
agree on what your character has committed to memory. 


lncidentallv. rnc‘moric‘s of this ilualit\r arc cxtremelv clear and conclse to the .Mnemosvnrs 
, I  
,
I
 
Arcanos. A Mnemos who delves into these memories sees them with vivid clarity. Conversely, 
if someone tries to erase or alter said memories, the operation leaves jagged “holes” around the 
area affected. Therefore, you get a free retest to defend against memory manipulation, but 
others looking in on your character’s memories gain a retest to draw out details. 
NATURAL 
LINBUIST( 
B TRAIT 
MERIT) 
Although your character don’t necessarily have the ability to learn extra languages 
automatically, he does have a powerful command of language in general. He finds it easy to 
sort out principles and ideas in other languages. You get a three-Trait bonus in all challenges 
related to any languages that your character knows. Of course, since all wraiths speak the 
language of the dead, this Merit is most useful with written material or when interacting 
with the Quick. 
I R O N  
WILL(+ TRAIT 
MERIT) 
It’s very difficult to shake a character with an iron will from his chosen course. Even 
magical compulsions take minimal hold against such formidable determination. You may 
expend a Willpower Trait to gain a retest against any use of the vampiric Dominate 
Discipline, and if you win, your character is immune to that vampire’s further uses of 
Dominate against him for the rest of the scene. Furthermore, you gain three extra Traits in 
all defenses against direct mental (not emotional) manipulation. 
S C L P  C O N P I D F N T ( 5  T R A I T  MEBIT) 
In difficult situations, your character draws upon a reservoir of skill and confidence to 
perform with grace. When your character is forced to perform some difficult task, you need 
only spend a Willpower Trait to succeed automatically. 
When you’re making a Static Challenge with a difficulty of six Traits or more, you can 
spend a Willpower Trait for automatic success. This trick works only if the subject of the 
challenge is not another character. Your character could manage to open a tough lock 
automatically (if he has the Security Ability), or he might manage to jump across a chasm, 
but he wouldn’t be able to use the benefits of this Merit to Crescendo someone into Oblivion. 
Note specifically that this Merit supersedes the normal ruling that Willpower cannot 
be used to win a Static Challenge automatically. Remember, though, that it does not apply 
to Simple Tests, to challenges with a difficulty of less than six Traits or to challenges against 
other characters (including Narrator characters). 
SOCIAL 
MERITSAND 
ELAWS 
E N E M Y (  1-5 TRAIT E L A ~ )  
Someone out there is after your character, and he wants her dead, dead, dead. (For good 
this time.) This enemy is probably a fellow wraith or a Spectre, but it might be some other 
sort of creature capable of causing serious problems. The Trait value of this Flaw determines 
the overall potency of the enemy. For one Trait, your character has an opponent roughly 
similar in power to herself; for five Traits, a seemingly unstoppable enemy is out to do her 
in. The motives of this enemy should tie in to your character’s background and history in 
some fashion. The Storyteller determines when and how the enemy intervenes in stories- 
possibly even to the point of going after your character’s entire Circle as well. 
s H r ( I  TRAIT E L A ~ )  
Some people are just uncomfortable around crowds and in social situations. When your 


B o o N ( I - 3  TRAIT 
MERIT) 
Someone owes your character. Maybe this someone is a lowly wraith among a 
Renegade gang, or maybe he’s an important Hierarchy official. The more important the 
wraith, and the more he owes, the greater the value of the boon. 
For one Trait, someone owes your character for going out of her way on his behalf. He’ll 
give you useful information or shelter, but he probably won’t do anything risky for her. 
For two Traits, your character did someone a serious favor. This someone might sneak 
your wraith some contraband or look the other way while she cross through restricted 
territory. He may also speak up on her behalf within his organization once or twice. (Just 
hope that he doesn’t go into Catharsis and sell your character out.) 
For three Traits, some wraith pretty much owes his existence to your character. He’ll 
shield and protect her to the best of his ability, speak up for her with his organization and 
even break a few wraithly laws to pay off the debt. 
Note that if a powerful Gaunt owes your character are a boon, however, the wraith 
probably won’t give her as much as a less powerful wraith would. One can assume that a 
Gaunt has sufficient influence and power to pay his debts with little effort, after all. This 
Merit assumes that the wraith in question feels bound for some reason to pay back the boon, 
be it through blackmail or just an unquiet conscience. 
MORTAL 
C O M p A N I O N ( a  T R A I T  MERIT) 
Despite death and the Fog, your character has managed to keep reasonably close ties 
with a living person. This person may be a parapsychologist, a medium or just someone who 
has a mutual tie to one of your character’s Fetters. This person is as helpful and sympathetic 
as a still-living person can be to a ghost, but she does have a life, and she won’t always be 
able to help out directly. Plus, a few episodes of Catharsis may make this acquaintance 
rethink the relationship. Still, if you exercise a few Arcanoi on this person’s behalf, you can 
often expect a good return in the living world. 
P S Y C H I C  ALLY(+ 
TRAIT M E ~ I T )  
Not only is your character on decent terms with a mortal, but that mortal is a bona fide 
sensitive. The mortal can perceive ghostly visitations in some fashion, and he accepts the 
existence of ghosts for exactly what it is. Your Storyteller must determine the full extent of 
the mortal’s powers and motivations, as well as how that person manages to communicate 
with the other side. Furthermore, some vindictive or desperate wraiths may try to steal away 
or hurt this link to the other side. (See Laws of the Hunt for some ideas about mortals with 
psychic powers and the ability to speak to the dead.) 
SUPERNATURAL 
ME RIT SAND 
ELAWS 
c ~ R ~ E ~ ( I - J  
TRAIT P L A ~ )  
Some awful bane afflicts your character, even beyond death. In certain circumstances, he 
may find himself compelled to do terrible things, or perhaps some things just never go right. 
The strength of the curse determines the value of this Flaw. For one Trait, perhaps one 
always suffers dire consequences from betraying a confidence. For five Traits, maybe the 
character is so cursed that he will wander the lands of the dead endlessly without surcease 
or rest, unable to ever Transcend or even make a modicum of success in his endeavors to 
protect his Fetters or Passions. 
D A M N E D  ( I TRAIT BLAW) 
Despite being a believer in some mortal religion, your character has come to realize that 
the endless Purgatory of the Shadowlands is just another torment and another lie in the 
chink of his former faith. Whenever your character enters a place sacred to his former 


religion, you lose a Willpower Trait each minute due to the psychological stress. If he 
touches an artifact of the faith (material or corporeal), he suffers a level of Corpus damage 
as his form sloughs off in agony of this existence. 
The Storyteller should make sure that the player selects a religion that may actually 
appear in the course of the game. A Zoroastrian is unlikely to suffer much inconvenience 
from this Flaw in a modern urban setting. 
~ R p R o p e R L y  
B U R I E D  ( I TRAIT ELAW) 
Many superstitions surround the practices of burial. By your character’s beliefs, he was 
interred improperly. Perhaps he was buried without clothes, or maybe he needed to be buried 
in his family’s grave plot, but such was not to be the case. Whatever the case, he suffers 
extreme discomfort in the afterlife. This difficulty with his own corpse causes him to suffer 
by taking your own body as a Fetter (and not as a free one, either), but you gain no Trait 
bonuses when trying to resolve or affect it. Instead, you suffer a one-Trait resolution penalty 
when your character tries to affect his corpse. He might overcome this Flaw if someone 
finally inters his body properly (and you spend two experience Traits). 
TH E BARD’S T o ~ g u c  
( I  TRAIT 
ELAW) 
Terrible truths come from your character’s lips, completely unbidden and without 
forewarning. It’s not that he sees the future; rather, things that he says have an uncanny way 
of coming true. 
Once per game session, some uncomfortable truth will come out of your character’s 
mouth, and the dire predictions of this event are almost certain to pass. Should a Storyteller 
note a particularly appropriate phrase, then when it has a chance of fulfillment, anyone 
trying to resist it must make an automatic retest and take the worst result. Thus, such a 
character might remarkoffhandedly, “Just what we need. What’s next, a batch of Spectres?” 
only to hear cackling and howling a few minutes later. Perhaps he’ll note, “You’ll never be 
able to cross the Shroud like that,” and suddenly find that the player of the character to 
whom he said it must retest his next attempt to use Embody. 
TIRE Crc~c(I-5 TRAIT 
ELAW) 
Your character’s death is tied somehow to a repeating pattern of time. The Shroud’s 
effective rating is one to four Traits higher for you (equal to the value of the Flaw), except 
for certain times when you can reach normally. If your character has a certain “hour of 
death” that works for her each day, this Flaw is worth its normal value. If she is limited to, 
say, only one day a month, add one Trait to the Flaw’s value. You should tie this time to an 
actual event surrounding your character’s death. If she died at sea, she might only be able 
to affect the world at the hours around high and low tide. If she was killed on a Sunday, she 
can only touch the world on Sundays. 
B C H O E S ( a - 5  TRAIT &AW) 
Old wives’ tales and superstitions about ghosts are true with respect to your character. 
When he’s around, animals react strongly; open flames seem to hypnotize him; running 
water bars his passage, as does seasalt; his outline sometimes appears in fog. Sounds he makes 
can be recorded on tape, and he might even leave bits of ectoplasm on things that he touches 
in the living lands. Your character can’t control this phenomenon; he just seems to reflect 
the area residents’ beliefs regarding the behavior of ghosts naturally. 
The value of this Flaw depends upon its severity. For two Traits, the character may just 
make the occasional bump in the night or cold spot. For five Traits, he slimes everything 
he touches, he causes animals to hiss and spit at him, and he can be driven out by exorcism 
rites and wards against the Evil Eye. 


LIMITED 
L I ~ E S I ~ H T ( ~  
TRAIT PLAW) 
Your character has great difficulty seeing living things and their patterns. While most 
wraiths can sense the general patterns of emotion and life in people, you suffer a two-Trait 
resolution penalty in such challenges (Oblivion, p. 160). To your character, the living world 
is blurry and difficult to see, almost as if the shroud of death itself keeps him from tying back 
into the brilliance of the living. 
LIMITED 
D F A T H S I ~ H T (  
a TRAIT PLAW) 
Your character’s ability to discern patterns of injury and decay is quite limited. Maybe 
she rejects death so much that she can’t sense it in others, or perhaps it’s just not part ofher 
conception of ghostly power. For whatever reason, you suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty 
in all challenges with Deathsight (Oblivion, p. 160). 
~ o v N o ( 3  
TRAIT  law) 
Some place or event holds such significance to your character that he can’t leave it. 
Maybe he can haunt only a house where he lived and died, or perhaps he haunts a particular 
tree. You cannot move more than 100 yards from this location, and you must take it as a 
Fetter. 
Naturally, this Flaw can limit your story possibilities a great deal, so choose carefully! 
Should the character ever resolve this Fetter, you will be able to leave the area, thankfully. 
Most wraiths just have dark urges in their minds encouraging them to do nasty things. 
For your wraith, though, those urges manifest in the form of asmall plasmic animal or object. 
It can manifest at odd times, even moving around to interact with things as if it has one 
Physical Trait. If it’s discorporated by force, the Shadow simply dissolves back into your 
character’s head to torment him internally. (You can’t get away from it that easily!) While 
the Shadow exists in this external form, you must speak aloud to address it. 
You should carry a prop or card that represents this disembodied Shadow. From time 
to time, your Storyteller or Shadowguide may rule that it’s harassing someone or playing 
around with objects in the vicinity. 
DISEMBODIED 
! h A D O W ( 3  
T R A I T  PLAW) 
U M B R A L  c O N N G C T I O N ( 3  T R A I T  PLAW) 
By some quirk of chance, your character’s existence extends into the middle Umbra, 
the mirror of the vibrant living lands. Although he cannot see or affect the Umbra, spirits 
that wander there can see him as a pale shade. Werewolves or magicians can even use their 
magical powers to affect such an unfortunate character, binding him or banishing him while 
he remains unaware of what exactly is going on. 
DARE 
g A T E  (5 T R A I T  PLAW) 
Your character is doomed not only to an existence more horrid than this wraithly one, 
but to a final end where all of his struggles come to naught. Worse still, he is aware of this 
fate through vague dreams, hunches or premonitions - 
or maybe just because some 
malicious demon or Shadow told him about it. At some point, his struggles will end, and he 
will go on to a fate more terrible than Oblivion, more repugnant than Spectrehood and more 
inevitable than death. Your Storyteller will design this final end, of which you may have 
occasional premonitions. 
U N K N O W N  d E T T E R ( 1 - 5  T R A I T  M E R I T )  
Some connection ties your character to a place or object, but he has no idea what it is 
or why he’s connected. Certain Arcanoi might help one to identify this Fetter, but otherwise 
it’s a mystery. This Merit is actually quite handy, though, because nobody else is likely to 


know of the Fetter either, and thus it’s not at great risk of destruction by enemies. Then 
again, a wraith can’t protect a Fetter if he doesn’t know what it is. 
The value of this Merit depends on the value and durability of the Fetter in question. 
If the Fetter is unlikely to suffer from outside intervention, it costs more to be unknown. If 
neither your character nor his enemies ever discover it, it may exist forever! A Fetter that’s 
at risk of discovery or that is more easily disposable costs less. 
C O L D  ( B TRAIT MERIT) 
Remember those tales of ghosts causing “cold spots” in haunted areas! They’re true with 
your character. When he walks through an area, the temperature drops noticeably in the 
living lands. This drop can draw attention to the character’s presence, and it could even be 
tracked and measured with heat-sensing gear. On the other hand, most mortals will only 
shiver and try to get away. By applying the effects of this Merit carefully, a ghost can 
encourage people to leave a haunt or to pay attention to him, or even communicate crudely 
with the living. (This cold spot is just a blob of low-temperature, though. The wraith with 
this Merit does not appear as a ghostly silhouette if viewed through infrared goggles.) 
~ u c w ( 3  
TRAIT MERIT) 
All right, your character can’t be all that lucky - 
she’s dead, after all -but 
Fortune 
does seem to favor her. You have three Lucky Traits that you can use for retests on any 
challenge. As usual, you can only use one such Trait on any given challenge. These Traits 
refresh each game session. 
OTHER HALE (3 TRAIT MERIT) 
Some philosophers believe that each person is a half-soul, who can find completion 
only by discovering its other half in another person. Well, your character did just that. This 
other half is just about anyone still living - 
casual acquaintance, old friend, relative, 
whatever - 
but the depth of the connection is profound. Count this individual as one of 
your wraith‘s Fetters (no, not as afree one). Whenever the character is near this individual 
(within, say, the same room), he regains one Corpus Trait per hour. Any bonuses that you’d 
gain for acting on the person are doubled, making it very easy for your character to attune 
the individual and then use his Arcanoi on him. 
You cannot take both this Merit and the Merit: True Love. 
B R I g H T ( 4  T R A I T  M E R I T )  
Even the Shroud cannot staunch the intensity of your character’s drives. His desire to 
exist beyond life is so powerful that he practically radiates his emotions into the living lands. 
(Or, perhaps he doesn’t intend to do so, but for some reason, he finds that the Shroud doesn’t 
keep him from interacting there.) You gain a one-Trait bonus to resolution of tests across 
the Shroud, and any mortal who cares to interact with your character gains a similar one- 
Trait bonus on the test to notice him. Furthermore, all mortals gain a free retest against the 
Fog when dealing with such a character. The emotions he generates are so intense that it 
impresses him on their minds and memories. 
TRUE 
h V E ( 4  TRAIT 
M E R I T )  
At some point, in either life or death, your character found a true love. Memories of 
this joy buoy him in difficult situations, and the thought of his love is enough to keep him 
pressing on when the afterlife seems stacked against him. You gain a one-Trait bonus on all 
challenges in which your character is acting to directly maintain his relationship with his 
true love (for as long as his true love reciprocates the feeling). 
You cannot take both this Merit and the Merit: Other Half. 


Your character’s dark emotions have limited sway over him. Perhaps his superego is 
stronger than most, or maybe he’s just a naturally temperate soul. Your character’s Shadow 
must win or tie a Simple Test to enter Catharsis after spending five Angst, and it gains Angst 
from Dark Passions only if it wins a Simple Test, rather than getting a retest on a tie (see 
Oblivion, p. 170). 
TRUE 
~ A I T H  (7 TRAIT MERIT) 
I 
The strength of your character’s religious convictions buoys her. She believes firmly 
that some sentient power guides and watches over the cosmos. Although this existence may 
not be the afterlife she was promised, her strength of character expresses itself in the 
unshakeable devotion to her principles. You receive the benefits of the Merit: Code of 
Honor, 
plus an added perk. Attempts to coerce your character to eschew or betray her code 
of honor - 
be they supernatural or attempted Social Challenges based on your character’s 
Nature -fail automatically. You may also make a Simple Test after using an Eidolon Trait 
to put down your character’s Shadow. If you win that test, you do not lose that Eidolon Trait 
(as you should, as per Oblivion p. 136). 


rUS 
Kdge n g a u t x  Lhe Darkness; 
Tempe, AZ 
Kevin Lynch 11, 
Collin Toohey, 
KWLynch@aol.com 
Song of Sonora; Tucson, AZ 
Cy bertec@cyberdude.com 
(520) 722-2688 
(602) 942-4994 
O T H E R S  ( U N S ~ E C I E I E D A N D  
M I X E D  C ~ A M E S )  
Dark Carpathia, Portland, Maine 
More Than Night: 
Portland, Oregon 
http://home.maine.rr.com/ 
darkcarpathia/darkcarp.html 
(Independent game that some- 
times 
playtests 
upcoming 
supplements) 
East of the River, Vernon, CT 
Bruce Baugh, bruce-baugh@sff.net 
D. Scott Stewart, 
storyteller@eotr.org 
Nox Imperium; Longview, WA 
katzmeow@kalama.com 
Fortress of the Mind’s Eye: 
Lansing, MI 
Of Shadow & Light, 
Aaron Ledger, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
1edgeraaQpilot .msu.edu 
Brian-Joseph Baker, 
bakebj b@email.uc.edu 
(517) 372-1452 
(513) 777-7778 
Imagination Shop Theater Guild 
Fridays: Sacramento, CA 
Alternate Saturdays: 
Santa Cruz, CA 
Sundays: Santa Rosa, CA 
Pete Magnetti, 
I STG-M AIN @hot mai l.com 
Trails End Troupe; Salem, OR 
Coordinatrix@hotmail.com 
United San Diego; San Diego, CA 
Dennis “Tristan” Hanson, 
Dollphynn@aol.com 
(9 16) 369-6948 
80 
