I 
I 
I 
iECAUSF THE M I N D ' S  €YE NEVER "LINK: 


WELCOME TO THE 
THE MAGAZINE THAT PICKS U P  WHERE OTHER 
MIND’S EYE PUBLICATIONS LEAVE OFF. 
O U R  FIRST ISSUE PRESENTS: 
MIND’S 
EYE THEATRE 
JOURNAL, 
LIVE-ACTION RULES FOR PLAYING THE THALLAIN 
3 F  THE SHADOW COURT 
’ 
WORLD OF DARKNESS FICTION 
A HUMAN’S PERSPECTIVE OF THE TERRORS THAT 
STALK THE W O R D  O F  DARKNESS 
.A LOOK AHEAD AT ONE O F  THE MOST EAGERLY 
ANTICIPATED MIND’S EYE THEATRE RELEASE OF 
THE YEAR 
THE JOURNAL PROVIDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED 
TO MAKE YOUR MIND‘S EYE THEATRE 
CHRONICLES 
ISBN 1-56504-779-6 
w w 5 4 0 3  $7.95 us. 
5 0 7 9 5  
3 781565 047792 
I 


l3ECAUSE THE MIND’S €YE NEVER BLINKS 


0 1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Reproduction without 
the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes 
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, 
which may be reproduced for personal use 
only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquer- 
ade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the 
Ascension, World of Darkness and Aber- 
rant are registered trademarks of White 
Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the 
Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, 
Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Mind’s EyeTheatre Journal 
Laws of the Night, Masquerade, Oblivion, The Shining Host and The Shadow Court are 
trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, 
places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a 
challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This hook uses the Supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical 
and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. 
Reader discretion is advised. For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
735 PAM NORTH 
SUITE 128 
CUMSTON, CA 30021 
USA 
G A M E  STUDIO 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 


WELCOME 
T H E  CURRENT 
THINKING 
D E A D G U Y  
SPEAKS 
M F T  PROEILES: 
J E S S  H E I N I C ~  
A N D  CYNTHIA 
SUMMERS 
THE SHADOW 
COURT 
C O R R A L L I N C ~  
PROB 
L E M  PLAYERS 
H U N T I N C ~  
LORES 
S T R I N ~  
QUARTET 
M E T  PREVIEW 
EREQUENTLY ASKED 
QUESTIONS 
€ V E N T  HORIZON 


THF CURRFNT 
T H I N K I N 5  
Ah.. . conflict. lf nothing else, that’s what this section is here for. Sort ofa 
cross between a round-table discussion and a WWF cage-match, this is the place 
to hash out issues regarding Mind’s Eye from licensing to rule-brokenness to 
LARPing style. Give me your opinions, respond to opinions you see here, bnbe 
me just to get your name in print, whatever. Just keep it relatively clean, and stay 
off the bad side of the people you disagree with. After all, that keen-edged rapier 
wit is designed for each others’ arguments and opinions, not for each others’ 
personal lives. 
(For the readers who aren’t clued in to how fast the publishing schedule 
moves, let this letter column stand as a guide. Only now am I getting to print 
responses to letters that appeared in the first issue of the Journal. For those 
of you who sent me mail concerning letters in the last issue, fear not - 
I’m 
not ignoring you. As of publication of this issue, I simply hadn’t received 
them yet.) For those of you just tuning in, a debate thread concerning two 
different LARP games appeared in the first issue of the Journal. One 
accused the other of being a juvenile gore-fest that encouraged min-maxing; 
the other accused the first of being overly complicated, thus hamstringing 
roleplaying. Our first outside contender, Matt Sullins, weighs in on that 
issue and others. 
Well, Carl, you asked for some personal opinions in the sidebar at the end 
of [“The Current Thinking” in the first issue of the Journal]. You asked, “HOW 
far is too far before you lose the roleplaying and Storytelling aspects that make 
our games what they are?” My only thought here is that as soon as my players 
and I begin playing a game it is no longer yours. There is no such thing as “too 
far” as long as we enjoy ourselves. The White Wolf Nazi Terror Squad is not 
going to break down my door and shut down my LARP. There is no reason not 
to play as the group sees fit. Mind you, I personally stand by the Big 6 rules in 
all of the Masquerade books. (While the White Wolf Nazi Terror Squad might 
not stop you from breaking these, other groups, like the police, might. Keep 
that in mind before you go biting some innocent teenager’s neck and trying to 
use “Matt told me it was OK’ as a defense.) 
T
H
~
 
C U R R E N T  THINK IN^ 
Q) 


Finally, I have a question of my own that I would like to throw into the 
ring. Do other LARPers feel that their group should organize and encourage 
charity work? I know that the Camarilla is in favor of this, and I have found it 
to be a good thing myself. I am just curious as to the opinions of others. 
Hugs and Chainsaws, 
-Matt 
Sullins 
Head Storyteller 
Seraphim Theater Troupe 
“Terror squad” indeed. Terror squads are sopuss. Everyone knows it’s 
all lawyers now. Anyway. 
I’ll keep this short and sweet. To solve this rules debate [from Issue #1], 
take Liber des Goules, turn to page 16, look for the heading that says, “The 
Only Rules That Matter,” and read. 
Aside from that, if your troupe wants to incorporate wereparrots from 
post-apocalyptic Antarctica, go for it. It’s just a (damn great) game. 
-Robert 
Dupuis 
Well then. Moving on, we come to Mark Lewis, a guy who (without 
having seen the second issue of the Journal, ironically) has come out with 
his opinion on the Camarilla organization and One World by Night blazing. 
H e  also opines on the varying degrees of LARP maturity, as he sees them. 
Before I begin, let me congratulate you on a good first issue. It was 
entertaining, well presented and didn’t suck. My one critique: is starting off 
with “The True Black Hand” a device I have yet to see regarded as well liked 
by any of the local LARPs (or the glut of MUSHes I stop in at regularly). 
Your questions are interesting. Cam, Independent or Wannabecam (Le., 
One World By Night)? Speaking only for the games in my area, that I have had 
contact with, Indie appears the best. The Camarilla earned itself a bad name 
back in the early ‘90s with its - ahem - LARP. Unfortunately, the system of 
“buff stats for doing Cam organization stuff placed too much power in the 
hands of twits. The Storyteller staff felt the need to make each “episode” 
(episodic nature being a problem unto itself in my view) more grandiose than 
the last. Why, in the first game I played, our opponent was an Unseelie Fae (a 
year or two before The Shining Host, might I add) who had managed to kidnap 
the Raccoon Totem. Oh yes, this is the subject of a Vampire LARP. My 
experience with One Worldby Night andother “shareduniverse” groups is just 
as dismal. The few roleplayers that were present were dwarfed by the Rules 
Lawyers, Stick Jocks Turned LARPer and Sixteen-Year-Old Cool Kids, none 
of whom had any idea what was going on. But the “Cam, Indie, Other” 
classification system doesn’t hit the real issues. 


plot” is most important. The players are new to playing. They want to create 
characters who incorporate every cool little thing they’ve seen/read/heard/ 
dreamed. They see the letter of the rules and not the spirit. They consider a 
Clan War to be that cluster-fuck-mass-combat that happens at the end of each 
and every one of their games because the boredom just has to be stopped. In 
short, everyone has the drive to play and make a game of it, but they don’t yet 
know the differences between MET LARPing and table top (or boffer weapons 
for that matter). The combat wombats usually gravitate toward the fringes of 
the game where no one will interfere with their challenges. The socialites will 
find a dark comer and grope. The unsure will mill about, occasionally trying 
something that pops into their heads just to be doing something. And the 
“good LARPers” hide from everyone for as long as they can in the hopes their 
well-thought-out character (who even has Flaws meant to build character, 
rather than to min-max points) can survive the night. This is the game where 
archons and justicars show up regularly because there “is just no other way to 
keep control.” 
The sophomore LARP comes about when the Storytellers or players (or 
some of both) start to see the Story within the Game. The Storytellers try to 
make some movement toward a coherent plot line that they hope is new and 
different. They allow and encourage some player-driven plots, as long as the 
sanctity of “their plot” remains. They discourage the combat wombats by 
throwing in some “heavy hitters,” designed just for that purpose. They start to 
provide rumors based on Influences, and they encourage players to research 
said rumors to find plot. The players, in turn, place some thought into a new 
character, with the emphasis more on character than min-maxing. The social 
order starts to develop, and primogen last more than a couple games, but there 
are still problems. Those one or two players who are better schemers then the 
Storytellers get stomped on “in the name of plot” cough - ego-bruised - cough. 
The Storyteller’s roommate is the antagonist “since he knows everything 
about the plot anyway”. The “fringe players” still can’t quite get involved 
enough, no one gloms on to them as the useful pawns they can be. Things still 
aren’t right. 
The senior LARP is a partnership between Storyteller and player. It is a 
series of joint tales, told by everyone involved. Ego doesn’t rear its head much 
any more, the Storytellers encourage players who manage to outthink them, 
and they create fluid enough plots to compensate and entertain. Players make 
characters who need development, so they can find a personal story within that 
development. Combat is rare, but when it happens it furthers the story, not 
simply kills an hour and 1/3 of the player base. The Storyteller’s plots are subtle 
and provoke emotion; they promote roleplaying rather than just existing as a 
thing to “discover and be amazed.” 
I have yet to see a senior game, and I’ve been a Storyteller at two separate 
LARPs. I’ve seen games come close but they always seem to fail in the end. And 
it’s due to that second question: Is this an invite-only game or open-invite? It’s 


always that kid who’s a friend of a friend of a guy you work with, who shows up 
with a bunch of friends and who are playing the freshman game, untended and 
untaught. It’s the new Storyteller who, it turns out, has no clue but has to be 
in charge anyway. It’s the random factor of not knowing what new DNA is 
hitting the gene-pool this month. 
So in my mind, the number of rules mean nothing. It’s the players and 
Storytellers that are using the rules that make the difference. 
Wow, I really like this soapbox now, don’t I? 
Later. 
-Mark 
Lewis 
Luchadore of Gehenna 
H e  sure does. Can anybody help me out on “luchadore” though? 
Anyhow, the next two letters jump track a bit from the previous discussion. 
They deal with possible causes of sexism in roleplaying gaming (as opposed 
to “sexism in role-playing,” which is altogether different), from some people 
who have been on the receiving end. Thanks to the “Conclave” mailing list 
for sparking this topic of discussion. 
Most of the men in gaming have been playing roleplaying games for some 
time now. They have been doing that playing with men, for the most part. That 
is the situation they are used to and it is somewhat strange to find themselves 
playing with women now. But I think another factor could be the difference 
in styles of roleplaying between men and women. 
[Women] tend to play less aggressively (or at least less overtly aggressive) 
than the guys do. Women also tend to care more about the roleplaying aspects 
of the game and having interesting in-game conversations than about maxing 
their points and having a heinous character. 
I know that I have been told that I don’t build my characters well. I have 
been told, with my points, I should have bought this and that and that over 
there just to be a stronger more ‘efficiently’ built character. This player (and 
I think most of us may have an idea who might have said this) never considered 
that I bought what I did for my character because it fit what my character was 
doing in her life and then un-life. As her situation changed I bought different 
things to help her not because it was a “good buy.” 
My point in explaining all of that was that this player, and those like him 
who believe in having the most solid player possible, do not have much respect 
for me or my ability as a player when I don’t try to min-max. 
Unless you have an obviously strong character, you aren’t perceived as a 
threat by the other characters. It’s true outside the game as well. Unless you are 
an obviously strong player, the others don’t go out of their way to play with you. 


And truthfully, it does get annoying to be treated as though the women 
in these games are merely there for decoration. This isn’t a ‘slight diversion,’ 
or a ‘cute hobby,’ for us, we are there to play and be involved. 
O n  the other hand, I do think that the women don’t tend to jump into the 
game the way the men do. They often hang around the sidelines and wait to 
be included, whereas the men tend to walk in and demand attention. 
And yet, when we do demand attention or stand up in a situation we 
should be recognized in and they still overlook us, it gets harder to try and take 
a stand the next time. Or the situation can occur that we try to stand up and 
get noticed, begin pushing to get noticed, and all the guys will do is think ‘bitch’ 
and then make it a point to not interact with our characters. 
It just seems harder to strike that balance and gain their respect as a player. 
-Luciann 
Wasson 
The problem having been broached, another respondent on the same 
thread had this to say about where this brand of sexism comes from, as well 
as a thought on how to stem the tide. 
True, most of the guys spent the first formative years of their roleplaying 
careers in hormonally swamped all-guy groups where the only females were the 
nefarious NPC succubi who attempted to lure their half-elf paladin fighter- 
mages away from the treasure caves. Our live-action games are (hopefully) 
more mature and complicated, and they require more roleplaying skill than 
perhaps many of us have trained for. 
I think that men need the practice of seeing women as varied, three- 
dimensional fictional characters, and women need the practice of seeing (and 
expressing) themselves that way. Let me give you a personal example: 
In the process of my job search, I talked with a fellow from the Navy who 
informed me that, with my qualifications, I was eligible for a nuclear physics 
program that could have me commanding my own nuclear-powered battleship 
within two decades. 
The second most disturbing occurrence that I had to put up with upon 
revealing this possible opportunity was that every male friend I told about it 
reacted with, “Awwww! Isn’t that cute! Although every time you give an order 
to fire, they’d just pinch your cheeks and pat you on the head!” - or something 
similar. 
The most disturbing thing about it was that I couldn’t picture myself in 
such a job. It would take Xena or Demi Moore from G.I. June to do that - 
someone who could handle such a role. Not me. I would just get laughed at and 
pinched on the cheeks. 
I wouldn’t call all of this “sexism,” however - 
that label implies more of 
a deliberate intent. I think that the situation of women in our live-action 
games is more a result of the habits and social conditioning of both sexes as well 


as a side effect 
can cure with 
of the low numbers of women who participate. 
good storytelling, some you can't. 
Some of 
-Hannah 
Curry 
F U R T H E R  FUEL 
Let me hear from you! 
You can e-mail your answers to these points or opinions on subjects of your 
White Wolf Publishing Inc. 
Attn: Mind's Eye Theatre Journal 
735 Park North Blvd. 
Suite 128 
Clarkston, GA 30021 
choosing to carl@white-wolf.com or mail them to: 
T H E  
C U R R E N T  THINKING 


DFADCjUY SPFAKS 
- 
by Richard E. Dansky 
1 
Rich Dansky has been a Dart of White 
shortly before Christ crawled &om the prirnordial”ocean. 
at Cyprus. He has been the developer for Mind’s Eye 
Theatre, the developerfor Wraith: the Oblivionand 
I 
the developerfor Vampire: the Dark Ages. Watch for 1 
this column to showc&e Rich’s unique insight 
I 
observations on life in general and (should we 
1 his view of the development of Mind’s Eye Theatre: 
I WASA Z O O M !  GIRL’S LOVE SLAVE 
or 
WHY 
IT’S GOOD To B E A N  € L E I N A  BARN 
S E R I  O U S L Y .  
Before I get into the meat of this issue’s column (or the flavored and textured soy, for 
those of you who are vegetarians in your reading habits), allow me to pass on a little 
convention-going advice. If, perchance, you discover that the convention you want to 
attend is being held in a quote-unquote “Agricultural Center,” be aware that what they 
really mean by that is “barn.” Actually, what they mean is “really big barn.” In the particular 
instance from which I was able to glean this insight, “WesternNorth Carolina Agricultural 
Center” was semantically equivalent to “Livestock Auction Building Off to the Side of a 
Collection of Big Barns.” In still other words, “Moo.” 
Which doesn’t prove much of anything, I suppose, but it is good to keep in mind before 
you traipse off to Asheville, or wherever. Now, where was I? 
Oh yes. Elves in barns, and why it’s good to be one. 
There’s been a slow but steady stream of mail into the office about the choice of books 
we’ve put out for the Mind’s Eye Theatre line. These letters are about why some topics have 
received attention and others haven’t, i.e. why Wraith got translated early on, why 
Apocalypse went out of print, why we haven’t printed one of the approximately four billion 
MET Mage submissions to come in and so on. And yes, all of these questions will be 
answered in an upcoming column. Honest. There’s a method to this madness, and no, it 
doesn’t involve a dart board or flipping a coin. 
In any case, a repeated theme in this correspondence is a curiosity about The Shining 
Host. Some folks want to know why we did the book, because changelings are notoriously 
difficult to integrate into Vampire LARP games. After all, they’re theoretically shiny and 
happy, they don’t necessarily hang out at art museums after closing or trendy clubs at all, and 
they have means of kicking a vampire’s ass that are both unexpected and very difficult to 
guard against. Others want to know why we did the book at all, or why we didn’t do it sooner, 
or why there aren’t nunnehi rules.. . well, you get the idea. But mostly, people are a bit thrown 
off by the fact that The Shining Host seems to stand in such opposition to Masquerade. 
So let’s take some time and think about The Shining Host and what it’s good for. 


I admit that the concept of doing Changeling for MET was originally a daunting one. 
Why? Well, for one thing, by the time the Mind’s Eye schedule got straightened out back 
then, I had an appallingly short time to actually get the thing written. This is what we in 
the business of putting games out there call a “panic situation.” Roughly, you want to leave 
at least two months’ lead time, preferably more (I try give a writer a month for each 20,000 
words of her assignment, although occasionally crises necessitate Herculean efforts to get 
things in with little or no room to maneuver), before the first draft of a book is due, let alone 
the final draft that goes into development. On a short book, like a Clanbook, you can fudge 
things a little bit. On a longer book, you’re generally in trouble with less than three months’ 
lead time. O n  a huge book, like one over 200 pages, you need to set things rolling way in 
advance or you’re liable to end up with a manuscript that is a.) too short, b.) written in fluent 
Tagalog because your author burned out 47,000 words in and started typing with his nose, 
or c.) eaten by the cosmic ducks in transit. (Note: This third option is a polite yet delightfully 
whimsical way of saying “never actually got written.”) 
For those of you playing along with the home game, The Shining Host was a big, big 
book. In other words, I was screwed. 
Or at least I would have been, if not for the intrepid, talented and entirely too eager 
Peter Woodworth, who had read the submissions guidelinesfor Mind’s Eye and decided that 
a good old three-page submission wasn’t good enough for him. No, by gum, he was going to 
send in his entire rules system for live-action Changeling for me to look at, and he was going 
to make sure I read every last word. Lucky for both of us that I was desperate, because the 
package he finally sent was huge. 
I mean, I’d never seen a submission with a snow line on it. Acres of trees died to make 
the paper for this thing. Two intems got hernias lugging it from the mail table. Mules gave 
up and died in the traces trying to haul it back to my office. I still had an office back then, 
instead of a cubicle the color of the slime moldsrunning their own little Daytona 500 around 
the inside of the company fridge, if that tells you how long ago this all was. 
And because I was able to scrape the last few pennies out of my karmic piggy bank, the 
submission was good. Perfect? Naaah - 
nothing’s perfect, as alt.games.whitewolf con- 
stantly reminds me. But did it have potential? Certainly. Could it be made universal in the 
time we had! With a little luck, it could indeed. There was hope after all. 
(Side note: Peter is the sort of guy who makes me sick. I found out, after calling him 
up with a contract in hand, that he was all of 17. He’d written the whole kit and caboodle 
while attending high school, and he’d done it with a good prose style, an eye toward rules 
balance and a healthy sense of humor. When I was his age, I was composing “Dear Sir, I 
always thought the letters in your magazine were fiction until that night when I was viciously 
ambushed by three voluptuous cheerleaders and a dancing bear” letters for publication, and 
anything longer than four pages was a moral victory. To make matters worse, he’s charming, 
polite, punctual and professional. Disgusting, ain’t it?) 
So, the long and short of it is that, eventually, we got a book. It went through the usual 
playtesting, editing, screaming, howling and gibbering phases that every book goes through, and 
it hit the shelves eventually. That, needless to say, is when the funny stuff started happening. 
By funny stuff, I mean “weird even by the standards of this comer of this particularly 
unbalanced field of literary endeavor,” which is to say, pretty dam weird. Oh, there was the 
usual tug-of-war back and forth on the newsgroups (“I love it!” “I hate it!” “Duck season!” 
“Wabbit season! ”) and the usual hail of criticisms (some of which were warranted, and some 
of which weren’t), but there was also a significant undercurrent from folks talking about 
what they did at their Changeling LARPs. They didn’t stake the prince in the hallway three 
times before anyone brought out snacks. They did, however, have a lot of fun dressing to the 
nines and cutting loose - 
and they brought their kids. 


That was important for me. As much fun as Vampire LARP is and as much as I enjoy 
it, it’s not the sort of place I’d ever feel comfortable taking my hypothetical children to hang 
out. Too much of the underlying dynamic is simply nasty - 
not in the sense that the 
gameplay itself is nasty, but let’s face it. We’re talking about pretending to be a bunch of 
predators circling the same bloody half-pound of chuck roast in the water. That’s not 
necessarily kid-friendly. 
The Shining Host, on the other hand, is about wonder, at least to an extent. 
Occasionally, the game itself demands that you do something without an agenda, you have 
some fun, you be creative for a bit. Mind you, it doesn’t have to be that way - 
if you want 
to run a Shadow Court game, more power to you. But it strikes me as a good thing that 
parents feel good about bringing their small children to Changeling LARPs and that those 
games are perceived as safe, healthy places for those kids to be. 
Yeah. Great. Whatever, right? What does that matter in the grand scheme of things? 
It matters a lot, I think. By allowing folks to bring their kids along for a day of gaming, The 
Shining Host opens up LARPing to people who might otherwise not have been able to do 
so. It’s one hell of a thing to try to find a sitter who’ll take care of Vlad Jr. until the local 
Camarilla game wraps up at 3 2 8  AM, let me tell you, and on-site vampiric daycare is pretty 
difficult to come by. (No, this is not a suggestion; the insurance issues alone boggle the 
mind.) If you ask me, getting more people out there and playing, regardless of system, is a 
positive thing. 
And all of this brings me - 
by roads as roundabout as the highway that snakes down 
Mt. Pisgah - 
to the topic mentioned in the title of the column: namely, why it’s good to 
be an elf in a barn. 
Recently, I (along with the inimitable Jess Heinig -Go ahead. Try to nimit him. I dare 
you.) had the pleasure of attending KarmaCon in Asheville, North Carolina. Yes, it was 
held in a barn - 
well, an Agricultural Center - 
and yes, there was a paint horse show 
(whatever that is) going on in the corral and large barns across the way. The convention was 
small, with all of the activities crammed into the livestock auction building. Still, it was an 
energetic small con, with a healthy gaming track, a friendly and courteous con staff, a 
surprisingly profitable charity auction and a LARP. Hoo boy, did they have a LARP. 
Let me preface this next section by saying that it is not for the faint of heart, the easily 
offended or anyone who believes that live action roleplaying begins and ends on the end of 
a clove cigarette. What we’re about to dive into, ladies and germs, is the dreaded Elves In 
A Barn game. 
(Or, as noted by the inestimable David Bolack, a case of Barns and Nobles. Send the 
hate mail to me, and I’ll forward it to him.) 
By all rights, the game shouldn’t have worked. Included in gameplay were, among other 
things, a batch of Marauders who thought they were superheroes, a flying saucer, a 
backwoods hick troll named Clem who worked for another changeling named J.R. (and yes, 
the poor sumbitch did get shot so that everyone could ask “Who shot J.R.?” If you don’t get 
that joke, you’re too young to be reading this.), an over-amorous cow and a six-year old 
Unseelie princess who got very annoyed when no one came to rescue her at various points 
during the weekend. In other words, it was a mess. Sitting behind the White Wolf table, 
gazing down on the action, I could simultaneously see superheroics, high intrigue, down- 
and-dirty tussling and.. . em.. . umm.. . what Tom Lehrer once called “animal husbandry.” 
If there was an actual plot, it was well-camouflaged. If there was a method to the madness, 
it escaped me. 
And you know what? The game was a rampaging, rollicking, foot-stomping saucer- 
landing success. Nothing earthshattering happened, mind you - 
no Antediluvians woke 
from slumber, no Bastet Nagaraja Abominations with Mage spheres walked in the door, no 


no armiesofthe Risendead stormed the castle to get the WhosawhatLon. Folks just go; their 
characters, got hit over the head occasionally with assorted plot developments and had fun. 
And that, in the end, is why it’s a good thing to be an elf in a barn, or anywhere else, 
for that matter. Not everyone digs the totally immersive roleplaying experience or needs the 
pillars of Heaven to shake every time they play Rock-Paper-Scissors. Sometimes the best 
game for a situation is low powered and freeform, and the hell with all the grand and glorious 
angst for a while. Come on, seriously, do you really think that a high-powered Masquerade 
game, with elders and Machiavellian plots, would have worked terribly well in a livestock 
auction building? As good as you, I, or anyone might be at imagining the surroundings to 
be other than what they are, there are times when you just have to go with what reality gives 
you - 
and in this case, reality gave us straw, dirt and a faint, absurd whiff of horse. Trying 
to overcome the solid reality of the game’s surroundings would have taken too much effort, 
leaving too little energy for the game. 
And so, what we had was perfect for what we had. If the surroundings were a little bit 
wonky (and even the con staff admitted that things were a little goofier than they might 
have expected), then we got a game that played up that attitude perfectly. Would things 
have worked half so well were we not playing live action Changeling? Of course not :each 
system has its own strengths, but neither Laws of the Night’s nor Laws of the WildOs nor 
Oblivion’s nor anything else’s rules play explicitly to the sort of wide-open, over the top 
freedom that a Changeling LARP does. 
So what’s today’s moral? Well, mainly it’s some sort ofmuttering about how picking the 
right game for the right circumstances generally leads to more fun for all concerned. 
Religiously strict adherence to a single system, no matter how much you love it, can force 
you into some awkward gaming situations. Let’s face it, do you really want to try to convince 
the local 900 year old Toreador to try to hang out in a barn for the duration of a weekend? 
(“What is that I just stepped in, Alfonse?” “Cow poopoo, mistress.” “Can we make art out 
of it?” “Sadly, no, mistress.”“Aieeeeeee!”) And let’s not even think about Apocalypse.. .(“Bad 
dog! Stay in the barn until you learn how to behave in the house! Stay!”). 
So, in the end, if the hand you’re dealt calls for you to be an elf in a barn (or anywhere 
else suitable, for that matter), well, take what you’re given and run with it. You might 
surprise yourself by having one hell of a good time, whether you want to or not. 
(Oh, and for you filthv-mindedsouls who read all this way to find out about the ZOOM! 
I 


M € T  PROEILFS 
B I G  EISH, SMALL POND 
by Jess Heinig 
A DEVELOPMENT 
VIEWOE 
MIND’SEYFTHFATRF 
So I had the job for all of three months. 
When I first showed up at White Wolf, I was slotted as the Kindred of the East 
developer. The idea at the time was to expand Kindred of the East into a full line, 
covering all of the mysteries of Asiatic vampires. I’d develop four books each year, 
and I’d also work as a co-developer for Vampire, handling maybe two additional core 
books per year. Since I liked Vampire, loved Kindred of the East and had a 
background in martial arts, Japanese history and Chinese culture, the idea seemed 
perfect at the time. 
A few development outlines later, we (meaning White Wolf) came to the 
conclusion that live-action games needed better treatment. To whit, Rich Dansky 
had developed the last few MET books in addition to his usual development 
schedule for Wraith and anything else that needed the help. Now, Rich is no mere 
mortal, so he actually managed the Herculean task of pushing out quality Mind’s Eye 
Theatre books while working full-time on another line. Still, it had become clear 
that the live-action game line needed a separate developer, someone to pay 
attention to the rapidly changing culture and rules. 
Silly me. I volunteered. 
Well, Kindred of the East got shuffled around to keep the books in develop- 
ment, and I wound up with a new hat. Just when I got my business cards all printed 
with “Kindred of the East Developer,” I changed over to working full-time on 
Mind’s Eye Theatre. My first job: Salvage the manuscript of Laws of the Hunt, 
which was running late, short and choppy. 
“No problem,” I thought to myself. “I’ve always loved live-action, and I ran a 
game of over 200 players. This can’t be any tougher than that.” 


Silly me twice - 
shame on me. 
A quick look over Laws of the Hunt showed me that it had the potential to 
wreak some serious live-action havoc -but 
in a good way. However, it needed a 
little push to fulfill that potential. So I tossed in some advanced True Faith. The old 
material from Antagonists was, frankly, difficult to understand and of limited utility 
beyond its basic powers, so I brushed up the various groups of hunters, giving them 
each a distinctive feel and a unique set of advantages. Next came equipment: Here, 
I pulled in all sorts ofnew ideas and material that had never been formalized, because 
hunters need all the combat tools they can get. I converted all of the Numina to a 
“two Basic, two Intermediate, one Advanced” power format (the uneven power 
progressions from early MET books really get on my nerves). I even found time to 
add to the Merits and Flaws section, sneaking in rules on the creation of ghouls, 
Kinfolk and kinain characters with detailed character generation guidelines and 
special powers. (“What the heck,” I figured. “Liber des Goules didn’t have any 
Experience tables or Trait maxima, so I might as well address that.”) 
Frotn the base material by John Wick and Alison Young, I managed to draw out 
a pretty dam good book. I even had a section that allowed games to update to the 
rules in Laws of the Hunt, so that players can avoid oversights from previous editions 
like the famous “I spend Willpower to automatically win the Simple Test for staking 
you, Mr. Vampire Elder.” I wrote in some controlled Military and Espionage 
Influence, talked about the very cool Benandanti and managed some long-awaited 
updates to mass combat, Willpower defense and retesting rules. Not bad for my first 
MET book! 
Then, ofcourse, came editing. The book wound up too long. Some of the powers 
cropped up with problems at the last second. The Dauntain had to go completely 
because there was no room and no time to develop them (don’t worry, they show up 
in a later MET book). 
Miracle of miracles, we managed to push the book to 184 pages (Heaven smiles 
upon our production staff), and it actually got edited and put out on time. The 
response was overwhelming: We brought 96 copies to a convention, and we sold out 
of them in an hour and a half. That’s a copy a minute. Wearing a big goofy grin, I 
signed each one. 
Well! That wasn’t so bad. Pushing up my sleeves, I waded into the next project: 
The Savage West (you’ll have seen it now as Laws of the Wyld West). I also got 
handed the opportunity to start up the Mind’s Eye Journal, and I was looking at 
future releases- a follow-up to Laws of the Hunt, maybe some Kindred of the East 
live-action and even (shudder) live-action Mage. 
Then, the Crash. 
We all knew that the game market had been performing poorly. As a result, 
White Wolf had to reorganize. Several beloved members of the production, 
development, marketing and fiction departments wound up moving on to new jobs. 
All of the development staff was in a frenzy, nobody knew who would get what job 
and the schedule flew into chaos. 
Finally, word came down that the staff had been cut considerably. New 
positions were to be assigned. I waited, barely able to breathe, for news of my new 
position. Phil Brucato, developer of Mage for five years, had left the company, and 
he’d picked me to succeed him! 


After 1 got over the initial shock, it was quite cool. 
So, all in all, I wound up with only acouple ofMET books. I still think that Laws 
of the Hunt is an exceptional piece of work; I enjoyed it a lot and got to rework a 
lot of old MET rules that needed an update. Laws of the Wyld West is chock-full 
of gunfightin’ goodness; my only regret is that the 320-page monstrosity couldn’t 
contain all of the Storytelling advice and setting notes written by the redoubtable 
Peter Woodworth, even after I cut it in size by a third! And, as this article shows, the 
Journal is off to a good start in the competent care of it’s current developer. 
(I paid him to say that. -Carl.) 
The future of Mind’s Eye? That belongs now to Cynthia Summers. Ironically, 
Cynthia was one of the first staffers to work on Mind’s Eye Theatre regularly. I must 
say, Cynthia has her hands full. The Laws of the Hunt Players Guide revisits a lot 
of material from Laws of the Hunt, and it introduces wholly new addenda that 
couldn’t be included the first time around, like the Dauntain. As for the rest of her 
schedule ... I leave that up to her to divulge. I’m the magic man, now, with the battle 
for reality sitting here on my desktop. 
Now that I’m doing Mage, what does that bode for a live-action version of said 
game? Nah. Never happen. After all, there are limits to wh 
Aren’t there? 
T H E  N E w M € T  
DEVELOPER 
SPEAKS 
by Cynthia Summers 
YO. 
Normally I can be found slaving away over a hot computer, but they’ve let me 
slip my chain for a little bit here, in between all the Mind’s Eye Theatre projects. 
What projects, you ask, could possibly keep me so busy that I can’t find time to 
answer every question about live-action rules for a Malkavian-Nuwisha Abomina- 
tion with Chimerstry and faerie blood? Let’s see... 
Kindred of the East -This book was shifted and turned around a little bit from 
its original spot in the schedule (hey, that was your idea, folks, though you don’t 
know why yet), but it’s still on the stove and will be soup in 2000. It’s being written 
by the wondrously talented Peter Woodworth (The Shining Host, Laws of the 
Wyld West). 
The Camarilla Guide -New upper-level Disciplines, how to run a trial conclave, 
exciting uses for the various city posts and all the sorts of the things that make 
Storytellers’ eyes shine (and consequently, makes players tremble...). 
The Sabbat Guide - 
You didn’t think the Cammies were going to have all the 
fun, did you? New antinibu, new Paths of Enlightenment and all those extras to give 
your antagonists that extra edge. 
The Changing Breeds, Book 1 -The title is still in dispute, but it will be what 
it claims to be. This book can’t have everything (unless you want to haul the book 


around on a forklift inside a C-130 cargo plane), but we’re looking at rules for the 
Corax, Nuwisha, Bastet and Ratkin. The other critters will get outings in later books. 
Laws of the Night Revised- 
I’ll tell you about that elsewhere. [Seep. XX, in fact.] 
When I’m not developing the games, I’m playing them - 
I maintain two 
vampires, a Kinfolk, a mortal, a wraith and a nocker among the various games I play. 
I’ve played in independent venues and con games, and I’m a card-carrying member 
of the Camarilla (I’m also the one who gets to read all those Camarilla chapter reports 
-so make ‘em interesting, folks!). When I’m not playing White Wolf games, I help 
plot and run a fantasy-themed LARP local to the Southeast called Shattered Isles. 
Playing these games gives me a perspective on what’s bugging players and 
Storytellers, what are legitimate gripes (or silly twinkery) and what will work (or 
won’t) when I sit down to develop. And that’s why you’re not going to find a picture 
of me here. I not only develop the games, I’m a player, and I find anonymity best 
suited to such pastimes. There is a collection ofpinheads, peahats and other assorted 
small minds who seem to think that rules-lawyering the developer, lecturing her 
mid-game about the viability of their own “positively guaranteed to work” Mage 
live-action system or killing her character gives them bragging rights. Beware, fame- 
seekers - 
I write your kind into the books for the purposes of killing them in new 
and interesting ways. So behave - 
after all, you never know where I may show up. 
I’m the sort of player who believes in the statement, “Rules schmules; gimme 
story!”, and I take much the same approach to MET. I’m aware that rules are 
necessary to keep things running, but I tend to slack off making rules regarding every 
little detail. Hey, it’s your story, after all. I’ll seed the books with story ideas and 
suggestions for all the little peeves I’ve developed over the years (Tremere costuming 
does not include a nylon cape with all the wrinkles still in it), but in the end, it’s all 
to make things colorful for players and rife with juicy details for the Storytellers to 
hang their hats on. I find it far more satisfying (as a player and a Storyteller) to tell 
someone to look for the treasure after I’ve locked him in a haunted house and 
dropped the key down the well. 
As both player and Storyteller, I’m the sort who wages continuous war on the 
lower forms of life that crawl into games occasionally. Having dealt with the press 
and disapproving public up close and personal on various occasions (such as the 
Wendorff case) and endured the reign of terror that a single power player wreaked 
on a chronicle, I want MET to be a game everyone can continue to enjoy. That 
means I’ll do what’s necessary to empower Storytellers to put the smackdown on 
misbehaving players, talk to a curious parent or handle the Weekly World News. 
And in response to that inevitable question, my mother greets news of my work and 
leisure with the same bemusement that Buffy’s mother does when her daughter goes 
out slaying for the night. 
When I’m not LARPing, I’m sewing (which, nine times out of 10, is some 
costume for LARPing), birdwatching, studying Middle Eastern dance, reading, 
cooking, walking or doing something related to my two cats. 
And that is what is worth talking about for now. 
Take care, 
Cynthia Summers 


THF SHADOW COURT 
by Peter Woodworth 
And people say changelings can’t be dark. Have you had enough of the 
bnght, shiny, spnghtly fae? Does the phrase “mercurialpooka trickster” make you 
want to retch? If so, read on. These fae are the scum underneath the bottom of 
the barrel, but worse, they don’t mind that one bit. They revel in their base, 
Unseek nature. Sound like fun? If it does, you’re twisted, vile and sick. 
Welcome, brother! 
NOTICE! 
The following material is restricted to players and Storytellers who wish to include 
the twisted members of the Shadow Court, the true embodiment of all that is Unseelie, 
into their chronicles. All the Dark Arts, Thallain Kith, Unseelie Houses and new 
Backgrounds required to completely flesh out a Shadow Court character are, therefore, 
provided. However, the transformation from a mere Unseelie to a member of the Shadow 
Court is not so easy or so simple as marking a character sheet, and the White Wolf 
sourcebook The Shadow Court for Changeling: The Dreaming should be consulted 
in detail to fully realize the descent into darkness which accompanies the initiation into 
and advancement in this mysterious, ancient organization. In many ways, the Shadow 
Court is the regular Kithain’s equivalent of the Sabbat - 
though that’s a loose similarity, 
at best -- and it should only be created when players are ready and able to attempt the 
radical transition between fantasy and utter nightmare. Again, making a Shadow Court 
character is not as simple as circling the Unseelie Legacy on your character sheet! Players 
are therefore advisednot to planonusing any of this information, or evennecessarily being 
allowed to read it, in any given chronicle, so unless thou be a Storyteller or have consulted 
one first, go ye no further. It should be obvious by now that no characters outside the 
Shadow Court possess any of the following powers or advantages (or are of the Thallain 
kith), and very, very few outside the Shadow Court have more than the tiniest bit of 
knowledge concerning any of the material below. If this wasn’t obvious before, consider 
it obviousnow. Ifyou have obtained such license, however, please, come in, make yourself 
at home, and let the nightmares and revelry begin ... 
THALLAIN 
KITH 
The following changeling types, known as Thallain to the few Unseelie of the 
Shadow Court who know of them, represent degenerate types of some of the standard 
kiths. They are believed to have appeared only after the return ofthe sidhe in 1969, riding 
the same wave from Arcadia, but from the other side of the tracks. They are physically 
indistinguishable from regular members of their “parent” kiths - 
if somewhat disgusting 
- 
but they display very different Birthrights and Frailties. They also tend to express 
shocking thoughts and behavior patterns, even compared to their regular Unseelie 
counterparts. They are thus used by the Shadow Court as secret weapons and closet allies. 
They are assigned to cliques for specific and important reasons and they will not in any case 
be found just wandering around. 
Note: Because they are so tainted by Nightmare, Thallain have no Seelie Legacies, 
and they can never get any. Instead, they have two Unseelie Legacies between which they 
alternate. (The difficulty is deciding what kind of bastard to be.) 
THE 
S H A D O W  C O U R T  


B E A S T I B S  
Like their Kithain pooka counterparts, beasties display animalistic characteristics 
when in their fae miens. Beasties likewise share the pooka’s ability to change into a 
wholly animal form when out of sight. However, the similarity between beasties and 
pooka ends there. Rather than any normal animal, beasties transform into horrible 
creatures that defy description. And yet, these things’ terrifying appearence is but the 
slightest glimmer of the vile, deadly depravity that infests their dark hearts. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Beastie Form: Like pooka, beasties can change into their monster forms while no 
one is looking by spending 10 seconds of game time and a point of Glamour. The beastie 
form, however, does not need to be a real animal; in fact, it’s better if it isn’t. Players are 
encouraged to come up with frightening and bizarre beastie forms, but remember that the 
Storyteller has final say on what is allowed. Also note that even if a beastie can become 
asix-headedsnakedog, thisdoesn’t mean thatall the headscan thinkorattack-themain 
use for the creature’s nightmarish form is to scare the bejesus out of opponents, not 
necessarily increase fundamental utility. Beasties in their animal form receive a free 
Intimidating Trait and two other Traits of the Storyteller’s choosing. They must also take 
Bestial x 2 and two other Negative Traits of the Storyteller’s choosing automatically. 
Gaia’s Mercy: Within one hour of witnessing beastie violence, mortals will 
forget what they have seen, remembering only distorted stories of wild animals. This 
distortion has no effect on Awakened creatures. 
Frailties: 
The Hunt: All Seelie Kithain have an innate hatred of beasties, and they must 
make a self-control check (usually a Static Mental or Social Challenge, with its 
difficulty based on the nature of the scene - 
harder in times of conflict, easier in 
peacetime) to avoid attacking one on sight. If the Static Challenge fails, the character 
may spend a Willpower Trait to avoid attacking, and its effects last for the rest of the 
scene. (The Seelie may, of course, attack later if he wishes.) However, this hatred 
applies only if the Seelie Kithain are somehow aware of the beastie’s true nature. All 
beasties receive a permanent Bestial Trait, which can never be bought off. 
B O ~ ~ A R T S  
Imagine the worst aspects of a conniving thief combined with the cunning of a rat 
and the soulless self-absorption of a 1980s businessman. Now imagine what sucha thing 
would be like if it were Unseelie, and you might have an inkling of what makes up a 
boggart. Sharing the strong boggan work ethic, the boggarts turn a greedy eye toward 
corporate, political or even illicit hierarchies in modern society. Willing to buy, sell or 
use anyone and anything necessary, the boggarts do whatever they have to in order to 
further their own malicious goals. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Industrious Comrades: Boggarts can perform physical labor in 1/3 the time it 
would take normally, as long as they remain unseen. Furthermore, boggarts need only sleep 
two hours per day to remain rested, and as such, they often take two jobs in the mortal 
world. Boggarts receive a free level ofFinance Influence to reflect this doubled income, and 
this Influence can never be traded away permanently. All boggarts have a particular 
business specialty, and they are two Traits up on all Challenges involving this field. (Pick 
the Finance Skill and take a specific field, such as Accounting or Hostile Takeover.) 
Pack Mentality: Boggarts have a knack for sensing others of their kind, and they 
will often try to recruit normal boggans away from their Courts to serve them. They can 
sense an Unseelie boggan with a successful Static Mental Challenge, and a boggart can 


call on his friends and recruit a band of his fellows once per story to alter, improve or 
destroy a given location or situation by spending a Willpower Trait and making some 
calls. It’s up to the Storyteller to decide if and how the other boggarts can help, but the 
results should be devious and destructive, with an eye to the short term. It is assumed 
that, in downtime, the boggart is helping his fellows in a similar manner. 
Frailties: 
Greed: When presented with an unguarded item of wealth, a boggart must make 
a self-control check (see the beastie Frailty: The Hunt) to avoid stealing it. If he fails 
this check, his fingers become sticky, putting him one Trait up on the Challenge to steal 
it but also leaving a telltale sign to characters who know of boggarts. 
Callousness: Boggarts cannot purchase the Social Trait: Empathetic, and they begin 
play with the Negative Social Trait: Callous, which can never be bought off. They do not 
understand any social dynamics outside the corporate setting (though they understand that 
one very, very well), and they should act this out as well as possible. 
BOGIES 
In ultimate disregard for the evolutionary mistake that people represent, bogies 
appear as sad mockeries of human beings. They are often pale and bedraggled or flabby 
and pockmarked. In their fae mien, they resemble the worst depths to which a sluagh 
could fall. However, their feeding habits are even more grotesque than their appear- 
ance. Though not necessary for their survival, most bogies have developed a distinct 
taste for some form of human fluid or secretion (be it sweat, bone marrow or mucus, 
to name a few). It’s rumored that their sluagh cousins hire these Thallain out for 
particularly despicable jobs, but such claims are unconfirmed at present. 
Affinity: Scene 
Birthrights: 
Spawned In Darkness: Once per session/ day, bogies can vomit up a cloud of 
foul, inky blackness, which puts them two Traits up on Challenges related to stealth and 
silence because it disorients foes trapped within it as if they were blind. The cloud moves 
at the bogie’s discretion, about as fast as a human can walk. 
Hatred of the Weaver: Bogies can spend a point of Glamour and become invisible 
to technological devices for one hour of game time. Mundane equipment malfunctions or 
picks up static, and even bright lights flicker on and off. Magically empowered treasures 
or fetishes may resist this Birthright with a Static Mental Challenge against the bogie. 
Frailties: 
Curse of the Weaver: There is an easy way to tell a bogie from a sluagh - 
bind him. 
Bogies cannot contort the way sluagh can, and they lose one Health Level for each hour 
they are so tied, followed by a loss of Physical Traits every half hour. When the character 
loses his last Physical Trait in this manner, he dies. Bogies cannot stand the thought of 
being confined, and they screech and cry and lose a Health Level for each day imprisoned. 
Note: Bogies do not need to whisper, though they can (and often do) in order to 
impersonate regular sluagh. 
GOBLINS 
A riddle describing how to tell a goblin artiste from an Unseelie nocker: 
A: “Knock-knock!” 
B: “Who’s there!” 
A: “Open the door and find out!” 
A: “Uh, okay.” [B turns the doorknob. The doorjamb snaps closed like a toothy 
A: “Woo-ha!’’ 
bear trap, maiming B.] 
T H E  SHADOW C O U R T  
@ 


I
The difference is that goblins have a penchant for creating devices of mayhem and 
destruction out of physical items scrounged from nearby. Whereas Kithain nockers would 
use chimerical means to create their masterpieces, goblins display their (misunderstood) 
genius in whatever medium comes to hand. Such devices (be they exploding, glass-filled 
teddy bears or fishing rods that double as ranged cattle prods) are inherently flawed in 
some way, but that makes them no less dangerous. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 
Mayhem: At the beginning of each story, a goblin can create a device capable of 
unleashing mayhem. Doing so requires a Static Mental Challenge with the Crafts or 
Repair Ability against a difficulty based on the complexity of the device created, the 
extent of the mayhem to becaused, whether it will inflict damage (and, ifso, how much) 
and the amount of time or number of tools put into creating it. The Storyteller should 
always be present at the creation of such a device, not only to determine difficulty but 
also to arbitrate the nature of the creation and its specific powers and requirements. The 
Dreaming often hides such nasties in the guise of bizarre devices no one can figure out 
until the right time is reached. 
Note: Groups of goblins can combine their skills (shudder) on the Static 
Challenge and add one to the total for each extra goblin and for each level of the 
appropriate Ability being used. Note also that goblin devices can never have construc- 
tive results, only destructive ones. 
Gremlin Urge: With the expenditure of apoint of Glamour and a win or tie result 
on a Simple Test, a goblin can touch any mechanical device and cause it to malfunc- 
tion. Self-aware or empowered machines make this test a Social Challenge instead of 
a Simple Test. If someone is holding the item in question and trying to defend it, the 
goblin must also win a Physical Challenge in order to use this power. 
Frailties: 
Destructive Urge: Just like nockers, goblins always create flawed items; however, 
their flaws tend to be much more violent and destructive, and they sometimes even catch 
the goblin in their unexpected results. Storytellers are encouraged to make full use of any 
failed tests when goblins try to create devices, perhaps even convincing the goblin player 
that the machine was created successfully after all ... 


OgaEs 
Ogres are, by nature, the dumbest, meanest and most crude Thallain fae in existence. 
They respect only physical strength, and they have all the social graces of a drunken half- 
wit boor at the end of happy hour. Well, almost all. What makes them useful (other than 
their prodigious strength) is their ability to ferret out Thallain from Kithain and Seelie 
from IJnseelie. What makes them dangerous (aside from the aforementioned strength, 
their extraordinarily deficient mental capacity and their “crush-kill-destroy” mentality - 
as if that weren’t enough) is the fact that they are all but indistinguishable from Kithain 
trolls. Ogres don’t have much of a hand at infiltration, but an unwise Kithain’s first 
mistaken approach to an Ogre (“Noble sir, I seek your aid on a quest for the glory of the 
noble baron, Geldeward N oh, do put me down!”) could well be his last. 
Affinity: Fae 
Rirthrights: 
Smells Like Chicken: Ogres automatically sense the presence of other Thallain 
characters (the Storyteller should alert the player ahead of time as to who will be playing 
Thallain and alert the player immediately if another enters later), and they can tell a Seelie 
from an Unseelie with a successful Simple Test. If they defeat a player in three consecutive 
Simple Tests, they can ask for a very rough overview of that character’s emotional state. 
Strong As Oaks: Ogres receive two free Brawny Physical Traits that can never 
be lost, and they receive a free automatic retest on any Challenge that involves a 
strength-related Trait directly (giving them quite an edge in most combats). 
Frailties: 
Dumb As Rocks: Ogres are never the brightest chaps, and they face severe 
restrictions on brainpower. They cannot choose Mental as their primary Trait category, 
they may not possess more than one Mental Trait pertaining to intelligence and book 
learning at the time of character creation and they buy any such Traits at twice the regular 
cost once play begins. Additionally, they must choose two permanent Negative Mental 
Traits, whichcannever be bought off, from the following list: Ignorant, Oblivious, Violent, 
Shortsighted, Predictable, Gullible or Witless. 
N e w BAC 
~ c j  
R O  u N D s 
Though the Shadow Court doesn’t recognize regular titles, it does have its own 
hierarchy, and many of its agents hold titles in the regular Concordian system, making 
it easier to spy on the Seelie and disrupt their proceedings. Thus, it is very possible to 
possess a high level of the Title Background in the regular court and very little Prestige 
in the Shadow Court or vice versa. The dangers of leading such a double life are obvious 
if the character is caught, but the rewards can be beyond imagining. And if you can’t 
take risks, what are you doing on the dark side anyway? 
PRESTIC~F 
The Shadow Court doesn’t recognize official titles, but it is possible to gain Prestige 
within the court. Trying to hold on to power and responsibility is seenas asking for trouble, 
but stepping down occasionally is seen as a gesture of humility. A courtier probably doesn’t 
know who stands more than one or two levels above her station, but she’d be foolish to 
exploit anyone below her. Prestige does not last longer than one year; if a changeling 
doesn’t get promoted at Samhain, he loses at least one level of Prestige for the next year. 
In fact, the court is always changing, and there’s no guarantee that a changeling can keep 
this status beyond the first few sessions. It is a gocd indicator, however, of the level of 
respect the character commands. Consider it your reputation, for better or worse. 
Prestige x 1: Condemned. You are firmly entrenched in the Shadow Court and 
permitted to learn secrets like the Dark Arts. You have forsaken your former life, even 
given a chance to return. If you do not have this level of the Background when play begins, 
T H E  S H A D O W  C O U R T  
e 


you must be given it by an lnstigator during Samhain to be a member of the court. Until 
then, you are merely running with a clique. 
Prestige x 2: Guardian. Within your territory, you watch over an important location, 
anything from a freehold or glen to a gun store or chemical lab. You keep the various needs of 
local cliques supplied, and in turn, they respect your turf and protect your goods as best they can. 
Prestige x 3: Pretender. You hold a title within the Seelie or Unseelie Court, at least 
that of knight or squire. This title gives you at least one level in the Title Background, as 
well as a possible double life and the risk of being dealt with harshly if you’re caught. 
However, because you’re such a valuable informant, even anarchist cliques tend to leave 
you be, giving you time to gather dirt on those above you as you rise to power in both courts. 
Prestige x 4: Mastermind. Certainly not everyone who plots and schemes has this 
level of Prestige, but changelings who have achieved it have literally made an art out 
of intrigue, and they tend to be visited often by Instigators in need of information. You 
are involved in a secret society of at least five members that trades favors freely. This 
clandestine involvement gives you three free levels of Influence (see Backgrounds) that 
youcanuse (primarily Legalor Finance, but the Storyteller may modify this choice based 
on the type and power of the society). You also receive regular rumor updates, and thus 
the Storyteller usually has a few choice bits of dirt, in the form of gossip and other 
scurrilous sources you know well, for you when you begin a session. 
Prestige x 5: Instigator. You recruit others into the Shadow Court, although you 
cannot condemn them without learning the Advanced Contempt Art of Condemnatim. 
Slowly, you’re learning more about the hidden secrets of the court, and at least two cliques 
brief you regularly on their activities. When you gather at least five Kithain for rituals, the 
difficulty for outsiders to observe and discern the nature of the gathering rises by two (a two- 
Trait penalty on any related Challenges). If captured, you are expected to die rather than 
divulge secrets, and ifyou are unwilling to do so, you will either be rescued or killed quickly 
by your fellows (have a nice afterlife). There are always Instigators more powerful than you, 
as well, who can overrule your authority, and if you begin to act as if you rule the cliques 
that come to you, the backlash can be very nasty. As a function ofstation, you have at least 
two Masterminds working for and beneath you, although they are not your retainers and 
they will not tolerate being treated as such. 
HOUSES 
Although these three Houses are certainly not the only options from which 
Unseelie fae may choose, they are the true Unseelie bloodlines and the only noble 
Houses yet found that lie squarely in the Unseelie camp. Being part of the Shadow 
Court is not necessary for being a member of one of these Houses, but it is strongly 
recommended, particularly for House Ailil and House Balor. Of course, commoners 
who are affiliated with the House do not receive either the Boon or the Flaw of the 
House, just like the Seelie Houses. In no case will a character who is primarily Seelie 
be from one of these families, although it is not impossible for anunseelie of one of these 
Houses to repent and become Seelie later in life. 
H O US E  AILIL 
The sidhe of House Ailil -The House of Honeyed Words and Serpents’ Tongues 
-are 
renowned for their Machiavellian plotting and firm belief in their own inherent 
superiority. They see the time of the Seelie as past, and they believe that only bold, 
decisive (read: their own) leadership can save the Kithain now. They often promise 
commoner equality, but they have no intention of pursuing it if their goals are met. 
Members of this House are known for their dark hair and eyes, their compelling gazes 
and their choice of attire as black as the midnight lords they serve. In no case will a 
member of this House ever be a happy underling of someone else; they’re always 
plotting, and frighteningly well at that. If a member of this House isn’t in the local 


Shadow Court, you can bet she knows who is. Freeholds run by this House rend to be 
hotbeds of intrigue and politics that would make House Eiluned jealous of the intensity. 
Boon: Sidhe of this House are expert manipulators. They receive the Social Trait: 
Beguiling free, and they receive one free retest on all Subterfuge and Leadership Challenges. 
Flaw: Changelings belonging to House Ailil tend to believe too much in their fitness 
to rule, and they will take on tasks based on the belief that the virtue of their bloodline will 
allow them to succeed. They must make a Static Social Challenge to ever admit to doing 
wrong (difficulty depends on how serious the wrong is), even when it is obvious to all. If 
they everbackdown fromasituation inwhich they havespent Influence,Challenged,cast 
cantrips, or otherwise become actively involved, they suffer a one-Trait penalty to all 
Social Challenges until they gain some victory that restores face. They also must take the 
permanent Negative Social Trait: Condescending, which can never be bought off. 
H O U S E  BALOR 
Though others have forgotten, the sidhe of House Balor remember the time when 
sidhe mixed blood with Fomorians back in the Old Country - 
they are the descendants 
of such unions. As such, members of House Balor bear some kind of deformity, be it 
physical, mental, emotional or spiritual, and they bear bitter hatred toward their perfect 
cousins of the other houses. House Balor believes that the Endless Winter is almost here 
and that, if they can bring it on, they will be the ones chosen to lead the others during the 
dark times. This fatalism leads to many Balor becoming anarchists, but the ones who see 
beyond such limited actions become dangerous fanatics with almost animal cunning. 
Changelings of this House also flirt with alliances with such Prodigals as Black Spiral 
DancerGarouand themodernday Fomori, and they delight inplayingwithironandother 
things repulsive to changelings in general. Freeholds ruled by those of House Balor tend 
to be brutal domains in which everyone is out to get their own and keep it safe from the 
encroachments of others, very similar to the domain of wild animals. 
Boon: The sidhe of House Balor do not suffer from Banality’s Curse, the Frailty 
of most sidhe. In fact, they can handle cold iron without suffering any penalties, and 
they lose no Glamour when struck by iron. This Boon allows them to carry and use iron 
weapons without penalties. If slain by iron, however, their soul is just as destroyed as 
any other changeling’s. 
Flaw: All of this House must take some kind of serious deformity or handicap, which 
cannot be rectified through prosthetics, psychological help, cantrips or treasures. Players 
are encouraged to work with the Storyteller to come up with strange and bizarre 
deformities and to think beyond mere physical grossness to the possibilities ofhaving more 
poetic deformities like being born utterly without a conscience. Unlike the namesake of 
the House and his evil eye, however, this deformity gives these changelings no special 
powers. Note: Members of House Balor must take either two permanent Negative Traits 
or a Derangement of some type, which can never be bought off, related to their deformity. 
Ifthedeformity isrepresentedbyanexistingFlaw, they may take the Flaw, but they neither 
receive compensation for it nor can they buy it off. No member of House Balor can have 
a Willpower higher than 4 Traits, for any reason, as aresult of their savage Fomorian blood. 
H O U S E  LEANHAUN 
This House keeps itself a close secret, for the most part, for the regular society of 
Concordia carries a noted dislike for them and their Glamour-hungry ways, which 
sometimes conflict with their powerful need for mortal inspiration. Without Glamour, 
changelings of House Leanhaun age rapidly, growing one year older per week they spend 
without Rhapsodizing someone (see The Shining Host, p. 195, for details on Rhapsody) 
and thus also going from childling to wilder to grump in a painfully short period of time. 
They are noted artists, and some hold positions such as Court Bard in unsuspecting 
courts, but their power at causing mortals to create masterpieces, then die, is kept quite 
T H E  SHADOW C O U R T  


secret from such outsiders. Members of Leanhaun want to he safe from persecution, and 
they feel justified in the damage they do, as it comes from a need to survive. Many of 
them, in the greatest tragedy of all, even come to care for the mortals they doom with 
their touch. Freeholds ruled by this House tend to be places of great art but greater 
tragedy, with many avant-garde forms mixing with traditional works, and the mortals 
tend to be recycled quite often as the house’s infamous Glamour-hunger strikes. 
Boon: All members of House Leanhaun receive the Social Trait: Seductive, 
which can never be permanently lost, for free, and they are two Traits up on any 
Challenge during which they bid a Trait related to appearance or sex appeal. Flaw: 
Leanhaun age at a rate of one year per week unless they engage in Rhapsody at least 
once during each week. This aging can be reversed and make the sidhe young again, 
but only with greater and greater infusions of Glamour, which do more and more harm 
to the mortal being Rhapsodized. They also do not age gracefully and must take a 
Negative Physical Trait), which can only be bought off by changing back to a younger 
state, each time they change seemings (childling, wilder, grump). 
DARK 
ARTS 
The following powers are Arts known only by members of the Shadow Court; 
although some have toyed with the idea of allowing outsiders to learncontempt as a way 
of undermining the sidhe nobility, no one is allowed to take this debate past the realm of 
theory yet. After all, these Arts are the result of 600 years of secrecy and practice, and the 
Shadow Court is in no hurry to lose its edge now with a hasty gamble. 
CONTEMPT 
Though Unseelie nobles have been known to use the Sovereign Art, some have 
chosen instead to counter it using their knowledge of the Art ofcontempt. Commoners 
have also found it very useful when avoiding the dictates of the fascist Seelie sidhe, and 
it is true that this Art counters the effects of Sovereign on almost a one-for-one basis 
(with the exception of Weaver Ward, which is countered by Wayfare instead), which 
causes rulers no end of frustration. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Art Note: Though many uses of this Art invoke feelings ofbitter resentment and even 
violence against traditional authority, players must still respect the rules of live-action and 
not actually harm anyone or anything - 
the “no touch” rule applies to one and all, even 
(especially) municipal buildings or classrooms that may be the targets of Contempt. In 
addition, unless the game is taking place in private, where everyone knows what’s going on, 
remember to keep your voices low and your language clean enough to avoid being given a 
ticket or the boot from your locale. Finally, no use of Contempt can ever make the players 
revolt out of character against the Storyteller (nice try, guys)! 
Basic 
Mockery: This Art allows a changeling to directly avert the effects of Protocol from either 
herself or others, as the Realms used dictate. Once the Protocol is about to finish its casting, the 
character casting Mockery must engage in a Mental Challenge with the person casting Protocol 
in addition to performing a Bunk - 
success indicates immunity to the effects for the duration 
of the proceedings. The caster is considered anumber ofTraits up equal to the level ofthe Bunk. 
Note that the person Challenged will not necessarily know who is attempting Mockery unless 
the Bunk performed is so obvious that they can put one and one together right away. This Art 
allows for a wide range of normally unacceptable behavior on the part of the changeling, from 
immediate duels to grandstanding and interrupting the monarch. However, most fae will not 
see anything odd in this, as the caster, after all, is almost always publicly Unseelie anyway. If 
Mockery is cast without intent to counter Protocol, it becomes instead a twisted version of said 
magic, allowing for a barbarian court of Unseelie law. Essentially, the ruler is allowed martial 
law over the changelings present, including Seelie fae and other bystanders. 


Realms: You have many different choices when deciding how to disrupt or ent’orce 
your own court. Note that a fae can only attempt one of these cantrips at the beginning 
of the proceedings; any later and the cantrip will fail. 
Disobedience: An individual affected by this cantrip will show flagrant disregard for 
authority for the remainder of the scene. It will not cause anyone affected to assault authority 
figures physically, but it may result in acts of violence if the individual feels that he is being 
put down by the Man, so to speak. Once this cantrip has been cast, logical arguments seem 
hollow, and warnings or dictums against certain behavior seem offensive. Because so many 
people in the modem world harbor such resentment, the target may only cancel the effect 
with a Willpower Trait if this cantrip is successfully cast. If a noble is nearby, this cantrip may 
be used to counteract the Basic Sovereign power, Dictum- the character must take his target 
aside and give her a few choice words of encouragement about her rights (roleplay this out 
to the fullest), followed by the casting of the cantrip. The level of the Bunk used in the casting 
is added to the target’s Traits for the purposes of resisting Dictum, and this power allows the 
target to spend Willpower to ignore the effects of Dictum even if she would not be allowed 
to do so normally. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this cantrip may be used to counter powers 
of Prodigals (vampiric Presence or certain Garou Gifts, for example) in a similar fashion. 
Realms: Actor and Fue are most useful, but inventive revolutionaries can find ways 
to utilize the other three. 
Intermediate 
Insolence: Insolence can be used to inspire large groups of people to riot. This 
power is useful when emotions are already hot and heavy (like raves, rock concerts and 
lynchings). For each level of Bunk used, one person can be goaded into attacking 
someone or something else (unfortunately, you can’t decide exactly what the target will 
be!). Anyone targeted can spend a Willpower Trait to enter into a Mental Challenge 
with the caster (no Traits risked) to avoid these effects. This cantrip can also be used 
to negate the Sovereign power ofGrandeur. Only one Shadow Court fae can attempt this 
per scene, however, and if he fails, you’re all screwed. If used to counteract Grandeur, 
the fae must make some remark or take some action that would detract from the 
seriousness of the noble’s power, then cast the cantrip. Each Bunk Trait gained allows 
one person present to make a Simple Test against the user of Grandeur, with success 
meaning that the target is immune to all uses of Grandeur for the rest of the session. 
Realms: Determines who will riot or what will be rioted against by the affected parties. 
Devil’s Advocate: A fae using this magic can convince a crowd of just about 
anything for one scene, after which the affected parties may realize what has happened 
to them (though only Awakened beings will realize that anything 
occurred). Instead of a normal Bunk, however, the character must make a speech 
explaining the position he wants the crowd to take. After that, the fae must spend a 
Willpower Trait and make a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty equal to one for 
every two people he wishes to affect. This limit can be made one per every three with the 
expenditure of an additional Willpower Trait. If the changeling is successful, the crowd 
can be convincedof almost anything the character desires, and it will remain so convinced 
for one hour of game time. This magic may also be used to counter aGem cantrip cast by 
a noble. If the Unseelie is present at such a casting, he may use this Art (once again, with 
a speech about why the Gem should be reconsidered) to try to make the noble reconsider. 
Doing so doesn’t absolutely cancel a Gem, but it does at least buy time. 
Realms: Actor and Fae are the only way to use the first part of this magic. 
Advanced 
Condemnation: This magic is the unholy ritual of the Shadow Court, and it is always 
used in elaborate ceremony, as it defines an individual’s prestige in the Court. At Samhain, 
only a few people, called Instigators, are considered worthy of learning this magic. Many of 
these ceremonies are protected by the Mists, and even some of the participants will forget 
T H E  S H A D O W  C O U R T  


much ofwhat occurs, remembering only in their subconscious minds what they are and what 
they have to do. This power can also be used at other times of the year to recognize a clique, 
cast someone from the Court or recognize someone’s worthiness to learn the Dark Arts. The 
person using the cantrip in this fashion always wears some sort of mystical disguise. 
Characters to be Condemned for the first time must renounce all former ties, perhaps even 
oaths, and give themselves fully to their Unseelie sides. There is no coming back. 
Realms: Determines who is affected by the ritual or its protective Mists. 
DELUSION 
The Mists themselves have been usefull allies of the Shadow Court. Unseelie 
changelings hide in a fog of doubts and uncertainties, of half-truths and insecurities. 
Perhaps the world recognizes that there must be a balance to all things and that the great 
evil of the Shadow Court would tip the already suffering world completely out ofbalance. 
Type of Challenge: Social 
Basic 
Innocence: Hiding secrets and faces is a valuable ability, and this Art allows the Shadow 
Court to plant agents with secrets foul and hideous among their ever-trusting Seelie brethren. 
The simplest way to keep a secret, of course, is to act like you have no knowledge of it 
whatsoever. This Dark Art masks any outward signs of recognition regarding one particular 
topic or secret, making it extremely difficult for others to pry this secret from the character or 
even detect that he has it. The way it works is quite simple - 
on all Challenges related to 
keeping the secret, the character is up a number ofTraits equal to the number of Bunk Traits 
gained in the cantrip casting. Thus, if someone is using a SdmjLge Challenge to try to break 
your character with interrogation, and you cast a three Bunk Trait Innocence cantrip, you are 
up three Traits on the Social Test required for the interrogation. This effect lasts for one day 
or night, and it must be renewed each interval to be effective. Note: The aura of a character 
using this Art appears innocent to characters using Aura Perception and similar powers. 
Facade: This Dark Art allows the changeling to adopt a very effective disguise for a period 
of time, although her actual body doesn’t change, merely others’ perception of it. You must 
perform a Bunk related to changing your appearance (like wearing a mask, donning makeup or 
changing clothes), then spend a Glamour Trait. The result is a disguise that lasts for one hour. 
This time may be extended by expending an additional Glamour Trait per hour, but no more 
Glamour Traits may be spent this way than the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting the 
cantrip. If the disguise isn’t exceptionally hard to maintain (ooh, a video store clerk) or doesn’t 
encounter much strenuous activity, this time can be lengthened to one day per Glamour Trait, 
but at the Storyteller’s discretion only. This disguise cannot be broken by powers like Heightened 
Senses (because it fools witnesses’ minds, not their physical perceptions); only someone who is 
actively suspicious of you for some reason or another may attempt to pierce the disguise, and he 
must defeat you in a Challenge of his Mental Traits against your Social Traits. No matter what, 
you can never adopt the same Facade twice. Other Realms may be used in connection to this 
cantrip as the caster sees fit. Using the Prop Realm might mean the disguise lasts as long as the 
character holds a particular item, whereas Scene would dictate where the disguise can be adopted. 
Intermediate 
Mists of Memory: The Mists are not always as objective as the Seelie would like 
them to be. A disreputable fae may manipulate the Mists to cloud the minds of others 
and banish specific memories, but this Dark Art can never overcome certain things like 
the loyalty of a troll, the chivalry of asidhe, an oath, a geas or true love. The caster must 
engage the target in a Social Challenge that, if successful, allows her to remove a broad 
area of memory determined by the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting, as 
determined by the following scale: 
1 Trait: memory of what was said in the last 15 minutes 
2 Traits: all memory of what happened in the last 15 minutes 


I 
I 
I 
3 Traits: memory of what happened in the last hour 
4 Traits: memory of what happened in the last session or day 
5+ Traits: any one memory, completely. 
The Realm used in casting determines who is affected or what the memory concerns. 
The Depths of Will: Although difficult to enact, this Dark Art can convince one 
willing listener to undertake an enterprise that is not directly harmful to him and then 
forget about that activity afterward. (“You must take this to the duke. It’s important.”) 
In addition to any other Bunk used, the cantrip must include an explanation of why the 
activity is important (this does not need to be true, but it must be believable), which 
takes at least five minutes of game time. If the listener is still willing, he must do it; if 
he wishes to resist, he must spend a Willpower Trait to do so. Once the activity is 
performed, the Mists erase all memory of it from the target’s mind (like vampiric 
Mesmerism from Laws of the Night). 
Advanced 
The Darkest Heart: This power is as serious as Geas, and it is not undertaken lightly. 
Some undertake it of their own free will, whereas others (like weak Seelie) are condemned and 
forced into it. When a changeling performs an act, willingly or otherwise, that she later regrets, 
she may come to terms with it by going on a quest, which hides the act in the darkest depths of 
herheart.Shecannotspeakofitunti1 thequest isover, andthememoryishiddenuntilthenext 
Samhaii comes around. The fae gives herself totally to her Unseelie nature, but she will retain 
the memories, though hidden, of the incident that drives the quest, and they cannot be taken 
away by any means. Ifshe repeats the sin, wittingly or not, for which she was questing, she gains 
a p e m e n t  Banality Trait and the quest is over. As long as she doesn’t violate that restriction, 
she may confess to an Instigator at the end of the year. Until that time, she is under a Ban on 
a paaicular Realm. If she succeeds at going the year without breaking her Ban or repeating her 
sin and then confesses to an Instigator, she will lose a permanent pint of Banality as the guilt 
rises from her heart and she is forgiven. This is an epic journey, even if it is one into darkness, 
and it should be treated accordingly. The Ban a character suffers must be related to a particular 
Realm that has some relation to her quest, and it should be fairly difficult to uphold: for example, 
a lecherous fae seekmg to undo the damage done by a heartless nyst might be under an Actor Ban 
not to associate with members of the opposite sex. 
T H E  S H A D O W  COURT 


CORRALLINCj P R O B L F M  
by Charles Bailey 
If you keep up with Rich Dansky’s “Deudguy Speaks” 
column, you’ll likely note that his piece in the June issue 
of the Journal and this article are rather similar. 
That’s no accident. Whereas Rich raises the 
interesting (and humorous) quesnon of who 
these people are and how to identify them, it can 
be difficult sometimes to know exactly how to 
deal with these problem players How do you 
keep a person who’s only trying to have a good 
time from raining on the other players’ parade? 
Making sure everyone enjoys himself can be a tncky 
situation, so Charles (another long-time LARP en- 
thusiast who work for White Wolf) steps up with 
article to gwe some suggestions on how it’s done. 
Everyone has a story about someone who made his playing or Storytelling 
experience anything from a boring snooze to a hellish nightmare. Sensing a subject 
for the MET Journal, I’ve been taking notes on the different types ofproblem players 
my friends and fellow garners have encountered, with an eye toward how to mitigate 
their negative (if unintentional) influence. After many cups of coffee, these 
categories made the best of the worst. 
COMBAT 
MONSTER 
a.k.a. Twink, C ~ ~ ~ S U W ,  
Point-&-Click 
The Combat Monster tends to be the by far most common type of problem player. 
The typical goal of a Combat Monster is to build the strongest, fastest and most 
invulnerable character in the chronicle. In his world, problems are best solved in a flurry 
of Celerity and Potence; he has little time for political maneuvering. If left unchecked, 
the Combat Monster can turn a chronicle into the monster of the week special. 
This is not to say that all characters with Physical Traits primary are Combat 
Monsters; most are not. The distinction lies in how the player portrays his character. 
If he tends to run roughshod over other players and Storytellers just for the thrill of 
crushing, breaking and stomping anything in his path, chances are he’s a Combat 
Monster. If you look into the world of a physical character’s motivation and find a 
vast, arid desert, those chances get even better. 
There are several ways to handle a Combat Monster. The easiest one is to create 
opponents who can beat him at the physical game. Doing so has the advantage of 
showing the player’s character that there are things in the World of Darkness that 
can defeat even him; however, it tendsnot to teach him (or his player) anything. The 
Tougher Bad Guys tactic usually backfires when the player decides that he needs to 
beefup his character’s Disciplines or Abilities to defeat this new threat. You’re then 
left with a virtual arms race that has the potential to lay waste to the chronicle’s plot 
(and its characters). 


Anoi.her way to control on the Combat Monster is to find a way to pair him with 
a Storyteller character who is primarily a social or political figure. Typically, this 
trick takes the form of making the physical character a bodyguard for the Storyteller 
character (“I heard you’re the baddest SOB this side of the international date line; 
I need somebody like that in my organization.”), but it’s not the only way. Suggesting 
that he be moved into a position of law enforcement within the game could easily 
pair him with investigators and judges working to uphold the laws of their society, 
for instance. This pairing tends to give Combat Monsters interaction with other 
players without undercutting the player’s usefulness as a physical powerhouse. 
Finally, a Storyteller can present the Combat Monster with problems that 
cannot be solved by brute force alone. Making him the target of a mysterious agency 
with a hidden motive (like a cult, a government operation or a criminal ring) that 
makes its moves from the shadows, for instance, forces the Twink to examine the 
situation, determine why he’s such a star all of a sudden and possibly seek out 
assistance from other, less physically intensive characters. Again, this sort of idea 
redirects the Combat Monster’s enthusiasm and keeps the player happy while 
allowing you to refrain from tossing bad guy after bad guy mindlessly into the 
chipper-shredder that is his character. 
RULES LAWYER 
a.k.a. Poindexter, Page Slave, Windbag 
Everyone who’s played live-action games (or any sort of roleplaying game) more 
than a few times knows a Rules Lawyer. This is the guy who seems to have memorized 
every line in the rule book (any rule book) and is quite happy to point this fact out 
when challenged on a call. He will tell anyone who cares to listen (or who is awake) 
that he understands the letter of the rules and that, if you do not accept his 
interpretation, you must be mistaken and should reread the rules until you come 
around. This type of player believes 
that the most important aspect of the 
game is strict adherence to the rules. 
The rules are control. The rules are 
power. All hail the rules! 
For players, the problem with the 
Rules Lawyer is that he might give 
rulings that run counter to house ex- 
ceptions and corollary changes the 
Storytellers have made to the specific 
chronicle’s rules. Though it’s all well 
and good to have a single source of 
reference for any game you might go to 
(like Laws of the Night, for instance), 
expecting every Mind’s Eye Theatre 
chronicle to function by the letter of 
the rules is incredibly idealistic at best. 
One way to avoid this particular 
problem is to provide players with a 
written set of house rules to cover any 
areas that differ from the standard 


Mind’s Eye Theatre rules. Doing so helps cut down on misunderstandings, and it at 
least gives Rules Lawyers the right rules to pore over. 
The other problem Rules Lawyers cause is simple social annoyance. Nobody 
wants to have a fellow gamer breathing down his neck, making sure his actions 
adhere to what’s written on page XX of a book that’s been out of print since time 
untold. Though the Journal isn’t exactly a resource for dealing with annoying 
personalities, a helpful bit of advice in dealing with such a person is that it’s 
important to remember that even a Rules Lawyer has his positive side -namely, he 
knows his stuff. Therefore, this player can actually be an asset to the Storytellers. If 
he shows that he understands the house rules and can be trusted not to make calls 
that run counter to them, ask him to assist you in the role of a Narrator. That is, 
promote him so he’s not causing trouble at the grass-roots level and get him on your 
side. In doing so, you gain someone who understands the rules and can make the 
game run more smoothly, and the player gets to demonstrate his grasp of the rules 
by helping to run scenes and challenges. 
a.k.a. Knowitall, Guru, Oracle 
LOREMASTEE 
Whereas the Rules Lawyer seems to know the rules, the complete rules and 
nothing but the rules, the Loremaster seems to know everything about the setting 
of the World of Darkness, regardless of whether his character knows anything. This 
person has probably bought every item ever published by White Wolf (even 
Inphobia), and he is not afraid to let his character use any knowledge contained 
therein. His character seems to be able to spout off details about creatures, events or 
Abilities that he has never come across in the course of your chronicle and about 
which his character history would have revealed nothing. (Alternatively, he could 
have an impossibly outlandish charac- 
ter history in which the great secrets of 
the World of Darkness were revealed 
to him. You know that Gangrel in your 
chronicle who knows all about the 
Black Spiral Dancers, Fomori and Banes 
Just because he “ran with the Garou for 
years” before coming to your town? 
That character is probably played by a 
Loremaster.) 
This player presents a problem for 
any Storyteller who wishes to add a bit 
of mystery to a chronicle. Let’s face it: 
There is nothing worse than introduc- 
ing a mystery element (like a True 
Brujah or Siberakh) and havingachar- 
acter know all about it as soon as it 
comes into play. 
For the players, the Loremaster 
ruins the game’s atmosphere and ten- 
sion because he robs them of the 
challenge of finding clues and solving 


mysteries during play. How? The Loremaster already knows the answer, and his 
character shares. Loudly. 
The easiest way to handle this problem is to establish a system of Lore levels (as 
Jess Heinig has done on page XX of this issue of the Journal) and hold characters to 
the amount ofknowledge eachlevel. Thus, if the Loremaster’scharacter does not have 
the appropriate Lore, the character cannot utilize the player’s out of game knowledge. 
An interesting way to handle this problem in game is to assign negative Status 
Traits (like Insane) to characters who spouts such unfounded information. If this 
behavior continues despite the Trait penalty, nothing teaches a loud-mouth 
Loremaster to keep his “insights” to himself more effectively than having angry 
representatives of the group whose secrets the character is spreading come calling. 
M I N - M A X E R  
a.k.a. Calculator, Twink v. 2.0 
No matter what name this player goes by, the theory is the same - 
get the most 
bang for the smallest Experience buck. She believes that the stats on her sheet are 
the true measure of her character’s growth, usefulness or longevity. If she spent half 
as much time fleshing out a history as she did with coming up with her stats, she 
would have a well-rounded character, one she’d probably have loads more fun 
playing and developing. Although the Min-Maxer’s preferred M.O. mimics the 
Combat Monster - 
“I need lots of Potence and Cekrity so 1 can do my Malkavian 
pranks without fear” -you will also find such such derivatives as the Tremere Giga- 
Ritualist, the Toreador Majesty Maven and the (ever-popular) Former Gangrel 
Ghoul Recently Embraced by Clan Tremere. 
Players may have some problems dealing with Min-Maxers on the roleplaying 
level because of the Min-Maxer’s lack of character depth. There are few things worse 
than trying to roleplay with a person who cannot tell you anything about her 
character other than what Abilities she has or how many Traits she can bid. 
Storytellers also tend to have problems building plots for the Min-Maxer. It is 
difficult to create gripping, meaningful situations for a character who does not have 
any sort of a past or any discernible motivations. The Storyteller can help the player 
flesh out the character at character creation by requiring some sort of history or 
offering to help the player develop some goals for the character. 
T H E  
E U D ~ E R  
a.k.a. The Hedger, The Liar 
Oh, yes - 
the Fudger. This player always seems to have the right trait or skill 
for the job, even if it’s not on his character sheet. Fudger is a kind nickname for this 
type of player; in most arenas he would be called a cheater. 
Honest players suffer at the hands of this problem player when they make 
Challenges because they will take the Fudger at his word about the skills he possesses. 
After all, it’s insulting to ask a fellow player to whip out his character sheet just 
because he seems to be bidding better than you. The Fudger’s usual target is a newbie, 
because more experienced players tend to recognize when he is fudging. 
This type of problem player is the one which the Storyteller should be the most 
strict. MET is a game system built on trust, and the Fudger violates that trust, 
damaging the game for everyone involved. Take care in handling this type of player; 
react too harshly, and you’ll lose a player (after all, most Fudgers either fudge by 
accident or out of a misguided desire to avoid breaking the flow of the story). React 


too leniently, however, and your chronicle tumbles out of control. In confronting 
a Fudger (or any problem player, really), remain calm, present the problem fairly and 
give him the benefit of the doubt, but make it clear that further incidents of that 
nature will be dealt with severely. 
CLIQUE 
CLONES 
a.k.a. Replicants, Thelust-Us League 
Whereas most problem players are individuals, this type is a group. Clique 
Clones tend to design characters that depend upon the pack mentality and sheer 
numbers to accomplish their goals. Such a concept is not a problem in itself- it can 
even be an asset if the group works within the system to further the story - 
things 
tend to get ugly if the group decides to work against other players or the flow of the 
game for its own purposes. Rampant Clique Clones are the main ingredients in a 
recipe for disaster - one that can turn an Elysium into a war zone. 
Storytellers should use their power to veto character concepts to control this 
type of problem. If you have players who insist on linking concepts and histories and 
have the potential to be Clique Clones, take extra caution in reviewing the 
characters. Help them develop their personal idiosyncrasies and motivations, and 
take full advantage ofany loopholes in their linked histories. Such loopholes include 
common enemies, rivalries between members of the clique and exploiting the group 
mentality by holding the entire group responsible for the indiscretion of a single 
member. By their very nature, Clique Clones will take up a good bit of a Storyteller’s 
time, as it’s likely that they’ll encounter the majority of the plot hooks that are 
presented during a game. A wise Storyteller will realize this fact and try to ensure that 
players outside the clique have enough to do. 
REVENGERS 
a.k.a. Inigo Montoyas, O’Barrs 
So you lost your last character and you wanna take out the guy who did it, eh? 
Do you a.) work with friendly Storytellers to use your old contacts to eliminate the 
culprit, b.) start humming Que sera, sera and get a new character concept or c.) Make 
a character who is the brother, sire or lover of your old character and take the SOB 
out yourself? Unless you chose B, welcome to your new incarnation as a Revenger. 
Revengers cause problems because they tend to have only one goal in their 
character concept: the destruction of an offending character. When and if he 
accomplishes this goal, the Revenger often becomes one-dimensional and with- 
drawn from the chronicle. 
The Storyteller’s best option is to veto this type of character concept unless 
there is a story-related reason for the concept - 
a damn good one that would have 
existed before the original character’s death became an issue. Even in such a case, 
you might suggest that the revenge plot be handled from the Storyteller side by a 
Storyteller character played by a Narrator. This plot thread can be used to demon- 
strate the fact that actions in the World of Darkness have consequences, while at the 
same time heading off problems with player on player revenge at the same time. 
Otherwise, frankly, sometimes it’s okay to tell a sour player (one who’s likely to 
turn into a Revenger, that is) that his character died and that he should just get over 
it. Welcome to Darwin’s world, whiner. 
(Just be nice about it.) 


R E B E L  
W I T H O U T A  C L U E  
e 
a k.a. Freak of the Week, Plot Bomb 
There are several types of Rebels. The 
first, the Freak of the Week, wants to play 
the Tremere Anarch, the Ronin Get of 
Fenrts or the Renegade Assamite (to name 
a few choice concepts) not because it is an 
I interesting concept but because it sounds 
cool. He wants toplay something outside the 
established norm, but he may not be as 
accustomed to the downside of playing this 
character type and may not understand why 
his character is being targeted for destruc- 
tion by the Tremere or the Assamites (for 
instance). The Freak of the Week can nor- 
mally be educated by a Storyteller or fellow 
player about why he might not want to 
pursue his concept lightly. A good starting 
point here is to give the player a copy of the 
clan/tribe/kith book so he understands the 
I I  
problems with the concept. This can save a 
player some trouble down the road. 
One thing that should be made clear to the Rebel is that actions have 
consequences. A rogue Tremere apprentice who spreads clan secrets to the entire 
known world because he doesn’t like his superiors’ orders or a Brujah neonate who 
mouths off constantly to an elder may sound like an interesting concept at first. 
However, when the archon comes to call or the elder puts the neonate in torpor, the 
player needs to realize that his actions caused the reaction. 
The more problematic Rebel is the one who has issues with authority figures in 
real life and transfers these issues to the game. Examples of this type of character are 
the ones who gossip about the Storyteller’s ability to be fair and impartial in her 
rulings, attempt to actively undermine the authority of the Storyteller or whine 
about her decisions even if they are fair. 
When dealing with this type of Rebel, it is important to remain impartial and 
calm. Losing your temper will just give a Rebel fuel for his gossip. 
The last type of Rebel is the Plot Bomb. This person’s main goal in the chronicle 
is to break the plot and to wreak as much havoc as he can in doing so. This Rebel is 
the worst by far, as he will go to any length to make the game unpleasant for the players 
while he searches for a way to break it. This type of Rebel appears most frequently in 
one-shot or convention games in which his actions have no real consequences other 
than ruining others’ enjoyment of the game. There are few ways to deal with a Plot 
Bomb rationally because he does not usually have a logical reason for his behavior. 
Your best bet is to ask him to stop, then, if he doesn’t, ask him to leave. 
T H E  BROKEN 
RECORD 
a.k.a. Reiterators, Version 2.0 
I 
CORRALLING D R O B L E M  DLAYERS 


“Billy, my Brujah, learned Thamaturgy from a Tremere he saved. I have this 
great idea for a new character: Glen, a Gangrel who learned Thamaturgy from a 
Tremere he saved when he ...” 
The Broken Record’s character concept, Abilities and goals may have worked 
the first time around, but after four incarnations of the same character with a 
different name each time, things tend to get predictable. Though this situation is not 
necessarily a problem, it does cry out for someone to help this poor soul get a clue. 
The main problem with a Broken Record is that his new character is indistin- 
guishable from its previous incarnations, and, as such, it adds nothing to the 
chronicle. 
One key to stopping a Broken Record is another player or Storyteller who will 
take the time to sit down and discuss more original (i.e., different) concepts. 
However, the best way to break a Broken Record of his habit is to let him continue 
to make the same mistakes until he gets a clue and changes his tune. 
CAPTAIN 
LOOSE- LIPS 
a.k.a. Grapevine, Babbler 
Captain Loose-Lips will tell you anything you want to hear about what his 
character is up to and many things that you don’t. If you try to use the information 
against him during the course of the game, though, he will complain that he told you 
only out of character. Your character didn’t know that; you were only having an out 
of game conversation, after all -. The line between player and character can get 
blurry and confusing; worse yet, it gets annoying. 
Captain Loose-Lips also has a counterpart known as the Grapevine. This 
person takes information he gained out of game and use it to his advantage in game, 
normally by passing it to someone who does not know the source of the information 
and thus can’t call him on it. 
Either of these problem players is an annoyance to the rest of the players because 
they can never be sure if the information Captain Loose-Lips or the Grapevine gave 
them was in game or out ofgame. Confusion like this blows continuity to bits. Asking 
players to keep from discussing their characters out of game can avoid crossing the 
blurry line, but how many players can really stand to keep all of their best-laid plans 
a secret? Alternatively, you can make it clear that any information given to your 
character by any means (aside from reading the sourcebooks) will be considered 
information that’s been garnered in game. This step is usually an effective means of 
curtailing Captain Loose-Lips. 
If the Grapevine leaks plot information (or other sensitive information), 
however, the Storyteller should address the situation with extreme prejudice. Take 
care in finding the source of the Grapevine, but once it has been found, consider 
deducting experience or suspension if the leak was intentional. A carefully chosen 
example or two will usually shut down problems of this type. 
C LO s I N q WORD 
s 
As you can see, problem players come in many shapes and sizes. Each causes 
different problems for players and Storytellers. However, if you take the time to 
understand the problem and work around it, there is a good chance that a problem 
player can be turned into a productive member of your LARP troupe. In fact, you’ll 


often find that choices that turn happy players into problem players usually spring 
from a desire to be productive members in the first place. The most important thing 
to remember when dealing with problem players is that all players are out to have fun, 
and most of them aren’t there to spoil anyone else’s fun. Keep your cool and address 
situations brought up by problem players from a standpoint of doing what’s best for 
the game at large. In most cases, problem players (regardless of type) will come 
around after the first or second such intervention. 
But if they don’t - 
if they seem carelessly or even maliciously intent on causing 
problems, the game be damned - 
well, you do have a room full of friends and 
acquaintances there backing you up, right? Nothing says ‘conform’ like 20 annoyed, 
like-minded people in trench coats who’ve been practicing making fists all night.. .. 
I would like to thank the following people for their input for this article: Glas 
Durbarow, Nash Bozard, Stacy Whisenant and the players and Storytellers of the Black 
Dog chapter of the Camarilla for the storks and recommendations presented here. 
-
.
- ~
.


VAMPIRE 
LORE 
Doctor Alberton looked upfrom his dusty volume ofEuropean history as Charles 
came scnding into the room, backlighted by the setting sun that peered through the Doctor’s 
window. Charles’ trenchcoat bulged in warious places, and the Doctor could just barely 
make out the gleam of a golden cross peeking above the nylon bandolier of garlic bulbs 
Charles had strupped across his chest. The doctor tried not to sigh. 
“I think I’we tracked the bloodsucker to his lair, Doctor,” Charles said, looming over 
the aging Doctor, ewen across his desk. “I’m going after him tonight.” 
“Do you hawe garlic?” the Doctor asked. 
“Yes,” Charb said, patting the bandolier. 
“Hawe you a mirror to confirm your suspicions of the kilkr’s nature?” 
“In my pocket.” 
“And Holy Water?” 
“That, and I hawe a wan ready to take the beast to the East river.” 
“Why the riwer?” the Doctor asked. 
“To throw the vampire in after I’ve knocked him out with the garlic fumes,” Charles 
beamed, clearlyprowlofhis o w  ingenuity. “Runningwaterdissolves vampireflesh, right?” 
The Doctor pinched the bridge of his nose beneath the divots made bj his ghses. “Sit 
down, Charles,” he sighed. “You’re notready togo traipsingoffafter this thingin the Village 
just yet. ” 
The hidden world of vampires brims with intrigue and secrecy. As a result, few 
besides the unliving claim any knowledge of the true nature of vampires. With 
Vampire Lore, however, you have discovered some of the legends of vampires, and 
you may be aware of some of their secrets, powers and capabilities. Without this 
Ability, you may not even be aware that vampires exist. 
Actual vampires (aside from those abandoned or misinformed by their sires) are 
assumed to possess the equivalent of all levels of this Lore. Characters with full 
mastery of this Lore (five levels) can discern the deeper secrets of vampires with 
Cainite Lore (sometimes called Kindred Lore erroneously, though the term “Kindred” 
refers only to Camarilla vampires), which deals with the legends of the undead 


themselves. More unusual forms of vampires might require specialized Abilities as 
determined by the Storyteller ( such ascathayan Lore). 
VAMPIRE 
LOREX I 
You know that vampires are real. Sunlight, silver, fire, wooden stakes through 
the heart and holy symbols are said to injure them, and the unliving may not 
approach a bearer of the cross. Garlic wards against vampires, vampires may not cross 
running water (which disintegrates them if they are immersed in it), and they may 
not enter a domicile uninvited. Vampires cannot cross holy ground. They may not 
cast reflections. Vampires must sleep during the day in a coffin lined with fresh grave 
earth. You know that all vampires are unusually pale and thin, and they often have 
claws or glowing eyes in addition to fangs. 
You believe that most vampires are stronger and faster than humans, and they 
can control minds, change into bestial forms and see or hear things that humans 
cannot sense. People who are bitten by vampires become vampires themselves, as 
may some people who are buried without proper rites and who were sinners in life. 
I 
A vamDire must have its head cut off and its mouth filled with holv wafers or parlic 
if it is to be killed permanently, or else it must die from exposure to sunlight or 
running water. 
VAMPIRE 
J ~ R E X  
2 
Sunlight and fire can kill vampires, and crosses, silver and wooden stakes can 
injure them, though these last may not kill them. Vampires dislike garlic but it does 
not hurt them. Running water has no adverse effect upon them, but they cannot 
cross it. A strongly presented cross can force a vampire to stay back, but only for a 
short time. Vampires cannot tread on holy ground or enter churches uninvited. A 
vampire must sleep during the day, usually in a coffin or crypt. You know that 
vampires are pale and often thin, and they have fangs, while a few may have glowing 
eyes or claws (although these are usually only evident if the vampire is enraged). 
You know that vampires are stronger and hardier than humans, and are 
sometimes faster, though not always. All vampires can heal wounds rapidly, so most 
mortal injuries do not slow them overmuch. Most vampires have some ability to 
influence minds or emotions in some form. People bitten by vampires may not 
become vampires themselves, but such victims do die. A vampire, once beaten, can 
be slain only if it’s decapitated. 
VAMPIRE 
LORE x 3 
You know that fire and sunlight can injure vampires, and prolonged exposure 
can kill them. Silver has no special effect on most vampires, nor do crucifixes, 
although priests can harm vampires with crosses, and blessed crosses or holy water 
are effective. A vampire’s body decomposes rapidly upon death. Priests can keep 
vampires at bay by holding out a cross, but this tactic does not necessarily work for 
others. Vampires can enter places uninvited, but they can only enter a church if 
invited by the priest. Running water neither harms nor blocks vampires, and garlic 
may repulse them briefly but does not injure or stop them. Mirrors have no effect 
upon vampires, and most vampires cast reflections. All vampires must sleep during 
the day, though they need not do so in a coffin or crypt, and they don’t always need 
fresh soil. Many vampires have particular quirks, such as feeding only on a few select 
victims, collecting ancient art of all sorts or evidencing horrific or animalistic 
features. Vampires are often pallid and sometimes unnaturally lean, and they do not 


naturally breathe; they also do not eat 
or drink. A vampire’s fangs are only 
visible when the vampire feeds. 
You know that vampires drink 
people’s blood, but doing so does not 
always kill the victims, and even those 
killed by the vampire’s thirst do not 
always come back as vampires. A vam- 
pire is usually stronger than a human, 
and it can always absorb more injury, 
but it may or may not be faster. Vam- 
pires are not always smarter than 
humans, but old ones are usually quite 
crafty. All vampires have at least some 
special powers, though these vary; mind 
control, speed, sensitivity, concealment 
and emotional control are common, 
while more arcane abilities like 
shapeshifting are more rare. You know 
I 
have similar powers and weaknesses. 
Vampires sometimes claim certain allegiances, and groups of vampires from different 
cities may be hostile to one another. 
that vampires that are related often 
VAMPIRE 
LOREX 4 
Fire and sunlight injure or kill vampires, and the unliving flee from these forces. 
You know that a wooden stake through the heart immobilizes avampire but does not 
kill it. Decapitation will kill a vampire, though. A vampire’s body decomposes 
rapidly upon death, unless the individual became a vampire recently. Crosses and 
holy objects sometimes hurt or ward against vampires, though not always; most 
often, they work for priests, but not all priests can use them, and some people who 
aren’t priests can. A vampire can enter a place uninvited, even a church, and it can 
cross holy ground unless barred by someone using a holy symbol. Running water, 
mirrors and garlic do not injure or hinder vampires. Most vampires cast reflections. 
Vampires often sleep deeply during the day, but they can do so in any location away 
from sunlight. You know that vampires are usually pale and sometimes rather thin, 
and that they don’t generally breathe; they are also cold to the touch, and sometimes 
have monstrous features (especially when angry). 
You’ve learned that vampires often gather in groups or families, and these 
families usually share similar powers. You’ve also heard that many vampires claim 
descent from Caine, the first murderer from the Bible, though there are some 
(especially outside of Europe and the Americas) who have different legends of 
ancestry. Furthermore, most vampires claim allegiance to some sort of political group 
(though you’ve probably only heard the name of one of the sects, and you know only 
that other sects exist). Young vampires have a few powers, while older ones have 
multiple powers and stronger, stranger abilities. Vampires usually have some sort of 
weakness, and families often share the same weaknesses, such as a preference for 
feeding on a certain type of person or a fondness for art. Vampires are not always more 
physically powerful than humans, but they can often temporarily boost their 


strength or speed, and some are always stronger. Old vampires tend to be far, far more 
powerful than humans or even younger vampires. Vampiric powers include the 
ability to control animals or people, to sway emotions, to resist injury, to become 
highly sensitive, to conceal oneself, to shapeshift (a rare power), to cast spells (also 
rare) or to exhibit incredible strength and speed. A vampire can heal most wounds 
very rapidly, though only to some degree. You know that vampires sometimes go 
berserk when very hungry or badly wounded. People bitten by vampires do not 
always become vampires; the vampire must feed the person some blood first, and 
then the victim must die. People who drink vampire blood without dying may gain 
great strength or vampiric powers, and such people often serve the vampire in 
question. Vampires can retract their fangs to hide them, and they can close the 
wounds from their bites. 
VAMPIRE 
LOREX 5 
You know that vampires are injured or even killed by fire and sunlight, that holy 
symbols and objects only have an effect if the bearer has faith, and that decapitation 
kills vampires. A wooden stake through the heart paralyzes a vampire, but does not 
kill it. You know that running water and garlic bar only a very few vampires at all, 
and that only some lackreflections. Vampires must sleep during the day, though they 
can rise (with great difficulty) in times of danger. 
You know that vampires organize themselves according to lines of lineage 
(sometimes called “bloodlines,” “families” or “clans,”), and that vampires of com- 
mon lineages often share similar powers and interests. Each of these lineages 
apparently traces back to a powerful progenitor, and then to Caine, the Biblical 
murderer cursed with vampirism by God for his deeds. Vampires also divide 
themselves among certain political allegiances; the “Camarilla” consists of vampires 
who try to hide their nature from humanity, while the “Sabbat” is populated with 
vampires who revel in their monstrous natures. Vampires may enter domains freely 
and without invitation. Many vampires manifest a few different powers, and you 
know of many of the common abilities (incredible speed, strength, resilience, 
sensitivity; the ability to control minds [sometimes ofpeople, sometimes of animals], 
sway emotions, conceal or change shape), but only very old vampires have a great 
variety of powers. Also, some rare vampires can cast spells, control shadows, 
shapechange into animals or control the dead. A vampire passes on the curse by 
draining the blood of an individual and then feeding that person some blood. 
Individuals who drink of a vampire’s blood may feel a mystical bond of servitude to 
that vampire; if human, such individuals may gain some vampiric powers. Vampires 
have a mortal terror of fire and sunlight, both of which may cause them to flee. 
Vampires can also be goaded into a rage through insult, injury or hunger. A vampire 
can heal injuries inflicted by normal sources -swords, falls and the like - 
rapidly. 
Vampires are usually (but not always) somewhat pallid, and they lose a bit of weight 
in the process of “dying.” The fangs of a vampire only extend when the vampire 
wishes to feed or is enraged. Furthermore, a vampire can lick a bite wound, causing 
it to close. Vampires do not breathe naturally, and they are cold, although some 
vampires can overcome this shortcoming with effort. 
WEREWOLF 
LORE 
“My god,” Detective Gilder said as he arrived at the gruesome scene. “Did a family 
of bears go crazy here?” 


Gore painted every inch of the wooded clearing, and what wasn’t soaked was torn, 
mangledor broken. The only evidence that this place hadonce beenacampsite (rather than, 
say, an abbatoir) was a circle of stones with some blackened bits of wood in the center. 
“Not likely, Detective,” one ofthe officers on the scene responded, picking through a 
particularly sogg-j mess with apen. “We don’t get many bears in this part of Connecticut. 
Besides, bears don’t do this. ” 
Gilder swallowed hard (against a shift in the wind) and said, “So what happened?” 
“Your call, Detective,” the officersaid, sundingbackup, still holding thedrippingpen. 
“We’re of the opinion it was some sort of animal attack, but who knows what kind? We 
found claw and scratch marks on the trees and some of the larger rocks scattered about, but 
they don’treally matchany patterns Irecognize. lfound wolftracks, but they’refarther on, 
outside of this area. ” 
“Any idea of the victims?” Gilder asked. “Like who they a- 
were.” 
“Some surt of survey team, we think,” the officer said, moving away from the scene 
of slaughter. Gilder gkdly followed him. “We found smashed survey equipment around the 
clearing, and the tripodwas impaled through ow ofthe more intact bodies we took outearlier. 
The tripod had the letters ‘NTEX’ on it. The rest had broken off in the victim’s body.” 
Gilder stopped in his trucks. 
“Show me some of the claw mrks you found,” he said, steeling himself to go buck to 
‘Two nights ago, most likely.” 
“-was 
there a full moon out?” 
In the wild places outside of the cities, the werewolves congregate; in the 
huddles of urban society, they move unnoticed among the ranks of mankind. Their 
spiritual rites are strange and their many forms terrifying. Only the most stalwart of 
souls can withstand their fury, and they are a secretive kind indeed - 
and not above 
destroying threats to their hidden society. 
Your Werewolf Lore measures your knowledge of the elusive and horrifying 
shapeshifters, as well as their culture and ways. Those without this Lore may well 
believe that werewolves are nothing more than folk tales or myths. You know better 
- 
you know that they’re real, that they’re dangerous, but that they can be fought 
or (rarely) befriended. Learning Werewolf Lore is a difficult undertaking; separating 
fact from myth is extremely hard when the Delirium makes sure that few hunters ever 
remember their experiences with werewolves. 
Werewolf characters are automatically considered to have the equivalent of all 
five levels of this Ability; only a lost and untrained cub would not know of the many 
forms and the dangers of silver, for instance. Further knowledge of the various 
shapechangers is provided by more specialized Garou Lore. 
the scene of the attack. “And think back. When this happened-” 
WEREWOLE 
LORE x I 
Much of your knowledge of werewolves comes from fantasy and myth. You 
believe that werewolves may exist, and that they can be killed by silver bullets and 
repelled by wolfsbane. Werewolves can be hurt by normal weapons, but do not die 
from such attacks. You believe that werewolves change shape into hideous man- 
wolves on the night of the full moon, and then rampage about killing and eating 
people. Werewolves can supposedly pass on their condition by biting others - 
be 
careful while hunting them! 


You suspect that werewolves gain 
some size, strength and speed while 
rampaging, but that they are unintel- 
ligent, slavering monsters while the 
moon is full. A werewolf can often be 
discerned by certain markings: a pen- 
tagram on the hand, index and middle 
fingers of the same length, eyebrows 
that meet in the center of the fore- 
head. Most werewolves are solitary, 
bestial creatures, just as quick to fight 
their own kind as to war with vam- 
pires or humans. 
WBREWOLE 
LORBX 2 
You've learned that silver is quite 
effective against werewolves and that 
other attacks can injure them, but not 
kill them. You suspect that they can 
change shape any time at night, but 
they are forced to change by the sight 
of the full moon. Wolfsbane is repel- 
lent to some, but not all, werewolves. When shifted into their animalistic forms, 
werewolves are powerful predators, but they retain a cunning instinct. You also 
believe that the bite of a werewolf may be sufficient to pass on its condition, but that 
this does not always occur. Certain remedies, such as belladonna infusions, may help 
to delay or prevent the onset of lycanthropy contracted by a werewolf's bite. Of 
course, such potions are also poisonous. 
A werewolf in its animal form is always larger and stronger than normal, and its 
claws and teeth are capable of rending flesh and bone with nearly equal ease. 
Werewolves can sometimes be told by specific marks and traits, but not all 
werewolves exhibit all of those physical aberrations. Werewolves in the city are 
usually solitary individuals, though some werewolves run in groups or packs - 
a 
terrifying notion considering their strengths! 
WEREWOLE 
LOREX 3 
You now know that silver and fire can both injure and kill werewolves, and that 
persistent attacks of other sorts can incapacitate or sometimes kill them. Silver is 
baneful to werewolves in almost all of their forms, so they avoid it whenever possible. 
Wolfsbane and other herbs are largely useless against the shape-changers, unfortu- 
nately. Werewolves heal from most attacks quite rapidly, but a single overwhelming 
attack can slow one down long enough for a hunter to escape or to make a final blow. 
Werewolves apparently have several different forms, a range between man and 
wolf. Each werewolf can assume any of these forms, but some are more comfortable 
with particular forms. In any case, they can shapechange whenever they want. 
However, the sight of the moon at night often causes the werewolf to change 
involuntarily. 
It can be difficult to tell werewolves from other people - 
many are comfortable 
in their human forms, and they show few telltale signs of their heritage. Some, 


though, ,act more like wolves, and can be spotted because of their primitive 
unfamiliarity with their human forms. In any case, werewolves retain at least some 
intelligence in all of their forms, so they can be dangerously clever wolves or 
predatorial humans. They disdain technology, living primitively even among 
human society. A werewolf is difficult to capture, though, because people often 
forget when they have seen a werewolf enraged. 
You know that werewolves have some means of traveling unseen, and that they 
sometimes gather in packs or groups. Different packs seem to have territories, and they 
may fight or work with other packs. Individual werewolves sometimes show specific 
cultural characteristics. Most werewolves follow some sort of shamanistic tradition. 
WEREWOLE 
LORE x 4 
You always carry silver - 
it burns werewolves except in their most favored 
forms, and wounds caused to them with silver do not heal easily. Fire is an acceptable 
weapon, but not as effective as silver. Other attacks must rely on main force to slow 
a werewolf down, and werewolves are killing machines that can hardly be matched 
by the toughest of hunters. Thus, you must rely on ambushes and careful planning 
to fight werewolves. 
You know that werewolves refer to themselvcs as “garou,” possibly from the 
French term “loup-gurou.” Often, they run in packs, but each werewolf may claim 
allegiance to a specific camp or tribe as well. A few werewolves belong to packs that 
fight with the others, but most packs work together. The full moon brings out a great 
fury in werewolves, but it does not force them to change; oddly, different phases of 
the moon carry significance to different werewolves. Each werewolf also has a 
favored form - 
human, wolf or man-wolf. The werewolf is most comfortable in that 
form, but it does not heal anymore rapidly than normal. When in the man-wolfform, 
werewolves are terrifying berserkers, and most humans are frightened beyond 
rational thought by their rage. People tend to forget about such encounters, their 
minds defensively pushing away the experience. 
You’ve learned that werewolves have a sort of spiritual, shamanistic culture, 
and that they can do some sort of magic based around spirits. Different werewolves 
have different powers, often related to some sort of status system. Werewolves also 
seem to have relatives among otherwise normal humans and wolves, though these 
individuals cannot be told from their counterparts in society. When among human 
society, the werewolves often disdain technology, and have a particular dislike of big 
corporations, factories and industry. Stranger still, there seem to be shapechangers 
capable of taking other forms, but they are even more scarce legends than werewolves. 
WEREWOLE 
LOREX 5 
At this level of expertise, you know as much about werewolves as they usually 
know about themselves. Silver hurts and kills any werewolf, except when it is in its 
favored form - 
the form in which it was born. Fire works as well. Anything else 
simply slows the werewolf down, although toxic waste and radiation may hurt them 
badly. You know that werewolves are not immune to damage, but that they heal most 
injuries with incredible rapidity. However, a werewolf in its “breed form,” its birth 
form, does not heal any faster than usual. 
All individual Garou, as they call themselves, are part of a particular tribe. Also, 
they are affiliated with acertain phase of the moon, and they draw anger from it. Certain 
phases of the moon have specific roles in society - 
trickster, shaman, mediator, bard, 


warrior. Most Garou run in packs with others from different tribes, breeds and auspices. 
A few packs are composed of the “Black Spiral Dancer” tribe, agroup of werewolves that 
are all evil and corrupt, and these werewolves fight others of their kind. 
Garou also have potent spirituality. You know that the garou can enter a 
magical spirit world, which they call the “Umbra,” by stepping into a reflective 
surface, and that they can step back out through any similar surface. They also make 
deals with spirits, calling upon them for magical powers. Some packs have a 
particular patron spirit - 
a “totem” [sic] - 
that grants them additional boons. 
All werewolves are killing machines when enraged. In their man-wolf forms, they 
ate half again as tall as a human, incredibly fast and strong and deadly with their claws 
and teeth. However, they remain intelligent, able to call upon both human intelli- 
gence and animal instinct. At times, werewolves become terribly furious, and they are 
then uncontrollably dangerous. They have a particular crusade against the spoils of 
progress, such as pollution and toxic waste, though not all are total Luddites. You know 
that werewolves spend most oftheir time in the wilderness, guarding holy places where 
they commune with their spirit allies. You also know that they have relatives among 
both humans and wolves, and that they choose mates from such relatives. 
In their man-wolf forms, werewolves cause a reaction that they call “Delirium,” 
causing people to forget the sight of the werewolf or to rationalize it away. This 
survival instinct causes normal humans to flee in terror or curl into a helpless ball; 
only the strongest wills remain unbroken. However, the relatives of werewolves are 
immune to this “Delirium.” Aside from human and wolf relatives, there are some 
shapeshifters that take other forms - 
great cats, rats, lizards, crows and the like - 
but you know little of their ways. 
WRAITH 
LORE 
“I don’t know why the police referredme to you,” Lydiasaid, lookingnerwous andout 
of place. “Are you a specialist in stalkers or something?” 
Emilio Loren? considered how much he should tell the distraut housewife about what 
he actually did for a liwing, and decided instead to get right to business. 
“I’ma special consultant to the police, ” he said, gesturingfor her to sit down in the chair 
across thedeskfrom him. “Now, I’we lookedower yourreport, andIhaweafewquestions.” 
Lydia sat and nodded dumbly. Something about the Italian man’s voice was very 
reassuring, if not particularly warm or comforting. 
“You say that a stranger approached you and began to ask you about personal matters 
of which he should have had no prior knowledge. Is that correct! That’s why you feel you 
are being stalked?” 
“Yes,” Lydia said. “He asked me about a manuscript my husband was working on. But 
my husband died two years ago, and he’d newer talked about it in depth to anyone but me. 
Anyway, this weirdmansaid the title, andaskedmeifI, ofallpeople, wasgoingtofinishit. Then 
he started asking me how I was doing and what I was thinking. I got so scared I just ran away .” 
“Understood,” Emilio said, marking something on a yellow legal pad. “How exactly 
did your husband die?” 
“A car accident,” the womn said, not sure why the strange consultant had brought it 
up. “Itwas sudden.. . he was on his way backfromameetingwith his agent whenit happened.” 
“I see. And this manuscript. Was it something your husband had been particularly 
hard at work on?” 


“It w a  all he talked about before.. . before it happened,” Lydia said, suppressing 
remembered tears from that hom‘ble time. “Is that relevant to my case?” 
“Quite relewant,” Emilio said. “I’d wager that you and this manuscript were the two 
most important things in your late husband’s life, were they not?” 
“Yes,” Lydia said. “But why does that matter? What does that hawe to do with the 
weirdo who came up to me on the street?” 
“Oh, more thanmight be immediately apparent,” Emilio said, stadingand picking up 
a steel cane fro mastand beside his desk. “Do you mind ifwe t a k a  lookat your apartment?” 
Humans have searched - 
mostly in vain - 
for clues to what lies beyond the 
veil of death. In many cultures, stories tell ofheroes traveling to the lands of the dead 
and returning, or of the dead passing their wisdom on to the living. Some speak of 
an age where the dead and living existed together in harmony. Such days, if they ever 
happened, are long gone. The dead do not deign to commune with the living, or are 
they unable; the living, in turn, fear the unlit corridors of the afterlife, when they 
bother to turn to such thoughts at all. 
The Restless Dead themselves come into their darkly lit realm with scant 
knowledge of their condition. Indeed, most are not even aware, blinded and 
deadened by their Cauls upon death. Only a very few arrive sensible and able to 
comprehend their surroundings - 
and no wraith is ever guaranteed a mentor or 
tutor to learn the skills necessary to exist in the Underworld. The passion to hang 
on to some memory of existence does not come with any more answers to the 
mysteries of death. Most ghosts can only discover their own powers and limitations 
through trial and error, or with the rare advice of another compassionate spirit. 
Learning Wraith Lore is a difficult and trying task. Finding a teacher capable of 
instructing one in such secrets is a feat in and of itself; most wraiths learn their limits 
and capabilities through hard trial and error. A mortal probably needs a wraithly 
instructor, or talent in areas like the Merit: Medium or the Ephemera sorcerous path, 
in order to gain this knowledge. Wraiths usually manage to puzzle out a small amount 
after some time in the Underworld, but true understanding may take years, many 
instructors and several failed ventures. Wraiths going about their business are the 
most common learners of Wraith Lore, of course, though some necromantically- 
inclined supernatural creatures of other factions develop a small understanding of 
the dead (most notably: Giovanni, Samedi, Harbinger of Skulls and Nagaraja 
vampires; Silent Strider Garou; various death-cult wizards; sluagh changelings and, 
of course, mummies). 
WRAITH 
LOREX I 
You know (or at least believe) that ghosts exist, that some people go on to an 
afterlife. It may be that all the dead congregate in one eternal place, or that they go 
on to separate unlives, or that some do not go at all - 
you haven’t met enough ghosts 
to know for sure. Some ghosts are just plain nasty, apparently only being reflections 
of all of their pain, hate or fear in life; others mindlessly repeat their actions from 
their living days. A few are still sensible and able to talk, though they can freakily 
change moods with extreme rapidity. 
Many wraiths seem to hold on to places or people that were familiar 01 
important to them in life. Not all do so, though. Some even keep ties to special 
things, strong enough to reach into the living land and affect these subjects. 


Occasionally, objects manifest in the ghost world, but you don’t really know how 
they get there or why. 
Ghosts seem to manifest a variety of powers, though you’re not really sure of the 
range and versatility of them all. Some wraiths haunt areas through cold spots or 
lights; others speak in eerie whispers; still others even possess people or objects. 
There’s no telling what powers a particular ghost manifests, though. You do know 
that ghosts are normally immaterial, but can still see and hear things in the living 
world. Even if driven off, most wraiths eventually return. 
A ghost is supposedly barred by sea salt, according to old tales, and it may also be 
vulnerable to exorcisms, to strewing an area with rose petals or to threatening the people 
or objects it holds dear. Swings or blows can affect wraiths, though this really just seems 
to annoy them, not injure them. However, ghosts can interact with one another. 
WRAITH 
LOREX 
2 
Apparently, not everybody becomes a ghost on dying, or perhaps some of them 
go on to a place unable to reach the mortal realm. Whatever the case, ghosts seem 
to be nothing more or less than the souls of the dead, still clinging to some semblance 
of life. A few - 
spectres - 
are malicious and violent, but most are just a little 
unstable (doubtless from dying). 
You know the term “Fetter.” A Fetter is an object, person or place with some 
significance to a particular wraith. Apparently, wraiths can use them for protection, 
and they hang around such objects or places due to some spiritual tie. Destroyed Fetters 
sometimes become “ghost objects,” as do other objects with important memories 
attached, though not under any conditions that you can conclusively repeat. 
Wraiths term their special powers Arcanoi and study a wide range of abilities. 
Some can haunt areas, and some can appear material briefly. You only know of about 
a half-dozen such powers, but there are supposedly a great many. Aside from that, 
wraiths have very sharp senses, and they sometimes see images of death or life 
swirling about things or people. They also are immune to most physical strikes. 
A wraith can be exorcised by a skilled priest, or kept out with magical wardings 
and strong belief (pure sea salt works best). Most wraiths have a very hard time 
affecting the living world, if at all. Also, they can be discorporated briefly, and if they 
suffer too much ghostly injury (especially from other wraiths), they disappear for a 
time - 
sometimes forever. 
There are supposedly “layers” to the deadlands. The Shadowlands refer to the 
reflection of the mortal world. The Tempest is some sort of eternal storm, but it only 
rarely rages through parts of the Shadowlands. Also, there are apparently Heaven( s) 
and Hell(s) in the Underworld, though they are far away and barred to most (you 
have to be worthy of entry, or something). 
WRAITH 
LOREX 3 
Many people can and do become wraiths after death. However, not all retain 
their sentience, some become quite malevolent and a few just never seem to show 
up. Regardless, all wraiths share in common strong passions, the desire to do 
something they left unresolved in life. Some items also pass across the Shroud (the 
barrier between life and death), particularly those with important memories at- 
tached to them, but they tend to fade away after time. You’ve even heard rumors of 
ghosts who cross back into the living world physically, but aside from some of the 


more difficult powers of the Arcanoi, this is probably nonsense. In any case, the 
Hierarchy - 
an organization of old, powerful and cynical wraiths - 
declares it 
illegal to interfere with the living, though this doesn’t stop rebels and cultists from 
doing so. Sometimes, other creatures come to the deadlands, or so it is said, but they 
rarely enjoy doing so, and they often leave as quickly as they can. If they can. 
You know a little bit about Fetters - 
almost any young wraith has some, and 
they keep the wraith tied to the living lands. They’re all objects important to the 
wraith in some way, though the wraith may not understand why. A Fetter is more 
easily influenced by some powers, but conversely, injuring a Fetter is damaging to the 
wraith, and destroying one can cause serious problems. 
Wraiths use Arcanoi to manifest various strange powers, the various “ghost 
powers” out of stories. You’ve heard of most of the common Arcanoi, and you know 
that they were once taught by powerful Guilds, but those Guilds were disbanded. You 
also know that using an Arcanos to deal with the living lands is apparently illegal. 
Those who are caught may be turned into slaves or punished by using parts of their 
bodies to make ghostly objects! 
Wraiths do have some weaknesses. Without special powers, they have trouble 
interacting with the material world. This is most true in areas ofdisbelief, science and 
vibrant life - a mundane supermarket is harder to haunt than a run-down 
abandoned house. Even when a wraith affects the material world, its passage and 
powers are often remembered incorrectly or forgotten by mortal witnesses entirely. 
Exorcisms can sometimes bar or send away wraiths, but apparently only a few priests 
know how to do them properly. Sea salt and those other old wives’ tales have no 
effect at all. Thankfully, a dedicated assault on the area that a ghost occupies can 
discorporate it, eventually forcing it away or even into a sort of nightmare play where 
it confronts its worst fears and terrors. This event is called a Harrowing. 
You’re most familiar with the Shadowlands, the edge of the Undenvorldnearest 
the living world. However, you know that the Tempest is a storm-tossed layer 
somehow “underneath” the Skindlands. Some wraiths go there out of need or 
desperation, and powerful cities stand in islands within the Tempest itself. Rumor 
speaks of Far Shores and distant Dark Kingdoms, but you know nothing specific 
about such matters. 
WRAITH 
LORE x 4 
Very few people actually become wraiths - 
only those with powerful memo- 
ries, drives and passions, or horribly violent deaths. Some become mindless drones 
while others keep their consciousness; rumor has it that a few people actually become 
Spectres (which you understand as “evil” ghosts) immediately upon death. It is those 
incomplete passions of life that drive a ghost and give it power. However, those very 
same passions can be turned to dark ends, fueling the darkhalf of the wraith‘s persona 
(or its “Shadow”). It is possible for a ghost to rise from the dead, though such a thing 
is apparently chancy and random. It is also possible for some creatures, especially 
vampires, to walk in the Shadowlands, though doing so is exceedingly rare. 
Fetters tie a wraith to the material world but also offer succor. When a Fetter 
is destroyed, it plunges a wraith into a Harrowing. However, wraiths can often home 
in on their Fetters and use them for shelter. Certain Arcanoi work more easily on 
Fetters than on other things. Most Fetters are objects that were important to the 
wraith for some reason, even if the wraith does not know why or denies the 


connection. Aside from Fetters, objects of importance in the living world can 
become Relics when destroyed, passing into the Shadowlands. Most such items 
disappear as memory of them fades, but some possess an inner power that sustains 
them; these last are exceedingly valuable. Other objects in the Shadowlands come 
from soulforging, the process of turning a whole wraith into a simple item. 
All of the common Guild Arcanoi are familiar to you. You know that the Guilds 
once held power in Stygia, the city of the west, but that they were broken apart 
(although some wraiths still claim secret ties to Guilds). You can recognize most 
guildmarks in practitioners of particular Arcanoi. However, you do know that there 
are some Arcanoi that were barred even more severely than others, and some that 
are native to non-western wraiths or to those who rise from the grave. What these 
powers are called and what they can do, you do not know. Spectres also use some 
Dark Arcanoi; you’ve heard a few names like Contaminate, though the specifics are 
sketchy. Aside from that, you are familiar with the usual ghostly powers of 
insubstantiality, sharp senses, lifesight and deathsight and healing through Pathos. 
You’ve become quite familiar with the Hierarchy, its Legions and bureaucracy and 
the politics thereof, and you can name several different Heretic cults and a few 
Renegade groups. 
You know that ghosts are mostly immune to harm from the living world. Only 
special magic weapons and spells can really capture, bar or injure them. With the 
proper Arcanoi, a wraith can also affect the material world, though this usually takes 
a great deal of effort. Mortals generally don’t remember a ghost’s interactions with 
the living realm, 
You know the Underworld fairly well. You can locate Stygia’s place in the 
Tempest and navigate about the Shadowlands easily. You know of the Venous Stair, 
and you could probably get to it if you felt suicidal. You’ve heard of the Well of 
Oblivion, but who’d ever want to go far enough into the Tempest to see it? You know 
many safe Byways in the Tempest, though they are probably a last resort if you don’t 
know Argos. You also know about some of the other major Dark Kingdoms - 
in 
Africa and Asia, for instance. 
WRAITH 
LORE x 5  
You’ve learned that only very few people, and the rare deceased supernatural 
creatures with strong passions, become wraiths; most others apparently go on to 
Transcendence, Oblivion or whatever. A wraith seems to be nothing more than a 
memory of emotions. Thus, ghosts are motivated only by their strongest passions. 
Those who have very dark desires can fall prey to the whisperings of their Shadows, 
the brutal and insidious parts of their personalities, thus becoming Spectres - 
wraiths who have succumbed to the lure of self-destruction and the desire to wreak 
it upon others. Lastly, a rare few wraiths actually inhabit their old bodies, striving up 
from the grave to take matters in hand in the material world once more. These Risen 
are startlingly tough and can even develop incredible physical powers, but they 
rapidly fall prey to the Shadow. Rising also requires a modicum of proficiency in 
several Arcanoi - 
Inhabit and Puppetry being chief among them. A rare few 
vampires, werewolves and magicians can visit the Shadowlands, too, but it is 
dangerous for them. 
A wraith‘s most important connection to the Skinlands is its Fetters. Through 
the Fetters, the wraith maintains a fragile link to the living world and to its reflection 


You know all the territory of the Underworld. You know about the Skinlands, 
the Tempest, the Labyrinth, the Far Shores and the Venous Stair; you’ve even heard 
of the Well of Oblivion and many of the secret hide-outs in various parts of the 
deadlands. The Dark Kingdoms are known to you, from the deadlands of Jade (Asia) 
to such obscure places as the Enclave of Wire (Auschwitz) and the Dark Kingdom 
of Sand (ancient Egypt). Moving about in the Tempest may be dangerous, but at 
least you can recognize most hazards, including plamics and other non-wraithly - 
things - that dwell there. 
EAERIE LORE 
“How are youfeelingtoday, James?” DoctorNazelsaidinhisusualfriendly, distant way. 
“Fine, I guess ,” James said, keeping his voice even, trying to be helpful. Trying to “get 
with the program” as Nazel h a  drummed into his head time and again. “How are the test 
results?” 
Nazel consulced his ever-present clipboard and flipped a few neatly typed pages. At 
last, he looked up over the gray frames of his glasses and said, “Promising. We seem to have 
tamed your odd allergy to ferrous metal, if nothing else.” 
“Oh good,” James said eagerly. “Do you think we can take my jacket off today, 
maybe?” He wriggled against the restraining canvas for emphasis. 
“I don’t think so,” the Doctor said, frowning but not meetingJames’ eyes. “It’s still 
too soon after the incident with Nurse Johnson. You nearly bit her hand off, James.” 
“I was only trying to scare her a bit,” James said slowly, attempting a shrug beneath 
his straightjacket. “I think. It’s so hard to remember. Didn’t I eat her thermometer or 
something?” 
“Yes, James,” Doctor Nazel sighed. He flipped another page on his clipboard. “Now 
about these delusions.. . are you still having those dreams?” 
“What dreams?” James said, winkling his forehead and blinking in confusion. 
“About beingamonster,” Nazelsaid. “Aboutserving.. . let’s see.. . ‘the elfkingin the 
mansionat theendofWildcrestLane.’ Thecondemnedmansion, as Irecall. Youwerequite 
adamant about all of it when you were first brought here by your parents, James.” 
“I don’t know,”]ames said slowly. “I can’t remember.. . .” 
Doctor Nazel sighed and turned to go. “Sometimes, James, I swear I just can’t 
understand you.” 
You believe infaeries? Well, there was that case of the girls who saw some, and 
there are old folk tales and even the occasional bit of Muse-inspired art that seems 
to reflect on some otherworldly beauty. Heck, if those people can talk about 
vampires and ghosts, why not faeries? 
Knowledge of Faerie Lore refers to the history of the fae, and to the modem 
changelings that lurk otherwise unnoticed in human society. Of course, someone with 
this knowledge would never actually refer to them as faeries. With this Ability, you may 
have some information regarding their arts, their movements and their ways of hiding 
from humanity. You may even have snippets of memory from a time being enchanted. 
Most true changelings are instructed in their faerie natures shortly after the 
Chrysalis. Indeed, the Chrysalis itself draws other faeries, so the young fae may have 
many potential mentors waiting for the blessed transformation to a creature of 
dreams. Unless specifically untutored or otherwise ignorant (perhaps due to exposure 


to too much Banality), all changelings are assumed to have knowledge equivalent to 
all of this Lore. Mythlore covers further hidden knowledge of changeling history. 
FAERIE L O R E X  I 
Faeries are real! They are ephemeral creatures of beauty and temperament. Your 
particulars are a little fuzzy, but you’re sure that they are out there, gossamer wings and all. 
Faerie powers are a mystery to you. According to stories, they can do the work 
of many men in a night, turn invisible, flow through walls, fly, cast powerful illusions 
and make people fall in love. On the other hand, they are said to be vulnerable to 
the touch of iron, the shadow of the Cross, the sound of church bells or rooster crows 
and to the touch of holy men. Their attention (and ire) is often drawn when they 
are called “faeries,” so you rely on allusions like “Fair Folk” and “Wee Ones.” 
Supposedly, wearing your coat inside-out and walking backwards renders you 
invisible to them; they seem to have trouble with inversions of human custom. To 
understand humans, or perhaps just as a trick, they occasionally take humans away 
for a time, stealing wives or even replacing children. 
Faeries have their own society, from mischievous pucks to fair elf maidens, ruled 
(of course) by OberonandTitania (according to Shakespeare, anyway). Faeries have 
strange rules and realms, even entire kingdoms like Avalon hidden away from 
human eyes. Should you step into a faerie door - 
a door under a hill, or through a 
ring of mushrooms or even into a tree - 
you may find yourself trapped there for a 
long time, even if it seems only a short while. Also, you should never accept a gift 
from a faerie, or you may be held enthralled; similarly, offering a gift is seen as an 
insult, an attempt to indebt the faerie in question. 
FAERIE LOREX 2 
The faeries of the modem world sure aren’t anything like the old faerie tales. For 
that matter, faeries in the old days probably weren’t like that, either. Though they 
come in many shapes, sizes and forms, they seem to be able to cloak their true 
appearances, looking like normal people. Even when they decide to show their 
powers and forms, most people forget it later. 
Changelings seem to have a variety of magic spells to trick, confuse and call 
upon nature. Many also have knacks like performing great amounts of work or 
turning into mist; there’s no real way to tell how much a given faerie can do with his 
magic. They rarely call upon these powers in the real world, though, content to cast 
subtle and invisible spells instead. 
Magic spells of the right sort can certainly call or banish changelings or faeries, 
as can such tricks as hanging an iron horseshoe over your door. Church bells and holy 
ground apparently keep faeries away, but most of the other little tricks from legend 
don’t seem to have any effect (probably the results of faeries playing pranks on people). 
They do get rather disturbed by the old refrain of ‘‘I don’t believe in faeries!”, though. 
If you can get a changeling to swear an oath, it’s binding, so it is possible to trick them. 
Since they can get drunk or enraged like anyone else, and often with an even more 
terrible temper, this tactic may be a decent one to use when a changeling’s off-guard. 
Experience shows that changelings most often show up at places of natural 
beauty or art, and they have an irresistible attraction for humans who are beautiful, 
charismatic and influential, or conversely ignorant, arrogant and pushy. The former 
they tend to seduce and carry away; the latter, they tease with vicious (and 
sometimes fatal) pranks. 
H U N T I N g  LORES 
e 


E A E R I E  L O R E X  3 
Despite the numbing effect of the Mists, you are somewhat educated about the 
ways of the fae - 
or, at least, their changeling descendants. You’ve uncovered 
information about the various kiths, such as the sidhe and the trolls, though you 
probably don’t know all of the European fae (and you’ve probably never heard of any 
of the stranger types). You’ve heard that the faeries are really dream-spirits from 
another world, given captured human forms. Then again, you’ve also heard of tiny 
brownies and sprites, which are obviously ridiculous. Still, faerie tales are sure to be 
full of errors due to the Mists: most humans fail to see faerie magic, or forget about 
it later, possibly accounting for those stories of lost time. 
Changelings wield powers based on dream and the shaping of imagination. 
They require the use of some sort of vibrant dream energy, and many changelings 
cloak their magic in comical guises or games. Changelings draw some sort of magical 
sustenance from creativity itself, though they can also apparently steal dreams when 
feeling particularly vicious. Most changeling powers only affect others able to see 
dreams, though in dire straits a changeling can bring some of her magic across to the 
material world. 
As for weaknesses of the fae, you’ve discovered (possibly the hard way) that 
most folk tales are totally wrong. Iron seems to have a deleterious effect upon them, 
as does the power of disbelief itself. Presumably, they can also be injured by magic. 
A faerie is also vulnerable to dream-creatures, and can be knocked unconscious by 
such attacks. Puzzlingly, the Mists can sometimes affect a faerie so injured, causing 
the changeling to forget all about her heritage. Changelings canalso be held to sworn 
oaths, though only sometimes - 
the peculiars are unknown to you. 
Changelings obviously congregate wherever artists and dreamers gather. How- 
ever, most still lead some semblance of a normal life, as well. They occasionally refer 
to ranks of nobility, though these titles may simply be formalities for their courtly 
dances in their own, strange society. A few rare sites seem to serve as changeling 
dream-fortresses, called Freeholds, but you know nothing more than that (and, 
indeed, have probably never seen such a conceptually silly place, in any case). 
EAERIE LOREX 4 
You’ve seen or heard of most of the European kiths and understand that 
changelings are basically fragments of dream instilled into human forms. Each kith 
wields a few rather spectacular powers and an unusual appearance, although both 
traits usually only work in the dream-realm that overlaps changeling reality. 
The powers of changelings are called Arts, and they affect things through 
trickery, misdirection, illusion, natural forces and majestic charisma. Most change- 
lings have a modicum of skill with a few Arts, though they have limits on what they 
can affect, dictated by various Realms of existence. Furthermore, fueling magical 
powers requires the use of special tricks called Bunks, seemingly random little 
gestures or games. Changelings harvest the power of creativity from artistic mortals, 
either by inspiration or by stealing the essence of dreams. This distilled power, 
Glamour, takes many random forms, but it ultimately ties a changeling to the dream 
worlds that exist parallel to mundane existence. 
Only a few weapons prove truly deadly to changelings. Obviously, their mortal 
bodies are just as vulnerable to damage as anyone else, but their faerie souls can only 
be permanently quenched with magic or cold iron. “Cold iron” doesn’t necessarily seem 


to mean iron that’s physically cold, 
though; it has more to do with impure, 
natural iron. Dream-beasts and weap- 
ons also hurt changelings, though not as 
badly. A changeling who dies mortally 
is apparently completely dead; one who 
dies in dreams falls into a coma, reviv- 
ing with no memory of changelings. 
Changelings tend to gather at 
places patronized by artists, of course, 
but they also hold special realms called 
Freeholds. A Freehold is a faerie for- 
tress, often with its own dream 
appearance. Mortals tend to avoid such 
placesdue to the effects of the Mists. In 
Freeholds, changelings can replenish 
their power, and sometimes even call 
upon new dream allies or treasures. 
FAERIE LOREX 5 
You know most secrets of faerie 
and changeling society. Changelings, 
for instance, are faerie souls in human 
bodies, there in an attempt to survive in the mortal realm. True faeries are gone from 
the world-only their mortal remnants live on now, some even unaware of their true 
natures. These changelings protect themselves from Banality by hiding in mortal 
forms, reincarnating into new bodies when their mortal host shells die (except the 
sidhe - 
nobody knows what happens to them). The changelings that survive come 
from various groups, or kiths. Each kith traces its heritage back to a fragment of myth 
and dream. You can name the various kiths, as well as their common capabilities, and 
you know about the existence of some unusual types of faeries in Asia and Native 
American cultures, though particulars are sketchy at best. A rare few humans inherit 
a little faerie blood but not a true soul; these kinain are valuable relatives, some even 
possessing a few changeling tricks. 
You’ve learned about the names and effects of various changeling Arts and the 
corresponding Realms. Furthermore, you’re familiar with the different common 
modes ofgaining Glamour- Reverie, Rapture and Ravaging-and 
you know about 
Bunks and how to perform them. You’re aware of the distinction between the 
chimerical world and the “real” one, and of chimerical damage, faerie miens and how 
to influence both. The more esoteric aspects of faerie existence are still sketchy in 
your experience, though you’ve heard tales about mighty quests, magical treasures 
capable of instilling wonder and magic, realms of fantastic legend where youth and 
hope are restored and paths to immortality and true reconciliation for the fragmen- 
tary human and fae souls. 
O n  the flip side, you can also be a danger to the fae: Cold iron, unrefined and 
in its natural unalloyed iron state, is anathema, capable of inflicting mortal wounds 
and even destroying a faerie soul completely. As creatures of dream and wonder, 
faeries are also vulnerable to disbelief and - 
more terribly - 
boredom. A change- 
ling can also be injured by dream-weapons or creatures (that is, chimera); this sort 


of injury is more likely to render a changeling comatose and without memories due 
to the Mists, though. Furthermore, you know that changelings can be held to their 
oaths, if they swear under the old forms, though such oaths can paradoxically grant 
them the strength of will to fulfill their sworn promises. 
Even if you’ve never been to a Freehold, you know about the existence of these 
wellsprings of Glamour, their tendency to shift time and space and the balefire 
hearths that represent their power. The rulers of Freeholds are usually changeling 
nobles, which generally means one of the sidhe; however, some commoners hold 
sites, and the titles of nobles (duke, count and so on) vary widely enough to indicate 
arange ofpossible possessions and treasures. You also know about the Dreaming, and 
have heard of the Deep Dreaming. The tales of Arcadia are no stranger to your ears, 
though you know that it is sadly closed and lost. You’ve heard the salutory rumors 
of various gates and doorways to realms of faerie or even to Arcadia itself, though 
these are nothing but faraway legends, of course. 
OTHER LORES 
Making up other Lore Abilities is a task left to the individual Storyteller. Just 
about any group or supernatural phenomenon in the World of Darkness could be a 
subject of a specialized Lore. Some examples: 
Cainite Lore: Deeper secrets of vampires, covering such things as the Book of 
Nod, particulars of the Blood Bond, the development of Disciplines, lost bloodlines 
and the like. (Sometimes mistakenly called Kindred Lore - 
remember, only 
Camarilla Licks call themselves “Kindred,” so that’s a misnomer.) 
Camarilla or Sabbat Lore: Understanding of the history, policies and influential 
members of a particular vampire society. Useful for ghouls, revenants and neonate 
vampires who want to get ahead, or hunters who specialize in dealing with one 
group’s particular tactics. 
Clan Lore: The inside scoop on a given clan of vampires. Great for toadying 
ghouls on a waiting list. 
Garou Lore: The particulars ofshapeshifter society, includingranks, rites, Gifts, 
spirit dealings, history, the Silver Record, the Litany and so on. Higher levels may 
impart some knowledge of other shapeshifter types. Useful for kinfolk. 
Hsien Lore: Special knowledge of the hsien, the heavenly messengers of Asia. 
Infernal Lore: Knowledge of infernalists and demonologists, their practices, 
powers and forbidden magic. 
Kinfolk Lore: Study into the recessive side of the shifting family, the limits of 
kinfolk, how their lineages interact with shifters and what sorts of powers they can 
unlock. Good for kinfolk in general (though they would not automatically have such 
knowledge) or for garou making a study of their relatives. 
Mage Lure: The wiles, Traditions and techniques of powerful willworkers. 
Mummy Lore: A bit ofexperience with theever-reincarnating Reborn, whether 
from Egypt or from other versions of the Spell of Life. 
Spirit Lore: Congress with and knowledge of the various natural spirits and 
celestial entities in the Umbra and beyond. 
Tribal Lore: An understanding of the tribal secrets and hidden history of a 
particular family of werewolves. This is a good Lore for a kinfolk studying his 
particular tribe, or someone studying the weaknesses inherent to one tribe. 


WyrmLore: The black secrets of the Wyrm, the Triatic entity ofcorruption and 
thoughtless destruction. 
O N  R E C ~ U L A T I N ~  
LORES 
Obviously, the learning curve of the average player is going to exceed the 
Experience-Trait-earning curve of the average player, making the regulation of 
Lores as purchased in your chronicles somewhat difficult. A player’s character might 
learn more about a particular type of supernatural creature in one night than he’ll 
ever have the Experience Traits to buy the requisite levels of Lore to represent. 
If you are running a chronicle, it is important to know when to anticipate this 
accelerated learning curve. If you are creating a human character for a largely 
vampire-populated chronicle, for instance, it may be advisable to put a cap on the 
level of Lore the human may purchase after character creation. After all, if a human 
enters the game with one level of Vampire Lure, and some loose-lipped Ventrue 
historian spills the beans as he understands things, purchasing more levels of Vampire 
Lore is no longer cost-effective. However, you might state that any knowledge an 
uninitiated character gains about a supernatural creature must be purchased in the 
Lore path, or the character will “forget” what he has learned. 
On the whole, however, it is worthwhile to note that these lores are best used 
as roleplaying notes. If a hunter character has gained only the first level of Vumpire 
Lure, make sure he acts on the supposition that vampires are repulsed by the cr 
garlic, their own reflection and the barrier of running water. Having a hunter (even 
a Storyteller character) learn from his mistakes and adapt to the true World of 
Darkness makes for a much more dramatic story than having someone say, “Okay, 
this is what I think I know; what’s the truth?” 
Because, after all, finding out the night’s true secrets and surviving to tell the 
tale of how you learned them is so much more rewarding in the end. 
I 
I 
I 
r 
I 


... 
__ . ... . -. . . 
- -. . 
- 
STRINCj QUARTFT 
by Richard E. Dansky 
We intend to include a piece of World of Darkness fiction in every issue of the 
Journal. Fiction dealing with the World ofDarkness offers insights into the lives and 
times of the people (i.e., the characters) who inhabit it, and such insights offer you 
(as players and Storytellers) flavor and spice to make your Mind’s Eye Theatre 
games all the more attractive. Mind’s Eye Theatre releases should be simulta- 
neously entertaining and useful. This piece, in line with the theme ofthis issue, gives 
a glimpse of what it’s like to be the bad guy in the World of Darkness. A bad guy’s 
motivations are important to any story, but how to play a bad guy is something that 
gets overlooked. How does one act? What does one do to accomplish his sinistergoah? 
How does one think? Read on to find out. 
~ 
~ 
~~~~ 
PARTI: 
THE WEB 
There is nothing quite like squeezing through a heating vent to make one lose all 
appreciation for the dessert tray. 
That’s what Todd the Grey was thinking, anyway, as he hauled himself out of the 
duct and turned to place the vent cover where he’d be able to reach it later. One of the 
screws went skittering across the wooden floor, and with a silent curse Todd retrieved 
it in his long, chalky fingers. His face a pallid mask of concern, he looked up at the figure 
snoring on the bed across the room, still blissfully asleep. 
Todd grinned. Even on his worst day, he still had it. “Not too shabby still, old 
man,” he hissed to himself, and stalked toward the figure on the bed. 
The man lying in the tangle of blankets was huge, at least six and a half feet 
in height. His barrel chest rose and fell in time with his titanic snores, which were 
loud enough to be physically painful to Todd’s sensitive ears. The man’s face was 
wide, florid and bearded, and his massive hands clenched and unclenched in 
random, spasmodic motions. 
“You look a lot better when you’re blue, old man,” Todd whispered, studying his 
target for a moment. Normally Todd knew the man in his other guise, that of a troll 
knight with the laughable name of Waldo. Tonight, however, he was just plain old 
Wally Bergen, and plain old Wally didn’t have a hope in hell against the subtlest, most 
infamous and best paid (the last was important, Todd told himself) assassin the sluagh 
had ever spawned. 
Truth be told, Waldo didn’t stand much of a chance either. Todd was that good. 
Sir Waldo had made a mistake, you see. At court, he’d had a few too many mugs 
of ale and gotten a little too loud about certain indiscretions other court members had 
made. Someone had taken offense, someone with a great deal of money to spend on 
vengeance. That someone had hired Todd the Grey. 
As usual, Todd wore his working clothes -black 
silk, from head to toe, and 
paper#soled shoes. He eschewed both gloves and mask - 
he liked neither his 
vision nor his spidery fingers obstructed when he went to work. As always, he wore 
a belt of black braided leather, with a single slim dagger and a single black pouch. 
His fine, long hands paused over the dagger for a moment, then reached into the 
pouch. He smiled softly as he drew forth a gentle handful of what looked like tiny 
STRING 
QUARTET 
a 


clockwork toys, all shaped like spiders. The largest had a single human hair tied 
around one leg. 
“Time for work, my children,” he said. He blew gently across the handful of toys, 
and the spiders came alive. Silently, gracefully, they sprung from Todd’s hand to the 
beard of the man beneath, nimbly making their way up toward his face. One by one they 
vanished into his mouth, his nose, his ears. Within seconds, all had disappeared, leaving 
only a smiling Todd to witness their departure. 
With infinite care, Todd moved back to the duct, slid inside, and replaced 
the vent. Behind him, the tenor of Wally’s snoring was changing. The Inner 
Spinners had gone to work. Todd permitted himself a last glimpse of his prey, and 
then he vanished. 
*** 
Wally jolted from his sleep with a choked snort. He sat up and tried to suck in a 
lungful of air to clear his head of the nightmares he’d been having and found to his 
horror that he couldn’t. His mouth and nose were stuffed with something cold and 
sticky, and he could feel things swarming around inside his mouth. They were crawling, 
he could feel it, and filling his throat with more of that same sticky stuff. In a panic, he 
brought his hands to his mouth to try to tear out whatever was in there, but he could 
only pull away tiny clumps of spiderweb while the creatures inside kept on spinning 
more and more of it and the terrible pressure in his chest kept on building. 
The last thing Sir Waldo, for he had returned to his fae mien in desperation, saw 
was one of the Inner Spinners taking aleisurely walk across his left eye. Thankfully, after 
that, he saw no more. 
*** 
It was nearly dawn when the spiders finished marching themselves home. Todd 
had been up waiting, sharpening his knives impatiently and otherwise engaging in all 
the rituals of a worried parent. “There you are at last,” he said with relief when the first 
clumped its way onto his windowsill. “It certainly took you longenough.”The column 
of spiders halted and wobbled uncertainly. “Yes, I know what took you so long - 
he 
had a big, big mouth, didn’t he? That’s why you had to go pay him a visit. Now sit 
yourselves down and rest. You’ll need your strength.” 
One by one, the clockwork spiders nestled themselves up so that Todd could 
sweep them, gently, back into his pouch. As the last one vanished into its dark 
confines, Todd smiled the smile of a gently loving father. After all, they were his 
children in a sense, and they’d just helped him carry on the family business. 
PART 
I I :  CAT’S CRADLE 
Slander always thought it was in poor taste for any wraith to sing“Maxwe1l’s Silver 
Hammer,”muchless an Artificer. Unfortunately, the wraith inquestion was apotential 
client, and as poor as his taste might be, it would be infinitely worse form for Slander 
to turn him into a tasteful desk accessory. So Slander just made do with various idle 
defenestration fantasies as he tailed the Artificer to the previously arranged meeting 
point. 
It didn’t make the trip any more pleasant, Slander noted, that the bastard couldn’t 
carry a tune in a bucket. 
Eventually the Artificer, a short, squat man in painfully anachronistic overalls 
and work boots, ducked into a nondescript shop off the agora. Slander, wearing the 
face he’d once seen on a coin of Imperial Roman vintage, waited what might once 
have been three heartbeats, then followed the client in. It was a trap, of course. These 
sorts of situations were always traps. The clients in these cases always had a particular 
flavor of nervousness that gave them away instantly. Still, the question of for whom 
the trap had been set remained open. 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


It was no surprise when the outer door slammed shut, though the utter darkness 
that resulted was startling. There was no light, no light at all. Slander could see nothing, 
and the assassin’s brief glimpse of the room wasn’t enough to allow recollection of 
anything more than the haziest details. 
And then, in the darkness, there came a sound. It was a soft sound and 
regular, the sound of a rocking chair. Slander stopped and tried to track the sound. 
It came from everywhere and nowhere, and every time Slander made a move 
toward it the sound faded. Eventually, the assassin shrugged, gave up the fruitless 
chase, and stood perfectly still, waiting. 
“Three minutes, Slander. I’m disappointed,” came the voice of the wraith Slander 
had presumed was the client. “I’d been led to expect that you’d come to your current 
conclusion much more quickly, and with fewer bumps on the shins.” 
“Who are you?” Slander asked, not expecting an answer. 
“I’m with the Magisterium Veritatis, Slander, though my name is unimportant at 
the moment. What is important is that you’ve been a rather spectacular thorn in the 
Magisterium’s side. However, you’ve got some very powerful friends, so I wanted to talk 
to you.” 
“Talk?” 
“Talk. Honestly, Slander, I have enough from just our dealings to get you 
hammered into a wind chime to hang off the weathervane on the Onyx Tower, but 
really, I just want to talk.” 
Slander shrugged invisibly. “Then why all of the rigmarole? Why the blackout?” 
“You can’t see me, you can’t take out your disappointment on me. For my part, I 
was blind from birth until death, so this places me at a distinct advantage. I’m used to 
this. And in the meantime, this gives me enough of an edge that you’ll talk instead of 
trying anything, at least for a little while.” 
“So what do you want to know?” Slander’s tone was neutral, guarded. 
“Names of clients, names of targets, methods by which you can be contacted, your 
connection to the Masquers’ Guild.” 
“The Guild doesn’t exist.” 
“And my name is Charon, Imperator of this Golden Age of Stygia. Tell you what, 
Slander. Why don’t we pretend that I’ve asked the first round of questions, and you’ve 
made your categorical denials about client confidentiality and so on. Honor and form 
have been satisfied, now we can get down to brass tacks. Who’s next, and why? I won’t 
interfere, but I want to know who, when, why and how.” 
“What’s it to you?” 
The invisible voice made sounds like its owner was shifting in its chair. “Because 
something big is coming, Slander, and 1 want to understand it. 1 want to know why so 
many Anacreons and old-time wraiths throw roadblocks in my way every time 1 try to 
go after you or anyone like you, and I want to know where you fit in. So, now it’s your 
turn for an answer. Who’s next?” 
Slander spoke quickly, but without emotion. “Szandor Holzy is my next target. 
He’s in the Grim Legion, relatively high up, and he’s annoyed a consortium of Gaunts 
from the Emerald and Skeletal Legions, apparently over a matter of allocating space 
at the shipyards. Grim ships are getting precedence over the ones belonging to other 
Legions, and Holzy’s going to be made an example. One would assume that the fact 
that dockyard refit space has suddenly become a hot issue is enough of a clue as to 
what’s going on for you, yes?” 
“Certainly interesting, yes. Do you have anything else for me?” 
“One more tidbit you might find of interest.” 
“Oh?” 
STRING 
QUARTET 


“You’ve been set up. Those Domens and Gaunts you mentioned earlier have 
decided that you’re a nuisance. Unfortunately, Holzy isn’t quite the next one on my list. 
You are.” 
Slander picked up the sound of the figure launching itself across the room, the 
noise of the chair swinging empty. “Interesting. I think I’ll be leaving now.” 
‘‘I think you won’t,” Slander said. “The wraiths on your team are involved. 
Hand-picked. As for the darkness, well ...” A moment of concentration was all it 
took before a soft yellow glow spilled from Slander’s perfectly still form. “One of 
the first tricks we teach youngsters in the Guild, centurion. I’m surprised you 
didn’t know that. Now don’t struggle, and I’ll make it so it doesn’t hurt.” 
From the sounds of the screams the guards outside the sealed building heard, 
it was obvious that the poor fool inside had indeed struggled. They nodded 
knowingly to one another, and then they guarded the building some more. It was 
what they were paid to do, after all. 
In the end, there was silence inside, except for the sound of a rocking chair. 
It creaked slowly and steadily as the wraith sitting in the chair rocked back and 
forth, back and forth. Slander was in no hurry, after all. His attention wasn’t on 
the furnishings, the walls or even the door. 
Slander was paying very close attention to the game of cat’s cradle he was playing, 
instead. After all, snapping the wraith you were playing with was said to be bad luck, 
very bad luck indeed. 
PART 
I I I :  RED TAPE 
It was an office park, much like any other office park. All of the buildings 
were a single story, with flat roofs guaranteed to resonate like bass drums during 
a hard rainstorm. Each building was some variation on a basic blocky rectangle, 
with tall windows and glass doors and white lettering over each doorway pro- 
claiming proudly that TechStar Consultants or some equivalent laired within. 
In one of these mundane buildings, behind an equally mundane glass door, 
rested the offices of Proac Environmental Consultants, a firm devoted to helping 
companies deal with the ever-changing complexities of EPA regulations. Today’s 
perfectly legal barrel of solvent was tomorrow’s $100,000 fine waiting to happen, 
and smart firms hired someone like PEC to help them stay one step ahead of the 
government officials. It was part of doing business, after all - 
paying a little up 
front to clean things up could save millions in fines on the back end. Proac (or 
some firm very much like it) was just the company to help businesses over that 
particular hump. 
On this particular afternoon (64 degrees and partially cloudy, with the light 
coming down in bored curtains of chiaroscuro through the gaps in the clouds), a 
meeting of singular importance was taking place in Proac’s offices. Seated in the small 
conference room that housed all of the firm’s good office chairs were a woman and two 
men, one of whom was of singular appearance. The man in question was all of five and 
a half feet tall and grossly fat. His chin, such as it was, sagged down until it was 
indistinguishable from the cavernous folds of his neck. He was bald, with a wrinkled 
pate and a broad, flat nose that turned up in a way that reminded observers of either an 
ancient prizefighter or a young hog. He wore a suit of greenish-gray fabric and a yellow 
shirt, and his massive hands spilled from jacket cuffs that were an inch too short to hide 
his thick wrists. 
The other two, oddly enough, were thrilled to see him. 
“We are very, very happy that you’re interested in joining us here, Mr. 
Sheldon,” said the woman. She was tall and angular and thin, with faded blonde 
hair and a severe blue suit. “We know that you’re moving from the other side of 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  


the fence, as it were - 
Magadon is not exactly known for its adherence to 
environmental regulations - 
but we really look forward to the expertise you can 
bring to our operations. And you come very, very highly recommended.” Beside 
her, a small man with brown hair and mannerisms that would have fit better on 
a sparrow, nodded nervously and repeated the phrase “highly recommended” two 
or three times before fading into a humiliated silence. 
The man on the other side of the table smiled a wide, wide smile, showing 
perhaps a few more teeth than most people would consider appropriate for a business 
meeting. “Honestly, it’s my pleasure, Miss - 
it is Miss, yes - 
Schiller. I’ve been part 
of the problem, as it were, long enough. Now it’s time to be part of the solution. I’m 
very much looking forward to being part of your team. When can I start?” 
“Ahem.”The nervous little man, Schiller’s assistant, cleared his throat, nervously, 
of course. “There is the matter of compensation, which we still haven’t ironed out yet. 
Now the figures you’ve provided as your acceptable range-” 
“If they’re too high, I’m open to negotiation.” Sheldon spread his big, soft hands 
in a gesture of magnanimity. “Really, that’s only an initial range.” 
The little man, who went by the name of Keenan, shook his head vehemently, 
almost dislodging his carefully combed-over hair from his forehead. “Nonononono. 
Actually, I was going to say that your numbers were well below what we were expecting. 
We were going to come in with an offer substantially higher than the range you 
proposed, which, frankly, I find a little puzzling when it comes to dealing with someone 
with vour (of course) superb qualifications.” 
Sheldon placed his hands on the table, palms down, and actually managed to 
look embarrassed. “Well, I have a confession to make. I more or less lowballed 
myself.” 
“Why!” 
“Well, because I really want the position. Call it the guilt discount for some of the 
things that I worked on at Magadon. Though if you feel compelled to pay me more, how 
about this as a compromise: Give me a net point on all the new business that I bring in 
through my contacts for the next twelve months, and then we can talk about adding 
another point or going to straight additional compensation. But honestly, all that is 
secondary.” Keenan had already tuned him out and was scribbling figures frantically on 
the yellow pad in front of him. Schiller leaned forward, interested. 
“Secondary? That may be a first, frankly. Usually we have to cut these 
interviews short when the interviewee decides that we can’t pay enough.” 
Sheldonsmiled that too-wide smile again. “Look, Miss Schiller, let me level with 
you. I want to work here, and I’ve done my research. I know you, and I know your 
company, and I know you’re not doing anywhere near as well as you could be. There 
are a lot: of companies out there who’d rather gamble with the EPA than pay you to 
straighten their acts out. They all lose in the end,” he paused and shrugged, as if he 
knew that fact all too well, “but try telling them that until the time the government 
inspecmrs show up on their doorsteps with plastic bags and notepads. So, we need to 
find a way to get them to listen to you, even when they don’t want to listen. We’ve 
got to find a way to trick them, essentially, into buying what you’re selling. And that’s 
where I come in. These men don’t want to hear about how they can obey the law. Sad 
but true, they want to hear how they can beat it, hypercompetitive bastards that they 
are. So we reposition Proac’s approach. We still provide the same product, but we sell 
it as a way to get around the EPA, a way to buy some time for compliance so it doesn’t 
cost as much. Let them think they’re getting away with something and they’ll pay 
through the nose for it; give them honest value and they’ll go looking for a bargain. 
Hell, if any of them had any sense of responsibility in the first place, this company 
wouldn’t exist, right? So let me pitch it to you straight: I’ll take point. I’ll go in to the 
S T R I N ~  
QUARTET 


oil companies and the petrochem boys and the paint manufacturers and I’ll let them 
think that I’m on their side. After all, I’ve got the Magadon credentials, right? I can’t 
possibly be one of those naughty environmentalists. And then I give them the 
presentation on how they can ‘work around’ the EPA, when really what we’re doing 
is just stringing out their cleanup so that it looks like a money saver. They think 
they’re getting away with something, we get increased business and the EPA gets what 
it wants, eventually. It’s just this way the bad guys aren’t so inclined to dig their heels 
in and fight tooth and nail.” 
Schiller uncrossed her arms and leaned forward. She smiled. “I’d be very 
interested in seeing your proposed presentation, Mr. Sheldon. Robert?” she called 
to Keenan, still scribbling away, “I think Mr. Sheldon’s proposal is very intrigu- 
ing. Think you can work out the contract language?” 
“Cfcourse.” Keenan sounded hurt. “I’ll have it ready for the lawyers to look at by three.” 
“Excellent.” Internally, Sheldon was laughing. Schiller was clearly hooked, 
and Keenan was a nonentity. The woman had clearly caught the smell of money 
and she’d follow it off the path of her principles. Soon delays in conforming would 
turn into workarounds and avoidance, and she’d justify each step to herself. 
Honestly, if she were half as smart as she thought, she never would have fallen for 
the lowball technique. Clearly, she wanted to believe he’d come work for her 
nickel and dime outfit out of the goodness of his heart, and that was her weakness. 
She’d profit by it in one sense, but not without paying the price. Proac would be 
diverted from its original purposes, and so profitably that no one could gainsay the 
slow change. God help any actual environmentalists on board, because no one in 
management was going to. 
“Mr. Sheldon,” she said. “for a former oil company executive, you are remarkably,” 
and she laughed, “green.” 
Sheldon joined in her laughter. “My dear Miss Schiller,” said the Toad, “you 
have no idea of just how green 1 really am. No idea at all.” 
PART 
IV: LOOSE THREADS 
Three and three they flew, three above and three below. Seen from the proper 
angle, Murder’s Daughters formed a perfect diamond. Seen from another, they were just 
another unkindness of ravens riding a cold, angry wind. 
The land they flew over was brown with dead leaves and gray with asphalt; it was 
a place of square white houses with square mown lawns. It was a place where nothing 
extraordinary would be allowed to happen, where good and evil would both be kept at 
bay by the desire of the residents for normalcy above all else. 
Good tended to respect this desire. Unfortunately, evil didn’t. 
The six ravens swooped over the neighborhood once, twice, three times, then 
found their target and dove for it. One by one they swooped through an open window 
on the second floor of an otherwise utterly ordinary house, landing one by one in an 
utterly ordinary computer room that just happened to have a corpse on the floor. 
The dead man was of median height, with a florid face and eyes that stared 
unseeing in death. He wore a white dress shirt, strained a bit across his belly, and navy 
slacks. He wore no shoes, and there was a hole in the heel of one of his hideous argyle 
socks. There was no blood, no sign of violence, but he was quite dead. 
“So,” said the eldest of Murder’s Daughters (for where there had been three plus 
three ravens now sat six women with hair as black as coal, “anyone know why this one 
called so strongly?” 
“Not I,” said the next in age. “But we all heard it.” The others all nodded. 
“Perhaps we could ask him?” said the youngest. “Surely he would know why his 
death called us here.” 
M I N D ’ S  
E Y E  T H E A T R E  J O U R N A L  
4D 


The third and fourth nodded in agreement, while the fifth, who was jealous of the 
youngest, said “Hmmph!” and turned away. The eldest pondered a moment, and said, 
“An excellent idea. Gwen, will you grant me the privilege ?“ The youngest flushed and 
nodded wordless approval. The eldest smiled, and shifted, and where there had been a 
woman was a raven. The raven stepped gingerly onto the corpse and peered at his eyes 
hungrily, then cocked her head at a curious angle. She stood that way for a long minute, 
while her five companions watched anxiously. Then, suddenly, she flew to the top of 
the monitor on the desk against the far wall and perched, agitatedly. 
“He’s not giving permission,” said the eldest, for Murder’s Daughters can under- 
stand the tongue of ravens while in woman’s form. “I’m not allowed.” 
“Just take it,” said the fifth oldest, anxious to outshine the youngest. “He’s dead. 
It’s not as if he can stop you.” 
The second oldest fixed her with an angry stare. “We must always ask. Even 
before we drink the eyes of the worst, the lowest, the foulest, we must ask. Raven 
taught us thus, and so we follow his teachings. To do otherwise is to invite 
disaster.” And the four eldest turned their back on their younger sibling, who 
blushed red with shame and anger. 
‘‘Perhaps I should try,” said the third eldest, who knelt before the dead man and 
whispered imploring words to him. She knelt as long as the eldest had waited, then 
shook her head as well and stood. “He wants nothing from us but abandonment.” 
The youngest stood when she heard this. The others all looked at her, save the 
nearest to her in age, who turned to stare pointedly out the still-open window. “Perhaps 
I could try?” 
“TWO 
of us have already spoken to him, girl,’’ said the second oldest. “What can 
you say that they have not?” 
The youngest said nothing to this, but only asked, “Please?” So the oldest and the 
second oldest looked at each other, and nodded assent, and the youngest changed 
herself into the form Raven had given her mother’s mother’s mother’s mother. 
And so, as a bird the youngest stood near the man’s face and asked the spirit of the 
dead man if he’d give up his eye to her. Wordlessly, she felt his assent, though she felt 
sorrow as well. And so she drank deep of his right eye, to see what he had seen in his 
last moments of life. The others watched in silence and respect and waited for the 
youngest to speak in her own time. 
She changed first, and this was something unprecedented amongst Murder’s Daugh- 
ters. Always one spoke of one’s visions of the dead while in raven form, out of custom. 
“Girl, what did you see?“ The eldest’s tone was ice, for she had a long respect for 
the way things had always been done. 
“Rutcher the body,” said the youngest, in a voice colder still. “Tear out his other 
eye. Make strings ofhis guts. Kill him all over again.” She turned to where the dead man 
lay on the, floor and spat on his now-bloody face. Then, eschewing raven form, she 
walked out the door into the house, and thus made her way out. 
[t was the one who was now the youngest who made the first cut, using a knife of 
bone that she’d taken from a dead man. After a second’s hesitation, the others joined 
in. By the time five ravens flew away from the house, the room was an abbatoir, the 
corpse a bloody ruin. 
.4nd the sixth? She stood on the sidewalk outside her father’s house and tried to 
forger what she had seen through his eyes, something that made it kinder to make it look 
as if he’d been murdered than to allow the truth to be found. For three hours and three 
more she stood there. Then, when the last red rays of the setting sun struck her, she 
changed to raven form and flew off to the west. Someone was waiting there for her, she 
was sure of it. And nothing waited for her in that house any more. 
S T R I N C ~  
QUABTET 
Qp 


M € T  PRFvIFW 
by Cynthia Summers 
it’s all you can think about. When’s it due out? 
Whatissueswillitaddress? How willitchn 
LAWSOETHB 
NIC~HT 
REDUX 
Why? Because it needed doing. 
Now that that’s out of the way, let’s get into the other stuff. 
After writing for and editing the revised edition of Vampire, I realized that 
Laws of the Night wasn’t going to hold up to the sudden influx of new material 
coming in. The World of Darkness was reinventing itself, and ye olde faithful Laws 
of the Night, as it stood, just wasn’t up to the challenge. Sure enough, the questions 
about a new edition of Laws of the Night started to pour in as soon as the news 
about VRev hit the press. I decided to bump the incipient Kindred of the East 
translation back somewhat on the schedule and prepare for a second edition of 
Laws of the Night. I did all this juggling within a few hours of suddenly receiving 
the job of MET developer - 
a scheduling feat something like watching the gates 
come down when one is in the middle of the railroad crossing. 
The writers I hunted down are some of MET’S best, bringing their experience 
as players and Storytellers to the task at hand. They include: 
Peter Woodworth- After auditioning with The Shining Host and further 
displaying his talents with Laws of the Wyld West, Peter was entrusted with the 
monumental task of writing up the sections on rules and drama, and also the allies 
and antagonists. In addition to all this, he’s going to school and is becoming a 
heckuva swing dancer. 
Jason Carl- Jason wrote the Storytelling chapters for Laws of Elysium and 
The Long Night, largely from his own experiences. I told him to write as if he were 
getting the chance to sit down with every Storyteller new to LARPing and every 
grizzled veteran who thinks there’s nothing new to learn - 
I hope you agree with 
me that he delivered as promised. 
Jess Heinig - 
The Mage developer comes with a long history of playing 
and Storytelling in California, and I gave him the monstrous chore of re- 
creating character creation, the clans and the Disciplines. A hefty task, one 
he was up to in spades. 


Now, the next big question on everyone’b minds - 
what’s been changed? 
Why should Joe Vampire go pick this new edition up and set aside his faithful, 
ragged Laws of the Night? 
For starters, I’ve sought to make this book user-friendly for everyone, whether 
the person picking it up is a longtime player getting the latest edition or someone 
extremely new to LARPing (or even the world of Vampire). Anyone can pick it 
up and start playing with a minimum of effort, and a new player can read the intro 
to get a sense of what’s happening. A new Storyteller has everything he needs to 
start a small chronicle in his living room, whereas a veteran can pick up some tricks 
to make his life easier when the new players arrive. 
The biggest effort came in when I incorporated anumber ofchanges that come 
not only fromvampire but also from some five years ofsteady LARPing experience 
in various styles and venues. Consider that the real playtest -years of rugged wear 
and tear to see what lasts and what becomes the bane of existences. For example, 
spending a Willpower now allows you only to retest on a Social or Mental 
Challenge, not to ignore it. This proviso eliminates the problem of some cheese- 
weasel thinking he can blow through an elder’s Malesty or using Willpower to avoid 
being trapped by a social Discipline so he can mulch someone else. Likewise, 
Humanity, Paths of Enlightenment and Virtue came under hard scrutiny - 
how 
“human” is a vampire with two Beast Traits, and how do you roleplay that? How 
do these nifty new Paths of Enlightenment fit into the grand scheme of things? 
From Vampire, I brought in things that I had worked on during the book‘s creation 
and editing, such as the problem of Malkavians in fuzzy slippers (grrr ...) or how to 
roleplay the tightening hold of a blood bond. 
Another major change to LotNZ is that the METstoryline has been advanced 
along with the tabletop storyline. The Assamites have broken their blood curse 
(and Quietus suddenly has some sinister new uses), the Gangrel have abandoned 
the sinking ship called the Camarilla and the entire clan of Malkav’s get has been 
infected with Dementation. These changes don’t mean you have to chuck your 
entire storyline to start marching along with our drumbeat - 
these developments 
occurred very much in secret (at this stage, even I don’t know how some of this stuff 
happened), and you may choose to have your game touched by them only 
peripherally (for example, as strange rumors from the East Coast). 
One question I’ve been hearing a lot is, “What happens to our old characters?” 
Don’t fret: thev don’t have to be retired. After all, it can be a lot of fun to 
’ 
through the mysteries of why the tetched Malkavian has suddenly become : 
tetched or what happens to city dynamics when the Gangrel as a whole tel 
Camarilla to go jump inalake. Asectiononupdatingcharacters has beeninch 
so chronicles can continue without missing a beat. 
And that is just some of what’s in store - 
hey, I can’t tell you everything 1 
would ruin the surprises)! So, if you’re new to Mind’s Eye Theatre and have 
looking for a place to jump in, come on in. If you’re a battle-scarred trooper 
thinks there’s nothing new under the moon, this book is for you too. 
Welcome to the World of Darkness - 
The Final Nights are upon us. 
Now that you know - 
or think you know - 
what’s in the new edition of La4 
the Night, kt’s take a look at what went into it from the writers’ perspectives. 


My own vision of Vampire centers around a deep love of its ancient politics and 
the highly delicate interactions between characters; happily enough, both are key 
elements to good live-action play. I believe the best stories for Masqerade games are 
modeled after such influences as The Usual Suspects, tales in which hard facts are 
concealed behind ever-shifting layers of personalities and deceit, and trust of any kind 
is a rare and often dangerous commodity. Unlike many Storytellers I have observed 
in the past, I don’t encourage total free-for-all backstabbing. Players tend to feel 
frustrated and have a lot of out of character disputes when they thinkabsolutely no one 
can be ever trusted. What true allies you do acquire in a Vampire game had better be 
ready to stand by you come hell or high water, though. Supernatural powers are the 
icing on this decidedly deadly cake, an element that forces characters to adapt and 
innovate constantly lest they fall prey to a vampire who has mastered more of her arts. 
Indeed, many of the basic Disciplines simply exaggerate existing human traits to a 
supernatural degree; therefore, it is little surprise that vampires are often overblown 
representations of what we dread we might become ourselves, from debauched artists 
to callous financiers to killers in the night. Imagine the paranoia a miserly millionaire 
feels when guarding his treasures then imagine the fear that comes when he knows his 
foes can sway emotions, change shape or even read his mind! 
Above all, the most persistent thought that came to me while I was working on this 
book was just how many people play Vampire in its live-action incarnation. The notion 
that what I was writing would have an impact on so many different games just staggered 
me. It felt a little like taking the stage on opening night after months of rehearsals or 
being called up to the big leagues for the first time after doing a season in the minors. It’s 
exhilarating, sure, but more than a little scary, too, when you realize that not only will 
so many people be reading your work but that they’ll be testing it constantly for things 
like fairness and playability as well. Add to that the fact that many dissatisfied souls will 
register their opinions of your work, your writing ability and your family tree on the Web, 
and you’ve got yourself a genuine writer’s Maalox moment. Fortunately, my trusty troupe 
pulled me through the worst early jitters, and I acquired a whole new appreciation for 
a game I had thought I’d gotten to know top to bottom over the last six years. 
Vampire turned the gaming world on its ear when it was released; Masquerade 
did it again with the introduction of live-action gaming on a large scale. Now the 
revised Vampire is turning heads and rocking worlds, and I hope that Laws of the 
Night 2nd Edition can carry on that proud tradition. Semper Vitae! 
- 
Peter Woodworth 
I started preparing to write the Storytelling chapter of this book long before 
Cynthia asked me to contribute. Of course, I just didn’t know that I was preparing for it. 
Isn’t that the way these things often happen? My primary source of ideas was the stack 
of Storytelling notes I’d been compiling since discovering MET some six years ago. 
Before I actually wrote anything, I forced myself to wade through this morass of half- 
finished thoughts, lengthy polemics and nuggets of genuinely useful wisdom. The notes 
reminded me of an old adage: I learned a hell of lot more from my failures than from my 
successes. My most useful ideas were the results of Storytelling experiences that didn’t 
turn out quite the way I expected or hoped, but it was clear that most of my errors could 
have been remedied with some frank and solid advice from more experienced Storytell- 
ers. So that’s what I decided I wanted to contribute to this book: In addition to providing 
novice and experienced Storytellers alike the basic tools of the trade, I wanted to offer 
alk about what it really means to tell stories for this game. 


However, I didn’t want to ignore the things that a Storyteller really needs to 
know in order to run a successful game. I tried to pay particular attention to those 
aspects of the game that have evolved most dramatically and rapidly. For example, 
the first edition of the game presumed that Storytellers would run relatively small- 
scale games of limited duration. These nights, it’s not uncommon for Storytellers 
to work with groups of fifty players or more and devise plots that endure for years 
of continuous play - both of these considerations demand a change in the way 
Storytellers approach the game. Likewise, greater access to the Internet and the 
World Wide Web has changed the way Storytellers operate. The game no longer 
ends when the players go home, and tonight’s Storyteller must take this extended 
access into account or be drowned in a flood of e-mail. 
The actual writing process is rather a blur in my memory, which, I suppose, is 
a mercy of sorts. I do recall that I was sometimes frustrated in my attempts to 
provide adequate information to the reader without straying too far from my core 
concept. I also remember struggling with the right way to express certain ideas as 
clearly as possible without over-burdening the reader with unnecessary detail. 
Fortunately, Cynthia offered plenty of direction, and that helped me stay focused 
- 
Thanks, Cynthia! I think it’s appropriate that I also thank Melissa, my 
wonderful and beloved wife, for her steadfast support and for ignoring the constant 
sound of breaking glass that accompanies my writing efforts. 
If1 could add anything to the manuscript I submitted, it would be a few more 
words to Storytellers present and future: You’re an indispensable part of this game 
we all enjoy with such fervor, and, whether or not we take the time to tell you, 
we value what you do. 
Thank you! 
- 
Jason Carl 
So there I was, playing an eighth-generation Tzimisce and getting pummeled 
severely by a 13 th generation Lasombra who’d been created only minutes before. As his 
Obfuscated cohort escaped (defeating my Advanced Auspex, no less) I buckled under 
the force of the Potence-backed blows and thought, “This is seriously screwed up.” 
Having just participated in the writing for the Guide to the Sabbat, I knew that 
a lot of our existing Vampire material was sorely out of date, and Laws of the Night 
was no exception. Laws of the Night had been compiled as an attempt to put together 
a lot of out of print rules and to make accessible everything one needed to play live- 
action Vampire, all in an easy to carry format. It proved a smashing success, but many 
of the rules that it used originally had been taken from older material in The 
Masquerade Second Edition or, more decrepit still, the halcyon days of The Masquer- 
ade Players Kit. The book tried to reconcile the differences between the first and 
second editions only halfheartedly; the idea was to make everything accessible, not 
necessarily to rewrite all of the rules. Furthermore, the material had always been geared 
toward small groups playing a few times. With the predominance of larger, longer- 
running games- and clubs like the Camarilla, boasting thousands ofplayers in a global 
continuity- this approach just didn’t work. Laws of the Night was showing its seams, 
and the material was pretty worn, too. 
So, in my brief tenure as the Mind’s Eye Theatre developer, I settled on 
pushing up the schedule for a revised edition of Laws of the Night. The sooner, 
the better, I thought; besides, we wanted to address all of the changes in the revised 
M E T  PREVIEW 
6 


Vampire quickly. That rush moved the book up to a year after the release of 
Vampire Revised. Even after I moved over to the Mage line and Cynthia Summers 
stepped up to Mind’s Eye Theatre, the book stayed on schedule. However, the 
increased pace meant writing a lot of material very fast, and we had only a few 
writers lined up for live-action. So, a large chunk of the book‘s writing fell to me. 
“No problem,” I thought (as I often do when beginning daunting projects), “I 
have a handle on writing live-action material. I wrote stuff for Laws of the Hunt 
and I play enough to know what to fix, what works and what to change.” 
If ever there was proof that a game developer can be wrong in his estimation ofhis 
own material. Nonetheless, I pressed on, making a list of what needed to be addressed. 
First: Fix the Disciplines. The idea of Disciplines with widely varying numbers ofpowers 
just appalled me and seemed unfair. I wanted to put everything back to five levels of power. 
Second: More detailed character creation. Specifically, Backgrounds had 
been included in a lot of other MET books since Laws of the Night; why leave 
them out of Vampire? The Beast Trait system also seemed to miss some of the 
points of Vampire -vampires who don’t fear fire or sunlight or don’t feel hunger? 
Time to change that. 
Third: Clan write-ups that don’t explain the clan are of limited use to the 
players. Admittedly, a lot of the original live-action material depended on players 
who were familiar with the tabletop game, so describing the clans seemed 
redundant. The prevalence of silly Malkavians, absurd Ravnos and gangster 
Giovanni showed that a lot of people either weren’t reading the tabletop books or 
hadn’t been exposed to them. Many first-time players found the clans confusing 
and hard to differentiate from one another. It was time to fix that, so expanded 
write-ups and notes on how to play each clan seemed like a good idea. 
... so I was sitting in front of the computer 50,000 words later, and itstill wasn’t 
done. I had waiting playtesters, an overly-patient developer and a headache. 
The most important thing I learned from writing for Laws of the Night ?The 
Devil’s in the details. 
In tabletop games, a lot can be left to interpretation. Small groups of five or 
six players can decide on their own variants of rules, and Storytellers can use what 
makes sense for their games. 
In live-action, the game often has 15 or more players (some even number in 
the hundreds), and it has to run for several hours without a hitch. Nobody can afford 
to stop and argue about rules for two hours. Every eventuality must be covered, from 
what happens when two people Summon the same victim at the same time (the 
subject goes to the summoner with the best generation) to whether it’s better to 
compress Blood Traits for ease of play (you wanna carry around 14 cards saying 
“vitae” and try to keep track of them all?) at the risk of skewing some of the systems. 
Then, we had to include the changes to Merits and Flaws, the new Influences 
introduced in Laws of the Hunt, specializations, conversions from previous 
editions, the new Necromancy and Thaumaturgy paths all in the greatest detail 
possible, while staying concise enough to fit in a trade-size book. 
I hoDe you like what you’re getting. Now that all is said and done, it’s hard to look 
e’ve produced and judge it impartially. So we leave it to you to decide, 
Nut saying this: You’re sure getting your money’s worth! 
einig 


1 I l . t :  L v r w y ~ r u u r -  - 
- 
This classic includes everything you need to enter the world of the Kindred. In this 
game, you no longer simply play a vampire - 
you are the vampire. 
The quick and easy pocket-reference to Mind’s Eye Theatre. It allows you to 
concentrate on the game by putting the rules right in your hands. 
This resource is the complete guide to creating, maintaining and running a vampire elder. 
It also contains extended Disciplines for The Long Night. 
- 
Laws of the Night - 
- 
Laws of Elysium - 
The Book of Ghouls - 
when you’re dead, but here you find what you can 
- 
Mortals are the playthings and puppets of the World of Da 
to fight back. Take back the night with Laws of the Hun1 
The Long Night takes you into the Dark Medieval world of t ~ t :  
I L L I ~  LCIILUI y ~ I I U  
makes 
your Kindred character the undisputed master of the night. 
Completely revised in a handy pocket-sized edition, this book brings the rules of 
Werewolf: The Apocalypse to the live-action stage. 
“Live”-action roleplaying in the lands of the dead, Oblivion takes the passion and horror of 
Wraith: The Oblivion and translates it into the Mind’s Eye Theatre setting. 
decide 
- The Long Night - 
- 
Laws of the Wild - 
- Oblivion - 
- 
The Shining Host - 
A complete Mind’s Eye Theatre rulebook on the world of glamour, enchantment 
and age-old mystery - 
the world of Changeling: The Dreaming. 
Getting In The Mood 
Vampire’s Book of Nod and Revelations of the Dark Mother 
are “in-character” tomes that tell of the birth of vampires, 
which can be used as a actual props 
in your Masquerade and Long Night games! 


ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD 
QUFSTIONS 
I 
The constant evolution of Mind’s Eye Theatre brings new and different 
questions to the game. In this issue, howewer, I tackle some questions and issues about 
I 
the world of LARPing in general, as well as some guidelines fm the Journal itself. 
How do I get my LARP event 
listed in the MET Journal? 
This one’s pretty straightforward, 
though I’ve never put the guidelines 
down in an official format. Basically, 
what I’m looking for are World of Dark- 
ness LARP events that occur with at 
least monthly frequency. Your game 
doesn’t have to be a Camarilla game or 
part of a large association, but it does 
have to be aMind’s Eye Theatre World 
of Darkness game. Just e-mail submis- 
sions to me (carlawhite-wolf.com) in 
the following format, and I’ll add you 
to the growing list: 
Your LARP’s Geographic Region 
Your LARP’s Title; the City and State you play in 
Your LARP’s Frequency (Avoid specific dates, as the Journal gets written 
Your Contact Person’s Name and an e-mail Contact Address 
Your Contact Person’s Phone Number 
months before you see it in stores.) 
(Oh, and put “MET Journal Event Horizon” in the subject line of your e- 
mail so my mail filters don’t choke or send it off to oblivion.) 
(How do I/can I) submit articles, stories and columns for publication in the 
MET Journal? 
I get this one a lot, and I must say I’m proud of the enthusiasm this little 
quarterly’s garnered already. If you want to pitch me an idea for a future article, 
here’s what you do. First, check out the White Wolf web site (www.white- 


wolf.com), go to the “Games” link and scroll down to the “Writer’s Guide- 
lines” link. Read through the part about submissions to find the Non-Disclosure 
Agreement. Print out a copy of that form, fill it out, sign it and mail it in. 
Without this completed form, I’ve got to toss your submission in the recycle 
bin, so don’t forget it. 
Then, when you’re pretty sure I’ve gotten your NDA form, send me 
an e-mail with the title “MET Journal Article Query” or just “MET 
Journal Article,” and pitch me your idea. You can also snail-mail the 
submission, along with your NDA, to the address listed on the first page 
of the Journal if you like. 
It’s best to send a query for article submissions first (“Hey, I had a great idea 
about werebats in MET”), because I might have a similar idea already in the works, 
or I just might not be ready to place your piece yet. In either case, it’s better to ask 
first rather than send me a completed article only to find I can’t use it. 
As far as specifics go, that’s pretty much it. I look for articles that convert 
rules from our tabletop books into live-action (please, query about these first) 
rather than completely new rule sets. I also seek out articles on the state of 
LARPing in general, outside the game. And, of course, you’ve noticed that I 
print letters and event-listings as well, so if you want to see your name in print, 
by all means, get my attention. 
What can I do to get my LARP sanctioned by White Wolf? If I’m using 
a variation of MET rules, can I still play? When is it okay to charge admission 
to my LARP? 
I put these questions together because I hear them all the time, and they’re usually 
asked in packs like that. And because I’m sure you want to know, I’ll make the official 
pronouncement: 
You can charge legally for a White Wolf LARP if you are using official 
White Wolf rules, books and item cards, and the only things you can photocopy 
and distribute to players are the character sheets. Adhering to these guidelines 
won’t make a game an “approved White Wolf story-line” or anything like that. 
That’s done through the Camarilla. These standards simply allow you to charge 
money for your events without violating our trademarks. 
Does this statement mean you can’t run your game “based on White Wolfs 
World of Darkness” with its streamlined system or its house rules (or Mage rules 
or werewombats)? Nope; that’s not what it means at all. It just means that you 
can’t charge folks an admission fee legally. So don’t panic. We won’t slay you. 


MIND’S E Y E  T H E A T R E  J 
tsigane@wizards.com 


Dan Paqe, Allm 
