1
L 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


5 1  7 9 5  
9 781565 M73n3 
I S B N  1 - 5 6 5 0 4 - 7 3 6 - 3 -  
W W 5 0 1 6  $ 1 7 . 9 5  U . S .  
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


a1 and supernatural elements are flct 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


agree, believing myself more than capable of handling things, but I did often 
willingly took on whatever assignment I gave him, 
had, and accepted all my scorn as being merely the 
osted - 
he had managed to score much higher than 
rsity, and he babbled that he owed it all to me. It was like 
with shame. I had abused him, and he thought I was his 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


savior. For the first time, I underst 
instead of savoring it, I felt dirty. 
I continued to see Kenji and 
it. He was always a gentle soul, always polite, even to those w 
Years passed, and Kenji and I went to university. Though apart, 
on me for advice, and I would give it when in the mood. More and mor 
friend, but there was something creeping into me that I could not define. 
in the face of a1 
ke a man of similar 
wandered into the path of a bus. 
If I thought I could erase my sin, myself, from the world, I w 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


When that first br 
ant him to have a 
t will do more for his 
isery I created. For Kenji, for the woman who will be 
all around me, these Kenjis, who have been abused 
I shall let Heaven be the judge of the Kenjis. I shall be the judge of their 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


eplaying games of the  O OS, is ju 
can still recognize among cu 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ave a name 
Playing Mind’s Eye Theatre is like being in a movie. You and your fr 
portray the main characters, but the script follows your decisions. The director of 
this improvisational movie is called the Storyteller. He, along with his assistants, 
called Narrators, creates the stage and the minor characters with whom you 
interact during your adventure. Most scenes play out in real-time, and always in 
character. You should only break character when a rules dispute or a change of 
scene requires adjudication from the Storyteller or Narrators. 
- 
When you play Laws of the East, you take on the persona of a soul returned 
from the hellish ravages of the Underworld to fulfill an unfinished destiny in the 
world of the living. You walk above society’s laws, preying on mortals to survive, 
yet you must also obey the moral and temporal laws that your own beliefs and your 
role of the greater scheme of things ordain for you. Discipline is everything 
(whether you find it in adhering to the ways of your higher self or in directing the 
raging Demon within), for without discipline you are nothing but a mindless 
monster that is better off destroyed. It is a path beset with perils to challenge even 
the sturdiest soul, filled with moments of transcendent enlightenment and periods 
of despair and frustration, and only those who master themselves can hope to 
prevail. Your character can be anyone from any wal 
character concept (besides the rules) is your imagination. 
then roleplay her over the course of a story and 
connected stories). You decide what your charact 
risks to accept or decline. 
During the game, you speak as your character, unle 
Narrator or Storyteller. Because most of what a Mind’s 
perceives depends on the characters around him, pl 
expressive. The characters direct the plot, but a 
game guide and develop the characters, helping 
To an extent you have a responsibility as a player in a 
beyond portraying your character. You need to consi 
your role in making sure that other players enjoy the game. 
Creating a character for Laws of the East is e 
moments. Once you’ve taken the few necessary step 
you can play the game. There’s another phase to crea 
that makes playing Mind’s Eye Theatre all the m 
should be more than just a series of Traits and numbers. Rather, she should be a 
living, breathing personality with a past, motives, drives, likes, dislikes - 
every- 
thing you want to see from a character in a movie or anovel. It’s a good idea to take 
time to figure out who your character is as well as what she is before you start playing. 
While certain details and personality traits will emerge after you play her a few 
times, you’ll want to have the basics in place before you start playing. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


s great. However, calling t 
Sunday to discuss an ide 
other matter entirely. Mak 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Characters are the heart and soul of a story. Without them, all the patient 
efforts of the Storyteller would be for naught. Appreciate the Storyteller’s efforts 
by following the rules and taking an active part in the game. 
ww-ss 
In Laws of the East, Narrators are the people who h 
adventures. Narrators are the impartial judges who desc 
cannot be staged. They adjudicate rules and occas 
antagonists as well. Generally, enlisting the aid of oneNarrat 
makes for a good ratio. The best number of Narrators for your 
on the gaming experience of the players; the more experie 
probability the fewer Narrators they’ll need. Narrators u 
their own as well as helping out certain situations. That 
the action instead of just trying to correct it from the outside. 
smv=w 
Every game must have a Storyteller who serves as the ultimate authority 
final judge in any game of Laws of the East you play. 
basic elements of the plot and makes sure that the story 
to doing everything the Narrators do. Storytelling is a de 
a very rewarding one, for it is the Storyteller who create 
the players build their experiences. 
The Storyteller makes certain the story has content, interesting hooks and a 
narrative flow. Not that a Storyteller should just sit back and dictate the plot - 
characters who don’t have free will are no fun to play. Instead, a Storyteller creates 
the elements of the plot, then turns players loose in order see what happens. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


be watchful and ready to create new 
t well. He is also responsible for safety, 
ng to do and that everyone is abiding 
om comes a 
re your very eyes. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


and repressive in our world lengthen into nightmare shadows that loom over every 
part of their citizens’ lives. 
However, the Middle Kingdom encompasses more than just the gothic 
ambiance or punk rage of the rest of the World of Darkness. It is a world where the 
supernatural is not only recognized but expected, where the legacy of ancient 
civilizations and the traditions they established make it possible for the worlds of 
spirits and men to interact. Understanding this relationship, and the attitudes that 
stem from it, is a crucial step in understanding the Middle Kingdom as a whole. 
ri s m  
Supernatural beings exist in the same array of varieties that can be found in 
the West, even if their methods are different. Vampires (Kuei-jin) stalk city streets 
while shapeshifters (hengeyokai) prowl the wilderness, and magicians (chi’n ta) 
ply their secret arts. Ghosts (kuei) haunt the living from a dark world just beyond 
their senses, while faeries (hsien) punish those who dishonor the ancient ways. 
Many of the same ancient rivalries and hatreds of the West can still be found here, 
such as the enmity between vampires and werewolves, but a sense of belonging to 
a larger community of spirit beings binds all together under a common destin 
sorts. Most Eastern supernaturals use the Chinese term “shen” to express 
unique bond with each other. 
Shen also take few precautions against discovery in the Mi 
Discretion is of the highest importance to all shen, from the courts 
to the packs of hengeyokai, and those who flaunt themselv 
disappearing or at least receiving a painful lesson o 
their manners. Fortunately, the legends and superst 
hold the supernatural to be a fact of life, as inevitable 
death and taxes, and this acceptance provides the shen 
as they do not overstep their traditional bo 
barbarian has wandered into a city slum only 
patron of some kind, who exists in full sight of the c 
favors in exchange for their silence about his existen 
would rather leave the Night People to their matte 
attitude which helps keep the shen from prying eyes more than anything 
mm=iY-=: 
m Y w D  xwq 
The central aspect of the philosophy of the shen in the Middle Kingdom is the 
belief in Yin and Yang, the negative and positive elements that make up the 
universe. Yang is the force of life, creativity and action, while Yin is the force of 
death, negativity and passivity. Yin is often personified as the Ebon Dragon, while 
Yang is called the Scarlet Queen. Care should be taken to understand that Yang 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


y evil. As the shen understand it, both 
Yin and Yang are far from m 
realm itself derives 
The Middle Kingdo 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


trails here. Entering here can mean a quick end for an unwary Kuei-jin u 
has some unusual friends or is especially strong or clever. Farther away from the 
Middle Kingdom, the Yang realms become fantastic beyond compare, resembling 
mythic lands, nightmares and much more. 
The Yomi World is not truly a spiritual land of its own, but a collection of 
corrupted portions ripped away from the Yin and Yang Worlds made into personal 
havens for demons known as Yama Kings. These powerful creatures command 
immense realms where they collect and torture the souls they have snared in their 
evil designs. These realms are often twisted beyond imagination, serving only to 
inflict pain on others at the amusement of the reigning demon lord. These realms 
vary in size according to the power of the demon lord and the number of lesser 
demons in its service, but now smaller demons are finding defiled areas to call their 
own in this modem age of suffering. This trend bodes ill indeed for the Middle 
Kingdom, as the spread of Yomi poses a direct threat to the balance of Yin and Yang 
that keeps the universe in harmony. Eternal enemies of demons, most Kuei-jin 
work to stop the spread of Yomi, if for no other reason than to exact revenge for 
the time their souls spent being tortured before reanimating their bodies. 
cnt 
The direct representation of Yin and Yang in the Middle Kingdom is k 
as Chi, a spiritual force 
concept to grasp, especi 
battery” or equate it to 
movies. Chi encompasses both n 
tance. Chi is what makes the t 
in the first place. Chi is the sp 
energy of life and death, the 
apart. On a very basic level, Chi can be seen 
disposition - 
a person with a high amount of 
impassioned Yang soul. Similarly, moments of 
Chi, while times of sadness and introspection 
prove, Chi is not simply a static quantity, but ra 
changing in accordance with joss. An ancient libra 
calm Yin aura around it, but it could change t 
of violence occurs within its walls. 
All beings use Chi in their daily lives - 
eating, breathing, working, even 
sleeping - 
but their actions also generate it, a great give-and-take that helps 
maintain the universe. For all but the most exceptional mortals, the amount of Chi 
they can use is minimal, as is their awareness of it. Many shen - 
especially 
hengeyokai and hien- are potent cultivators of Chi, and they work to ensure that 
their supplies are maintained. All shen are aware of Chi more intimately than 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


natural way. As walking dead, they do 
to avoid imbalancin 
of death that Yin 
fatalism also comes from the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


time, the Wan Xian lea 
disobeying the August Personage of Jade and waging countless bloody wars. Their 
hunger grew until the universe could stand it no longer and karma balanced things 
by levying a terrible curse on the Wan Xian. The greedy immortals, who hungered 
so much for the Chi of others, would live no other way, cut off from the universal 
flow of Chi. Not truly dead, but never to be truly alive again either, theirs was a 
punishment to make the pillars of Heaven shake with its terrible weight. Having 
levied this great indictment against the Wan Xian, the August Personage turned 
his gaze from the Middle Kingdom, and as he did, the walls between worlds 
thickened and cries to spirits went unheeded. Only spirits of great savagery and 
hate could break through to become Kuei-jin, and thus, those who had been meant 
to guard humanity became its burden. They had become the Wan Kuei - 
the Ten 
Thousand Demons. 
Now, the Fifth Age (the Age of Darkness) encircles the world, and the debt 
to the gods looms large overhead, crushing modem Kuei-jin beneath its burden. 
Most Kuei-jin give in to selfishness and short-sighted pursuits, and only the wisest 
and most dedicated souls have the ability to pursue their true state, be it god or 
demon. From the Yomi World, the Yama Kings laugh as their ancestral 
pledge loyalty to them in exchange for petty morta 
world groans as violence and despair escalate on a gl 
(else there could be no darkness), but it is all the more 
deeds are looked upon with cynicism and suspicion. 
already it has left its bloody mark on the world. 
once more, reaching the lowest point of the Great Cycl 
madmen say, will come the Sixth Age, the long-fabled Age 
it is said the Yama Kings will emerge triumphant over the 
in an even greater orgy of depravity, carnage and mise 
obliterated during this time, and the world will be thrown 
is a time whispered of in frightened voices, for the signs are 
to dispute the dark times that have fallen on the world. 
other shen dismiss tales of the Sixth Age as superstition, 
them into line, but others are not so sure, and many se 
in the new world order “just in case.” Those Kuei-jin 
especially disturbed at the similarity in legends of Gehenna, and some clandestin 
exchanges are in the making between elders of East and West as to how to deal with 
this threat. 
Many say the Sixth Age is but another turn of the Wheel, and for all its terror, 
the universe will right itself again eventually. Some optimists even hope the Sixth 
Age can be abbreviated or circumvented back into a glorious First Age once more, 
’ 
However, the Wheel of Ages is known as such for a reason, 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


d of everything, but ultimately only 
es of the Yomi World that the P'o 
errible moments as the two parts of the soul face 
ithout the enraged strength of the P'o t 
make it on its own. Both are necessary t 
efalls them after that is up to them t 
e, bringing bodies long drowned back 
0 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


s of their own commu 
“new arrivals” and instruct them in the ways of their kind. 
f- 
o ~ S o u L ( ~ ~ y i w q / D ~ D ~ l o ~ / ~
Most of the time, future Kuei-]in are captured by others of their kind and, if 
deemed worthy, brought before the local Kuei-jin population for judgment as to 
whether or not they merit training. Those who resist capture too savagely, or who 
are deemed unworthy of the trouble of training, are destroyed on the spot, their 
souls sent spinning forever into the Yin or Yomi realms. Those who are considered 
worthwhile are immediately assigned to a mentor, or sifu, to begin their training, 
often along with a group of other young Kuei-jin. This mentor is a pivotal figure 
in the life of one of the Hungry Dead, as the lessons she imparts and the methods 
she uses to teach them will remain with a Kuei-jin long after a hundred mortal 
lifetimes. 
This training period is known as the re‘. Training takes place for a minimum of 
one year, typically five and sometimes even up to 10 years. Many elder Kuei-jin 
ruminate on how this study used to take two entire cycles of the zodiac (24 years) 
before the arrival of the short attention spans that accompanied the Age of 
Darkness. During this time, the hin (students) are entirely at the mercy of theirs 
every aspect of their existence carefully monitored and every decision clo 
scrutinized. Studies vary from mentor to mentor, but all invariably include lessons 
on etiquette, history and the unique philosophies the Kuei-jin have developed 
regarding existence. Mentors often stress physical and martial training, both as a 
KI (Japanese vamp 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


I as well as a nod to the violent tenor of 
natural Disciplines during this time, 
t the situ and the natural talents of each student. Finally, 
hasis on meditation, prayer, structured debate and 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


is focused and disciplined a 
that joss has bestowed on hi 
ment nonetheless, and all 
y, one can grasp the greater dest 
t, however dark, remains enlight 
the Ten Thousand Joys of serv 
Outside of the sifu, elder Kuei-jin often track the progress of individual 
students and confer on those who are best suited to each Dharma. If auspicious 
circumstances smile on a particular student, sometimes a great master arrives to 
take over her training personally. Regardless of instruction, however, finding or 
choosing a Dharma is a crucial time for a hin, because although a Dharma may be 
changed due to tremendous events in a student’s life, it is never a decision made 
lightly. Changing one’s Dharma is tantamount to saying that one’s actions until 
then have been misguided at best - 
outright foolish at worst - 
and it results in 
having to relearn vampiric existence from the ground up once more. 
Five Dharmas, each associated with afundamental part of Kuei-jin existence, 
are commonly recognized: the Howl of the Devil-Tiger (Po), the Way of the 
Resplendent Crane (Hun), the Song of the Shadow (Yin), the Path of a Thousand 
Whispers (Balance) and the Dance of the Thrashing Dragon (Yang). 
r=dL 
Once a Kuei-jin has received her Dharma, direction and recognition in the 
eyes of her fellows, she enters a period of freedom called the bu, 
during which she 
is allowed to revel in her vampiric state somewhat and come to terms with her 
mortal days. Often constrained to one mortal lifetime, during 
jin - 
known as a Running Monkey because of her fascina 
world - 
is allowed to fix old scores, deliver final messages to loved ones 
otherwise resolve any issues she might have regarding her 
way, the Kuei-jin believe, the vampire gets to flex her new mus 
harmless way, as well as remove any distractions related to her 
might interfere with her future duties to her fellows. In the West, 
prince might still weep over a beloved doll lost 600 year 
husband long since turned to dust. By revisiting their old liv 
lingering questions they might have, new Kuei-jin not only s 
of the transformation that has occurred, but they prevent th 
blockage that occurs from being forbidden to acknowledge their ol 
Running Monkey time is over, a Kuei-jin should be tired o 
fleeting world of mortals and ready to move on to her tru 
individual once more. 
Many initiates are given specific goals to accomplish during this time as well, 
based on their direction and the nature of any wu they might be part of. How well 
these tasks are performed has a great impact on the nature of the reception the 
Kuei-jin will finally receive when joining the court proper. This period is also 
perhaps the one time when the new vampire is allowed to make mistakes and 
receive forgiveness from her elders (or at least less severe punishment). The rigid 
rules in place during the re are lifted, but the Kuei-jin is not expected to maintain 
a normal court position yet. In these dark days, many bu are cut short at the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


eing more free to make their way 
also use this time to express their 
rtal and immortal society. This 
s or intentions threa 
est contacts withi 
t encompasses the disposition of its 
gue-in-cheek references 
from those who hear it, a 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the p n x i  becomes seco 
influence or great perso 
and provide certaingifts to them, but those Kuei-jin who pursue a relationship with 
their nushi actively may reap such benefits directly instead of metaphorically. Like 
the name of a wu itself, a nushi typically represents the purpose of a wu - 
a warrior 
group might choose a nushi such as one of the Three Storms (Thunder, Rain or 
Lightning), while a peaceful one might select a wise entity such as Tengu or 
Butterfly. Nushi are not limited to elemental or animal spirits, however. An 
honored ancestor or public figure might also serve as a nushi if properly contacted 
and appeased. Many elders view the choice of nushi as one of the most revealing 
traits of a wu’s character, and how well they honor that spirit reflects heavily on 
their reputation as a whole. A well-treated nushi may pull characters out of the fire, 
while one that is constantly offended might withdraw its aid at the worst of times 
or refuse aid entirely until properly appeased. 
thinkable barring powerful de 
If the basic building block of Kuei-jin society is thew, then the most common 
structure built therefrom is the court. A court is a body formed from one or more 
wu that oversees a certain duty or a specific physical territory. One court might 
preside over a large but relatively unpopulated area of countryside, for exam 
while a large city such as Hong Kong might be divided into several smaller co 
by district or purpose. Unlike the wu that compose them, co 
very clear political or social purpose, such as maintaining 
addressing concerns raised by other local shen. Since most wu c 
serve, or are assigned to it due to the talents of their members, 
excellent level of cooperation within a court, as the wu have 
its success. Most courts, especially those concerned 
mortals, have a great deal of temporal resources at th 
as Scarlet Screens and are vital in the shadow plays of the 
corporation owned by Kuei-jin or their servants classifies as a 
government agency, tong or triad controlled by one of the 
Western vampires, used to the paranoid back-stabbing 
amazed to see how wu politely carry out missions 
courts. They are unused to the value that the Kuei-jin 
respecting one’s place within society. However, these 
erode as young kyonshi adopt the rebellious and impu 
Therefore, many courts are that much more strict with 
seeking to squelch any sign of dissension, which in turn feeds youthful dissatisfac- 
tion and starts the cycle anew. 
Indeed, while a great deal of harmony exists on the surface in most courts, the 
politicking and maneuvering that occurs behind closed doors is as vicious as that 
of any other ruling body. Favors owed, toadying, personal prejudices, wu grudges, 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


e over one or more courts. 
that move the wheels of 
in Kuei-jin society, the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


justification.) In this terrible and violent Age, many wu are lost on one mission or 
another, and many more disciples lose their way and spiral back to the Yomi World. 
However, if joss is on their side and they mind the lessons that their Way teaches 
them, players will eventually find themselves granted the honor of being consid- 
ered “jina,” or gurus. It is a position with a bit more freedom but naturally more 
responsibility to accompany it. 
As the next rung on the Dharmic ladder, jina are the next most common type 
of Kuei-jin encountered after disciples, but since they have managed to escape 
some of the drudgery of a disciple’s existence, their eyes are more open to the 
possibilities of eternity. The title of jina is awarded when a disciple reaches a state 
known as ling, or the realization of his true power and how to control it. The primary 
responsibility accorded to jina is to look after the training of hin and disciples, and 
many of them form a close bond with their younger counterparts and identify with 
them more readily than more distant elders. Jina are not forgiven as many errors 
as disciples are (after all, they are expected to know better now), but likewise, they 
are allowed a greater freedom to speak their minds and suggest policy for the court. 
They must still obey the wishes of mandarin 
missions for the court, which are expected to 
level of enlightenment. However, the missi 
those given to disciples. While a wu of disc 
of hengeyokai, a wu of jina would be charged with forgi 
conflicts. Unless a chronicle is particularly longrun 
most players will attain. 
caste unto itself, and Kuei-jin politics mirror this notion. Above statu 
considered the final authority in all but the most p 
as mandarins, who act as spiritual advisors to jin 
and arbiters of disputes. Mandarins may also hold spe 
talents, such as Spirit-Battling General or Mistress of 
word holds absolute authority in these areas. Despite 
Kuei-jin affairs, mandarins are fabled for their i 
manner of rites, traditions and customs unkno 
are loath to admit it, few Kuei-jin understand 
of a mandarin, especially since the status is conferred based on a high level of 
Dharmic advancement and mandarins are accordingly powerful in their own right 
outside of their office. As those who pass final judgment and select ancestors and 
other powerful offices, however, mandarins seldom need to use their personal 
powers day to day. Others are wise enough to know that mandarins can make 
Chinese society accorded intellectuals a special status in society, a1 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


v 
h 
__ 
out wasting one iota of their personal 
It take 
1 individual to d 
nce, since the met 
rld for centuries - 
achieve a near- 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Kuei-jin history, few arhats have ever been reliably noted. Many bodhisattvas 
choose to stay on Earth a while longer, or pass centuries puzzled by a final question. 
Thus arhats are almost mythical creatures, holy men and legends without par. In 
these final stages, the arhat becomes entirely solitary until her essence is finally re- 
absorbed into the Great Cycle and her Dharma at last resolved. Tales persist of an 
arhat appearing to smite some great evil (or perpetrate it, in the case of Devil-Tiger 
arhats), or to reward a faithful seeker along his own Dharma, but while such stories 
would certainly be within the power of an arhat, no instances have ever been 
substantiated. 
Obviously, bodhisattvas and arhats are beyond the scope of players’ charac- 
ters, and they should appear rarely even as Storyteller characters in most chronicles. 
They represent the essence of the vampiric ideal in the Middle Kingdom, and they 
are just as difficult to reach. 
r i o  9- 
~y-91~9 
MJ-E 
R
R
~
 
AK-mWlY 
There are those who fall between the cracks of the rigid structure of Kuei-jin 
society, whether by personal choice or force of circumstance. Unlike the undis 
plined policies of the Western devils, Kuei-j in society permit 
souls in its midst. One is either part of court and country or d 
them. There is no middle ground. 
n y w i W  
Derived from a Japanese term meaning “half-person,” hei 
have turned their backs on Kuei-jin society, often because 
personal wishes are completely irreconcilable with the ways 
This status can also be given as an option to those who hav 
and their court but who still merit unlife. Heimin are out 
backing from their home courts or ancestors, and they are trad 
rootless vagabonds without place in the world. Most elders will n 
speak in their presence, nor will elders allow talk of them in any o 
- 
heimin truly are “non-persons’’ as far the mandarins are c 
less, as long as they continue to pursue their Dharmas (0 
succumbing to their P’os), heimin are allowed to exist in rela 
who parted gracefully from Kuei-jin society often retain informal ties with their o 
sifus, jina or even their old wu. Indeed, many courts employ heimin as couriers in 
these dangerous times, granting them freedom to travel from court to court in 
exchange for swearing powerful oaths to uphold their given task. All these 
arrangements occur off the record, but the practice is becoming increasingly 
common. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ave is that heimin will come in contact 
disobedience of the c 
his pronouncement is fueled more by 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


v 
for study are foiled swiftly), 
t to destroy those who bear 
touch of the Yama Kings. Most courts will go to great trouble to avoid pronouncing 
a Kuei-jin to be akuma, but no expense is spared to enforce the severity of the 
verdict once such adeclaration has been passed. Nonetheless, even with such strict 
punishments, more duma have been created in the past few hundred years than 
any elder would care to see, a fact that is often whispered about as a sign of the 
impending arrival of the Sixth Age. 
RES IocKjm IN t B q 4 0 N Y t  
KUEj=jiN &l‘frUDES r0W-D 
THE 0- 
s m  
As indicated previously, the Kuei-jin see themselves as one extended spirit 
family, and while their mythology places them as first among their brethren, they 
still recognize the divine right of the others to exist. Indeed, interaction with other 
shen is often a basic fact of unlife in the modem world, and some wu even include 
several hengeyokai or hien as friendly “unofficial” members. Such alliances are 
rarely permanent, however. 
-9EXOrPi 
( ~ - ~ = X O - W )  
Once there existed as m 
cably pitted against the Kuei-jin, who represent an 
that has forgotten the purpose Heaven once had for 
forms, but all share at least three in common. Those 
Hakken - 
The wolf-shifters are the most commonly encountered type o 
hengeyokai for Kuei-jin, as well as the most deadly. The basic social unit is th 
pack, and each pack moves as one heart and serves a nushi of its own - 
often a 
natural spirit or animal kami. While they respect strength and honor, all wolf-folk 
possess powerful tempers that can lead to a Kuei-jin’s rapid undoing. Most of the 
wolf-shifters feel they are the front-line soldiers against the decay of the world, and 
they have accordingly large chips on their shoulders, which tends to make their 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


e pacts with the centipede devils, the 
ns the flames of fear. 
earth, and their blood is said 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


wherever they are found, the Nezumi are not far behind. Now largely confined to 
cities thanks to the bullying wolf-shifters, the rat-folk are masters of intrigue and 
information-gathering, often serving supernatural courts as counselors or infor- 
mants. Adept as they are at finding hidden passages and traveling in tight quarters, 
many Nezumi also work as killers and plague-bearers, although few will whisper 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


d hiranyu (he-ran-you), animal-fae 
over them. While hsien carry faerie selves 
. 1  . 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


d, with over a billion souls in 
place beyond the dreams o 
Western wraiths. Many oppressive regimes exist in the mortal world, and the 
violence and despair these governments engender creates many wraiths. Even 
without the help of such governmental evil, however, the ordinary trials and 
tribulations of life ensure that some spirits cannot find the final rest (or punish- 
ment) that they deserve upon their deaths, and so the Jade Kingdom adds another 
soul to the emperor’s coffers. 
As indicated in the section on the Yin World, the afterlife of the Middle 
Kingdom is known as the Jade Kingdom or the Yellow Springs, and it is presided 
over by the First Sovereign Emperor of the Dead, Yu Huang. The emperor’s 
Immortal Guardsmen ensure that any talk of rebellion is quashed, and they battle 
the demons and other wicked spirits that threaten Imperial citizens. The four 
Ministries of the empire ensure prosperity throughout the realm and monitor 
relations with the barbarian souls of Stygia in the West. Great families of the dead, 
whether born of actual blood ties or simple need, sail shifting currents of alliances 
how the emperor would like to 
strict, orderly, hierarchical fac 
where ancestor-worship and absolute obedience to the established order 
rapidly fading notions. While 
reaching a boiling point in th 
Middle Kingdom. Wraiths ar 
are, and they know many oft 
they drag them down into Oblivion. 
wraiths are unwilling to let 
Many wraiths (enraged at the di 
vampire however they can, wh 
Those who keep this tene 
who don’t seldom remai 
The Dark Kingdom of Jade. 
For more on the Jade Kingdom, see the Wraith: The Oblivion supplement 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


astered his Dharma. 
cording to Kuei-jin legend, the current ruler 
Personage will step down in the Sixth Age 
a vampire who has nearly attained 
main as a teacher to other Kuei-jin. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


s yet to attain the enlightenment 
(Note: This term does not have the same meaning as a “clan” in the Kindred sense.) 
Court -A group of Kuei-jin who join together due to common spiritual or 
material goals. Similar in many ways to Western groups as anarchs, but a court also 
often claims a specific geographic or sociological area as its protectorate. 
Diih - 
“All-Awareness,” recognized by Westerners as Golconda and achieved 
by very, very few. 
Daimyo -Japanese term for ancestor or house leader. 
Demon Emperor -In Kuei-jin myth, the ruler who will replace the August 
Personage of Jade at the coming of the Sixth Age. Some hold that this figure will 
be one of the Yama Kings, while others contend that Yu Huang of the Jade 
Kingdom will claim the office. 
DCn -A small satori, or flash of insight, which makes things clear. Indicates 
progress in a Dharmic journey. 
Diao - 
A stumbling block in pursuit of Dharmic advancement, when the 
vampire becomes lost in the mortal world and its illusions. 
Disciple -A student who studies a specific school of enlightenment or under 
an noted master; in the Kuei-jin context, a vampire who has just begun 
Dharmic journey and who has little status in Kuei-jin so 
Dharma - 
A Kuei-jin’s path to dah. Derived from 
older Kuei-jin prefer. 
Direction - 
Astrological distinction that allegedly 
personality and duties. Five directions exist: north, south, 
Dragon Line -A line of strong Chi that connects two 
Knowledgeable shen can transport themselves along dragon 
known as “Moon Bridges” in the West, while Yin bridges a 
Dragon Nest -An area of strong Chi and a weak Wa 
as Haunts, caerns, freeholds, nodes, etc. 
Ebon Dragon - 
Hun Dun, first lord of the Dead. Considered 
of Yin, now whispered to have been destroyed by the Ja 
others contend the Jade Emperor is just another guise of 
Fire Soul - 
Frenzy. 
Fivefold Way - 
The five principles which the original vampiric bodhisattv 
Gaki - 
A loose term for Japanese Kuei-jin. 
Genji-myo -A “noble house” of Japanese vampires involved with modem 
Ghost Dancer -A Cathayan whose duties involve dealing with the spirit 
Xue taught his disciples. See Great Principle. 
corporate culture. 
worlds; a common term for those of the west direction. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


A Chinese term 
ecifics of the vampiric c 
thor of the Ki Chwm, a Kuei-jin holy 
e Kindred, or a Western vampire, 
1 lifetime during which the Kuei-jin 
his duties under Heaven. 
impudent and often Weste 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


similarity to Lilith of the West. See Scarlet Queen. 
Nushi -A spirit which has adopted a particular wu and acts as its patron and 
protector. If the bond is strong enough, the nushi can even offer some of its powers 
to the wu. Similar to Lupine pack totems. 
Oni -A Cathayan who makes excessive use of the Demon Shintai Discipline 
(see raksha) . 
Palace - 
A communal meeting place for the Kuei-jin of a court or region. 
Often, but not always, the haven of the most powerful court or ancestor. 
Penangalkn-NameforcertainmatriarchalsectsofvampiresintheGoldenCourts, 
who hone the Fksh Shmtai Discipline to perfection and revere the Scarlet Queen. 
P’o - 
The dark, “lower” half of the soul. Known as the Beast to Kindred. 
Quincunx - 
A sect formed by five important Chinese courts. 
Raksha - 
Name for P’o-aspected vampires, especially ones who make 
frequent use of the Demon Shintai Discipline. 
Road Back, the -The trials and events along the met 
Kuei-j in travels while heading toward enlightenment. Also use 
to indicate the events occurring from the moment of the Secon 
Running Monkeys - 
Slang term for young Kuei-jin, those 40 years 01 
younger. Also a Kuei-jin insult for Westerners, who are believed to act childlik 
no matter what their true age might be. 
Satori - 
A sudden flash of enlightenment that turns 
down. This process can take years or occur in an instant of clari 
it happens, the world is never the same. See &n. 
Scarlet Chi - 
Yang Chi (of the type used by vampires). 
Scarlet Queen - 
Legendary female progenitor of the K 
tative of Yang (traditionally a masculine force). Compared to 
Scarlet Screen -A mortal or mortal institution used as an 
for Kuei-jin activity. 
Second Breath, the -The return from the spirit worlds; the 
Shadow Soul - 
Period when a Kuei-jin’s P‘o becomes domi 
Shadow War - 
Formally declared, ritualistic combat between Kuei 
or courts, usually conducted in very subtle and precise power plays and bac 
maneuvers rather than outright attacks. Can be (very) deadly, 
a bold and honorable means of airing aggressions. Midnight War is the term used 
when two groups declare a no-holds-barred, all-out feud between them; obviously, 
Midnight War is seldom declared formally. 
Shen - 
Any supernatural/ Awakened being. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


m _ .  
:11 
1 
to harness persona 
d teacher; also knc 
m _ .  
:11 
1 
e 
I 
vitch-hunters renowned for martial arts 
11 Chi with amazing results. 
)wn as master, sensei, sabom or tetsu. 
anese term for a court 
welladhdefived from that principle. 
inciple of death, as well as Chi derived from 
bri bloodline in the West; Xue’s first 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


6 
P
d 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


1 
Without characters, there can be no game. Each player takes on the role of a 
character, a persona within the context of the game. To guarantee that all players 
use the same potentials and capabilities for their characters, the rules of Mind’s Eye 
Theatre provide a single simple set of guidelines for character creation. 
Arguably the most important step in character creation is the formation of the 
basic concept. Before death, every vampire was once a normal human, with hopes, 
fears, dreams and ambitions. Once the Road Back begins, however, the character 
brings her particular views to her new unlife. These strengths and weaknesses shape 
the character’s Traits, capabilities and limitations. 
The first step in creating a character is to come up with a basic idea of the 
person. This initial concept can be summedup in a single word- warrior, scholar, 
diplomat, playboy, peasant. Don’t worry about details now; think more in terms of 
broad brushstrokes. Create the person, before you create the vampire. 
9rU(m 0- 
SOUL -ssLsy~r, D~F-o~ 
p y D  D- 
With a base concept in mind, determine your character’s Chi balance. Doing 
so filters your concept through a different lens than just a simple idea. For example, 
a scholar concept inclined to Yin is likely a distant, impartial bookworm of a 
researcher, while a character with the exact same concept but who is inclined to 
Yang is more likely to be an outgoing, energetic field researcher. A scholar inclined 
to Balance would have a measure of both ends of the spectrum but not be overly 
inclined to either. It’s fine to break stereotypes, of course, but the decision of 
balance affects how your character looks at unlife in a very primal way, so choose 
carefully. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The choice of direction is also an important choice in a character’s develop- 
ment. Direction adds a sense of role to a concept - 
continuing with the scholar 
concept from before, a scholar of the north direction is likely a meticulous and 
demanding researcher who thrives on objectivity and perfection. A scholar of the 
south direction, on the other hand, is more likely to be a subversive writer who 
challenges established doctrine with her work. A scholar of the east would be more 
inclined to seek out eyewitnesses as opposed to dry book research, while one of the 
west direction would probably be interested in the spiritual and philosophical 
questions raised by her work. One of the center would look toward the value that 
she and others can gain from her field. Again, it’s fine to break stereotypes, but 
remember that most Kuei-jin find that their directions suit them well - 
if not 
always in the way they expected. 
Finally - 
and most important to playing the game - 
you must answer the 
question of Dharma, the philosophy that guides the character’s actions toward 
redemption on the karmic cycle. While some Kuei-jin have their Dharmas forced 
on them by fate or authority, they arise more than likely from the expression of 
feelings the Kuei-jin instinctively knows to be true as soon as she begins her Road 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Back. A Dharma is more than just a set of ideas to which one gives lip service. It 
is the very essence of the character and her outlook on her place under Heaven. 
Never choose it lightly. 
Natural capabilities use Attributes for descriptions. Every character has 
certain innate qualities. Attributes describe these qualities, marking a character’s 
particular areas of intrinsic talent. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


, w  
I 
-0sYYq 
lknvsum 
Each character has areas of modest skill and other areas of excellence. You 
determine your character’s natural talents, selecting whether your character is to 
be physically adroit, mentally agile or socially adept. The character’s concept 
should guide these choices, so a martial-artist is likely to be physically exceptional 
while an investigative reporter probably has more social development. 
Physical Attributes measure your character’s general health, stamina, 
agility and power. A character with modest Physical Attributes is probably not very 
athletic, while a character with high Physical Attributes is exceptionally strong, 
dexterous or tough. 
Social Attributes determine the force of a character’s personality and her 
ability to interact well with others. If your character has few Social Traits, she may 
be awkward, shy or just plain-looking. A socially potent character is attractive, 
compelling or smooth. 
Mental Attributes help in problem-solving, learning, deduction and gen- 
eral alertness. With limited Mental Attributes, a character is not particularly 
well-educated, quick-thinking or perceptive. Conversely, a mentally focused 
character is attentive, logical or intuitive. 
Choose the priority of your character’s Attributes. Each character is stronger 
in some areas than in others, at least at first. Obviously, Dharma and concept shape 
these Attributes to some degree, but only a broad outline is needed in this step. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


W O S ~ Y ~  rw= 
Once you’ve decided on your character’s inherent strengths, you should 
describe exactly the sorts of exceptional characteristics he possesses. In your 
primary area of Attribute development, choose seven Traits; in your secondary, 
choose five; in your tertiary area, select three Traits. Traits are adjectives describ- 
ing the character, just like the descriptions in a novel or play. Thus, a Mentally 
focused character might be more Intuitive than Rational, or a strong Physical 
character could be Brawny and Tough but not very Quick or Nimble. 
A complete list of Traits starts on p. 71. Pick Traits that describe your 
character as if you wanted to write down the particular qualities of the individual. 
You can pick a particular Trait multiple times, if you like, to denote spectacular 
depth in an area. 
s m r i = t a v W M  
No character begins play unformed and without education. The skills and 
training picked up in the course of life, and the friends made among various fields 
of work, all gift a character with special resources. Furthermore, vampiric powers, 
called Disciplines, come from the Chi energy powering all Cathayans, granting 
them superhuman capabilities. Collectively, these advantages are learned or 
developed benefits not inherent to one’s raw potential. 
Advantages are divided into several categories. Abilities represent skills or 
training, allowing characters to perform tasks. Backgrounds are connections 
among the mortal and immortal communities, representing such diverse facets as 
friends, social standing or Cathayan patrons. Disciplines are powers derived from 
Chi, arts carefully cultivated during a character’s r6 period. Lastly, Chi Virtues 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


represent part of the composition of a character’s soul, how the positive and 
negative energies balance within him. 
c+t-siYg h i w w  
Select five Abilities that represent your character’s education and training. 
Whether learned in mortal days or honed after death, Abilities set apart your 
character by letting her attempt tasks that less skilled compatriots cannot under- 
stand or complete. You can choose an Ability multiple times, if desired, to show 
greater expertise. A complete list of Abilities starts on p. 80. Note that your 
Storyteller may restrict some Abilities. 
-0SlYg 
DPciPrlYM 
Select three Basic Disciplines for your vampire character. You must select 
them in the order listed (that is, you must take the first Basic level before taking 
the second Basic level in any given Discipline), and you can only take the Basic 
levels at this time. Remember, at least one of the first Disciplines you take must be 
a Basic Demon Art - 
representative of the legacy of darkness already inherent in 
every Kuei-jin. 
Kuei-jin Disciplines are divided into several categories. Shintai Disciplines 
seek to master the immortal form and its relation to the world. Chi Disciplines tap 
into and alter the universal energies at play all around. Soul Disciplines allow the 
Kuei-jin to control his dichotomous natures and dominate the spirits of others. 
Demon Arts express the talents of the character’s dark side. 
A complete description of Disciplines is found in Chapter Four. See the 
previous table for a quick list of the Disciplines in each category. 
- o s i Y g ~ q r ( o ~ Y D s  
You may take five Background Traits for your vampire. Each Background 
represents a tie to a particular agency, organization or resource, whether mortal or 
Cathayan. You can have up to five Traits in any Background, though your 
Storyteller may prohibit certain Backgrounds based on your concept. Most 
Storytellers will scrutinize heavily any Background above three Traits. 
Background descriptions start on p. 93. 
Your character begins play with four Traits to divide among her Yin and Yang 
scores (characters begin with one Trait in each Virtue already). Remember that a 
character is considered permanently imbalanced toward a particular virtue if their 
cw v h =  
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


permanent ratings are three or more Traits apart. (Yin 5 and Yang 2, for example, 
indicates a permanent Yin imbalance.) 
Characters whose Yang rating is out of balance in relation to their Yin rating 
tend to appear very much alive, and they shake off wave soul easily. They can also 
fall prey to killing rages due to their high emotional levels, and they have trouble 
concentrating on long-term goals. 
Characters withy in ratings much higher than their Yang tend to appear much 
more corpselike and indifferent to the suffering of those around them. Due to their 
emotional detachment, they also have little trouble quenching fire soul when it 
arises. 
Characters whose Yin and Yang ratings are fairly close may exhibit signs of 
both ends of the spectrum (especially if their temporary Chi levels differ greatly), 
but almost never to extremes. 
For more on Chi imbalance and its effects, see pg. 206. 
STEP Ruy: ~ ~ o u u + E s  
The final character Traits come together once concept, direction, balance, 
Dharma, Attributes and advantages are chosen. Your last touches include Soul 
Virtues, Chi Traits, Willpower Traits and Dharma Traits. They also offer a time 
to personalize your character further through the selection of Free Traits, Merits, 
Flaws and Negative Traits. 
Soulv!qrurs: mq P9'0 
Beginning characters receive one Trait in their Hun category and three Traits 
in their P'o category - 
a mark of the savage drive required to rend the Wall and 
return to the living lands. 
Both Traits may be improved by spending Free Traits, but beware of raising 
one too far in favor of the other. A soul stifled by order is just as impaired as one 
riding high in the grip of the Demon. 
These starting totals may seem to favor Po-oriented Dharmas such as the 
Devil-Tigers, but there is a difference between controlling the Demon and having 
it control you. As they cultivate the darkness within themselves, Devil-Tigers must 
always strive to stay one step ahead of the Demon, since their own plansstrengthen 
its hold. 
*rRpirs 
Each vampire has a certain number of Chi Traits, or energy at hand. This 
energy can be used for avariety of different tasks, from temporarily improving one's 
physical prowess to healing wounds to powering Disciplines. You may hold up to 
10 Traits of each type of Chi at a time, but be warned that habitually holding more 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


energies than your character’s body can handle often has extremely irritating (if 
not outright lethal) side effects. For more on Chi imbalances, see p. 206. 
3/yWOWWii+ 
When you exhaust all other avenues, your Willpower measures your innate 
drive for self-preservation, your sense of mental fortitude and your ability to resist 
temptation and defeat. You can use Willpower Traits for a variety of tasks, like 
redoubling your efforts in a task or resisting supernatural coercion. 
You come into play with two Willpower Traits, since it takes a tough soul to 
return from the ravages of Yomi. The maximum Willpower available to a character 
is determined by the Dharma. Characters cannot purchase more than four 
Willpower Traits until their Dharma Traits have reached a correspondingly high 
level - 
a character with six Dharma Traits may have up to six permanent 
Willpower Traits, for example. 
You may choose to have a card for each Trait of Willpower you possess, and 
you must turn the card over to a Narrator or Storyteller when you expend 
Willpower. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


DW-mWn 
You begin play withone trait in your character’s chosen Dharma, representing 
the first faltering steps your character has taken toward enlightenment and karmic 
freedom. If joss flows in your favor, you may find yourself acquiring more Dharma 
Traits following certain auspicious occasions. Besides enlightenment, Dharma 
offers certain game benefits as well, from higher Willpower totals to being able to 
absorb Chi from different sources than simple flesh and blood. 
If moments of blindness strike and your Dharma Traits ever fall to zero, you 
are reduced to a chih-mi, a mindless flesh-eating monster, and the character must 
be given over to Storyteller control until either a Dharma Trait is restored or the 
monster is destroyed. 
Y w * r w  
Some characters have particular weaknesses or shortcomings. Others just 
never developed in some fashion, or they suffered injuries that set back otherwise 
strong attributes. Such hindrances are represented with Negative Traits. Though 
Negative Traits are not required, they represent a deficiency or injury in your 
character. 
Since few people actually want to play a character with handicaps and 
problems, Negative Traits grant bonuses in other areas of character creation. Each 
Negative Trait taken is good for one Free Trait later. You may take up to five 
Negative Traits, though you should not take more than three Negative Traits in 
any one Attribute category. 
Unlike other Attributes, you should only take Negative Traits from the list 
here. Although there are certainly other adjectives that would describe a character’s 
drawbacks appropriately, nobody can be expected to guess aTrait that isn’t covered 
in the rules. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Remember to take Negative Traits that you can roleplay accurately and well. 
The Storyteller may force you to “buy off Negative Traits that you ignore 
consistently. 
A complete listing ofNegative Traits, and how they affect play, begins on p. 11 7. 
Representing specific deficiencies or drawbacks aside from inherent weak- 
nesses common to many people, Flaws showcase particular problems. As with 
Negative Traits, Flaws grant additional Traits to the user. Each Flaw is rated in 
terms of its value, ranging from one to seven Traits. The higher the value, the more 
debilitating the Flaw. A character may total up to seven Traits of Flaws, though 
elder characters may have more Flaws. After all, age takes its toll.. .. 
c+toos~y~ 
w
s
 
Flaws begin on p. 1 17 . 
Because no two Cathayans are alike, each character gets an allotment of Free 
Traits to spend on any area of development desired. If you want your character to 
be socially adept but also intelligent, for instance, you can use Free Traits to 
improve your Attributes so that you have a high number of Traits in both 
categories. You could decide to use Free Traits for extra Backgrounds if your 
character has strong mortal connections, or for Disciplines if she has studied her 
vampiric powers especially well. 
Each character gets five Free Traits at this stage. Additional Free Traits come 
from Negative Traits, Flaws or derangements taken earlier. One Negative Trait 
grants a single Free Trait. Flaws have variable values listed individually. 
Ffwmv 
One Free Trait can be spent to take an additional Attribute Trait. 
One Free Trait allows for an additional Ability Trait. 
AsingleFreeTrait allows you todeclare aspecialization inone Ability Trait. 
One Free Trait converts to an additional Background Trait, though subject 
One Free Trait can be used for an extra Po Trait. 
Three Free Traits can be used for an extra Chi Virtue or Hun Trait. 
Three Free Traits allow for an extra Willpower Trait, subject to Dharma 
Four Free Traits can be used to purchase the Basic level of any one 
Merits have a variable Free Trait cost, depending on the individual Merit. 
Remember that each Ability can only have one specialization. 
to normal Storyteller approval. 
limits. 
Discipline, in the usual progression, subject to Storyteller approval. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Merits, the antitheses of Flaws, represent special bonuses and capabilities 
beyond the norm. Each Merit is rated in terms of its Trait value. To take a Merit, 
you must expend Free Traits equal to the Merit’s value. You can take no more than 
seven Traits of Merits, though some older vampires may have more. 
Merits start on p. 11 7. 
Your character is more than a summation of Traits and adjectives. At this 
stage, take the concepts that you’ve emphasized and develop a story for your 
character. Look for explanations to why the character learned certain things, failed 
in others and developed as she did. Think about the sort of person that you’re 
playing and the motives of the individual. 
These considerations are especially important for players in Laws ofthe East, 
most of whom are generally unfamiliar with Asian culture. While one is not 
required to become a cultural expert in order to play the game, some basic thought 
is required to avoid descending into crude stereotypes and broad character 
generalizations. Players are encouraged to look into the regions and cultures their 
charactets will be drawn from. Not only does this research help them step more 
fully into their roles and understand their character’s point of view, it also helps 
other players get more into character themselves while increasing the overall 
ambiance of the game. 
Mortal Background - 
Think about the mortal life from which your 
character came. Where and when were you born? How were you raised? What sort 
of education did you have, if any? Did you believe in the occult from an early age 
or dismiss it as mere superstitious fantasy?Did you have any particularlyspectacular 
successes, failures, romances or businesses? If a character’s past is shallow and 
hastily drawn, chances are good that the final character will be too. 
Yomi - 
You died, and when you did, you spent time in Hell. Sit back a 
minute and let this really sink in. Your character has experienced worse tortures 
than any living mind could possibly comprehend. Even so, simple suffering is not 
enough - 
what moment, what purpose finally gave your character the strength to 
escape Hell itself in order to return to his body? What does he remember of his time 
in Yomi? How does his experience there color his outlook on existence? Did it rob 
him of any joy, or did it simply sharpen his appreciation for life that much more? 
The Second Breath - 
Fleeing Hell is but the beginning. How did your 
character first view life as a vampire? Was it a curse, a blessing or something else 
entirely? When did you first encounter others of your kind? Who was your sifu, and 
how did she train you? Was she cruel, kindly or simply indifferent? Did your 
character fit into the rigid hierarchy of Kuei-jin society naturally, or does it still 
chafe him? When did you first meet your fellow wu members, and why did you 
choose to be with them (or did you have a choice)? A character’s introduction to 
court and the world of the Kuei-jin should be a time of great ceremony and 
mystique, andnoKuei-jingraduates intosociety without someopiniononthematter. 
TheRoadBack-Like it ornot, allKuei-jinmustadmit tosomegreaterplan 
than the mundane world. What does your character think of direction and 
astrology in general? How did your character first decide on the Dharma he follows? 
Was it forced on him by his teacher, revealed to him in a dream or simply an 
extension of his existing attitudes? Does he tolerate those of other Dharmas, or are 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


there some he simply cannot stomach? As Dharma and direction often form the 
backbone of all the character’s other motivations, it is important to consider how 
he views each of them in relation to himself. A character who follows his path out 
of a sense of cosmic destiny behaves much differently than one who believes he is 
laboring under a divine punishment. 
Secrets - 
Secrets are one of the major commodities of Kuei-jin society. Do 
you have any secret regrets? Hopes? Ambitions? Do you know something that 
you shouldn’t? 
Motivations - 
Dharma is one thing, but also take time to figure out why 
your character interacts withother Kuei-jin and how hedeals with vampire society 
in general. Do you seek personal gain? Are you hunting someone or running from 
persecution? Perhaps you want to impress your sifu or find a mortal companion. If 
you have trouble figuring out why your character would show up in the game, ask 
a Narrator or Storyteller for a couple of possible motives. 
Appearance -The Road Back is seldom kind to a character’s appearance. 
Yimaspected vampires are usually chilling to behold, and even the most lifelike of 
Yang-aspected Kuei-jin often exhibit some subtly monstrous traits. On a mundane 
level, consider also how your character stands, walks, holds a cigarette or dresses. 
Equipment - 
Your character’s Backgrounds may grant access to certain 
pieces of special gear. Whether you have a silk kimono, a katana or a jade necklace, 
you should talk to your Storyteller to make sure that your character’s gear is 
accounted for. You can have a card for each special item that you carry, represent- 
ing the object in question (especially for weapons, armor and other conspicuous 
devices that you shouldn’t be lugging around in real life). 
Quirks - 
Everybody has distinctive behaviors. These things can be 
anything from constantly pushing hair from your eyes to saying a prayer before 
every battle. Such a mannerism serves to show off your character’s uniqueness. A 
quirk can even be used to distinguish you when in disguise or using Disciplines to 
possess another body. Or you could copy someone else’s quirks.. .. 
A character’s personality is affected a great deal by his Chi Virtues. A 
character whose Yang rating outstrips his Yin is likely to be edgy and constantly on 
the go, while a character with a Yin rating surpassing her Yang will typically be far 
more cool and collected, even callous. A vampire who favors neither extreme 
overly much is said to be Balanced, her living and dead aspects in harmony. 
Although the Trait ratings for the Chi Virtues are not assigned until later, a 
character’s Chi balance is chosen early on because of the effect it has on the 
remainder of the character creation process. A character’s Chi balance should 
influence every step, from choosing Traits (a character with a high Yin isn’t very 
likely to have many Energetic or Quick Traits) to Disciplines (a Yang vampire is 
obviously more likely to choose the Yang Pram Discipline). 
YiN 
Called “ebon worms” (though seldom to their faces), vampires with high Y in 
scores are at home with all things dead and dying, and a quiet moonlit night is like 
a balm on their troubled souls. They make no pretense at being the least bit human 
- 
though many are attractive in a pale, Goth-ish way - 
and they perform many 
of the unpleasant tasks their more squeamish cousins shun, a reason many other 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Kuei-jin find them uncomfortable to be around. Skilled necromancers and natural 
liaisons with the Underworld, it is Yin vampires who frequently work to appease 
angry ancestor spirits and tend to the neglected graveyards of the Middle Kingdom. 
Freed of human standards they held in life, Yin Kueidjin pride themselves on their 
efficiency, pragmatism and their contemplative natures. The fact that other beings 
would classify thase same traits as merciless, unfeeling and morbid means little to them. 
weakness: Vampires of Yin are vulnerable to the element of wood, which 
represents Yang. Wooden stakes paralyze them just the same as Western vampires. 
The challenges required to do so are identical, as are the effects. Note that metal 
stakes do not affect Yin vampires, only wooden ones. 
.Rum 
Those Kuei-jin whose Chi Virtues are equal, or close to equal, are said to be 
aspected to Balance. They are all things their fellow vampires are not: equal parts 
dead and alive, Yin and Yang, light and dark. With such a philosophical standing 
in unlife, it is only natural that some of the finest sages among the Kuei-jin are 
found among the Balanced, since this state fosters many meditations on the nature 
of vampirism and the place of the Kuei-jin under Heaven. Many fine warriors 
follow the path of Balance as well, since that philosophy stresses the perfection of 
being and mastery over the divided self that the vampire has become. Kuei-jin of 
Balance are perhaps the easiest of their kind to approach, since they are typically 
the most comfortable with what they have become, and they see their state not as 
a curse to endure but a riddle to puzzle out. Yet, paradoxically, by having the best 
grasp of what it is to be Kuei-jin those of Balance are perhaps the most desirous to 
transcend that state. 
Weakness: Vampires of Balance cannot be staked. That’s the good news. The 
bad news is that Balance is a delicate condition, and therefore the Kuei-jin is 
considered temporarily imbalanced any time that he possesses two or more Traits 
of any one type of Chi than its opposite. When thus imbalanced, any use of Chi 
has the potential to provoke a bad reaction. 
YAW 
These “scarlet dragons” embrace all things living with the characteristic 
passion of Yang, and they are the most lifelike of the Kuei-jin, determined to cross 
the Wall into the living world once more. Their flesh is hued, they eat and drink 
normally, and they can even consummate a union with a mortal (though whether 
that mortal lives to tell of it is unlikely). Despite all their new powers and 
sensibilities, however, they are still unable to enjoy the pleasures of life the same 
way they once did, which is a source of endless frustration for them. For this reason, 
vampires of Yang are the Kuei-jin most likely to regard their state as a curse or some 
form of karmic punishment, a sentiment for which they are teased constantly by 
their more Yin-aspected cousins. The “hot blood” of Yang also makes them 
dangerous to be around at times, since these Kuei-jin are quick to fly into rages and 
demonstrate other lapses of self-control. However, when the zeal of Yang is focused 
toward attaining a specific goal, the scarlet dragons become ferocious figures 
indeed, and their warriors are legendary among the Kuei-jin for their bravery 
and determination. 
Weakness: Yang vampires are vulnerable to metal, the element of Yin. A 
metal blade or shaft thrust through their heart disrupts their Chi balance and 
paralyzes them just as a wooden stake does for Kin-jin. Bullets, metal-tipped arrows 
and the like do not cause this effect - 
it takes an impaling hit from an all-metal 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


weapon at least a foot in length. Otherwise, the tests required to stake are identical 
to those for staking a Cainse, as are the results. 
One of the reasons the Kuei-jin know that they are superior to the Western 
rabble is that no vampire of the Middle Kingdom floats around without purpose. 
Every being has a role under Heaven, and the Kuei-jin take their assigned duties 
very seriously. One of the primary means of determining the celestial obligation of 
a particular Kuei-jin is her direction, the astrological sign which points to the 
duties she is to carry out along the Road Back. Direction is assigned as part of the 
initiation ceremony into Kuei-jin society and is passed around the cardinal points 
of the compass, with each point corresponding to different predispositions and 
duties. While some directions are traditionally associated with certain Chi 
balances-north and west toYin, south and east to Yang- the turmoil of the Fifth 
Age has seen even those ancient laws fall by the wayside. 
Direction should not be seen as a straitjacket on roleplaying, but rather a 
gentle suggestion of how a character is expected to act, especially by superstition- 
prone elders. In this manner it is similar to the auspices of the hengeyokai or the 
Western Garou - 
other characters will view a character's behavior through the 
lens of direction, but that is all. How seriously the vampire regards the duties of her 
direction is up to her, her wu and the court involved. A vampire of the east need 
not always work among mortals, nor should one of the west always be plumbing the 
spirit worlds. However, many Kuei-jin find over time that their direction suits 
them in surprising ways, even if they bridled at the suggestion that their personality 
might be dictated by the stars. Heaven knows the truth of a Kue 
North - 
These Kuei-jin are the magistrates, arbiters and tradition-keepers 
of vampire society, passing judgment on their fellows and upholding the Fivefold 
Way. Typically, though not always, attuned to Yin, these Kuei-jin are seen as cold 
but fair and given a wide berth by other vampires. They take a very dim view of 
those who flout Kuei-jin tradition, and they have even less regard for outsiders who 
interfere in vampire affairs. Woe to anyone, mortal or shen, who violates a law laid 
down by one of the north. North's color is black, and its lucky number is six. 
Common Nannes: Curmudgeon, Director, Fanatic, Judge, Traditionalist 
West - 
Those vampires of the west are the tie between the worlds, 
maintaining relations with the dead and exploring the many spirit realms. Even in 
the bizarre world of the Kuei-jin, these vampires tend to be regarded as eccentric, 
since their extended contact with spirits typically gives them many curious habits 
and superstitions. In the Middle Kingdom, these Kuei-jin act as the messengers and 
agents of the mandarins, and they carry out their dictates vigorously. They are also 
responsible for seeing that the will of the spirits is interpreted and enforced, even 
if it means acting as executioner from time to time. Their color is white, and their 
number is nine. 
Common Natures: Autocrat, Conformist, Deviant, Loner, Survivor 
Center-Vampires at the center of the Great Wheel are the essence of Kuei- 
jin society, those who look inward while their fellows attend to the matters of 
Middle Kingdom. These Kuei-jin explore their own nature, and they help guide 
others to finding their place under Heaven. Many vampires of the center direction 
help in the training of younger Kuei-jin, which makes them are more attuned to 
the concerns of the young than their contemporaries and offers them a better 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


picture of the grave state of the Fifth Age than most. Some center vampires shun 
the company of their kind and quest into the wilderness or the spirit worlds to seek 
enlightenment, but whatever their path other Kuei-jin respect their insight. Their 
color is yellow, and their number is five. 
Comma Natures: Deviant, Loner, Martyr, Trickster, Visionary 
East - 
These Kuei-jin are the “harvesters,” those who walk among mortals, 
seeing to it that all is harmonious. They ensure that an ample food supply exists for 
their fellow Kuei-jin, maintain Scarlet Screens, preserve the secrecy of the shen, 
punish those who overstep their bounds (including overzealous Kuei-jin) and 
otherwise monitor the mortal population. Vampires of the east direction typically 
feel very at home with mortals, and they are adept at manipulating them to achieve 
the results they desire. However, they are also the Kuei-jin most likely to try to 
return to their old lives, which invariablyresults in disaster. Their color is blue, and 
their number is eight. 
Common Natures: Architect, Bon Vivant, Caregiver, Conniver, Director 
South- Wild and unpredictable, Kuei-jin of the south direction are the force 
that keeps the Wheel of Ages turning with their ceaseless activity. This duty puts 
them at odds with more traditional elders, but even the stodgiest mandarin will 
admit that when it comes to creating breathtakingly original art, winning impos- 
sible battles or deciphering an inscrutable enemy, one need look no further than 
a vampire of the south direction. Their duties give them a high casualty rate 
compared to other Kuei-jin, but those south vampires who survive long enough to 
temper their actions with wisdom become some of the most formidable minds in 
Cathayan society. These Kuei-jin lead vampire society - 
and destroy it. Their 
color is red, and their number is seven. 
Common Natures: Bravo, Gallant, Martyr, Rebel, Visionary 
Be, do not Do, for in Doing there exists fault, but in Being, none. 
- 
Zen saying 
Without question, the single most important factor in the Road Back is a 
Kuei-jin’s choice of Dharma, for it is the path that guides his every action from the 
first moment of unlife to its ultimate conclusion. A vampire who follows the 
Dharma of his destiny may still be cut down by the dictates of joss, but one who fails 
to follow his Dharma will never reach his goal, even if he sees the passing of ten 
thousand years. 
Western vampires of the “Camarilla” cling to their humanity and regard their 
unlives as a constant struggle to preserve what once was. The Kuei-jin regard this 
practice as pitiable, even laughable, for such vampires are denying all the evidence 
of their very senses - 
they are no longer human, and never will be again, so why 
try to preserve a state they can only lose in the end? By the same token, the Kuei- 
jin have nothing but disdain for the mindless monsters of the “Sabbat,” who seek 
toride their “Beast” insteadoftrulyunderstanding it. A Dharma is muchmore than 
feeling sorry for oneself or reveling in one’s monstrous nature. It teaches its 
adherents which actions are wise and which to avoid, it colors their attitudes and 
dealings with others, and it even offers them a taste of the enlightenment necessary 
to regain the good graces of Heaven. It is not a simple series of rules (though each 
ri-vvSr 0
~
8
~
~
9
 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Dharma has basic guidelines followers would do well to heed), but a Way of the 
soul, a Way of being. This fact puzzles those Kuei-jin who try to pinhole their 
Dharma into “to-do” lists and otherwise uphold the letter rather than the spirit of 
its teachings, not realizing that a Dharma has as many gray areas as life itself and 
cannot be confined to mere words on a page. Countless variations have appeared 
throughout the ages, and disputes can - 
and do - 
arise among followers of the 
same Dharma as to the “correct” way of pursuing enlightenment. Ultimately, each 
Kuei-jin is responsible for following his own path, no matter what others might say. 
Fortunately, most Kuei-jin recognize the Dharma that is right for them 
instinctively, and thus, they are better suited to understand the philosophy behind 
its teachings as well as what is said outright. It should be noted that while most 
Kuei-jin choose their Dharmas during their re‘ period, sometimes Heaven itself 
expresses which Dharma a Kuei-jin should follow, resulting in what others might 
consider some bizarre pairings. (This case is especially common for those Kuei-jin 
with high ratings in the Horoscope Background.) For example, a former Buddhist 
monk might return as a Resplendent Crane to continue his old ways, but he might 
just as easily find that he is destined to follow the Howl of the Devil-Tiger in order 
to make up for his past disdain for all things physical and wicked. Such is joss; while 
it is possible for a vampire to change Dharma, it is far from common even in the 
Fifth Age. To reject one’s previous Dharma is to say that all a vampire once stood 
for was wrong, and that is a difficult thing for anyone to admit. 
Note: A character who chooses a different Dharma immediately drops down 
to Dharma 1 in his new path, he may never again follow his old Dharma, and he 
loses his old Dharmic Strength in favor of his new one. However, the old Dharmic 
Weakness remains even as the character acquires the Weakness for his new 
Dharma (although the old one may now be bought off as usual). It’s costly to 
change one’s fundamental philosophy. Kuei-jin who fall from all the Dharmic 
paths in this manner are sent screaming into Yomi, their soul forever adrift. 
Each Dharma description fits this basic format: 
V i e :  The Virtue that this path embraces, and the Trait employed during 
any Dharma Tests. (If a Discipline calls for a Dharma Test, the permanent rating 
of this Trait applies.) 
Overview: A brief description of the path, its origins and its Ways. 
Training: The trials and teachings that all students of this path experience, 
as well as common skills members possess. 
Dharrnic Strengeh: A talent that arises from the studies and training of this 
Dharma, and which is unique to members of this Way. This talent does not cost 
anything to acquire, although it may cost something to use. 
Dharrnic Weakness The philosophical or material “blind spot” of the Way, 
or a common error its members make in pursuing their goals. Note: Characters do 
not receive compensation for any Flaws or Negative Traits gained from 
their Weakness. 
Gmcepts: The type of people drawn to the path - 
or shaped by it. 
Tenets: Eight lessons imparted to students of this Way, the “ground rules” of 
the Dharma. Pursuing these lessons should be a primary goal of adherents. 
Mliations: The elements connected to the Way. Most followers style their 
dress, behavior and practices after the elements they revere, and they employ 
samples of these materials in their meditations and rites. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Important signs to watch for and keep 
around. Many followers of the Way integrate these symbols into their homes and 
temples. Bodhisattvas manifest such phenomena - 
cold breezes, blooming plants, 
etc. -whenever 
they appear. 
Quote: A comment that sums up the attitude of the Way. 
ri HOWLO- 
R D E ~ L = V ~ ~ ~  
MRl‘UEZP’O 
Not every soul fears the torments of Hell. Some even come to enjoy Yomi, and 
they bring that suffering with them on the Road Back. Pain is the greatest truth of 
this wicked Dharma, the scourge that clears the mind, destroys imperfections and 
allows healing to begin. Likewise, Devil-Tigers view true demons as the surgeons 
who bring such pain to creation, increasing suffering only to improve the eventual 
product. Make no mistake, however - 
vampires on this path are often sado- 
masochists of the highest order, welcoming the same type of anguish they so readily 
inflict on others for the wisdom that comes of it. Yet many of their younger 
members have lost sight of the true goal of the Dharma, and they simply bring 
suffering with no eye toward enlightenment. Such brings great shame to their 
elders, who do their best to “awaken” these headstrong youths with excruciating 
lessons. The Fifth Age is a great playground to them, for never before has pain been 
so accepted - 
so mass-produced - 
and never have so many implements for 
delivering agony been easily available. At the same time, though, most mortals 
now believe they are used to pain and suffering, and so revealing the wisdom of true 
agony becomes that much harder. But oh, the fun of opening their eyes! 
The Searing Wind (another name for this sect) was supposedly created when 
the Grand Arhat Xue first learned the wisdom to be gained in suffering. Since then, 
Devil-Tigers have embraced this original goal gleefully and committed all manner 
of conceivable atrocities on themselves and others. Devil-Tigers prefer dragon 
nests in locations that sicken and horrify other vampires, and so their sites often 
seethe with evil spirits and unclean practices. The Chi gathered there is often 
tainted with the anguish of countless victims. Lesser beings sometimes take such 
horrors as signs that these Kuei-jin are devil-worshippers, but few live to repeat 
such misconceptions to them, as foolish infernalists who begin talks with such 
overtures learn (in the seconds before their flesh is seared away and scattered to the 
night winds). Devil-Tigers seek to become demons, not serve them, and they have 
nothing but contempt for those who would settle for the lesser goal of serving a 
demonic master. In this fashion, if none other, the Devil-Tigers are better than 
many of their fellows in remembering the original purpose of the Wan Xian -to 
protect humanity from the Yama Kings. Indeed, Heaven surely smiles at the irony 
of this Dharma comprising one of the largest forces actively seeking to thwart the 
ambition of the Yama Kings. (Of 
course, in battling demons, most Devil-Tigers are 
simply trying to eliminate potential rivals more than protect humanity, but at least 
they recognize their purpose.) 
As the Sixth Age dawns, the Devil-Tigers prepare to take their place at the 
head of creation, and they enjoy letting other Kuei-jin know it. The Searing Wind 
can be found in nearly every comer of the Middle Kingdom teaching mortals the 
mantra of pain, but they are just as often found eliminating those who understand 
the lesson too well, as the surgeon must cauterize disease to keep it from spreading 
unchecked. Devil-Tigers may relish agony, but they much prefer it when they 
control its applications rather than some impudent mortal bully with a weapon. It 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


should be noted that a Devil-Tiger does not walk around shooting random 
passersby and kicking puppies. While often far from subtle, this Dharma teaches 
that targets should become more enlightened as a result of their “lesson.” Random 
cruelty and violence generally precludes Dharmic advancement (though many 
Devil-Tigers still indulge on occasion). These Kuei-jin and their philosophy may 
make Sabbat vampires look like a Sunday school choir, but that doesn’t mean they 
are as blatant in their means. 
Training: 
Devil-Tigers learn from pain. Each scream is a new insight learned; 
each trial endured anew level of strength. As a sudden lightning flash leaves deeper 
darkness, so too does a brief agony engender a greater calm. Most Masters abduct 
their charges and torture them in a variety of indescribable ways, seeking to force 
them to accept their new existence and begin learning the mantra of anguish. 
Many Devil-Tigers endured lives of great pain and conflict (and more than a few 
added to the violence in their own way), but nothing can prepare one for the 
torments of Yomi and the razor-keen lessons of this Way. Skill and finesse are 
treasured in this Dharma, while raw carnage and brutishness are disparaged. Even 
a monkey can be taught to fire a gun, but it takes an artist to teach with pain. If the 
students of the Fifth Age are slower to learn the value of exquisite suffering, that 
thickness just makes their teachers work harder to impart the lesson (at an ever- 
greater cost to the students’ minds and bodies). 
Dharmic Strength: Evil’s Entrancing Eyes 
Attuned as they are to the P’o within, Devil-Tigers have a keenunderstanding 
ofwhat drives the Demon within other beings, and they can speak to the evil halves 
of others in an enticing manner. Once they realize that another being has fallen 
under the influence of the dark side of her nature, the vampire’s player may attempt 
to appeal to the target’s “dark side” by spending a Social Trait and making a Social 
Challenge. If successful, the wicked being will be inclined to view the vampire as 
a friend for the remainder of the scene (longer if she is treated well). This state ends 
if the character is attacked or otherwise abused directly, and the target likely 
becomes extremely enraged at the Kuei-jin. This talent may work only on beings 
whose dark nature is very close to the surface. Some examples include wraiths with 
active Shadows, Spectres, Kuei-jin in shadow soul, Kin-jin with low Humanity 
ratings, some werewolves and very violent or degenerate humans. Due to their 
ancient enmity, this talent never works on demons. 
Dhannic Weakness: Sharpening the Soul-Knife 
Most Devil-Tigers are far too impulsive for their own good, and even their 
elders have trouble creating long-term plans if the opportunity for a quick scream 
is readily available. These vampires aspire to be &mons, after all, and humility and 
restraint are in very short supply. To reflect this Dharmic predisposition, vampires 
of the Devil-Tiger sect must take one of the following Negative Traits, which 
cannot be bought off short of reaching dah: C-, 
Imptiem, T&s 
or Vbknt. 
concepts: Philosopher, demon-fighter, assassin, entertainer, torturer, wan- 
dering stranger, enforcer, prostitute, bureaucrat, fallen monk. 
Affiliations: Fire, the number two, the color red and the south direction. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Tigers, thunderstorms, lightning strikes, 
Quote: “I’m a friend, remember?” 
huge fires, burning lotuses (often represented by floating flower-candles). 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


There are those who submit in the inevitability of the Sixth Age, and then 
there are those who fight back, striving to purge corruption and set the world back 
on a path harmonious with the will of Heaven. The Shining Ice Guardians - 
as 
many Resplendent Cranes dub themselves - 
are just such a force, seeking to bring 
order from chaos and right the terrible imbalances of the world before it is too late. 
Being a bringer of law is a lonely existence and one that demands absolute 
discipline. Adherence to both the Fivefold Way and the Eight Lotus Path (a series 
of laws developed by the Dharma) is a must, lest the vampire succumb to the same 
evils that led to his inauspicious return as one of the Hungry Dead. Like Legalists 
and Confucians, the Resplendent Cranes see evil as flowing from imperfection, 
and therefore, harmony is restored and the Middle Kingdom prospers only if 
enlightened rulers can set examples for the people. Unfortunately, there are few 
such enlightened leaders in the Fifth Age, and most of the Kuei-jin are too busy 
battling over Chi scraps to right the situation. Therefore, it falls to the Shining Ice 
Guardians to remember the original purpose of the Wan Xian, the defenders of 
humanity, and set the examples their mortal leaders cannot. 
As noble as their goals sound, most Resplendent Cranes suffer from acrippling 
sense of guilt over their very return to the world. After all, if evil flows from 
imperfection, then they must have been imperfect in life indeed! Resplendent 
Cranes are said to be as honest, cold and merciless as the winters they love. With 
the exception of the Thrashing Dragons, the Shining Ice Guardians are the most 
likely Dharma to view their very existence as a curse or punishment, since Kuei- 
jin violate so many laws of harmony and Heaven simply by existing. Maybe once 
the Wan Xian were noble and glorious protectors of the Middle Kingdom, the 
Resplendent Cranes reason, but they shamed their posts long ago, and even a fool 
can see that their modem descendants have slid even farther from the favor of 
Heaven. Duty is still duty to the vampires of this Dharma, and they carry out what 
they perceive as their ordained role to the best of their ability, but they are often 
driven more by a sense of grim determination than true confidence of purpose. 
Because of these perceived failings, many Resplendent Cranes also practice 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


“penance” in whatever way they see fit, and the punishments they assign to the 
transgressors they find typically reflect their own lack of pity for themselves. 
The Resplendent Cranes are said to have originated when Xue pondered why 
Heaven had not destroyed those it had evidently found unworthy, bur rather left 
them to ponder their curse. After a long period of meditation, he wandered until 
he came upon a frozen pond. There he saw a crane pluck a frog from the ice and 
set it aside. The frog became a butterfly, and in a flash, Xue was enlightened. 
Unfortunately, too many Resplendent Cranes have lost track of the true lesson to 
be found in the tale of their origin, focusing on their own unworthiness instead. If 
the Shining Ice Guardians are to have any hope in reversing the coming of the 
Sixth Age and restoring an Age of Heaven to the Middle Kingdom, they must 
scourge the corruption that afionts the August Personage of Jade instead of 
concentrating ceaselessly on their own souls. The corruption in the Middle 
Kingdom has spread to the point where not all of creation can be saved - 
maybe 
even not the Resplendent Cranes themselves - 
but if that’s what it takes, then so 
shall the will of Heaven be served! 
Training: Resplendent Cranes must purge their own impurities through 
rigorous exercises of both the body and the mind. Mortification is considered 
improper, but asceticism is encouraged, and pupils are expected to be both prudent 
and frugal when conducting their temporal affairs. Having shamed their ancestors 
(or believing they have), the Resplendent Cranes practice generosity, benevo- 
lence and other charitable habits in the hopes of righting their past sins. 
The Eightfold Lotus Path is another crucial part of training - 
each Lotus is 
a lesson that the Kuei-jin must recognize and practice if he wishes to attain 
salvation. The First Lotus recognizes hope, while the Second Lotus demands a 
virtuous existence. The Third Lotus involves nurturing the good of the world, the 
Fourth Lotus demands the purgation of the wicked, and the Fifth Lotus encourages 
the instruction of others on the proper way of being. The Sixth Lotus requires law 
just as the Seventh Lotus shows mortal law giving way to harmony, and the Eight 
Lotus completes the cycle and unites the living world with the spirit. By consid- 
ering the Eight Lotus Path in addition to the Fivefold Way, the Resplendent Crane 
can determine what the virtuous course of action might be at any given time. 
Dharmic Strength: Strength of the Oversoul 
Resplendent Cranes learn early on that the P’o is their enemy in the eternal 
struggle for enlightenment, and while they know it cannot be entirely banished if 
their Dharma is to be truly realized, that doesn’t mean they have to like it. In 
particular, Resplendent Cranes learn how to shake off the yoke of the P’o in times 
of dire distress, calling on their devotion to the Hun and its laws to give them a burst 
of resolve. Once per story (not per session), an Ice Guardian may address his Po 
aloud, reminding it of its foul nature in the eye of Heaven. The player may then 
spend a Willpower Trait to receive an automatic victory when resisting shadow 
soul, or to avoid taking one action that the P‘o desires, if the P’o has already taken 
control. The Crane can do so only at a time appropriate to the Kuei-jin’s Nature, 
and the act should be a point of high personal drama if at all possible. At the very 
least, the speech should be quite commanding and poetic in its descriptions of the 
P’o’s foulness. 
Dharrnic Weakness: Unbending Bonds of Law 
In theory, the Resplendent Cranes are enlightened rulers dispensing Heaven’s 
justice. In practice, however, many are regal monsters who enforce the law when 
and where they see fit. Conversely, some Resplendent Cranes lose sight of the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


elegant simplicity behind the Eightfold Lotus Path and the Fivefold Wav. writine 
, I  
volumes of laws and bylaws describing the “proper” code of behavior in a htic 
attempt to codify enlightenment on parchment. In either event most of them have 
little tolerance for any kind of deviation, let alone outright rebellion, and Ice 
Guardians are swift to punish those who dare to question their laws. In particular, 
each Resplendent Crane receives the Flaw: Intolerance for a particular type of crime 
or other activity of which they disapprove, usually one that reminds them of their 
ownpast sinsor that they considerresponsible for thecormptionofthe world. They 
are one Trait down to resist fire soul in any situation involving their Intolerance, 
in addition to the regular effects of the Flaw. This Flaw cannot be bought off short 
of reaching dah. 
Concepts: Policeman, priest, soldier, lawyer, teacher, martial-artist, honor- 
able outlaw, technician, paramedic 
Mliations: Water, the number one, the color yellow and the north direc- 
tion. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Eight-petaled lotus flowers, cranes, butter- 
flies, cold wind, ice and snow. 
Quote: “Those who wish to become heroes must defeat the Demon within a 
hundred times before they can claim a single victory against an enemy without.” 
r i s O N 9  o - s ~ o u v  
ViqTllE: Y[jy 
Once, long ago, Xue fell in love with a ghost of the forest and traveled to the 
Yin World to be at her side. Unwelcome in the land of the dead, Xue was turned 
to dust, but born again from the tear the ghost shed upon hearing him declare his 
everlasting love for her. The Song of the Shadow Dharma came into being that 
same hour, born from the knowledge that a fragile bridge exists between the land 
of the dead and the realm of the living, and these Kuei-jin have maintained that 
delicate link ever since. Ambassadors of the dead, punishers of the disrespectful 
and historians of Cathayan society, the Bone Flowers (so nicknamed for a passage 
in one of their crucial texts, The MidnightJewel) attend to all their duties with an 
eerie grace that unnerves most other shen. They see it as only natural that the Kuei- 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


jin-dead 
things that live still- act as the caretakers of the passage between both 
worlds, and they take great stock in gathering information from both worlds, 
ensuring that truth endures. Indeed, they are considered meticulous even by the 
superstition-prone spirits they deal with, and no fact passes by them without being 
carefully examined for its connection to anything else the Bone Flower knows. 
This sifting weeds out useless data and sometimes yields amazing results from what 
is apparently a collection of trivia, but it also tends to try the patience of more 
dynamic beings, who view the Bone Flowers as cold and distant. 
For the most part, Bone Flowers lived unfulfilled lives as mortals, often 
neglecting family ties and relationships in their quest for academic or artistic 
excellence. Many of them committed suicide or suffered from terrible illnesses. 
While the Second Breath cures the scars of the latter, it cannot heal the emptiness 
that many Bone Flowers feel regarding the pleasures of life that they passed by. The 
longing engendered by such regrets is powerful, and those of this Dharma who 
succumb to their desires do so with the urgency of a hundred abandoned dreams. 
Such moments are as rare as a midnight sunrise, though the powerful Yin bonds of 
the Bone Flowers tends to make such pleasures of the flesh seem fleeting and 
temporal; unworthy of exploration. Only the hunger for knowledge seems to 
survive, and thus, the reason many of these Kuei-jin are such avid historians. It is 
the only hunger that they still recognize as worthy offeeding. Even as flesh fails and 
goods fall apart, truth preserved is truth eternal. Oddly enough, it is this same 
curiosity that leads Bone Flowers to seek out their fellow shen, making them the 
most common ambassadors of the Kuei-jin not only to the Jade Kingdom but the 
other supernatural denizens of the Middle Kingdom as well. They even serve as 
guides to those who seek out the paths of the Yin and Yomi Worlds, though such 
guidance does not come cheaply or easily, as negotiating with an elder Bone Flower 
is a long, delicate process at best. 
Perhaps the most critical duty of this Dharma in the turbulent Fifth Age is 
preserving the ancient traditions of honoring the dead, which are rapidly being 
ignored out of existence in the hectic rush of modem life. Angry ghosts howl at the 
injustices that their thoughtless descendants are visiting upon them, and other 
wraiths wail piteously for the living to take even the slightest notice of them, 
reduced to begging for attention instead of receiving their due honorably. In some 
circles the old ways are even mocked openly, a blasphemy that the Bone Flowers 
will not tolerate. Offenders are first “persuaded” to amend their ways by the tender 
mercies of the Bone Flowers representing their ancestors. Those mortals who 
continue disrespectful or derelict in their duties are introduced to the truth of the 
afterlife firsthand. Other Dharmas are concerned with the material world, con- 
vinced it is the linchpin of existence, but the Bone Flowers know better. The spirit 
worlds are in chaos, and whatever happens in realms beyond has direct repercus- 
sions on the Middle Kingdom. A chain reaction capable of ushering in the Sixth 
Age may finish in the material realm, but it does not have to begin there, and the 
Bone Flowers are constantly alert to the threats posed by wicked spirits and other 
malign creatures. If the other Kuei-jin cannot be made to see the truth of this 
danger, they are only getting in the way. 
Training: Many Bone Flowers are taken on long spirit journeys by their sifus, 
especially through the Y in and Yomi Worlds, where they can witness the existence 
of the spirits firsthand. Also stressed during training are the unraveling of complex, 
symbolic enigmas and long periods of meditation, since so much of the spirit world 
relies on the vampire centering her thoughts and interpreting what she sees. All 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Bone Flowers must learn at least the basic rules of etiquette governing interaction 
with the spirits, a time-consuming and extremely meticulous process that must be 
performed with tact and precision. Finally (and perhaps most importantly), the 
vampire must immunize herself to the pains of the living world and the spirit realm 
alike, for doing so is the only protection against the immense suffering that arises 
from dealing with both realms at once. Some Bone Flowers welcome such 
numbness and embrace it to an inhuman degree, but others try to fill the emptiness 
within them that this training creates by pursuing other passions than simply the 
study of death. 
Dharmic Strength: Mantle of Tears 
Bone Flowers are keenly sensitive to the events of the many spiritual realms 
around them, especially the Dark Kingdom of Jade. As such, Bone Flowers have 
little trouble attracting the attention of kuei and other wraiths. With the expen- 
diture of a single Mental Trait, the Bone Flower may cause any spirits of the dead 
in the area to notice her. (Wraith characters should be notified by aNarrator as to 
the vampire’s exceptional presence.) This talent, while occasionally dangerous if 
malignant spirits are nearby, is often very useful to the vampire, since it allows 
wraiths to find and interact with her more easily. Furthermore, by dropping her 
voice to a whisper the Kuei-jin may be clearly heard in the Yin World, although 
she cannot hear any responses without the benefit of Disciplines or the wraiths 
employing their own powers. Those wraiths who do attempt to contact the 
vampire while she uses the Mantle of Tears are two Traits up on all related 
challenges to communicate with her. 
Dharmic Weakness: Hell‘s Freezing Talons 
Attuned as they are to Yin, most Bone Flowers appear cold, pale, icy and 
inhuman to those withwhom they interact. While some beings are attracted to this 
alien charm, most are repelled by the palpable aura of death that surrounds the 
vampire. And no matter how romantic their detached unlives may seem to others, 
the truth is that most Bone Flowers are as impassive to the joys of existence as they 
are to its pains, and few indeed are those beings who care to make close 
acquaintances with these inhuman creatures. (Even Devil-Tigers at least have 
some wicked charm going for them.) Due to their perceived heartlessness and the 
rigorous lessons that these Kuei-jin undergo, which are designed to desensitize 
them, Bone Flowers may never have more than three permanent Social Traits 
relating to warm, friendly relationships (such as Empathetic, Friendly, Genial). In 
addition, due to the touch of the grave these vampires carry with them, most 
hengeyokai instinctively bristle as one of these Kuei-jin passes by. Shapeshifters’ 
players receive a free retest on all Gifts and Abilities used to detect the presence 
of a Bone Flower in the area. 
Concepts: Artist, archivist, priest, detective, wandering sage, necrophiliac, 
graveyard weirdo, ambassador to other shen 
Affiliations: Metal, the color black, the number four and the west direction. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Bones, cool springs of water, autumn leaves, 
theater masks, chill breezes, withering plants, dead flowers, funerals. 
Quote: “There, there, do not worry so. Your uncle rests peacefully, I assure you, 
and he has forgiven you for the harsh words that you spoke to him the last time you 
saw him. How do I know? Well, let’s just say I spoke to him not long after you did.” 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Many Kuei-jin, like their Cainite counterparts, puff themselves up with pride 
in their powers, their immortality, even their so-called “place under Heaven.” 
They use the ancient legends of the Wan Xian as proof of their superiority over 
everything in the Middle Kingdom and enforce their laws arbitrarily, becoming the 
very sort of tyrant they were created to defend against so long ago. Not all Kuei- 
jin choose this way of arrogance, however. Some vampires seek instead to emulate 
the hollow reed, which sustains itself on water and yet remains empty, grounded 
in earth and reaching to the sky at the same time. Enlightenment for these Kuei- 
jin comes from seeing old truths from a new perspective, from learning to balance 
the conflicting urges of the vampiric self into one functioning whole. It is said that 
Xue compared three insects he saw along his journey - 
the jumping grasshopper, 
the flying wasp, and the humble trundling centipede. Unlike its prouder cousins, 
the centipede moved slowly, but each of its 100 segments moved in harmony with 
the others, and each segment contained its own legs, shell, even heart. While 
considering the centipede’s design, Xue became enlightened. The Path of a 
Thousand Whispers seeks to enact the lesson handed down by Xue long ago, its 
followers still practicing the lesson of perpetually changing their point of view in 
order to achieve enlightenment. 
Easily the rarest of the Dharmas, the Path of a Thousand Whispers puzzles 
many shen. While most beings seek to establish their identity and hold fast to it 
above all else, the Whispers forsake just one life for maintaining three or four 
identities at once, identities that are often as different as the vampire can make 
them in order to encourage multiple insights. When a Rootless Tree (so dubbed for 
the peculiar wandering existence common to this Dharma) feels that she has 
learned all that she can from a particular identity, she stages a tragic death and 
moves on to a new life. Needless to say, this adherence to the Dharma means that 
a vampire eventually feels the need to leave her court and even her wu in pursuit 
of a new perspective on existence, making other Kuei-jin hesitant to trust those 
Whispers they know. After all, who is to say if they will be around when they are 
needed? After all, running one life alone is a full-time ordeal, and the time required 
for maintaining three or four is nothing less than incessant, especially when one 
can only come out at night! To compensate for the most obvious demands their 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


DhilosoDhvdaces on them, WhisDers make up some of the most talented actors and 
I 
I -  
shapeshifters among the Kuei-jii, and they can slide through a bewildering array 
of personalities with little trouble. Furthermore, they place special emphasis on 
maintaining a balance in all things: Hun and P’o, Yin and Yang, fury and calm. This 
careful tending of their soul keeps Rootless Trees from losing their minds in the 
endless identity shifts they undertake, and it makes them surprisingly stable and 
confident for those with such a transitory lifestyle. 
Ofcourse, it is not only the demands of time and talent that make this Dharma 
the rarest - 
vampires are not creatures of intrinsic balance by any means, and 
keeping up such a delicate state requires great self-mastery. Many are the Whispers 
who are blown off the narrow path, and on top of that, the Rootless Trees tend to 
fall harder than other Kuei-jin when they lose their Dharmic Way. The luckiest 
of these vampires merely stumble about until they have regained their focus, but 
many more fall into madness or other permanent imbalance as a result. Even when 
undertaken correctly, gathering insights from different lives and personalities 
requires a great deal of time, more than most young Kuei-jin are willing to spend 
for such a high-risk philosophy. However, true Whispers understand that vampires 
have nothing else but time, and are willing to wait as long as it takes to achieve even 
the smallest moments of enlightenment. In the meantime, they dispense the 
wisdom learned of living multiple lives to any who will listen and hone their skills 
in preparation for donning the next pair of eyes they will wear. 
Training: Kuei-jin on this path must endure continuous symbolic death and 
rebirth, and followers of this Dharma are buried for a time after the “death” of each 
identity, during which time they contemplate the lesson to be learned from that 
lifetime. This practice begins during the re‘ period but continues beyond that time, 
becoming ingrained into the Kuei-jin as she travels, and it often marks the times 
when the vampire chooses to leave her wu or court as well. The first introduction 
to the Broken Mask technique comes when the master assigns his pupil her first 
three identities and an impossible question to answer for each, then sets her free 
to learn what she may. Necessary skills, funds, sutras and other tools are provided 
for these identities, although all future lives are the vampire’s responsibility. After 
those three lives have been completed, the pupil is free to pursue her own destiny. 
Identities of a Whisper do not included taking on new Dharmas, or even the 
semblance of them. After all, one already has a Dharma to consider and fulfill. 
Dharmic Strength: Ten Thousand Whirling Thoughts 
Maintaining so many identities at once is very exacting, but it also lends the 
vampire certain benefits when it comes to resisting mental domination, especially 
against those unfamiliar with the ways of these strange Kuei-jin. When another 
supernatural creature attempts to read or manipulate the thoughts of one of these 
Kuei-jin, the defending Whisper may attempt to confuse the probing party by 
mixing in details of other lives in a nonsensical torrent. This tactic translates in 
game terms as one free retest per different identity the Whisper is currently 
maintaining. Once one of these retests is used, however, it is not regained until a 
new story begins. A Whisper must already have been using an identity for at least 
a few weeks before it can add to the Ten Thousand Whirling Thoughts. If in doubt, 
consult a Storyteller about which identities are “involved” enough to be useful. 
This talent works only against powers which attempt to read thoughts, manipulate 
memories and otherwise investigate or alter the mind of the Kuei-jin. Powers that 
affect emotions or auras or that control the mind directly without seeking to 
explore it (such as Obligution or Dominate) are not affected by use of this Strength. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Dharmic Weakness: Life Among the Faceless 
Balance is ademanding lifestyle to maintain, and the Kuei-jin must be willing 
to take extreme measures to preserve this state, even destroying things and people 
he loves too much in order to maintain an even perspective. Obviously, such 
behavior does little to endear Whispers to their fellow vampires and shen alike, for 
who knows if a Whisper won’t suddenly turn on friends in order to maintain her 
own internal harmony? To reflect the suspicion with which they are met by their 
fellow Kuei-jin, all Whispers receive a permanent Unm*stcuorthy Negative Trait, 
and many of them accumulate more such Traits if they stay in one place too long 
(or betray those dear to them one too many times). Narrators should also be alert 
to the mental health of Whispers and make sure the rules regarding insanity and 
derangements are followed carefully. Keeping up so many separate lives can 
sometimes be more than one sane mind can handle. 
concepts: actor, spy, doctor, philosopher, rootless artist, conniving seducer, 
substitute teacher, or all the preceding at once 
Affiliations: Earth, the color white, the number zero and the center direction. 
Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Jade masks, caves, centipedes, tunnel 
Quote: “Only a fool would disagree with the fact that life is an ever-changing 
complexes, boulders carved into human shapes. 
art form, and yet you would hold yourself to just one shape for all eternity?” 
ri D W ~  
o
~
r
i
i
~
~
~
~RpcCoy 
VjFTUE: ]yrrulq 
Never content with the way things are, always searching for a new pleasure or 
thrill to enjoy, the Thrashing Dragons are as vibrant and lifelike as vampires can 
be, reveling in the carnal delights of the Middle Kingdom as they move among the 
teeming masses. Bursting as they are with life-force, most Dragons seem too vivid 
to be real to those around them, like the forces of nature to which they pay homage. 
This Dharma’s origin is said to have been found when Xue was resting during a 
rainstorm, and the despair that so often clouded his thoughts became cast aside in 
the favor of the soothing embrace of the rain. Sitting there in the middle of the 
storm, Xue saw the insects crawling around him, the birds taking shelter in the 
trees, the earth drinking deep of the storm - 
no matter what he did, he could not 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


denv the vibrant pulse of life all around him. When the storm passed and birds 
beg& flying throigh the rainbow that followed, Xue laughed andin that moment 
he was awakened. The Laughing Rainbows follow this example as literally as 
possible, never shutting out a new life experience or a new perspective they come 
across no matter what may come of it, and their carnal appetites are legendary 
(perhaps infamous would be a better term for it) among their fellow Kuei-j in. Many 
Dragons denied laughter and physical delight during their lifetimes, and only since 
their death and rebirth have they begun learning how to enjoy themselves in the 
world of the flesh. Now they do so with a lust so strong it blasts aside all mortal 
standards. Of course, sex is not the only means these vampires use to explore the 
life-force around them - 
any pleasurable activity, no matter how perverse it may 
seem to outsiders, will eventually draw the eyes of the Dragons. 
Indeed, this same appetite is the basis for the primary flaw infecting the 
Dharma - 
no matter how much Yang energy a Thrashing Dragon may possess, it 
is still stolen energy, a pale shadow of the life-force that once flowed naturally 
through his veins. Most Dragons thirst secretly to be alive again, but no matter how 
much life-energy the vampire consumes, his curse cannot be undone - an 
unpleasant truth that makes even the most brazen Dragons falter in their endless 
quest for pleasure. This same reason leads the vampire to explore ever more twisted 
and alien pleasures in the hopes of finding one that will reverse his condition. 
While this Dharma is not necessarily evil in and of itself, many of its members 
become hedonists to such a degenerate degree that other Kuei-jin do their best to 
avoid contact with them and their “temples.” Buddhist Kuei-jin bear a particular 
disgust for the Laughing Rainbows, and they often bar them from their courts. As 
might be expected, though, Dragons have little use for societal taboos, and enjoy 
shocking mortals out of their daily routines by cavorting about naked or nearly so, 
indulging their passions openly in the streets and otherwise destroying the 
propriety and decorum of an occasion. Many Laughing Rainbows are also expert 
shapeshifters, since flesh is just one more medium and those who wish to become 
animals had best learn how to run alongside them. No matter how degenerate the 
Dragons become, however, they are careful to honor the kami of their animal and 
elemental companions. Most of these vampires offer a thoughtful thanksgiving 
after stealing the life-force of a mortal - 
after all, the Yang would be useless 
without a vessel to concentrate it. 
With so many other problems in the world as the Sixth Age approaches, other 
Kuei-jin look on the antics of the Laughing Rainbows and shake their heads in 
sorrow. Why do they waste their time inventing more and more pleasurable 
pursuits when so much important work needs to be done? For their part, the 
Dragonsrefuse to dignify suchspeculation with an answer-as 
those Kuei-jinmost 
comfortable dealing with mortals, they have their finger on the pulse of the world 
(literally!). Cities are their playgrounds and humanity is the clay in their expert 
craftsmen’s hands. Most other vampires are unaware of just how much sway the 
Dragons would have if they chose to exercise it, but for their part, the Laughing 
Rainbows have yet to deem such action necessary. Instead, they play the part of the 
capering fool, dancing with the Scarlet Queen while they figure out new ways to 
beat the Ebon Dragon into submission at every turn. After all, reality may be 
nothing more than a rainbow - 
illusory and colorful - 
but those who know each 
color inside-out are still best suited to be its masters. It remains to be seen if this 
Dharma will understand the lessons learned of ten thousand impassioned nights 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


and take hold of the rainbow at last, or whether they will simply laugh as the colors 
slip away. 
Training: Business is pleasure for these hedonistic Kuei-j in, and their training 
period is a hectic rush of pleasures followed by strict physical training regimens. 
Martial arts and Tantrik yoga practices are common, but other strenuous pursuits 
are encouraged as long as the vampire pushes his body to the limit. Especially 
talented students may also receive instruction in the arts of shapeshifting or spirit- 
travel, but attracting the eye of a worldly elder Laughing Rainbow can be difficult 
indeed. The culmination of many Dragons’ training comes with an exhaustive 
night-long revel designed to test their endurance as well as their expertise in their 
chosen passions, and only the most aggressive and good-humored Dragons pass. 
Dharmic Strength: Typhoon of Lotus Petals 
As dancers with the Scarlet Queen, the Dragons seem to many of their 
contemporaries to be the embodiment of dynamism itself. They perform actions 
with a living grace unseen among their fellow undead. Though the voice of the 
Queen calls to them in myriad ways, often pulling them in two directions at once, 
each Dragon learns to trust one inner voice that expresses his connection to the 
Yang energy of the cosmos more deeply than any other. Essentially, the Laughing 
Rainbow’s player must choose one dynamic activity - 
martial arts, vigorous 
sports, dance, etc. - 
that she feels best captures the joy of life that her character 
strives to maintain. Once per story (not per session), the Dragon’s player can 
refresh her character’s Yang Chi pool up to the level of her permanent Willpower 
Traits by performing an energetic display of her chosen form and spending a 
Willpower Trait. This performance can never be the same twice, and should be 
breathtaking to behold - 
a successful Performance or other Ability Challenge is 
also required for a vampire attempting the Typhoon, and it should never be too 
easy. (In other words, a use of the Typhoon should always add something to the 
mood or atmosphere of the game, and not just be used as a quick “recharge.”) 
Dharmic Weakness: Honeyed Touch of Sinful Flesh 
Even as this Dharma gains strength from its dynamic lifestyle, it is also far too 
easy for Kuei-jin along this path to lose sight of their goal in favor of the diversions 
found along the way. Just as each of the Laughing Rainbows has a favorite means 
of expressing his Yang drive, so too does this constant exposure to pleasure 
engender certain unhealthy vices. Each new story (not each session), the Dragon 
is assigned one hedonistic activity-sex, drinking, drugs, etc. -in which he must 
indulge at least once per session. If the Dragon fails to indulge his vice during the 
session, he gains the temporary Negative Traits: Impatient and Oblivious, indicating 
his distraction until he takes care of the matter. This hedonistic impulse must 
change from story to story, as the Laughing Rainbows are experimenting with new 
means of pleasure-seeking all the time. Players and Storytellers are encouraged to 
be creative in designing these vices and to try to weave them from the context of 
a character’s personal story line, although the Storyteller’s word is final on what 
vice is assigned. This Flaw does not always have to involve a degenerate pleasure 
(though many are, especially those of elder Dragons), but the behavior is very 
compulsive and the need for such desires cannot be escaped before attaining dah. 
Concepts: Artist, yoga master, extreme sports enthusiast, doctor, farmer, 
entertainer, prostitute, daredevil, activist, Tantrika, cannibal, martial artist, eco- 
terrorist, hengeyokai ambassador 
Affiliations: Wood, the number three, the color green and the east direction. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Rainbows, thunderstorms, blooming flow- 
ers, blood, yoni and lingam symbols. 
Quote: “What does it say of you that my dead flesh has seen far more 
sensations than your living skin will ever know? Now who’s the bigger abomina- 
tion, the being who once lost his life and now lives it as fully as possible, or the one 
who lives still but ignores all there is around him?” 
. 
1: Attune yourself to life in all its forms. 
i 
2: Medirateupon passions. Donot shut themout, but experience them, 
3: Use your powers as a farmer employs his threshing-tools: Break the 
learn from them and encourage them in others. 
P s 
Each Archetype describes an essential form of personality. Though a charac- 
ter is more than a simple set of drives, an Archetype provides a basic springboard 
from which the character’s motives and behaviors can develop. An archetypal 
Nature shows the underlying elements making up a personality, while archetypal 
Demeanor is the face the character shows to the world around him. 
In the course of play, a character’s Nature Archetype serves to provide 
concrete goals and codes of behavior, which means that a player can call for a retest 
on a Virtue Test automatically if a frenzy would violate the character’s Nature. 
However, if someone discovers your character’s Nature, it can be used against you 
in the same way a Negative Trait might be, forcing you into a challenge. 
Example: Lao Yuen, a Thrashing Dragon with a Bravo Nature and a seething 
hatred of the tongs who caused his death, is leadinga Scarlet Screen offiwe mortals against 
his killers’tong. Oneofthe thugs brandishesaMolotowcocktailatYuen, whoseplayertests 
for wave soul and fails. Howewer, Yuen’s player calls for a retest based on Yuen’s Nature 
-he’s too bent on dealing some grievous bodily harm to let some tattooedFnk scare him 
away from his rewenge. The player makes a second test and wins. Yuen pauses only for 
a moment at the sight of the Molotow before sneeringslightly and launching himself at the 
terrified goon. 
Later, Yuen is wounded and low on Chi, and the jina owerseeing the raid asks him 
to charge into another den of killers in a clean-up action. Yuen is in no shape to do so, and 
he refuses. The jina scolds him angrily: “You swore on your honor to do away with these 
impudentfools, and I’m too Commandingfor you to refuse so easily. ” The jina then adds 
mockingly, “Has the mighty Bravo let his prey escape him so easily?” The jina’s player 
calls for a Social Challenge, and because he guessed Yuen’s Nature correctly, Yuen’s 
player must advance two Traits. The chalknge is made, and Yuen loses. Wearily, the 
Laughing Rainbow rises to his feet and prepares for the next assault. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Architect - 
You hope to leave a lasting legaq, to build something for the future. 
Autocrat -You 
want to take charge, since nobody else can do the job right. 
Bon Vivant - 
Only a good time can assuage your otherwise empty existence. 
Bravo - 
Other people only get in your way of doing things, and you do not 
Caregiver - 
You protect and comfort others. 
Celebrant -You 
find that joy springs from your overriding passion. 
Child - 
You need others to nurture and help you. 
Competitor - 
Everything is a contest, and you plan to win. 
Conformist - 
You take the lead and the cues from someone else, letting 
Conniver-There’s no point to doing it yourself when you can get someone 
Curmudgeon -Nothing’s perfect, everything sucks, and you’re going to 
Deviant -Normal? What’s that?You have no use for social norms and mores. 
Director - 
You feel an overriding need to impose order. 
Fanatic -One cause, one truth, one purpose - 
you serve and proselytize 
Gallant - 
Everything you do is geared toward flamboyance and excess, 
Judge - 
You have a deep sense of right and wrong, and you seek justice 
Loner -You 
just don’t belong, either by choice or by nature. 
Martyr -Everyone benefits when you shoulder the burdens of your ideals. 
Masochist -You test yourself through suffering, and you find meaning in 
Monster - 
Build your purpose from a malignant drive to showcase evil 
Pedagogue -Everyone can learn from your example and experiences. You 
Penitent -You 
have sinned, and you cannot rest until you atone for it. 
Perfectionist - 
You do everything with wholehearted zeal aimed at 
Rebel -Whether from habit or drive, you lash out at the system and try to 
Rogue - 
First and foremost, you look out for number one. 
Survivor -Nothing stops you, for your drive to pull through is indomitable. 
Thnll-Seeker -You’re always after the next high, by pushing danger to the edge. 
Traditionalist -The old ways are the best ways, so you preserve and protect them. 
Trickster - 
Existence is absurd, so you fill it with humor and irreverence 
Visionary - 
A goal fills your mind, and your dreams bring faith to others. 
hesitate to bully them into line. 
others handle the responsibility. 
else to put in the effort. 
make sure that everybody knows it. 
with absolute conviction. 
since you need the attentions of those around you. 
measured by your principles. 
enduring pain. 
through your actions. 
were born to teach others. 
immaculate completion. There’s no excuse for flawed efforts. 
break it down. 
to avoid looking too deeply at the pain. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The Traits that describe your character’s innate capabilities are called 
Attributes. You use these Attributes in the game to perform actions and overcome 
obstacles. While certain situations may also require Abilities, such matters are a 
function of training. Even with the appropriate training, you must call on your own 
strengths to finish the tasks set before you. 
When you enter a situation with a questionable outcome, you bid a Trait 
appropriate to the challenge. If you are trying to knock someone over, for instance, 
you might bid the Physical Trait Brawny as you use your strength. The nature of 
the challenge determines the Trait used - 
Physical, Social or Mental. 
You should try to bid a Trait appropriate to the nature of each given challenge. 
That is, using your strength may call on the Brawny Trait but not the Dexterous 
Trait. If you and your opponent agree, you can use other Traits, but in general, 
choose Traits fitting the challenge. 
When you bid a Trait for a challenge, remember that you risk that particular 
Trait. If you fail the challenge, you may lose the use of the Trait temporarily, as you 
exhaust your resources and lose your confidence. Some situations may require the 
use of an additional Trait or more. Any time that you are considered “bids down,” 
you must risk additional Traits. Conversely, if you are listed as “Traits up” or “Traits 
down,” you modify your current number of Traits when comparing for overbids or 
ties. 
For the purposes of determining what kinds ofTraits are appropriate to specific 
challenges or Disciplines, the Trait listings include a run-down of what sorts of 
Traits fit into what specialized categories. For example, the Physical Trait Tough 
may be appropriate for the Discipline of Black Wind because it is a strength-related 
Trait. Of course, you can ignore these categories if you wish, in favor of speeding 
the game. Remember, unique situations may allow Traits to be used in unusual 
ways. 
New players may find it easier to bid a generic Trait from the appropriate pool 
instead of picking a specific one. Doing so allows them time to get the hang of the 
system. When they’re more comfortable with bidding, then start having them 
choose Traits. 
Strength-related: Brawny, Brutal, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry 
Dexterity-related: Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick 
Stamina-related: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tireless 
Miscellaneous Physical: &le, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigurous 
Agile: You have a well-honed and flexible body. You can bend, twist, run and 
Uses: Sports, duels, running, acrobatics and grappling. 
Brawny: With arms like coiled dragons and legs like mountains, you possess 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict 
Brutal: Honorable or not, there’s no action that you’re not capable of doing 
jump with ease. 
bulky, muscular power. 
damage. Power-lifting. All feats of strength. 
if it means survival. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. Shutting out distractions or 
emotions in order to act. 
lhtaas You have excellent manual dexterity and general skill with your hands. 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat. Picking pockets. Punching. 
Enduring: Sturdy in the face of persistent physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival is at stake, this is a good Trait to risk as a second, 
or successive, bid. 
Energetic: A walking advertisement for Yang, you have a seemingly endless 
well of energy and zeal for your tasks. In stressful situations, you can call on reserves 
most people can’t imagine. 
Uses: Combat. Sports. 
Ferocious: Tigers prowl in your eyes and cobras flinch at your strikes. You 
engage physical situations with brutal intensity, and you have no trouble inflicting 
serious harm when necessary. 
Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. When in fire soul. 
Gracew: Your balance seldom wavers, and your motions are confdenrly efficient. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance (crossing a 
river on stepping stones, fighting on four-inch-wide rafters). 
Lithe: You possess excellent flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging and dancing. 
Nimble: Skillful and light. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling and acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. 
Quick: Excellent reaction time coupled with fast, precise movements. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging and attacking. 
Resilient: Very healthy and able to recover from injury easily. 
Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an attack. 
Robust: As unflinching as jade itself, you take physical damage in stride. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions that 
Rugged: Hardy, rugged and extremely healthy, you can shrug off wounds to 
Uses: When resisting damage. Any challenge that you enter while injured. 
Stalwart: Physically strong and unwilling to bow to pressure, you stand your 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when making a stand against overwhelming odds 
Steady You have a firm understanding and control over everything you do, 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations. Piloting oil tankers. 
Tenacious: Like a mongoose once its fangs sink in, you refuse to give up 
actions once you’ve begun them, even if it isn’t always the wisest course of action. 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
Tireless: Gifted with a runner’s stamina and great physical patience, your 
Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical Chal- 
could take place over a period of time. 
complete your duties. 
ground and impress even the lowliest of akuma with your courage. 
or a superior foe. 
which keeps you unfaltering and balanced. 
endurance outstrips most people easily. 
lenge with the same foe or foes. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Tough: A bad-ass to the end, you could lose an eye in a gun battle and still feel 
fit enough to light a cigarette off a burning car before going a few more rounds with 
your foe. 
Uses: Whenever you are wounded or winded. 
Vigorous: A combination of energy, power, intensity and resistance to harm. 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you are on the defensive. 
Wiry: You possess streamlined, muscular power. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movements. 
Endurance lifting. 
YEgarj**~W=rn~ 
Clumsy: Nobody asks you to hold a drink, much less a child or anything else 
valuable. If anyone drops a gun clip or trips on a tree root, it’s likely to be you. 
cowardly: You’ve been dead once and are in no hurry to experience it again. 
Any timedangerrears its head youcan befoundpoundingon thenearestexit. Even 
when you’re winnii, you sometimes lose your nerve and back off anyway, just h m  habit. 
Decrepit: Whether by age or other cause such as disease, you move as if you’re 
old and infirm. Recovery from even slight injuries takes a long time, you tire out 
fast, and you are unable to apply all your physical strength. 
Delicate: Perhaps you are very slight of build, or maybe you just have never 
had to undergo any real physical hardship. Regardless, you are hurt easily by 
physical forces. 
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits. You aren’t the type 
who gets over being bullied very easily. You lack physical persistence, and you tend 
to submit rather than fight long battles. 
Flabby: You have trouble using your strength against opponents, since your 
lesareunderdevelopedandyourbodyhasseenalotoftimesinceanykindofexercise. 
Lame Whether due to accident or battle damage, you’re crippled in one or 
more limbs. This defect can be as easy to spot as a missing leg or as subtle as an arm 
that just isn’t quite right anymore. 
Lethargic: Passivity is a virtue of Yin, but you overindulge in this virtue as 
much as possible. You have trouble mustering any substantial energy or drive, and 
others tend to see you as lazy and blase. 
Puny: To be honest, you are weak and inferior in strength. Having this Trait 
often also means being of diminutive size. 
Sickly: Whether you’re actually sick or not, your body responds to stress as if 
it were in the last throes of a debilitating illness. 
Charisma-related: Charismatic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Expressive, Ge- 
Manipulation-related: Beguiling, Commanding, I 
Appearance-related: Alluring, Elegant, Gorgeous, Magnetic, Seductive 
Miscellaneous Social: Compassionate, Diplomatic, Empathetic, Intimidating, 
Friendly, Witty 
Alluring: Beauty is only part of seduction. Presentation is also key to 
ensnaring the hearts of others, and you’re skilled at using your natural presence to 
inspire such desire. 
nial 
ng, Persuasive 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
Beguiling: Tales told by you have more twists than a hundred knots, and when 
you choose to, you can weave believable lies and other misleading phrases together 
with ease. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. 
Qlarismatic: You are gifted with a personality that appeals to others, from small 
groups of friends to crowds at a rally, and you have the raw material of a strong leader. 
Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leadership. 
charming: You know how to choose your words and actions in a pleasing 
fashion, and people tend to consider you a fnend -or at least an ally- very quickly. 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Commanding: People tend to obey orders you give just because of your force 
of presence and appearance of command. You just have a knack for bringing people 
in line and getting them working on what needs to be done. 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. Direct confrontations. 
Compassionate: Your empathy for the suffering of others is admirable, and in 
the right situations, you have little trouble convincing others of your sincere desire 
to aid those in need. 
Uses: Defending the weak or downtrodden. Defeating major obstacles while 
pursuing an altruistic end. 
Dignified: No matter what your appearance may be, you carry yourself well 
and seldom seem ill at ease, no matter the circumstances. Honor exudes from your 
every move. 
Uses: Leadership situations. Important for being taken seriously by the elders 
of many courts. 
Diplomatic: Blessed with a tongue skilled at keeping harmony and reaching 
accord, your careful speech and thoughtful manner ensure that few walk away from 
conversations with you with hard feelings. 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Elegant You give off an air of sophistication and taste, and refinement seems 
Uses: High society. Impressing elder Kuei-jin. 
Eloquent Your way with words is well-known, and your ability to put a 
Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. Storytelling. 
Empathetic The true moods and emotions of others are unknown to most, 
but you are naturally adept at guessing what others are really feeling. Sometimes 
this gift is a curse as well. At times, you tend to feel what others feel rather than 
your own emotions. 
to follow in your footsteps wherever you go. 
convincing phrase or moving speech together is quite respectable. 
Uses: Sympathy. Gauging the feelings of others. 
Expressive: You possess a powerful and memorable presence when you choose 
Uses: Producing art, acting, performing. Any social situation in which you 
Friendly: Always ready with a smile and an easy joke, you impress others as 
Uses: Convincing others. Gaining the trust of strangers and suspicious folk. 
to express yourself, and you can be counted on to add some color to any scene. 
want someone to understand your meaning. 
likable and trustworthy even if they haven’t known you for very long. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Genial: Your presence is polite, warm and unobtrusive, making others feel at 
Uses: Mingling at parties. Generally used in a second or later Social Challenge 
Gorgeous: You body and face are attractive to most people you meet. 
Uses: Modeling, posing and flirting. Seduction. 
Ingratiating: You know how to speak to those of higher station in a way they find 
Uses: Gaining favor with elders in a social situation; kissing up to someone. 
Intimidating: Thunder rolls, lightning crashes, and the pillars of Heaven 
shake when you vent your fury. You know how to inspire fear and respect in others. 
Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others. Staredowns. 
Magnetic: Others find your speech and actions interesting, and drawing a 
Uses: Seduction. Intimation. Leadership. 
Persuasive: You have a way of getting others to accept what you have to say, 
and you win more arguments than you lose. When others are unsure of what to do, 
you have a talent for getting them to accept your point of view. 
ease around you naturally. 
with someone. 
pleasing and unthreatening, and you tend to be well regarded by your superiors. 
crowd (or a lover) is seldom difficult for you. 
Uses: Cajoling or convincing others. 
Seductive: You exude a great deal of sexual energy. You can use your body and 
manner to ensnare others, and once you’ve got them it’s often a simple matter to 
get what you want. 
Uses: Subterfuge and subversion. 
Witty: A true monkey to the last, jokes and jests come naturally to you, and 
Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting someone. 
Bestial: Kuei-jin or not, there’s something about you that is deeply not right 
to human eyes, and you look decidedly inhuman. Maybe you somehow bear 
obvious scars from your death, or your eyes simmer with the fire of your P’o, or 
maybe your skin is just a little too pale for comfort. 
Callous: Others see you as cold, aloof and uncaring, no matter what the truth 
ofyour emotionalstate may be. Common with those withanoverly strong Yinside. 
condescending: You have trouble hiding your contempt for those beneath 
you, and it shows. 
Dull: You have trouble making yourself seem interesting to others, and most 
people go out of their way to avoid making conversation with you. 
Feral: There is more of a raging animal about you than just in the way you look. 
Your actions and manners suggest something less than human. 
Nafve: A true Running Monkey at heart, you are wide-eyed and untouched 
by the air of worldliness that others carry. Not good if you plan on impressing others 
with talk of Dharma or enlightenment. 
Obnoxious: Whether it’s because of the way you act, what you say, or just how 
you look, you strike others as irritating and unpleasant to be around. This Trait is 
common to kyonshi, especially those with overtly Western mannerisms. 
Repugnant: You appearance disgusts others, and you make a terrible first 
impression on those you meet. 
being perceived as a funny person takes very little effort. 
Yqw*Soci=mm 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Shy: You have trouble speaking up at social gatherings, and those who know 
you are surprised if you say more three words to someone you don’t know. 
Tactless: What is “proper” for a situation always seems to be just the opposite 
of what you manage to say or do. In the rigid courts of the Kuei-jin, this habit can 
be very, very bad. 
Unaustworthy Perhaps you are rumored to have a shady past, or maybe you 
just can’t keep a secret, but no matter what the cause (or if there’s any truth behind 
it), you are considered untrustworthy and unreliable by others. 
U-rLsm 
Perception-related: Attentive, Discerning, Insightful, Observant, Vigilant 
Intelligence-related: Cunning, Disciplined, Knowledgeable, Rational, Refictive 
Wits-related: Alert, Clever, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily 
Miscellaneous Mental: Calm, Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Patient, Wise 
Ale Yourmindistrainedtoexpecttheunexpected, 
andyoureacttodangerquickly. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. 
Attentive: It takes thousands of tiny threads to make a tapestry, and you have 
the presence of mind to take note of eachpiece as well as the larger puzzle. Events 
seldom surprise you, since you tend to catch all the warning signs. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Finding small, overlooked details. 
Calm: You are collected and composed regardless of the situation. Self- 
control is second nature to you, and it takes a lot to get under your skin. 
Uses: Resisting commands that provoke violence. Whenever a mental attack 
might upset you. Used primarily for defense. 
Clever: A real fox at heart, your mind is quick, and you think well on your feet. 
Uses: Using mental-related Disciplines. Riddle contests. Good for any prank- 
ster.. . or spy. 
Creative: An inventive and original thinker, you find answers to problems 
that no one has ever thought of before. You can also develop new designs, blend 
existing creations in striking new ways, or even come up with artistic pieces. This 
Trait is essential for any true artist or inventor. 
Uses: Defending against aura-readings. Creating or inventing anything. 
Cunning: Your mind and your methods are hard for others to anticipate, and 
Uses: Tricking others. 
Dedicated: You pour all your heart and soul into supporting those causes or 
Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. 
Determined: You are seldom swayed from the path you chose to take, and 
those who have tried can attest to the fierce devotion of your will. 
Uses: Staredowns. Useful in a normal Mental Challenge. 
Discerning: Fine details, little faults and other things normally overlooked 
Uses: Researching or when perception-based Disciplines are being used. 
Disciplined: Either through formal training or just a ramrod disposition, your 
Uses: Staredowns. Asserting your will. Concentration. 
your craftiness is the stuff of legend. 
duties you claim as your own. You stop at nothing to see them through. 
appear clear to your eyes. 
mind is under tight control, and battles of will are little trouble for you. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Insightful: Your have a formidable ken for figuring out the dynamics of a 
situation at a glance. 
Uses: Inuestigution (but not defending against it). Reading auras. Using 
Sharpened Senses. 
Intuitive: You have excellent instincts, and you have learned to trust what your 
gut tells you is right or wrong. Others may have trouble understanding what you base 
your choices on, but you don’t worry - 
you just know, and that’s good enough. 
Uses: Reading auras. Seeing through Disciplines or Disciplines meant to cloud 
your mind. Taking a guess. 
Knowledgeable: You’ve dedicated a good deal of time in your life to serious 
scholarly study, and it shows. You have a lot of detailed information about a wide 
variety of subjects, reflecting true “book-learning.” 
Uses: Remembering information your character might know. 
Observant: You tend to miss very little, and you can sum up many situations 
with just a quick glance. Your ability to notice and remember important details is 
well known. 
Uses: Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
Patient Mountains move in less time than it takes for you to lose your temper, 
Uses: Facedowns or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. 
Rational: You have a firm grasp of reason, logic and sobriety when it comes 
to analyzing the world around you, and your talent for reducing problems to their 
barest terms has served you well in your time. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Not used as an 
initial bid. Analyzing information. 
Reflective: A thoughtful soul and deep thinker, you consider all aspects of a 
problem before offering a solution. 
Uses: Meditation. Rernembetmg information. Defending against most mental attacks. 
Shrewd: You have a considerable talent for settling disputes, escaping jams 
Uses: Defending against mental attacks. Plotting tactics or playing politics. 
Vigilant You are watchful and alert, missing little while on duty, and you do 
Uses: Defending against Investigation. More appropriate for mental defense 
W i i  Full of trickery and guile, you can come up with complicated ploo; and schemes 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing mental situations. 
Wise: You have absorbed the lessons that life, death and unlife have offered 
you, and you are even able to impart them to those who’ll listen. You strike others 
as thoughtful and intelligent. 
Uses: Giving advice. Recalling ancestral wisdom. Dispensing snippets of Zen. 
Forgetful: Who shot who in the what now? You have trouble remembering 
Gullible: A con man’s dream, you tend to be overly trusting of others and 
and you can wait out both stress and boredom. 
and otherwise accomplishing mental feats with efficiency and finesse. 
not relax your guard often. 
than for attack. 
on short notice, and you always seem to find room to weasel out of tough spots. 
YHpmMfyTlKrRpI= 
things, even very important ones. 
believe what is said to you, even if it’s not always in your best interest. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Ignorant: You never seem to know anything, and elders sneer at your inability 
to display any wisdom at all. 
Impatient Restless, edgy and rude to those whostand in your way, you want your 
way and you want it now! Common Trait for those with an overly strong Yang side. 
Oblivious: You tend to miss important details, and you often seem very “out 
of it” to those around you. 
Predictable: As the Wheel of Ages turns ever onward, never varying, so do 
you go night to night without a change in your routine. This failing makes your 
actions easy to guess even for those who barely know you. It is not an excellent Trait 
for aspiring generals. 
Shortsighted: Let the Sixth Age come and burn away the rest of the world. 
If you’ve got a roof over your head and a source of Chi for the night, you’re happy. 
Planning of any kind is alien to you. 
Submissive: You are the proverbial nail that’s been hammered down, and 
now you don’t even bother to stand up anymore. Retreat, repent and surrender are 
your watchwords, as long as they keep you from having to stand up for yourself. 
Violent: Fire flares in your soul at the slightest provocation, and you have a 
great deal of trouble keeping your temper in check. Considering the destructive 
power of an angry Kuei-jin, this can be very bad indeed. This is a Mental Trait 
because it represents mental instability. 
Witless: In times of stress you’re slow to react, and you tend to be ill-informed 
on current events both living and undead. 
The particular bits of knowledge learned over the years, the tricks of the trade 
and the hard-won secrets of crafts are all Abilities. A character’s Ability Traits 
represent special training or talent, and as such, they often allow performance of 
tasks that would be otherwise impossible. Even with more mundane situations, 
Abilities allow for a much improved chance of success. 
When a character performs a risky or uncertain action, Abilities aid the 
outcome. If you try a task and fail, you can expend one of your appropriate Abilities 
temporarily, to gain an immediate retest. You lose the Ability used and the initial 
Trait(s) bid for the task (if any) because you lost the initial test, but you can still 
overcome the challenge. Abilities used thus are recovered at the next game session. 
A character with multiple levels in a given Ability is certainly more experi- 
enced and proficient than an individual with just one. Most characters will fall into 
one to three levels of Ability. Greater amounts are very rare, and anything beyond 
five levels is almost certainly superhuman (and limited to elder vampires and their 
ilk). The total level of Ability in agiven field corresponds roughly to the character’s 
professional capabilities: 
Competent (Able to earn a living) 
professional (Licensed, capable of supervision) 
Journeyman (Bachelor’s degree or instructor) 
Expert (Master’s degree or researcher) 
Master (Doctorate or true innovator) 
Some tasks are simply too difficult, or they require too much skill, to be 
attempted by a character without the requisite Abilities. The Storyteller may 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


occasionally require the possession or use of an Ability Trait to perform a specific 
task. In this case, characters without the Ability, or who have already used all of 
their levels of the Ability, cannot attempt the task at all. 
When an Ability is used against a set scenario or object (such as using Security 
to pick a lock), the feat usually has a difficulty assigned by the Storyteller. In such 
a Static Challenge, you may be required to risk a Trait for a trivial task, or even be 
asked to bid two or more Traits for a difficult, risky or frustrating undertaking. 
Some Abilities can be used against an opponent instead of facilitating a 
regular task. In this case, the Ability is expended to gain a retest in a challenge with 
the opponent. See the rules for challenges and retests on p. 175 for complete details. 
~ C u S t q  
WlmM 
A few Abilities specifically require a concentrated area of study. One cannot 
study all Crafts or Sciences at once. These Abilities are noted specifically in their 
descriptions. When you take such an Ability, you must choose an area of study, a 
specific topic that you have concentrated on. Each area is considered a separate 
Ability, so Science: Biology counts completely separately from Science: Metallurgy, 
for instance. 
~ Y l t f W ~ r c l ~ ~ O W  
Within a given area of expertise, some practit 
further hone their 
knowledge to a razor’s edge. By choosing a specialization in an Ability, you hone 
your skills with a particular facet of that talent. 
Ability Specializations are a wholly optional rule. Remember to ask your 
Storyteller before taking a specialization. 
Taking a specialization requires that you spend one Experience Trait or Free 
Trait on an Ability that you already have. Then, you can declare a particular 
specialization. Whenever you perform a task with that specialization-even if you 
do not expend the Ability - 
you gain a one-Trait bonus on resolution of 
challenges, as long as you have at least one level of the Ability left. You may only 
have one specialization in any given Ability. You cannot take Firearms: Pistols and 
Firearms: Rifks together, for instance. You also can never gain more than one 
Bonus Trait at a time from specializations, even if more than one would be 
appropriate to a given challenge. That is, even if you have Medicine: Physiology and 
Science: Biology Research, you only get a one-Trait bonus on a test of biochemistry, 
despite your multiple specializations. 
A specialization is a fairly narrow 
tice. You cannot, for 
instance, take a Melee specialization in “swords,” nor could you have an Occult 
specialization of “writing.” An appropriate specialization refers to one small class 
of items or to one type of practice within the Ability, such as Melee: Katana or 
You may take a specialization in an Ability with an area of study. In such a 
case, you concentrate your research in one particular facet of that sub-Ability, or 
in one application of it. Thus, you could have Crafts: Woodworking with a 
specialization in Hidden Panels, or Science: Botany with a specialization in Bonsai. 
Note that the Bonus Trait from a specialization does not have an adjective, 
and it is not bid or used like other Traits. You simply are one Trait upon challenges 
within the specialization. 
Occult: superstitions. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Academics 
Kuei-jin see themselves as beings on a divine mission for Heaven itself. 
Accordingly, they place a great deal of importance on education, since ignorance 
only serves to slow the Road Back. In addition, the tests required to obtain 
mandarin and ancestor status often require a great deal of intellectual vigor. You 
possess a level of education and general knowledge beyond rudimentary schooling. 
With Academics, you can express artistic criticism, debate the classics, consider 
philosophy and indulge in studies of culture. This broad Ability covers all sorts of 
humanities in learning. 
Academics allows you to recognize historical, art and cultural references. You 
can use Academics when working in such fields, when developing a critique or 
researching. Calling on Academics Ability may require a Mental or Social Chal- 
lenge to determine your exact level of competence. 
You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art 
Criticism, ClassicalSrwlies, HistoryJoumalism, Theology or anything else that could 
be studied with higher education. 
Alertness 
You’re never caught unaware. You pay attention to your surroundings, and 
even if you aren’t particularly perceptive, you’ve learned to pick up on subtle cues. 
The information your senses gather gets processed immediately for danger signs 
and unusual signals. 
When you are surprised, you may expend a Trait of Ahmess to negate the 
surprise. You may then respond normally, although you still do not have enough 
forewarning to use any sort of supernatural speed until the next turn. 
Animal Ken 
As beings cut off from the Great Cycle, Kuei-j in are alienated from nature, and 
consequently most animals tend to become very nervous or hostile in their 
presence. This Ability allows one to understand the actions of animals and 
influence their behavior. Taking this skill represents a character having carefully 
re-established the bond between herself and the animals of the world (or perhaps 
she never lost that talent to begin with, unlike most other vampires). Characters 
with this Ability can not only live normally alongside animals and predict their 
actions, but they can also calm or enrage them. 
Given time, you may train an animal to perform simple tasks like fetching, 
guarding and attacking. When a command is given, the animal must make a 
Mental Challenge to understand and carry out the order. In order to give a 
successful command, you must bid between one and three Traits, depending on the 
difficulty of the task. You may also attempt to calm an injured, attacking or 
frightened animal by defeating it in a Social Challenge. 
Athletics 
Whether due to a background in sports or just personal talent, you are skilled 
in all manner of athletic endeavors. You can throw a ball, sprint, climb, jump and 
swim. This last can be especially useful to vampires, who do not float naturally. 
Your Athletics Ability is used for retests on most forms of raw physical activity: 
acrobatics, swimming, jumping, throwing, climbing and running. You may choose 
to focus on something you do especially well. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


You know how to fight bare-handed, down-and-dirty style. This skill includes 
a general aptitude for punching, kicking, grappling, throttling, throwing, gouging, 
clawing and biting, techniques that come to all creatures instinctively. This skill 
does not cover martial arts. Rather, Brawl serves as a catchall term for any form of 
unarmed combat, not necessarily untrained (boxing falls under this skill, after all) 
but not on the level required of true martial arts. For example, street thugs and 
mindless extras in kunp-fu movies have Brawl, while Shaolin monks and the main 
villains in kunefu movies have Martial Arts. 
Bureaucracy 
Bureaucracy, a.k.a. the System, is theoretically an organization for getting 
things done more efficiently. Bureaucracy can allow you to access to appropriate 
licenses, use contractual agreements to your advantage, and recover, alter or 
destroy records. Bureaucracy often requires a Static Mental or Social Challenge, 
depending on the type of roleplaying performed, or as a Storyteller sees fit. In an 
age where even a minor corporation generates a sea of paperwork every day, the 
ability to track particular items in the mess - 
or manipulate the mess itself - 
is 
a subtle but extremely potent talent. 
Many places protect their computer records with paranoid degrees of security, 
but very few are able to keep their paperwork closely under wraps to those who 
know what they’ve doing. Difficulty depends on such factors as security, accessi- 
bility, nature and cooperativeness of the target or information. 
Computer 
Some Kuei-jin have difficulty adapting to modem innovations. As a result, an 
understanding of cutting-edge technology makes for dangerous knowledge. With 
the Computer Ability, you understand how to use, program and access computers 
of all sorts. 
Use Computer with a Mental Challenge (difficulty determined by the Story- 
teller or Narrator) to break into systems, alter data, write programs or figure out 
unfamiliar operations. 
Crafts 
Whether sculpting beautiful objects from jade or processing machine parts on 
an assembly line, the urge to craft and create runs strong even in an undead heart. 
Many mortals in the Middle Kingdom are skilled in at least one manual trade, if 
not several, and dependence on these crafts is still fairly high in many countries. 
A character with the Crafts Ability has the know-how to fashion and critique 
objects within a single field of expertise, which must be chosen at the time the 
Ability is taken. Most tests involving this Ability require either Mental or Physical 
Challenges, with a difficulty depending on such factors as materials at hand, tools 
available and time taken to complete a project. 
Some fields of Crafts include sword-making, engraving, tanning, carpentry 
and blacksmithing. Of course, this Ability may be taken more than once to reflect 
training in multiple fields of craftsmanship. 
Note: While fudging times for Crafts project a bit in the interest of playability 
is recommended, very few craftsmen can work with serious distractions, and some 
projects - 
like forging a superior katana - 
should remain outright impossible to 
complete in just a few hours. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


When trouble rears its ugly head, you know how to get out of the way. 
Unhesitating reactions let you evade blows and shots, getting out of the way of 
injury. You can use Dodge against any attack that you’re aware of: diving for cover 
as someone fires a gun or twisting away from a sword, for instance. Dodge may be 
used as a retest when defending against an attack that you can see or otherwise 
sense coming. 
Drive 
Though most people can drive in the modem age, you can drive well. You’re 
equally at home with a stick-shift or an automatic, rush hour is no concern, and you 
can evade traffic or even use your vehicle as a weapon. Bear in mind though that 
you can’t exactly drive a semi with the greatest of ease just because you can parallel 
park a station wagon on a slant. A Mental Challenge may be required to allow you 
to figure out where everything is in an unfamiliar vehicle. 
Drive Tests most often involve a Physical Challenge of your reflexes. 
Empathy 
You are sensitive to the moods and emotions of people around you. When you 
listen to someone, you understand her feelings. You can identify with others and 
tell when people are lying or holding back while talking to you. 
With a Social Challenge and the expenditure of an Empathy Ability, you can 
determine if the last thing that someone said was a lie (although Subterfuge can 
defend against this Ability). Alternately, you can attempt to determine the 
subject’s current Demeanor. 
Enigmas 
This Ability concerns solving mysteries and puzzles. In essence, it is a 
measurement of your problem-solving skills and how well you combine scattered 
details into a coherent solution. Enigmas comes in handy when navigating mazes, 
answering riddles and the like. It is also a crucial tool along the path of enlighten- 
ment in deciphering the riddles and koans of bodhisattvas, or when trying to 
determine the path that’s best for your Dharma when you’re faced with a difficult 
decision. This Ability applies to Mental Challenges designed to see if you can 
figure out a problem set before you. 
The Storyteller may require a variable number of Traits to be risked, depend- 
ing on the relative difficulty and the character’s familiarity with the enigma in 
question. This Ability should not substitute for actual puzzle-solving, but it allows 
players to receive some help from the Storyteller when they’re stumped. 
Etiquette 
Knowing the taboos of different cultures is essential in many parts of Asia, 
where typical Western manners quickly label one as uncouth and unclean. Among 
the refined courts of the Kuei-jin, such social grace is demanded, and characters 
who step on the wrong toes find themselves in a great deal of trouble. Characters 
are assumed to know basic etiquette for their home culture (even if the players do 
not), but when itcomes to travelingabroadandcreating areal impression, Etiquette 
is often the only way to go. Characters with this skill know the proper way to greet 
someone, when to rise and how to make introductions in a variety of different 
cultures. You can keep your cool in any social scenario, from a bodhisattva’s blood 
tea ritual to a back alley tong party. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The Etiquette Ability can be used with Social Tests to impress or blend in at 
parties. If you make a social faux pas, you may immediately expend an Etiquette 
Ability tonegate the gaffe-your 
character knew better than tomake the mistake. 
Expression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put pen 
to paper and pour out a torrent of emotion and stirring imagery. You can convey 
message and meaning in your art, from novels to haiku, and whatever you write is 
both clear and moving. 
When writing or composing, you can sink true Expression into the work. 
Works created with Expression x 3 or more have the potential to entrance 
especially sensitive onlookers. 
Finance 
You can manage money, and you even have some limited resources to draw 
on. Major companies employ hordes of accountants to keep track of their books, 
and so do a surprising number of triads, especially those in very lucrative fields of 
business. This Ability allows you to follow money trails, verify accounting and 
understand such concepts as investments, shares and bonds. 
These actions are a function of a Mental Challenge, the difficulty of which 
depends on any precautions taken by the subject, the amount of money in question 
and the availability of information. Storytellers should set reasonable totals for 
monies that can be gained through the use of this Ability each session, although 
combining this Ability with the Finance Influence can make for a wealthy 
character in no time. 
Firearms 
This Ability covers both how well you can shoot and your skill at maintaining, 
repairing and possibly making minor alterations to firearms. In the two-fisted, 
pulse-pounding, twin hand-cannons blazing world of modern underworld violence 
(not to mention action films), this Ability is essential, although many elders 
despair over the dependence younger vampires have on their firearms rather than 
their wits. 
The most common use of this Ability is in combat, but a Storyteller can also 
allow you to attempt a Mental Challenge in order to perform other functions (such 
as hunting or repair). Those with the Firearms Ability may choose to use Mental 
Traits instead of Physical Traits during a challenge in which a firearm is involved. 
Hobby/Professionamxpert Ability 
In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have 
achieved some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some work 
on the side, or perhaps you’ve specifically studied a topic. 
Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Ability is a catchall category for highly unusual 
Abilities like Akuma Lure, Yomi Geography, Demolitions and so on. Any Ability of 
this type must be approved specifically by the Storyteller, and the Storyteller must 
define its capabilities. 
Intimidation 
Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques for terrifying 
people into compliance. These techniques include anything from relying on 
physical size, to having a particularly frightening grin, to knowing which emo- 
tional buttons to push. It can also aid in staring down opponents without actually 
needing to harm them. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


You can use Intimidation when trying to scare someone via a Social Challenge, 
or with certain Disciplines (such as showing off the horrors of one’s Demon Shintai 
form). 
Investigation 
Whether a hard-boiled cop, an avid fan of detective novels or even someone 
who’s been on the wrong side of the law often enough, you are familiar with the 
proper methods of conducting an investigation, from going over the scene of the 
crime to interviewing witnesses and analyzing clues. You are able to get to the real 
cause and determine the most likely suspect of many minor crimes in no time 
(although catching the guilty party is something else entirely). Even masterful 
criminal works are not beyond your capabilities to puzzle out. 
By succeeding at a Mental Challenge (no Traits are at risk for either party), 
you can even tell if a person is carrying a concealed weapon or the like. When 
dealing with plots, you may also request a Static Mental Challenge against a 
Storyteller to see if any clues have been overlooked, piece together existing clues 
or uncover information through formal investigation. Unfortunately, many hunt- 
ers also employ this Ability to track down shen. 
Law 
This Ability is the measure of how well you understand the legal system in 
which you are entangled. In the world of humans, you can use the Law Ability to 
write up binding contracts, defend clients and know the rights of yourself and 
others. In the complicated courts of the Kuei-jin, this Ability represents a 
knowledge of the many interpretations - 
both classic and popular - 
of the 
Fivefold Way, as well as other important concepts of undead law. It just might be 
your only chance to avoid being branded akuma by an unfriendly court. 
The difficulty of the Mental Challenges necessary to accomplish these tasks 
depends on factors like the precedents for and severity of the crime, not to mention 
legal complexity of the subject or legal action desired. 
Leadership 
Leadership is a function of confidence, bearing and a profound understanding 
of what motivates others. It is more than barking orders. It measures how well you 
can get others to obey your decisions. It also covers how willingly people accede to 
your wishes, as reluctant followers are worth far less than willing ones. To use this 
Ability, they must first be under your command or in some way your subordinates, 
like the relationship between a wu leader and her wu-mates, a triad boss and his 
men or a CEO and his underlings. 
You may use this Ability to cause others to perform reasonable tasks for you. 
These requests may not endanger the subjects or violate the subjects’ Natures or 
Demeanors. Leadership works with a Social Challenge. This Ability should not be 
allowed to override a player character’s free will, but if a character is uncertain 
about following an order, the outcome of the challenge can assist in roleplaying 
their eventual decision. 
Linguistics 
One fact many Americans have trouble understanding is just how multilin- 
gual the rest of the world is. In Hong Kong alone one can easily find people fluent 
in Cantonese, Mandarin, English, Japanese and French, and that’s just the 
beginning. This Ability represents your skill at comprehending various spoken or 
written languages. Its common use is to represent tutelage in one or more languages 
other than your native tongue. The language(s) learned can be anything from 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ancient hieroglyphics to common national languages to complex dialects. It may 
even be the ancient stylized script of the Kuei-jin, known as kaja. In the caSe of 
languages known, they must be specified when the Linguistics Ability is chosen. 
One level of Linguistics allows a character one language in addition to her native 
one, two levels allow two additional languages, a third trait allows four languages, 
four levels indicate eight languages, and five levels of Linguistics means a character 
can know up to 16 languages. 
This skill allows you and 
e who also knows the language to speak 
privately. Those who wish to c 
in another language (but cannot actually 
do so) should hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb making an L-shape 
to indicate to other players the characters are not speaking English. Those who 
wish to listen in must also possess the language. Furthermore, you can translate data 
for yourself or others, though a Static Mental Challenge may be required to do so. 
Linguistics also allows for identifying accents, reading lips, picking up slang and a 
certain amount of linguistic mimicry. 
Finally, since many Eastern languages have wildly different dialects or 
alphabets, a character may spend one “language” level to become familiar with one 
whole language family. For example, a character whose native tongue is 
Shanghainese could take one level of Linguistics and select “Chinese” for her 
language, thus becoming fluent in Mandarin, Cantonese and all other dialects of 
Chinese. The Storyteller has final discretion over what constitutes a language 
family. 
Note: Yes, the “language family” rule is somewhat simplistic, but in the 
interests of game-play some shortcuts must be made. This version of Linguistics can 
also be considered to supersede the rules for Linguistics given in all previous Mind’s 
Eye Theatre games. 
Martial Arts 
Perhaps no other Ability matches the path of Dharma 
losely as Martial Am 
does. Those trained in this Ability learn how to perfect themselves and how to 
harness that perfection to achieve dramatic results in the world around them. 
However, such training is extremely demanding, requiring countless hours spent 
in training and testing, making this Ability accordingly expensive to purchase. 
Martial Arts costs two Traits per level to purchase at character creation. Addition- 
ally, absolutely no character may start with more than two levels of Martial Arts 
without an excellent reason for doing so and the express permission of the 
Storyteller. It costs three Experience Traits to buy a new level of MartiaIArts once 
play begins, and new levels may be purchased only with Storyteller permission. 
Martial Arts is more than simple fighting practice. It reflects a learned system 
of attacks and defenses that give the student the benefit of trained, effective 
reactions to danger rather than mere instinctual flailing. There are countless 
varieties ofmartial arts, many ofwhichhave sub-schools andsplinter groups within 
them. However, for game purposes, a character must declare only whether they 
have learned a “hard,” “soft” or “weapon” style. While players are encouraged to 
research specific styles for fun and authenticity, they need not to be martial arts 
experts to play their characters correctly. The immortal Kuei-jin have combined 
and invented many forms of martial arts unknown to the mortal world, after all. 
Hard styles focus on swift, powerful strikes delivered by any number of 
methods: fists, feet, knees, forearms, elbows, even the head. Karate, tae kwon do, 
kickboxing and many kung fu forms would be considered hard styles. Soft styles 
focus on defense, redirection and incapacitating a foe through nerve locks or joint 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


holds. Aikido, judo, jujutsu and tai chi chuan are all examples of soft styles. 
Weapon styles are just that - 
training in the use of a melee weapon which goes 
beyond the basic techniques of the Meke Ability into true mastery of one’s weapon. 
A single, specific type of weapon (katana, bo, nunchaku, etc.) must be declared for 
every two levels of a weapon style when it is purchased. Only these weapons receive 
the appropriate training bonuses. Wushu and ninjitsu are just a few of the many 
styles that contain weapon training. Many Kuei-jin see the hard styles as Yang- 
based, full of action and activity, and the soft styles as rooted in Yin, outwardly 
passive but inexorably efficient. 
Martial Arts replace Brawl. A character cannot possess both Abilities. A 
character may still purchase the different styles of Martial Arts. Each new style is 
treated as a different skill, and it must be paid for and advanced accordingly. (Thus, 
it is possible for a character to have three levels of hard-style Martial Arts and two 
levels of soft-style Martial Arts, two levels of hard style and one level of weapon 
style, or some similar arrangement.) With the exception of weapon styles, 
however, a character cannot “double up” on a style. He cannot learn two levels of 
tae kwon do and three levels of karate, for example, since both count as “hard” 
styles for the game purposes. In the case of weapon styles, the character may still 
possess the Meke Ability as a reflection of general armed talent, but he cannot use 
it for any retests with weapons for which he possesses a Martial Arts weapon style. 
A character who has three levels of Meke and one level of Martial Arts with the 
katana, for example, cannot use his Meke levels to retest any challenges he 
undertakes with his katana. That weapon is now solely the domain of his Martial 
Arts Ability. 
Benefits of Martial Arts 
Both Styles: Characters using their chosen style add their current level of 
Martial Arts to their Physical Traits for the purposes of resolving ties and overbids. 
This factor reflects the edge that martial-artists have over average brawlers. This 
bonus applies only if the martial-artist is using Martial Arts and attempting a 
challenge that falls within his style. A hard stylist delivering a kick, for example, 
or a soft stylist attempting to grapple an opponent. It would not apply, however, 
if the former was attempting to dodge an opponent or if the latter was trying to 
punch his foe, and it never applies to a character trying to simply soak damage. If 
in doubt, consult a Narrator as to whether a martial-artist’s bonus applies to a 
particular test he is undertaking. 
Hard Style: Practitioners of a hard style may expend one level of Martial Arts 
to attempt to deliver a lightning fast strike at the end of a normal combat turn, even 
if they lose the regular challenge itself. (Think of it as a blazingly quick strike that 
follows up another hit, or when a fighter gets hit with a kick only to smash the foe’s 
ankle in return.) This attack is conducted like a regular Physical Challenge except 
that the opponent may not attempt to harm the martial-artist as a result of the 
challenge, only attempt to soak the attack, unless he too expends a level of Martial 
Arts. This follow-up/ counterattack is resolved before a new round begins or any 
extra actions due to supernatural powers are taken, although pre-emptive powers 
(such as Alacrity) may be used to try to prevent this strike. Only one follow-up/ 
counterattack may be delivered per turn, and it cannot be retested with Abilities 
by the martial-artist (although he may attempt to overbid, if applicable). 
Soft Style: Many soft styles stress trips and throws. However, the real strength 
of such styles is the ability to put submission holds or nerve locks on enemies, thus 
greatly reducing their ability to fight effectively. This process is more difficult than 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the aggressive action of hard styles, but if executed successfully, it allows much 
greater control over one’s enemy. Accordingly, the benefits of asoft style are harder 
to enact than a hard style, but more potent once secured. First the martial-artist 
must specifically declare that he is attempting a hold or lock of some kind and win 
a Physical Challenge to that effect (which does not inflict damage). If successful, 
however, the stylist may spend a level of Martial Arts to fully assert the powerful 
advantage he now holds. His opponent must first win a Physical Challenge to break 
free of the hold before she may make any attempt to injure him. Furthermore, he 
may choose to spend a level of Martial Arts to inflict damage as outlined in the 
description of hard styles. This damage does not come from a lightning-fast reprisal, 
but instead from the martial-artist ripping nerves and twisting limbs. 
Weapon Style: The player may add his current levels of Martial Arts to his 
Physical Traits for the purposes of resolving ties and overbids for challenges using 
his chosen weapons (and only those weapons). These Traits ad to any bonus Traits 
the weapon may have. In addition, opponents may not block the character’s retests 
with his weapon unless they too expend a level of Martial Arts to do so. The 
character is simply too skilled with his weapon to be so easily thwarted. 
Requirements of Martial Arts 
Training: 
Unlike the Brawl or Melee Abilities, characters cannot learn Martial 
Arts without a tutor. While many courts have a few warriors willing to teach the 
fighting arts, such training is seldom free, and it requires a great deal of time and 
discipline in any event. No teacher can teach a student a higher level of Ability 
than he himself possesses. A sensei with three levels of Martial Arts cannot train a 
student to the fourth level ofMartial Arts. Whole stories can be constructed around 
the search for advanced masters to study from, and the Storyteller is free to forbid 
advancement in this Ability to any character who cannot meet the proper 
requirements of time and teacher. 
Furthermore, once a degree of mastery in the martial arts is obtained, it must 
be maintained with regular training and exercise. As a rule of thumb, at least one 
half-hour of practice per level of Martial Arts is required per night if the character 
wishes to retain his fighting edge. Characters who use weapon styles are likewise 
expected spend the necessary time keeping their weapons in top condition. 
Storytellers should feel free to reduce the levels of Martial Arts available to a 
character temporarily if some sort of regular training schedule is not met. Obvi- 
ously, a character should not be docked levels if he just skips one or two nights at 
the dojo, but a character who misses practice constantly should expect his skills to 
grow a little “rusty” before long. This fact should be especially clear as characters 
reach the higher levels of Martial Arts, since such mastery requires constant 
attention to keep in top form. 
Presence of Mind: Martial Arts absolutely may not be used while a character 
is in a state of fire or wave soul. Characters in those states have been reduced to 
total, primal instinct, and they do not have the patience or presence of mind for 
proper martial arts techniques. (Note: This applies to other character types as well. 
Hengeyokai, Western shapeshifters and Cainites in frenzy are likewise banned 
from employing Martial Arts.) 
Retests: With the exception of the special style abilities outlined above, 
opponents may still use Brawl, Melee, Dodge or even Firearms normally to block or 
retest any Martial Arts Challenge whenever applicable. Martial-artists are tough 
foes, but a student with only one level of Martial Arts still has little chance of 
besting a veteran fighter with five levels of Brawl. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Applicability: The Storyteller is the final arbiter of when martial arts benefits 
may aiay. For example, soft styles may not work well against some non-humanoid 
creatures (where are the pressure points on a rampaging Mukade?), while hard 
styles often have trouble with the vaporous nature of many spirits. 
Medicine 
This Ability represents your skill at treating the injuries, diseases and various 
ailments of living creatures, as well as how well you understand undead physiology 
and ailments. It also (naturally) includes Eastern medicinal practices such as 
acupuncture or even Taoist alchemy. Narrators can allow a living being under the 
treatment with someone with the Medicine Ability to recover a single health level 
per night with time and a Mental Challenge. The severity and nature of the 
damage, the equipment at your disposal and any assistance or distractions nearby 
all influence the difficulty of the challenge. 
Other uses of this Ability include some basic forensic information, diagnosis 
and pharmaceutical knowledge. Of course, knowledge of healing also implies a 
knowledge of what is harmful to the human form as well. 
Meditation 
Often considered absolutely essential to the Dharmic process, especially in its 
advanced stages, this Ability is the talent to focus and center one’s thoughts, 
calming the emotions, controlling the mind and relaxing the body. Kuei-jin may 
use this Ability to channel their thoughts and renew their resolve. To meditate, 
one does not necessarily need to be in any special position or have any special 
philosophy. While many schools exist that teach meditation postures and mantras, 
this Ability is ultimately very personal, and one for which you must develop your 
own technique. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, a player who has prepared herself with a 
suitable period of meditation - 
at least half an hour of uninterrupted contempla- 
tion, with no combat, conversation or heroics - 
and a successful Meditation 
Mental Challenge may put herself two Traits up on all tests to resist fire soul. 
Likewise, the Kuei-jin’s player may put herself two Traits down, if she wishes it to 
be easier to enter the battle state. 
Melee 
Learning from time spent running with vicious tongs, spending countless 
nights breaking bottles and chairs over the heads of others in seedy bars, or 
undergoing lethally efficient government training - 
whatever it took, you are 
now versed in a wide variety of armed combat skills. You can pick up just about 
anything, from a katana to a broken bottle to a billy-club, and use it effectively. The 
Meke Ability comes with knowledge of proper care for your weapons as well. A 
character without this Ability may not use any of the advantages of Abilities in 
armed combat, including retests. Note that highly specialized training in a 
particular weapon is the territory of the Martial Arts Ability. 
Occult 
The Middle Kingdom is a treasure trove of occult information derived from 
an explosive mix of cultures, and with the Occult Ability, some of these secrets are 
yours. Occult implies a general knowledge of things such as curses, feng shui, 
fortune-telling and dragon lines as well as information more specific to the 
supernatural beings that inhabit the world. Examples of applications include 
identifying the use and nature of visible magics, rites and rituals, understanding 
basic fundamentals of the occult and having knowledge of cults, tomes and artifacts. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Most uses of the Occult Ability involve a Mental Challenge. The difficulty of 
this challenge can be subject to many factors, such as obscurity, amount of existing 
data and the character’s individual scope of understanding (Kuei-jin know more 
about their own rites than they do those of the Sabbat, for example.). 
Performance 
This Ability actually covers the gamut of artistic expression, including 
singing, acting, dancing, playing musical instruments and similar skills. It grants 
you the gift to make your own original creations and/ or express these creations to 
your peers, in a chosen medium. The genius of your creativity or the power with 
which you convey it is determined by a Static Social Challenge. Some particularly 
sensitive types, such as Thrashing Dragons and Toreador Kindred, can even 
become entranced by the use of this skill - 
after first being defeated in a Social 
Challenge. 
In addition to actual performing ability, this Ability also measures how well 
you know the society surrounding your particular art form and how you fit in with 
that crowd. Advanced levels of Performance always involve some form of special- 
ization. This Ability can also be used to critique the works of others. 
Politics 
The world of influence-trading and favors is extensive enough among mortals. 
In the courts of Kuei-jin society, where one must struggle to balance outward 
obedience with inner ambition, the game of Politics is pervasive, if a bit more subtle 
than among the decadent Westerners. Through observation, intrigue and a bit of 
spin-doctoring, you’ve learned how to handle appearances, understand what a 
speech really means, and know where the deal-making is going on. In short, it’s 
Politics as usual. 
The Politics Ability is useful primarily in dealings with mortal society ot 
Influence. You may be able to manipulate the outcome of local political actions, 
with the proper Influence and some well-placed Social Challenges. Politics Ability 
ensures that matters proceed in the direction that you desire. Politics is also used to 
discern hidden motives and broker deals, and as such, it can prove invaluable in 
detecting a double-cross or power play. The hierarchies of power are also often 
visible as well: You can discover which of the mandarins holds true authority, for 
example, and which ate largely figureheads at their posts. Politics can also makes 
you aware of who’s in favor and who’s out. You can determine roughly how much 
faith a court entrusts in aparticular vampire, given advance knowledge of the local 
court scene and a successful Social Challenge. 
A knowledge of Politics includes, by extension, an understanding of the 
bureaucratic levels of power. You know how to cut through red tape, or how to 
obstruct others with it. By determining who’s important in a given social situation, 
you can usually avoid wasting time and go straight to the person with the power to 
do what you want. 
Repair 
You possess a working understanding of what makes things tick. This Ability 
covers everything from fixing cheap watches to overhauling expensive luxury cars, 
assuming, of course, that you have the time, tools and parts. You can fix or slightly 
alter most of the trappings of modem society. This Ability also allows you to excel 
at sabotage, should you choose to do so. Using this Ability usually calls for a Static 
Mental Challenge, the difficulty of which depends on such factors as the subject 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


of your attention’s complexity, the tools and parts available, the extent of the 
damage and the time spent on the repairs. 
Science 
The modem world invokes different mystic formulas to accomplish tasks than 
those used in previous Ages. Now, most of these spells are not found in tea leaves 
or dusty tomes, but in the precision and dedication of science. You happen to be 
trained in using and understanding these modem arts of miracle-working: You 
have a degree of factual and practical expertise in a single field of the hard sciences. 
This Ability measures not only theoretical knowledge but also how well you can 
put it to practical use. This knowledge allows you to identify properties of your field, 
perform experiments, fabricate items, bring about results and access information 
a player could not utilize normally. A Static Mental Challenge is necessary for all 
but the most trivial uses of this skill. The difficulty of the challenge depends on 
resources (equipment, data and so forth) available, complexity of the task and 
time. 
A field of study must be chosen when the Science Ability is taken. A few 
examples include physics, biology and chemistry. Other fields can be allowed at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. 
Scrounge 
Scrounge allows you to produce items through connections, trading, wits and 
ingenuity. While most people think all purchases are a matter of cash or credit, you 
know otherwise. You have a talent for acquiring items through less conventional 
channels, and while your means and suppliers may be less than reliable sometimes, 
there isn’t much you can’t get your hands on with enough time. Materials acquired 
with Scrounge aren’t always brand new or exactly right, and they often require some 
time to come by, but this Ability sometimes works where Finance and outright theft 
fail. A Static Mental or Social Challenge is necessary to use Scrounge. Some factors 
that influence the difficulty of the challenge include rarity and value of the item 
sought, as well as local supply and demand. 
Security 
Whichever side of the law you’ve worked on has granted you experience in 
Security techniques. You know about police operations and guard work, how they 
make their schedules and how they undertake their business. (Not to mention how 
to disrupt such operations.) Locks, traps, security systems and alarms are all within 
your purview. With a little time, you can put together security measures for a 
location. You can also defeat such measures. 
Use the Security Ability with Mental Traits to set up a secure area or network, 
or to formulate aplanfor breachingsuchanetwork. At thediscretionof aNarrator, 
you may be required to use a Physical Trait related to dexterity when attempting 
to bypass a physical lock or alarm. 
Stealth 
By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and quietly, 
you can evade notice or sneak past people. You know how best to take advantage 
of surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities for unnoticed 
movement are not lost on you, as you understand the uses of timing and diversion. 
With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past the 
notice of guards and searchers (who contest your Ability with their Mental Traits 
and Investigation Ability). You also use Stealth to augment certain Disciplines, such 
as the Basic level of the Yin Pram. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


You are well-versed in dealing with the underside of society, and you are able 
to walk in relative safety through neighborhoods and situations most people would 
rather avoid. This Ability is especially vital if one wishes to avoid a bullet in the 
head when dealing with tongs and triads, but it is also helpful when dealing with 
mundane criminal activity as well. Some uses of Streetwise, such as rumor- 
gathering, require a Social Challenge, the difficulty of which is influenced by such 
things as composition of the local community and the current situation (hot with 
crime or cool with indifference). 
Subterfuge 
Subterfuge is the art of deception and intrigue, and it relies on a social backdrop 
to work. When participating in a social setting or conversation with a subject, you 
can attempt to draw information out of him through trickery and careful probing. 
Information, such as one’s name, nationality, Negative Traits, friends and enemies 
can be revealed by a successful use of Subterfuge. 
The first requirement of gleaning information in this way involves getting 
your target to say something dealing with the desired knowledge, such as entering 
a conversation about foreign culture when you are really itching to find out where 
he comes from. If you can draw him out, you may then propose your true question 
and initiate a Social Challenge. If you win, then your target must forfeit the 
information (hopefully by roleplaying his faux pas). To use the Ability again, you 
must once again lure the target into a conversation. Subterfuge can be used to scent 
out acharacter’sNegativeTraits, but may not revealmore than OneNegativeTrait 
per session. Furthermore, it may be used to defend from others with Subterfuge. 
Conversely, the Subterfuge Ability may also be used to conceal information or 
lie without detection. 
Survival 
Not all places in the Middle Kingdom have been swallowed by the hectic 
crush of the cities. Indeed, the Wilderness beyond the urban lights remains vast and 
frightening in many places, especially for those unversed in surviving the elements. 
You have the knowledge and training to find food, water and shelter in a variety 
of wilderness settings. (While Kuei-jin have no need of conventional food and 
water, a source of Chi is still a must, as is a place to hide from the sun each day.) 
Each successful Static Mental or Physical Challenge allows you to provide the basic 
necessities for yourself or a single living creature for one day. This Ability can also 
be used to track down someone in a Wilderness setting. The Storyteller sets the 
nature and difficulty of the challenge. 
ach time you take this Ability, such as 
desert, arctic, plains or forest. While you your training allows you to know the 
essentials of surviving any clime, you’re most likely better acquainted with one or 
two familiar ones, which is a factor in determining the difficulty of the Survival 
Challenge. Other important factors include the abundance or scarcity of resources, 
time of year, equipment and type of wilderness. 
You should choose a concentrat 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Melee, in the case ot those learning weapon styles) to Murnal Arts simply 
divide their existing score in half (round up). The result is their new Martial 
Arts rating. In the case of weapons styles, the character may divide his 
4: current Meke rating in half (round up), and distribute the result between 
Martial Arts levels in his chosen weapon style and regular Meke levels. 
. .  
-t 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Your character’s Backgrounds help to flesh out ties with mortal agencies, role 
in vampire society and beneficial resources available. Each Background is used 
differently. In general, having multiple Traits in a given Background allows for 
better or more common use of that benefit. Some Backgrounds affect your 
character’s creation and development directly; others come in o play later during 
the game. 
k\ 
4- 
A few friends, either kept from your mortal days or made after the Road Back 
began, help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few calls and cut a few deals 
to get assistance in a wide range of activities. Your Storyteller will probably require 
you to define how you keep your allies and their relations to you. 
Each Allies Trait possessed represents one person that you can call on for aid. 
Unlike Influence, your allies have special talents that make them better than the 
average person on the street. Though your allies may not be aware of your vampire 
nature, they can be quite useful if directed properly. 
In general, your allies do not show up in play directly. Instead, you can use 
them for certain services between play sessions, by notifying your Storyteller: 
An ally can be directed to follow up on research or activities that you have 
started. If you undertook a specific task previously, like tailing someone, research- 
ing a project or building a device, your allies can continue the work, doing so with 
one Ability Trait’s worth of expertise. As long as they work on the project, your 
Allies Trait for the individual is tied up. 
If you need a particularly competent ally, you can expend multiple Traits to 
gain access to a mortal with multiple levels of an Ability or Influence. Each Allies 
Trait that you spend after the first gives an extra level of expertise to your allies. 
They may use this expertise on your behalf, though rarely with your own skill, and 
they only help as long as you tie up your Allies Background Traits in this manner. 
An ally can help you to hunt, though obviously, it’s not a good idea to rely 
on your allies as Chi sources, or to even tell them exactly what they’re doing when 
they bring people to you. Each Trait of Allies that you use for hunting lets you make 
a Simple Test. A win or tie grants you one additional Chi Trait. Doing so counts 
as a project that lasts for the entire time between game sessions. 
Be wary of calling on your allies too often. An ally may call on you for mutual 
aid or refuse to help if pressed into dangerous or illegal activities. 
cow== 
With the right contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts of 
useful information. Although having an “ear to the wall” doesn’t necessarily 
provide you with good help or loyal servants, it does mean that you know who to 
ask when looking for the movers and shakers behind the scenes. 
In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and 
information. When you call on your contacts, you make a few phone calls, check 
with likely snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and 
information as if possessed of a certain amount of Influence. Doing so lets you find 
out exactly what’s going on in the city within a particular area. You can get 
information of a level equal to however many contacts you use. If you use Contacts 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


x 3 on Industry, for instance, you get information as if digging up dirt with Industry 
x 3 Influence. The advantage of the Contacts Background is that contacts can be 
switched from place to place each game, getting information in different areas at 
your demand. 
Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require you 
to spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of a Storyteller. On 
occasion, accidents can cause contacts in one area to dry up, such as a strike that 
affects your Industry contacts, or a particularly unlucky astronomical conjunction 
sends your Occult contacts running for the hills. Your contacts will not generally 
function as aides or lackeys. That behavior is the purview of the Allies and 
Retainers Backgrounds. 
Example: Uncle Chu, a Westernized Bone Flower heimin, knows someone just 
about everywhere in Hong Kong (i.e., he has Contacts x 5). This month, his player, 
Phong, decides that Chu is going to engage in a little local rum-mongering. Phong 
allocates Contacts x4 to Media, leanzingabout localnews stories that haven’t quite made 
the papers and who has their hands in the those pies still on the shelf. He leaves one level 
of Contacts in reserve, for unlife’s unexpected crises. Next month, he plans to we his 
contacts to find a few High Society types who would be happy to pay for a little dirt on 
their rivals. . . . 
Fm 
Some Kuei-jin were famous during their breathing days, ripped from the ranks 
of the wealthy or talented elite by their death. As a result, many Cathayans can 
make a claim to some distinction in their mortal years. Though such notoriety 
often fades with the years, your Fame lingers on to influence mortal society. 
Fame allows you to exercise your connections over a longer distance than 
usual. Certainly, if you’ve got the right Influence, you can push things around on 
a provincial or even national scale, but with Fame, you can just make a few calls 
and get your Contacts, Influence or Resources exerted over a greater range without 
any impediment. Not that you must have Fame to get anything done, only that it 
may help. Your total Fame determines your maximum range for unimpeded use of 
your Contacts, Influence and Resources. 
When you make an effort to exert your Contacts, Influence or Resources over 
a long range, you lean on your popularity and image, thus expending your Fame 
Traits until the next game session. Fame is most often used in the downtime 
between sessions to facilitate long-range plans. 
In a less mechanical fashion, your Fame also dictates how recognizable you are 
to mortals, for one reason or another. The Storyteller will certainly make the 
effects of your Fame apparent, and mortals may take notice of you at bothersome 
times. Having your likeness known to all the local police or being spotted at the 
prime minister’s estate does things to one’s reputation, after all. 
Fame does have its limitations. It makes little sense for you to have this 
Background if you’re known to be dead in the mortal world, unless you somehow 
acquired your Fame after the Second Breath (and have managed to keep your 
vampiric nature secret). Also, Fame does not always indicate widespread instant 
name recognition. You may be known to only a subset of a particular group or a 
recognized expert in a field who’s unknown to those outside. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Whether surrounding yourself with mortal cultists (as do many Kuei-jin), or 
just making sure that you have regular access to fresh Chi reserves, your herd gives 
you a guaranteed volume of Chi for sustenance. You don’t have to go very far to 
hunt. When available to you, your herd offers you a safe and easy way to sustain your 
powers. 
You should work with your Storyteller to describe the exact nature of your 
herd, since these Traits can be lost through hazards or deliberate sabotage. You 
could have mortals who have come to enjoy elaborate blood tea ceremonies, access 
to medical blood supplies outside of the normal channels or a religious cult that 
gives you blood freely. Each Trait of Herd can be used to gain one extra Chi Trait 
once per session. You can partake of your herd immediately on entering the game 
to represent that you have fed previously, thus improving your blood from your 
starting Traits for the evening. You can also take 15 minutes out of play to call on 
a herd and gain a Chi Trait. You can split up Herd Traits if you wish, so you may 
use some Traits to start with extra blood, then use more later to replace spent 
reserves. 
Members of your herd (assuming it is composed of people and not plastic bags) 
are not necessarily particularly competent or loyal - 
they simply let you feed from 
them, for whatever reason. You must take Allies or Reminers if you want them to 
do other tasks for you. Note also that the type of Chi gained can vary widely 
depending on the herd itself - 
fresh, Yang-laced blood of ecstatic cultists is quite 
different from Yin-laden medical supplies - 
and the Storyteller is free to change 
the type of Chi received depending on the circumstances of your feeding. 
You were born under especially auspicious - 
or baleful - 
stars. Many 
vampires treat such omens very seriously, and new Kuei-jin are often subjected to 
a thorough astrological analysis before they are presented to the court formally. 
One’s horoscope is often equated with one’s destiny, and those with high ratings 
in this Background often find themselves the beneficiaries (or victims) of strange 
coincidences, dew ex machina events and other oddities, which provide ideal 
material for a clever Storyteller. 
In game terms, a character who wishes to invoke his Huroscojx rating must 
comer the Storyteller, expend a level of Horoscope and perform a test. In this test, 
both parties display a number of fingers from zero (show a fist) to five, adding the 
two numbers together to get a result between zero to 10. If the result is one of the 
vampire’s “lucky numbers,” she receives some boon from fate. The Storyteller has 
the final say on what occurs, but it should be beneficial for the vampire, and it can 
be quite dramatic. (This is Heaven talking, after all.) Some examples of Horoscope 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


benefits include: a Fair Escape, a surprise, an automatic success on one challenge 
or a few temporary levels of Influence. Storytellers are encouraged to go beyond 
simple numbers and game mechanics when invoking Horoscope, however. A 
vampire’s lucky numbers are determined by his direction and his Dharma as 
follows: North 6, West 9, Center 5, East 8, South 7; Devil-Tiger 2, Bone Flower 4, 
Resplendent Crane 1, Thousand Whispers 0, Thrashing Dragon 3. If a “10” is the 
result, shoot again at no cost to the vampire. 
Example dPlay Kun A h ,  cornered by a vicious tong, spends a lewel of Horoscope 
and caUs on joss to help him. He is a Thrashing Dragon of the south drrectiun, so his lucky 
numbers are 3 and 7 (DhmmaJdirection) , and k has three pennmmt levels of Horoscope. 
The SwryteUer comes over and the two of them shoot fingers. Allen‘s player shows three 
fingers, the StoryteUer two -afiwe, 
TUJ luck. A h  
spends a lewel of Horoscope to retest - 
zerofingers tofuur, resdtinginafourandnwre toughluckforAllen. Hespdhishtlevel 
of Horoscope and they shoot - 
zerofingers to three, resdtingina three and success! Allen 
breathes a sigh of relief as the Storyteller announces a police &er 
has picked h moment 
to drive by the alley, causing the tong to fie.. . for now. 
Mortal society builds on institutions. As humans raise their cities, they form 
gatherings of expertise that are manipulated by the Cathayans hiding in their 
midst. If you have Influence, you can sway the direction of some areas of mortal 
society, pushing cities to grow as you direct. Your Influence can be used to strike 
indirectly at your foes while protecting your own assets, or to gain information and 
special resources. Kuei-jin may have some relaxed restrictions on dealing with 
mortals compared to the Westerners and their Masquerade, but raw supernatural 
might will only carry one so far. After a certain point, knowing where to turn to 
get things done is far more important than shaking down clerks and otherwise 
throwing one’s weight around. 
Influence comes in many different areas. You must allocate Traits separately 
to each Influence; thus, if you have Legal x 4, you could still have Police x 3 
independently but you would have to spend the Traits for each. 
You cannot manage more Influence than the sum of your permanent Physical, 
Social and Mental Traits combined. This limit counts against all of your total 
Influence - 
your combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, there are 
only so many things you can do in a night. 
When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary Influence Traits. The 
tables for various Influence areas detail what you can do with a specific number of 
Traits. Performing an action requires a number of Traits equal to the level of the 
action. (You must use three Traits to perform an action listed at the third level of 
an Influence chart, for instance.) Thus, with high levels of Influence, you can 
perform many small actions, or a few significant ones. 
Certain levels of Influence gift you with items, money or aides. Unlike the 
Resources Background, money and equipment garnered with Influence does not 
come automatically each month. If you want a steady income from Influence, you 
must direct your Influence in that direction continually, and this income does not 
come with any associated trappings of wealth (you’d have to buy a house and car 
separately, for instance). Aides garnered with Influence generally help only for one 
specific task, and they usually have the equivalent of only one level of Ability in 
their area of skill - 
for more competent and readily available help, take Allies. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


. -  
Most cities have only a set amount of Influence in various areas. For instance, 
Hong Kong has a great deal of Finance Influence, because it is one of the 
commercial centers in Asia, while Shanghai would have a lot of Transportation and 
Industry Influence. A rural city, on the other hand, might have very little Influence 
to go around. You can only squeeze so much from a community of farmers and 
tradesmen, after all. 
Storytellers should map out the total amount of each type of Influence to be 
had in the city. Once all of the Influence of a given type is used up, the only ways 
to get more are to grow that area of society (making new projects or sponsoring 
investment), to destroy someone else’s Influence in order to free up those resources 
or to acquire an adversary’s Influence in an area. Also, each city may have different 
reflections of the Influences listed here. A city with a thriving independent film 
community is going to have a different picture of Media or High Society than a city 
where the arts are being literally starved out due to budget cuts or are scrutinized 
closely by the government. 
Each area of Influence has its own description. Elder vampires may possess 
truly far-reaching Influence, giving them the power to exert control beyond the 
levels included here. 
Bu~qrsutqacr 
You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing with 
social programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and 
regulations or twist bureaucratic regimentation to your advantage. Bureaucracy - 
endemic in many societies of the Middle Kingdom - 
is essential for operating or 
shutting down businesses, faking or acquiring permits and identification papers 
and manipulating public utilities and facilities. Government clerks at the city and 
county level, utility workers, road crews, surveyors and other civil servants are 
potential contacts or allies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license 
Disconnect a single small residence’s utilities 
Close a small road or park 
Get public aid ($250) 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card 
Close a public school for a single day 
Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Fake land deeds 
Initiate a department-wide investigation 
Start, stop or alter a citywide program or policy 
Shut down a big business on a violation 
Rezone areas 
Obliterate records of a person on a city or county level 
3 
4 
Initiate a phone tap 
5 
-r(= 
The lure of faith is strong, and wily Kuei-jin can use the appeal of religion to 
achieve great results among the policies. Organized religion still exerts consider- 
able influence over the direction of communities (which may influence politics), 
and it can even be used as a weapon against one’s enemies in the form oiprotests 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


and the like. Knowing the appropriate people allows insight into many mainstream 
religions, such as Hinduism, Shinto, Buddhism, Islam or Christianity (fringe or 
alternative groups, such as Scientology, are considered Occult). When you exercise 
Church Influence, you can change religious policy, affect the assignment of clergy 
and access a variety of lore and resources. Contacts and allies affected by Church 
Influence would include priests, bishops, church-sponsored witch-hunters, holy 
orders and various attendees and assistants. 
c o s t  
Effect 
1 
Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local area 
Pass as a member of the clergy 
Peruse general church records (baptism, marriage, burial, etc.) 
2 
Identify higher church members 
Track regular church members 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church 
3 
Find the average church-associated hunter 
Dip into the collection plate ($250) 
Access private information and archives of a church 
Discredit or suspend high-level church members 
Manipulate regional branches of the church 
Access ancient church lore and knowledge 
4 
5 
Organize major protests 
5 
R w =  
Manipulating markets, stock reports and investments is a hobby of many 
Cathayans, especially those who use their knowledge to keep hidden wealth. 
Though your actual available money is a function of your Resources, you can use 
Finance Influence to start or smother businesses, crush or support banking institu- 
tions and alter credit records. Clearly, such power over money is not to be trifled 
with - 
fortunes are made and destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, 
stockbrokers, bank tellers, yes-men, financiers and loan agents are found among 
such work. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about major transactions and financial events 
Raise capital ($1,000) 
Learn about general economic trends 
Learn real motivations for many financial actions of others 
Trace an unsecured small account 
Raise capital to purchase a small business (single, small store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a single large 
store or service) 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some 
credit-rating alterations) 
Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect of city-wide banking (shut off ATMs, 
arrange a bank “holiday”) 
Ruin a large business 
Purchase a major company 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Some vampires rely on connections in the medical community to acquire 
blood. Flesh-eaters and practitioners of arcane arts may also require body parts or 
medical data to further their studies. Furthermore, the carnage caused by chihcmei 
and other crimes unique to the Kuei-j in often calls for alteration of medical records 
or faking of particular diseases. Some Cathayans even specialize in the study of 
blood-borne ailments. All of these sorts of research and development fall under the 
purview of Health Influence. Coroners, doctors, lab workers, therapists, pharma- 
cists and specialists are just a few of the people found in this field. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Access a person’s health records 
Fake vaccination records and the like 
Use public functions of health centers at your leisure 
Get a single Chi Trait of mortal blood (almost certainly heavily 
aspected to Yin) 
Access some medical research records 
Have minor lab work done 
2 
3 
4 
Get a copy of a coroner’s report 
Instigate minor quarantines 
Corrupt results of tests or inspections 
Alter medical records 
Acquire a body 
Completely rewrite medical records 
Abuse grants for personal use ($250) 
Have minor medical research performed on a subject 
Institute large-scale quarantines 
Shut down businesses for “health code violations’’ 
Have special research projects performed 
Have people institutionalized or released 
5 
WqWSOqETX 
The glitterati at the top of society move in circles of wealth and elegance. 
Many Kuei-jin find such positions alluring, and they indulge in the passions of the 
famous and wealthy. In some parts of the Middle Kingdom, the elite live like 
royalty of old, and the benefits of such standing are obvious to even the most 
anarchistic individuals. Access to famous actors, celebrities and the idle rich grants 
a certain sway over fashion trends. Combined with Fame, a modicum of High 
Society Influence turns a vampire into a debonair darling of the most exclusive 
social circles. Among these circles, one finds dilettantes, artists of almost any 
stripe, old-money families, models, rock stars, sports figures and jetesetters. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn what is trendy 
Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows 
Leam about concerts, shows or plays well before they are made public 
Track most celebrities and luminaries 
Be a local voice in the entertainment field 
“Borrow” idle cash from rich friends ($1,000) 
2 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


4 
5 
3 
Crush promising careers 
4 
Minor celebrity status 
5 
/YDUSqX 
The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. 
Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, churning 
out the staples of everyday living. Control over lndwtry Influence sways the 
formation of unions, the movements of work projects, locations for factories and 
the product of manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, engineers, 
construction workers, manual laborers and all manner of blue-collar workers exist 
among these ranks. 
Hobnob well above your station 
Get a bnef appearance on a talk show that’s not about to be canceled 
Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh gathering 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Have minor projects performed 
Learn about industrial projects and movements 
Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash ($500) 
Arrange small accidents or sabotage 
Appropriate machinery for a short time 
Close down a small plant 
Revitalize a small plant 
3 
Organize minor strikes 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
w= 
Since many of the operations that Cathayans undertake are at least marginally 
illegal, a good amount of sway over judges and lawyers is indispensable. Those 
Kuei-jin who dabble in law often pull strings in the courts to make sure that the 
questionable practices of Cathayan society go unnoticed and unpunished. Of 
course, a little Legal Influence is also excellent for harassing an enemy’s assets, too. 
Such Influence ranges from law schools and firms, to lawyers, judges, DAs, clerks 
and public defenders. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charge 
Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and contracts, court dates) 
Access public or court funds ($250) 
Get representation in most court cases 
Issue subpoenas 
Tie up court cases 
Have most legal charges dropped 
Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations 
Have deportation proceedings held against someone 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Directing media attention away from vampire acti 
is a key component 
of nightly unlife. Putting specific emphasis on certain events can place an enemy 
in an uncomfortable spotlight or discredit a rival. With Media, you can crush or 
alter news stories, control the operations of news stations and reporters and sway 
public opinion, with DJs, editors of all varieties, reporters, cameramen, photogra- 
phers and broadcasters at your disposal. At Storyteller discretion, Media Influence 
may also allow access to the more technical areas of television, radio or movies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Learn about breaking stories early 
Submit small articles (within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports 
Get hold of investigative reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports 
Get project funding and waste it ($250) 
Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
Kill small local articles or reports completely 
OCCULT 
The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and 
unusual factions. Obviously, a vampire is aware that there are strange things out 
there by dint of his very existence (after all, if vampires exist...), but hard 
knowledge of such things is a function of Abilities. By using Occult Influence, you 
can dig up information to improve your knowledge, get inside the occult commu- 
nity and find rare components for magical rituals. Fangshih, cult leaders, alternative 
religious groups, charlatans, occultists, New Agers and a few more dangerous 
elements can be found here. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
Know the general vicinity of ce 
ural entities and 
Contact and make use of common occult groups and their practices 
Know some of the more visible occult figures 
Know and contact some of the more obscure occult figures 
Access resources for most rituals and rites 
(possibly) contact them 
Access vital or rare material cc 
Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($L50) 
Access occult tomes and writings 
Research a Basic Rite 
4 
Research an Intermediate Rite 
5 
Access minor magic items 
Unearth an Advanced Rite 
9 0 L p  
“To protect and serve” is the motto of the police, but these days, Kuei-jin and 
mortals alike may have cause to wonder who is being protected and served. That 
said, Police Influence can be very handy to assist with Shadow War, to protect one’s 
holdings or to raid the assets of another. After all, no amount of swagger will save 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the kyonshi whose haven is the target of a daylight raid. Police of all ranks, 
detectives, clerical staff, dispatchers, prison guards, special divisions (such as 
SWAT or homicide) and local highway patrol make up these ranks. 
5 
2 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn police procedures 
Hear police information and rumors 
Avoid traffic tickets 
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) 
Get “inside information” 
Get copies of an investigation report 
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone 
Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband 
Have some serious charges dropped 
Start an investigation 
Get money, either from the evidence room or as an 
appropriation ($1,000) 
Institute major investigations 
Arrange setups 
Instigate bureau investigations 
Have officers fired 
2 
Have license plates checked 
3 
4 
*owcar, 
Deal-making is second nature to most vampires, so they can get along very 
well with other bloodsuckers - 
that is, politicians. Altering party platforms, 
controlling local elections, changing appointed offices and calling in favors all falls 
under the purview of Political Influence. Well-timed blackmail, bribery, spin- 
doctoring or any sundry tricks are stock in trade on both sides of this fence. Some 
of the likely contacts and allies include pollsters, lobbyists, activists, party mem- 
bers, spin-doctors and politicians from rural zoning committees to the mayors of 
major cities or parliamentary representatives. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Minor lobbying 
Identify real platforms of politicians and parties 
Be in the know 
Meet small-time politicians 
Gamer inside information on processes, laws and the like 
Use a slush fund or fund-raiser ($1,000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, renovations, 
small construction) 
Enact minor legislation 
Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office 
Enact encompassing legislature 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Ignored and often spat on by their “betters,” those in the dark alleys and slums 
have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who might come 
calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections on the 
underside of the city to find the homeless, gang members of all sorts, street buskers, 
petty criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums and fringe elements of so-called 
“deviant” cultures. In many Asian cities (Calcutta, Jakarta, Shanghai, Bangkok), 
where the streets are small metropoli unto themselves, those with Influence there 
wield far more power than many might suspect. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Open an ear for the word on the street 
Identify most gangs and know their turf and habits 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of society 
Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life 
Access small-time contraband 
Get insight into other areas of Influence 
Arrange some services from street people or gangs 
Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons 
Panhandle or hold a “collection” ($250) 
Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG 
Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations 
Control a single medium-sized gang 
Arrange impressive protests by street people 
3 
4 
Mobilize groups of homeless 
5 
~
W
~
O
~
~
O
Y
 
Most Cathayans make their havens in defensible parts of cities. Traveling 
across the wilderness is difficult, with the problems of daylight, hengeyokai and 
even mortal hunters such as the Shih. Without this Influence, the vampiric world 
shrinks into islands of “civilization” with dangerous wastelands in between. 
Getting access to special supplies and services can also take a measure of Trumpor- 
tation. All these things can be controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, harbors, 
railroads, airports, taxis, border guards, pilots and untold hundreds, as well as more 
mundane aspects like shipping and travel arrangements. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Know what goes where, when and why 
Travel locally quickly and freely 
Track an unwary target if he uses public transportation 
Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed) from mundane 
threats (robbery, terrorism, sunlight, etc.) 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel 
Avoidmostsupematuraldangerswhentraveling(suchasHakken) 
Shut down one form of transportation (bus lines, ships, planes, 
trains, etc.) temporarily 
Route money your way ($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel 
Smuggle with impunity 
3 
4 
5 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


2 
3 
The world of crime offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle 
leaders. Guns, money, drugs and vice - 
such delicious pastimes can be led by 
anyone talented or simply vicious enough to take them. Underworld Influence lets 
you call on such favors for all manner of illegal dealings, and its ranks are filled by 
tongs, triads, drug dealers, bookies, Yakuza, hitmen, fences and criminal gangs. 
Cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, petty 
gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen cars 
Hire muscle to rough someone up 
Fence stolen loot 
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG 
Arrange a minor “hit” 
Meet someone in “the Family” 
3 
4 
Make white-collar crime connections 
5 
Arrange gangland assassinations 
Hire a demolition man or firebug 
Supply local drug needs 
w m s l n  
Institutions of learning and research are the purview of the University 
Influence. Access to the halls of learning can help you with any number of 
resources, from ancient languages to research assistance to many impressionable 
young minds. School boards, students from kindergarten through college, graduate 
students, professors, teachers, deans, scholastic orders and a variety of staff fill the 
ivy-covered halls. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know layout and policy of local schools 
Have access to low-level university resources 
Get records up to the high school level 
Know a contact or two with useful knowledge or Abilities 
Have minor access to facilities 
Fake high school records 
Obtain college records 
Call in faculty favors 
Cancel a class 
Fix grades 
Discredit a student 
Organize student protests and rallies 
Discredit faculty members 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
J r n E r s l f W  
You own a talisman of true jade, jade which is attuned to either Yin or Yang 
energies. This item may take any form from a figurine to a sword guard, and it allows 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


you to store Chi of the appropriate type in it for later use - 
a mystic battery, if you 
will. Such pieces are very rare, and you may have to fend off jealous rivals, especially 
if it is very powerful. Charging the talisman is accomplished by traveling to an area 
where the Wall is thin (rated 6 or lower) and making a number of Simple Tests of 
the talisman’s rating against the Wall’s rating, one Simple Test for each level of the 
talisman. For each Simple Test you win, the talisman gains one point of Chi. You 
may attempt to do so only once per night. 
To use the stored Chi, you need only touch the talisman and concentrate 
(putting you two Traits down if you are attempting actions such as combat at the 
same time). When you do so, the desired amount of Chi enters your body to be used 
normally, to power Disciplines, heal wounds or engage in other activities. Note: 
This talisman does not allow you to use more Chi per turn than your Dharma rating 
allows. 
The myths and legends of the Middle Kingdom are full of items that possessed 
mystical power and legendary histories, and many courts pass such artifacts down 
to their younger members as a tangible means of handing down tradition, provided 
the young ones seem worthy. Many families (both living and unliving) also pass 
down ancestral relics and heirlooms to worthy ancestors, some of which may also 
contain mystic properties. You are one of these lucky souls. 
You possess a mystical item of some sort that is capable of producing 
supernatural results. If you are chosen to carry one of these items, you have received 
a great honor, and you should take your responsibility very seriously. A Kuei-jin 
entrusted tocarry one ofthese itemsmaydraw onitspowers. Thestoryteller assigns 
an item appropriate to the level of Background taken. Picking your own magic 
artifact is not allowed. You may attempt to persuade the Storyteller with an 
excellent story as to why your character would have a particular item, but in the 
end, her decision is final. 
An older or more experienced Cathayan looks after you and comes to your aid 
occasionally. Whatever the case, you can get assistance from your mentor, though 
his favor may be fickle. 
When you call on your mentor, you risk a certain number of Traits to achieve 
agiven effect. A lowly one-Trait mentor probably knows only little more than you, 
while a five-Trait mentor may well have luminous standing within your court and 
a wide range of potent powers. Regardless, taking up your mentor’s valuable time 
is costly. You must engage in a Simple Test when you call on your mentor. If you 
succeed, your mentor deigns to aid you. If you tie, your mentor grants you 
assistance, but then requires something in return. If you fail, your mentor demands 
the favor first before helping. In any case, your mentor can be called on only once 
in any given game session, and only if you have an appropriate way to contact him 
or her. In tradition-bound Kuei-jin society, abusing one’s mentor without a trace 
of gratitude is a fast way to lose that mentor. 
The level of aid that your mentor can give depends on the number of Traits 
in this Background (and Storyteller approval, of course): 
For one Trait, your mentor is privy to a single piece of specialized 
information at a level above your own. If you have Kuei-jin Lore x 2, for instance, 
your mentor can be called on to gift you with one piece of information from Kuei- 
jin Lore x 3. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


For two Traits, you can borrow one level of Contacts, Influence, Resources 
or Status from your mentor for the duration of the game. If your mentor is very 
powerful (four or five Traits), you can borrow two levels. 
Two Traits allow your mentor to instruct you in a Basic Discipline that you 
do not know. 
For three Traits, your mentor can instruct you in an Intermediate Discipline 
that you do not know. 
Your mentor can also train you in the ways of a special Hobby/ Professional/ 
Expert Ability that is outside your normal ken (such as Hsien Lore) at a cost of three 
Traits. 
For four Traits, your mentor can train you in an Advanced Discipline 
beyond your grasp. 
For five Traits, your mentor can train you in the phenomenal powers of the 
elders, if you are up to the challenge. 
Since mentors can prove unbalancing by providing too many different powers 
over the course of a long game, the Storyteller may lower your total Mentor Traits 
as you call on his knowledge. This decrease represents the fact that as your 
character learns the mentor’s secrets, the mentor has less left to teach. 
Nus* 
You (or your wu) has a nushi spirit that watches over you. When a wu is 
formed, its members often choose a nushi spirit to adopt them. This spirit is then 
summoned by all the members of the wu, and is created using the total score of the 
wu’s Nushi Background. Costs to build the spirit are as follows: 
One Trait 
One Trait 
One Trait 
One Trait 
Two Traits 
Two Traits 
Two Traits 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
Five Traits 
Five Traits 
Provides three Traits to divide among the nushi’s Willpower, 
Yin and Yang ratings (minimum of one each). 
Provides 10 Traits of Chi. 
The nushi can speak aloud (you do not require a spirit-speaking 
power to converse with it). 
The nushi can locate and appear in the presence of any wu 
member. 
The nushi spends the majority of its time with the wu, and is 
ready to help out. 
The nushi has a degree of respect among fellow spirits (may 
retest asingle Social Challenge with another spirit per session). 
Provides one Charm. 
Per extra wu member who can use the nushi’s powers in the 
same turn. (See page 228) 
Nushi’s mystical connection to the wu members is so strong 
that they can communicate mentally with one another effec 
tively at any time (at Storyteller’s discretion). 
Nushi can contact and interact with the physical world for brief 
periods of time when the need is great. 
Nushi is feared by agents of the Yama Kings (allows wu 
members to incite wave soul in demonic creatures, as per 
Charm: Incite Frenm; cost is three Yin Chi; Mental Challenge 
versus target’s Willpower). 
For more information on building a nushi spirit, see page 228. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some 
solid resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, 
these resources are always readily available, and they come to you automatically 
due to your investments, jobs and holdings. 
Your number of Resources Traits determines the amount of money and capital 
that you can secure. By expending temporary Resources Traits (which return at the 
next game session), you can draw on your regular income, as shown in the 
accompanying table. If you expend permanent Resources, you can divest yourself 
of holdings, allowing access to 10 times the amount shown on the table. However, 
the limits of what you can buy are always adjudicated by the Storyteller. Truly 
powerfulusesofResourmareht left todowntimesandmodaationbetweengamesessio~ 
~ = w w w  
Whether out of personal loyalty, love, Soul Disciplines or some other power, 
you have managed to secure the fellowship of a mortal (or several mortals) who 
obeys your every whim. Unlike the Allies Background, your retainers are nearly 
always around, overseeing your personal effects, defending your property and 
furthering your goals. They may not have the specialized knowledge of allies, but 
they are mostly loyal to your cause, and they serve your needs first. 
You should work with your Storyteller to determine how you managed to 
secure a loyal retainer. Your retainer’s exact capabilities are up to the Storyteller. 
A retainer may be skillful but unmotivated, or loyal but inept. No retainer is ever 
perfect, but they all can be a great help. 
A retainer can be assigned to watch over a particular location. Generally, 
if someone attempts to break into your house, the retainers there will attempt to 
stop the intruder. In this case, they are treated as normal humans, run by Narrators. 
A retainer can be used to manage your assets and perform tasks. Retainers 
tied up in this fashion allow you to manage more Influence than normal; they add 
to the number of Attribute Traits that you possess for purposes of counting your 
total Influences. Each retainer directed in this fashion adds one to your maximum 
Influence Traits. If retainers are later lost, killed or reassigned, the excess Influence 
Traits are lost, starting with the highest levels of Influence held. 
Aretainer can perform other menial functions, as allowed by the Storyteller. 
You can get someone else to pick up your character’s dry-cleaning. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The Kuei+jin have many mysteries, rites and celebrations, and thanks to this 
Background, you know some of them intimately. You are versed in the traditions 
and order of these rites, and you can identify them by drawing on your knowledge 
of them (the player must win or tie a Static Mental Challenge to do so). 
Furthermore, you may have been taught how to perform a few of these rites. 
One Trait: 
Has knowledge of Basic Rites and can perform one Basic Rite. 
Two Traits 
Has knowledge of Basic Rites and can perform two Basic Rites. 
Three Traits 
Has knowledge of Basic and Intermediate Rites, and can 
perform three Basic Rites. 
Four Traits: 
Has knowledge of Basic and Intermediate Rites, and can 
perform four Basic Rites 
Five Traits: 
Has knowledge of Basic, Intermediate and Advanced Rites, 
and can perform five Basic Rites and one Intermediate Rite. 
Individual rites may be learned by any Kuei-jin who can find a 
willing teacher and is willing to pay the appropriate experience 
cost. Teachers often ask would-be students for hefty favors or 
require difficult quests before passing on their guarded 
knowledge. But in these troubled days, the truly wise realize the 
importance of making sure the ancient rites are remembered 
and passed on. 
Note: What this Background purchases is the ability to learn and perform rites 
eventually - 
not immediately. Rites is a measure of a Kuei-jin’s potential at the 
beginning of the game, not her current skill, although at her discretion the 
Storyteller may allow her to have learned one or two very basic rites already, 
especially if doing so would facilitate playing the game. 
Yin records the character’s facility for absorbing and controlling dark, nega- 
tive energies. Yin aids in resisting fire soul, using Yin-aspected Disciplines and 
when dealing with ghosts and other Yin-spirits. Vampires with high Yin ratings 
commonly master Disciplines relating to death and decay. Because they are 
repositories for such dark energies, they often seem eerie and repellent to mortals, 
although some humans with high Yin scores themselves find the Kuei-jin oddly 
attractive. Vampires who have imbalanced themselves with Yin tend to be even 
more extreme, often appearing corpselike or even putrescent. Such undead are 
known as ch’ing shih. 
Kuei-jin have two Yin ratings. The permanent Yin rating measures the 
character’s total control over negative energies, while the temporary Yin rating 
measures how many Chi Traits of Yin energy the character has currently for 
powering Yin Disciplines and the like. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Fire Soul - 
Whenever fire soul threatens to overcome the vampire, she 
resists using her permanent Yin rating. Characters with highYin ratings are simply 
too calm and collected to fall victim to such petty concerns as rage. 
Awakening - 
The Kuei-jin may spend a Trait of Yin to awaken at 
sundown. Once spent, the Kuei-jin is considered “black cycled,” and she need not 
spend Chi to awaken for another 10 days! However, the dark energies animating 
her give her a more corpselike pallor than normal. She is considered one Trait 
down on all Social Challenges with mortals except those involving intimidation, 
and she must describe her pallid visage to those who would notice the change (such 
as close associates or those who normally see her charged by Yang energy, for 
example). She must still spend Chi for Disciplines and other things. 
Ghostsight - 
By spending an appropriate Chi Trait, the Kuei-jin can 
attune himself to his inner Yin, allowing him to view the effects of Yin all around 
him. Doing so has the following game effects: 
First, the character extends his sight beyond the Wall into theYin World, thus 
allowing him to see Yin-spirits such as wraiths and Spectres. To do so, the 
Cathayan’s player must concentrate for one minute and win or tie a Simple Test 
(retested with the Occult Ability). This vision lasts for one hour or until the end 
of the scene, whichever is longer. 
Second, the character may scan objects or living prey (undead and Risen 
count, ghosts don’t) for weaknesses. The player must spend at least three turns 
watching his target (no combat or fast movement), then make a Static Yin 
Challenge against eight Traits. If successful, the next attack the Kuei-jin makes 
(hit or miss) inflicts an extra level of the appropriate type of damage if it lands. 
Once that attack is made, the Kuei-jin must reattune himself to the target to 
receive the bonus again. 
Third, the vampire can study the mystic marks on a target’s aura for signs of 
weakness and decay, thus allowing him to deduce any physical ailments plaguing 
her. Doing so requires a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of the target’s 
Mental Traits, but if successful, it tells the Kuei-jin if the target is injured, any 
diseases she is suffering from or how much blood she’s lost. Note that unless the 
Kuei-jin has at least two levels of the Medicine Ability, he will understand complex 
ailments only in simple terms: a target is “weak,” “feverish” or “wasting away.” 
Finally, the vampire may use Ghostsight to look at broken objects and deduce 
how they once went together by tracing the lines of decay. Doing so requires a win 
or tie on a Simple Test with the Crafts or Repair Ability to function, and it gives 
the vampire a good idea of how to repair the object (if possible). 
Yang is the energy of dynamism, of change and of renewal. Despite the 
positive connotations given to it by many Westerners, it is something of a perverse 
force. Yang gives the Kuei-jin the energy to draw their Second Breath, but it also 
fuels the ravenous hunger that sends many Kuei-j in spiraling into depravity. As the 
Cathayans say, Yang is simply the energy that powers a Kuei-jin’s actions; whether 
those actions are “good” or “bad” is up to the Kuei-jin himself to determine. Yang 
energy is important when resisting fear and connecting with other living things. 
Kuei-jin with high Yang ratings are often very human in appearance, the kind of 
undead who arose to avenge families or hold fast to a love they cannot bear to leave. 
However, they are sometimes all too human in action. The life-force they have is 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


secondhand at best, nothing more than stolen life, and when their pretense of 
humanity fails, it often leads Yang-aspected vampires to great fits of rage 
and destruction. 
Using Yang 
Wave Soul-Those with high Yang ratings are simply too brave - 
too full 
of the fire of creation - 
to bow to such ignoble motives as terror. The permanent 
Yang rating is used to resist wave soul. 
Healing - 
Dead as they are, Kuei-jin may use either type of Chi to heal 
themselves. (See the healing section on p. 180 for details.) However, the Kuei-jin 
may also heal others by preparing an elixir with her own Yang Chi. Each Trait 
invested in the mixture heals one level of lethal damage or two levels of 
bashing damage. 
Awakening- 
Spending a Yang Trait for this purpose causes the character 
to enter a “scarlet cycle.” She appears more human than normal for the duration 
of the night, and she endures no penalty to Social Tests. While not entirely lifelike, 
the vampire displays enough mortal traits (blinking, coughing, cold but passable 
skin) so that only those who are trained to search out the undead will usually ever 
suspect anything is amiss. Of course, the vampire must spend a Chi Trait every 
night to remain in scarlet cycle, which makes such benefits quite costly in the 
long run. 
Lifesight - 
By spending an appropriate Chi Trait, the Kuei-jin can attune 
herself to her inner Yang, allowing her to view the endless tapestry of Yang all 
around her. Doing so has the following game effects: 
First, the character extends her sight beyond the Wall into the Yang World, 
thus allowing her to see Yang-entities such as kami and other natural spirits, as well 
as detect physical beings with abnormally high amounts of Yang energy (such as 
hengeyokai and hsien). To do so, the Cathayan’s player must concentrate for one 
minute and win or tie a Simple Test (retested with the Occult Ability). This vision 
lasts for one hour or until the end of the scene, whichever is longer. 
Second, the character may sense the emotional “flares” that occur when two 
or more beings meet each other, thus often sensing their true feelings about their 
relationship. For example, the Kuei-jin might observe two lovers meeting and see 
that one flares feelings of love and devotion, while the other projects nothing but 
nervousness and guilt over an affair he’s having behind his partner’s back. To use 
this talent, the character must succeed at a Simple Test against each target she 
wishes to scan. If successful, she may ask the target to provide a brief summary of 
his true feelings about the person he just met with. Shen may spend a Willpower 
Trait to dim their reactions and render this power useless against them, although 
they may only do so if they are aware that they’re being watched by another party 
(not necessarily the character). This power is best reserved for mortals alone, since 
using it on shen and other Kuei-jin is considered a serious insult and breach of 
etiquette. However, Kin-jin and other barbarians may be scanned at will. 
Finally, the vampire can use her attunement with life energies to “home in” 
on a particular overriding passion in the surrounding area. The range of this power 
is 20 paces plus one pace per Mental Trait the vampire possesses. The passion 
chosen must be a strong one. Momentary annoyance or casual flirtation is not 
strong enough for this talent to detect, but deep hatreds and true love are certainly 
fair game. The main advantage of this talent is for hunting (searching for lust when 
looking for a mortal who will be easy to seduce, for example), although it also acts 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


as a good general detector for individuals with strong emotional enerm. To use this 
power, the Kuei-jin’s player must first pick a particular emotion. She may then ask 
(out of character) any character she passes if he is currently experiencing the 
emotion she is searching for, and the subject must answer honestly. If used for 
hunting, the player may subtract five minutes from his hunting time for each Trait 
of Yang he possesses (minimum five minutes). 
Traditional Chinese thought divided the soul into two halves: the lower, 
animalistic soul (the Po), and the higher, rational soul (the Hun). While Kuei-jin 
of other cultures know them by different names, for the most part all Hungry Dead 
accept this dichotomy as representative of their condition. 
The Hun reflects a character’s spirituality and sense of duty, her capacity for 
abstract thinking, aesthetic thought and her remaining empathy for humanity. 
Hun is sometimes seen as a sense of conscience, but that description is not quite 
right (at least not in the sense of goodness and “Christian charity” that most 
Westerners attach to that word). Rather, Hun is a measure of a character’s sense 
of honor and devotion to duty - 
whether that duty is the lawful administration 
of the Resplendent Cranes or the wicked ministrations of the Devil-Tigers is 
irrelevant. A Kuei-jin with a high P‘o and low Hun, for example, is little more than 
an animalistic killer, while one with high P o  and strong Hun rating is far more 
refined - 
a demon, but an honorable one nonetheless. Characters with high Hun 
ratings seem very “in control,” and they possess a great deal of spiritual strength in 
the face of adversity. Their rational side is well cultivated, and they seldom feel any 
pull to give in to momentary urges or selfish impulses. Characters with low Hun 
ratings tend to view existence in a very brutish and animalistic way. 
Using Hun 
DemonAhs--eninvokingoneoftheDemonArtDisciplinesoftheP’o, 
the Hun may be used to harness the P’o into a controlled frenzy. After (and only 
after) the Demon Art is activated, the Kuei-jin’s player may make a Static Hun 
Challenge against a difficulty equal to her P o  score. Success enables her to evoke 
the Demon Art while retaining her own Nature. Failure means the P o  takes over 
the body while the Demon Art is used. 
Empathy - 
A Kuei-jin may never have more empathy-related Attribute 
Traits (Empathetic, Compassionate, etc.) than he has Traits of Hun. 
Shadow S U I -  Hun is the Trait used when resisting the takeover of the P’o 
during shadow soul. Characters with high Hun ratings are too disciplined to let the 
animalistic P’o take control on a whim. 
Sharpened Senses - 
This power is identical to the Auspex Discipline’s 
power of Heightened Senses. The Kuei-jin may spy on distant conversations, detect 
invisible foes and otherwise enjoy the same benefits as that Discipline, although 
strong stimuli such as bright lights or sudden loud noises may likewise incapacitate 
the character temporarily. All this power requires is a minute of concentration to 
enact. In particularly chaotic circumstances, the Narrator may rule that a win or 
tie on a Simple Test is required to focus the Kuei-jin’s sharpened senses. This power 
lasts for a scene or until the Kuei-jin shuts off her increased sensitivity willingly. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Spirit Speech - 
A Kuei-jin may make a Static Hun Challenge against a 
difficulty of the local Wall to speak with a spirit, provided she can detect it in the 
first place. 
Tempering the P’o - 
A Kuei-jin who succumbs to shadow soul is not 
entirely at the mercy of the P’o. While her higher side is powerless to stop the 
rampages of the Demon during this time, characters with enough resolve may 
remember the actions of the P’o and even subtly influence its behavior. The Kuei- 
jin’s player must win a Static Hun Challenge against nine Traits to temper the P’o. 
Success does not prevent the shadow soul change, but it allows the Kuei-jin to 
remember the actions that the Demon takes during this time. Furthermore, the 
character may spend a Willpower Trait to modify an action the P’o takes (such as 
maiming a target instead of killing him) or delay one action the P’o wishes to take 
until the next turn, such as hesitating to allow an innocent victim time to escape. 
Finally, a Kuei-jin whose Hun soul stays aware during shadow soul may spend a 
Willpower Trait to speak one lucid sentence (such as yelling “Run, you fool!” at 
the innocent victim from earlier, assuming he didn’t get the point already). 
All Kuei-jin bear the taint of Yomi, an exaggeration of the darkest aspects of 
their own soul that rides their shoulders like a demonic imp, urging them toward 
self-destruction constantly and occasionally (or not so occasionally, depending on 
the strength of the Kuei-j in in question) taking the reins to perpetrate unspeakable 
rampages of cruelty and perversity. The P’o is animalistic but fiendishly clever as 
well, not like the mindless Beast of the Kin-jin, and the lures of the Demon are 
often as subtle as they are wicked. The P’o is the force that turns minor irritation 
into killing fury, but the strength of the Demon is often also the only thing that can 
save the Kuei-jin from certain destruction, a fact the Demon uses to its full 
advantage. 
It is important to remember that the Kuei-jin have studied the Demon for 
millennia, and they do not seek only to contain and suppress it as the Kindred do 
with the Beast. The P’o is as much a part of the character’s soul as anything else, 
maybe not apart to be proud of, but a part nonetheless. It is not some alien presence 
to be destroyed, but the character’s own voice as heard through the winds of Hell. 
As the greatest teachers of the shen teach their students, the P’o must be understood 
and assimilated if enlightenment is to be achieved, and characters who see the 
Demon within only as their enemy are doomed to a narrow existence indeed. The 
P’o does offer its Hun side some potent advantages, but always with a price that 
most Kuei-jin would do well to inspect carefully before they pay, lest they become 
nothing more than pawns to their own depraved urges or worse. 
using P’o 
Berserk Rage - 
The character may attempt to prod his P’o into a berserk 
rage. Doing so is risky at best, but it can sometimes turn the tide of a desperate 
battle. A Static P’o Challenge against a difficulty of the character’s Hun rating + 
3 (max 10) is required. If successful, the character enters fire soul immediately (see 
the systems chapter for the benefits/ drawbacks of fire soul). He also gains access 
to Demon Chi during this time. 
Demon Arts - 
A character cannot possess a higher level of a Demon Art 
than his P’o rating, which translates in the following manner. Characters with 1- 
4 Po Traits are limited to Basic Demon Arts; those with 5-7 P’o Traits can have 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Intermediate Demon Arts; those with 8+ P’o Traits can possess Advanced Demon 
Arts. 
Demon Chi - 
The character may attempt to channel the strength of his 
Demon into his actions, though doing so leaves him vulnerable to falling into 
shadow soul during this time. For each Trait of permanent Po, the character is 
considered to have one Trait of Demon Chi. Demon Chi may be spent in a similar 
manner to the Black WindDemm Art, even if the character doesn’t actually possess 
that Discipline. Each Chi Trait spent in this fashion counts as a temporary level 
of the Black Wind for the turn. (Thus, the character could spend three Demon Chi 
and receive three extra actions or three temporary levels of supernatural strength.) 
To gain access to Demon Chi for a scene, the player must make a Static P o  
Challenge against a difficulty equal to his Hun Virtue + 3. 
Once spent, Demon Chi is gone for the night, although feeding at some 
defiled sites may restore Demon Chi earlier at the Storyteller’s discretion. Upon 
awakening each evening, the character may make a number of Simple Tests equal 
to his permanent P’o rating. Each success indicates a Trait of Demon Chi regained. 
Fangs - 
Unlike the Kin-jin, Cathayans have no natural fangs, but by 
spending a Trait of Demon Chi they may sprout fangs that are, in all respects, 
identical to those of a Western vampire. By spending two Demon Chi Traits, they 
may sprout a hideous fanged maw. The character is two Traits up on all biting 
attacks, and he inflicts aggravated damage with his bite, but the maw cannot be 
hidden. Both such uses of Demon Chi last for one scene. 
Nature Shift - 
The P’o is usually the Virtue used to determine if the 
character enters fire, shadow or wave soul. See the individual descriptions of these 
states for more details. 
Resistance - 
If the Kuei-jin suffers from magical mind control, he may 
attempt to use the savagery of the P’o to break the bond. The player must win a 
Static P’o Challenge against nine Traits. Success means the control is broken, but 
the player must also test for shadow soul immediately. 
Shadow Soul - 
The most feared power of the P’o is to take over the Kuei- 
jin’s body, subsuming the Hun nature to carry out its darkest desires. When the Po 
is dominant, the character’s P’o Archetype replaces the character’s normal nature, 
and the player must roleplay the dominance of his character’s dark side appropri- 
ately. If the player is incapable of doing so, the Storyteller is free to step in and 
dictate the P’o-dominated character’s actions. Shadow soul typically lasts for one 
scene, at which time the Hun may reassert itself, although the Storyteller may 
modify that time according to the nature of the incident that provoked the change 
and the relative strength of the character’s P’o. It is also important to note that 
unless the character uses his Hun to temper the Po, the Hun remembers nothing 
of what happens during the time of the Po’s control. The character must find out 
from other sources what his Demon made him do during this time, and the answers 
often aren’t very pretty. More than one Kuei-j in has gone mad or even spiraled back 
into Yomi after “awakening” to discover slain loved ones or see centuries of 
planning undone in a single moment of darkness. 
(For more on roleplaying shadow soul, see the systems chapter on p. 195.) 
If none of these Archetypes seems appropriate, work with the Storyteller to 
design your own P’o. Wraith: The Oblivion and the Shadow Play- 
Guide have 
a number of suggestions that could easily be adapted for P’o Archetypes. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The Bandit - 
The Bandit sees no use in the Great Cvcle. It ignores the 
mandates of Heaven and Hell, preferring chaos to order, and any servant of order 
makes a fine target. The Bandit can force a test for shadow soul whenever anyone 
orders the Kuei-jin to do anything or tries to put him “in his proper place.” Bandits 
ascendant are out to smash and destroy, less for sheer pleasure like the Demon, but 
to invite chaos and destroy order. Many enjoy committing crime, and it is not 
uncommon to find a Bandit at work in a tong or some other criminal organization. 
The BQtbarian-The 
Barbarian prefers the relative freedom of the West over 
what it sees as the stifling confines of useless, antiquated Eastern formality, and it 
never fails to take any opportunity to compare Cathayan and Cainite ways. A test 
for shadow soul is in order whenever adhering to some traditional practice would 
cause the Kuei-jin pain or other hardship. The Barbarian may also attempt to 
manifest if it encounters Kin-jin. Once in shadow soul, a Barbarian may deal freely 
with Kin-jin, trample on traditional beliefs or even dare to disrespect to the elders. 
The Deceiver -The Deceiver has no use for the truth in any form. It lies for 
the sake of practice, occasionally sprinkling in flattery, followed with wild 
falsehood, all to render the Hun unable to trust himself or move without the advice 
of his Po. The Deceiver seeks to take over whenever an opportunity to lie would 
be more advantageous, usually after the Hun has tried and failed to solve the 
situation through truth. A Deceiver in control merely has a larger field in which 
to spread his lies, often laying a number of unpleasant surprises for the Hun to find. 
The Demon - 
All that the Demon sees exists for its own whim, to devour 
and destroy as it sees fit. There is no other need but its own, no other pleasure but 
its own. Western eyes would see the Demon as a sociopath. The Demon attempts 
to take over when it sees an opportunity to make itself stronger by the destruction 
of another. Demons ascendant can be terrifying. Some are out-and-out destructive, 
seeking to slake their hungers in the most gruesome manner (such as through 
torture or murder - 
serial killers are often sociopathic). Others are more insidious 
and cunning, looking for pleasure in stalking, psychological games or traps laid for 
the Hun. Demons, however, prefer to be their own masters, and even the most 
depraved Demon is disinterested in a deal with the Yama Kings. 
The Fool - 
The Fool is, to put it kindly, simple-minded. It demands 
explanations for even the most self-evident action, and it is incapable of planning 
and executing anything but short-term plans with no complications. A Fool also 
is rarely silent, continually prattling, wanting explanation and generally trying to 
get the Hun to take the easy way out. The Fool can attempt to take over whenever 
the Hun finds itself at a loss for words or in an awkward situation. Once in shadow 
soul, the Fool usually demonstrates why he is called the Fool - 
upsetting careful, 
long-range plans for immediate action, saying exactly the wrong thing, and trying 
to find the easy way out of any situation. 
The Legaliit -The opposite of the Bandit, the Legalist is order to the point 
of rigidity. There is a correct way to do everything, and the Legalist will give the 
Hun no peace about mistakes or “insults” to the divine order ofthings. The Legalist 
threatens takeover if an inferior is disrespectful of the Hun (and the Legalist alone 
knows who’s inferior), or if the Kuei-jin herself is disrespectful. Legalists in shadow 
soul can be unpleasant to deal with, haranguing other Kuei-jin about their bad 
behavior and seeking the power to enact punishment against those so “disrespect- 
ful.” 
The Monkey- Capricious, easily distracted, full of grandiose ideas for very 
little gain - 
that is the Monkey. If the Kuei-jin has an overarching goal for her 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


return to the Middle Kingdom, the Monkey doesn’t care, preferring pleasures and 
novel distractions to serious matters. The Monkey attempts to take over when it 
sees a diversion that would distract the Hun from its business, particularly one that 
the Hun would be interested in normally. A Monkey in shadow soul is exhausting 
to keep up with, running hither and thither, letting anything remotely important 
to the Hun fall into ruin. Many’s the Hun who’s awakened from shadow soul to 
discover himself with a small hoard of trinkets and his plans in shambles. 
The Slave -The 
Slave has no belief in the Kuei-jin, and it seeks constantly 
to place the Kuei-jin under the control of another, because obviously the Kuei-jin 
can barely take care of himself. It questions the Kuei-jin’s judgement continuously, 
forcing him to admit that he has no self-worth and is incapable. Even worse, the 
Slave wishes to serve the Yama Kings, and a Cathayan with a Slave Po risks 
becoming akuma. The Slave attempts to take over whenever the Hun is in the 
presence of someone older, stronger or wiser, or if a plan of the Kuei-jin’s goes 
disastrously wrong. When the Slave achieves shadow soul, it sets about its primary 
goal of finding masters to yoke the Kuei-jin; many times, the Slave uses such times 
to attempt to further contracts with the Yama Kings. 
Chi is the energy that fuels all vampires. Unable to enjoy the pleasures of 
mortal flesh or the comfort of more mundane gratification, only Chi itself offers 
sustenance to Cathayans. Most Kuei-jin must consume blood or flesh to survive, 
although elder vampires are rumored to be able to subsist on other things. It is with 
the Chi contained in blood that a vampire draws on the strengths of the 
undead condition. 
Chi Traits do not have adjectives. Rather, each Trait simply represents a 
quantity of energy. Chi Traits can be represented with cards. When a character 
gains Chi Traits by feeding, take the cards from the victim. When Chi Traits are 
spent, give the cards to a Narrator or Storyteller. 
Your starting ChiTrait total is determined by your Dharma. When you come 
into play for an evening’s game, make a test with a Narrator as you pick up your 
character sheet. If you win, you come into play with all of your Chi Traits, as 
determined by Dharma. If you tie, you have half your Dharma limit of Chi Traits, 
rounded up. If you lose, you come into play with only four Chi Traits. Certain 
Merits, Flaws, Dharma disadvantages or other circumstances may alter your 
number of Chi Traits at the beginning ofplay. Possession of the Herd Background, 
however, allows you to come into play with more Chi Traits, up to your Dharma 
limit (see the appropriate Background descriptions on p. 95 for Herd). 
When you have expended a great deal of Chi, you become hungry. A hungry 
vampire is susceptible to the Demon’s urges and to fire soul due to the ravenous lust 
for sustenance. You are considered hungry if at five or fewer Chi Traits. You may 
be susceptible to fire soul at the sight, smell or taste of blood or other applicable 
sources of nourishment (see “Chi Virtues” on p. 108). If you have two or fewer Chi 
Traits, you are ravenous, and your difficulty to resist fire soul due to hunger goes up 
by one Trait, making it very likely that you enter fire soul at the first opportunity 
to feed. 
Feeding is the only way to replenish Chi. You can take Chi Traits from 
mortals, other vampires or other creatures with Chi energy, such as animals or 
hengeyokai. However, each Chi Trait drained inflicts a level of lethal damage on 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the victim. Up to three Chi Traits may be drained each turn. You can close the 
wound by licking it to seal up traces of your feeding. You may only heal such wounds 
that were made by your fangs, which means that most Cathayans must be careful 
when feeding, since fangs do not come naturally to them as they do to the Kin-jin. 
You can expend Chi Traits for a variety of functions: 
*YoumustspendaChlTraiteachnightatsunset,forsimplesustenance. 
Seethechi 
Virtue descriptions for the effects of each type of Chi when used for animation. 
One Chi Trait heals two health levels of bashing damage or one level of 
lethal damage. You are still limited to your Dharma limits of blood expenditure (so 
most young vampires cannot heal more than one or two health levels of damage 
in a turn). Healing in this fashion requires your concentration and a full turn. It 
cannot be done in the same turn that the character makes an attack. 
Spending one Chi Trait grants an extra Physical Trait for the duration of 
a conflict. You can bid this Trait like any other (“by the blazing power of Yang”), 
and you can count this Trait in ties and overbids. You can spend Chi in this way 
as a reflexive action at any time, not counting as your turn, though you still obey 
the limits of Chi-expenditure according to Dharma level. You can raise your 
Physical Traits up to the limit of your Dharma for one conflict. Any additional 
Traits added with Chi beyond that remain only for the duration of a single challenge. 
Note: You may use this benefit only if you possess a Shinta’ Discipline which 
allows you to improve your Physical Traits (it’s listed in the Discipline descrip- 
tions}, and you may gain only Traits appropriate to the type listed in the shintai. 
If your shintai specifies strength, for example, you cannot bid the Trait gained in 
challenges related to speed or stamina, unless you possess another shintai that 
would allow such usage. 
Three Chi Traits can be spent to heal one level of aggravated damage. This 
damage heals over the day, as the vampire sleeps. Chi Traits spent this way can be 
accumulated. That is, you need not spend the three Traits all at once, or even all 
in the same day. You should note Traits expended in this fashion with marks next 
to your level of aggravated damage. Once you have spent three Chi Traits on the 
injury, it heals the next time the sunsets. You can heal only one level of aggravated 
damage per day in this fashion, though, unless you also spend a Willpower Trait for 
each extra wound healed in the same rest period. 
Many Disciplines require the expenditure of Chi Traits, as listed in their 
individual descriptions. If a particular Discipline costs multiple Chi Traits but your 
Dharma prohibits you from spending all of the blood at once, you must spend the 
blood on successive turns. Spending blood in this fashion is usually reflexive, 
though the Discipline itself may require an action. For instance, activating Black 
Wind is reflexive. You spend a Chi Trait and still get your normal action, plus extra 
actions or other benefits from Black Wind. 
Willpower Traits measure the strength of your character’s resolve and sense 
of self. By exerting your Willpower, you can withstand otherwise untenable 
conditions, renew your commitment to a course of action and empower certain 
difficult Disciplines. 
Willpower Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have perma- 
nent Willpower - 
your normal limit of Willpower Traits - 
and temporary 
Willpower, your expendable Traits. Your Dharma also determines the maximum 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


level to which you can improve your permanent Willpower. When you expend 
temporary Willpower Traits or raise your permanent Willpower, you regain 
temporary Traits at a rate of one per game session (although your Storyteller may 
vary this pace to suit the needs of her game or to simplify bookkeeping). 
Expending a Willpower Trait allows for one of any number of effects. 
Generally, Willpower Traits allow you to keep self-determination and to empower 
extremely difficult or complex actions. Using Willpower is almost always a 
reflexive action, and it does not count as your turn. 
A Willpower Trait can be spent to refresh all of your lost Traits in one 
Attribute category- Physical, Social or Mental. You may do so once per category 
per game session. 
Expenditure of a Willpower Trait allows you to gain aretest when defending 
against a Mental or Social Challenge. Trait loss works as normal for such retests. 
Note that certain Disciplines or powers may override this stipulation. 
Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for which 
you lack an appropriate Ability. Thus, you can make a test even if you would 
normally require a specific Ability that you don’t have (or have used up). 
You can spend a Willpower Trait to try to control yourself briefly while in 
fire, wave or shadow soul. You are able to act normally for one turn when you spend 
Willpower in this fashion, though you otherwise keep all the other stipulations of 
such states - 
ignoring wound penalties and so on. You do not actually regain 
control so much as you fight mightily to direct yourself for a few moments in the 
face of overwhelming rage, terror or inner corruption. Roleplay your actions 
appropriately. 
You can expend a Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to and 
including Incapacitated, for the duration of one full turn. 
Certain Disciplines or powers require the expenditure of Willpower. 
As listed previously under Attributes, you can take Negative Traits to specify 
particular weaknesses inherent to your character. The listings of Negative Traits 
are included with the other Traits on p. 7 1-78. 
When someone guesses your Negative Trait successfully in a challenge, you 
are forced to risk an additional Trait to continue with the challenge. Thus, if you 
enter a Mental Challenge but your opponent guesses one of your Negative Mental 
Traits successfully, you must bid and risk an additional Trait to continue with the 
challenge. If you do not have any more Traits to risk, you lose the 
challenge automatically. 
As optional Traits to flesh out your character, Merits and Flaws allow you to 
specify particular advantages or disadvantages that are not covered by Attributes, 
Abilities or Backgrounds. All Merits and Flaws are organized into specific catego- 
ries, according to their type. To purchase a Merit, you must expend Free Traits 
equal to the cost of the Merit. Conversely, taking a Flaw hinders you with a 
handicap of some sort, but it offers additional Free Traits for character creation. 
You can take up to seven Traits each of Merits and Flaws. Some elder characters 
may have more. Certainly, very old vampires may develop potential capabilities 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


and resources outstripping their younger counterparts, or they may succumb to 
more terrible illnesses of body and mind. 
Normally, you must purchase Merits and Flaws during character creation. 
However, with an appropriate story, you may be able to buy a new Merit (with 
Experience equal to double its value) or overcome a Flaw (again, with Experience 
equal to double its value). 
fqE@OuSW 4- MWTS SyD W
S
 
In the interests of time and space, not all of the Merits and Flaws listed in Lam 
ofthe Night and other books are reprinted here. Rather, what follows is a list of 
which previous Merits and Flaws are and are not appropriate in Laws ofthe East, 
followed by a listing of Merits and Flaws entirely unique to the exotic inhabitants 
of the Middle Kingdom. 
Psychological 
Recommended -Code 
of Honor, Higher Purpose, Intolerance, Nightmares, Prey 
Disallowed - 
Berserker, Dual Nature (buddy, you are a dual nature!) 
Mental 
Recommended - 
C
m
 
Sense, C
W
~
 
J.j& Sleeper, Iron Will., Amnesia 
Disallowed -None 
Awareness 
Recommended - 
Any are fine, though none especially appropriate. 
Disallowed -None 
Aptitudes 
Recommended - 
Natural Linguist 
Disallowed - 
Eat Food (Cathayans automatically have this advantage) 
Supernatural 
Recommended - 
Medium (Y in vampires), Spirit Mentor, Des tiny, Repulsed By 
Garlic (this lore is thought to have originated in China!), Haunted, Dark Fate 
Disallowed - Light-Sensitiwe, Unbondabk (blood bonds have no effect on Kuei- 
jin), True Faith (Dharmareplaces such devout faith, though Kuei-jin can certainly 
still practice religion if they choose) 
Exclusion, Territorial, Vengeance, Driving Goal, Hatred 
Kindred Ties 
Disallowed - 
All, unless the Kuei-jin is infiltrating Kindred society or 
otherwise operating in a Kin-jin centered chronicle. A few (Enemy, Notoriety) may 
also be appropriate, but be careful. 
Mortal Society 
Recommended- Nightclub, Hunted (by Shih or Strike Force Zero especially) 
Disallowed - 
None 
Physical 
Recommended - 
Huge Size, Allergic, Disfigured, Child, Deformity, Monstrous 
Disallowed - 
Baby Face (automatic for Yang vampires, impossible for Yin), 
Misplaced Heart, Efficient Digestion, Sekctiwe Digestion, Thin-Blooded 
ItUW-JlY rirs 
Akuma (3 Trait Flaw) 
Whether because you have been revealed to be a servant of one of the Yama 
Kings, or because you have violated Kuei-jin tradition once too often, you have 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


been branded duma, a devil-infested exile. Any Kuei-jin may hunt you down and 
destroy you without fear of retribution, and you are a true outcast, beneath 
consideration of the laws and practices of Cathayan society (even the Fivefold 
Way). Due to the immense size of the Middle Kingdom, akuma can occasionally 
travel ahead of their reputation for quite some time, or maybe even set up a new 
identity. It is unlikely, however, that you will have an easy unlife in any case, as your 
secret could be revealed at any moment. If and only if you actually do serve one of 
the Yama Kings, you may purchase the Demon Mentor Merit (5 Traits). Your 
demonic master visits you often in nightmares with orders and advice, and while 
he may gift you with a magic talisman from time to time, most demons are 
notoriously intolerant of failure. In any event, the Narrator is responsible for 
playing the Yama King. See p. 21 1 for more on “true” akuma. 
S W r S p L  
Different Body (1 Trait Flaw) 
Most Kuei-jin return in their original bodies, even if they have to scrape them 
from the Ocean floor or piece them together from blackened fragments, but for 
some reason, you came back in another person’s body. Perhaps it’s karmic 
retribution, or maybe Heaven is just having a joke at your expense, but this 
condition is a source of great shame and embarrassment to most Kuei-jin, not to 
mention constant minor annoyances. Uncomfortable as you are with this new 
frame, you shift and fidget constantly, and you even exhibit some of the body’s old 
mannerisms or physical tics from time to time. Most Kuei-jin with this Flaw will 
go to great lengths to “establish” their identity with their clothing or other external 
modifications. Of course, if the body’s original spirit is still around, things can get 
interesting indeed.. . . 
s~rqwpruF= 
Defiled (6 Trait Flaw) 
You have ingested corrupt or infected Chi at some point, and this inauspicious 
action will haunt you until your - 
likely untimely - 
death. Defiled vampires are 
in constant pain from the burning, boiling Chi within them, and they suffer terrible 
nightmares as well (that Flaw is included in the cost of this one). Thus, their wound 
penalties are treated as one level less than they are actually suffering unless they 
are reduced below Incapacitated, since defiled vampires are used to constant 
suffering. However, the benefits end there. Any time the Kuei-jin’s player fails a 
challenge directly involving Chi or Willpower, he must make a Simple Test 
immediately. On a win or a tie, nothing happens. On a failure, the character gains 
a “Defiled Trait,” which should be recorded by the Narrator. Once the character 
gains enough Defiled Traits to equal his permanent Hun rating, he vomits up three 
Chi Traits and loses a permanent health level as the defiled Chi bums away his 
insides. If he does not have enough ChiTraits, substitute Willpower Traits instead. 
Few Kuei-j in with this Flaw live very long unlives, and while some bodhisattvas are 
said to know a cure, no one has ever proven one to exist. Most defiled Kuei-jin are 
labeled akuma. This Flaw is most common to those Cathayans who feed near 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but any defiled site can give off defiled Chi. 
Vengeful Ancestors (4 Trait Flaw) 
Your very existence is a mark of shame on your family honor, and your ancestor 
spirits are not content to let your conscience be the only reminder of that sad fact. 
Indeed, one or more of them often appear to you and plague you with visions of your 
miserable existence and their deep sorrow at what you have become. Some of them 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


even try to ruin your feeding habits by scaring off prey or committing other 
annoying acts. By behaving piously and otherwise appeasing their wishes, you may 
satisfy them temporarily, but they will always return until this Flaw is bought off. 
Those Kuei-jin wise in the ways of spirit manipulation beware: Those who try to 
deal forcefully or disrespectfully with their own ancestors are severely punished by 
the spirit worlds for such a grave breach of etiquette. Optionally, you may take this 
Flaw in the form of a former lover or other soul dear to you who disapproves of your 
standing as one of the Hungry Dead. 
fsrcnologjcsl 
Superstitious (1 or 3 Trait Flaw) 
Many legends Westerners commonly associate with vampires actually origi- 
nated in the East, and you have inherited a potent belief in more than a few of them. 
Perhaps the sifu who taught you had a twisted sense of humor, or maybe you clashed 
with a mortal who had the power to actually enforce these old chestnuts, but 
whatever it is, you believe absolutely in the validity of common mortal supersti- 
tions. The number of traditions you are bound by and the commonality of their 
Occurrence determines the value of this Flaw. For example, vampires who recoil 
from mirrors or are unable to enter holy sites suffer from a one-Trait Flaw, while 
those who compulsively count grains of rice thrown in their path or recoil from 
human saliva suffer from a three-Trait Flaw. 
-D= 
Illiterate (3 Trait Flaw) 
You cannot read or write, no matter how many levels of the Linguistics Ability 
you might possess. Furthermore, you may not learn to read until this Flaw has been 
bought off. 
ciiumxw soylm 
Note: With rare Storyteller exceptions, these Traits are only available to 
Western characters playing in Middle Kingdom games, and they are intended to 
act as flavor for the chronicle, not to allow every Western character to pick up some 
extra Negative Traits just by hopping a plane to Hong Kong for the weekend. 
Kanbujian (4 Trait Flaw) 
This Flaw is somewhat deceptive, since kanbujian (“unable to see,” derived 
from their Dharmic blindness) are not actually Westerners, but rather Kuei-jin 
who have arisen outside of the Middle Kingdom, typically amidst the Chinatowns 
and Little Indias of the world. This Flaw is considered a Cathayan Society Flaw 
because of the disadvantages they suffer there. Kanbujian are extremelyrare, to say 
the least, and most never surpass the chih-mi stage before being destroyed by the 
area’s supernatural population, but those that do survive present an interesting 
puzzle to Kin-jin and Kuei-jin alike. Players seeking to play kanbujian characters 
should remember that their characters must be of pure (or very nearly so) Asian 
lineage, no matter where they hail from, and that they will likely be treated as 
pariahs by both East and West if they are ever discovered. However, those looking 
for a challenge or who seek to play among a group of unsuspecting Westerners may 
find that kanbujian are right up their alley, provided they secure Storyteller 
permission first, of course. Kanbujian characters are created exactly the same as 
regular Kuei-jin, with a few important exceptions: 
Kanbujian have no Dharma; they start with Humanity, much as Kin-jin do. 
(See Laws ofthe Night for details.) Only with the training of a Kuei-jin mentor 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


can kunbujian hope to begin their Dharmic journey, although if they manage to 
begin such training, they advance normally. 
Kanbujian cannot learn any complex Disciplines: Tapestry, Yin or Yang 
Pram, Chi’iu Muh or any others the Storyteller deems require too much knowledge 
of traditional Kuei-jin ways. Of course, the kanbujian still cannot learn Kin-jin 
Disciplines, no matter who takes them in. Kanbujian pay for Disciplines as do 
regular Kuei-jin, provided they have a Kuei-jin mentor to teach them. 
Kanbujian cannot take Mentor, Rites or other Backgrounds specific to 
Cathayan society during character creation. They may be learned at normal cost 
later on, provided again that a suitable teacher can be found. 
Kanbujian know nothing of Kuei-jin society, and they are typically treated 
as nonpersons by other Kuei-jin, meaning they have no standing in court. They 
must often endure long hours of instruction and training before they can hope to 
be accepted into one. 
GaijidGweilo (6 Trait Fla 
By taking this Flaw, you are marked as thoroughly Western by everyone you 
meet. Whether it’s your dress, manners, accent, looks or some other factor, you are 
perceived as very unappealing by the native population, and they tend to make 
their dealings with you as quick and unpleasant as possible. At best, you typically 
get polite but curt responses and inflexible prices. At worst, you are picked as easy 
prey by criminals and otherwise taken advantage of whenever the natives feel they 
can get away with it. Not that strangers will attack you on the street at every turn, 
but you are unwelcome, and the native population will do its best to make sure you 
know it. You have a two-Trait penalty on any non-supernatural Social Challenges 
with mortal natives of the area, it costs roughly twice as much to live in the area 
as it would for a native, and all uses of Influence that are locally based take twice 
as much time as normal. Otherwise, the real nuances of this Flaw are largely up to 
the Storyteller to enforce, but they should be a constant irritation at the least. Note 
that this Flaw is not based on your actual personality in any way, but on the native 
perception of foreigners. You may be a kind and gentle soul, but the fact of your 
origin has marked you as unwanted from the beginning. 
Taking this Trait as a Merit means that you have undertaken the painstaking 
process of acclimating yourself to the native accents, points of etiquette and other 
fine cultural nuances that separate those merely familiar with a culture to those 
who truly live in it. What’s more, you have mastered them to a degree where you 
have earned the acceptance of the natives and are treated as an honored equal in 
most situations. While a great deal of stigma is attached to foreigners, an equally 
great sum of respect is accorded to those foreigners who take the time to learn the 
native ways and honor them. You are one Trait up on non-supernatural Social 
Challenges with natives, your lifestyle costs a normal amount (perhaps even a little 
less), and Influence use takes the standard time. Furthermore, in a group of 
Westerners you are probably the only character who would be allowed to exist in 
an Eastern court, much less be taken seriously when addressing one. If anyone has 
achance at getting the other Westerners forgiven for their barbaric mistakes before 
they’re extinguished, you’re the one. Otherwise, it’s up to the Storyteller and other 
characters to fill in the details of how well you’re treated, but it should be quite 
different from Westerners without this Merit (much less the Flaw). Naturally, you 
must keep up on your manners if you wish to retain this Merit. Doing so typically 
means possessing several Etiquette and Linguistics Traits, though not always - 
and 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the Storyteller may revoke it if he finds you have been acting in an overly 
Westernized manner. 
Note:Not every Western character must take this Merit/Flaw. Those without 
either are assumed to fit in adequately, not so well that they attract a great deal of 
respect but not so poorly they are lumped in with the great mass of boorish 
Westerners. Characters of Asian descent but Western upbringing, or natives who 
have been “Westernized” and then returned, may take this Flaw with Storyteller 
permission, but even so, it is only worth half as much to them. (They cannot take 
the Merit, since they are assumed to fit in well enough unless otherwise specified.) 
Some enlightened individuals may go from having the Flaw to possessing the Merit 
over time. The Pilot character from Shogun is a perfect example of a foreigner who 
began as anonperson but wound up learning the native ways and eaming their respect. 
Court Appointment (2 Trait Merit) 
A rare specimen indeed, not only have you been recognized as a full person 
by a particular court of the Kuei-jin, but unlike other Kin-jin, you can expect to be 
treated as an insider by the local undead, even if their fairness and respect is 
sometimes delivered a bit coolly. As far as the court is concerned, you are a true 
member, and you may enjoy the full measure of its justice and protection from any 
who would attempt to harm you. You may even have a voice in court affairs, albeit 
usually a rather small one. 
Naturally, the Cathayans do not extend such permission lightly. Simply 
deciding to drop by the area for a spell is not enough justification for this Merit. 
Rather, a court appointment is typically granted in exchange for some duties or 
other benefits you agree to provide the court, and the court is well within its power 
to renounce its recognition if you prove deceitful or otherwise unwilling to fulfill 
your obligations. Bear in mind as well that one court’s protection may not save you 
from the wrath of another court, nor necessarily insulate you from the intrigues of 
your “home” court. Most Kuei-jin would have no qualms about sacrificing a 
foreigner if it meant saving the court as a whole. Likewise, other Kin-jin will almost 
certainly consider appointment to such a post high treason, even if you are not 
actually betraying the secrets of other Western undead, and they will take steps to 
remove such a dangerous informant from the presence of the Cathayans. Court 
appointees therefore walk a dangerous line between two cultures, but they stand 
to gain much in the shadows if they are strong enough. 
This Merit differs from the Merit: Gaijin/ Gweilo in that the former concerns 
Kuei-jin politics alone, while the second addresses mostly mortal society. You do 
not need to purchase the Merit: Gaijin/ Gweilo to purchase this Merit, though it 
would certainly help. However, it is extremely unlikely that you can possess this 
Merit ifyou have purchased the Flaw: Gaijin/ Gweilo; the court would have tostand 
to gain something extrmdinary to justify putting up with such an obnoxious 
foreign devil! 
Note: Cainites without this Merit are not necessarily killed on sight, but they 
are considered to have no voice in court and no recourse in the eyes of Kuei-jin 
justice. They exist even more at the whim of the mandarins than most. Unrecog- 
nized Kin-jin also tend to make excellent scapegoats/ target-practice for a court 
when things go wrong, so while they may take tea with whoever will have them, 
such Kin-jin had best step lightly indeed and keep one eye on the exit at all times. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Unlike the fractious lives of the Westerners and their paranoid coteries, the 
Kuei-jin are bound together on many levels by powerful ties of loyalty. Perhaps 
none are so binding, however, as those which hold a Kuei-jin wu together, a bond 
which is known as w n x i  by the Kuei-jin. It is the result of a Reciprocity spell cast 
on the wu by the elders of the court when the wu is recognized. In game terms, the 
guunxi acts exactly like a Sabbat Vaulderie score, cementing the bonds of the wu 
to something mystic and nearly unbreakable. A character arrives at his guanxi 
rating with each of his wu-mates by means of the following formula: 5 + (wu-mate’s 
Charisma-related Social Traits) - (your character’s P‘o or Yin score, whichever is 
higher). The final score is considered the character’s guanxi rating toward that 
particular Kuei-jin. Note that agwnxi rating can and likely will change over time. 
Characters who acquire more Yin or P’o Traits start becoming too callous or self- 
centered to feel a strong bond, while a character who blossoms into a charismatic 
leader over time attracts more favorable attention from her fellow wu members. 
Note, however, that unless their bond is somehow broken, even characters with 
little or nogumxi rating are still bound to all their wu brethren. They simply have 
much less trouble than the others might about acting against their fellows. Only 
if the bond is specifically dissolved do all the emotional attachments and feelings 
of loyalty disappear. 
For those unfamiliar with the Vaulderie system, more information can be 
found in the Sabbat section on p. 224-225 in Laws ofthe Night. A brief summary 
of relevant points is as follows, however. The guanxi is a bond as strong as any blood 
bond of the Kin-jin, and it carries all the relevant emotional and intellectual 
weight. In effect, Kueiejin view those vampires that they share aguanxi with as old, 
true friends, and they should act accordingly around them. These are not simply 
good buddies or fellow soldiers. They are the ones acharacter turn to when he needs 
help the most, no matter what their Dharma or direction might be. To be sure, 
characters who share gwanxi may still argue, think ill of each other and even spar 
on occasion, but they stand as one against any outside threat or coercive force, no 
matter what. In order to actually plot against someone for whom the character has 
aguunxi rating of 3 ot higher, the player must spend one Willpower Trait. In order 
to plot against someone for whom the character has aguanxi rating of 6 or over, the 
player must spend two Willpower Traits. It is one thing to vent one’s frustrations 
about how pig-headed or obnoxious a wu member may be; it’s quite another to plot 
to disgrace or assault someone that the character knows at heart to be a close and 
trusted friend. 
To attempt the destruction of someone for whom the character has a guanxi 
rating at all, the player must bum two Willpower. Without the burned Willpower, 
the character finds herself realizing the person she hates is loyal to the wu and 
therefore worthy of respect. Characters with aguanxi rating of 6 or over must bum 
a Willpower Trait e v q  turn they wish to assault their wu member, so strong is their 
bond of friendship. In other words, while the characters may even come to blows 
under harsh circumstances, it is nigh impossible in the Kuei-jin’s mind to find 
circumstances that justify actually destroying a wu member. Even if they discover 
the unthinkable - 
that a wu member has betrayed them - 
most Kuei-jin still 
cannot bring themselves to kill their former friend, overwhelmed as they are by 
memories of better days and moments of emotional solidarity with the traitor. Such 
wrenching scenes should be moments of impassioned high drama if there ever were 
any. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Unlike the Sabbat, however, who actively frown on the destruction of a 
Vaulderie, Kuei-jin do not automatically distrust those who choose to leave a wu 
(though habitual deserters are often labeled heimin and regarded with great 
suspicion). While most Kuei-jin treasure their wu as a prime source of friendship 
and support in their unlives, they all agree that those who do not wish to be part 
of such a group do both sides a favor by removing themselves from it. All that is 
required to remove one or more wu members from their guanxi is to petition the 
court to lift the Reciprocity spell in question. It is within the power of the court to 
question and even veto such a request, although the latter is seldom the case unless 
the court truly suspects foul play. It is also rumored that the Yama Kings can free 
one of the bonds of guanxi, though the whispers say that one must become akuma 
to be granted this “privilege.” If the request is approved, though, theguanxi ratings 
in question are dissolved and the character is free to choose his own path. However, 
such feelings do not fade so quickly, and players whose characters leave the bonds 
of guanxi are strongly encouraged to roleplay the fact that while they are no longer 
bound to their former wu-mates mystically, they typically still harbor some strong 
feelings for them, good or bad. 
Overall, it is not unusual to find a wu composed of individuals with vastly 
differing Dharmas, directions and Natures who fight with each other like cats in 
a sack on their own time, but who band together with frightening efficiency in the 
field. Such are the bonds that hold Kuei-jin society together. Without the unity of 
the wucontributing to the stability ofthe whole, the Cathayans claim, their society 
would be as fractious and squabbling as that of the petty Kin-jin. 
As sentient beings, we collate the information that is presented to us in our 
daily lives and hopefully become better people for our experiences. During our life, 
we learn from the mistakes of yesterday and prepare for the challenges of tomorrow. 
Experience in Laws of the East is represented by giving each character one 
to three ExperienceTraits at the end of each session. The number ofTraits awarded 
is based on how well a character performed during the course of the story and how 
active a player was in the game. The Narrator decides how many Traits each player 
receives on completion of the session. All players receive a standard one Trait. 
Exceptional roleplayers, those who played an exceptionally memorable part, 
should receive two. Three Traits should be awarded to those characters who 
performed acts of incredible insight and courage, making the game truly memo- 
rable for everyone involved. On a normal night, each player will receive one 
Experience Trait. 
If you are a Narrator, you should be consistent and fair in awarding Experi- 
ence. Do it in the open, and be prepared to explain the rationale for your decisions 
in accordance with the rules. If the players disagree, hear them out and make sure 
you know the whole story, then award Experience to those who have earned it. 
Be careful, as awarding too many Experience Traits can make characters too 
powerful too quickly and give players lax attitudes toward working for their goals. 
However, awarding too few disheartens the players and damages their sense of 
achievement. 
Awarding Experience Traits, therefore, requires a delicate balance between 
satisfying players and maintaining the integrity of the game. If you follow the 
guidelines listed here, you probably won’t get into too much trouble. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Automatic - 
Each character receives one Experience Trait Der game. 
-
-
 
representing the acquisition of common, everyday knowledge. 
Roleplaying-Narrators 
should encourage roleplaying. The best way to do 
so is to reward it tangibly with Experience. 
Leadership- You should award one Trait to each of those few players who 
had starring parts in a story. Someone who got involved, and propelled the plot by 
her efforts, deserves a third Trait. It should be noted that if more than one of the 
players were integral to the progression of the story, each of the players who showed 
such leadership should be awarded a Trait. 
wwq ~*HUHIcL- 
Experience Traits may be spent to purchase new Abilities, Traits and 
Disciplines, improving a character and giving the player a sense of satisfaction as 
he watches his character grow more potent. The following chart lists the costs for 
improving Traits, Abilities and Disciplines. 
st have earned the inc 
tadow soul learned the righilesson5 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Always interested in things Asian and looking for a new troupe to join, Jim 
decides to enter a local game of Laws of the East. After checking with Evan, the 
Storyteller, he decides he wishes to play one of the Kuei-jin. Jim puts on an 
inspirational CD while the two of them take a copy of the rulebook and sit down 
to create a character. 
STEP ONE: &WcrW 
Jim begins by looking for a concept, a basic idea around which he can build 
his character. Knowing that Kuei-jin frequently return to life to settle old scores, 
Jim thinks for a while before coming up with an idea. He imagines a simple laborer 
and devoted family man who was murdered by a vicious tong for failing to pay 
protection money, and who was forced to watch his children be murdered before 
his own death came. Now his character seeks to punish his killers and defend any 
helpless children he finds. Such a powerful and wrenching motive could easily 
inspire a soul to return from Yomi, and Evan approves the idea. Looking further 
into the concept, Jim settles on Yang for his character’s Chi balance (he came back 
because of his deep love of life), as well as choosing the eastern direction (also a 
natural choice for a character devoted to protecting mortals). Weighing several 
possibilities, Jim settles on the Dance of the Thrashing Dragon Dharma for his 
character. Seeing Evan’s curious look, Jim explains that while the hedonistic 
tendencies of the other Laughing Rainbows disturb his character, their deep 
connection to the pulse of life is more important to him than anything else. 
Thinking about how he wishes to play the character, Jim selects a Trickster 
Demeanor and a Caregiver Nature. While fun-loving and accessible around 
children, his character is actually quite nurturing and caring at heart. To balance 
this concept, Jim selects the Fool as his P’o Archetype. His Demon is forever trying 
mock his gentle ways and exaggerate the simple goodness ofhis nature into failure. 
For the last part, Jim consults a name book and selects a good Chinese name for his 
character - 
Jo-Loung. Jim is ready to move on to the next step. 
smrio: 
Jim now has to prioritize Jo-Loung’s Attribute categories, to determine his 
basic strengths and weaknesses. He takes Physical as Jo-Loung’s primary Trait 
category, Social as his secondary, and Mental as his tertiary. Jim explains that Jo- 
Loung was a construction worker by day, building the high rises of Hong Kong 
(Physical), and that he has always had a good sense of humor and related well to 
people (Social), but that sometimes his wit runs ahead of his smarts (Mental). Now 
Jim must choose individual Traits for each category, beginning with seven Physical 
Traits. He picks Nimble, Robust, Wiry, Quick, Robust, Enduring and Steady. That 
selection reflects Jo-Loung’s construction background and conjures an image of a 
sturdy worker who’s still pretty quick on his feet when he has to be - 
not a bad 
thing when you’re 70 stories up! Next is Social, with five Traits, and Jim chooses 
the Traits Charismatic, Empathetic, Witty, Persuasive and Empathetic, demonstrat- 
ing Jo-Loung’s strong sense of humor and his easygoing appeal to others, as well as 
his natural respect for the feelings of others. Finally comes Mental, with only three 
Traits. Jim selects Clever, Creative and Wily - 
Jo-Loung is pretty sharp when it 
comes to a con or a story, but a bit out of his league when it comes to book-learning 
and perception skills. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Now Jim has to choose Jo-Loung’s Abilities. He decides that hanging around 
with the rough-and-tumble lot of construction workers rubbed off on Jo-Loung a 
bit during his life, and he selects the Brawl, Dodge and Athletics Abilities. These 
skills should prove helpful along the Road Back as well. However, he wants to make 
sure that he details Jo-Loung’s sensitive side as well. Jim picks a level of Empathy 
and Medicine, reflecting the care the vampire has taken to learn to mend as well as 
injure. There are some other Abilities Jim would like Jo-Loung to have, but that’s 
all the levels he gets for now, so Jim makes a note to return to this section during 
the Free Trait stage and continues. 
Disciplines come next; Jim decides that rather than focusing his powers in one 
particular area, Jo-Loung has learned a wide variety of powers from his Thrashing 
Dragon teachers. With only three levels of Disciplines to use (and at least one of 
which must be a Demon Art), Jim examines the choices carefully before selecting 
one level of the Flesh Shintai, one level of the Yang Prana Discipline, and for his 
Demon Art he chooses a level of Black Wind. Jim rationalizes the first two choices 
as natural extensions ofhis character’s love of and mastery over the living, dynamic 
form, while the Black Wind is a reminder of the sometimes grim nature of Jo- 
bung’s Road Back. Evan looks the choices over and approves them, liking what 
he’s seeing develop before him. 
Jo-Loung’s has five levels of Backgrounds to spend. Jim selects more mundane 
ones first, taking Contacts x 2 (local street urchins who keep him informed) and a 
level of AUies (a dedicated child services worker who knows the nature of his quest 
and who often cuts through red tape on his behalf). Looking to add a more exotic 
twist to his character than the “average Joe” image that started coming across, Jim 
spends the last two levels on the Horoscope Background. Jo-Loung may think his 
quest is humble enough, but certaincelestial powers have taken notice ofhis efforts 
so far, for better or worse. Such a mysterious thread is bound to make for some 
interesting stories later on. Finally, Jim must assign Jo-Loung’s Chi Virtues (he 
begins with one Trait in each type automatically). He assigns three Traits to Yang 
and one to Yin, giving him permanent ratings of four Yang Traits and two Yin 
Traits. Once play begins, he will have to be careful if he wishes to avoid 
imbalancing himself with Chi energies, but otherwise, the choice makes perfect 
sense for the lie-driven Jo-bung. Jim is now finished with this stage of character creation. 
Jim must now record Jo-Loung’s starting Soul Virtues, Willpower, Dharma 
and beginning Chi Traits. He begins with the Soul Virtues. All Kuei-jin begin play 
with one Trait of Hun and three P’o Traits, so he indicates these on his sheet. All 
Kuei-jinalso beginwith three WillpowerTraits andone DharmaTrait, sohewrites 
these down dutifully as well. As for his beginning Chi, Jo-Loung starts with a 
number of temporary Chi traits equal to his ratings in each Chi Virtue - 
in his 
case, that is four Yang Traits and two Yin Traits. Not bad, but not excellent either. 
Jim also records the effects of his Dharma Strength and Dharma Weakness on his 
sheet at this time. The ability to restore Yang will no doubt prove helpful, but Jim 
will have to work with Evan to help figure out his beginning vice, since none spring 
to mind for someone like Jo-Loung. He makes a note to record one before play 
begins and then moves on to the next part of this stage. 
Jim now has the option to choose Flaws and Negative Traits for his character. 
Looking over the Negative Traits, he gains an extra Trait by taking Gullible. Jo- 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Loung is a sucker for a hard-luck story, and he will have to work hard to overcome 
this weakness if he doesn’t want to get walked all over by the other Kuei-jin. Jim 
then takes the Flaw: Hatred (Child Abusers), worth threeTraits. Evan pauses at this 
point, asking Jim to justify a Flaw that might not be encountered often. Jim 
explains that Jo-Loung has come to realize just how poorly many children in the 
Middle Kingdom are treated since his Second Breath, and as such, he has 
developed a seething hatred of adults who mistreat children. The Flaw is detrimen- 
tal because, while such individuals typically deserve some justice, Jo-Loung bears 
such a strong animosity that it can get in the way of his reason. It may even threaten 
his Dharma as he indulges in terrible punishments against the offenders he catches. 
Evan feels the threat posed by the Flaw is being properly approached and approves 
it. Finally, Jim selects the Flaw: Phobia (Chustrophobia), worth two Traits. While 
many Kuei-jin are at least mildly claustrophobic due to their time in the grave, Jo- 
Loung was murdered and left in a small closet with the bodies of his children. 
Entering any such confined area forces him to resist wave soul as he remembers the 
staring eyes of his dead sons. 
After taking one more look, Jim is satisfied by his choice of Flaws and moves 
on. The combination of Negative Traits and Flaws has now given him six extra 
Traits to spend on top of the five Free Traits he normally receives, for a grand total 
of 11 Traits. Right away Jim goes back to the Abilitiessection and purchases a level 
each of Streetwise, lntimkfatim and Brawl, rounding out his rough edges a bit and 
making him more of a formidable fighter as well. Next Jim spends four Traits to buy 
an extra Discipline, selecting to take a second level of Yang Pram, connecting Jo- 
Loung deeply to the life-force within himself. Jim then spends a Trait each to 
purchase the Traits Friendly, Determined, Tenacious and Expressive - 
these extra 
touches add some depth to his personality in play, as well as bolster a few areas of 
his character that he wasn’t able to cover completely before. Since he hasn’t met 
the other players of his w yet, Jim makes a note to record his W n x i  ratings toward 
them as soon as he finally meets them. Jim looks his sheet over, making sure he’s 
got what he wants, then hands it to even for inspection. After making sure all the 
numbers add up, Evan approves it, and there’s only one more stage to go. 
S w  tfvt: S P ~ C O F ~ F E  
All the game mechanics, Traits, powers and skills are now laid out. Jim has 
developed a much better image of Jo-Loung than when he first started, but these 
are still some things not covered, things that can’t be captured by rules and 
character sheets; specifically, the details that make Jo-Loung live and breathe to 
the other players. Jim has to think about ways to convey his character’s personality 
to the other players, to create a host of little identifying quirks that come with 
roleplaying him. Does Jo-Loung still wear the stained work clothes of his mortal 
days, or has the Road Back garbed him in more traditional attire? Is he usually gruff, 
happy, pleasant or simply indifferent? Does he have a certain smile that comes 
through when he’s thinking of a prank, or a habit of snorting instead of laughing? 
Does he tend to talk with his hands and otherwise exhibit extra levels of nervous 
energy, or does he sit more passively than his Yang tendencies would indicate? 
There are countless subtleties that can be added to make a character seem more 
real, and which make for an entertaining and memorable personality for everyone 
in agame to interact with. More character history also can’t hurt - 
Jim has already 
gone beyond a stereotypical Thrashing Dragon hedonist to create an intriguing 
past, but more detail is still possible. Has he actually avenged his children’s murders 
yet, or is he still searching for the parties responsible? Did his sifu approve of his 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


more mundane interests, or are they now bitterly parted? How does his wu look on 
his habit of protecting children? Does he have anyone particularly close to him 
now, or are his “adopted” children his only real friends? What would he do if he saw 
another Kuei-jin feeding from a child? Or for that matter, what would he do to 
himself if he awoke from shadow soul to find a drained child’s body next to him? 
Exploring all of these questions and more will help Jim further define Jo-bung and 
his vampiric existence, but for now, Jim is satisfied with the progress he’s made, and 
he knows that a character is only fully realized once play begins. After he and Evan 
work out the details of his introduction at the next game session, Jim’s all ready to 
begin, and Jo-Loung will stride by the sides of his fellow wu members into the 
mysteries of the Middle Kingdom. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


eir return from death, 
and potent supernatu 
they believe come fro 
heir unique dual soul. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


prepare this devastating move, they spare 
ental Traits and 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


wer lasts. This power 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


with this art has 
nother use of this 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


beyond lash violent 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


called up such a mighty tempest. 
exercises to enact. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


minant, the animus o 
may hide its influence by ca 
ess cloud.) The Yang a 
on all Social Ch 
ng one aggravat 
mental faculties 
Bruised health le 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


reshape it into anything she desires, essentially cloaking herself in an illusion. 
nnot pierce the veil without beating 
This illusion lasts for one scene or 
gainst the level of the local 
oreal (although he can 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


e may attempt to influence other Yin-s 
ilities such as Subterfuge 
Y in, as the vampire is no 
summoned Yin ene 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


s) to break. Yin firearms and other complex 
individual Yin bullets may. 
e added onto the B 
ost for both of them 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


aura of course but she 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


- 
Each level d 
een scenes up to one- 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


characteristics for their Demon Shintai forms, but his word is final as to what may 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


raits up on all actio 
rds of Hell on som 
t arouse that notice. 
Trait of Ym or Demon Ch 
of the Yomi Soul - 
By 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


up on any challenges to cross into, open portals to and otherwise interact with the 
dragon nest. This power can be undone with 
the Tupestry Discipline and the completion 
. Otherwise, the effects can only be removed 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


aling times as he sees 
his target and spend 
mes as fluid as b 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


of the Middle Kingdom. A vampire may drain the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Five Poisan Cloud - 
Focusing 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


uctors must imme 
onlookers are in for a freak show of 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ical Trait the vampire possesses. Obviously, 
at range with this power, although the limbs 
As with Long-Neck, the 
ched body part. Ahand 
sesses some mann 
o detach themselves 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ree-foot diameter 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


to smaller pieces under her mental control. 
in the form of a single minor attack, which 
aura around him 
delivers an extra 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ending a Chi Trait and a minute in concentration, 
arring personality sides, giving one control of the 
about in the Mirror Lands. The Kuei-jin then 
in tandem at no 
tall times. Each 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


requires a Static Mental 
n to be cured. The 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


dow soul immediate1 
as Shih hunters) ma 
basic functions. 
their dual soul n 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Kuei-iin with the patience and self-control to master more than the basics of this 
una Disciplines, students of this art must 
g katas and other exercises constantly if they 
may not use the Disciplines of 
id is active. The aura of a vampire 
Death Kata - 
By forcin 
ck routine, the Ku 
and action into an 
to inhale while concentra 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


uires two Willpower Traits, two t 
Challenge (against five Trai 
The vampire does no 
tions or any other situatio 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


influence to take vengeance on the Running Monkeys impudent enough to play 
sts for one scene. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


To indicate that 
using the target to feel as 
cted mandarins, this 
re some akuma and o 
To use this power, the 
allenges of his Hun ve 
igher). If the victim wins th 
ediatelv. However, the target 
time to one month 
I- 
@ 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


over into the spirit 
vampire may petition 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


uei-]in enacting 
wer Traits to retest the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


means that a character c 
spent searching out the object 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


an integral part of any ga 
lywhenconfrontationdoes o 
aracters can and 
essary to govern those 
two or more players come into conflicts that cannot 
tern detailed in this chapter allows 
tly and quickly. This sort of face-off is called 
imple system of conflict resolution. In most 
to be present when a challenge is played. 
have to end when a challenge begins. In fact, 
d in this chapter is part of the basic rules for the 
ough alterations would need to be made to 
of Laws of the East with other games in the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


y mutual agre 
1 
11 
the setting chapter for more detail 
Laws of the Night, Oblivion and 
llenges is also included in 
W Y 9  
represented by a Narrator. 
;YFWBiD 
A challenge begins with a player “ 
ODDonent’s Tra 
would suffer a w 
or dice are used. The two players face off against one another 
Mistakes can make people reluctant to put their full trust ba 
made them slip; therefore, you’re not at full strength whe 
The test works like the moment in poker when the car 
the winner is declared. The test produces one of two possib 
one player is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the nu 
number of Traits you’ve lost 
reduces the maximum numb 
number of Traits you possess 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


in combat over a valuable jade 
al bid("TimeforaQuickpunch 
declare their total number 
he's got against the akum 
however, so he wins the c 
damage and faces a mure 
t about the rules or the conditions of a 
to make a judgment. Try to remain in 
arrator. Any interruption in the progress of the 
ossible, so work problems out with other players 
cation of a certain rule, it's usually 
udes supernatural powers that use Mental or Social 
otherwise. A character cannot continue attempting 
until he finally succeeds. This stricture does not 
t then redeemed through retests or overbids. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


There are a num 
complicated. The basic 
rules add a few bells an 
opponent in that category, you may 
state a number of Traits less than th 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ine if you can do something successfully when 
Tests are often used when using Disciplines. 
to risk or bid Traits, though some may. 
ts allow a character to retest. A retest allows a character to ignore 
st test and test again for anew result. Retests are most commonly 
bilities, but other Traits may also provide them. Generally, 
el of an appropriate Ability allows for one retest. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


firing a gun, the opponeilL 
LL 
the attacker to accept the r 
roundhouse kick”). Xiungresponds by stri 
knock your legs out from under you with 
of Traits are assumed to go “simultaneously,” though the Narrat 
one to act first for resolution purposes. 
Sometimes, a character with a high number of Traits 
with fewer Traits, who will decide to strike back. In this c 
fewer Traits resolves his action in the same test as the faster 
however, he loses the ability to take any aggressive action for 
one action with the counterattack. 
Some people also question exactly how a player can re 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


It’s a fact of life tha 
matches of Rock- 
t turn. If no one 
er must bid enough Traits to counter every 
t have enough Traits, he must relent to the rest 
aining attackers engage in one simultaneous 
s sign to each of the attacker’s signs, applying 
e defending character throws Scissors and his 
rs and attackers lose Traits bid in any given loss. If the 
een made, they are resolved in the standard order of 
ossible for a defender to lose Traits to the first attackers 
cker later in the same mob challenge. That’s okay - 
” the defender. However, unless the defender has a 
to take multiple actions, he may only attempt to 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


attackers lose, the defender 
When the defender in a r n o D  cnaiieng 
rw 
is always considered to b 
and turns. A chronicle 
somehow, and which 
of time it takes to resolve 
locations, the scene has 
In some instances, a character may be interrupte 
If a power affects a chara 
turns when turn-based tim 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


experience in itself. 
they therefore haw long life. 
- 
Lao Tzu, Tao Te Chi 
ts instead. Note: A character may always attempt 
obile, although he may whisper pained 
s until he has healed at least one health 
, and he may do nothing more than heal 
ey suffer aggravated wounds at this point. 
-Kuei-jin who are injured beyond Incapacitated by lethal damage, 
Chi in their bodies, fall into a limbo state they call as the Little 
reaming into the searing razor winds of Yomi forever. 
captured by the forces of a nasty akuma. During the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


1 damage if he doesn’t have 
(Further bashing damage 
uy off these Traits n 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


level of aggravated damage. 
until the damage has been healed. 
ts to resist the sun’s energy. Each Yang Trait 
ts of sunlight for one additional turn. Once his 
rotting begins anew.. . . 
- 
the undead fear and loathe fire, and 
. Kuei-jin are no exception to this rule, 
ncomfortable around open flame than 
game terms, wounds inflicted by fire do aggravated damage 
ently large sources of flame may even provoke a challenge 
ain their bodies, lest they begin to crumble and fall 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


apart. Each time a Kuei-jin 
Discipline or even merely ani 
of lethal damage instead. A Kuei 
dies in a heap of dust and bones, her 
like it!’ Fighting-another 
tenminutes. I turn around. ‘You lookat 
- 
another twenty minutes. The whok movie -just fighting. Makes t 
tired. ” [sic] 
-Jackie Chan, ABE Biography 
WOvh3HIT1Y e- 
Three-Step Rule 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


do not wish to interact. Once you call “Fair 
without being pursued. There are several 
conversational distance is 
gain, use common 
e from a foe using Adv 
strike one another. Instead, characters should 
Traits for combat or other appropriate 
is offset by a disadvantage in terms of a 
e way as regular Negative Traits. The weapon’s 
nly against the wielder of that weapon. Negative 
e appropriate to the situation. For instance, if you are 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


' ~ 9  
firing a pistol and your 
you, that Negative Tx 
Concealability 
ns can take some 
cter can turn to 
channels in order to procure equipment, 
Some weapons have special abilities, allowing an 
damage, ignore certain types of protection or strike mu 
powers are noted under the weapon descriptions.) 
Armor-Piercing 
Special rounds, generally Teflon-coated, are able to p 
Destroy Shield 
Although rare in this day 
still use shields. A weapon 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Simple Test immediately. 
health level of damage fro 
erheated ammun 
mage on a target, 
extra health level 
ts at once, as noted under the weapon's 
one test against all the targets simulta- 
suffers the weapon's damage, while each 
s damage. The shooter risks enough Traits 
is opponent is also using a firearm, she bids Mental 
is not using a firearm and is merely trying to dodge, 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


then the attacker uses Mental 
Knife/Dagger - 
These eas 
ning fast in the hands of a skilled 
essential function is the same.) 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Broken Battle - 
A good example of a weapon made from scratch. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Vest (ouch!) 
Damage: 1 health level 
Availability: Comer bar, maybe the floor 
Sash - 
A weapon unique to the East, a sash may be u 
character with appropriate Martial Arts training. Melee alone 
practitioners can entangle and blind their foes, and true mas 
sash with sufficient force and precision to slash their foes a 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Delicate 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: 1 health level 
Availability: Almost an 
fairly high quality, if only fo 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Bonus Traits: 2 
on that has the 
stores carry suitable staves. Spears typically 
oft length of wood or metal sharpened at one end, these humble 
etheless been the downfall of many vampires over the centuries. 
emember that to be effective the stake being used 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


must be made of material appr 
for Yin vampires, metal for Y 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Trenchcoat 
master swor 
Japanese nodachi. 
Bonus Traits: 5 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy, Slow 
Concealability: I think not, gaijin. 
Damage: 3 health levels 
Availability: Expensive but available through the same so 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


rows may stake a vampire if 
a successful hit. Destroy Shie 
Pistol-This desi 
eces to 9mms and 
d; Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
character must specifically acquire such ammunition to gain 
ot included automatically when using a rifle. 
weIful weapn fires a spray of pellets, making targets easy to hit. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Availability: Any, if regist 
1, and they fire a large 
Bonus Traits: 2 
ive Traits: Loud 
beyond repair. Fixing armor requires the proper tools and a Static 
Challenge with the Repair Ability. 
Chain-mail -This 
category covers most medium leve 
scale and brigandine. True chain-mail is quite rare in the 
Health levels: 2 
upward of $500 or more. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


t be custom-ordered, and it ca 
Health levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Police 4 or U 
R e i n f d  (bulletproaf) 
Health levels: 3 
be surprised for the first attack. He may 
resolved as stated. 
tics Ability to throw projectiles like knives or axes 
ake allowances for factors like the Black Wind Discipline. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


If cover is extensive, it 
Traits available for cover is 
completely under cover (he cannot be seen at all and is thoroughly protected), he 
is considered impossible to hit. The attacker must change his position to get a clear 
shot. 
how your character 
cks and defenses. Th 
ies beyond what is li 
UI honored tradition in Kuei-jin society. It occurs when two 
ters lock eyes in a test ofwills for the purpose of intimidating each other. The 
to force one’s rival to back down before a conflict actually comes to blows. 
elder’s decision. 
does not relent during a facedown, a Social Challenge is nec 
victor. The Social Challenge proceeds as normal, with th 
contact and losing the contest. 
~ ~ E s O ! h . .  
Fire soul is an uncontrolla 
to succumb to a vicious form 
animal. While in fire soul, a 
bare hands and fangs to rip 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


n 
are targets of the vampire’s ragc 
soul in a Kuei-jin is often highly pCL3 
Crane have very different intole 
passion, defeat, humiliation at the 
ones. 
However, discretion is advised. A c 
cannot ignore something that woul 
expedient for them to be in fire so 
ks all those aroun 
waves of fear). Cathayan society consid 
Kuei-jin avoid it at all costs, especially 
causes of wave soul can vary from va 
expedient to panic. This stat 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ed w 
ed). 
ith a Stal 
stunts are still forbiddenby the 
discretion is the guide, but act 
environment will allow. 
own as shadow soul, 
emon status 
1’s most common 
a Static Hun Challenge (permanent Hun versus 
isked). Failure places the Kuei-jin under the 
ways mean indulging in mindless 
reasons shadow soul is so widely 
in their activities, which means 
ily on shadow soul for one simple reason: The 
rtable at first when playing the Demon, since the 
ul will usually hurt their character’s regular plans 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


at best - 
these 
debauchery. They hide behind the words ‘‘I was in shado 
manner of disruptive game acts, no matter what their actual 
be. Others just happen to “coincidentally” remember action 
if there is no way their character should know what occurred. 
struck early on in the game, much of the drama and traged 
will be lost. Therefore, take time before the game begins t 
role of the P’o and why it deserves to be treated seriously. 
threat of shadow soul, Cathayans quickly become one-sid 
Rather, encourage players to view the threat of P‘o-domi 
from within, not simply a game mechanic used to “screw them 
the P’o as deeply as they do th 
the character’s soul, a dark one 
ways to control the curse of th 
to avoid such domination sim 
experienced players come to 
Hun persona. Hun and P’o a 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


too many evil impulse 
acter one or more Wil 
Wraith: The Oblivion) for hand 
ters during periods of 
as well. Some people also lack the assertiveness 
ide correctly, which causes their targets 
w their P'o as a weak distraction instead 
ep beyond the boundaries of the role, bogging the 
temptations to the point of distraction. The fights 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


such 
1 
is an impartial act of roleplaying 
side. Those who take the actio] 
assigned another Shadowguide, 
game for a session or two and cl 
warrant the Demon’s interest (determin 
cases asked to sit out the 
SOUL i ~ z ~ j T ’ I + ~ D  
€-SI: 
Ilbuiurciwg/ LoMwwg bw- 
Enlightenment is all well and good, but sooner or late 
Dharmic journey, and such 
whether a character learns 
occasions that demand the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ht, the player and the 
make a series of Static 
permanent Willpower 
all). The character uses 
ee Hun and three 
or loss outcome is 
ns are as follows: 
e results of the Dharm 
-for 
what it re 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


number of tests), no 
ive an automatic 
ests. You cannot 
There are also no 
ral concerns to overcome the quest for enlight- 
mortal, the vampire can actually threaten the 
mightiest ancestor and wisest bodhisattva 
e under Heaven. When a character loses 
be it temporal or spiritual. 
Its of the Dharma Test for acts of blindness are as follows: 
as if the stem gaze of Heaven is watching you, 
s quickly, leaving you shaken and sure that you 
, unseen calamity. Whew. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


If the P o  wins, you kno 
up wanting. Your vision lite 
Realm howl in your ears, and you 
of Heaven. By the time your visio 
sand blowing in the wind, and the Demon immediately takes hold, seeking to 
drown your shame in a tide of blood and stolen Chi. You lose a point of Dharma 
and enter shadow soul immediately for the remainder of the scene. 
ism of zero Dharma. There are few things con 
culture than falling to zero Dharma and reverti 
is analogous to reverting to infancy once more. 
be sure, but infancy nonetheless.) 
overcomes her immediately, and she becomes a mindless ki 
If a moment of blindness reduces a character to 
or easily, and it can be cou 
benefactor and escape. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ters are subjected to all 
for Dharmic change, ri 
play and pad a character’s stats. Players 
abuse the Storyteller in the name of 
at privilege revoked. It’s disruptive, for 
o the Westerners themselves, but all of them seem 
long her Dharmic path. The more enlightened one 
s of obtaining sustenance from the universe around 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


 
The most base of Kuei-jin, 
flesh. Even after rising in Dharm 
t on nothing but human 
ay continue to ingest the 
infamous wu are rumored to have raised 
r even no 
m counterparts 
Of course, the circumstances of th 
a vampire can receive. A mortal at the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


drinking allows the gr 
Chi isobtained. Kuei-j 
are likely to receive Ya 
d to resist breath- 
t first possess a Dharma level equal to or 
only vampires of high Dharma indulge in 
should fail, or should additional Chi be required, the character 
leash his P'o to rip the Chi from the very world itself. A Static 
ersus a difficulty of the local Wall is required. Success means 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


sily upset by such ( 
r has met his demi: 
abuse of Heaven’s bounty.. .. 
termined to 
spirits and other shen are ea 
more than one greedy eIdei 
..__ 
:all0 
tht 
je at 
del 
Ltlr FMsQLdlcr 
Since they derive their true sustenance from Chi and not 
or other sources, Kuei-jin have some advantages over their 
instance, their Chi is more flexible in many ways, and it allow 
of basic abilities than the Kin-jin know of. That’s the good 
that because their bodies are essentially alchemical dist 
personal Chi reservoirs, the energies in the Kuei-jin body 
either permanently or temporarily, often with disastrou 
Kuei-jin take pains to try to maintain a harmonious 
themselves, if only to avoid the consequences that 
balance mandated by Heaven. 
but it remains a 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


iated with the Chi 
Chi freezes and rots 
up, minimum one 
are specific by the type of imbalance: 
his pain response weakens greatly (the vampire 
injured as he actually is, round down, until he 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


im 
soul, due to t'he utter detachme 
aspect himself to Yin upon awak 
-no longer does the black cyc 
imbalanced vampires also grow 
ead flesh, which may pose 
a few problems for Dharmic purity. The imbalanced vampire is one Trait down on 
inutes as he has Phi 
tal diseases easily, and the player must make a Static Physical 
t a difficulty determined by the amount of risky behavior he 
Chi Traits in his body and uncontrollable if he has less than tw 
body. 
East Companion. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Virtues may represent more of a moral choice 
imbalance of their Chi Virtues, but the results 
. Their Demon often spends more time in control of 
to whatever derangement suits 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


-- 
much emphasis on the Hi 
committed by those “just follvwlll 
much stress on rules and orga 
Searing, and it inflicts one level of aggravated damage. I 
Repelled by Crosses, he takes an additional level of a 
touched on bare skin by a cross wielded by a person wit 
A player of a character with True Faith may attem 
D 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Created under v 
two forces conflict, there a 
or commit diablerie. This 
t diablerize Kuei-jin - 
Y 
’ on these souls. 
h the Storyteller stresses that such characters 
desperation and misery, and that they have 
Yama Kings in return for powers that will 
o want to play akuma. This section 
dread enemies of the Wan Xian and 
fting toward the lacerating winds of 
uirements, benefits and drawbacks 
Don’t say you haven’t been warned about 
vampires think. After all, the vampire 
e Yama Kings cannot obtain easily on 
, and most count the souls of Kuei-jin 
ter” anyway. Powers? Don’t make them laugh. No, 
the vampire pleads to the lords of 
or he swears loyalty to their cause 
a character who accepts that first 
s a big old contract in blood. Hell 
ing, and whether or not he knows it, the Kuei- 
making any kind of deal. The game benefits of 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


__ 
naturally, which leads to the next stage. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ite should 
er her shoulder, demanding constant 
f being exposed too early and being 
character will be forced to c 
never given out, and those who 
r, a vampire may also gain Status 
invent new Status Traits to suit their own stories 
ations of the characters receiving the Traits. 
ty. A court official (such as the Minister of War or 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


thing. 
Naturally, a character may lo: 
Falsely accusing another vampire of a 
recklessly in the eyes of the elders or r 
can become quite a chore for one Storyteller to handle. 
ed that troupes assign a special Narrator, called the 
or activities like boons or snubs to the Whisper Keeper as soon as the gamepe 
zxpMeLEsorsTlcNs 
The following are some examples of the uses and bene 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


per Trait removed. 
uch is often done as 
and thus, leaving the 
fficient cause can 
Dharmic rating accords the status of 
owers by the court if he displeases his 
here. If that happens, the character 
ed courts or with Kuei-jin who choose to remain 
e may be quite a few characters who qualify to 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


necessary) is beyond question or r 
to stand against them in court. 
chronicles, let alone re-draw polit 
casual or accidental. 
eir appearances mome 
arhat, and those that 
ment. 
Obviously, a single bodhisattva can wield extraord 
in Kuei-jin society with very little effort. For this reason, 
only Narrators be entrusted with bodhisattva characters. 
abuse their powers should be removed to Storyteller cont 
balance. 
The Ancestor 
The ancestor of a court gains the three additional Stat 
while remaining ancestor. 
The ancestor can remove o 
cost of one temporary Status Trait 
may thus break the rule of 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Mandarins ma 
r a particular court, the council of mandarins 
rovided there is a majority vote in favor of the 
the same powers as mandarins, with the exception of nominating 
ad of an ancestor, although they receive only the Status Trait: 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Thunder 
Dharmic rank, altho 
the trust of the court 
for an answer. 
Some common posts that lesser Kuei-jin hold 
reality, however, face is far 
enforced with lethal zeal b 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


unced then. Kue 
loaned Status Traits. H 
ray. They are restored 
0, but a matter of face may seem a small price to pay 
as the Traits associated with it. Thus a minor boon 
, such as protecting someone for the 
e or supporting another’s political move. 
an one evening, and they usually entail some 
eat expenditure of time or resources on the 
vor usually last for many game sessions. An 
a boon would be teaching the receiver a new Discipline, or 
tclub to serve as the receiver’s haven. 
bestower actively risking her unlife for the receiver’s 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


court’s thunders on 
treated fairly and bro 
the summons of the 
formal affairs and less arbitrary t 
helps) innocent. Storytellers are encouraged to pull ou 
es brought before a Kuei-jin court. All the wu of a court 
=BEXOYD Tilf WALL. 
W
S
O
~
E
a
8
r
 
* l r y r s W D ~ * l r y r Y V O ~ L D S  iY 
acknowledge and interact 
angered) ancestors to the th 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


1 
t 
Laws of the East. The spir 
rewarding aspect of the game, 
of the game can seriously dam 
with consideration toward ch 
ect of the Middle Kingdom is a rich and 
1 to play. That aspect 
handled well - 
and 
the personal havens of great demon lords. 
goes to be tormented before the Second 
re are all too familiar for most vampires’ 
ess the power to cross into the Yin and Yang 
their bodies into pure Chi energy. See the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


favorite crossover sites due to their 
the reliability of their destination 
prized among the different shen of the Fifth Age, which can make powerful ones 
The Unseen Master should keep arecord of the general Wall 1 
place in the play area, and he may wish to put up signs indicatin 
rating. 
Traits and Chi are used to determine any necessary resul 
over). Characters thus transported cannot necessarily cross 
they had best mind the leader or find themselves stranded 
W D i W i  l'H€ DlrqW's n N 9 u E  
and ethereal experience. Du 
very close to the surface 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Hells 
h their dark mastei 
py on another one of the pretenders to the throne of the Sixth Age 
I. sometimes a wu simdv has the bad fortune to find itself surroundec 
. 
1 1  1 
. 
r i 1  
1 
virons or neii w 
vercng me spirit wortas, naving roiiowea 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


~~~~ 
~ 
Kuei-jin who become overly 
should remember that wick 
webs are strung over everything as great spiritual spid 
them in the Mirror Lands. Beyond the gates and traps 
However, players both new and old to 
Darkness should take care, for the Yin and 
difference in even the smal 
Laws of the Wild in a kimo 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


hearing folktales as 
frequently as many 
It is also possible that players will try to abuse 
r advantage by entering the spirit worlds con- 
picious in the extreme, as the Mirror Lands contain 
dangers unlike anything found on the Earth (not to 
mention that many shen are wiser in the ways of the 
spirit worlds than most Kuei-jin are). An Unseen 
Master has free reign to throw Mukade, angry 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


To indicate that his charac 
right hand across his chest. ME 
YQ" 
d of 
are in the Mirror Lands and 1," 
confusion during game-play. 
*TV= 
Most of 
truly focus their powers. 
IceMt. X-QNqsrulbM-ws 
infect the Yin realms. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ai revere. These mighty beings 
ey assume abstract forms and 
uch an exalted personage during the course of a 
game of Laws of the 
. Knowing what spirits side 
irror Lands, but it is a halting 
ith are wraiths, Gafflings, Jagglings and nushi 
the Spirit Creation Table. To determine the 
r spirit creation, see the information on spirit types 
d weakest of all spirits. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Power Pool: 7 maximu 
ost common spirits in the spirit w 
Power Pool: 10 maximum 
Charms: Any up to 5 
Rage: 7 maximum 
Willpower: 7 maximum 
Chi 7 maximum 
Abilities: 10 maximum; maximum of 5 Traits per Ability 
Yusw 
These are the more powerful servants of the Heavenly 
Creation Points: 40 
Negative Traits: Maximum of five 
Power Pool: 20 maximum 
Charms: Any up to 7 
Rage: 8 maximum 
Willpower: 8 maximum 
Chi 8 maximum 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Rage: 10 maximum 
Willpower: 10 maximum 
Chi 10 maximum 
in the Mirror Lands, it does so by making a 
tion on wraiths/ Yin-spirits in spirit combat, see 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Access Dragon Nest 
Power Cost: 6 
Same as the Kuei-jin Rite of Suppl' tcution. 
Hundred Invisible Fingers 
Power Cost: Variable 
is a catch-all de 
Power Cost: 2 
e 
in those patterns. 
Affinity Ward 
Power Cost: Variable, + l/challenge 
Charm is the number of Power 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


aracter’s availab 
nd a Willpower Trait in ord 
The most common 
Power Cost: 3, +l/minute 
only be able to affect areas related to the ocean. 
progress possess this dreaded Charm. It allows 
spiritual surroundings by making a Willpower 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


p truly advancec 
i t  aid in any effori 
Power Cost: 10 
This Charm purges spir 
wounded areas to heal and fre 
Spin the Senses 
Power Cost: 2 
subject. A Static Gnosis Challenge, the difficulty of whi 
complexity or specialty of the information sought, determines 
the information gained. 
Intangibility 
Power Cost: 4, +l/minute 
can be seen and heard, but not touched or harmed when In 
affect an intangible spirit, but Obl 
Power Cost: 10 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


affect the physical world 
area. When it materializes, 
Power Cost Trait 
For each level of an 
Spirits are not limited i 
rby, even if he is not 
spirit, obscuring it and preventing it from 
cannot be penetrated by eyesight alone. 
ows the spirit to grant others the ability to ride 
irit to possess an animal after a successful Gnosis 
rating of the animal's spirit. The animal is then 
irit until the animal is slain, the spirit runs out of 
c PI..%.- 
@ 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


The Narrator controlling th 
host (Storyteller discretion). The target can spend a Willpower Trait to repel any 
attempt to use Possession. 
Goblin Hands 
Power Cost: 1 
craftsmen. 
s of the Firebird 
in Gnosis (which can be converted to Power on a 
three Traits it is attempting to steal. 
replenish a spirit. 
Kuei-jin and spirits can also submit to this Charm 
Shake the Pillars of Heaven 
Power Cost: 5/10 foot area, lO/level of damage 
Notorietyrepresents a Kuei-j 
The Unseen Master assigns 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


or exhibits abusive behavior. Of 
demon attacks you and you strike 
placating the infema 
and you intimidate it out o 
use, you may receive 
ereby “giving up” your old name) or freeing 
require an Obligation of some sort in payment for 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


of a chronicle is intangible, your choice of mood can be one of the most important 
ones you make as regards plot, character and theme. After all, if you’re going for 
a mood of contemplation, a chop-socky plot (and characters to match) won’t make 
much sense. 
r c  
Themes are central ideas of a chronicle, ones that help define the shape of the 
action. They can be as visceral as the struggle for freedom or as intellectual as the 
age-old questions of good and evil. Themes can emerge as seemingly inconsequen- 
tial encounters or as the major focus of a chronicle. Avoid overemphasizing theme, 
however. Overemphasis makes related events expected and predictable rather 
than haunting and prophetic. 
S m Y O  
The setting is the stage on which the drama of a chronicle plays out. Setting 
is composed of environment and locale. Environment describes the overall scheme 
of the world. The environment of Laws of the East involves the many levels of 
Kuei-jin existence, including: conflicts between and within courts and w, the 
battle against the Demon within, the trials of Running Monkeys seeking to get a 
hold on their new existence, the defense of mortals dear to one’s old life, the fadin 
of ancient traditions and much more. A myriad of PO 
available. It’s your reality - 
do with it what you will. 
next step toward chronicle-creation. Obviously, your setting 
location in the East, and it is typically easiest to take a plac 
knowledge of, if possible. Alternatively, you could choose a 
are especially interested in, one you would like to learn more a 
and tiny farming villages are all possible locations, but there 
to bookstores and libraries for the relevant information, watch 
and (most of all) use your imagination. For many real Easte 
actual maps, tourist videos and other useful aids. If you choo 
location, rely on books to guide you to the sorts of things that should be found there. 
All of this planning takes a great deal of imagination, but the more detail spent in 
developing a locale, the richer the chronicle will be. 
Locale, or the physical place where you choose to set y 
* E r i W +  
Ci= 
Most chronicles are focused around a city or a town, even if the characters 
might travel widely from it as time goes on. This place is the locus of your chronicle. 
You need to present your city in a realistic and consistent manner so the players 
believe in it. There has to be more than just each character’s resting place and the 
court’s palace to make a place come alive. Remember, most of the regular cast, 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


I The setting must seem to be a character 
ers cannot really come to be until it does. 
s take place - 
the more interesting and exotic it seems, 
to life. With each story you run, define the city a little 
jin? What courts do they preside 
re there any contenders for the 
of ancestor itself? Mandarins and 
learned because 
ads the local churc 
pecially important to consider which 
the Kuei-jin if provoked, even more 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


le. For people to play out int 
be a tangible reward for a 
f power is a reward, it needs 
immediate and real. It needs to be visible and obtainable. Most importantly, it 
needs to be given out only occasionally to inspire characters to pursue it, but not 
so often that opportunities are passed on or that the power level of the game rises 
to unmanageable levels. 
h m o y  
Many characters eventually want to assume positions of power, whether 
among their fellow Kuei-jin in a court or among the mortals of a city. In some 
games, this is just another aspect of the self-generating plots players contrive on 
their own. In other games, you may plan the characters’ search for power from the 
beginning. In either case, you need to learn what long-term goals your players want 
to accomplish in the chronicle. You can then tailor an occasional session to these 
goals, but don’t give the players everything they want. Some may covet powerful 
positions such as Minister of Warfare or Mistress of the Spirit Realm, or to advance 
the agendas of the wu they belong to. Others may try to combat the plots of the 
Yama Kings, or investigate the unique condition of the Kuei-jin soul. Bot 
involve power in one form or another, be it over others or over one’s self. Mo 
a few players don’t know or admit what they want in the long-term, or th 
not desire power. Don’t worry, they’ll set their sights on something in ti 
especially if guided by the nushi they follow or other players. Practice stringin 
players along. Keep a carrot dangling before them. After all, you’ve got the whole 
world to play with as a Storyteller. You can certainly offer something to keep them 
coming back for more. 
r
i
f
~
=
o
~
o
~
~
 
In most chronicles, it’s likely that one or more characters are in a pos 
power. If such is the case, the players need to know exactly what their respon 
ties and advantages are. In general, any players in the role of ancestor, 
or wu leader should be experienced enough to assist you as aNarrat 
characters can have tremendous impact on lesser characte 
whole, players should know what the ramifications of their 
them into consideration. Only experience in play develops 
vital that players with characters in positions of power 
responsibilities and their limits. Powerful characters, i 
discourage players with weaker characters quickly. This abuse drives off ne 
players, and eventually the barbaric power-garners may find themselves with no 
one to lord over except one another. 
*ow= 
b w -  
The key to a successful chronicle is a constant and uninterrupted flow of 
action. In the real world, events never stop occurring, and everyone gets dragged 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


chronicle should have the same ebb 
maginative Storyteller occasionally runs out of 
e too often to give yourself time to create new 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


props available can be helpful when the story goes off on a tangent. Many of the 
prop ideas already suggested can be used to reorient players. For example, a sealed 
transcript of a call between one of the mandarins of the court and a known akuma, 
containing an important message (that just happens to be a vital plot point) can 
renew characters’ interest in their original goal. 
Miiw=Nw= 
SYD q-w-KPV4q 
It’s a simple fact that the longer a chronicle runs, the more complex it 
becomes. The increased size of some chronicles only amplifies this fact. Developing 
a method for and the habit of keeping records is essential. The easiest part of the 
chronicle to keep records on is characters’ statistics. Make a master copy of each 
character. Someone is bound to lose his character card and need a replacement. 
Without a good memory or a master copy, this situation can pose a problem, 
especially with advanced characters. Storyteller records of characters also discour- 
age unscrupulous players from altering their characters in the field. Furthermore, 
you can make use of character information when designing new stories. It’s also a 
good idea to update your master copies after each story, given changes arising from 
experience, rewards and penalties. 
A journal of events from each session proves equally invaluable, 
understand changes the chronicle undergoes. You can then apply thes 
new stories. Ideally, you, the Narrators and players should all file some sort o 
informal report after each story. Records from everyone can 
all events and let you in on players’ individual intentions. To e 
provide this information accurately, consider making reports m 
experience only after you receive them. Make it clear that 
confidential, and that they will not be used to “screw players over. 
-VbY-mrSYDBbLPY= 
The greatest reward for some players is the sheer joy of pl 
many players prefer to see their characters improve in status and PO 
must be satisfied. Players who enjoy the story for its own sake are easy to please. In 
fact, they often please themselves by pursuing the goals their characters desire, 
which are often interpreted by the players themselves. Pleasing accomplishment 
seekers is a little more difficult. Allow characters chances to improve their statio 
in the chronicle, as long as it’s within the scope of things. When characters reac 
tangible goals, their players are happy. However, to keep players happy without 
their characters achieving massive power, be prepared to take characters down a 
peg or two, or allow other characters to do so for you. Besides creating revenge 
motives, such attacks fire players’ desire to achieve more. Experience Traits, which 
players spend to improve their characters, are one form of reward, but there are 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


,ken into careful consideration when 
1 location you choose must fit the needs 
anning a game is finding a good place to play. 
ed by the specific needs of your story. Factors 
u have enough room for 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


malls, offic 
d wareh 
doing. If your players arrive 
ays be polite and careful wh 
nsider having some business 
have more time. Under no circumstances should you try to interact with innocent 
bystanders in character. 
Some sites are more conducive to a certain types of stories than others. You 
may find that a particular location is your favorite, but even then, you should keep 
your mind open to change. A change of locale, even if for only one scene, can help 
revive a dying chronicle. Most locations (or “sets”) can be decorated to convey a 
specific mood. You must seek out sites that cater to the style of your game and 
nature of its plot. For best results, the setting should have a basis in reality. In other 
words, if it’s a high-energy social atmosphere you seek, stage your story in a 
nightclub (and find a place with loud music, low lighting and other trappings that 
lend themselves easily to the setting). If you’re looking for a calm and reflective 
setting, perhaps a clearing by a forest pool (a sparsely decorated area, preferably 
with lots of natural features and some small body of water) would be best. For 
politics and power plays, try a corporate locale. When choosing a location, look for 
an area that establishes the mood and atmaphere you’re after right from the beginning. 
cltul9iY9 S-W 
Sometimes it’s necessary to use one area for different settings within the same 
story. Actual set changes should be performed quickly and efficiently. 
changes leave players bored. When your scene is changed, give it a las 
making sure everything is in place. A scene change should b 
players enter the room again, they should have the distinct 
entering a new place. Your new decorations don’t even 
complicated. A quick shift of the couch or table, switching o 
rug, covering the fish tank and moving or removing chairs all 
feel of a room without necessitating major alterations. Changi 
music can also make a big difference in a set’s feel. 
h i s y C € W D  MOOD 
lives of most players, and doing so challenges your creativity. 
feel for a scene is governed by setting and environment. However, ambiance and 
mood are established and maintained by effects that are imposed on the environ- 
ment. Room decorations, recorded music and careful lighting are often the fina 
touches for creating a scene. 
Dewrations - 
Most modem rooms look, well, modem and a touch on th 
stale side. Some people are lucky enough to find a room they can use that is 
furnished in Eastern fashion, but most troupes will be using a modem meeting hall. 
All it takes is a few simple touches to spark players’ imaginations, allowing them 
to place themselves in the Middle Kingdom. Wall and floor decorations are usually 
the first place to start. Cover up modem features, and decorate with Eastern 
Laws of the East offers you a chance to create a world far a 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


s and perhaps a Zen garden or a few 
and notices appropriate to the game, 
ket in America as well 
rary or music store will tu 
Audio Effects - 
Ab 
ond music, certain sounds and effects can 
effect CDs, found in any music store, are 
an provide a variety of sound effects to 
ying screams, clashing blades, howling 
omatic gunfire can be hea 
than delaying the entire ga 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ever, you can st 
onders for atmosphere in a 
wattages and plain white light, even for city scenes, as they tend to make the scene 
look dull and modem. Multicolored light bulbs have the most broad effect. By 
arranging multicolored light bulbs in different parts of the room, you can create 
shadowy areas and still have well-lit “white light” areas where the colors intersect. 
If you have track lighting, recessed multicolored bulbs work very well. If you can’t 
get multicolored bulbs, cloth draped over lights works just as well (but avoid 
putting cloth in direct contact with hot bulbs). The key is contrast from low 
wattage bulbs. Keeping enough low-wattage lights to contrast with one another 
results in plenty of light to see by and plenty of shadows to hide in. Play around with 
different combinations to determine what works best for your mood and scene. 
While actual flame may be very atmospheric, it should be used extremely sparingly 
and with the absolute utmost caution. It’s certainly wonderfully atmospheric to 
have a circle of students sit in reverent awe at the feet of a bodhisattva surrounded 
by tiny candles, but buming down your site generally has a detrimental effect on 
a chronicle. Even without actual fire, though, if you keep your wattage low, avoid 
direct white light and experiment with your color schemes and lamp locations, you 
should be able to find the right combination to create the proper atmosphere for 
your story. 
PIpPS 
After you’ve got a story, players, a place to play, an 
appropriate soundtrack to accompany the game, something 
bring the story to life. Props come in at this point. Props for a 
be grandiose or expensive. Most props can be found in your 
grandparents’ attic or simply constructed. 
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, props should be kept relatively si 
attract more attention than the story itself. Only a few touches 
a player’s imagination fill in the blanks. Since this game is a 
imagination is of the utmost importance. Not that you shou 
props. If you have the available materials, go wild. Just make 
not the focus of the story. The spotlight should always rem 
not on what surrounds them. 
9HIHIPlfFWS 
something that they can examine physically. The Storyteller should be wary of 
how often physical props are used and what impact they have on the story. If 
physical props are allowed to dominate a story, players may begin to rely on them 
rather than interacting with one another. Be sure to inform players when props will 
be used in a story. Otherwise, they are likely to disregard an important clue, 
considering it just another feature of the place you’re playing in. Likewise, if you 
General props are items that help you further a story by giving player 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


the game, be sure to tell players ahead 
nformed that the antique katana they 
elry work best; real jewels 
all else fail, second-hand 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ories, 
weapons) are the best way to go. 
q E J w t + m j ~  
Story creation can be as simple or as detailed as you want. The more effort you 
put into preparing a story, the smoother it runs when it’s executed. There is no 
small amount of satisfaction to be gained from writing a successful and well- 
appreciated story, but that’s easier said than done. Finding the right combination 
see and change it into something all your own. Inspiration can be, quite literally, 
v 
I, recreating some of the disorientation of a surprise attack by positioning 
selves to come out of hiding from many directions without comprising 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


tive thought. Hence, imp 
choose to begin your story. It can 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


W-K 
When the main plot is on the verge of conclusion, the story is considered to 
be at its climax. This usually happens when characters have discovered all they 
need to know to solve whatever problem faces them and are on the verge of 
resolving the story. The tension is usually at its highest point at this time. If the 
opening was staged carefully, and the players are cooperative and imaginative, the 
climax can be reached with little additional effort on the part of Narrators. 
However, even the best of plans can be mislaid, or perhaps the Storyteller and 
Narrators prefer to take a more active role in the progression of your story’s plot. 
Either way, there are times when a Narrator’s intervention is warranted. 
The climax should be the high point of the story, something the players should 
always anticipate and work toward. However, this element should never be rushed. 
It’s a matter of timing. Extended chronicles shouldn’t have everything wrapped up 
in asingle climax. After all, you need to have something for the vampires to do next 
week. 
Often, a story’s climax takes the form of a com 
have to be the case. Quests into the spirit world 
vampirism, unmasking notorious criminals, staredowns and so on can all 
dramatic weight of serving as a story’s climax. 
though they have accomplished something. They do 
picture. Merely knowing they’ve found another piece 
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, players often enjoy 
session after a game. Unlike players of table-top g 
rarely see all of the action that takes place; they get wrapped u 
not the group’s. During wrap-up sessions, many players look 
more about “the big pict 
0w-4~1- 
GdWf~q 
The game doesn’t have to end when everyone puts down their character 
sheets. In-character e-mails, informal discussions at coffee houses and the like can 
all serve as both roleplaying exercises and as ways to advance plots. As long as 
players keep some perspective on this sort of thing (phone calls at 3:OO A.M. to 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


need for help), off-line gaming can be 
consideration is the type of characters cast 
it can occasion 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


e 
The main, or metaplot is the root of a story, and any other lesserplots from the 
main plot. The main plot is what brings characters together, unifying their 
attention. The main plot of a story should be all-encompassing, in that all 
characters should be affected by it in at least a minor fashion. The main plot should 
illuminate every other aspect of the story. Not every character needs to be touched 
by your metaplot directly, but each character should be aware of the main plot on 
some peripheral level. 
SuaPLOrs 
In most novels and movies, subplots are just filler material. Subplots are 
essential to Mind’s Eye Theatre, however. These secondary stories keep charac- 
ters busy and carry them from moment to moment. They are the stories that are 
woven around the characters. A story gives players ample opportunities to explore 
subplots, and due to the unique nature of this sort of game, subplots can be taken 
as far as the players want to take them. Each character should be involved in as 
many subplots as possible. 
A subplot can be any personal goal a character is 
Subplots should be crafted so as to intermingle with one an0 
become embroiled in a web of intrigue as one subplot leads them to 
more layers of intrigue in a story, the more players enjoy un 
if your setting is intricate enough, you may find players deve 
own, adding to the confusion. This wild metastasis of plot 
because it helps the story grow and gives it a life of its own. A 
be almost as large in scope as the main plot, the difference b 
it is not necessary for everyone to be involved for it to come 
you should take care that the subplot does not override the 
prefixed with “sub-” for a reason. 
*- 
q v O Y s  
Character interaction is a part of every story and every chronicle. Intricate 
character interaction is essential to a story. Not that all characters will get alon 
harmoniously - 
the Fifth Age is notoriously contentious, and character strife 
usually much more interesting than One Big Happy Kuei-jin Family. Howeve 
making sure that characters relate to one another requires a bit of planning on your 
part. Making sure that players create backgrounds for their characters helps, as it 
gives you more material to work with to create common ground for Kuei-jin 
characters to share. Spreading rumors that provide incentive for discussion, trade 
and cooperation is another good way to go, as is the inclusion of a nasty villain who 
will force characters at least to discuss working together. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


l.”You have to present your 
environment without your 
e missing. Fortunately 
maintain the illusion, b 
e aspects of roleplaying. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


As a Storyteller, your focus should always be on keeping the game running as 
smoothly as possible. To ensure that the game doesn’t get out of hand, make sure 
you have enough Narrators. They’ll serve to answer players’ questions and resolve 
the majority of inter-player disputes, as your arbitration should be required in only 
the most extreme circumstances. More importantly, though, your Narrators will be 
an integral part of game action. As the arbiters of any large scale conflict, rituals, 
a guide to how the Demon might break free at any moment within any Kuei-jin, 
Narrators will be in constant interaction with players in all levels of your game. 
This arrangement requires a great deal of commitment from your Narrators, as 
they’ll be on the go constantly, interacting with only a few characters at a time. On 
the up side, your Narrators will have a good idea of who is working with who, and 
they can keep you informed. They can also spread information and rumors through 
the many Narrator characters they animate. Rather than having to cook up a 
convoluted plot to let characters know that an elder Kuei-jin might be slipping 
along his Dharmic path, you can have a Narrator character whisper it into a player’s 
ear. Of course, that character could be lying.. .. 
to pinpoint trouble spots quickly if the action slows or people ar 
Concentrate on where players stand in terms of resolving the 
mystery you have given them. If they are struggling, drop a few hints and spr 
few rumors, then watch your vampires scramble to discover new information. 
players are too close to solving the mystery, throw in a red he 
scene on the fly. Improvisation is a potent art, and Storytelle 
are well-rewarded. 
If you are playing in public, you must serve as a buffer betwe 
of the real world and the potential mayhem players can create 
better part of valor. Educate players on responsible playing and 
hand out rewards or punishments as the need arises. Preparat 
running a successful story. The greater the preparation, the less y 
about maintaining focus. A well-prepared game frees you to enj 
and interact with players, while a poorly prepared game leaves y 
maintain control. When you maintain focus on story elements 
and your players, you need not fear the results of any game ses 
At the same time, having your Narrators on the floor c 
eFE=qAUE TikKS 
the East. 
It’s the only way to make sure there’s enough staff and plot for everyone. 
There are several things you need to do to set up and run a game of Laws of 
1 -Make sure you know the size and scope of your game before anything else. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ned up well in advance. These items 
most time to round up, so you don’t 
eep a paper trail. N 
s. Keep track of who 
et deadlines and keep to 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


It’s wise to have spare cards on hand, since players, who have their own characters, 
may forget their cards. In addition, you’ll need pencils for everyone who’s forgotten 
their own. 
Timetable - 
(For Narrators only) This sheet contains a chronological list 
of all events that take place. Timetable sheets are useful for planning complex 
stories, and they help your Narrators coordinate where they have to be when. 
Events listed might be, “6:30 - 
Entrance of Court Magician, who announces 
ancestor will be late for the evening.” Make sure each Narrator has her own copy, 
and go through the events on the handout during your Narrator briefing. 
Background Briefing -This handout is a one-pager that you can create to 
provide a short background for the important characters of your chronicle. You 
should include any important events that have occurred, rumors that are circulat- 
ing throughout the city and important things that have happened in previous 
games. A new player should be able to pick up this handout and immediately have 
an idea of what is going on. (Lost players tend to be bored pl 
don’t come back.) The handout can mention things like 
takes place in and the name of the local movers and shak 
of this document and give one to each player, or leave several out in the open 
players to take. 
Character Briefing - 
Depending on how thorough yo 
process is, you may need to let individual players know specia 
characters know. It’s best to have these written down. Even th 
roleplayers have to resort to their notes every now and then. 
qulDlY9-9=H(s 
As your players begin to work out the story, it’s possible t 
unsure of themselves. New players in particular need some sort of 
them learn the rules and get used to acting out their characters’ 
a minor character in your story and engage a new player 
get her used to the rules. The challenge system works well in 
do not immediately understand it until after they’ve actually d 
in a challenge and gotten to try out the system in a non-threatening situatio 
to let new players win your challenge, as it builds their confidence, and confi 
is sorely needed when newcomers play in the same game as more experi 
players. 
Sometimes players also need help with their goals. A story that leans heavily 
toward investigation may frustrate players who miss one or two vital clues. 
Eventually, some players may come over to you asking for help. Unless the players 
have a rules question, or you have to clarify some point that a character should 
know by virtue of his history or background, you might not want to give 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


er receives immediate assistance from 
ependent on outside help. 
have usually either 
out how to allow such Traits as 
t giving away all the surprises in 
emember some of the following 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


nose and the dying moans ofher friends still ringing in her ears. Likewise, if a player 
comes to you looking for a reading of his I Ching or something similar, don’t turn 
him away. Try to create a scene that rings with the appropriate sense of ritual and 
tradition. Even if the player knows there is no supernatural accuracy behind such 
readings, his character is still likely to put some faith in the results. 
4) The Future Is Your Tool, Not Your Burden. When you give out 
prophecies, write them with an eye toward the major plots and themes you have 
in mind for the chronicle as a whole. When you send omens, use them to sharpen 
the mood you want for the session at hand. That way, if either of them come topass, 
they help out your story instead of feeling as though they were simply injected into 
the plot. Don’t be afraid to take time-outs in the middle of play if it’s necessary to 
get the wording of a prophecy just right. The game will be better for it in the long 
run. 
5 )  Always In Motion Is the Future! Last but not least, don’t be afraid to 
throw the players curves every now and then. If they have come to rely on fortune- 
tellers for every move they make, tell them the stars are hidden by clouds that night, 
or give them a prophecy that simply fails to come to pass. This t 
of “screwing the players over,” but rather a way of reminding 
something they must choose to follow for themselves, not si 
at the direction of some other being. Don’t feel bound to make all the proph 
you issue come true. Doing so makes you a prisoner of your own game rather 
its controller. 
i w - q w q  wm-w 
Your key to interacting with players is the minor charact 
An extra can be a pre-generated character already woven 
character created on the spur of the moment to fix a problem. 
create a character card for your extra; a basic concept is usua 
players’ characters really want to kill or otherwise interact wit 
Traits are called for, improvise as the plot demands.) 
players can recognize which minor character you are playing. 
such as a hat, coat, sash, belt or necklace is usually enough. 
pattern, like an accent, is at least as useful. Remember that th 
something that you can put on and take off quickly, since you may end up having 
to switch between several minor characters in an evening’s story. Your extra(s) 
should be enjoyable to play. During the middle of a story, you may find that you and 
the Narrators have little to do. You then have a chance to play your bit parts just 
for fun. Go a little wild. Try to provide some comic relief if you feel the game is 
Each character you introduce needs to have an easily identifiable mark so 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


urself. If you’re not having fun, even if 
portant thing to remember w 
tor assistance. Furthermore, a shortage 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


is a number of characters to throw into the adventure. Simply introduce a character 
who has the tools to help solve the problem, but for a price. 
Prolonging play time is a little more tricky than reducing it. Prolonging play 
time means prolonging the story, but if the story is complete, you have to make up 
new events in the spot. However, instead of creating an entirely new plot, you 
might be able to extend the “finished” story by going on past its logical conclusion. 
Extending stories works very well if you have a group of Narrators who are flexible, 
creative and who like to work “on the run.” If you foresee the story ending early, 
there are ways ofprolonging it by distracting players. Essentially, you can introduce 
subplots in order to pull characters off the beaten path. If you have a chance, work 
out one or two subplots for every story. Try not to overuse any particular devices 
for prolonging a story, or people will get bored, but an ever-new batch of red 
herrings can prove amusing. The best way to slow players down is to present them 
with something new. Bring in a Big Evil Nasty Thing (B.E.N.T.), or have the local 
hengeyokai threaten, and you can be certain that the linear plot will be set aside 
in the face of the incipient threat. 
One of the more unusual tricks to use while improvising is to create a 
events with no obvious explanation. Then listen to the explanations your p 
propose and choose one to be the case, or base your explanation on the theory you 
like best. While this tactic may seem cheesy, some absolutely amazing stories can 
be developed this way. 
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, the Storyteller and Narrators 
control over what occurs in the story. While you can often predi 
to know where a story might lead, things never work out as plann 
a tendency to ignore old goals, creating new plot lines without a 
for your hours of preparation and cunningly laid plans. 
While such situations can be disconcerting, it’s not always ab 
players to improvise. Unforeseen plot turns are, in fact, what M 
is all about. The trick is to use what the players give you, inste 
them. If players generate new plots, you can continue them in the next s 
providing you with new material on which to build. If you let players run with what 
they come up with, your story may go in entirely unexpected - 
but rewarding - 
directions. While the story may go off on a tangent, headed toward no foreseeable 
conclusion, you can usually apply finesse to work things out. The hardest part is 
knowing when to say “no” or when to stop destructive subplots in their tracks. The 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


let it run its course. 
. 
-1 
r 
1 1  
. 
bpth to the story, entertains people and 
As with all things, though, people can 
ion. I ne roilowing are some signs indicating that events 
s the best sign of all. 
rtant items or clues ar 
limitations on this sort of approach. Use a plbt hammer too often, and players will 
feel that they’re being controlled too tightly. Use it too seldom, and characters can 
run amuck. 
Good uses of the plot hammer include killing off problem characters, intro- 
ducing a powerful outsider who’ll force characters to cease pointless internal 
squabbling, bringing in an overwhelming threat that dictates that everyone work 
together to stop it or stopping the game until you’ve had time to regroup. Also, the 
downtime will allow you to introduce plot elements via email or conversations 
with players that will serve to prevent recurrences of trouble situations. 
Lariw b o w  rm Lavv 
It’s your responsibility to ensure that players are not a hazard to others, 
including people who are not involved in the game. It is mandatory that the normal 
rules of social interaction be strictly adhered to. Most players will probably work 
with you in this regard. However, from time to time, there are those who prove 
disruptive to other players and the environment where the game is being played. 
This disruption often occurs by accident. However, there may be instances when 
players get out of hand on purpose. If such a situation presents itself, it’s not 
considered bad taste to remove the offender from your game. I t  is, after all, your 
game and your creation. The integrity of your game should be preserved for the 
enjoyment of other players. The integrity of the game should also be upheld in the 
minds of those who do not play or understand Mind’s Eye Theatre. 
RESOLMW brtqum- 
As Storyteller (and to a lesser degree as a Narrator), you have final word in any 
dispute that may arise between players. It is your responsibility to maintain peace 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


disruption to the story, they may have to be put on hold and dealt with after the 
night’s session. And remember, no single individual is bigger than the game. If 
someone becomes a distraction to the other players, you are perfectly within your 
rights to suspend or even to banish that player from the game. 
J W 4 Y 9  
p w  
The rules are yours to use and abuse as you see fit. The novelist Richard Bach 
once said, “Argue for your limitations, and sure enough, they’re yours.” Do not 
limit yourself to this set of rules. Your concept of the way Laws ofthe East should 
be played may change constantly. Bend or break the rules to your liking. The rules 
serve the story; the story does not serve the rules. 
If you come to a situation that isn’t covered by the rules, don’t panic - 
improvise. Improvising rules involves nothing more than applying common sense 
to a situation. Don’t be afraid of going against the grain in such cases. Just do what 
makes the most sense for your story and your characters, and things will work out 
fine. After all, if it comes down to a question of rules versus story, story should win 
every time. 
6mFX I D E M  
If you’ve never run an Eastern story before, 
to develop. The typical action-adventure plots 
quite work, but neither do many of the plots you migh 
game. In fact, there are millions of possible Middle 
chronicles of all shapes and sizes. Here is a quick list 
imagination. Start with setting, and look at wh 
game’s setting in the area and time you’ve chosen fo 
how Kuei-jin might be involved in what’s going on. 
history of the land to decide how it might be ch 
chronicle. Smaller chronicles need to be tightly fo 
complex plots that allow players to interact with 
Narrator at every elbow. Plots can even be run with all the players as mortals, j 
learning of the Kuei-jin menace, and most demon-hunters demand interest 
stories that a very fine balance of challenge and feasibility. Here are a few 
suggestions to start you thinking: 
A Kuei-jin deeply involved with a ruthless triad finds out that his favorite 
young cousin wishes to join the ranks of its enforcers. Can the Kuei-jin stop his 
Or, come up with a story idea, choose a site to locate it, an 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


perienced coterie of 
hantry in a powerfu 
a. The Kuei-jin must take action to 
rm, 
but the mortal parronof the arts 
n in the area, from mightiest Kuei-jin to 
lest of mortal enemies will be no easy task. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


TiimSqn 
After killing 
a spider, how lonely I feel 
in the cold of night. 
- 
Masaoka Shiki (haiku) 
Not all mortal witch-hunters seek to destroy every single shen they find. 
Rather, some remember that all things have a place under Heaven, and they seek 
only to correct those that stray from their appointed path. Of'course, many Kuei- 
jin in the Fifth Age forget their holy mission to battle the Yama Kings and indulge 
their darkest whims, feeling above punishment when it comes to taking whatever 
they wish from the mortals around them. That means that these lonely hunters are 
more pressed than ever to keep the Kuei-jin in line. Fortunately, if there are any 
mortals up to the challenge, the Shih are just such warriors. 
Founded by Yi, a Chinese warrior-mage during the Age of Legends, the Shih 
are solitary hunters who are drawn from the ranks of mortals touched by the hand 
of the supernatural at some time in their past. Many are orphans of one kind of shen 
rampage or another, although the mentors who choose new Shih are careful to 
temper revenge with proper discipline to avoid needless deaths in the field. Shih 
train for a minimum of 15 years, during which time they are required to master a 
variety of subjects ranging from martial arts and weapon combat to occult lore and 
courtly etiquette. They also learn special techniques to channel their personal Chi 
reserves and otherwise hone their bodies to levels of perfection beyond the dreams 
of most mortals. For their part, the Shih know that while their purpose may be 
S/L€NTK!!YS o-Burur= 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


honorable under Heaven, it is seldom a welcome intrusion, and therefore, they 
must be ready for the worst the shen can throw at them. Traveling alone, as is their 
ancient custom, only toughens this resolve, since they know the chances of any 
kind of reinforcements arriving are slim at best. When they are finally released from 
their master’s side, having studied the shen firsthand and trained exhaustively for 
nearly two decades, the Shih are more than capable opponents for even experi- 
enced supernatural creatures. More than one cocky kyonshi has met Final Death at 
the hands of one of these nomads after refusing to change his arrogant ways. 
For their part, most Shih really do try to give shen that they see as out of line 
a chance to redeem themselves. While they do not bother to parlay with chih-mei 
and other mindless abominations, Shih often put themselves in a great deal of 
danger in order to redeem a particular shen before resorting to combat, if they feel 
there is a even a slight chance of success. Of course, once sentence has been 
pronounced, the Shih are grimly efficient in carrying it out, no matter the cost to 
themselves. Shih are also typically a hardy and pragmatic lot who will go from 
nobly defending apeasant village from a rampaging chih-mei to picking the pockets 
of the dead monster in order to pay for their next meal. They justif, their way of 
life by the sacred charge they uphold, but they are also worldly enough to realize 
that generous rewards for their work will be few and far between, and so they do 
what they must to survive. Considering that many communities in this day and age 
do their best to forget about the monsters walking among them, including the 
hunters who vanquish them, the Shih are seldom motivated by a desire for fame 
and praise anyway. Instead, the Shih live and die between the cracks of modem 
society in the hopes that their efforts help restore some balance to the grand 
expanse of Heaven. 
Shih discipline offers several tangible benefits to those who choose to adhere 
to its strict training regimen: the Qiao (the Chinese word for “bridge”). Qiao are 
supernatural powers that help balance the scales between the dread powers of the 
shen and the hunters who dare stalk them. 
QiaOo-lSrmU 
Using Yang Chi, the Shih may prepare special prayers on silk or paper, which 
then become capable of hindering and harming demons in various ways. These 
prayers may be prepared hours in advance of their use, and they retain their magic 
for up to one day. Unless otherwise noted, each prayer requires one Yang Trait and 
15 minutes per level of the Qiao to create. The prayers may be thrown at any target 
the Shih can see (including invisible foes sensed through various Qiao powers), 
and once thrown, the prayers fly around obstacles-making all but complete cover 
useless-andotherwisedefy physics toreach their target. Hittingatargetwith the 
prayers still requires a successful Melee Challenge, however. 
Note: Most of these powers must be dodged if the target wishes to avoid their 
effect. In other words, some speed- or agility-related Trait (such as Quick or Agile) 
must be bid if the target wishes to defend against them. Traits such as Enduring or 
Brawny do not function as a defense against these powers, although of course the 
target may choose to attack in response instead of merely defending. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ight 
Shihdonot get tochoose Abilitiesduringcharactercreation; 
rather, 
they receive the following Abilities: Martial Arts x 2, Meke x 2, Dodge x 2, 
Occult x 2 and Suruiuaf. Any additional Abilities desired must be purchased 
with Free Traits during the Merit/ Flaw portion of character creation. (It is 
highly recommended that Shih intensify their combat training as much as 
possible. They are on their own, after all, and the shen are the deadliest of 
foes.) Shih may also begin play with more than two levels of Martial Arts, 
due to their focused training. Thus, Shih characters start with extremely 
honed talents, but at a cost to player flexibility. 
Shih automatically receive the Background: Mentor x 3. 
All Shih begin play with one level in each of the following Chi 
Powers: Ruu, of the Mo Kung, Qiao of the 1 Shen and Qiao of the Yu An. 
Additional levels cost four Free Traits during character creation, and the 
following number of Experience Traits apply once play begins: three for 
Basic Qiao, five for Intermediate and eight for Advanced. 
As players will no doubt have noticed by now, Shih are extremely 
strong for beginning characters. That unbalance is due to two factors. First, 
all Shih have spent a great deal of time being trained by masters well-versed 
in the arts of demon-hunting, and (more importantly) Shih characters are 
intended to work alone. Even in a larger troupe, the Shih is expected to carry 
his own weight, tend his own wounds and otherwise avoid any needless 
personal entanglements. That life may seem very cool and rugged at first, 
but loneliness should begin to take its toll as time goes by and the Shih 
realizes some of the disadvantages of going solo. Of course, Shih aren’t 
foolish. If taking down a particular shen requires teamwork, they’ll play 
along, but players who always try to band together like a bunch of kung-fu 
Super Friends bent on kicking Kuei-jin butt are doing their characters a 
grave disservice. The Shih have walked their solitary roads for millennia, 
d they see no reason to change their ways now. 
Basic 
Celestial Punishment - 
By casting these prayers at his target, the Shih may 
cause demons pain and even injure certain shen. Demons suffer extreme agony 
(two-Trait penalty on all challenges for five minutes), but vampires and wraiths 
also suffer a single aggravated wound. Vampires may attempt to soak this damage 
with a Physical Challenge, but they still suffer pain. Wraiths mav not soak this 
damage, although they may repair it with appropriate Arcanoi. 
Divine Bindings - 
Designed to slow down mighty foes and render weaker 
ones entirely helpless, these prayers shine with eerie green light and expand 
rapidly, entrapping the target shen. On a successful hit, the shen is incapable of any 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


physical action except attempting to break free, and the pain caused by the 
bindings makes using mental powers or Disciplines impossible without the expen- 
diture of a Willpower Trait. Breaking free requires that the shen succeed at three 
Static Physical Challenges, each difficulty six. Only one attempt may be made per 
turn unless the shen possesses some kind of supernatural speed. This power does not 
affect incorporeal beings. 
Intermediate 
Heavenly Flames - 
Upon hitting their target, these prayers burst into 
supernatural blue flames, igniting and inflicting aggravated wounds. This power 
may be soaked with conventional means as well as supernatural ones, but it inflicts 
three levels of aggravateddamage. Furthermore, the target must win or tie a Simple 
Test every turn to try to extinguish the flames ifhe is wearing anything combustible 
(fur counts). The flames inflict one additional aggravated wound every turn that 
they continue to bum. 
Celestial Fires -This power is identical to Heavenly Flames, except that the 
fires caused may only be soaked by supernatural means. 
Advanced 
Heaven’s Thunder - 
This awesome power seldom leaves a demon standing, 
since it vents the very wrath of Heaven in one spectacular display. A Shih who uses 
this power is assured of doing at least some damage to his target, but the cost is 
correspondingly high. Thus, this power is used most sparingly by the demon- 
hunters who know it. These prayers blaze from the Shih‘s hand like lightning once 
cast, seeking out the demon she has chosen, and they hit their target automatically. 
Nothing less than divine intervention can keep these prayers from their target, 
althoughcertain Advancedsupernatural powers might be helpful at the Storyteller’s 
discretion. (This is the wrath of Heaven, after all.) These prayers inflict a base of 
four aggravated wound levels, plus an additional aggravated wound for each Simple 
Test the Shih wins against his target. Compare Mental Traits in the event of ties; 
the first test won by the target ends the challenge. These wounds cannot be soaked, 
but regardless of the outcome of this power, the Shih suffers one unsoakable wound. 
This power costs two Yang Traits. This power has been known to fail if the target 
is innocent of the crimes the Shih believes them guilty of, or it may even rebound 
on wicked Shih who attempt to destroy shen they know to be blameless. 
Q i u  O-MO KUY~ 
The Bridge of the Devil Fighter is a very direct path, but one of the most useful 
considering how often the Shih come to blows with the shen they are sent to 
correct. It grants them a measure ofphysical viability as enemies of the demons, but 
at a great drain on their spiritual reserves. 
Basic 
Steel Skin -The 
Shih undergo many grueling exercises in training, all of 
them designed to toughen their bodies for brutal battles against the shen. By 
spending one Yang Trait, the Shih may gain either one additional Bruised health 
level or the Physical Traits: Tough, Resilient, Enduring for the remainder of the 
scene. Each different use of this power may be used only once per scene. 
Dragon’s Speed - 
Speed is of the essence when battling demonic entities, 
and this power grants the Shih steady hands and lightning reflexes. By spending 
one Yang Trait, the Shih may either gain a pre-emptive action (a la vampiric 
Alanity) or the Physical Traits: Dexterous, Quick, Nimble for the remainder of the 
scene. Each different use of this power may be used only once per scene. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Tiger’s Strength - 
Through sheer force of will, the Shih is able to increase 
his physical strength to match that of the strongest mortal (and many shen). By 
spending one Yang Trait, the Shih gains a free retest on all strength-related 
challenges and the Physical Traitx &amy x 2 and Wiry for the remainder of the scene. 
Celestial Eyes - 
Clearing his mind of all distractions, the Shih may focus his 
senses to detect minute, even virtually nonexistent phenomena. Spending one 
Yang Trait, the Shih gains the Mental Traits: Discerning, Observant, Attentive and 
the Danger Sense Merit (as his senses catch the tiny warning signs around him). The 
Shih also gains a free retest on any Investigation or Enigmas Challenges related to 
sense perception. This power lasts for the remainder of the scene. 
Advanced 
Body ofthe Dragon-Though 
incredibly draining, this potent power allows 
the Shih to boost his body’s capabilities to truly superhuman levels for a time. This 
power costs one Willpower Trait and twoYang Traits to activate, but it doubles the 
Shih‘s Physical Traits for the remainder of the scene. (Bonus Traits due to other 
powers are added after the doubling is calculated, not before.) The Shih also wins 
all ties in Physical Challenges unless his opponent possesses a similar power, in 
which case, the winner is determined normally. Once the scene is over, the Shih 
must rest for several hours before he can do more than walk a few steps, and the 
benefits of this power are reversed until such rest takes place. 
Qtpo OFTHE Xu Aq 
The Bndge ofjade Hamny allows a Shih to resist the “mind tricks” of the shen 
and to see them for what they truly are. At higher levels of mastery, it allows the 
demon-hunter to consult and battle the spirits on their own plane, although such 
methods are as dangerous as they are potentially rewarding. For uses beyond the 
Basic level, the Unseen Master should be present to play the role of the spirits and 
adjudicate any combats or other interactions. A character must carry jade in some 
form to use this Qiao. 
Basic 
Opened Eyes - 
Elegant in its function, this power reveals supernatural 
beings in their true forms. The Shih can see wraiths, perceive hsien and Kuei-jin 
for what they are, even detect hengeyokai in their mortal forms. Simply put, any 
creature that tries to hide its true nature from the Shih is incapable of doing so, and 
the player may ask any other players out of character what type of supernatural 
creature they are (if they are one at all). Note, however, that this power does not 
work against those actively using magic to hide themselves (such as characters 
under the effects of Shrouded Moon or Unseen Presence) or change their shape. This 
power lasts for one scene, and it also renders the character immune to the Delirium 
during that time. 
Divine Perceptions -This power allows the Shih to see into a target’s soul, 
usually to determine if they are lying but also to see if they are possessed by demons 
or otherwise under supernatural influence. Detecting lies requires that the Shih‘s 
player defeat the target in a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of the target’s 
Mental Traits); success tells the character if the target was indeed lying. The Shih 
may also detect possession or other supernatural influence by winning an identical 
Static Mental Challenge. If successful, the Shih‘s player may expend two Mental 
Traits to discern exactly who/ what is responsible for the influence. This power 
costs one Yang Trait, and it lasts for one scene. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Wind Talk - 
By attuning himself to the appropriate Chi force, the Shih 
gains the ability to converse with spirits of that type, although they are under no 
particular compunction to obey him or even hang around if they choose to do 
otherwise. The player must spend one Chi Trait of the type of spirits he wishes to 
overhear (Yin for ghosts, Yang for natural spirits) and concentrate for 30 seconds. 
During that time, the character hears the voices of the spirits growing louder until 
they reach a normal conversational level. As soon as that occurs, the character may 
speak freely with the spirits or simply listen to them as he sees fit. This ability lasts 
for one scene. 
Celestial Window - 
Continuing on the path of spiritual discourse, the Shih 
may now attune himself to one spirit, effectively joining its plane of existence. The 
Shih may touch, hurt, help or fight the spirit as if both of them were in the same 
place, and the spirit may return such treatment in kind. This power affects only the 
Shih in regards to one spirit. Other spirits may not engage him in the same manner 
unless they possess powers of their own to do so. By the same token, the Shih cannot 
follow if the spirit flees the character’s presence. This power costs one Chi Trait of 
the type appropriate to the spirit and lasts for once scene. 
Advanced 
Celestial Doorway - 
This grand but often foolhardy power allows the Shih 
to open himself up to interaction with spirits ofboth the Yin and Yang Worlds. The 
effects are the same as those of Celestial Window, but now the Shih may interact 
with all the spirits in the area from both realms, despite the fact that he remains 
on the physical plane of existence. Of course, the spirits may interact with him 
right back, and considering the enmity many of them have toward the Shih, this 
power often results in a swift demise unless the demon-hunter is extremely careful. 
The doorway requires the expenditure of one Yin Trait and one Yang Trait, and 
it lasts for one scene or until the Shih chooses to close it (which is often very quickly). 
The Bridge ofthe Phoenix is a simple tool in the Shih‘s employ, but a powerful 
and useful one, for it is the way of healing. With so many foes that deliver so many 
kinds of devastating attacks, the Shih cannot wait for or trust modem medicine to 
cure their many injuries. They rely instead on this Bridge and other natural means 
of healing. It should be noted that by spending Chi, a character is essentially 
expending her life-force to rebuild her body. It is much easier and more relaxing 
to heal the damage done by spending several Chi Traits than it would be to heal 
the damage done by a bakemono’s flaming breath. It should also be noted that this 
Bridge leaves scars in its wake, which most Shih are very proud of, considering 
them a mark of their ability to survive. 
Qia 0 m - q  
Basic 
Barriet uf Pain - 
By spending one Yin Trait, the Shih renders herself immune 
to pain for the remainder of the scene. The character suffers no wound penalties, and 
she may continue to act normally until she is reduced below Incapacitated. 
Theclosing Wound-Channeling 
Yin Chi through her body, the character 
may repair some of the damage done to her. This power does not function on burns, 
severed nerves or broken bones, but it will heal all other wounds as well as poisons 
and minor diseases. The Shih must spend one Yin Trait, in order to heal two non- 
aggravated health levels. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Spiritual Healing - 
Now the character is capable of healing even broken 
bones or severed nerves, although bums, acid wounds or damage caused by direct 
energy/ Chi attacks are still beyond the scope of this power. This ability takes at 
least five minutes of concentration and rest to use, and costs two Yin Traits. Once 
used, the Shih heals four non-aggravated health levels. At the Narrator’s discre- 
tion, this healing may also remove Lame Negative Traits and other baneful results 
of crippling attacks. 
Escape from Death - 
All manner of wounds may be healed through use of 
this power, even bums or the ravages of supernatural foes. This process is efficient 
but extremely time-consuming - 
requiring one hour per health level to be healed 
- 
but even aggravated wounds may be healed by use of this power. The Shih‘s 
player must succeed in a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of the number 
of health levels she wishes to heal and spend three Y in Traits to activate this power. 
Once underway, the character must eat enormous amounts of food to replace the 
energy used in the healing process. If the Shih is disturbed in any serious way 
(combat and other adventuring are straight out), the process ends, and any 
remaining damage remains unhealed. 
Advanced 
Flames ofthe Phoenix - 
Shih with this ability may effectively rebuild their 
bodies on a cellular level, curing the effects of cancer, radiation exposure, severe 
trauma and even old age. Few of the Shih adept in this knowledge readily attempt 
it, however, for it places an enormous drain on their bodies that can easily kill those 
not in perfect health and possessed of perfect discipline. The Shihmust spend three 
Y in Traits, three Yang Traits and two permanent Willpower Traits to invoke Flames 
of the Phoenix, and she must succeed at a Static Physical Challenge against a 
difficulty of nine Traits (this challenge may be retested with the Occult Ability). 
Failure means all the listed costs are paid, but nothing happens. Success indicates 
that the character is rebuilt from the ground up - 
cancer and other ill effects 
vanish, scars fade, fingerprints change, retinal structures alter, bones shift and the 
character may even experience a change in height. In essence, the character is 
rebom into a whole new body. Obviously, the player should adopt some new garb 
or descriptive tag to indicate the change in her character’s appearance, since it is 
next to impossible for even those closest to her to recognize her for who she truly 
is. F h s  ofthe Phoenix takes one sessiodday of uninterrupted meditation toperform. 
Many Shih delight in presenting an apparently helpless foe to their opponent, 
and then smashing her with a surprise attack or sudden Chi surge. In this respect, 
the Bridge of the Serpent serves them well, as it makes a Shih even deadlier with his 
bare hands than most foes are when armed to the teeth. 
qiroo-sni 
Basic 
Thousand Fists - 
Spending one Yang Trait, the character inflicts additional 
damage equal to his permanent Martial Arts rating with all successful Martial Arts 
attacks for the duration of one turn. Thus, the Shih is often able to deliver blows 
as devastating as those from a firearm or melee weapon with just a flurry of punches. 
The character may declare this power’s use at any time before the outcome of a 
challenge is resolved. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Spear Hand - 
Using special focusing techniques, the Shih may set one hand 
afire with blazing Chi en&&. As long as &e Shih attacks with that appendage, all 
damage dicted is aggravated. This power costs one Yang Trait and lasts for one scene. 
Intermediate 
BumingGhosts- Summoning his Chi around him in ashining golden aura, 
the Shih becomes capable of striking wraiths and other spirits just as if they were 
Embodied or Materialized, although they must use such powers themselves if they 
wish to return the favor. This power costs one Yang Trait and one Physical Trait 
to enact, and it lasts for one scene. Note that the Shih‘s body does not actually 
strike the spirits, the aura surrounding him does. 
Steel M y -  Suffusing his essence with Yin energies, the character tightens 
his muscles to an inhuman degree, making his flesh like steel. He becomes tougher 
to harm and the blows he inflicts do amazing amounts of damage. This ability costs 
two Yin Traits and lasts for one scene, during which time, the Shih gains two 
Bruised health levels and inflicts aggravated damage with all Brawl or Martial Arts 
attacks. 
Advanced 
Thousand Swords - 
Channeling a surge of Chi within his body, the Shih 
focuses inward for a moment before unleashing a vicious flurry of strikes that split 
skin asunder and sound like steel striking against flesh. This ability costs two Yin 
Traits and two Yang Traits to activate, and while in this state, the character 
delivers aggravated damage with all Martial Arts attacks and gains two additional 
attacks per turn. Once the scene is over, the Shih is exhausted, and he must rest 
for a considerable amount of time (Storyteller’s decision on how long is needed). 
Until such rest is attained, the Shih is reduced to no more than one Physical Trait. 
He also loses all ties on Physical Challenges. 
The Bndge ofthe Mirror is a vital part of a demon-hunter’s arsenal, as it protects 
her Chi and allows her to manipulate the Chi of her enemies. Since no Shih wants 
to risk being contaminated by such energies, however, many uses of this Bridge 
involve a weapon of some kind. Traditionalty, this weapon was an eight-sided 
metal mirror, but all manner of weapons or other items may be used, especially if 
they contain jade somewhere on them. 
Basic 
Frozen River -This 
ability allows the Shih to defend her life-force against 
theft by one of the shen. With the expenditure of one Yang Trait, all such attempts 
are three Traits down for the remainder of the scene (including attempts to feed 
on the character by such Chi parasites as Kuei-jin). 
Stolen Serpent - 
Using this potent but dangerous technique, the Shih may 
attempt to redirect aranged supernatural attack back at the enemy who cast it. The 
Shih must spend a Yang Trait and declare that she is redirecting the attack, then 
engage her foe in the appropriate challenge (the Shih uses her Physical Traits in 
this challenge, no matter what might normally be required). The Shih may retest 
this challenge with the Occult Ability. Success means the attack has been 
redirected, and the player may make a Firearms Challenge immediately to attempt 
to strike her foe with the redirected attack. Failure, however, means the Shih 
suffers the full damage/ effects of the attack, against which no soak possible. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Celestial Jjarrier - 
This handy talent allows the Shih to block a shen from 
gaining Chi for a short time, and it’s an ideal way to press the advantage against a 
tired foe. The player must spend a Yang Trait and defeat the shen’s player in a 
Willpower Challenge (noTraits risked). Success means the target is unable to gain 
Chi for five minutes, although he may spend any Chi he still has normally. 
Clutch of the Wan Kuei - 
By executing a special strike with her chosen 
weapon, the Shih may attempt to steal some of the target’s Chi, which is then 
absorbed into the weapon itself. The Shih cannot make use of this stolen Chi, but 
neithercan the target. To use this ability, the player must spend one Yang Trait and 
make a number of Static Mental Challenges against six Traits; she may continue 
to challenge until she loses. For each successful challenge, one Chi Trait of the 
character’s choice is stolen from the target of her next successful Meke attack. 
Advanced 
Bite of the Mu - 
This rare technique allows the Shih to steal Chi from her 
opponent and use it in an attack against him. The Shih must first defeat her 
opponent in a number of Mental Challenges (no Traits risked); the Shih may 
continue to test until she loses. For each successful challenge, one Chi Trait is 
stolen from her target. With the next successful Melee attack against that target, 
the Shih may expend the stolen Chi to do additional levels of aggravated damage 
on a one-for-one basis. This power is as addictive as it is devastating, though, and 
demon-hunters who use it on a regular basis risk awakening their Po. The Shih 
must spend twoYang Traits andsacrifice one Humanity Trait to use this power, and 
it lasts for the duration of the combat. 
Qi- 
0- 
b w q  4 ~ 9  
The Bridge of the Dragon Rukr was created in response to the many “mind 
tricks” of the shen, and it allows a wily Shih to conquer enemies through 
intimidation and domination rather than raw physical prowess. For obvious 
reasons, it is very popular with older Shih whose bodies have begun to fail them, 
or physically slight Shih who enjoy beating the shen at their own game. 
Basic 
Eyes ofthe Dragon - 
An intimidated opponent is defeated before a single 
blow is struck, and Shih who use this power are capable of stopping many fights 
before they begin. The character must stare straight at his foe, spend one Yin Trait 
and defeat his opponent in a Social Challenge. Lesser opponents are cowed and 
even superior foes are taken aback at such ferocity, but the end result is the same. 
Those defeated by this power must count out 15 seconds during which time they 
are effectively stunned and may take no offensive action (though they may defend 
themselves if need be). The Shih may use this power as a means of Fair Escape in 
some situations. 
Dark Retlection - 
This ability forces one of the shen to realize the conse- 
quences of his actions, and it is used primarily as a means of reinforcing the justice 
of the Shih on errant supematurals. The Shih must defeat his target in a Mental 
Challenge and spend one Yin Trait to use this power, and those so defeated are two 
Traits down on all aggressive actions for the remainder of the scene as the weight 
of their actions bears down on them. Furthermore, players of characters affected by 
this power should roleplay out the guilt and uncertainty associated with it to the 
best of their ability. This power can lead even virtuous characters to spend a tough 
night searching their own soul. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Haunted Eyes - 
With this power, the Shih is able to torment the Hungry 
Dead and Restless Dead alike with memories of the time they spent in the Yomi 
World. The character must defeat his target with a Mental Challenge and spend 
one Yin Trait. Success means the target is flooded with the worst memories of her 
existence and cannot take any aggressive action for the remainder of the scene, 
although this power is immediately nullified if the target is attacked. Kuei-j in who 
fall victim to this ability must test immediately for wave soul as well. Needless to 
say, no character under the effects of this power is much fun to be around, and those 
with appropriate derangements (Catatonia, Depression, etc.) will find their de- 
rangements especially active during this time. This punishment is one of the 
gravest of the Shih, reserved for reminding the appropriate shen why they are 
so tormented. 
Voice of the Yama Kings - 
Shih may use this ability to command a spirit to 
perform one task. This task must be something the spirit can do, although it need 
not be something the spirit would normally like to do. Spirits may not be 
commanded to destroy themselves, though they can be told to attack others. 
Above all, the command must be simple and direct, and most Shih are very careful 
in choosing how to word their commands, since most spirits will follow only the 
letter and not the intent of the order. The player must spend a Yin Trait and a Yang 
Trait and defeat the spirit in a Social Challenge versus the spirit’s permanent 
Willpower for the command to take hold. Obviously, the Unseen Master should 
be present to test on behalf of the spirit and to record the letter of the arrangement, 
if necessary. 
Advanced 
Divine Ordinance - 
By summoning the righteous wrath of Heaven itself, as 
well as all the rage felt by fallen Shih and past victims of supernatural exploitation, 
the Shih may attempt to drive the shen from the area through by inspiring the fear 
of Heaven itself in them. To invoke the Divine Ordinance, the Shih’s player must 
spend two Yang Traits and a Willpower Trait. Once that is done, all those in the 
area, including shen, suffer an effect identical to the Delirium (see Laws of the Wild 
p. ZOO). For those of you without Laws of the Wild, assume that all the characters 
in the area flee in terror unless they are extremely strong-willed, and that even 
those who remain are extremely nervous and cautious when it comes to dealing 
with the Shih in question. 
Qrao 0-M-q 
The Bridge ofDreams is invaluable to the Shih, for it allows them to heal their 
hurting spirits and cleanse their minds of the taint and anguish that comes with 
hunting demons for a living. This Qiao is largely a matter of roleplaying, and since 
so many rich opportunities for in-depth gaming exist in this Bridge, a Storyteller 
should be quick to capitalize on them and make sure players realize the emotional 
toll this power extracts even as it helps purge a character’s soul. 
Basic 
Balance ofthe Spirit - 
With a successful Mental Challenge, the character 
can discern a target’s internal Chi flow and detect any imbalances or other Chi 
afflictions. The Shih also learns how to correct such imbalances. Meditation is 
often the answer (one day of uninterrupted meditation corrects one point of Chi 
imbalance), but herbs, chants and other means may also be used. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Focus ofthe Mind - 
Battling the excesses of the suDernatura1 world takes a 
heavy toll on a Shih‘s resolve, andthis technique allows ier to refresh her mental 
reserves. By reaching a relaxed state and spending one Yang Trait, the Shih may 
make a Static Mental Challenge with the Meditation Ability against six Traits. 
Success means one Willpower Trait is regained. 
Intermediate 
Nightmare Exorcism - 
Some Shih turn to vices in order to quell the pain 
of their difficult memories, but Shih using this power take a more direct approach, 
erasing the emotional significance of a problem memory and thus (hopefully) 
removing the mental scars it causes. The player must make two Static Mental 
Challenges with the Meditation Ability to use this power, the first to detect the 
problem memory and the second to remove its burden; both these challenges are 
against adifficulty of eight Traits. Successfully completing both of these challenges 
and expending a Yang Trait renders the memory harmless, although the character 
must relive it in vivid detail before it finally leaves her. Obviously, the effects of this 
ability are largely a matter of roleplaying, although the Storyteller may rule that 
this power can be used to reduce the cost of buying off a Flaw such as Nightmares 
or Phobia. A player may even cure a derangement attached to a memory by 
spending a Willpower Trait in addition to the Yang Trait required. 
Self-Exorcism - 
Sometimes a demon is able to get past the strict mental 
defenses of a Shih and inhabit her body. By invoking a psychic contest with the 
invading force, this power gives the demon-hunter a second chance to throw off 
such a malevolent influence before it inflicts any further harm. The Shih must 
make a Mental Challenge (no Traits risked) against the demon’s P’o or Rage rating 
and spend two Yang Traits. Success means the demon is cast out, while failure 
means the demon holds fast. 
Advanced 
Mental Dominion- With this potent talent, the Shih is able to fully restore 
her Willpower and even weaken her P’o (if it is active). The character must fast 
and meditate uninterrupted for a full week to use this power, during which time, 
she contemplates the sins she has committed and the necessity of committing those 
sins. Once these preparations are complete, the player must make a Static Mental 
Challenge against nine Traits and spend two Yang Traits and two Yin Traits. If 
successful, all Willpower Traits are regained, and the character’s effective P‘o 
rating is reduced by one. 
Qim onmZw Mko 
The Bmlge of the Resilient Cat allows Shih to focus their Chi for movement and 
defense. Note: Many uses of these powers permit a character to travel to exotic 
locales or otherwise make movements that aren’t quite normal. In most cases, a 
time-out should be called as characters move to new positions, and players should 
never forget the rules governing Mind’s Eye Theatre when it comes to where they 
wish to stand (or how they plan on getting there). 
Basic 
Cloud Walking - 
By spending one Yang Trait and attuning himself to the 
winds, the Shih is able to move just slightly above the ground. This method of 
travel leaves no tracks or scent to mark his passing, and allows the Shih to travel 
in complete silence. All attempts to track him incur a three-Trait penalty at least, 
and his silent movement might even grant him surprise or Fair Escape in combat 
under the right circumstances. This power lasts for one scene. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Water Treading - 
Using this versatile power, the Shih is capable of treading 
easily on unstable surfaces such as water, fog or quicksand and climbing any surface, 
even just the leaves of a tree. After spending aYang Trait, the character may travel 
at a normal rate of movement across any unstable surface, and he can climb any 
surface without penalty. This power lasts for one scene, although successful attacks 
or other blatant distractions cancel this ability. 
Intermediate 
Wind Strike - 
Combining basic martial arts techniques with an extra boost 
of Chi energy, the Shih can use an attacker’s own momentum to throw her 
incredible distances. The player must declare that he is throwing his opponent 
with a Martial Arts challenge and spend a Yang Trait. Success means that he may 
throw his opponent up to 75 feet away, inflicting two health levels of bashing 
damage on top of the regular damage of the throw. A time-out should be called 
while the target travels to her new position. 
Mountain Stance - 
Redirecting the force of incoming attacks into the 
ground itself, the Shih is able to avoid immense amount of punishment as long as 
the floor holds out. The player must make a Static Physical Challenge and spend 
one Yang Trait. Success means that all incoming health levels of damage from one 
attack are redirected into the ground at the character’s feet. This tactic is normally 
safe, although performing this technique on wooden surfaces or loose soil can have 
unpleasant effects when it collapses beneath the character’s feet. A Narrator 
should be consulted if a question as to the amount of punishment a particular area 
of ground can take arises. 
Advanced 
Celestial Wind - 
With this incredible ability, the Shih is able to rob one 
incoming object - 
attacker, speeding car, bullet - 
of its momentum and perhaps 
even send it back the way it came. The player must spend one Yang Trait and 
succeed at a Static Mental Challenge against six Traits. Success means the object 
is halted immediately and the Shih takes no damage (if any was to be inflicted). 
With the expenditure of two Mental Traits, the Shih may even send the object 
back at the same speed it was approaching, inflicting a minimum of two health 
levels of damage if it should strike something behind it. Due to the bizarre physics 
involved in this power, players may want a Narrator to be present to sort out what 
objects are flying which way and what effect that has. 
& W M h M i j Q U E S  
M o  % Kuwq 
(DW~ju~qwryr) 
Beyond simple uses of the Martial Arts Ability, the Shih have developed 
several potent techniques in order to disarm and disable their shenopponents. Each 
beginning Shih character may select one of these techniques, and an additional 
one is earned for each level of Martial Arts beyond those they begin with. A list of 
these techniques and their special benefits/ drawbacks follows, along with the 
necessary Chi cost (if any). Also listed with each technique is the number of Traits 
down a character attempting the maneuver is considered to be. This penalty occurs 
in order to simulate the difficulty of the move in question, since the most potent 
techniques are also the most difficult to execute. 
These are but the most common and well-known techniques. Storytellers 
should feel free to come up with more as they see fit, although players must still 
receive Storyteller permission before purchasing a particular special technique. 
When creating such maneuvers, remember that they stem from the experience the 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Shih have accumulated fighting the shen over the centuries; they are not just tools 
to give players an unbeatable edge. The Faerie Crushing Fists technique may sound 
good, but if all it does is allow Shih to pound unopposed on the hsien in the 
chronicle, it’s probably not a good idea to allow it. Always use game balance as the 
ultimate guideline. If any or all of these special techniques threaten to upset the 
game too much, remove them. (The Shih are quite strong enough without them, 
after all!) 
Snout Strike - 
The shapeshifting hengeyokai all have a particular weak 
spot, typically in the nose area, where many nerve ganglia are focused in one spot. 
Targeting that spot and executing a successful strike, the Shih can place the target 
in a great deal of pain, thus distracting him and keeping him off-balance. The Shih 
must declare this technique and make asuccessful attack. Not only does the target 
suffer the normal damage, but the intense pain puts him down two Traits for the 
next three combat turns as well. The only downside is that excessive use of this 
technique may cause the target to frenzy, at which point the benefit of the 
technique is lost. 
Traits Down: 2 
Chi Breaker - 
This move, used almost exclusively against the Kuei-jin, 
allows the Shih to disrupt the natural Chi flow in his target. The Shih must declare 
that he is using the technique, spend a Y in Trait and then strike his target. He need 
not cause any damage (though often he chooses to); he needs only touch the 
vampire to be affected. If successful, the Shih‘s player may spend a variable number 
of Mental Traits. The Kuei-jin cannot spend any Chi Traits for as many turns as 
the number of Mental Traits spent. This technique has saved more than one 
demon-hunter from certain death, as their undead foe retreated to regroup or lost 
their winning edge at a crucial moment. This attack inflicts normal damage in 
addition to its disruptive benefits. 
Traits Down: 2 
Jaw Hammer - 
Many shen use their teeth as weapons, and this technique is 
designed to remove just such an attack from the shen’s arsenal. It is dangerous at 
best, however. By doing so, the Shih leaves himself open to retribution the next 
turn, so most get it right on the first try. The Shih must declare the technique and 
strike his foe precisely right. Not only must he score a successful hit, but he must 
win an additional Simple Test to actually break the jaw correctly. Failure on the 
Simple Test means the target may still bite normally, albeit at a one-Trait penalty 
due to the odd alignment of its teeth. Success means the target may not use biting 
attacks until the damage is fully regenerated. If the Shih fails on the initial attack, 
he cannot use the Dodge Ability the next turn - 
his positioning makes him too 
vulnerable to his opponent. This attack inflicts the standard amount of damage, 
whether the jaw is actually broken or not. 
Traits Down: 2 
Fading Light Strike - 
The Shih must use a long weapon such as a sword or 
staff for this technique. Simple hand-to-hand combat will not suffice, as the risk 
of infection by dark energy is too great. This potent technique allows the Shih to 
steal the energies of his target and use those forces against her - 
Chi is taken from 
Kuei-jin, while Rage is taken from hengeyokai, and so on. This attack does not 
inflict any physical damage, but the metaphysical effects can be devastating. The 
Shih essentially removes one Trait of the appropriate energy from his target for 
every level of damage he would inflict normally with the weapon. Thus, if the Shih 
strikes a Kuei-jin with this technique while using a sword that typically inflicts 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


three levels of damage, three Chi Traits are removed instead. Note that Shih 
himself cannot use the energy, but at least his foe can’t either! This technique 
requires an exceptional knowledge of the target to be successful: The Shih must 
possess at least three levels each of Medicine and Occult to perform this maneuver, 
and each effort costs the Shih himself one Yang Trait. 
Traits Down: 3 
he/Cripple Fighting - 
Many older Shih disguise themselves as crippled, 
wizened beggars, and even the best of hunters occasionally finds himself knocked 
on his butt or otherwise fighting from a bad spot. Shih with this training can spend 
a Willpower Trait to ignore any penalties arising from such inauspicious circum- 
stances for the remainder of the scene, allowing them to ignore their apparent 
disadvantage. While they cannot ignore wound penalties or such severe flaws as 
blindness or multiple missing limbs, they may fight normally from prone positions 
and ignore any hm, 
Decrepit or similar Negative Traits they might possess. Such 
is the origin of legends of one-armed or one-legged Shih who still somehow manage 
to defeat scores of Kuei-jin in a single melee. Such tales may still be a bit 
exaggerated, but trained warriors can learn to overcome amazing flaws if the need 
is great. 
Stealing Eagle Wings - 
Very few Shih are skilled enough to pull this 
technique off, but those that are can be counted among the most frightening and 
effective demon-hunters in the Middle Kingdom. Using an instinctive grasp of 
pressure holds and lightning-fast reflexes, the Shih may grab hold of ashen who is 
unleashing a burst of supernatural speed and essentially ride the enemy’s own 
momentum, allowing the Shih to keep up with his opponent step for blazing step. 
A Shih must have at least five levels of Martial Arts and four levels of Akrmess to 
perform this technique, and he must have scored a successful grappling strike 
against his opponent on the turn in question. If his opponent then chooses to use 
extra actions that turn (Blackwind, Rage, Celerity, etc.), the Shih may respond by 
spending a Yang Trait to activate this technique. Essentially, the Shih is then 
considered to gain an equal number of extra actions in response, povlded he 
continuestoholdontohistargetanddoesn’tattackanyoneelse. Inotherwords, theshih 
may not only continue to try to injure his opponent during the course of the extra 
actions, but he receives a one-Trait bonus for every extra action he “steals” in this 
fashion. Normally, characters without extra actions can only soak the attacks - 
they can’t dodge or harm the attacker. Thus, if a Shih with this technique grabs 
hold of a hengeyokai and it spends three Rage Traits for extra actions that turn, the 
Shih receives a one-Trait bonus on the first action, two Traits on the second, and 
so on as he turns his opponent’s movements against him. Smart opponents will 
attempt to disentangle themselves completely from the Shih, thus negating this 
technique, but few are thinking that clearly at the time. They only know that the 
faster they move, the more control the Shih seems to have over them! 
Traits Down: None. Using this technique is considered a reflexive response, 
not an action. 
While the Shih try to maintain the purity of purpose that Heaven intended 
for the shen, there are others who see the supernatural as without place in this or 
any other world, and who do their best to ensure that the Unseen World is burned 
away wherever they can find it. Strike Force Zero is just such an organization, 
dedicated to ridding the world of the supernatural menace that has perpetrated a 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


campaign of terror and genocide since the beginning of recorded history. Where 
the Shih use long hours of training and meditation to even the odds between 
themselves and the shen, Strike Force Zero takes a speedier route. Agents are 
modified with cutting-edge technology, using bionic implants and other artificial 
enhancements to create deceptively ordinary-looking humans who can actually 
punch through walls, send radio transmissions with a thought or hide a plasma 
cannon in their forearm. While their methods are often quite brutal and their 
attrition rate shockingly high, Strike Force Zero never lacks for recruits in these 
desperate days. Once their eyes are opened to the hidden world of the shen and their 
various evils, few mortals can turn down the duty of riddq the world of such monsters. 
Conceived of and headed by Geichin Okamoto, a former Japanese secret 
agent whose family had a long tradition of ninja warfare, Strike Force Zero is an 
ultra-secret agency within the Japanese government. It deals primarily with the 
gaki and other native shen of that nation, although its operatives are granted 
frequent special permission to travel abroad through backroom deals with neigh- 
boring nations (usually in exchange for ridding the host country of a “little 
problem” or two). In exchange for agreeing to sever all ties to their previous lives, 
sign on for a lengthy and intensive term of service and undergo surgery to alter their 
appearance and identifying marks, prospective SFO agents are offered a chance to 
enjoy biotechnology “upgrades” decades ahead of what is known in the public 
sector. In fact, at least a few such upgrades are required by the agency, in order to 
ensure that the operative has at least a fighting chance against the fearsome 
opponents the organization does battle with every day. The main problem with 
Strike Force Zero is that its intelligence is frequently riddled with hearsay and 
inaccuracy, with results ranging from slight misconceptions about a particular 
target to deadly gaps in the team’s knowledge. While the Shih have studied the 
shen and their weaknesses for thousands of years, Strike Force Zero is only a little 
over half acentury old and thus struggling mightily to learn more about its enemies. 
Agents are even encouraged to bring back targets alive for vivisection, if possible! 
The agency is also handicapped by the fact that it is secretly being manipulated by 
various factions of the Japanese shen, usually to silence a rival or advance some 
other shadowy goal. 
Nevertheless, Strike Force Zero agents themselves are far from helpless. Aside 
from their own personal biological enhancements, they are also given a carte 
blanche when it comes to weapons, supplies and other mundane expenses, as well 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


as a proverbial “license to kill” as long as they keep such “sanctions” appropriately 
discreet. The only thing the agency hates worse than the shen is the possibility of 
being discovered by the world at large, and the agency will not hesitate to take any 
measures necessary to preserve its secrecy, including cutting off its own agents if 
their actions become too public. Zero teams are never less than five members, each 
wirh a particular area of expertise - 
assassin, bombardier, cyber-rat, pilot and 
snoop. The teams are typically close-knit and extremely loyal, (since they know 
that the slightest hesitation in the field might cost one or all of them their lives), 
and agents train extensively together to hone their reactions to peak efficiency. 
Since Zero agents are taken away from their former lives, the team usually 
functions as a surrogate family of sorts as well, making for even closer bonds and 
a more personal stake in the greater cause against the shen. Though it may cost 
them their lives, Strike Force Zero agents are prepared to uncover and destroy the 
shen menace wherever it may be found. Faced with such ruthless determination, 
many Kuei-jin elders are growing more and more concerned about this renegade 
agency and its lethal combination of cold zeal and high technology. 
Jw 
Hllmy-fWm 
The following is a list of the enhancements that can be added at a cost of one 
level of the Arsenal Background each. Remember that each SFO agent begins play 
with at least two of these enhancements already, and they all may purchase more. 
Emotion Suppressers -This enhancement releases powerful chemicals into 
the agent’s bloodstream during moments of terror, effectively rendering the 
character immune to panicking and to effects such as the Delirium, the Veil, the 
Mists and so on. Essentially, the agent is distantly aware of the fact that he should 
be terrified, but he remains able to act normally. Note that the memories of these 
events aren’t removed either. Thus, many SFO agents suffer from chronic night- 
mares after their encounters with the shen. This device costs one Yang Chi per day. 
Gills - 
Placed at strategic points throughout a character’s body, these filters 
extract and store oxygen for use during underwater operations or in hostile 
environments. The agent becomes immune to most toxic gases simply by holding 
her breath. A Yang Trait is required every time the character must rely on her gills 
for an extended period of time (more than a minute). 
Night Eyes - 
These mechanical eyes allow the character to function at no 
penalty in complete darkness. There is no cost for using night eyes, although 
sudden bright lights may blind the character for a turn before the eyes adjust 
(Storyteller’s discretion). 
Video Eyes - 
This device allows the character to record up to one hour of 
color sound and video. Retrieval of the data requires removal of the eye, which in 
turn requires surgery - 
quick and painless work, but surgery nonetheless. Video 
eyes cost one Yang Trait every time they’re used. A character with this enhance- 
ment can ask those whose actions he’s recorded to “replay” their actions for him 
out of character to simulate what the video eye “witnessed.” 
Spy Eyes - 
Essentially a detachable camera, spy eyes are equipped with six 
tiny legs for motion, and they can be left by an agent in a location to observe events 
taking place there. Thus, the character may observe any events his eye is 
wimessing. During the time the eye is detached, however, the character develops 
a nasty case of double vision if attempting other actions. He incurs a two-Trait 
penalty to combat and other involved activities as long as the spy eye is active. The 
spy eye costs one Yang Trait to use, and must be sterilized before it is replaced in 
the socket. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Despite the title, limb replacements seldom involve entire limbs being 
removed. Rather, they involve a significant portion of the limb being replaced due 
to injury or agency need. It is important to note that while Strike Force Zero 
doctors are capable of placing most of these enhancements in any limb the patient 
desires, doing so may inhibit the proper usage of the enhancement in question in 
some cases. A pulse cannon in your leg may make an excellent weapon of 
desperation, but it’s quite awkward to aim under normal circumstances (to say the 
least). Storytellers should feel free to impose penalties on characters whose 
enhancements are located in difficult or inconvenient places for the task at hand. 
Furthermore, each related enhancement has several security features to 
ensure that the agent doesn’t accidentally shoot his foot off with a plasma cannon 
or release his cyberclaws while picking his nose (ouch). An agent must concentrate 
on the enhancement as well as speak, loudly and clearly, a command phrase before 
the enhancement will activate. Naturally, the phrase should be something fairly 
exotic if one wishes to avoid accidentally discharging a taser in public. For 
example, phrases like “Hello” and “Fine, thank you” are notably poor choices, 
while “Burning Plasma Cannon!” and “Six4troke Slashing Claws!” are more 
appropriate. The doctors say these measures are all necessary for security reasons, 
although many agents think privately that the experts are just pulling a prank on 
them or even that they are overeager fans of anirne. Needless to say, such command 
phrases can make for some difficulty in stealth situations. Then again, it’s pretty 
hard to muffle the report of a pulse cannon, anyway. 
pulse Cannons - 
These weapons are reliable and lethal, storing bioenergy 
and delivering it in a lethal bolt of radiation designed to disrupt the bioelectrical 
field of anything it strikes. Firing a pulse cannon is treated the same as any other 
Fiream Challenge. Pulse cannons give three bonus traits, have the Negative 
Trait: Loud and deliver three levels of lethal damage on a successful hit. Pulse 
cannons cost two Yin Traits with each use, making them weapons of last resort 
indeed. Even with their high cost, however, pulse cannons are preferred over tasers 
by most SFO agents. While the cannons may not do as much serious damage, tasers 
require an agent to get in close with their target, and all but the most green recruits 
know that close combat with the shen is a quick ticket to suicide. 
Tasers - 
These microfine wire implants only work in close combat with a 
target. Actual contact isn’t necessary, but the target can be no further away than 
normal melee range. They are used almost exclusively against shen, as the charge 
delivered (500 volts at 100 amps, roughly enough to quick-fry a bull elephant) will 
kill almost any human target. Tasers give two bonus Traits and have the Negative 
Trait: Short. A successful use of the tasers inflicts three health levels of aggravated 
damage on the target. In addition, the Narrator is encouraged to rule that normal 
mortals - 
not player characters or critical villains! -are simply killed outright by 
the intense electricity. Each use of the taser requires one Yin Trait, and characters 
whomisswith the taserstrikemust immediatelywinor tieaSimpleTest (retestable 
with the Brawl or Martial Arts Ability) or suffer the taser’s damage themselves. 
Note: Kuei-jin and other undead suffer only lethal damage from this weapon, 
since they do not require their internal organs to survive. Wraiths suffer no damage 
at all from tasers. 
Rejuvenators - 
This brilliant piece of wetware is a small army of nanites 
dedicated to rebuilding a character after he has suffered grievous bodily harm. It 
can perform all manner of medical miracles, from reknitting nerves and bones to 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


draining punctured lungs and restarting wounded organs. Each health level 
repaired costs one Yang Trait, and the limitation on how much Yang Chi can be 
spent still applies. A character with four Courage Traits can heal up to four health 
levels, and no more. 
Note: Using the nanites requires no conscious action on the character’s part; 
they ready themselves automatically when the character is injured. More than one 
unconscious Zero agent has been saved from bleeding to death (or asimilarly nasty 
fate) by the intervention of this wetware. 
Sheath - 
These enhancements are simply cleverly designed “pockets” built 
into an agent’s arm or leg, which can be used to hide all manner of items that would 
otherwise be confiscated on sight. Many agents have sheaths installed to hide 
striker guns, though such sheaths must be placed in the leg due to the size of the 
weapon. The sheaths even shield the pocket from x-rays and metal detectors, and 
they are completely invisible and undetectable when closed. Opening the sheath 
does not count as an action, although reaching for something inside might depend 
on where the sheath is located. Sheaths cost nothing to use, although shielding 
them from electronic detection costs one Yang Trait per scene. 
Cyberclaws - 
Ideal close-combat weapons, cyberclaws extend a full eight 
inches from the body. The ankles, wrists, elbows and knees are favorite places to 
install these claws. Cyberclaws give their wielder two bonus Traits during combat, 
cannot be disarmed and possess the Negative Trait: Short. Extending the claws 
costs one Yin Trait, and doing so enables the wielder to inflict lethal damage in 
hand-to-hand combat instead of the usual bashing damage. 
Psi-Band Radio - 
This favorite piece of wetware allows a Zero team to 
communicate silently up to one mile apart. The communicator itself runs from the 
left ear to the left side of the jaw, and it is activated by touching a spot on the jaw. 
Despite the name, no psionic talent is involved, although at the Narrator’s 
discretion certain beings with the Telepathy Numina or similar powers may 
sometimes detect the use of psi-band radios nearby. There is no Chi cost to use psi- 
band radio. In game terms, all team members using the radio are allowed to 
communicate privately any time their radio is active (even telepaths cannot 
actually “overhear” the conversations, only detect their presence). These messages 
cannot be intercepted by any known means. Players in particularly large playing 
areas may wish to carry actual walkie-talkies or other devices in order to facilitate 
game-play, rather than constantly employing Narrators or stopping play to ferry 
messages back and forth. 
Snake Fangs - 
This term is actually something of a misnomer. Snake fangs 
are implants in the agent’s palm which allow them to deliver poisons via tiny air 
guns during melee combat. To use the snake fangs, a character must strike his 
opponent successfully with his fists and spend one Yin Trait. The target must then 
make a Static Physical Challenge against adifficulty based on the intended severity 
and effect of the poison the agent is using. The fast-acting, nonlethal neurotoxins 
most agents use are difficulty six, while stronger or more lethal substances would 
have accordinglyhigher difficulties to resist. In order to smooth game-play later on, 
players should approach their Storytellers before the session and tell them what 
poison their character is using, then write down on an item card the difficulty to 
resist its effects and/ or any damage it may cause to the target. As an added bonus, 
the snake fangs release an antidote into the character’s bloodstream if he acciden- 
tally injects himself. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Enhancers - 
These devices are cybernetic limbs designed to mimic regular 
limbs, but with an added bonus or two. Such limbs have no pulse, they are a few 
degrees cooler than the rest of the body, and they cannot recognize the same depth 
of sensation they once did, but they offer great strength in exchange. Upon the use 
of the proper code phrase, the agent is three Traits up on all strength-related tests 
with that limb (including relevant combat tests) and he inflicts an extra level of 
lethal damage (or two levels of bashing) on attacks made with that limb. At the 
Narrator’s discretion, the agent may also use his strength to punch or kick through 
walls and other obstacles, but players should remember that the tissue surrounding 
the limbs is not enhanced. Lifting half a ton certainly might be possible with an 
enhanced arm, but only at the cost of tearing every single related natural muscle 
with the effort! For that reason, enhancers are typically usedonly for attacking and 
battering down objects. Characters who attempt other feats with them may suffer 
damage and other consequences. 
Vibroblades - 
These razor-sharp, microfine blades are capable of cutting 
through nearly anything with very little effort. They’re excellent for turning foes 
to jerky strips in short order, but also an easy way for a careless agent to wind up 
missing a limb or two as well. Agents facing superior martial artists are also likely 
in a great deal of trouble. Vibroblades work so quickly and cut so deeply the target 
doesn’t actually feel pain until several seconds later. That is, all wound penalties 
inflicted by vibroblades (excluding Incapacitated and beyond) are delayed until 
the turn after they should take effect. Vibroblades give two Bonus Traits, have the 
Negative Trait: Awkward (to avoid cutting oneself) and inflict two health levels 
of lethal damage. 
Grenade Launchers - 
An agent can have a grenade launcher installed 
directly into his body. The type of grenade fired varies by preference, although each 
launcher is fitted for a single type at creation. Using other types requires the agent 
to make a Simple Test before firing. On a loss, the launcher jams, and it must be 
unjammed with the Firearms Ability. Otherwise, the launcher’s statistics are as 
follows: two Bonus Traits, the Negative Trait: Awkward and damage/ effect 
according to grenade type. The limb used also must be straightened completely 
before firing, in order to ensure a straight launch. The grenade may be fired or 
thrown, according to the agent’s preference. When it comes to damaging a large 
group (as with incendiary grenades), treat the test the same as the special weapon 
ability: Spay. (See the combat section, p. XX, on how this ability is handled.) 
Some grenades, particularly smokers and flash-bangs, may also require a Narrator 
to describe the events in the area to characters involved. 
Internal Tracking Gear - 
This revolutionary bit of technology allows an 
agent to track a target effectively even after being blinded, deafened or dazzled, 
controlling the agent’s reflexes and motor centers to keep the agent’s hand locked 
onto the target. Even if not impaired, the ITG helps improve the agent’s reflexes, 
bettering her aim. As long as the agent’s body chemistry indicates a combat 
situation, the ITG continues to track a target. The character may ignore the 
penalties of blindness or deafness for the purposes of attacking her target, and if not 
impaired, the ITG puts the agent one Trait up on all Fireawns and Meke tests 
against a tracked target. Activating the ITG costs one Yang Trait. 
Web Spinners - 
Nozzles in the character’s fingers are designed to emit a 
stream of fast-drying, steel-hard paste which can be used either as a short-range 
restraint or a long-range snare according to the agent’s desires. In close range, treat 
the web foam the same as the effects of a steel form grenade, except only a single 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


target can be affected. The foam has only six health levels and the difficulty to 
escape is 10 Traits. The web glue can be dissolved only by a special chemical 
compound contained in the agent’s pinkie finger. Activation costs one Yin Chi, 
and the effective range is 10 paces. 
Field Armor - 
The rare Series IV Portable Analysis and Assault Station (or 
“field armor,” as agents insist on calling it) is a custom-designed suit of armor 
equipped with state-of-the-art sensor arrays, a communications linkup that allows 
for mental activation of the suit’s functions and strength-enhancing gloves and 
boots. The sensors onboard allow an agent to analyze fingerprints, fiber samples, 
blood samples and genetic information discovered at the scene. A modem hookup 
allows for secure communication with SFO headquarters, a wide band radio scans 
local communications, and the suit contains visual and auditory enhancements for 
discerning additional information (agents effectively gain Sharpened Senses while 
those systems are employed). The armor counts as a ballistic vest for purposes of 
absorbing damage. Finally, the physical enhancers in the gloves and boots add an 
additional level of damage in close combat. Each suit is crafted for a specific agent 
(including space for an agent’s own bionic enhancements), and it will not function 
for anyone else. These suits are still being refined - 
damage can easily upset the 
suit’s delicate sensors at this stage of development. Most SFO agents don’t even 
those know these suits exist, much less have a chance of being issued one. This 
enhancement cannot be selected without Storyteller approval. The suit costs no 
Chi to use unless the wearer activates the enhancers in the gloves and boots -such 
usage costs one Yin Trait. 
Keypads - 
These built-in bits of cyberware give the user access to secured 
systems, allowing the character to analyze and bypass both computer systems as 
well as physical or electronic defenses. Descramblers wired into the equipment are 
capable of cracking most known codes easily, as well as adding new codes as they 
crack the old. Keypads are implanted into a user’s hands, and they are always 
working. Characters with this enhancement receive a free retest on all Security and 
Computer tests related to defeating a target’s defenses. Keypads cost one Yin Chi 
per day, but only if in “active mode”; otherwise, power-drain is minimal. 
Kabuki Masks - 
This enhancement allows a character to alter such subtle 
but important factors as the length and width of their nose, the shape of their eyes, 
the height of their cheekbones and even the length of their jawline in order to 
create a different appearance. Increasing or decreasing skin tension can even 
simulate a different age, and manipulating the vocal chords can create a different 
voice. The modifications are not complete enough to allow the agent to imperson- 
ate someone else (unless they just happen to look a lot like their target already), 
but may be used to blur the agent’s identity so that they are unrecognizable to those 
who are looking for them. The change costs one Yang Trait, takes several (painful) 
minutes of adjustment and lasts until the agent decides to take on another face or 
resume her old appearance. Players using this advantage should adopt a posture or 
use a description card to show their altered appearance. Since the change is an 
actual physical process, this disguise cannot be seen through by Heightened Senses 
or other powers, although the agent may still give herself away in other ways if not careful. 
b o D W O W ~ E u ( t  SnYK!! 
(iUW 
Striker Pistol - 
The signature weapon of SFO, striker guns are built like 
normal heavy pistols, but they are lighter, stronger and specially designed to 
function only for the agent to whom they’re issued. A small sensor in the grip 
responds to special sensors implanted in the agent’s hands; without such confirma- 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


tion, the pistol locks up and will not fire. This recognition system is also a safety 
feature, since the gun will not activate for a possessed agent, thus alerting team 
members to trouble in their midst. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two health levels 
Availability: Strike Force Zero agents only; no exceptions. (SFO is very 
prompt to reclaim any striker guns stolen or “lost” during service, no matter what 
the cost.) 
Special Ability: Custom-Fitted: Each striker pistol is attuned to its owner, and 
it will not fire for anyone else. The same is true if the owner is possessed by spirits, 
but not if the character is under mind control or similar domination. Unique 
Ammunition: Striker guns can use several different types of exotic ammunition 
with varying special benefits. Some of the most common types used are listed here. 
Each agent receives four clips ofstandard-issue ammo and one clip ofeachspecialty 
type (color-coded for ease of reference). Further rounds must be procured through 
the standard agency channels. 
Standard-Issue: These rounds are normal bullets that give the striker gun 
the special ability: High-Caliber. 
Silver bullets: These rounds are treated as normal rounds, but they can cause 
aggravated wounds on certain targets, as well as conferring the benefit: High- 
Caliber. 
Sounders: These rounds emit a high-pitched whine inaudible to humans, 
but which causes discomfort and disorientation in hengeyokai, Kuei-jin, Kin-jin 
with Heightened Senses and other sensitive types. A vulnerable target becomes two 
Traits down for the rest of the scene due to distraction, and other such beings 
within losteps ofthe target mustwinaSimpleTest or suffer asimilardisadvantage. 
Sounders inflict no other damage. 
Trackerbullets: Tracker rounds do not receive the High-Caliber benefit, but 
they not only inflict damage on a successful hit, but they inject a tiny intramuscular 
tracking device as well. This device allows a target to be tracked up to 100 miles 
away, and it is impossible to detect by normal means. It is otherwise quite harmless, 
and it will be ignored by the body’s immune system. Kuei-jin bodies, however, 
reject the device after 24 hours. 
Ectoplasmic Disrupters: These bizarre rounds track the electromagnetic 
signatures given off by wraiths and explode in a pulse of energy designed to disrupt 
the wraith’s form. A successful hit from an ectoplasmic disrupter inflicts two levels 
of damage to a wraith‘s Corpus. Living beings are unharmed by disrupter rounds. 
Rubberbullets: These rounds are treated exactly like normal rounds, except 
they inflict bashing damage instead of lethal. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


sacr;Gqo UYM 
~SHIIK(SnUK!! F!waw 1 
The following are new Background Traits available only to Shih and SFO 
characters. They may be purchased normally during character creation (except 
where noted), and some will likely change quite a bit during play. 
Strike Force Zero agents can access wetware and other technology beyond the 
wildest dreams of contemporary scientists and technicians, allowing them to 
enhance their physical prowess, cognitive abilities and even alter their body 
structure in outstanding ways. Every SFO agent begins with two such implants 
automatically, and many opt for at least one or two more, although few agents have 
more than three levels of this Background- the cost to them and their personality 
is just too steep after that. However, few agents debate their worth out in the field. 
Each level of this Background allows for the character to select an additional 
implant. It is rare for agents to request new implants once play begins, since surgical 
recovery times are high, and the Storyteller is well within her rights to ask a 
substantial amount of downtime be required for those characters who undergosuch 
surgery. 
Backers 
All SFO characters have this Background. It allows the character to gather 
resources to pay bribes, purchase weapons, extract herself from political trouble 
and otherwise grease the wheels of everyday life. Please note that this Background 
is not an instant cure-all, however. It may take quite a bit of time to get a character 
released from jail even if the warden is bribed, and while SFO characters are licensed 
to kill, they must still explain themselves to local law enforcement. A tricky job 
that gets harder and harder the farther they are from home. The amount of this 
Background indicates how much money is usually on hand for bribes and the 
amount of political sway the character can muster. While uncommon among the 
Shih, it is not unheard of for some of them to gather this kind of influence if they 
remain in a region long enough, carry over contacts from their old lives, or even 
earn the patronage of grateful citizens with means to aid them. 
1 - 
Allowance of 200 yen per day for bribes, minor political sway (avoid 
parking tickets) 
2 -Allowance of 400 yen per day for bribes, can avoid almost anything less 
than a felony charge. Licensed to carry a firearm. 
3 - 
Allowance of 600 yen per day for bribes, can avoid being arrested for 
anything less than a violent felony. Licensed to carry a concealed firearm. 
4 - 
Allowance of 800 yen per day for bribes, can avoid being arrested for 
anything less than espionage. Licensed to assist local law enforcement in emer- 
gency situations. 
5 - Allowance of 1000 yen per day for bribes, can call on local law 
enforcement for backup (watch what you tell them, though) or take command of 
local law enforcement in emergency situations. Has the equivalent of diplomatic 
immunity in most allied nations. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


ge per Trait. Be wa 
this manner candie! If t 
P 
- 311111 iiIlU 3l-U LIldldLlC13 dlC Uy LIU IllCdllS llllLllUllC L U  LIIC L111’ 
4 
drainingpowers of the Kuei-jin. EachTrait ofChi takenfrom the character 
one less they can access, until restored through natural processes. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


-- 
. 
- .. . 
.. - - - ._ 
“loaned” to agents if their current case has top priority. 
:an get special equipment within one day, but must fill out the right 
ecial equipment by the end of the session, but s 
ecessary forms. 
:an get special equipment in one day 
’.m “Pt m-,.iQl 
Pn.,;nmnnc L, 
4.- ,%-A , C + L  -a””;-.-. l”+ A,. l-.--..\ 
-- 
All SFO characters have neat toys, but your character can request truly top- 
of-the-line gear and expect to see it before he grows old. This Background indicates 
how fast a character can expect to get the special gear he requests, as well as the 
amount of red taDe he can avoid in the Drocess. Note that this Rxkmoiind i q  
sometimes 
1--c 
forms 
2-c 
all of the n 
3-c 
help you, sir? Yes, yes, of course. Here you are, sir! 
Favors 
Both types of demon-hunters 1 
their only insurance against an unruly crowd or a guarantee of a hot meal, it means 
extra leverage while for Strike Force Zero to continue their hunting unopposed. 
Each level of this Background reflects a person who owes the character, and we do 
mean owe. Whatever the aid might given have been, it was considerable, and now 
the debtor is in the position where he must do nearly anything the character asks 
of him. Disposing of evidence (or bodies), serious theft, even murder may be 
possible through the use of favors, depending on the type of person the debtor is. 
You must work with the Storyteller to determine who owes you and why, in order 
to better roleplay the inevitable exchange where you call your favor in. Storytellers 
are encouraged to award free levels of this Background to characters who earn them 
during play, and likewise to have little qualms about a Narrator character calling 
in favors the characters owe from time to tim 
pw@QK!! =vaw) 
Every Strike Force field agent has officlal 
LII LllF military. 
having a rank and using it are two different things, especially when it comes to 
having the often bizarre requests of SFO agents honored. This Background reflects 
how well-accepted the rank of the agent is, as well as how high in rank the agent 
has risen. Without this Background, the character is considered a low-ranking 
officer. 
1 - 
Second lieutenant; tolerated but seldom obeyed when not actually 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


DO’S Wb boy‘rs 
Laws of the East will put you in contact with a lot of different people, some of 
whom are likely to be wired on adrenaline and consumed by the danger and mystery 
of the story. Under such circumstances, intensity can lead to disagreement and 
arguments, and neither of these things is conducive to having a good time. Listed 
here are some important extra guidelines to help keep tempers in check and the 
story flowing smoothly. Do your part to make everything work. 
Don’t go wild - 
The idea here is not to get carried away and hurt yourself. 
You should never pretend to attack anyone physically, and you should never do 
anything remotely dangerous. Describe and mimic any action that could be 
considered even slightly dangerou 
Be a teacher - 
Achieving 
ry by taking advantage of someone’s lack 
of knowledge is completely without class. Teach the poor sucker every trick and 
nuance beforehand, and then beat him anyway. Now that’s a triumph worth 
bragging about. 
Don‘t use weapons - 
We’ve said it before, we’ll say it again. Don’t even 
carry representations of weapons, not even if your character needs them for his 
special Hundred Lashing Tails of the Angry Storm Dragon nunchaku technique. 
protect the Veil - 
Don’t perform illegal-seeming activities in public 
places, and make sure you use prop cards for any unusual or dangerous items that 
your character possesses. 
Don’t overact - 
Don’t act out strong emotions unless everyone present is 
aware of what’s going on, and always be ready to simmer down if someone asks to 
take a breather from a particularly intense scene. It may be wonderful to be 
immersed in the passion of an exchange with another character, but always 
remember that the real person behind that character has to be comfortable for it 
to be really great. Unnerving them or tiring them out just doesn’t do that. 
Stay in character - 
Step out of character only if you have to. Respect 
others’ needs to step out of character, for whatever reason. Never abuse this 
courtesy by saying you are out of character just to avoid an encounter. 
Experienced players learn to weave the system of challenges into their 
conversations and be rather sly about it. They can avoid alerting the “mundanes” 
that anything is happening. Doing so is the linchpin of Mind’s Eye Theatre. Real 
people try to solve things calmly and collectively, not by kung fu strikes every five 
seconds. Characters should follow their example. 
Don’t debate the rules - 
Nobody likes a rules lawyer. Don’t start rules 
arguments during the game. Call for a Narrator. If you have a problem with a 
Narrator’s call, wait until after the game to argue your case. In the meantime, don’t 
hold up the rest of the plot. 
Foster intrigue - 
Don’t ever limit yourself to the goals and motivations 
that a Narrator gives you at the start of a session; take control. Get involved! After 
all, it’s your story. 
Create your own plots - 
Create your own story and work other characters 
into it one by one. Characters are made to act, not to react. 
Watch out for other players - 
Keep an eye out for players who look bored. 
A bored player is the perfect assistant Narrator. Remember that some players who 
get really bored tend to have their characters start killing other characters for no 
other reason than to have something to do. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


Respect theNarratm-Remember 
that the Narrators have gone to a huge 
effort to create the story. Be nice to them. Request their help only when you really 
need it, and thank them whenever they do come to the rescue. 
Roleplay, roleplay, roleplay - 
Not everything has to come down to a 
challenge. Avoid “rulesmongering”; roleplay things out instead. A challenge 
should be a last resort, when players cannot agree on what should happen. It’s much 
easier and more fun to agree and tell a story than it is to play Rock-Paper-Scissors. 
If you use the rules only as acontingency to fall back on, you emphasize storytelling. 
Enjoy the surprises - 
Be ready for surprises and learn to enjoy them. Don’t 
throw a fit because the ancestor happened to show up right when you were about 
to make your move. The world your character occupies is full of mysteries; you 
shouldn’t know how everything is going to work out. Treat each situation as a 
puzzle, and attempt to deduce a solution. That’s what your Narrator hopes you will 
do. 
Don’t bring out-of-game knowledge to your character. Just because you’ve 
read every Year of the Lotus supplement from cover to cover doesn’t mean that your 
new Kuei-jin character has any idea of what’s happening to her. Bringing outside 
knowledge in game is called “ninja sense” or “metagaming,” which are polite names 
for “cheating.” 
Be patient with changes - 
Be patient when things change in midstream. 
Tell the Narrator about your plot ideas before the game starts, so she has time to 
prepare for your plot’s effects. If your ideas are good, the Narrator will probably 
thank you and write your plot into the next story. 
robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


‘2/Al\lq c?41 
0000000000 
cloooooooo0 
Vf;)EMOhl CFTI 
0000000000 
0000000000 
VFTAEPW 
0000000000 
0000000000 
0000000000 
- 
OOROOOROOO 
hlIUF’OkdEE 
-robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1


robert wheeler (order #36511)
1
