I 
1 


Written by: Peter Woodworth 
Jester's Rules Bunk System original edition by: Steve Gabania 
Fiction by: Cynthia Summers 
Developed by: Cynthia Summers 
Edited by: James Stewart 
Previously published material has appeared in: The Shining Host, Laws of 
the Night, Changeling Players Guide, Kithbook: Nockers, The Shadow 
Court, The Enchanted, Nobles: The Shining Host, Inanimae: The Secret 
Way, Fool's Luck: The Way of the Commoner, Denizens of the Dreaming, 
World of Darkness: Blood-Dimmed Tides 
Art direction by: Aaron Voss 
Photographs by: Pauline Benney 
Front and back cover design: Aaron Voss 
Layout and typesetting by: Aaron Voss 
Playtesters: Russell Collins, Greg Curley, Dan DiFlavis, Kai Doll, Todd 
Erickson, Jim Fillmore, Matt Florentine, Alyson Gaul, Jody Gerst, Jeremiah 
Goldovitz, Steve Grabania, Lillian Horvitz, Amy Houser, Keith Jameson, 
Matthew Kaufman, Scott Laipple, Chris LoeMer, Sarah McIlvaine, Suzanne 
Mlynarczyk, Kelly Niedzialek, Danielle Nordyk, John Passanante, Larry 
Puccio, Mike Rohner, Andy Scott, Cindy Silvestri, Victor Silvestri, Nick 
Simpson, Megan Strittmatter, Kathy Sykes, Jada Weaver, Andy Woodworth. 
7% PARK NORTH 6lVD. 
SUITE 128 
k4RKSTON, CA 30021 
USA 
0 
2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. Reproduction without the 
written permission of the publisher is expressly 
forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, 
and for blank character sheets, which may be 
reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, 
Vampire, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire 
the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, Hunter 
the Reckoning. World of Darkness and Aberrant 
"l 
are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, 
Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Shining Host Players Guide, 
The Shining Host, Laws of the Night, Laws of the Wild, Changeling Players Guide, The 
Enchanted, Inanimae The Secret Way, The Shadow Court, Fool's Luck the Way of the 
Commoner, Kithbook Nockers, Axis Mundi, Rage Across the Heavens, The Spirit Ways, 
Changing Breeds, World of Darkness Blood-DimmedTides, Denizens of the Dreaming and 
Nobles the Shining Host are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. Thementionoforreference toany company orproduct in thesepages isnot achallenge 
to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for settings, 
characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for 
entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is 
advised. For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. Check out White Wolf 
online at http://www.white-wolf.com; 
alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller 
PRINTED IN USA. 


TABL 
ENTS 
4 
10 
56 
90 
136 
174 
194 


Call this my last confession, if you want. It’s the events of the night, 
as I remember them - 
I’ve already had enough hooba-joo on my head to 
last me through three lives, and the story ain’t changing. Gimme that 
Basilisk Stone and let me get to work. 
Lissa wanted to go somewhere more exciting for Halloween. Don’t get 
a stick in your eye about it, but this place does get too much “trick-or- 
treat.” So we look for bigger fish and come up with Franklin Street up in 
Chapel Hill. New Orleans was my choice, but too damn much wrought 
iron, you know. So we’re drivin’ up late on the 29th - 
figure we’ll get 
there, take a day to mess around and then get into things for real on the 
3 1st. 
I remember I had a buncha mix tapes, and Lissa was singing along in 
that blackbird voice of hers. She got to the one about Tam Lin, when 
Steeleye Span did it, and she stops when they talk about the tithe to Hell. 
“We didn’t really do that, did we?” she asks. I tell her I dunno - 
probably 
the Unseelie did back in the Auld Country. Some poor yutz walked out at 
the wrong time to take a leak on Samhain and you know the rest. 
So we get to Chapel Hill, crash at a mom-n-pop motel for some sleep, 
and get up to prowl. It’s a college town, so it’s not too banal - 
it’s got its 
spots, but you can avoid them if you look. We were getting a bit of crap 
from the jocks, ‘cause they’re jocks and that’s the nature of the beast, but 
I knew they’d be at Lissa’s feet if they could see what I see - 
Lady 
Melissande ap Fiona, with shining hair that she asks me to braid for her 
and eyes as green as rose leaves, all in the crimson and silver colors of her 
house. She may not be jocks’ taste, but I remember Duke Isidore ap 
Gwydion staring at her all through Pennons like he couldn’t get enough 
of her. w h y  she liked being with a piss-n-vinegar cranky 01’ nocker like 


present for you. 
Anyhow, so there we are in the old bookstore, and this guy makes a 
play for her. He calls her “lady” and that perks me up, so I give the guy a 
once-over. He’s good-looking, I guess, if oversexed goat-leggers turn you 
on. He’s making small talk and all the while he’s staring at Lissa, and it’s 
not the usual damn-baby-you-look-hot stare that every firkin’ satyr seems 
to radiate. There’s hunger in his eyes, like he’s the Big Bad Wolf and Lissa’s 
an unlucky lambie. Lissa and I weren’t oathsworn as lovers, but all the 
same I put my hand on her back, he and I catch eyes, and that unspoken 
little cha-cha of “Yours?” “Mine!” happens like it does, and he tones down 
the act. That should be that, but I get the feeling the fire’s only banked, 
not out. He called himself Phillippe. 
He told us how great it was that we came up to visit Chapel Hill at 
Samhain, and the usual playa bullshit. Lissa’s giving him the time of day, 
which I wish she wouldn’t, but if I try to drag her out, I look jealous, so I 
suck it up. Then he invites us out to his freehold for the afternoon. I 
manage to talk first to decline, saying we’re just in town for the party, but 
no, he just comes right back and says we’re welcome to come to the 
freehold’s Samhain party tomorrow. Lissa accepts the second invite, and 
again me, trying not to look jealous, sucks it up. 
That night, after pub-crawling a couple of the local haunts, we get 
ready for bed, and I see Lissa standing by the open window in her 
nightgown. Something about the way the moonlight hits her all over - 
the way the wind is moving - 
the smell of the air crisp with fall leaves and 
smoke and night - 
gets me in all the wrong places. She looks beautiful, 
but I’m afraid of that beauty suddenly. She turns to look at me, and for a 
brief second, something shines in her eyes that shouldn’t be there, and just 
as quick, it’s gone, and she’s the same old Lissa, wondering why I’m staring 
at her. All I can do is suggest she shut the window and come to bed. 
I’ve already told you about Halloweenday. I know, I know, you wanna 
hear about the night. I’ll tell you what I remember, and if you make me eat 
another friggin’ rosemary sprig, you’ll get it through your 
hemmingemurgytroid heart, understand? 
So we get dressed in our gear and masks - 
Lissa had on this long blue 
dress with a tail so she looked like a peacock- and we hit Franklin Street. 
That’s one of the big highlights of this place, the street fair and parading 
up and down Franklin. In the late afternoon, it’s just families with kids, but 
as the sun starts heading west, the crowds get thicker, the people wilder. 
The Glamour’s so thick you could almost swim in it. We’re out there with 
the rest, but the night’s starting to work its magic early. Lissa moves past 
yet another Wizard of Oz quartet, and I see the people gazing at her as if 
she’s a queen. When they start staring like that, the Glamour’s getting 
wild, enough that even the mortals who aren’t enchanted can see 


hair and green eyes and pure dream. I remember how I’d joshed her about 
going as a peacock, ‘cause she’s anything but stuck up, but she seems to be 
getting into the role all right. She looks beautiful, but there’s something 
in her eyes like Phil’s - 
dangerous, proud - 
and it reflects a little of how 
I feel. The mortal men are gaping at her like slack-jawed apes, their hands 
like crude paws desperate to touch this starlike woman, and if you’d asked 
me then what I thought about mortals, I would have spit on them for even 
daring to look at her. 
Phil’s there on the curb, wearing only a heavily embroidered loincloth 
and sweat with his goat-legs. He looks struck by the change in Lissa, and 
the hunger is back in full force. “Hail, Queen of summer,” he says and 
kisses the hand Lissa extends to him. I feel the flash of jealousy again, and 
I slip my hand into her free one, but it feels different, looser and chill. 
We took our offerings of candy and booze, and headed out for the 
freehold - 
they called it Ash Hall, but damned if I could show you where 
it is. I’m sure that’s why Phil offered to drive us. 
We get there, and there’s more changelings there than I can remember 
seeing in one place - 
I see boggans out with the picnic tables, trolls with 
huge armloads of firewood, satyrs messing around with music, and pooka 
driving everyone crazy. There’s nockers discussing how best to put a 
bonfire together, and the redcaps are swappin’ the old “No, shit, there I 
was.. .” lines. Childlings, grumps, wilders and everyone in drop-dead 
costumes. It was the makings of a real, honest-to-Dreaming Samhain 
party. 
The party - 
I’d tell you more if I could remember it. I suspect it’s one 
of those things that, deep down, I’m better off not remembering. I 
remember food, and the booze flowing like a river. I remember fire 
everywhere - 
candles, jack-0-lanterns, bonfires - 
but it seemed to be for 
making shadows instead of lighting up the place. I remember dancing 
around the fires, and sounds of passion in the shadows. At some point, I 
think Lissa went to dance with another sidhe - 
I must’ve been okay with 
that, ‘cause I went to hang with a coupla other nockers. I remember talking 
with a group of folks, and everyone getting friendly, and then there was 
fire-dancing, and after that, it all turns into mush. 
I woke up cold and wadded up like an old newspaper under a park 
bench. I had a hangover, but nothing worse than I’ve had before, beyond 
a head gone fuzzy with Samhain Mists and some damn fine homebrew. I 
unrolled myself and headed back to the hotel, thinking all the way. 
Anytime I tried to put my finger on last night, it skittered away like aroach 
in the light - 
just mixed-up pictures of a woman in white, of people 
dancing around bonfires, masks, calling the dead, and the fevered dreams 
of. .. of. .. I don’t know. 


were empty. I checked all over the room, and then downstairs, and there 
was no sign of her. Her stuff was still there, and my heart accelerated like 
a race car. She went out with me last night, that much I can remember, 
and we were down on the street, and the rest is a huge blur. 
I showered as fast as I could and charged out into the street. I went 
every place we went before, I went a bunch of places we didn’t, and I even 
went to the furkin’ police, and all the bastiches said was, “Guess she found 
her own fun last night.” I settled for sugaring their gas tanks, much as I 
would have liked to blind them for that insult. 
I grab some lunch in a bistro-type - 
a chicken sandwich, roasted with 
rosemary. I’m chowing down, and suddenly, I started to think about 
things, and for a few moments, the Samhain Mists cleared. 
Lissa was standing at the biggest bonfire, wearing a white gown I’d 
never seen before, and that gorgeous hair bound only with a wreath of 
greenery. The Kithain were chanting something around her, almost 
singing, reaching out to touch the hem of her dress and her hair, like she 
was something holy or wonderful. She was smiling, but it was the smile of 
someone who’s trippin’ or not quite with us, y’know. Phil’s stood behind 
her, with a masked sidhe wearing green armor and two sluagh in black. 
“Hail, daughter of Summer!” Phil calls. “Behold the Bright Path, the way 
of all things! Walk it now-return 
to us the long summer of our birthright, 
and be forever a shining beacon to guide us home!” 
Lissa’s smile turned radiant, damn near holy. A door opened into the 
Dreaming, but it wasn’t a trod I’ve ever seen- the place beyond was dark, 
and the path might have been a Silver Path, but there’s a coldness to the 
light, flat and pale. She stepped forward, but something made her pause, 
and in that pause, her face lost the radiance. I don’t know if we saw each 
other, but suddenly, she was out of her trance, and awake, and scared. She 
managed only to lean back before Phil, the sidhe and the sluagh surged 
forward and pushed her into the dark portal. Her scream was cut off by the 
portal closing and the crowd going crazy, and the Mists slammed the door 
just as quick. 
The Dreaming must’ve meant for me to find the joint again, or the 
Willow-wisp wouldn’t’ve worked. In the daylight, the bonfires were just 
blackened ground, the freehold a tumbledown shack. No one said boo to 
me all the time I was there. Was this ever really the Ash Hall Freehold? 
Something in me said no, not with the gravestones scattered under the 
dead leaves. The place felt cold, but not banal cold. There was something 
in the air that wasn’t there last night - 
a feeling like hunger sated, even 
gorged. 


and I saw green. A wreath of holly with blood-red berries. Caught in the 
leaves - 
strands of hair the same shade as Lissa’s. 
Did I say no one said boo to me there? I lied - 
the wind in the trees 
overhead, it had the sound of a thousand voices, whispers and moans, and 
through them all was the sound of a woman’s scream being dragged high across 
the sky. 
I don’t know where Lissa’s gone. I’m sure I had something to do with 
it, but Samhain won’t let me remember it. All I know is that my darling 
is gone. And I hope that tonight I’ll be able to follow her. 


Spirits 6etween Carth ana Sky 
11 


A History of Sorrow anb Triumph 
The Nunnehi (a term meaning “people who live anywhere”) are the faerie 
folk indigenous to Concordia, having lived here long before the first Europeans 
or their Kithain cousins ever set foot on it. Like the Kithain, the Nunnehi are 
tom between two worlds, the Earthly realm and the Higher Hunting Grounds 
(the Nunnehi equivalent of the Dreaming) and struggle daily to preserve the 
old ways in a world that pushes them ever closer to the brink. To keep faerie 


allowing them to use their bodies until they were passed on naturally to 
children. Thus they began a similar cycle of death and rebirth as the commoner 
Kithain did with their Changeling Way ritual, allowing the sacred spirits to 
remain among the tribes they loved and served, if in a somewhat limited form. 
The Nunnehi continued this way for many centuries, living and dying 
alongside the tribes they loved, offering guidance when they could and battling 
the many evil things that stalked the weak and unwary in the night. Some of 
them became nightmares and taught the mortals lessons in fear and caution 
until great heroes came to put an end to their wickedness. Together with the 
elders and shamans of the tribes, the Nunnehi helped keep the old ways alive 
and harvested rich Medicine from the beauty of their surroundings. While 
never quite one with the tribe, they were accepted as a natural part of the world 
and revered for their great power and wisdom. 
Then the Europeans came. 
At first, most encounters were moments of curiosity, even friendship, as 
the Nunnehi went with their tribes to meet the newcomers. Though the 
Kithain were strange to their eyes, the Nunnehi could see the spark of the 
Dreaming that burned in their hearts, and most welcomed them as they would 
long-lost relatives. The earliest groups were small and primarily concerned with 
escaping the Banality of the Old World, so this worked for a time as the 
Nunnehi and their mortal cousins showed the newcomers how to survive in 
their new land and shared their Medicine. These were days of wonder as the two 
cultures made their first inroads toward learning from each other. 
Unfortunately, the Europeans came in increasing numbers, and the war for 
survival began as the Old World imperative to claim more lands and “civilize” 
the territory within them collided with the ancient traditions and homelands 
of the Nunnehi. Unable to harvest Medicine from the sacred sites, the Kithain 
chopped down groves and built mills and wells to tap the magical waters they 
encountered, turning them into the freeholds they were more familiar with. 
Armed with the same smug superiority of their mortal relatives, the Kithain 
believed it was their duty to “tame” the wilderness they encountered and bring 
culture and enlightenment to the “savages” who lived there. Those Nunnehi 
who fought these efforts were branded as troublemakers and bloodthirsty 
cannibals. War began in earnest when the Nunnehi fought to protect their 
sacred lands and mortal tribes while the Kithain moved to expand their 
territory and start fresh lives in the New World. 
Sadly, the history of the enchanted world mirrors that of the mortal one. 
Though they fought bravely, often against terrible odds, the Nunnehi were 
gradually pushed off nearly all of their ancestral lands. Many followed their 
tribes into forced relocation. Those who resisted were killed or subdued, their 
faerie selves suppressed by Banality, their memories shattered. The war did not 
end with relocation - 
Nunnehi faced a different type of extinction as diseases 


acceptance on their tribes, teaching them to cast aside the old ways in favor of 
new faiths and practices. This robbed the Nunnehi of their power even as it 
robbed their mortal kin of their heritage and identity. Many believed that 
Winter was upon them, and despair claimed as many as guns or plague ever did. 
Those were the darkest of days for the Nunnehi, and to this day the elders weep 
bitterly to think of them. 
R Twin Resurgence 
Though many tribes succumbed to extinction, and even those that did not 
suffered grievous losses of population and tradition alike, a recent resurgence in 
Native American pride over the past decades greatly invigorated the Nunnehi, 
reawakening many of the Families thought lost forever and breathing new life 
into their quest to preserve the old ways. Scholars of Native American descent 
and others are compiling histories and collections of tribal folklore, while artists 
explore traditional styles with new perspectives. Even those with only a little 
of the blood explore aspects of their lineage long ignored. While this resurgence 
is by no means a total recovery from the devastation wreaked during the wars 
and displacements, this trend sparked a substantial increase in the activity of 
the Nunnehi as well as their mortal relatives. The more spiritual or optimistic 
of the tribe see it as a chance for a new Spring after a hard Winter. 
This revitalization came at a perilous time, however. When the sidhe 
returned in 1969, they sparked new wars for territory and control all across 
Concordia, forcing the Nunnehi to ally with the commoner Kithain in some 
places to defend their lands from yet another threat. Other Nunnehi fought 
commoners and nobles alike, seeking to use the divide between the two groups 
to gain back some of their lands where their enemies were distracted. Still other 
Nunnehi, tired of the fighting, stood apart from it all or tried to act as a third 
party in the peace negotiations. Many Nunnehi now find themselves in a 
position where they must ally with the newcomers against greater threats like 
Banality and the coming Winter of the world. While friendships remain tricky 
at best, they have become more and more common as Nunnehi and Kithain 
alike realize their problems are too great to face apart. 
It remains to be seen whether these first few steps toward understanding 
can be sustained in light of the recent unrest, but regardless of the political 
climate, the Nunnehi understand one thing very well: They are stronger and 
more numerous than they have been in centuries, and they will not bow to any 
threat - 
be it Kithain or mortal or even Banality itself - 
without a fight. The 
cycle spins on, the ancient ways return, and the time for a rebirth has come. 
Gibes 
Though it should probably go without saying, the mortal tribe a Nunnehi 
hails from is more than simply a network of relatives - 
it is the breathing 
representation of everything the Nunnehi is drawn from. Most Nunnehi treat 


the very legends of these people, and while it is traditionally the mortals who 
turn to the Nunnehi for aid and guidance, wise fae remember where they came 
from and offer their help with grace and humility. Quite often, what are seen 
as a tribe’s myths are the actual history of their Nunnehi counterparts. In 
modem times, most Nunnehi can be found at the center of efforts to keep tribal 
lore alive. Even those Nunnehi who have been separated from their tribe (or 
in rare cases tumed their back on it) are just as shaped by the absence of it in 
their lives as their brethren are by its presence. 
Players are highly encouraged to not stop simply at choosing a tribe from 
one of the following lists, but also to do at least a little bit of research on the tribe 
they have chosen - 
not only does this enable them to add detail and flavor 
when roleplaying characters, but research also helps avoid stereotyping and 
ensures that other characters remember them as individuals and not simply as 
nondescript “native faerie.” That said, these lists are far from completely 
representative and tend to focus on the larger tribes of an area; hundreds if not 
thousands of smaller tribes exist, any of which would make agood starting point 
for a character. Finally, while most Nunnehi are drawn from the tribes and 
regions where their Family originally hails from, this is not an absolute rule; the 
intermarriages and forced migrations of different tribes have made it possible 
for Nunnehi of all kiths to emerge most anywhere in Concordia. 
Northeast: Primarily trappers, hunters and fishers, these tribes formed 
some of the greatest alliances of native peoples and were among the first to suffer 
at the hands of the Europeans because of it. Prominent tribes of the region 
include: lroquois, Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, Seneca, Tuscarora, 
Abnaki, Mailseet, Passamaquoddy, Penobscot, Micmac, Pequod, Susquehnna, 
Powhatan, Lenape, Shawnee, Rancocas, Dekware. 
Southeast: Hunter-gatherers and mound-dwellers who developed an 
elaborate civilization of their own, these tribes were massively displaced by the 
early expansion efforts, and few remain to tend their ancestral lands. Prominent 
tribes of the region include: Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek, Seminole, 
Natchez, Catawba, Yuchi, Clusa, Caddo, Tunica-Bibxi. 
Midwest: Largely nomadic tribes who followed the buffalo herds, these 
tribes are what most people think of when they picture “Indians,” thanks to 
Hollywood. Prominent tribes of the region include: Cree, Ojibwa, Winnebago, 
Blackfoot, Siksiksas, Bloods, Piegans, Lakota, Dakota, Nakota, Cheyenne, Crow, 
Kiowa, Comanche, Osage, 0 to, Pawnee, Fox, Illinois. 
Southwest: Farmers, pueblo-dwellers and creators of the rain dance, these 
tribes adapted to the harsh desert environment. Most have remained on their 
lands, if only because the territory seemed inhospitable to settlers. Prominent 
tribes of the region include: Apache, Hopi, Navajo, Zuni, Papago, Pima, Mojave , 
Tewa, Tiwa, Yum. 
Far West: Traders, fishers and excellent hunters, many of these tribes 


Per& . 
Far North and Pacific Northwest: Long since used to surviving the biting 
cold and ceaseless rains of the region, most of these tribes subsisted by fishing 
and hunting, and are perhaps best recognized by the totem poles many of these 
tribes considered sacred. Prominent tribes include: Chinook, H d ,  
Kwukiutl, 
Lumni , Akuts , Inuit, Tlingit , Tsirnshiun . 
Camps 
Nunnehi do not recognize the Seeliewnseelie distinction, instead using 
the Camps Summer (or Dogwood), Winter (or Rock) and Midseason (or 
Laurel). Summer Nunnehi tend to be outgoing, warm and friendly. Winter 
Nunnehi are usually withdrawn, cold and unforgiving. Midseason fae are 
tricksters one and all, balancing the two camps as they see fit. Many Nunnehi 
follow Camps on a seasonal basis, although this is by no means a requirement. 
For example, many Nunnehi adopt their Winter aspect when wronged or 
insulted, while some assume their Summer mien when falling in love or taking 
on quests. A few uncommon Nunnehi adhere to the same Camp nearly or 
completely year-round, but Nunnehi may change their Camp freely as Kithain 
do, although most prefer a private ritual of transition before showing off their 
new allegiance. 
Unlike their Kithain counterparts, most Nunnehi make no secret of their 
Camp affiliation. Indeed, those who know them well can often tell what Camp 
they are currently following by what they’re wearing or how they’re carrying 
themselves, even before they hear them speak. 
Another important aspect of Camps and their involvement in Nunnehi 
life is their impact on various secret societies a character might be a part of. Most 
Nunnehi belong to at least one or two such groups, and their current Camp 
allegiance can often be discerned from how active they are in a particular secret 
society at any given moment. Those enjoying the jesting Midseason between 
Camps frequently spend more time hanging out with the Coyote’s Howl or 
Raven Feather society, for example, while those on the warpath of Winter may 
increase the time they spend in the company of their brothers and sisters in the 
Thunder Wolf lodge. This is seen as a perfectly natural transition - 
after all, 
it’s probably better for everyone that a Nunnehi in the depths of her brooding 
Winter Legacy stay away from the community outreach programs of her fellow 
Soothing River healers. Nunnehi don’t tend to hold such changing allegiances 
against each other, preferring to let their fellows return when they’re ready 
rather than forcing them to remain involved in activities they aren’t currently 
suited for. Besides, such changing ways ensure that different changelings are 
always applying themselves to where they’re strongest. And younglings and 
braves can experience all the Nations have to offer before they settle into the 
ways they will follow as elders. 


between Summer and Winter factions, like the Kithain are with the Seelie/ 
Unseelie dichotomy. Nunnehi of different Camps may sometimes have trouble 
seeing eye-to-eye on certain issues, but all recognize the role each has to play 
in the greater cycle. 
Glamour ana Wanality 
Nunnehi refer to Glamour as “Medicine” and see it as an expression of 
spiritual power drawn from the innate connection to the Higher Hunting 
Grounds possessed by all natural things, rather than as an expression of the 
creative energy behind artwork (though they may gather it from that as well, 
if they desire). When one takes time to coax out this divine energy, be it 
through artwork and performance or the fostering and nurturing of the natural 
world, that is the essence of Medicine. Even the most savage Winter Nunnehi 
regards the accumulation and use of Medicine with no small reverence. 
Speaking in general terms, the Nunnehi may gather Medicine from artistic 
performances much the same way as Kithain do, although they are two Traits 
down on all tests to do so unless the artist is Native American and performing 
a traditional piece. On the downside, the difficulty to enchant mortals increases 
by one in the confines of a city since the unnatural state of the land interferes 
with the Nunnehi’s spiritual essence and makes sharing their gifts with others 
harder than usual. 
The deep connection Nunnehi have to the natural world makes them 
generally more vulnerable to Banality. Regardless of how sensitive they are in 
game terms, most Nunnehi shun it like few other fae save the sidhe. Most go 
to great lengths to divest themselves of temporary Banality whenever possible, 
considering it to be sign of spiritual taint -fasting, sweat lodges, drum rituals 
and other traditional rites are all common means Nunnehi use to lower their 
Banality, though whether they are actually successful in game terms depends on 
the standard rules regarding reducing such Traits. All changelings feel the cold 
grip of Banality encroaching on them, but for the Nunnehi this fear goes even 
deeper, for it threatens to unseat their very spirits and divorce them from the 
natural harvest of Medicine that is the gift of all living things. 
Songs of power 
Nunnehi cantrips are no different from those of their Kithain counterparts 
- 
they require an Art to decide what is happening, a Realm to determine who 
it is happening to, and a Bunk to gather the Medicine for the cantrip to 
function. However, while the Kithain draw on all manner of different sources, 
theories and justifications to explain their magical abilities, the Nunnehi as a 
whole agree on the origin of their powers. They believe their magic stems from 
the spirits of the Higher Hunting Grounds who teach the Nunnehi as the need 
for them arises. Most Nunnehi treat cantrips as a serious trust, not to be wasted 
on frivolous pursuits. 
Finally, it is important to note that Nunnehi are not openly divided 


- 
all Nunnehi must sing, chant, hum or even just whisper some nonsense 
syllables in order to enact their magic, in &tion to any Bunks they perform for 
the cantrip. Note that it is the intent to sing the song ofpower that matters, not 
necessarily that they need to be heard - 
a gagged or otherwise silenced 
Nunnehi can still use her powers as long as she is trying her best to sing, provided 
of course that she can still carry out the Bunk required in addition to her singing. 
Most Nunnehi also carry some kindofmedicine bag-apouchfilled with items 
and elements important to them-and 
will not work their cantrips without it, 
though it is not actually required in game terms. Some Nunnehi also prefer to 
activate their magic through dance or playing an instrument rather than 
singing, and these are acceptable substitutes, provided they are appropriately 
traditional - 
no modem tunes or club dancing! This doesn’t mean that all 
Bunks must take a long time to perform - 
the Nunnehi recognize that there 
are times when you need some magic and need it now -but simply that they 
carry a traditional flavor regardless of length or content. 
Many Nunnehi restrict their cantrip use to tribal ceremonies and rituals, 
working their songs of power into the chants and dances already included in the 
rite. This not only allows them to perform valuable magic for their tribe, but it 
also renews the faith in the ancient ways that sustain them, making it a benefit 
for all involved. Of course, there are those Nunnehi who abuse their power, 
particularly in these dark times, and seek only personal power and gain from 
them. These unfortunates frequently make terrible bargains with dark spirits to 
get what they desire, and tribes do their best to ferret them out and get them 
to change their ways whenever possible. As a whole, though, the Nunnehi 
regard their powers as a sacred trust and do not use either Medicine or cantrips 
lightly. 
Players should bear all of this in mind when designing Bunks for their 
characters - 
while they shouldn’t descend into stereotype, they should do 
their best to make their cantrips in general and Bunks in particular different 
from the Bunks used by the Kithain. Not only does this reflect the unique 
traditions and practices of Nunnehi lineage, but it also helps them get a feel for 
the different perspective that the Nunnehi have on their world and their magic. 
Of course, as with most things Nunnehi, it cannot be stressed how valuable 
even just a little bit of research can be in turning up ideas for possible chants 
and ceremonies to use as Bunks, but even those without the time or resources 
for such work can still emulate them with a little thought and an eye toward 
making the experience as spiritual as possible. 
Haroesting, qaibing anb dessing 
Most Nunnehi prefer to gather Medicine from natural sources: beautiful 
vistas, quiet glens, etc. They have three ways of doing so: Harvesting, Raiding, 
and Blessing. Harvesting is the Nunnehi equivalent of Reverie, and is handled 
with the same system, except a Mental Challenge is employedand the Nunnehi 


- 
lying in a field of flowers, dipping her toes in a stream, etc. Otherwise, the 
risks and benefits are entirely the same. 
Raiding, on the other hand, is the Nunnehi equivalent to Ravaging and 
involves the ripping of Glamour from a particular place instead of from a 
person, effectively tapping the power of the land to serve the Nunnehi’s needs. 
As it can damage the land for weeks or even years, this is considered at least as 
great a crime, if not a greater one, than stealing Glamour from a mortal, but 
even the most noble Nunnehi sometimes risk it when faced with truly dire 
need. However, those caught using this method to drain a sacred site’s 
Medicine face immediate banishment from the Nation, and if that’s all that 
happens to them, they’ve gotten off lightly - 
many Nunnehi have no qualms 
about executing one of their own who doesn’t have sense enough to respect the 
few freeholds and sacred places they have left. Raiding uses the same systems 
as Ravaging, but the Nunnehi also runs the additional risk of attracting the ire 
of angry spirits if she fails the Raiding Challenge. Such wrath comes entirely at 
the Narrator’s discretion, but any spirits so irked are typically distracting and 
highly unpleasant, and do not leave until the Nunnehi makes an sincere effort 
to appease them. 
Finally, Blessing uses the same game mechanics as Rapture but can be 
achieved only after a direct audience with the Nunnehi’s totem spirit. These 
audiences can only be granted in the totem’s realm in the Upper World, 
meaning that the Nunnehi must undergo a spirit quest to even reach the 
appropriate site, and even then totems only grant one such audience per season. 
Fortunately for the Nunnehi, most totems always honor such requests for an 
audience from their followers, assuming the character has been a faithful 
follower of the totem’s ways. Provided the character can reach the appropriate 
Realm, the Nunnehi must then make an impressive sacrifice and offer a 
performance or piece of artwork dedicated to her patron spirit. If the totem 
judges both to be worthy, the character receives a Blessing of Glamour; if not, 
she likely receives a long lecture on humility and the foolishness of petitioning 
a mighty spirit before one is truly ready. Remember that these august spirits 
expect no less than the absolute best in exchange for their time! 
Che House of the Spirits 
Nunnehi believe there are three worlds: the Upper World of totems, 
visions and spirits; the Middle World of humanity, or what is conventionally 
known as Earth; and the Lower World of death and decay. Great trods connect 
all of these places in the spirit world, and visiting these Realms is an important 
part of a Nunnehi’s life. 
The Upper World is largely a reflection of the Middle World, but is much 
more vivid and profound, full of mysteries and ideas that offer a glimpse at the 
“true nature” of things - 
an untrustworthy man has weasel-like features, a 


spirits can be found and the greatest gods and heroes dwell. Journeys to such 
places of power are extremely dangerous but offer courageous Nunnehi much 
wisdom if they complete their quest. 
By contrast, the Lower World is also a reflection of Earth, but one that is 
ashen, dull and decaying, a place of immense sadness and despair where the 
shades of the dead lament their state and watch the deeds of the living with 
hungry eyes. It is all too easy to enter the Lower World through the proper 
portals, should a character find one. The true difficulty lies in leaving it, for the 
dead thirst for the essence of life and will do their best to see that the Glamour- 
rich Nunnehi cannot escape. More detail on the Upper World can be found in 
Laws of the Wild; for the Lower World, consult Oblivion. 
As they realize that all things living and dead are part of the great cycle, 
Nunnehi who possess at least Basic Wayfare and one level of the Nature Realm 
may cross into the Upper World by stepping into a quantity of their chosen 
totem (as determined by the Background of the same name): a flowering bush, 
rock face, etc. The quantity of the totem required need not actually be the 
Nunnehi’s size, but must be in a natural form, and should be fairly substantial 
-a floral arrangement or small statue is not enough to cross over, while a small 
but well-tended garden of flowers or boulder is acceptable. In addition, all 
Nunnehi who meet the basic Art and Realm requirements may cross over using 
a body of pure water, regardless of their personal totem. Nunnehi cannot cross 
into the Lower World on their own unless they find a site specifically dedicated 
to this purpose, although they may still use the Spirit Link Art to speak to its 
ghosts. 
System: In order to cross over to the Upper World, the Nunnehi must 
touch a quantity of her totem material, perform a Bunk and win a Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty of the Banality level of the area (retest with 
Gremyre). If the Nunnehi also possesses the Portal Passage Art and the Verdant 
Forest Nature Realm, all such difficulties are lowered by two. The Nunnehi may 
bring others along if they hold hands and the Nunnehi spends one Medicine 
Trait for each “passenger.” Guests had best mind their manners, as those who 
cannot cross over on their own are stuck if the Nunnehi abandons them on the 
other side, in which case they must seek out a special trod to get home - 
not 
an easy task! With or without passengers, crossing over is considered to take 
about 30 seconds (six combat turns), though this process may be made instant 
with the expenditure of two Medicine Traits. 
Note: While the Nunnehi exist in and interact with the Near Dreaming, 
as all changelings do, and can enter freeholds and walk local trods normally, the 
break between the Higher Hunting Grounds and the mortal world normally 
makes it impossibk for them to enter the Far or Deep Dreaming at all. Those 
attempting to do so simply fail and quickly fall back to the Banality of the mortal 
world if they persist in trying. This is the result of a deep spiritual sundering on 


be circumvented through any known means. Like it or not, the Nunnehi are 
confined to the part of the Dreaming closest to Earth, and to wherever they 
choose to travel in the Umbra. Naturally, there are rumors of special gateways 
hidden deep in the Umbra that allow access to the lost parts of the Higher 
Hunting Ground as well as certain legendary treasures or trods that may allow 
Nunnehi to cross over to their lost homelands, but for the time being at least 
they remain just that - 
rumors. 
Legacies 
Nunnehi have two Legacies, one Summer and one Winter, and choose 
which Legacy they will follow depending on their current Camp - 
Summer 
Nunnehi follow their Summer Legacy while Winter Nunnehi follow their 
Winter Legacy. While it is possible for them to switch abruptly from one Legacy 
to another, most often those Nunnehi who are in transition between Legacies 
spend some time in their Midseason Legacy before fully assuming their new 
aspect. 
Listed with each Legacy is a Vision and a Taboo; by acting to fulfill the 
Vision, the Nunnehi may refresh her Willpower since she is acting in accordance 
with her true nature and place in the world. By contrast, her Taboo is a 
prohibition she must respect, or she will feel increasingly adrift and listless. Like 
the Quests and Bans of Kithain Legacies, these are not intended to be 
straitjackets, but simply guides for how characters with those Legacies commonly 
act. 
Summer (mogwoob) Legacies 
Chief -A follower of Wolf and Eagle, you have both the wisdom to seek 
the best way to live and the disposition to lead others toward it. You step to the 
fore because that is what you are meant to do, not for any notions of power or 
popularity. Your Vision is best served when you convince others to follow a 
course of action you have decided upon, or otherwise display leadership skills 
in a convincing manner, but you have a Taboo against blindly following 
another’s lead. 
Grower -A student of natural rhythms and cycles, you realize all things 
come in their own time. You are patient in everything from planting crops to 
personal relationships. Like the corn in the field, you are part of the cycle of 
birth, growth, death and decay; your Vision rewards you for seeing something 
through from beginning to end, or when you encourage the growth of someone 
or something. However, you have a Taboo against starting anything you cannot 
finish. 
Healer - 
You cannot abide suffering and will go to great lengths to heal 
others, even your enemies; you are not above using extreme measures to treat 
a wound, for like the she-bear with her cubs you know that nurturing occasionally 
requires as much strength as mercy. Your Vision is advanced when you 


a strict Taboo to never ignore the pain of others. 
Hunter -All of life is a hunt of some kind -for food, for learning, even 
for meaning. You see yourself as a predator in the great predator/prey dichotomy 
of the universe. Like the mountain lion and the hawk, you choose only the most 
worthy targets and do your best to provide for your tribe with the spoils. Your 
Vision is advanced each time you complete a successful “hunt,” for food or some 
less tangible goal, but you hold a Taboo against ever willingly putting yourself 
in the position of being the one who is hunted. 
Maker -A student of Ant and Beaver, you love creation in and of itself, 
and delight in seeing your work bring tangible change to the world around you. 
Your Vision rewards you whenever you use your skills to make something useful 
or lasting for those around you, but you have a Taboo against acting as if the 
situation cannot be improved through the application of hands and will. 
Scout - 
There is so much still to explore in the world, and you are always 
eager to confront the unknown and bring back knowledge of it to your tribe. As 
Snake and Fox have taught you, sometimes it is best to observe, and sometimes 
it is best to act swiftly and silently. You enjoy the h i t s  of your Vision when you 
successfully explore new territory (physically, mentally, emotionally) or bring 
back important new information to your companions. However, you have a 
Taboo against passing up any opportunity to be the first to discover something 
new. 
Spirit Guide- A born shaman and student of the wind, which flows freely 
between the many worlds, you are deeply tied to the movements of the spirits 
around you and tend to view things from their perspective. You delight in 
offering guidance to others about the great journey of life. Your Vision becomes 
clearer every time you complete a personal vision quest or serve as the impetus 
for another’s spiritual growth, and observe always a strict Taboo against 
ignoring messages from the spirit world or knowingly offending a spirit. 
Storyteller - 
Life is a series of tales and parables, and you take pride in 
telling these tales so that others can see the lessons to be learned from them. 
Like the stones of the earth, which contain the stories of the world, you strive 
to gather as much knowledge as you can and pass it on to others. Your Vision 
advances every time you learn a new story or use a tale that you know to 
significantly aid your companions, but your Taboo forbids you from hoarding 
your knowledge - 
you must share what you know. 
Warrior -You 
see life as a battle, either literally or metaphorically, and 
apply yourself to its challenges with a badger’s courage and tenacity. You know 
that defense is sometimes just as important as offense. You will bleed the last 
of your blood before allowing one under your protection to be harmed. Your 
Vision takes form when you emerge victorious from single combat or when your 
prowess significantly turns the tide of battle. Your Taboo is to never retreat from 
a fair battle, nor to ever give in to fear. 


watching and listening as much as acting, and over time others in your tribe 
have learned to come to you for counsel, for your words are measured and fair. 
Your Vision rewards you whenever someone follows your advice and benefits 
from it, but your Taboo demands that you never turn down a request for help 
or counsel. 
Mibseasan (Laurel) Legacy 
Trickster -A follower of Raven and Coyote, you realize that most people 
take life far too seriously. You do your best to show others that as much wisdom 
lies in laughter and trickery as any of their vaunted notions of serious 
philosophy. Your Vision laughs with you when you keep others from taking 
themselves too seriously, or when you can turn a solemn occasion into a farce; 
even your Taboo is fun - 
to never fail to find the humor in a situation! 
Winter (sock) Legacies 
Cannibal - 
All else falls to the wayside when it comes to satisfying your 
hunger - 
whether it is for food, sex, material goods or anything else does not 
matter, so long as you do not let anyone block you from sating yourself. By 
consuming things, you hope to gain their power and pattern yourself after the 
fish that consume their own young when times are hard. Your Vision affirms 
your way whenever you get the lion’s share of the spoils or benefits at the 
expense of others, while your Taboo forbids you from ever restricting yourself. 
Fool - 
This existence is nothing but folly, a meaningless and painful 
journey ending in utter futility. Like the mayfly, whose life is frantic, short and 
pointless, you seek to show others the emptiness behind all things; your Vision 
offers support when you make someone see the pointlessness of an action or goal, 
while your Taboo requires that you never take anyone or anything seriously. 
Forked-Tongue - 
Why tell the truth when lies are so much more fun? 
You delight in using false sincerity, twisted words and facile logic to tell others 
what they want to hear. While you are good at making promises, you positively 
excel at breaking them. Like water, you change your shape to fit whatever place 
you find yourself in, and your Vision moves forward whenever you lie 
convincingly to someone and get away with it. Likewise, your Taboo bars you 
from telling the truth when a lie or half-truth serves you better. 
Hoarder - 
Long ago, you learned that no one provides for you save 
yourself, and you amass great quantities of anything you feel you need - 
food, 
money, Medicine, whatever. Like the squirrel, who spends his days gathering 
food against hard times, you care nothing for sharing or helping others. Your 
Vision recognizes your dedication whenever your hoarding instinct pays off, 
especially if others are in need. Your Taboo forbids you from willingly surrendering 
anything you have gained for yourself. 
Outcast -One who walks apart from the tribe, you are fiercely indepen- 
dent, owing nothing to anyone and seeking no one’s counsel but your own. For 


who makes his way in the world without a pack. Your Vision offers solace 
whenever you prove that you do not need anyone or anything to survive, but 
your Taboo bans you from permanently associating with any group or individual. 
Raider -A student of Magpie, who takes whatever she finds pleasing, you 
let others do the hard work then swoop in and help yourself to the benefits. A 
good fight isn’t out of the question, so long as you win, and the weak are nothing 
but sources of sustenance and entertainment to you. Your Vision goads you on 
whenever you get something without earning it, or pull off a successful “raid.” 
Your Taboo requires that you never waste your time in “honest” effort. 
Scalp-Taker - 
You measure your success in the world as tangibly as 
possible, anddelight in taking trophies of yourpast victories, whether proverbial 
or otherwise. If wronged, your vengeance requires not only retribution, but such 
action that the target is forever marked by your wrath. You emulate the lynx, 
who toys with her prey before killing it. Your Vision rewards you when you bring 
back proof of your accomplishments. Your Taboo declares that you must never 
fail to boast about your accomplishments. 
Spoiler - 
You cannot swallow the success of others, and humiliate and 
ridicule them in order to feel better about your own deeds. Like fire, which 
destroys that which cannot stand up to it, you seek to ensure that no deeds but 
your own meet approval in the eyes of others. Your Vision encourages this 
whenever you make yourself look good at someone else’s expense, and your 
Taboo forbids you from ever acknowledging the achievements of others. 
Troublemaker -A student of the blue jay, apest among birds, you simply 
cannot leave well enough alone and do not feel fulfilled unless you’ve caused 
some dissent or helped a long-running feud at last boil over. A relationship in 
trouble is a relationship ended if you’re nearby. Your Vision takes another step 
whenever you turn a peaceful situation into chaos or cause dissension between 
formerly solid allies; your Taboo is equally amusing to uphold - 
never turn 
your back on an opportunity to meddle. 
Witch - 
There is power in the spirit world, and you want it for yourself, 
no matter what the cost to body or soul might be. Forbidden lore is your passion, 
and you do not hesitate to use the power you have to advance yourself and your 
interests, no matter what it might do to others. Even the evil spirits of the Lower 
World are not off-limits to you. Your Vision moves forward when you use your 
skills or Arts to enhance your personal power. Your Taboo is to never do 
anything for anyone without exacting a price. 
Hunne hi Families 
Nunnehi do not recognize kiths, but Families. A whole Family is called a 
Nation; thus the origin of the title “Nunnehi Nations.” These sketches are 
rough outlines at best, and players should feel free to supplement the information 
provided here with their own research. 


only when dealing with the enchanted world unless the Nunnehi calls upon the 
Wyrd to make his fae self visible for a time in the mundane world. 
Canotili (Cree awellers) 
Reclusive spirits of the grasslands and forests of the Midwest, canotili (also 
known as canotina) shun cities and other developed areas even more than most 
Nunnehi, preferring to keep to themselves in camouflaged lairs out in the 
wilderness they love. Among their fellow Nunnehi, they are known as peerless 
hunters and woodsmen, whose skill at bringing down even the most elusive 
game is well known across the Nations. They are traditionalists at heart and use 
only those tools and techniques that their ancestors did, spuming modem 
technology in favor of time-honored methods. 
Legend holds that to see a canotili presaged a death in the person’s family 
-this is an exaggeration, but based in the fact that canotili are normally so in 
tune with their surroundings that, when surprised, they exude the very essence 
of fear, often causing mortals to panic or even suffer heart attacks. Canotili also 
loved to test the courage and skill of hunters who came into their lands by 
scaring off game, playing tricks on them and making strange noises in the 
undergrowth; if the hunter was brave and pressed on despite these setbacks, or 
investigated the noises he heard, the canotili would reward him with small gifts 
of food. Would-be wanderers beware, however - 
the canotili value their 
privacy, and those who trespass on their lands without good cause can expect 
first a volley of annoyances and frights, then escalating acts of violence until the 
invaders are finally “persuaded” to leave.. . or worse. 
Though they dwell largely apart from even their fellow Nunnehi, canotili 
remain aproud folk, and their garb and equipment is always immaculately cared 
for. They prefer the traditional dress of the tribes they hail from to the dubious 
comfort of modem clothing, but no matter what they are wearing they have a 
gift for blending in with their surroundings, save for their eyes, which gleam like 
an animal’s unless they take pains to prevent it. Self-sufficient in the woods, 
they seldom take mortal jobs if they can avoid it, but can occasionally be found 
as forest rangers, hunting guides and other professions that allow them to spend 
as much time exploring and defending their lands as possible. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights 
Earth Blend: By remaining perfectly still, the canotili may change color 
to match her surroundings like a chameleon. There is no cost, but the player 
must cross her arms as if she were using Hidden Form to signify this Birthright’s 
use. Voluntary movement of any kind cancels this power immediately. Earth 
Blend functions only in areas of natural wilderness. This is a Wyrd Birthright, 
but only if the Nunnehi attempts to hide in view of mortals; canotili already 
hidden remain so even if mortals enter the area. 


Wiry and Rugged, which can never be permanently lost. 
Frailties 
Terror: When surprised, canotili exude a pheromone that causes powerful 
fear in nearby non-canotili; all such creatures must win a Simple Test (or spend 
a Willpower Trait) or flee in terror. Supernatural creatures do not flee, but 
instead strike out instinctively at the canotili, receiving a free retest on the first 
combat challenge resulting from the surprise. Canotili cannot control this fear 
response in any way (which is why this is a Frailty rather than a Birthright). 
lnuas (Spirit Helpers) 
Long reputed to be the wisest in the ways of the spirit world, inuas 
originally served as both guides and assistants to their native tribes of the Far 
North. They acted as go-betweens for spirits and humans alike, ensuring that 
both sides did the other no deliberate harm and repairing what damage was 
done as best they could. Inuas are fairly solitary, but more out of the knowledge 
that it is often difficult for others to understand their friendships with the spirits 
than any real desire to be alone. Indeed, they figure that those who truly need 
their guidance will seek them out regardless, and leave it at that. Many inuas 
form long-term friendships with one or two such mortals during their lives - 
shamans or otherwise - 
and take great care to protect them from dangers both 
physical and spiritual. 
Inuas are also natural shapechangers and may master a number of forms by 
the time they reach their elder years - 
they originally adopted these guises 
both as homage to the spirits that have taught them so much and as a way of 
appearing to the shamans they guide without revealing their identity to the 
community. The shapes they take are always of animals of some importance to 
the tribe, and the inuas appear as perfectly normal animals of that species, save 
for the fact that they are always small enough to fit in a shaman’s lodge or place 
of power (in the case of larger animals such as polar bears). Like the pooka 
Kithain, inuas treasure this ability to change shape, and most develop more 
stable friendships with their fellow animals than they do with mortals; regardless, 
they all come to absorb some of the unique perspective animals have on life, at 
once innocent and brutal, as is nature herself. It is rare for an inua to not know 
at least the basics of the Spirit Link Art, and most master it as they grow older, 
becoming more and more distant from this world in favor of the spiritual and 
animal worlds. 
Given their high susceptibility to pollutants and contaminants, inuas can 
generally be found only in the most remote reaches of Concordia - 
the need 
must be truly dire or the tale entirely tragic for them to linger near cities of any 
kind, and even then they can think only of being home with their animal 
companions. When it comes to professions, inuas prefer those that allow them 
to give sage advice - 
doctors, professors, clergy and the like are all popular, 
provided of course the inua can find schooling someplace tolerable. Inua appear 


at least one prominent amulet, if not more, and many also sport a traditional 
labret (a plug of ivory, bone or metal that pierces through the lower lip to form 
a chin decoration). Some also have an animalistic feature or two, carried over 
from the time they spend among their animal cousins. 
Affinity: Fae 
Birthrights 
Imbue Amulet: Inua may invest an amulet for their chosen shaman with 
a single Art, chosen from Chicanery, Legerdemain, Primal, Soothsay, Sovereign, 
Spirit Link or Wayfare. The power must also have a specific Realm attached 
(such as the Familiar Face level of the Actor Realm), and is only good for that 
particular Realm; furthermore, each amulet can only be used once. Amulets 
may be used by the unenchanted, though they must first make a test of their 
Banality versus the Glamour the inua had when investing it; if they succeed, 
the amulet fails as their natural disbelief robs it of its power. Investing an amulet 
is considered a sacred trust by the inua, not a means for greedy players to create 
a magic amulet factory. 
Change Form: Inua may freely change shape into one animal of a local 
type, chosen at character creation. A second shape may be learned during 
character creation as a five-Trait Merit. Finally, an additional shape may be 
learned when a character becomes a brave or an elder, at a cost of four 
Experience Traits. Though they do not need to isolate themselves like pooka, 
most inua prefer not to show off; regardless, the shift takes 10 seconds. This is 
a Wyrd Birthright. 
Frailties 
Susceptibility: Inua within a few yards of a pollutant (urban air pollution 
counts!) have a one-Trait penalty to all tests; those actually in direct contact 
with a pollutant are at a two-Trait penalty. 
Kachinas 
Keepers of ritual and tradition, the kachinas spend most of their days 
planning rituals and ceremonies, trying to keep the ancient ways alive. Natives 
of the Southwest still tell tales about how the kachinas first came down from 
the sky many centuries ago, teaching their ancestors the ways of honoring the 
spirits and preserving their ties to the natural world. The kachinas remain a 
force for tradition in the Nunnehi Nations. For their part, the kachinas 
commonly hold that each ritual performed, each prayer spoken, forms another 
link to the Higher Hunting Grounds, and that when enough links are made, the 
old paths will reopen. While most of their fellow Nunnehi believe this is 
somewhat deluded, none fault them for their devotion. The kachinas serve as 
some of the wisest advisors on matters of ritual and the spirit realm. 
The kachinas have earned the respect of the other Families for other 
reasons besides their wisdom. When the paths to the Higher Hunting Grounds 
were closing, the kachinas had a chance to flee back to the spirit realm, but 


remained close with their tribal communities ever since, living alongside or 
among their human relatives for generations, acting as mediators and teachers 
and helping bring harmony and plenty to their kin. The kachinas are not all 
seriousness and ceremony, however - 
clown kachinas form an important part 
of their faith, teaching others lessons about behavior through jest and satire, 
and many braves take on this role with great zeal, pouring their youthful 
exuberance into pranks that help their communities. 
Kachinas shy away from mortal professions as a rule, preferring to be where 
their tribes need them and earn their keep directly from their tribe members, 
though a few of them have found they enjoy positions as guides or museum staff, 
where they have a chance to teach natives and non-natives alike. As childlings 
and braves, they appear much the same as their mortal kin, though chimerically 
they are seldom dressed in anything but the finest ceremonial garb - 
those 
familiar with the dolls that bear their name can easily recognize them for what 
they are. Elders undergo a bizarre transformation, with their fae mien gradually 
shrinking in size until they look like living dolls. Due to this strange adjustment, 
most leave mortal society entirely, coming back only to offer aid and wisdom 
to their kin. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights 
Prayer of Plenty: With a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of 
seven Traits (retest with Occult), a kachina may cause a boom in plant growth 
and rainfall in an area, ensuring good crops. They do this only if their tribe 
performs the proper dances and ceremonies first. 
Cloud Form: With a Medicine Trait, the Nunnehi may transform into a 
cloud or wisp of smoke. They are immune to physical attacks and may float into 
the air in this shape, but they are at the mercy of the prevailing winds and must 
return to a safe height before changing back or else suffer falling damage. 
Changing back costs nothing but takes at least three turns to perform. An 
instantaneous change requires the expenditure of a Mental Trait. This is a 
Wyrd Birthright. 
Frailties 
Single Mind: Kachinas must choose one craft- or performance-related 
Ability on which they are especially focused. They must purchase at least one 
level of this Ability (most take more), and are considered one Trait up on all 
tests with it. However, they are two Traits down on all other craft- or 
performance-related tests due to their singular focus. 
Ma y-ma y-gwa y-shi (Rock Fishers) 
These slippery and clever Nunnehi of the Northeast are the subject of 
many legends of daring raids and cunning traps, especially when it comes to 
getting their hands on seafood, which they adore and go to great lengths to 
consume. They are likewise renowned for helping out those tribes they raid 


during more abundant times. Perhaps most remarkable of all is their talent for 
disappearing throughsolid rock walls, canoe and all, when pursued by particularly 
dedicated foes - 
a talent they have also been known to exploit to their 
advantage when staging ambushes of their own. 
Despite their reputation as raiders, the may-may-pay-shi are not innately 
wicked, but rather simply love to test their wits against others, and are equally 
gracious whether they win or lose, provided the competition was good. Those 
who are particularly clever, or who find some way to enter the well-hidden 
caverns in which the may-may-pay-shi hide, are rewarded well for their 
trouble, often with stones imbued with Medicine or even minor treasures for 
truly outstanding tricksters. They are an easygoing folk, and while they stilt 
carry resentment over their mortal tribes being relocated (largely to Maine), 
they do not hold it against most Kithain they meet, though such outsiders can 
expect to be the butt of many jokes before they’re fully accepted. In particular, 
this Family has taken a shine to the selkie kith, as well as those few aquatic 
pooka they know, and they can often be found playing together in remote coves 
or seaside towns. Those who push their good nature too far, however, discover 
just how fierce they are, and may awaken one morning to find themselves miles 
out at sea, with none but the sharks to keep them company.. .. 
May-may-gway-shi are typically short and lithe, with long, wild hair that 
they let grow down over their faces (thus earning them the epithet “hairy- 
faced” in many legends). They also sport a layer of fine, downy, waterproof fur 
- much like that of an otter - 
along their arms and legs. Most prefer 
occupations that allow them to sail and fish as much as possible, though they 
dislike going to sea for long, and prefer activities close to the coast. May-may- 
gway-shi dress very casually, in both mortal and faerie aspects, and have wide 
grins that are quite infectious to friends and strangers alike. 
Affinity: Scene 
Birthrights 
Door in the Rock: The Nunnehi may spend a Physical Trait to pass 
through a rock wall to the other side (or into a cave, if such is the case); she may 
also extend a single limb through the wall and withdraw it. By spending two 
Physical Traits, the Nunnehi may ride a vehicle (and anyone on or in it) safely 
through the wall as well. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Call the Swimmers: By spending a Social Trait, the Nunnehi may 
summon a netful of fish to him while fishing in an appropriate body of water. 
Frailties 
Weakness of Will: When confronted by a seafood feast or an unguarded 
fish supply (including a restaurant buffet, where applicable), the Nunnehi must 
spend a Willpower Trait to avoid immediately indulging themselves, and thus 
possibly leaving themselves open to any manner of ambushes or other tricks. 


Perhaps the most sociable of all theNunnehi, the nanehi (whose name also 
means “people who live anywhere,” and who loaned a form of their name to the 
Nunnehi Nations as a unification gift) are great performers and lovers of beauty 
who capture the essence of art both old and new with breathtaking talent. Great 
wanderers, they can most often be found following craft shows and powwow 
circuits, picking up new songs and crafts while supporting themselves with their 
own talents. They love stories as well and form a vital link in the oral histories 
of many of their tribes. While they prefer traditional tales, much the same as 
their taste in performance material, they do not limit themselves that way, and 
relish the telling as much or more as the tale itself. 
Though primarily a peaceful Family, the nanehi do their utmost to help 
those in need, relatives or not, and will go out of their way to aid the sick or 
injured, especially those lost in the wilderness. According to legend, the nanehi 
wait with the injured person or lost child, tending their wounds and keeping 
them calm until just before help arrives, whereupon they disappear into the 
wilds without a trace. While they cannot actually turn invisible, nanehi have 
a knack for modifying their looks and can disguise themselves with little 
trouble; unfortunately, this also makes them very proud of their appearance, 
and those who flatter a nanehi can quickly take advantage of his narcissism. 
Outside of this weakness, however, they are a very genial Family to be around 
and help hold the volatile coalition that is the Nunnehi Nations together. 
Nanehi love occupations that allow them to show off their good looks or 
their performing talent, not to mention keep them on the road as often as 
possible. They naturally gravitate toward careers as musicians, poets, dancers 
or traditional craftsmen. They have become somewhat close with the eshu kith 
over the years, finding they share an outsider’s perspective on the Kithain of 
Concordia, and can increasingly be found in their company. All nanehi are 
very concerned with their physical appearance, and become quite upset if 
anything happens to mar their perfect visages - 
they seldom dress in anything 
but the finest clothing and appear as idealized versions of their mortal tribes, 
with gorgeous dark hair and flashing eyes. 
Affinity: Fue 
Birthrights 
Shape the Body: By spending a Medicine Trait, the nanehi may alter her 
body anywhere between two feet in height to normal human size, make herself 
look older or younger, or temporarily add (or subtract) a Gorgeous Social Trait. 
Those hunting for the nanehi must win a Mental Challenge (retest with 
Kenning or Investigation) to recognize her if her form has been significantly 
altered; by the same token, the changed nanehi should wear a description card 
or otherwise clearly indicate her altered state to other players. This is a Wyrd 
Birthright, though nanehi who change their shape outside the sight of mortals 
can then enter their presence without difficulty. This change takes about a 
turn/six seconds to enact, though it ^ ^  
may take longer if the nanehi desires. 


v 
involving their voice and receive a free retest on all related tests if their 
performance involves traditional songs, tales or dances. 
Frailties 
Face in the Water: Nanehi are vain creatures, and are at a one-Trait 
penalty to resist any Social Challenges involving flattery, even if they know the 
person flattering them probably has evil intentions. They also have a one-Trait 
penalty to all challenges while their appearance is adversely affected (they are 
covered with mud, sweaty from fighting, etc.). 
Mumuzo’ho (Crushers of UJeople) 
These giants of the West embody the power of nature to destroy as well 
as create, and have no trouble demonstrating this to those who defile their 
sacred lands. Their strength is such that the stoutest troll is barely a match for 
them, and their hard skin makes it difficult to injure them even with modem 
weaponry. Even the most fearsome rock giants tend to keep their insults to 
themselves when it comes to irritating one of these temperamental titans. 
Though not evil, as some of the legends about them attest, many numuzo’ho 
are locked in their Winter Legacy due to the anger and disgust they feel over 
the state of the modern world, and even those who aren’t still tend to have 
short fuses. 
Sadly, their role as frontline warriors has put the numuzo’ho in dire straits 
as time goes by and the enemies of the Nunnehi accumulate, causing them to 
battle everything from mortal developers to imperialist sidhe lords and even 
occasional Prodigal foes. This continual fight has taken it toll on the Family, 
and there are precious few of them left, though to their credit that has not stayed 
their ire in the least, only forced them to fight a bit more cautiously than they 
have in the past. What’s more, all the elders of this tribe suffer from some 
deformity or another, which only gives the younger ones even greater cause to 
fight as hard as they can before their elder years overtake them and they lose 
the ability to join the fray as they once did. 
Numuzo’ho are tall and muscular, in both their fae mien and mortal form, 
and carry themselves with towering, almost military efficiency. Their eyes glow 
with unearthly radiance in their fae mien, often flashing or growing brighter as 
their temper rises. They take only the most antisocial mortal jobs they can find, 
and frequently choose to live in cabins they build in the wilderness, supporting 
themselves with their own skills and wreaking vengeance on those who dare to 
trespass or pollute their territory. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights 
Extraordinary Size: All numuzo’ho are extremely powerful and gain the 
Physical Traits Brawny, Muscular, Tough and Tireless. Furthermore, their tough 
skin allows them to ignore the first health level of damage dealt to them in any 


aggravated damage. This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Rouse the Elements: By spending a Willpower Trait and a Medicine 
Trait, the numuzo’ho may cause some powerful elemental disturbance: a storm, 
an earthquake, etc. What occurs is at the Storyteller’s discretion, but this power 
may only be used once per phase of the moon, and using it for selfish or 
inappropriate goals angers the local spirits, who may refuse the power until the 
character atones and shows them the proper respect. 
Frailties 
Weight of Years: Upon becoming an elder, the numuzo’ho loses an arm, 
leg or eye to age and decrepitude, though by this time many of them have 
suffered quite a few other wounds in the course of their defense of the 
wilderness. However, this particular loss cannot be healed or averted in any 
way, and should be represented by using the appropriate Flaw (Lame, One Eye, 
etc.), but the character gains no Traits for it. Storytellers should take care that 
the full extent of this Flaw be felt - 
it is the price the numuzo’ho pay for their 
great strength, and they can too easily become a “super-kith” if it’s ignored. 
Pu’gwis 
Few other stories in the Nunnehi Nation are as sad as that of the pu’gwis 
- 
once the most beautiful of all the Nunnehi, their boasting eventually 
attracted the ire of powerful spirits who decided to teach them a lesson about 
humility and cursed them with the visages of corpses. Though some legends 
claim they possessed their vocal talents all along, popular contention holds that 
the pu’gwis were further cursed with beautiful voices, so that they lured mortals 
to them only to scare them away when their true faces became evident. Now 
the pu’gwis live lonely lives in the deep wilderness, surrounded by animal 
friends and doing their best to keep their homes from being destroyed by logging 
companies. Occasionally, they venture back to their mortal tribes, offering aid 
and small gifts to the less fortunate of the community, but most of the time they 
avoid contact altogether, not wanting to accidentally frighten their kin. 
If any good can be said to have come of their condition, however, it’s that 
the pu’gwis have learned their lesson well, and truly do look out for their forest 
homes, as well as those folk they encounter who have less than others. Most 
pu’gwis try to fight their curse, searching for a lover who can see past their 
hideous looks, and no few actually wind up becoming involved with a blind 
person, defending their relationships with such fierceness that none doubt the 
truth of their passion. Though they remain aloof from others to avoid exposing 
them to their curse, pu’gwis care deeply about the problems of others and will 
listen for hours to a person in need of solace or comfort. Even those who are 
drawn by their beautiful songs but then reject the pu’gwis on account of their 
monstrous looks are seldom subjected to any form of revenge - 
they are simply 
sung into forgetfulness of the encounter and left somewhere safe. 


.
.
 
or sallow complexions and thin, almost nonexistent lips - 
to faerie sight, 
however, they are truly hideous, with emaciated, corpselike bodies and faces out 
of a horror movie. Their skin is stretched tight and seems almost transparent, 
offering nauseating visuals of muscles and fluids at work underneath, while their 
lips pull back to reveal rotting teeth in an intimidating skeletal grin. Their noses 
are nonexistent, as if rotted away, and their eyes are yellowish, almost as if they 
will flow from their sockets at any moment. Pu’gwis seldom hold down any jobs 
in the mortal world, but out of fear rather than the normal simple self-sufficiency 
of most Nunnehi who walk the same path; they’d like to join society, but their 
curse forbids any close ties. They walk alone. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights 
Song of Beckoning: Pu’gwis may call others to them with a hypnotic song; 
targets are called with a successful Social Challenge against their Willpower. 
This may be retested with the Performance Ability. Supernatural creatures may 
cancel this power by spending a Willpower Trait, though those easily fascinated 
by beauty (such as many changelings and some Prodigals) must make a 
Willpower Challenge if they wish to do so. 
Song of Dismissal: The pu’gwis may use another song to remove all 
memories of him from those around him with a successful Social Challenge, 
which can be retested with the Perjimnce Ability. Use the normal mob scene 
rules if testing against multiple targets and remember that all within hearing 
range must make the test, allies or otherwise. Those who were summoned by the 
Song of Beckoning use only half their Traits to resist. Only the target’s memories 
of the pu’gwis from the current scene are affected by this power, though those 
who only met them in the current scene forget the character entirely. 
Frailties 
Decay: No pu’gwis may have more than three Strength-related Physical 
Traits (such as Brawny or Wiry), and to any other fae or enchanted beings they 
automatically gain the Negative Social Traits: Repugnant x 3, which can never 
be bought off. They should also describe or use makeup to alert others to their 
corpselike visage. This is a Wyrd Frailty, although even in human form pu’gwis 
have a permanent Repugnant Trait, and they may never take any beneficial 
Appearance-related Social Traits. Their true visages automatically become 
apparent any time they attempt to woo or otherwise become intimate with 
another, likely causing the mortal to either flee in terror or pass out in shock- 
no known magic can prevent or disguise this transformation. 
~ o c k  
Giants 
Those unfortunates who still subscribe to the Hollywood-driven notion 
that all Native Americans (and, by extension, the Nunnehi) are noble, caring 
and wise in the ways of the spirit world - 
rather than being real people with 
real attitudes, likes and dislikes - 
are often taken aback when they meet the 


and especially fond of the Mohawk and Seneca tribes, these fae are featured in 
many legends as fearsome cannibals and terrible foes; a number of tales also 
speak of rock giants befriending those who can best them in some test of 
strength and subsequently staying by their side even against terrible odds. 
Indeed, it is this undying loyalty that is one of the Family’s redeeming features, 
though none doubt their prowess when it comes time to call a war party 
together, and those who underestimate their cunning suffer for it. 
For their part, the rock giants see life through a very simple lens: strength and 
toughness are the most important virtues, eating well and fighting often the most 
common hobbies. Simplistic, maybe, but more than enough for them. For this 
reason, they are often likened to Kithain redcaps, and the two groups have a 
strange relationship indeed. If they meet in a situation where they can bond 
through the same activities, they become fast friends and to hell with what 
anyone else thinks. If the meeting is on less agreeable circumstances, however, 
they become unswerving enemies, too much alike to do anything but fight. 
Regardless of such ties, all rockgiants take life as it comes and meet it withcourage 
and directness; in this fashion the nicer ones among them have a habit of bringing 
their less-grounded cousins back down to earth. Their lesssocial members, 
however, are little better than sharks on two legs, fighting and eating anything 
in their path. Some rock giants do indeed practice cannibalism, though only the 
most depraved of their Winter kin do so in anything other than a symbolic 
manner not that even their Summer kin will admit as much, as they know how 
much it intimidates their opponents to worry about what will happen if a rock 
giant gets his hands on them.. .. 
In their fae mien, the natural size and power of the rock giants becomes 
literal stone, so that they appear to be rough-cut sculptures given life. They 
have stalactite hair and obsidian pools for eyes, and most can be mistaken for 
boulders if they curl up and hold still. Rock giants like rough and tumble 
professions: steelworkers, bouncers, bodyguards and the like. Their society is 
strictly run by the females, who have the final say on what their cousins (and 
especially their male cousins) may do, and even those males who do lead know 
that they do so only at the sufferance of the females. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights 
Flint Coat: Rock giants gain an additional Healthy health level, and any 
attacks by stone weapons -magical or otherwise -do no damage whatsoever. 
This is a Wyrd Birthright. 
Prowess: All braves gain the Physical Trait Brawny, which may never be 
permanently lost; elders gain an additional Brawny Trait. Rock giants also gain 
a free level of the Brawl Ability, which may never be permanently lost. 
Frailties 


blow must be struck against the offender or a champion the offender chooses 
before the rock giant can put her temper to rest. 
Surems (yaqui Little dDeople) 
The Dreaming is fond of teaching that appearances are often deceiving, 
and the surems are living proof: Though small of stature, they nonetheless 
possess great physical strength and even greater strength of conviction. Legend 
tells that the surems once were fierce warriors, and some claim they even battled 
the earliest settlers, but the high cost of warfare taught this tribe the ways of 
peace at last. Now they are tirelessly committed to bringing harmony wherever 
they go. As such, they are the Nunnehi most commonly encountered by the 
Kithain since the more sensible and cool-headed Families employ them as 
negotiators and arbitrators. For their part, the surems view the Kithain with a 
more open mind than most Nunnehi - 
while they have seen the Kithain at 
their worst, they are too understanding to hold a grudge for long and think it 
better to work out differences than try to settle old blood feuds. 
Aside from the nanehi, whose company they are fond of, the surems also 
form close ties with the mortal communities they hail from, and even those who 
leave the Southwest usually carry some reminder with them at all times. Unlike 
most of their Nunnehi cousins, they do not remove themselves from their 
mortal relatives but live and work alongside them, trying to bring about the 
betterment of all. They have a great love of quiet, however, and will do much 
to preserve it, feeling that a quiet atmosphere is essential to cultivate a 
harmonious existence with other people and the natural world. They are 
sometimes accused by other Nunnehi ofbeing traitors for preferring negotiation 
and diplomacy to outright confrontation with the Europeans, an accusation 
that wounds them deeply. In response, they say only that while they will not 
allow themselves or their loved ones to come to harm, the way of violence 
nearly destroyed them in the past, and they will not travel down that road again. 
Those who push them too far often find that the surems still remember much 
of their warrior days, and those who do battle expecting them to give in have 
an unpleasant surprise waiting. While they seldom kill their foes if it can be 
avoided, surems are more than willing to ensure that they do not pose a threat 
for some time. 
Surems are among the most human-seeming of the Nunnehi; even in their 
fae mien, they remain very much the image of their Yaqui relatives, though 
slightly smaller. Many wear a medicine bag prominently or carry a peace pipe 
or similar item with them at all times. They are quick to step between two 
feuding parties, regardless of who those parties might be. In their mortal lives, 
surems prefer sedate, quiet occupations where they can study old lore or bring 
understanding between those in crisis: librarian, family therapist, religious 


need in their efforts to spread harmony to others, so long as it allows them the 
quiet they treasure. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights 
Serenity: By spending a Social Trait and succeeding on a Social Challenge 
against those in range, the surem may exude an air of serenity for five paces 
around herself. Anyone already within that range (or who enters later) must 
spend a Willpower Trait to remain or become agitated, though those affected 
may still defend themselves if the need arises. The effect is broken for all 
concerned if the surem takes any aggressive action. The effects of this aura 
include any allies, as well as the surem herself, and lasts for one scene. Surems 
may perform an appropriate Bunk (typically a peace pipe ritual or similar 
ceremony) to receive additional Traits when invoking this Birthright; each 
additional Bunk Trait adds one pace to the radius of the aura. 
Congeniality: Surems receive one free retest on all Social Challenges 
related to promoting peace, trust or friendship. This includes any applicable 
cantrips, but only if they are sincerely intended to further those goals. This 
Birthright cannot be applied if the surem is simply using her song of power to 
manipulate another. All surems receive a free Diplomatic Social Trait, which 
can never be permanently lost. 
Frailties 
Plowshares: Surems must win a Simple Test to resort to violence (includ- 
ing speaking harshly), and are one Trait down on all tests while acting in a 
violent manner. Note that surems may always defend themselves and those in 
their care normally, but unless they win the Simple Test, they cannot injure 
their opponent in return, only prevent them from causing harm. 
Thought Crafters (Algonquin 8 uzzle Folk) 
Previously believed extinct, these clever Nunnehi returned with new life 
during the recent efforts to revitalize the scattered Algonquin tribe, and have 
been busy setting up new relations with their mortal cousins and the descendants 
of the settlers who displaced them (not to mention their Kithain counterparts). 
Ever an adaptable people, they have accepted that their previous way of life 
must change if they hope to survive, and they approach such problems with 
their characteristic good cheer and knack for problem solving. The one thing 
they do not accept, however, is the same harsh treatment that they received the 
last time they tried to forge ties with the newcomers. They have adjusted their 
negotiation strategies accordingly - 
this time it is either equal footing or 
nothing at all, and they’re more than willing to back it up by any means 
necessary. 
According to old tales, thought-crafters are descended from the great hero 
Manabus, who brought mortals the secret of fire and many other survival skills. 
None can deny the ingenuity these Nunnehi display, and their ability to come 


(not to mention favor) of many other Families. For example, they solved the 
problem of diminishing land space for freeholds by creating “living history” 
villages on their ancestral lands, where they can “re-enact” the old ways in full 
view of the public, harvesting Medicine from the site even as they inform 
mortals on the beliefs and practices of their tribes. They are acknowledged 
experts at trickery and have a deep love of puzzles, pranks and other enigmas, 
both as learning exercises for themselves and teaching tools for others. Most are 
constantly toying with some kind of puzzle, if only to keep their agile and 
energetic minds occupied. They have a gift for inspiration as well and have 
brought more than one exhausted Dreamer or banal faerie back to their true self 
with a clever puzzle or cunning trick; their fruitful quests for Medicine are 
legendary. 
In their mortal lives, thought-crafters eagerly pursue those professions that 
allow them to exploit both their ready wits and agile hands: inventor, toymaker 
and architect are a few favorites, but by no means the only ones, as thought- 
crafters tend to follow their passion wherever it takes them. They prefer to live 
in secluded villages or retreats, cunningly crafted to blend into their surroundings, 
though they also live among their tribe if they are feeling sociable. In their fae 
mien, they appear as idealized members of their tribe, with long fingers, 
gleaming eyes and ready smiles. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights 
Nimble Fingers, Clever Minds: Thought-crafters receive free Ckver and 
Dexterous Traits, which cannot be permanently lost. In addition, they are 
considered one Trait up in all tests involved with solving enigmas or delicate 
physical manipulation (not combat). 
Inspiration: Thought-crafters have a powerful bond with the Higher 
Hunting Grounds; all successful attempts to harvest Medicine gain theNunnehi 
an extra Glamour Trait, though this cannot take her over her normal maximum. 
In addition, they may likewise inspire other Nunnehi who join them in their 
quest to gather Medicine, provided they are nearby when the harvesting occurs. 
Finally, they may restore some measure of creativity to Ravaged mortals and 
deeply banal changelings. Provided they are in close contact with the target for 
a scene or hour (whichever is longer), the thought-crafter may give mortals 
back their creative knack and restore a Glamour Trait to a fellow changeling. 
This form of inspiration may only be used on a given target once per day and 
cannot be used on the thought-crafter herself. Whether an Undone changeling 
can be brought back by this means is up to the Storyteller, but such an event 
should be rare and wonderful indeed. 
Frailties 
Call of the New: Thought-crafters are highly curious. Whenever one is 
confronted with the opportunity to do something he’s never done before, he 


This does not apply to obviously suicidal actions - these Nunnehi are 
experimental, not crazy -but 
anything shy of that is certainly fair game. 
Tunghat (Green Owarues, Owners) 
Once, the bond between animals and hunters was a sacred trust, with 
hunters offering prayers and sacrifices to ensure a good hunt and honor the 
animals they had slain, while the weakest and oldest animals accepted the 
honor of sacrificing themselves so their fitter cousins could live. In modem 
times, however, this cycle is all but ignored, as weekend warriors come out 
during hunting season armed with high-powered weaponry, blasting at anything 
that moves, killing for the joy of destruction. It is a sad time for the animal 
kingdom, but perhaps saddest of all for the tunghat, whose duty it was to ensure 
harmony between hunters and animals, who have been cast aside even by many 
of their own tribes in the rush of “progress.” Their ties to their animal brothers 
have not diminished, however, and the tunghat still feel their pain and 
confusion as they are taken from life without warning; this causes the formerly 
playful tunghat to be among the most depressed and withdrawn of the Nunnehi, 
as they are only too keenly aware of their lost role. 
In times past, the tunghat held a place of great honor in most tribes, acting 
as a liaison between the tribe and the animal world; those who hunted after 
participating in their ceremonies always came back with a choice kill, as a 
measure of the tunghat’s thanks, while the tunghat did their best to scatter 
animals, sabotage equipment and otherwise punish those who hunted without 
the sacred rites. This occasionally brought them in conflict with the canotili, 
who shared many of their lands and liked to hunt as they pleased, and the two 
Families have a tenuous alliance at best, riddled with many old grudges. In the 
present day, this serves only to further the tunghat impression that they are 
without friends or recourse when it comes to dealing with hunters and other 
despoilers of their land. Some tunghat have started leading their animal friends 
in raids against cities and towns that cause them grief, though this has a 
tendency to backfire and cause even more suffering in the long term. Many 
braves have succumbed to Banality and despair in the modern era, feeling 
powerless to save their friends. Battling this trend is a topic of growing 
importance to the Family, if they hope to see another generation. 
Those tunghat who take mortal professions typically only do so when on the 
verge of giving in to Banality, but eventhose that do always find work with animals: 
veterinarians, animal trainers, even (saddest of all) pet store owners. Most prefer to 
live in the traditional grass tipis of their ancestors, out among their animal friends, 
but an increasing number are moving to the city or living in trailers. Tunghat are 
small and stocky in their mortal seeming, and shrink further in their fae mien, 
gaining dark green skin with darker green hair, teeth and nails. They favor woven 
grass ponchos that help them blend in with their beloved grasslands, and most have 
an animal companion or two near them constantly. 


Birthrights 
Animal Illusion: All tunghat have a chosen animal type that they are 
especially close to, like the pooka Kithain, and by spending a Medicine Trait, 
the tunghat makes others (including animals) see him as an animal of that type. 
This illusion is always slightly flawed, and those with Heightened Senses and 
similar powers may see through it with a Mental Challenge. This animal affinity 
is acquired during the naming ceremony and is based on the first animal seen 
after the ceremony is over. Typical animals include deer, rabbits, antelopes, 
coyotes, birds, foxes and bears. This affinity does not change during a tunghat’s 
life and must always be an animal species native to Concordia; animals from 
exotic lands do not bond with the tunghat. 
Summon the Herd: By spending a Social Trait, the tunghat may bond 
with a type of animal. By winning a Social Challenge, the tunghat may summon 
animals of that type who are within a half day’s travel, determine their general 
health and appeal to them to give up their lives for the good of others if 
necessary. 
Frailties 
Animal Mind: A tunghat who maintains an animal illusion for more than 
half an hour must win a Mental Challenge against six Traits or forget he is not 
actually an animal of that type. This test must be made every half hour, until 
the tunghat either reverts back or fails the test. If the latter occurs, he begins 
acting in an animal manner and even wanders toward nearby hunters. He can 
only be brought out of this with the expenditure of a Willpower Trait or the 
intervention of other characters to convince him that he is not an animal. 
Water cilabies 
Dark tales surround this enigmatic Family - 
that they steal children, pull 
people under the water to drown them, and that they have long polluted their 
bloodlines by mixing with non-native people. Few of the other Nunnehi seek 
them out for any reason, and those who do report a baffling mixture of 
innocence and cruelty, spirituality and practicality, and most decide they were 
better off avoiding these reclusive spirits. For their part, the water babies are 
guilty of all the “crimes” they are accused of, but only after afashion. Sadly, most 
Nunnehi and non-Nunnehi never stop to discern the difference, so the water 
babies go about their work alone. 
It is true that water babies have stolen children away, but only those 
children who are abused and neglected; they treasure children, and most would 
no sooner harm one than they would rub glass into their gills. They keep these 
children in their lairs, underwater grottoes or remote caves, and raise them as 
best they can, doing everything possible to provide for them. It is also true that 
they pull people underwater and drown them, but they do this only to those who 
harm children or who pollute their sacred waters. Water babies have their own 
supernatural means of determining a target’s guilt or innocence in the matter. 


long had a custom of arranging marriages when the children in their care come 
of age, and no few children have chosen to remain with the water babies, 
meaning that their blood has indeed mingled more freely than the other 
Nunnehi. They fail to see how this is a problem, but apparently it bothers the 
other Families. Water babies are also acutely aware that they cannot save all the 
abused children in need and have long practiced their Medicine to help the 
spirits of the unfortunates they failed to save find rest in the next world, since 
this one was so harsh to them. 
Water babies appear as curiously androgynous beings, which in the past led 
many of the Far West tribes of their native lands to believe that they were 
entirely female. In their fae mien they all have long, flowing hair and webbed 
hands and feet, as well as small gills that allow them to breathe underwater. 
What clothing they wear is designed to be easily removed, and their hair is 
typically their only adornment underwater. In their mortal seeming, they 
appear as normal humans, with their gills closing up to appear as little more 
than tiny, almost invisible scars. While they shun most mortal professions 
because of their water dependency, they can sometimes be found as swimming 
teachers, lifeguards or park rangers around a particular lake, a lake that happens 
to see a number of curious “accidents” and disappearances as the water baby 
does her job. 
Note: While this should be obvious to those players with the barest shred 
of common sense, the no-touching rule still applies when roleplaying a water 
baby’s unique talent for vengeance. If your game is near a lake/pool/Jacuzzi/etc. 
and your Storyteller graciously permits you to hang out in said body of water as 
part of “being in character,” you still must not touch or grab other players in any 
way, especially if your intent is to pull them in (even if only as a “joke”). Not 
only is this a big safety hazard, but you may also ruin someone else’s costume 
and/or makeup, not to mention cause some serious bad feelings out of game. 
Don’t do it. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights 
Synthesize Air: Water babies and those they are touching may breathe 
freely underwater. They use this to bring children to their hidden freeholds and 
sometimes to rescue those who have fallen into their river or lake, though most 
of the time they are indifferent to the fates of adults. 
Strength of the Wave: Water babies are two Traits up on all Physical 
Challenges to drag someone underwater to drown him. They may only use this 
additional strength when pursuing revenge for a crime. If the target isn’t guilty, 
the bonus does not manifest, a sure sign the target is innocent. They may ask 
the target if they are guilty of the crime out-of-character, and if the target 
responds in the negative the strength fails to materialize. 
Frailties 


than two hours begin to weaken, losing one Physical Trait every hour. Once all 
those Traits are gone, they are unable to move and die in another 24 hours if 
not returned to water. It does not matter if they immerse themselves inanatural 
lake, a swimming pool or even a bathtub (though natural sources are preferred). 
yunwi Amai’yine’hi (Water dDeople) 
Playful and mischievous, this Family has long held watch over the waters 
of the Southeast, pulling pranks and teaching lessons to those who use the rivers 
and lakes that they love. Like the water babies, they are known for zealously 
patrolling their territory and taking revenge on those who abuse it; however, 
unlike the water babies, the yunwi amai’yine’hi seldom use suchdirect methods. 
Instead, most prefer using tricks to push targets right up to the edge of disaster, 
then (depending on their Camp or mood) either rescue them to ponder their 
lesson learned or leave them free to live or die on their own merits. They are 
not especially cruel, but times have been hard on them. 
The brutal relocation of many of their mortal tribes to Oklahoma - 
not 
a land noted for its abundance of rivers and lakes - forced the yunwi 
amai’yine’hi to make a terrible decision over a century ago: stay with their 
mortal relatives, and likely die a quick death from the loss of their beloved 
waters, or remain behind without their mortal kin, and die slowly from the loss 
of the culture that supported them. In the end, most chose to remain behind, 
though the damming of many of their rivers for hydroelectric power in the past 
century has led their kind to question the ultimate wisdom of either choice. As 
a means of survival, some of the yunwi amai’yine’hi are even discussing bringing 
non-native members into the tribe to keep from vanishing entirely. While most 
of the Family awaits the decisions of its learned elders on the matter, some of 
the younger ones have already begun grooming particular mortals for membership 
in their new “tribe.” Other Nunnehi are largely aghast at using such drastic 
measures to preserve the tribe, though if pressed most admit that if the Family 
sees no other option, it is better than dying out entirely. 
While they are still pondering the question of new blood, and a few non- 
native members have sneaked in here and there, most yunwi amai’yine’hi still 
come from Southeastern tribes and reflect this in their outlook and choice of 
attire. Like pooka, in their fae mien they carry some traits oftheirchosenanimal 
- 
a light coat of scales, fur or feathers (depending on their animal affinity) is 
common, as are webbed hands and feet. Their eyes are also striking shades of 
blue. Even in mortal form, most bear a couple of traits or habits of their chosen 
animal, making it possible to spot their animal type even before peeking at their 
fae mien. Like the may-may-gway-shi, they can often be found as sailors and 
fishermen in mortal life, though they tend to live apart from mortal communities 
unless it happens to be one composed of their kinsmen. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights 


particular aquatic creature by spending a Medicine Trait, provided no witnesses 
other than animals or other yunwi amai’yine’hi are watching. All natural 
benefits (wings, gills, etc.) of the form are gained, and the Nunnehi retains his 
normal intelligence, Abilities and cantrip use. The yunwi amai’yine’hi are even 
able to speak in this form, though like pooka they may do so only to other 
enchanted beings unless their form can normally approximate human speech. 
Changing back costs nothing. 
Stir the Waters: As the numuzo’ho Birthright Rouse the Ekments, except 
the effect created may only be water-based and no Willpower Trait is required. 
Frailties 
Snare of the Hunter: If the Nunnehi becomes the prey of a hunter while 
in animal form, she must make a Willpower Challenge to avoid succumbing to 
a panic state in which she thinks only as an animal. In this state, she cannot use 
her Arts or other talents, only her animal form’s natural advantages. Once at 
least temporarily safe, the Nunnehi may retry this test or spend a Willpower 
Trait to regain her senses. 
yunwi Csunbsi (Little People) 
These industrious Nunnehi have long been a part of Cherokee lore as allies 
and unseen helpers. To this day, they remain a blessing on those households 
they favor. Any family that honors the old ways has a chance of earning their 
attention, and once gained they find all number of things great and small going 
right, as the yunwi tsundsi does their best to aid them. They also have a great 
fondness for children and seek to guide and protect them, especially those with 
the potential to become Dreamers. Such chosen children are often thought to 
have “imaginary playmates” by their parents, though the parents seldom mind, 
as the yunwi tsundsi teach manners and respect as well as crafts and legends. 
This is not to say that this Family is all smiles and sunshine, however - 
when driven to anger, or when their hard work is spumed by others, they have 
a legendary mean streak among the Nunnehi that belies their small size and 
generally mirthful demeanor. Those who earn the displeasure of a yunwi tsundsi 
are beset by minor acts of vandalism and sabotage; while even Winter members 
of this Family do not seek to kill their targets, they try to make their lives as 
miserable as possible, to the point where many targets may wish they were dead! 
Likewise, those who abuse children suffer their full wrath, and may experience 
it for years or even decades if the yunwi tsundsi has her way. Fortunately for all 
concerned, a sincere apology (not to mention a peace offering of some kind) is 
sufficient to sate their need for revenge, and generally only those who are 
supremely rude or contemptuous earn it to begin with, as the yunwi tsundsi 
acknowledge (however sadly) that the modern world simply doesn’t teach 
much in the way of etiquette. 
In their mortal seeming, these Nunnehi a typically on the short side and 
wear at least a few pieces of handcrafted jewelry. In their true forms, their 


always working on some project or puzzle at hand. They prefer jobs where they 
can put their hands to good use, especially highly specialized skills: carpenter, 
mason and inventor are popular with them. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights 
Out of Sight: By spending a Willpower Trait, the Nunnehi may become 
effectively invisible to mortals, gaining the benefits of Veiled Eyes for the 
remainder of the scene. Note that changelings and Prodigals are not affected 
by this Birthright - 
only regular mortals, though they may choose to include 
Kinain and enchanted mortals if they so desire. 
Clever Hands: All yunwi tsundsi receive a free level of Crufts that may 
never be permanently lost, and they are one Trait up on all Crafts Challenges. 
What’s more, all yunwi tsundsi receive a free Genial Trait that can never be lost. 
Frailties 
Flames of Anger: If slighted by those he seeks to help, the Nunnehi must 
succeed in a Willpower Challenge or inflict a series of “accidents”on the target; 
these acts are never fatal, but are designed to teach the offender the value of 
proper manners. This lastsfor one entire cycle of the moon, or until the offender 
makes a formal offering of apology. 
Spirit Link 
This Art allows the Nunnehi to interact with their ancestors and the spirit 
world in general, and it is an important part of the upbringing rites of most of 
the Nations. Only Nunnehi may learn this Art, unless the given changeling has 
been adopted by a Nunnehi Nation, and even then many of its powers lose some 
effectiveness since the Kithain know little about the different worlds and can 
never enter them as the Nunnehi do. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Basic 
World Sight: With this power, the Nunnehi may see into the Upper, 
Lower or Middle Worlds and discern the true nature of subjects or objects she 
is looking at. The rough amount of Medicine or spirit power inherent in a place 
may also be sensed. When used on an individual, this Art may detect spirit 
possession, curses or even if the target is a supernatural being (and what type, 
if she is familiar with other creatures of its ilk), provided the Nunnehi defeats 
her target with a Mental Challenge - 
Bunk Traits count for such tests. The 
Nunnehi must be physically present to sense objects or people in the Middle 
World, but need not do so for the Upper or Lower Worlds. 
Type: Chimerical 
Ancestor Speech: By completing a Bunk and spending a Medicine Trait, 
the Nunnehi may summon tribal ancestors and consult their wisdom regarding 
a specific matter. These ancestor spirits may answer only questions pertaining 


.
-
 
limited to their own perspectives and experiences, and do not have any special 
“inside knowledge” of things. They also cannot see the future or even the 
present moment; however, the wisdom of the past is quite valuable in itself. 
Nunnehi spirits may be contacted only if the faerie soul was destroyed, in which 
case their mortal spirit is available to this Art. Obviously, the Storyteller or a 
Narrator should roleplay the conversation, and the Nunnehi may ask no more 
questions than she has permanent Mental Traits. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Vision Quest: See the Soothsay Art Augury. Storytellers are encouraged 
to make vision quests as vivid and intense as possible. Additionally, the Bunk 
for this Art is always a traditional vision quest of some kind - 
fasting, sweat 
lodge, rituals and so on, determined by the Narrator according to the tribe of 
the Nunnehi in question. All the rules of live-action conduct still apply to 
Vision Quest - 
do not actually starve yourself, take peyote or anything else! 
Type: Chimerical 
Placate: This Art allows this Nunnehi to appease angry spirits and hungry 
ghosts, acting as a liaison to the spirit world in order to determine what is 
necessary to placate them. A Bunk and a Mental Trait are required to establish 
contact with the spirit(s) in question, at which time most gladly tell the 
Nunnehi what needs to be done in order to satiate them. Even the angriest 
spirits do not usually attack a Nunnehi using this Art out of respect for his 
intentions, but woe indeed to the faerie who uses this power and then ignores 
what the spirits have asked for! Likewise, if the Nunnehi and his tribe abide by 
what the spirits request, the spirits are honor-bound to leave them in peace, a 
bargain only the most vile spirits would dare to break. This Art is seen as a sacred 
trust by most tribes. While it gives the faerie no direct power over the spirits, 
it is an important step toward establishing a settlement between the two worlds 
when they are at odds. 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Ghost Dance: This powerful ability allows the Nunnehi to assert control 
over the spirit world, banish supernatural creatures from the area and otherwise 
demonstrate mastery of the ethereal plane. This Art costs two Medicine Traits 
to use and requires a Mental Challenge (Bunk Traits included) against the target 
- 
spirits and wraiths may be ordered to cease troubling the human world with 
this Art, and those spirits who have possessed bodies or otherwise sneaked onto 
the mortal coil may be banished back to the Lower World. Supernatural creatures 
may be forced to leave the area for the rest of the session, though they may resist 
this with a Willpower Trait. Should the Nunnehi fail to banish an especially 
powerfulghost (Narrator’sdiscretion), however, shemustwinortieaSimpleTest 
-failure means she is drawn into the Lower World herself and must fight her way 


the Storyteller’s discretion, this Art may be used to summon ghosts to aid the 
Nunnehi or her tribe, but the costs and details of such workings are strictly up to 
the Storyteller to determine. 
Type: Chimerical (could become Wyrd in some cases) 
Munnehi dackgrounbs 
Nunnehi have several unique Backgrounds they may choose during 
creation. They may not take the Remembrance Background and should secure 
Storyteller permission before taking Title, Political Connections or a non- 
Nunnehi Patron. 
Household 
This Background denotes a number of human relations who are close to 
the character; they may or may not know the truth about her faerie nature, but 
they are friendly and loyal nonetheless. Of course, they expect the same from 
the character in return, and if treated poorly they may turn against her. Players 
should work with the Storyteller to determine who these people are, where they 
live, etc. The Storyteller may modify these numbers or even forbid certain 
levels of this Background if they prove too problematic for the chronicle. The 
number of Traits spent determines the number of people in the Household. 
One Trait - 
Two members 
Two Traits - 
Four members 
Three Traits - 
Eight members 
Four Traits - 
16 members 
Five Traits - 
32 members 
Spirit Companion 
See the Companion Background, except the companion is not a chimera 
but a natural spirit of some kind: a fire elemental, wolf spirit, etc. In addition 
to the powers of that Background, the spirit may also store additional Medicine 
or Willpower Traits for the character, effectively acting as a “reserve battery” 
for the Nunnehi (though characters are cautioned to remember that spirits do 
not like being viewed solely as ammo clips and can do all kinds of nasty things 
to the character if treated as such). A character need only spend a moment of 
quiet prayer and meditation in the presence of his companion to invest them 
with a measure of his Medicine or Willpower, which he can then access at any 
time later on, simply by concentrating. Unless the Storyteller rules otherwise, 
the character can store both types of energy in his Spin’t Companion, up to the 
maximum number of Traits dictated by the levels spent on this Background. 
One Trait - 
Store up to two Traits of Medicine/Willpower 
Two Traits - 
Store up to four Traits of Medicine/Willpower 
Three Traits - 
Store up to six Traits of Medicine/Willpower 
Four Traits - 
Store up to eight Traits of Medicine/Willpower 
Five Traits - 
Store up to ten Traits of Medicine/Willpower 


This replaces the Remembrance Background for Nunnehi, except that any 
knowledge gained obviously pertains to the Higher Hunting Grounds, Nunnehi 
families, etc. 
Totem 
Nunnehi with this Background have a spiritual link to a higher entity, 
typically a tribal totem or spirit guide of some kind. The number of Traits spent 
represents the power of the entity involved and the strength of the bond itself. 
A Nunnehi without a totem cannot enter the spirit worlds, and most Families 
consider one of their own who does not eventually feel a calling to one spirit or 
another a little bit strange, though they will respect their wishes in any event. 
Most Nunnehi take on a totem bond during a ceremony as they advance from 
youngling to brave, though in some rare instances they do not take on a totem 
until their elder years are upon them, or acquire one as a youngling. 
Although it is not quite common, Nunnehi do occasionally change their 
totem allegiance; such changes are never undertaken lightly, for risk of 
angering one’s previous totem, and typically involve a quest or task to be 
performed before the new totem will accept such a transitional follower. 
Provided the ceremonies are properly performed, however, there is no stigma 
attached to Nunnehi who change totems, though those who do so more than 
once or twice are certain to have a bit of whispering following them as their 
fellow Nunnehi ponder their erratic ways. 
Systems for crossing into the spirit world via a totem are listed under “The 
House of the Spirits” (see page 20). Likewise, a list of some common Nunnehi 
totems, along with their costs, benefits and Bans, can be found at the end of this 
chapter. Players and Storytellers should also feel free to research and write up 
other totems to suit individual tribes and characters, so long as they remember 
game balance and even more importantly the value such totems add to the 
story. If a totem is a valuable addition to the spiritual tone and personal 
development of a character, that’s wonderful, but if a player simply wants an 
excuse to purchase a bag of goodies for his character, kindly show them the 
sweat-lodge door. 
Influence: Tribal 
This new Influence covers your control over the affairs of one Native 
American tribe. As indicated before, there are literally thousands of tribes 
across Concordia, which means you must specify an individual tribe when this 
Influence is taken. Typically this means you were born a member of this tribe, 
making this Influence almost entirely limited to the Nunnehi, but characters 
from other kiths may take this Influence with an excellent story and Storyteller 
approval. Characters may take this Influence several different times for several 
different tribes to reflect a wide degree of Influence among native populations, 
or the Storyteller may allow them to count a handful of small, closely related 
and allied tribes as one tribe for the purposes of this Trait, if this does not disturb 


of trouble if there are still lingering tensions between Kithain and Nunnehi in 
the area, as such loyalty will be considered akin to treason by suspicious 
members of some other kiths (not to mention many ordinary humans) and also 
marks you as a sympathizer to any other tribes that might be hostile to your 
allies. Obviously, the people within the domain of this Influence are all 
members of the tribe in question, from chiefs, matriarchs, warriors, women and 
children on down, even to mixed-blood relatives still loyal to their tribe. 
1 
Know the layout and boundaries of tribal lands*; Learn rumors and 
recent events around the fire; Identify members of the tribe, even those of 
mixed blood* 
2 
Learn the true reason behind recent tribal decisions; Gather wisdom 
from some of the older members of the tribe on a particular topic; Hide out on 
tribal territory, even with nontribal companions 
3 
Inspire a small group of kin to follow you for a specific, worthy cause; 
Get the ear of the chief or matriarch; Learn minor ancestral secrets (herbal 
remedies, minor spirit names); Cross through the territory of a friendly or 
neutral Family unmolested* 
4 
Have a loud voice in tribal policy discussions; Borrow minor items of 
power (small chimera and other such items created by tribal shamans); Access 
moderate tribal secrets; Borrow funds from tribal accounts (around $500, and 
don’t do it too often) 
5 
Call a council of the tribe; Access major tribal secrets (the location of 
a powerful, hidden freehold); Gain the honor of carrying a minor mystical item 
for the tribe for a time (chimera of medium power or weak treasure) 
6 
Call up a full-fledged traditional war party for a cause related to the 
tribe’s welfare; Replace the current chief or matriarch with one of your 
choosing; Control all the details of a single mundane event on a regular basis 
(marriages, hunting, planting) 
7 
Start a tribal migration; Arrange a council of tribes in the region and 
have a voice at that council yourself; Learn the greatest tribal secrets; Arrange 
an alliance with your tribe and a Family to which they are bitterly opposed 
8 
Introduce new elements into tribal mythology; Carry the tribe’s most 
prized heirloom for a time (mid-range to powerful treasure, at the Storyteller’s 
discretion) 
cost 
Desired Effect 
Totems 
The bond that a Nunnehi has with her totem spirit is hard to define in 
simple terms - 
it is at once a deep friendship, a child-parent bond and an 
initiate-master relationship all at once. Even the meekest, least powerful 
totems are far greater than their followers, and those Nunnehi who attempt to 


recognize the importance of their Nunnehi followers and treat them well, 
knowing that to alienate them is to doom themselves to oblivion. Fortunately 
for all concerned, the traditions and ancient ways of the Nunnehi Nations 
ensure that such disagreements are rare indeed, and for the most part the 
Nunnehi and their totems exist in harmony, working together to preserve the 
places of Medicine in the world and protect the totem’s mortal aspects from 
harm at the hands of the ignorant and malicious. 
For a multitude of animal totems, as well as additional ideas for handling 
totem spirits in general, see Laws of the Wild and The Changing Breeds. 
Should the Storyteller permit a Nunnehi to choose an animal totem, this 
changes the method of crossing into the Umbra slightly: The Realm Feral 
Animal isrequiredrather thanverdant Forest if the character wishes to lower the 
difficulty of crossing over, and rather than touching the animal, he must 
perform a ritual involving relics from the animal - 
a ceremonial dance while 
wearing a wolf skin for followers of Wolf, for example, or perhaps a ritual hunt 
while wearing a bear skull headdress for followers of Bear. These rituals must last 
ut kast one minute/lO combat turns, though that time can be cut in half by 
spending two Glamour Traits. Furthermore, while the character may carry the 
appropriate relics with them (such as a pelt or headdress), after each use they 
must be purified and re-dedicated to the totem before they can be of use in 
crossing over again, a process that requires at least 15 minutes of prayer and 
ritual, during which time the Nunnehi cannot be disturbed. 
Birch 
Background Cost: 2 
Found in cooler climates where the sunshine is abundant, Birch calls 
Canada and the northern areas of the United States her home. She takes great 
pride in her appearance and lends some of her grace to others through the 
various medicines that can be made from her oil, which help ease the pain of 
rheumatism and other joint pains. She is also used in the building of several 
types of canoes. 
Traits: Those chosen by Birch receive a free Dignified Social Trait, as well 
as a level of the Medicine (Herbs) Ability. 
Taboo: Birch asks her children to protect her forests from overuse. 
Cherry 
Background Cost: 2 
An impulsive and exuberant spirit, Cherry becomes quiet and withdrawn 
during the winter months, only to explode with brilliant color and life during 
the spring and summer. Cherry is also associated with many fertility rites and 
is considered a sacred tree in many parts of the United States as well as Japan, 
where a weeklong festival is held in her honor. Though somewhat vain, she is 
good at heart and enjoys showing others the beauty of life. 


free Gorgeous Social Trait. 
wear one of her blossoms on them at all times, especially in winter. 
Taboo: Cherry asks her children to never hide their true feelings, and to 
Cottonwood 
Background Cost: 5 
A fast-growing staple of the American prairie, Cottonwood is one of the 
most sacred plants known to the Nunnehi, used not only for building tipis but 
also as the centerpiece for the sun dance ritual. Even the American settlers 
revered her as the source of wood for their homes, and Cottonwood sees herself 
as a guardian and caretaker of those around her, always watchful for the well- 
being of others. 
Traits: Cottonwood blesses her children with free levels of the Gremayre 
and Crafts Abilities; in addition, Nunnehi who participate in the taxing sun 
dance ritual gain a free Stalwart Physical Trait when the ceremony is finished. 
This last benefit is permanent, but can only be acquired once -that is, multiple 
sun dance rituals certainly offer honor to Cottonwood, but do not confer 
additional Traits. 
Taboo: Those who follow Cottonwood must use her wood wisely, replac- 
ing cut trees with new seedlings and using deadfalls whenever possible; in 
addition, she demands that her children never fail to honor the spirits. 
Dogwood 
Background Cost: 3 
A widespread and highly useful tree, Dogwood is found from the northern 
reaches of Maine down to the Gulf Coast region, and her hard wood makes her 
a valuable source of tools and building materials to many tribes. Her bark also 
produces several potent medicines, including ones valuable in breaking fevers. 
Dogwood is also a natural calendar whose spring blossoms tell tribes it is time 
to begin planting corn and other crops. She is helpful and full of life, though a 
little vain on account of her beautiful blossoms. 
Traits: Dogwood's children receive a free Friendly Social Trait, as well as 
free levels of Medicine (Herbs) and Science: Botany. 
Taboo: Dogwood's children must never deface themselves and must carry 
a small dogwood trinket with them at all times. 
Fir 
Background Cost: 2 
Though she goes by many names - 
Balsam, Fraser and Spruce, among 
others - 
in all forms Fir is a survivor who endures the rigors of cold climate and 
thrives in places other trees cannot. She does not lose her leaves to the winter 
frost as others do, and her cones provide food for many animals. She is quiet but 
proud, and shelters those who seek comfort in hard times. 
Traits: Fir grants her children a free level of the Survival Ability, as well 


those she blesses must never cut down a fir tree or use anything but dead wood 
for building fires or crafting things. 
Fireweed 
Background Cost: 2 
Often considered the phoenix of the native tribes, Fireweed thrives in 
lands ravaged by fire or excavation, and embodies the ideal of life renewing 
itself even in the face of great hardship. Though her blossoms are striking, 
Fireweed is more valued as a source of food, as well as a means of making a 
number of medicines for everything from asthma to whooping cough. Tenacious 
and resourceful, Fireweed respects those who share such traits and does not 
favor those who give up easily or flee at the approach of change. 
Traits: Fireweed teaches her children a free level of the Medicine (Herbs) 
Ability and grants them a free Tenacious Physical Trait. 
Taboo: Followers ofFireweed must assist in local land-reclamation projects 
whenever possible. 
Granite 
Background Cost: 3 
Sometimes called the backbone of the continent, Granite changes only 
slowly as the eons flow by, and serves as a model for stoicism and stability. To 
his enemies, however, Granite is equally tough and unyielding, and those who 
manage to rouse his ire earn themselves a grudge of legendary proportions. 
Traits: Granite blesses his children with free Tough and Brawny Physical 
Traits, as well as a free level of the Intimidation Ability. 
Taboo: Those chosen by Granite must never back down from a test of 
strength or endurance. 
Ice 
Background Cost: 1 
Although found almost exclusively in the Far North, where he makes his 
home year-round, Ice has taught the tribes of that region much- how to travel 
across his surface, build shelter from his body and even how to catch fish 
through holes cut on frozen lakes or waterways. Ice is a spirit of great 
contradiction, able to support great weight in some places but fragile enough 
to snap under a child in others, and teaches his children lessons of uncertainty. 
Though he reminds many Nunnehi of the coming Winter, Ice is not an evil 
spirit, simply himself. 
Traits: Ice grants those he favors a free Resilient Physical Trait, as well as 
a free level of the Survival Ability. 
Taboo: Ice requires that his children live in places where he is prevalent, 
and to care as best they can for those people and creatures who call his lands 
home. 
Magnolia 


Originally from China, Magnolia flourishes in parts of the American 
Southeast, especially in areas of abundant moisture. Her lush blossoms and 
heady perfume delight the senses, while her leaves provide welcome shade from 
the hot sun. Although somewhat narcissistic, Magnolia is secure in the 
knowledge that beauty is its own reason for existence, and teaches others the 
same. 
Traits: Magnolia blesses her children with free Alluring and Seductive 
Social Traits, and many claim that a faint scent of her perfume follows them 
always. 
Taboo: Magnolia forbids her followers from picking her delicate blossoms 
and requires them to plant a tree in her honor at least once every year. 
Maize (Corn) 
Background Cost: 3 
A staple crop of countless tribes, Maize is also a powerful spirit of fertility 
and protection who serves to keep curses and evil spirits away even as she 
nourishes her people. Aside from being the foundation for cornpone (combread), 
hominy (grits) and corn tortillas, maize was also sprinkled on items as food for 
the spirits, and ears of corn were often used as receptacles for good spirits or 
items of power during ceremonies. Maize herself is a noble spirit, deeply 
concerned with ritual and tradition, but she is also keenly interested in 
protecting those who honor her. 
Traits: Maize grants her followers a free Empathetic Social Trait, as well as 
a free level of Crafts: Cooking and a free Shrewd Mental Trait. 
Taboo: Followers of Maize must hang an ear of corn somewhere in their 
permanent dwelling, as well as carry a few kernels of corn or corn pollen on their 
person at all times. 
Pine 
Background Cost: 4 
Although related to Fir, with whom she shares close ties, Pine’s endurance 
is a symbol of the persistence of mystery even in the most inhospitable 
environments while Fir is concerned with matters of the physical world. Pine 
takes pride teaching others of the wonders hiding in the shadows of even the 
most Banal parts of the world. Pine has many dark forests where she keeps her 
secrets, though perhaps her most treasured ground is the Pine Barrens of New 
Jersey, arare ecosystem that- thanks largely to her follower’s efforts-has also 
become one of the best protected preserves in the country, despite being located 
in the most densely populated state in the nation. Pine is a shy spirit, but full 
of lore to teach those who brave the darkness of the woods to find it. 
Traits: Pine grants her followers free levels of the Enigmas and Gremayre 
Abilities, as well as a free Wise Mental Trait. By offering a quick prayer to Pine, 
her followers may also act at half the normal penalty in darkness. 


confidence, and at least once a year must travel to her woods and whisper their 
greatest secrets for her to hear. 
Saguaro Cactus 
Background Cost: 2 
A proud and hearty spirit, Saguaro enjoys showing that even the harsh 
desert can be survived by those wise in its ways. His towering form has become 
a symbol for the Southwest. Less visible is the fact that his bright red fruit can 
be brewed into a syrupy liquor, which is used in the rain dance rituals by several 
tribes of the region. Saguaro is generous to those who follow him, but insists that 
they first learn how to survive on their own and never forget the lesson of 
deprivation that the desert teaches. 
Traits: Children of Saguaro gain free levels of the Survival and Crafts: 
Brewing Abilities, as well as a free Robust Physical Trait. 
Taboo: Saguaro demands that his children conserve water and oppose 
those who pollute water sources. 
Sandstone 
Background Cost: 2 
An adaptable spirit well versed in the ways of both the physical and the 
spiritual worlds, Sandstone makes her home in arid regions, as well as by large 
bodies of fresh or salt water. Sandstone is used in the construction of homes by 
many of the pueblo tribes, and it is ground into dust for use in the making of 
beautiful sand paintings and other sacred ceremonies of the tribes she shelters. 
Patient and in tune with the changing attitudes of the world, Sandstone is more 
approachable than most spirits, and willing to help her children with nearly any 
problem. 
Traits: Followers of Sandstone gain free levels of the Crafts: Sandpainting 
and Occult Abilities. 
Taboo: Though adaptable, Sandstone requires her followers to be well 
versed in the ancient ways. All her children must study the rituals of their 
mortal tribes. 
Tobacco 
Background Cost: 4 
Although its use was corrupted and commercialized by settlers, who 
ignored its spiritual powers and opened themselves to the dangers of 
overindulging in its negative properties, Tobacco was considered one of the 
most sacred plants by nearly all native tribes, who used it in countless 
ceremonies. Its dried leaves were scattered to honor the spirits or burned to 
open communication with the Upper World through its powerful smoke. 
Tobacco shuns the plants of the cigarette industry, and most of his children do 
likewise. 
Traits: Children of Tobacco gain two free levels of the Occult (Spirits) 
Abilitv. as well as free Observant and Wise Mental Traits. 


ceremonial occasions, honoring its original purpose. Those who use fields of 
commercial tobacco to cross into the Upper World must purify themselves 
afterward. 
Whitewater 
Background Cost: 1 
A spirit of personal challenge and competition, Whitewater is constantly 
changing, yet always the same, forever daring others to test their limits. She is 
also a free spirit whose laughter is the very embodiment of wilderness, and she 
enjoys the company of those who appreciate change and love taking risks. 
Whitewater is a fair sportsman, but pulls no punches and expects those who lose 
to do so gracefully. 
Traits: Whitewater’s children are excellent swimmers and are considered 
two Traits up on all tests involving swimming; furthermore, they can pilot any 
type of canoe or sailing vessel, though powered craft such as motorboats, cruise 
ships or submarines are beyond their ken. Her children also gain a free Lithe 
Physical Trait. 
Taboo: Whitewater requires her children to make their homes near her 
banks, asking that her followers never pollute her waters and oppose others who 
do. 
Willow 
Background Cost: 3 
Willow loves water and is never found far from it. A healing tree, his bark 
can be made into a potent curative tea, and even his simple presence is often 
quite soothing for those who seek shelter in his shade. Willow is fond of crafts 
as well, and all manner of objects both beautiful and useful can be made from 
his bark and his branches, from woven jewelry to sturdy baskets. Although 
gentle, the ability of Willow to withstand strong winds and great storms has 
achieved the status of folk legend and serves as a lesson in both strength and 
adaptability. 
Traits: Willow’s children receive free Resilient and Graceful Physical 
Traits, as well as a free level of the Crafts Ability. 
Taboo: Willow asks that his followers actively protect willow trees from 
wanton destruction and development. 


d History of the Slow &mpires 
In the dawn of the world, Kithain and humanity alike celebrated the 
natural world and offered honor to the spirits of the stones, trees, waters and 
skies that surrounded them. As the dreams and prayers of mortals caressed the 
natural world, the Inanimae were born in response, spirits descended from the 
elements and possessing incredible powers over them. Some Inanimae claim it 
was the other way around, that the manifestations of their power were what 
prompted the mortals andKithain-or 
meat races, as they’re known- to offer 
worship to them. Regardless of the truth, they were considered gods and great 
spirits by those who knew of them, and their slightest word or deed could cause 
speculation among the meat for decades to come. It was a glorious existence, 
and the Inanimae look back on those days with fond reverence. In their long 
memories, these times seem painfully close, even though centuries have passed 
for their short-lived Kithain allies. 
With the coming of the Sundering, however, the Inanimae were forced to 
hide from the world with increasing frequency -not tied to living beings as the 
Kithain were, they could not undergo the Changeling Way, and most refused 
to part with their beloved elements. On what few occasions they had to travel 
among the meat, they learned the craft of forging Husks, or human shells that 
could resist Banality, but unlike the mortal seemings of the fae these shells were 
temporary at best, and discarded as soon as the Inanimae returned to her 
Anchor. Over time, the faerie courts and mortal cults saw less and less of their 
Inanimae patrons, and most fae believed that the onset of Banality at the hands 
of their human cousins had driven the Inanimae into hiding. While there is 
some validity to this theory, there was a deeper conflict going on among the 
Inanimae: the terrible slaughter known as the Making War. 


The waking War 
As the Shattering loomed on the horizon, a war began brewing between 
two emerging factions of the Inanimae: the court of the Glade, whose followers 
are called gladelings and are composed of Inanimae whose Anchors remain in 
their pristine natural state; and the court of the Kroft, whose so-called Krofted 
followers inhabit Anchors that have been shaped by mortal hands. Inanimae 
of the Glade are primarily traditionalists and look down on their Krofted 
cousins as inferior for having been “tamed” by mortals, but they have become 
fewer as time goes by. Inanimae of the Kroft, on the other hand, are much more 
in tune with the meat world, and see their Glade siblings as hopelessly outdated 
and anachronistic - 
needless to say, the spread of humanity has now shifted 
the balance solidly in their favor. Those few Kithain who learned of the conflict 
saw it as not too dissimilar to their own Seelie and Unseelie differences but 
failed to realize that for the previously harmonious Inanimae, these differences 
were terrifying and alien, and the rapid spread of the Kroft forced the Glade 
court to make the first and most harmful hasty decision in the history of the 
Slow Empires. 
The other Inanimae blamed the solimonds, the fire spirits, for teaching 
humanity to embrace the possibilities of taming the natural world to suit their 
whims, instead of existing in harmony with it. For their part, the solimonds 
were unrepentant for their actions and swore that in time their wisdom would 
be borne out. The Slow Empires declared war on the Empire of Flames, 
although it was the stone folk known as glomes who did most of the actual 
fighting. Though they fought bravely, the solimonds were ultimately defeated 
and scattered over the world, their empire’s homeland in the Dreaming 


the meat had already begun the process of shaping the world to suit their ideas. 
As the Shattering descended, many Inanimae were forced into Slumber in 
order to avoid the rising Banality. Most would remain in their dormant state for 
several centuries, until even many Kithain believed them to be little more than 
a myth. 
The Mobern Cra 
It took the great surge of Glamour sparked by the Resurgence of the sidhe 
to rouse the Inanimae from their long Slumber. When they finally did awaken, 
many were horrified to find that their Anchors had been Krofted during their 
Slumber, essentially making a path@ joke out of their great struggle to 


destroyed outright - 
trees chopped down, rivers dammed, mountains blasted 
- 
as their faerie forms shattered under the assault of workmen and their 
accompanying Banality. Perhaps hardest of all to accept, especially for those 
who had been proud members of the Glade all along, was that the solimonds 
had been right, and indeed were now the most commonly encountered of all the 
Inanimae in the modem world. Those few Inanimae who have cared to 
comment on the shock of their awakening liken it to falling asleep in your own 
house, only to wake up the next morning to find the house completely changed, 
a family of strangers pressing in around you and the friends or family that used 
to dwell there with you either missing or being used as pieces of furniture. 
Although most Inanimae had little part in the Accordance War - 
still 
trying to make sense of the world they had awakened to - 
those few that were 
involved fought largely on the side of the commoners, although the sidhe were 
able to recall several ancient pacts between their kind and the Slow Empires 
that allowed them the service of some Inanimae during the war. Some 
Inanimae fought to avenge lost comrades, as many Kithain had sworn to protect 
the Inanimae during their Slumber, then abandoned them to Banality as the 
mortal world became too much to bear. In general, however, the Inanimae tried 
to prevent Kithain bloodshed and aggression whenever possible, to protect 
those who might explain this world to them if nothing else. And thus they 
remain to this day, gradually emerging from their seclusion to become involved 
with the frantic, short-lived meat races of mortal and fae once more. 
In the courts where they have revealed themselves, the Inanimae have 
occupied a curious place in the hierarchy. Like the Nunnehi, they are angered 
by the destruction of the natural world and many of the Anchors of their 
fellows. However, their anger goes deeper, to the very roots of the world itself. 
Inanimae Character Creation 
Inanimae have several unique features when compared to their Kithain 
cousins. This section covers the special features of playing one of these faeries 
of the natural world. 
i&imour Systems 
Inanimae use the same systems as Nunnehi do when it comes to gathering 
Glamour - 
their connection with the natural world makes it possible from 
them to gain Glamour from the very essence of the world itself. They cannot 
achieve Rapture - 
they are already at one with their element, after all - 
and 
instead may use Reverie as Kithain do, but only if the artist they are inspiring 
is near or actually touching the character’s Anchor. Otherwise, the tests and 
benefits are the same as for regular Kithain Reverie. 


61 


&anality 
Inanimae are very sensitive to Banality - 
without their Husks, they are 
quickly Undone if they venture out into the mortal world. If an Inanimae’s 
permanent Banality ever rises above her permanent Glamour, she must 
immediately make a test of her Glamour against her Banality for each new 
permanent point of Banality gained; if she fails, she immediately flees back into 
her Anchor and fall into an inactive state known as Somnolence for one year 
per point of Banality over her Glamour rating. A Willpower Trait may be spent 
for a retest on this challenge. At the end of this time, her permanent Banality 
drops to two points beneath her permanent Glamour, all temporary Banality is 
erased and she can become active once more. 


Slumber Checks 
Permanent Banality isn’t all that can force an Inanimae to retreat from the 
mortal world - 
certain other shocks can force the Inanimae to snap back into 
her Anchor and enter Slumber, a shorter but no less traumatic form of 
Somnolence. A Slumber check is a test of the character’s permanent Glamour 
versus permanent Banality, and may only be retested with Willpower. At the 
Storyteller’s discretion, characters who fail the check may not immediately 
enter Slumber, but might enter it (or even a full-fledged Somnolence) later on 
-their dedication to the task at hand keeps them going for a time, but it costs 
them in the end. This minimizes the possible disruption to the storyline of a 
character suddenly going inactive in the middle of a session and allows the 
player to accomplish some goals, plan her next character and have some 
moments of high drama as she says good-bye. If the end of the storyline is a long 
way off, the Storyteller may require a Willpower Trait be spent each session in 
order to stave off Slumber or Somnolence. In the end, it is up to the Storyteller 
to decide when Slumber checks are required, but both Slumber and Somnolence 
should be threats with teeth if the tenuous existence of the Inanimae in the 
modem world is to be portrayed accurately. 
Please note that there is adifference between Slumber and Somnolence- 
Slumber is a short-term condition, similar to a Kithain who falls prey to the 
Mists, and lasts the same amount of time (see the Mists chart in The Shining 
Host, page 178). Somnolence is a much longer period of inactivity, and lasts 
for the amount of time described in the previous passage on Banality and the 


it will likely remove a character from the game for a long while. 
The events listed below all immediately provoke a Slumber check: 
Destruction of a Husk (Slumber is immediate; no check necessary). 
Temporary Banality is higher than Glamour rating. 
Gaining a permanent Banality Trait. 
Temporary Glamour reaches zero. 
Husk revealed as false in front of a number of witnesses. 
Husk injured with cold iron. 
Husk ages to the next seeming. 
In addition, the following factors may force a full-fledged Somnolence 
Dreamform touched with cold iron. 
Destruction of an Anchor. 
Dreamform killed (Somnolence is immediate; no check necessary). 
Permanent Glamour reaches zero. 
Anchor is Krofted (if not already). 
check at the Storyteller’s discretion: 
The Husk 
The Dreamform of most Inanimae - 
their equivalent of the Kithain fae 
seeming - 
looks like their Anchor in humanoid form, or like a being cut 
straight out of the Inanimae’s Anchor if it is particularly large. While all 
Inanimae can assume their Dreamforms within freeholds, Anchors or the 
Dreaming itself, and Kithain can see their true selves behind their mortal masks 
the same as a regular Kithain’s fae mien, Inanimae do not possess mortal bodies 
as the Kithain do, and thus must craft false ones -known 
as Husks - 
if they 
wish to venture among mortals for long without being destroyed by Banality. 
Most Inanimae learn at least the basics of crafting Husks, although their base 
material is still evident no matter how skilled they get at crafting. At first a 
kubera Husk might look like a plant-person, with leaves for hair, branches for 
limbs and other floral features; with some practice, the kubera can learn to pass 
for human, although some little touches such as bright green eyes, dark brown 
hair and the like will always persist. 
System: Husks age quickly when exposed to the Banality of the mortal 
world - 
they start out resembling humans between the ages of 10 and 12, and 
age one year per week they are active. This aging can only be suspended within 
a freehold or the Inanimae’s Anchor. For every point of temporary Banality 
gained, the Husk ages five years. Every time this aging causes a change in 
seeming, such as childling to wilder or wilder to grump, the Inanimae must 
make a Slumber check. A Husk that becomes too old begins to decay, and the 
Inanimae must return to her Anchor and let the Husk slip away before a new 
one can be crafted. Inanimae may choose to craft a new Husk before then - 
either way, crafting a new Husk requires the Inanimae to be in contact with her 


Anchor for three da 
65 
must spend a Glamour Trait. Inanimae usually do not do undertake such a 
process unless there is a pressing need. (For convenience, this can be assumed 
to happen between games with Storyteller permission.) 
Anchors 
To the mundane eye, Anchors are nothing more than a quantity of the 
Inanimae’s native element - 
in pristine state for a gladeling, or some sort of 
natural element in crafted or shaped form for a Krofted fae. Unless mortals are 
truly heavy with Banality, they unconsciously avoid harming or disturbing 
Anchors if they can (keeping them safe from most anything but willful 
desecration), and some Dreamers are attracted to them as sources of beauty or 
inspiration. To the eyes of other enchanted beings, however, the Anchor truly 
comes into its own, appearing as a personal dwelling made out of the appropriate 
materials, and rightly so, since it is the Inanimae’s true home. A kubera’s tree 
might become a sturdy tree house, a solimond’s incense brazier a structure of 
solidified smoke and flame, a glome’s boulder a curious spherical stone house, 
and so on. The inside of an Anchor is a dwelling place, furnished according to 
the Inanimae’s particular desires - 
most gladelings have little in the way of 
goods, and their “furniture” tends to be shaped out of the same material as the 
Anchor itself, while Krofted tend to have more modem comforts scattered 
about their living spaces. Anchors are not necessarily freeholds (though they 
might be with the right Backgrounds), but they do give the Inanimae certain 
benefits whenever they are at home. 
System: Inanimae can abandon their Husks and re-enter their Anchors at 
any time; this does not count as a Husk being destroyed for the purposes of 
Slumber checks, and a new Husk doesn’t have to be crafted unless the Inanimae 
desires to do so - 
the Husk simply picks up where it left off when he next exits 
his Anchor. If done in the presence of the unenchanted, this earns the 
Inanimae a Banality Trait and might even provoke a Slumber check in times 
of extreme stress. Normally, only Inanimae may enter an Anchor (though 
powerful cantrips may be used to barge in); they may bring others in with a 
Glamour Trait spent for each “guest,” though this cannot be done in the 
presence of the unenchanted. Alternately, those who travel to the Anchor’s 
location in the Near Dreaming can simply knock and have the Inanimae let 
them in. 
This does not make Anchors wonderful fortresses, however, as those who 
damage the Anchor’s mundane aspect may harm or even destroy the Anchor, 
causing great pain to the Inanimae and possibly even destroying him. If an 
Anchor is Krofted by mortal or faerie hands, the Inanimae must immediately 
make a Slumber check; if he stays active, he may immediately attempt to take 
Husk form by his Anchor and try to stop the process normally. If the Anchor 
is already Krofted, the Inanimae must make a Somnolence check, and the 


Anchor is severe enough! 
If an Anchor is attacked or damaged, the Inanimae can immediately sense 
it and attempt to return to defend it as outlined previously. Those whose 
Anchors are destroyed while they are inside, active or not, are immediately 
Undone by Banality. Those who are in Husk form still suffer terribly, but have 
a short time to find a replacement Anchor before Banality Undoes them. One 
permanent Glamour Trait is lost per hour in the Husk, and the Inanimae must 
seek out an object or site as close to his former Anchor as possible - 
if one can 
be found, he must make a Glamour Challenge against nine Traits, retest with 
Willpower. Success means the Inanimae has bonded to the new Anchor, 
though riot without cost: A permanent Trait of both Glamour and Willpower 
must be spent to complete the process, and the Inanimae must immediately 
enter Slumber as he gets acquainted with his new home. Note that Anchors 
have no special protection, aside from any laid on them by the Inanimae - 
a 
kubera’s tree burns as easily as any other, for example, and for this reason most 
Inanimae keep their Anchors secret when possible, for fear ofothers attempting 
to harm them. 
Inanimae Phyla 
Once, the Inanimae contend, there were countless different phyla that 
comprised the various elemental courts. But as time passed, as Anchors were 
lost and Inanimae retreated, different phyla merged or became extinct, until 
now all that remains is a handful of survivors representing each of the elements 
of the empires. Rumor has it that other Inanimae races exist, but if this is the 
case, they are even more rare than their regular cousins and unheard of by the 
Kithain. 
Glomes (GLOAMS) 
Although the Kithain and other Inanimae think of them as massive stone 
giants, the glomes are in fact the smallest and most active of their kind. Serving 
the ancient, tradition-centered Empire of Stones on behalf of their glacially 
minded brethren, the glomes keep the mountains and other greater stone lords 
apprised of the world around them. Even the most active of glomes still has the 
patience of stone, and most refrain from drawing a conclusion or forming an 
opinion until they’ve had at least a couple of months to observe the object or 
person in question, and they can be downright shy because of it. Once they’ve 
made up their minds, they make some of the most steadfast friends- or resolute 
enemies - 
in all of the Dreaming. Many glomes are still fiercely loyal to allies 
who fled the meat world before the Shattering. 
Glomes form the stable foundation of the Slow Empires, though it was 
their war with the solimonds (and their continuing unwillingness to reconsider 
that course of action) that led to the worst battles of the Making War. Other 
Inanimae frequently defer to glomes on matters of their kind, feeling that the 


to live up to this trust. They enjoy interacting with the meat world but tend to 
epitomize the worst problems with doing so - 
due to their incredibly long 
memories, their methodical way of approaching others and their inability to 
maintain a life in the hectic world of the meat, a changeling has typically passed 
well into grumpdom just around the time that the glome considers her 
interesting enough to be a close friend. 
Glomes typically have some trouble with a human form, as they care little 
for crafting a convincing Husk, though those who have been active for a while 
typically pickup the skill out ofrespect for their allies. Glomes are almost always 
tall and massively built, and they often have chiseled physiques (literally!); 
when they do imitate human features, those features are typically cold but 
perfect, though their unblinking eyes can unnerve those who don’t know them. 
They have no hair as such, though some sculpt a texture into their Husk or use 
wigs. They enjoy the company of others, if only in their own strange way, and 
will typically reward their friends with gems or valuable relics in return for 
friendship and gossip. They organize their empire along military lines, with a 
complex hierarchy of leaders and soldiers. Every glome knows his rank and 
duties. 
Affinity: Pemos 
Birthrights 
Strength of the Stone: Composed as they are of living stone, all glomes 
receive two additional Bruised health levels, as well as free Brawny and Enduring 
Physical Traits, which can never be permanently lost. 
Immunity: Glomes are totally immune to all disease and poison (including 
alcohol), even those inflicted by supernatural powers. 
Frailties 
Weight of the Stone: No matter what their Husk may seem to be, all 
glomesretain the natural heaviness of stone, making it hard for them to interact 
with some of the more fragile parts of the physical world without causing 
damage. Glome Husks often weigh in excess of 1000 pounds; while most 
modern construction, chimerical and otherwise, can withstand this stress, 
Narrators should take care to enforce this around areas of less sturdy construction. 
Glomes also receive a permanent Lethargic Negative Trait to simulate their 
ponderous weight, which can never be bought off. They receive a free retest on 
all attempts to throw or trip them, unless their opponent is capable of dealing 
with their weight (grump trolls, ogres, sufficiently empowered cantrip-users, 
etc.). 
Ku ber a (KOO-be h-r a hs) 
Also known as nymphs or dryads, kuberas are Inanimae of life and plenty, 
and as such come closer than many of their kind to truly understanding and 
participating in the meat world. They are Inanimae full and true, yet at the same 
time they are creatures of life as well, and enjoy the trappingsof life and material 


kuberas of decadence or gluttony, and while this is no doubt the truth in some 
instances, most of these Inanimae simply laugh off the dour looks of their 
brethren. After all, they have tasted life, and are in no hurry to scurry back to 
the cold politics of the Slow Empires. 
While they dislike solimonds, and will never be found in their company 
long, kuberas enjoy the company of just about every other phyla and kith 
imaginable. Sociable by nature, they are inveterate party-crashers and love 
nothing better than to spend a night out with friends (old friends or ones 
they’ve just met, it makes little difference to them). Since their talent for 
inducing fertility in all manner of enterprises follows them wherever they go, 
kuberas tend to be darlings of the nouwau rick. More than one mortal has found 
his fortune while enjoying the attention of a kubera. While these exploits make 
them very knowledgeable about the meat world, it also gives them a certain 
arrogance, especially concerning their fellow Inanimae. 
Kubera are typically among the most human-looking of the Inanimae and 
can craft Husks with any human shape and skin tone they desire. Their one 
telltale feature is their ears, which are prominent in their Husks and especially 
long and pointed in their Dreamform. Most kubera have expensive clothing, 
jewelry and other ornaments, though more out of a love of decoration than any 
real ostentation. Revelers and social butterflies, they can be found just about 
anywhere mortals are, and tales of new wealth and sensuality follow in their 
wake. Kubera follow a monarch, much like the fae, and this leader steps down 
every 10 years (a blink of the eye to the Inanimae), making their social order 
a constant flux of those rising and falling in status. 
Affinity: Verdage 
Birthrights 
Fertile Minds: Possessed of the quintessential green thumb, kuberas have 
a remarkable ability to boost the productivity or fertility of any undertaking, 
from raising crops to playing the stock market to childbearing. The only ban is 
that the kubera cannot be the primary beneficiary of the enterprise or it will fail 
immediately. Exactly what happens is up to the Storyteller, though some 
suggestions follow: doubling the amount of money gained from an Influence, 
raising a character’s Resources Background, increasing the output of a workshop 
by one and a half times the normal production rate and so on. The exact benefits 
and how long they last are up to the Storyteller, who is free to exact a Glamour 
cost for especially drastic effects and is also encouraged to reward those who 
adhere to the creative spirit of this Birthright rather than simply try to amass 
huge stockpiles of toys for their fellow characters. 
The Glow: Kubera exude an air of pleasure, fulfillment and sensuality that 
eases the inhibitions of others, making onlookers more friendly and open to 
seduction. All kubera are two Traits up on Social Challenges to befriend or 
seduce. This is not without cost, however - 
this mysterious aura also tends to 
draw people to the kubera at inopportune times, as they try to remember where 


in The Shining Host. 
Frailties 
Counting: These Inanimae have an obsession with numbers and count- 
ing, and if they don’t have any pressing business to attend to, they happily spend 
hours tallying practically anything countable they come across: fish in a barrel, 
books on a shelf, jellybeans in a jar, leaves on a tree, etc. If pulled away from a 
count, they are distracted and one Trait down on all Mental and Social 
Challenges until they can return and finish counting the set. They must 
roleplay this diverting fascination as often as possible; it does not interfere with 
truly serious business or the ability of kuberas to defend themselves but should 
be a constant factor in their lives nonetheless. 
Onbines (Ohn-O&&MS) 
These sad water-folk have tried for millennia to understand the Heart 
Riddle and are perhaps the most vexed by it. Still, the Empire of Tears takes it 
in stride as they do most things, and in the course of their investigation they 
have developed a talent for conversation with the meat that makes them the 
envy of their fellow Inanimae. To those outside the Slow Empires, they are a 
paradoxical race, talkative and forthright while at the same time seldom 
revealing much about themselves. While not devious by nature, they are great 
philosophers and conversationalists, and have a talent for taking different yet 
convincing positions on the same issue, or presenting complex arguments that 
lead a listener to conclude something completely different than what they 
believed they were agreeing with. Those who can keep up with ondines in such 
games earn their deep respect, and though they may remain as hard to decipher 
as ever, ondines enjoy matching wits with trusted friends in this fashionandcan 
do so for hours on end. 
As much as they enjoy the company of landwalkers, ondines are out of 
place away from the sea, and even the most casual observer knows it - 
all 
ondines suffer from some handicap, the price the depthless pay for walking on 
the land. This gives them a sad, haunted quality even at the best of times and 
imbues most of their conversation with an slightly awkward yet still touching 
“fish out of water’’ quality that gives their arguments that much more appeal to 
their listeners. Some even say that those ondines in the world have been 
banished by their fellow depthless, punished for one crime or another, though 
the ondines simply wave such accusations away. 
Despite their handicap, ondines have pleasing Husks to look upon, though 
their bright blue or blue-green eyes and the slight bluish tinge to their skin and 
hair is a dead giveaway to those who know their phyla. Behind their Husks, the 
Dreamform of an ondine is truly a thing of beauty - 
they are composed of 
delicately tinted water and thus have a habit of blurring like a watercolor 
painting. They may be any color in this form, but most prefer cool colors and 
pastels to more agitated tones. Ondines are organized in an Athenian-style 


ondine receives a single vote. 
Affinity: Aquis 
Birthrights 
Watery Form: Ondines can revert to liquid form for short periods of time, 
allowing them to slip through small cracks or otherwise escape confinement. 
This costs no Glamour to use but cannot be performed in front of unenchanted 
mortals and only lasts as long as it takes to bypass the barrier in question- they 
cannot remain in this form indefinitely. Furthermore, they are still vulnerable 
to physical attacks in this form; bullets and other ranged weapons do half 
damage, rounded down, but brawling and melee weapons still do full damage, 
as do most cantrips. 
Song of the Siren: Ondines have beautiful voices and can charm others 
around them by singing or telling stories. Those lulled by the ondine’s voice 
become vulnerable to suggestions, as long as these suggestions are not suicidal 
anddo not contradict the target’s Legacy, sworn oaths,Tw love or similar deep- 
seated beliefs. Using this Birthright requires a Social Challenge and the 
expenditure of a Glamour Trait -use standard mob scene rules if the Inanimae 
attempts to use this Birthright on multiple targets simultaneously. Kithain and 
Prodigals can shake off the effects of the voice with a Willpower Trait. 
Otherwise, its effects last for a maximum of one scene or until the suggestion 
is completed, whichever comes first. 
Frailties 
Wounds: No matter how much they may like it on land, ondines were 
never meant to walk on solid ground - 
every day out of water is agonizing for 
them, and each member of this phyla bears some terrible wound as punishment 
for leaving the embrace of the waves. The exact nature of this disability is up 
to the player and the Storyteller to determine, though it must have a significant 
detrimental impact on the ondine’s daily life. This Frailty can be simulated by 
existing Flaws such as One Eye or Lame, although the ondine receives no bonus 
Traits for such wounds. Negative Traits, which can never be bought off, can 
also represent this condition. For example, an ondine with chronic asthma 
might have Sickly or Decrepit, while one with hideous scars might receive a 
Repugnant Trait, and one with a milky eyeball might have the Oblivious Trait. 
Players should also do their best to roleplay the constant low-level pain of being 
on land. 
dbarosemes (dbair-o-Sf LMS) 
Once completely carefree spirits who cared for little more than the 
pleasures of argument, debate and dissembling, recent times have seen the 
parosemes become more and more drawn into a great battle for Sky that they 
see as their only hope to turn back the madness that has infected their kind. 
Parosemes are still great chatterboxes and happily natter on for hours about the 
least little things, but this new duty has at last shown them the burden of 


place for too long, the experience has matured many of this phyla in ways the 
other Inanimae are only too happy to note. 
When not involved in trying to reassert the influence of the Empire of 
Skies over the unruly air of the modem world, parosemes are still the great 
wayfarers, riddlemasters and avengers of past wrongs they once were - 
they 
change their Husks almost as often as they change their minds. They consider 
their short attention span a curse of the modem world’s pollution, but the other 
Inanimae whisper that this is only an excuse for behavior that has long 
infuriated their fellow phyla, though parosemes hotly deny this. They are 
peerless spies and couriers, and most parosemes do not consider themselves 
whole until they have traveled around the world at least two or three times, 
preferably more. 
Paroseme Husks are typically fairly human in appearance, but all appear 
somewhat pale and fragile as though ready to dissipate at any moment. In their 
Dreamform, parosemes are nearly invisible, though most choose to present 
themselves as humanoid “sculptures0 of clouds or similar phenomena to put 
their friends at ease. They refuse to tie themselves down to any mortal 
occupation as a matter of course, and the longest that most parosemes stay in 
one locale is a year and a day before they feel an insatiable need to fly once more. 
Parosemes are ruled by a strange mix of anarchy and tribalism, with a council 
of their eldest meeting every year to decide policies that are then summarily 
ignored by all the parosemes, often these elders included. 
Affinity: Stratus 
Birthrights 
Vaporous Husks: Air spirits are difficult to get a grip on; parosemes may 
voluntarily dissolve their Husks into vapor, allowing them to escape grasping 
hands, slip through cracks and otherwise evade capture. This Birthright costs 
a Glamour Trait per turn of use and cannot be used in the presence of the 
unenchanted; however, while it is active, the paroseme is immune to physical 
attacks and often may attempt a Fair Escape as well (Narrator’s discretion, based 
on the situation). Note that this does not count as destruction of a Husk for the 
purposes of determining if the Inanimae enters Slumber. 
Flight: Parosemes can fly at will. They can attain speeds up to five times 
their normal speed on land, making flight an excellent means of Fair Escape. 
Parosemes may not bring along anyone else with this flight, however, as it 
depends on their ability to merge with the wind and thus cannot support 
anything but themselves and the items they are wearing or carrying. This 
Birthright costs one Glamour Trait per scene (or hour) and is subject to the 
usual risks of flying in front of Banal observers: The paroseme may quickly gain 
Banality or even be shunted into a random point in the Dreaming by the force 
of disbelief if she attempts to fly in front of too many unenchanted mortals. 
Frailties 


any length of time. Even if gagged or otherwise physically prevented from 
talking, the paroseme is still compelled to fidget, tap her fingers or toes, hum 
and so on. Fortunately for those around them, most parosemes use this endless 
stream of words to debate matters of importance to the Sky and other 
substantial topics rather than simply to spread gossip or otherwise waste their 
breath. Still, this ceaseless chatter can get on anyone’s nerves after too long. All 
parosemes receive an Obnoxious Negative Trait, which can never be bought off, 
and must roleplay this constant noise and chatter as much as possible without 
causing anyone to wish them dead out of character. 
Solimonbs (SO-lih-moanbs) 
Although the other Inanimae of the Glade are at last recognizing their 
value to the cause of the Slow Empires, the solimonds have never swerved from 
their original course - 
the protection of their meat allies and their dedication 
to teaching them the proper ways to use the resources of the inanimate world. 
Like Prometheus, solimonds long ago fell in love with humanity and sought to 
teach them the secrets of Flame to help their difficult lives. Sadly, this brought 
down the wrath of their fellow Inanimae as members of other phyla were lost 
to the humans abusing their new gift, and thus the Empire of Flames was 
disbanded, its territory conquered by the glomes and the solimonds scattered 
across the world. Now only a few solimonds remain true to the Glade; the vast 
majority are Krofted, the only way they could hide from their Glade oppressors. 
Even in the face of such extreme adversity, however, the solimonds never 
wavered from their original desire to teach humanity and purge it of the 
needless flotsam it was rapidly burying itself in. As the ages passed, they did their 
best to teach humans the power of flame to both create and destroy, and while 
mortals remained difficult students, the solimonds made the lessons stick and 
did not shy from harsher ones if necessary. No matter what else they might say, 
the other Inanimae never denied that this phyla is universally courageous, 
outspoken and determined. The only problem they have with most of them is 
that solimonds’ own inability to lie makes them painfully na’ive at times, and 
that innocence has led to many of the mistakes that both this phyla and the 
humans who seek to master it have made. For their part, however, the 
solimonds see themselves as knights-errant for a fallen empire, seeking to 
restore the honor of their lost kingdom by the only way they know how - 
questing to make things right. 
In their mortal Husks, solimonds typically have bright red hair, deeply 
tanned skin and incredibly bright eyes. They are usually thin but muscular, and 
in all forms they radiate a high level of heat, leading mortals to believe they are 
feverish. In their Dreamform, solimonds are impressive creatures of living 
flame, with eyes like molten pools. They have trouble fitting in for long with 
most mortal communities, as their unflinching honesty eventually wears on 
even their closest friends, but they make steadfast and brave companions to 


fallen, solimonds used to have a complex feudal system not unlike the Kithain, 
but now they are poorly organized and operate more like a knightly order or 
resistance movement than a true government. 
Affinity: Pyros 
Birthrights 
Clarity of Vision: Like trolls, solimonds with a purpose become nearly 
impossible to sway from their appointed course; they are two Traits up on all 
tests to resist manipulation (supernatural or otherwise) that would divert them 
from reaching one of their goals, and once per story may call on a free retest on 
one such challenge. 
Gout of Flame: By spending a Glamour Trait, the solimond may let loose 
a gout of flame; this flame is normally chimerical but may be Wyrd if the 
solimond has called upon the Wyrd to bring his fae form into the mundane 
world. This flame requires the standard Physical Challenge to hit a resisting 
target and causes two levels of aggravated damage to those it hits. It may also 
ignite flammable materials at the Narrator’s discretion. They have no friends 
among vampires, for obvious reasons. 
Frailties 
Ring of Truth: Solimonds are incapable of lying or even understanding 
the concept of altering the truth. While this can be refreshing in courts where 
gossip, politics and double-dealing are common, it can also get the solimond in 
a great deal of trouble, much like True Thomas. Solimonds may never take the 
Subterfuge Ability, and any time they wish to consciously alter the truth when 
speaking, they must win (not tie) a Simple Test or else gain two temporary 
Banality Traits. This does not mean that solimonds must answer every question 
put to them - 
many are masters of pleading the Fifth - 
but simply that when 
they do answer, they must answer as honestly and completely as the question 
required. Needless to say, players of solimond characters are expected to be 
honest about enforcing this - 
it’s part of the package of playing a solimond 
character, and players who cannot or will not accept this level of responsibility 
should choose a different phyla. 
Little is truly known about this mysterious phyla, save that they appear to 
be a mixture of Kithain and Inanimae, neither fully one or the other, and that 
they can often be found at the edges of both communities, studying them 
intently but seldom saying much. Needless to say, while they are generally 
ignored by their fellow Inanimae, this habit is quite unnerving to most meat 
beings, and no few Kithain whisper dark tales of how the plastic people now 
outnumber the living beings on the planet, pointing to the explosion of toys 
and department store displays that have cropped up in the past century. Most 
dismiss these as wild tales, but others aren’t so sure and think about just how 


after meeting a mannikin for the first time, few Kithain can help but feel the 
weight of their impassive, alien gazes following them as they walk through local 
shopping centers.. .. 
Mannikins remain relentlessly secretive about their goals, if they have any 
as a whole, but it is known they are acutely fascinated with the Heart Riddle, 
and most devote countless hours trying to determine exactly what separates 
them from the meat around them. Although their very nature tends to make 
them among the most human-seeming of the Inanimae, they never get the 
illusion of humanity right, and this can drive them to great fits of rage or despair 
as yet another mortal clique rejects them for reasons they cannot understand. 
They are also impassioned advocates of Krofting and try to convert other 
Inanimae to their way of thinking. This alone is enough to cause other phyla 
to distrust them, though it remains to be seen whether they have sinister 
motives behind this evangelism. 
Mannikins are the Inanimae most likely to hold occupations in the mortal 
world, and most do so as often as Banality permits in order to better understand 
the meat they seek to emulate. While the majority are still Anchored to 
department store mannequins or similar human-size models, and thus have a 
natural (if eerily perfect) beauty to them, a significant minority have Anchors 
in toys with humanlike form, such as dolls or action figures, and thus appear 
much like the toys they come from, though most discard outlandish outfits and 
the like when dealing with human society. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights 
Human Touch: Forged as they are from various ideals of human beauty 
and perfection, all mannikins are adept at passing for human; to reflect this 
intimate knowledge of human appearance, mannikin characters receive the 
Background Husk x 3 for free. Additionally, mannikins whose Anchors are 
actual life-size human models receive a free Gorgeous Social Trait, while those 
whose Anchors are toys or other “unrealistic” forms receive a free Friendly 
Social Trait; neither of these Traits can be permanently lost. 
Bridge Between Flesh: Neither totally Inanimae nor truly Kithain, 
mannikins are considered something of outcasts and oddities by both groups, 
which tends to make them work even harder to fit in. Having roots in both 
groups does have its advantages as well. All mannikins can learn Kithain Arts 
and Realms freely, regardless of Jeu, as well as the regular Slivers and Realms 
that Inanimae can learn; what’s more, mannikins active in Kithain society may 
freely take Backgrounds that are normally restricted for other Inanimae, as they 
are more familiar with the ways of changelings. Mannikins may begin play with 
Kithain Arts and Realms rather than their normal starting Slivers, provided 
they would have had a Kithain to teach them. The Storyteller has final say over 
such choices, and will certainly want a good story to explain them. 


Facades, there is always something wrong with a mannikin’s imitation of life - 
no matter how hard they try, these Inanimae can never completely capture the 
essence of life, which causes no end of frustration for this phyla. To reflect this 
slightly alien and/or artificial cast to their appearance, all mannikins have a 
permanent Repugnant Negative Trait, which can only be called by those who 
know their true nature. Most mannikins are very sensitive about this defect; 
bringing it up to one’s face is considered a serious insult and may well earn the 
taunting character a lasting enemy. 
Velveteen Dreams: All Inanimae are interested in the Heart Riddle, or 
what qualities separate creatures of flesh from the elemental world, but 
mannikins are positively obsessed with it. Many of this phyla long to be living 
beings like the humans and Kithain that created them and actively hunt for 
treasures or cantrips that will allow them to finally become “real” beings of flesh 
and blood; sadly, if such a means has ever been discovered, none know of it, but 
that doesn’t mean the mannikins have stopped looking. Others become 
embittered by the constant reminders of their differences with the meat world, 
but even these mannikins are still obsessed with the Heart Riddle in their own 
way. Mannikins must win a Willpower Challenge against six Traits to resist any 
proposition that promises some chance at becoming “real” and most have a 
hard time resisting even just simple conversation about mortal emotions, 
memories and other aspects of the Heart Riddle. 
Being the animate embodiment of elemental forces tends to give one a 
slightly different perspective on things. Thus, Inanimae have some 
correspondingly unique Backgrounds to represent their singular role in the 
Dreaming, and even conventional Backgrounds an Inanimae might select are 
often quite different from a Kithain’s -for 
example, a glome might harvest a 
gold mine by his Anchor to bring him Resources. 
Husk 
This Background determines how skilled an Inanimae is at crafting her 
Husk. While many Inanimae scoff at this skill initially, it quickly becomes 
obvious how critical this talent is for blending in with mortals and avoiding the 
heavy touch of Banality. The level of this Background indicates how closely the 
Inanimae’s Husk resembles a regular human being: 
None - 
No changes at all. The character’s Husk is identical to her 
Dreamform, meaning that she is clearly inhuman to any who observe her. 
Interaction with Banal observers earns the Inanimae a Banality Trait for every 
minute of exposure, as the weight of their disbelief eats away at her Husk, and 
most mortals react with fear or aggression. The Inanimae is considered three 
Traits down on all non-intimidation Social Challenges with mortals or 
Prodigals. 


shape and perhaps a reasonably human skin tone. Casual scrutiny still exposes 
the character to Banality as outlined above, but the character may prevent this 
by standing in shadows, wearing very bulky clothing, etc. The Inanimae is 
considered two Traits down on all non-intimidation Social Challenges with 
mortals and Prodigals. 
Two Trait - 
Minor changes. The character has basic human features and 
a regular human shape, and some of the little details (hair, fingernails, teeth, 
etc.) are finished as well. Banal observers can still inflict Banality on the 
character, but most features are fine enough to be hidden with a good costume 
and some acting skills. The Inanimae is considered one Trait down on all non- 
intimidation Social Challenges with non-fae. 
Three Trait - 
Human appearance. The character can now pass for a 
normal human without difficulty in most circumstances and need not fear 
Banality unless put under direct observation. 
Four Trait - 
Nearly perfect. Not only does the character pass casual 
inspection, but even close examination (such as a physical) has trouble 
discovering the Inanimae’s true nature. Indeed, the disguise is so convincing 
that the Inanimae is one Trait up on all Social Challenges to persuade others 
of her “normal” nature, provided she doesn’t make it obvious by some accident. 
Five Trait - 
Undetectable. Only advanced diagnostic procedures can tell 
that the character is anything other than human, and the Inanimae is now two 
Traits up to convince others of her mundane nature. The disguise is so good that 
even most banal observers actively reject the suggestion that the Inanimae is 
anything other than human, actually strengthening the character’s claim. 
Regarb 
This Background determines how well known and well regarded a character 
is within her empire. In game mechanics, it functions the same as the Kithain 
Titk Background. In Inanimae society, however, it reflects amore general sense 
of respect than the narrow and often hereditary powers that back up a Kithain 
title, and thus Inanimae are much less likely to overlook the Regard of one of 
their own unless given good reason to do so. 
One Trait- Minor regard (medicine man, scout) 
Two Trait- Small regard (scholar, rabble-rouser) 
Three Trait- Established regard (low-ranking military, emissary) 
Four Trait- High regard (high-ranking military, legislative member) 
Five Trai- Extreme regard (ruling body, truth-sayer) 
Mew Merits and Flaws 
Merits 
Natural Husk (3 Trait Merit) 


one level of the Husk Background. Any phyla may take this Merit. 
Famous Anchor (3.5 Trait Merit) 
Your Anchor is a cherished monument, place or artifact, whether Glade 
or Krofted, and there are plenty of meat folks who actively protect your Anchor. 
A three-Trait example would be something like Babe Ruth‘s baseball bat, a 
famous musician’s instrument or a stand of trees in Golden Gate Park. A four- 
Trait example would be a national forest, a Chippendale chair or a marble 
statue, while a five-Trait example might be the Washington Monument, 
Redwood National Forest or Michelangelo’s David. Any phyla may take this 
Merit. 
91aws 
Polluted/Defaced (1-3 Trait Flaw) 
Your Anchor has been damaged by pollution (acid rain, smog, etc.) or 
deliberately defaced by the action of others (graffiti, vandalism, etc.). This 
makes you sickly and weak. In addition to roleplaying the damage, you suffer 
one or two Negative Traits relating to ill health (Flabby, Lame, Sickly) if you 
take the one- or two-Trait version of this Flaw. If you take the three-Trait 
version, you permanently lose one health level. Any phyla may take this Flaw. 
Pig-Pen (2 Trait Flaw) 
You leave a noticeable trail of dust and dirt in your wake wherever you go. 
The grit looks like the same material as your Anchor. Only glomes may take this 
Flaw. 
Hibernation (5 Trait Flaw) 
You are active only during the spring, summer and autumn. You grow 
listless and quiet with autumn and fall into Slumber with the arrival of winter, 
awakening normally with spring. To be active during the winter, you must 
spend one Glamour per week. Only kubera may take this Flaw. 
Pyromania (5 Trait Flaw) 
You have an irresistible urge to set fires and get an indescribable high from 
watching flames spread and devour. At the beginning of each session, make a 
Willpower Challenge - 
if you fail, you must set at least one fire that day to 
satisfy your urge. This dangerous compulsion may well get you in trouble with 
the law, both mortal and Kithain. Only solimonds may take this Flaw. 
Slivers 
In these days, only Inanimae can draw on the power of the natural world 
to create magical effects. Most Inanimae learn the Sliver that corresponds to 
their own affinity first and foremost, and those of their kind who learn multiple 
Slivers are accorded a great deal of respect. An Inanimae may never have more 
levels of another Sliver than she has of the one relating to her own natural 
affinity, except for mannikins, who may learn any Sliver they like. 


instinctively grasp - 
those wise in the ways of air and its Stratus Sliver become 
able weathermen, for example, while those who study Aquis may travel freely 
underwater. 
Muteriel 
Inanimae require a means to awaken their power, much like Kithain - 
they call this activator Materiel, and it acts much like a Bunk. Materiel can be 
carried as pieces of the natural world, or it can be performed as anatural process. 
The rarer the Materiel, the greater the power invoked. The only time when 
Materiel is not needed is if the Inanimae is using her phyla’s Sliver while she 
is in contact with her Anchor. Each Sliver has a particular Materiel attached 
to it, which must be used to invoke that Sliver. The Inanimae may attempt to 
use another Materiel to invoke her Sliver but must spend an additional 
Glamour Trait on the casting. 
Like Bunks, Materiel is made more valuable by rarity and complexity. Each 
Sliver has itsown requirements about rarity, although the Storyteller is the final 
arbiter on value. The Storyteller may also wish to set a limit on the number of 
times a particular Materiel can be used; an Inanimae who continually uses a 
single source of Materiel may find that she literally strip-mines the magic right 
out of it. 
Aquis - 
Water that is changed or in a form other than plain liquid is this 
Sliver’s Materiel, such as snow, ice, rain, fog, dew, steam or even heavy water. 
Purified or polluted water may also qualify. 
Petros -Minerals 
and metals are the Materiel for Petros. The rareness of 
the mineral or material in question, as well as how extensively it’s altered, 
increases Materiel Traits. Lodestones, rock from asteroids, or stones with holes 
due to erosion, as well as precious and semiprecious stones, are said to have 
particular magical properties. Iron may never be used as Materiel. 
Pyros - 
Burned offerings! Burning a variety of items in a variety of ways 
is the Materiel for Pyros. The more rare the burned item, or the more involved 
its burning, the greater the Materiel Traits - 
so a Celtic wicker man burned 
in ritual would produce a grand effect, while a minor torching of a notebook 
would be far less spectacular. 
Stratus - 
Music inspires the power of air, but not just any music. Only 
tunes that are whistled or blown into instruments that require wind (brass or 
woodwinds of all types) produce Materiel. Complexity often gives more Traits 
(“Flight of the Bumblebee” is quite popular with parosemes needing help), but 
sometimes, a simple tune of unwavering purity works just as well. 
Verdage- Plants of all varieties make up the Materiel for this Sliver. Rare 
plants (rarity may be based on what is native to the area) or elaborate 
preparation (potpourri, attar, perfume) increase the Materiel’s value. Many 
woods and plants have magical properties ascribed by myth and legend, which 


and St. John’s Wort, feverfew and moss are just a few ideas. 
Realms 
Like the Kithain, Inanimae divide their knowledge of Slivers into various 
Realms, which they can use to affect different targets with their magic. Unlike 
the Kithain, the Inanimae divide their Realms along the lines of the elemental 
world: Air, Water, Fire, Earth and Spirit. These Realms roughly correspond to 
various Kithain Realms but also reflect a deeper understanding and awareness 
of the Realm than is normally represented by Realms. For example, an Inanimae 
skilled in the Earth Realm has basically the same powers as a Kithain with the 
Prop Realm, but what’s more, he may sense a coming earthquake, be able to feel 
a fault line running underneath, and so on; likewise, an Inanimae with the 
Water Realm has the equivalent of the Actor Realm for Kithain, but also has an 
innate knowledge of tides, currents and the like. To reflect this, Inanimae are 
up a number of Traits equal to the levels they have in a particular Realm on all 
tests regarding that element that don’t relate to combat or cantrips. The 
Storyteller should feel free to use this heightened awareness of the elements for 
foreshadowing, dropping clues and so forth. 


corresponding to their native element. Additionally, it should be noted that 
Inanimae need only one level of the Spirit Realm to affect themselves (they are 
not Gallain to themselves, after all!). 
Aquis 
Those proficient in this Sliver learn the great patience and tranquility of 
the sea, as well as a measure of its ancient wisdom; all things came from the sea, 
so it is said, and one day the ondines believe all things will return there. This 
is a Sliver of time, motion and peace, allowing the ondines to keep things calm 


depth underwater with the same ease that they exist on land. 
Basic 
Aura Perception: Many ondines believe that souls are a kind of divine 
fluid stirred into constant motion; with this Sliver, the Inanimae can glimpse 
these perpetually shifting auras, allowing him to learn a wealth of information 
about his target. To use this Sliver, the Inanimae must observe his target and 
make a Mental Test against a difficulty equal to the target’s Mental Traits. For 
each challenge the Inanimae wins, he may learn one of the following pieces of 
information about his target: kith; Court; active Legacy; relative Glamour and 
Banality levels; if the target is enchanted; if the target is currently affected by 
a cantrip (a separate test is required to reveal what sort of magic is at work); 
whether the last statement the target made was a lie; what manner of creature 
the target is (mortal, wizard, vampire, shapeshifter, etc.); even the subject’s 
current emotional state (as described in a sentence or two, which the subject 
must relate honestly). 
Unlike normal cantrip tests, these questions may be retested with the 
Kenning Ability; however, no more tests may be made than the number of 
Materiel Traits gained in casting, and if the Inanimae fails to cast this cantrip 
successfully, he may not attempt to read that target’s aura for another hour. 
Unless the target has some way to detect scrying powers or the Sliver is 
advertised with flashy Materiel, the target is normally unaware of this Sliver’s 
usage. 
Test: Mental 
Type: Chimerical 
Friction: By studying the various shapes water takes with different levels 
of heat, the Inanimae learns how to freeze things solid or bring them to their 
boiling point in mere seconds. This power does not function directly on living 
or undead targets, though any clothing or equipment they may be carrying is fair 
game. Frozen items lose one Bonus Trait (when applicable), gain the Negative 
Trait Delicate and shatter if the user places too much strain on them or if a 
challenger wins an additional Simple Test after any successful test involving 
the item. Boiling or melting items lose one Bonus Trait, have the Negative 
Trait Painful and cause one level of lethal heat damage each turn that their user 
is in unprotected contact with them. (Note: Gloves and other conventional 
clothing offer no protection for all but the smallest items.) Combustible objects 
such as clothing catch fire if targeted by this power, and more complicated items 
such as firearms or electronics may be rendered useless if exposed to prolonged 
heat or cold, at the Narrator’s discretion. This power lasts for a number of turns 
equal to the Materiel Traits gained in casting, though any damage done to the 
item during this time remains after the cantrip ends, and repeated uses of this 
power may eventually weaken even sturdy items beyond repair. 
Test: Physical 


Intermediate 
Hold: By robbing an object of kinetic energy, the Inanimae can essentially 
slow a target to a crawl or even stop it in mid-motion: Bullets drop to the ground, 
mighty punches become gentle taps and so on. Alternately, the Inanimae can 
suspend energy temporarily; for example, the caster might freeze an arrow in 
mid-flight, walk out of its path, and then restore its energy so it continues as it 
was originally fired. Items can be suspended for up to a number of turns equal 
to the Materiel Traits gained in casting, plus an additional turn for every 
Glamour Trait the Inanimae is willing to spend. Living or undead beings held 
in place by this Sliver are stopped for one turn; each additional turn requires a 
Glamour Trait, and those with supernatural strength (including ogres and 
trolls) may attempt to break free by winning a Physical Test. If used defensively, 
this power allows the Inanimae to create a field of “slow force” around the 
cantrip’s target, effectively allowing one so protected to ignore a number of 
levels of damage equal to the Materiel Traits gained in casting. A target may 
only be under the effects of one such cantrip at a time, however, and it must be 
completely usedup before another can be cast. Obviously, only attacks that rely 
on “directed” kinetic force are affected by this shield: Bullets and brawling 
attacks are blocked, but lightning bolts, flame strikes, mental attacks and even 
most Holly Strike cantrips bypass the shield entirely. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Wyrd (occasionally Chimerical) 
Healing Waters: This Sliver is identical to the Primal Art Heather Balm. 
Advanced 
Tempus Fugit: This Sliver is essentially a combination of the Kithain Arts 
Test: Mental 
Type: Wyrd 
(See The Shining Host, page 139.) 
Dream Time and Quicksilver. (See The Shining Host, pages 131 and 148.) 
Petros 
Glomes are acutely sensitive to the songs of the shifting earth, and like the 
stones themselves, the simple nature of most Petros cantrips belies their 
incredible power and versatility. This is a straightforward Sliver, like its 
wielders, but no less mighty because of it. Those who learn this Sliver gain a free 
retest on all rock-climbing efforts and have the difficulty of such actions 
reduced by four Traits (minimum one Trait). 
Basic 
Living Rock: With this subtle but potent Sliver, the Inanimae may shape 
nearby earth and stone into whatever form she desires, as well as transmute a 
present mineral or ore into another. To sculpt the earth, the Inanimae must 
grasp it with her bare hands, literally molding it into the desired form; needless 


time-consuming process. The amount of stone that can be changed and/or the 
extent to which it can be altered depends on the Materiel Traits gained in 
casting: 1-2 Materiel Traits allow for minor alterations of stone no larger than 
a human fist; 3-4 Traits allows for full transformation of a rock up to the size of 
the average troll; 5+ Traits can shape boulder-size rocks and perhaps (with 
sufficient levels of Gremyre and Narrator permission) even conjure elements 
of legend such as the Philosopher’s Stone, though such fantastic mineral 
creations quickly fade to ordinary stone when exposed to Banality. 
Note: This Sliver can never be used to create or sculpt cold iron. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Stoneskin: As per the Kithain Art Oakenshield (see The Shining Host, 
page 139), except that the target need not expend Stamina-related Physical 
Traits and gains one additional bonus-since 
the protection is drawn from the 
nearby stone, the target takes on the rough appearance of that stone as well, 
putting him two Traits up on all tests to hide among stone of that type. This 
latter advantage is nullified by foes with supernatural senses, such as Heightened 
Senses. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Intermediate 
Ironarm: An Inanimae with this Sliver can tap into the power of the earth 
itself, allowing him or the target ofhis choice to perform great feats of strength. 
For each Materiel Trait gained in casting, the target gains one Strength-related 
Physical Trait. These extra Traits last for one scene or combat, though never 
more than an hour in either case. In addition, due to his great strength, the user 
gains the ability to call a free “Might” retest on all Strength-related challenges; 
once “Might” is invoked, it is the last retest that can be used in that particular 
challenge, for better or worse, unless the opponent has lronum as well. A target 
may only have one Ironam cantrip in place at a time. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Stasis: With this potent Sliver, the Inanimae can slow opponents to a 
crawl by forcing them into “geological time” - 
essentially, while this cantrip 
is in effect, even minor actions seem like major undertakings to the target, and 
her combat prowess is severely hampered as well. Each Materiel Trait gained 
in casting slows the target down by a factor of one: With one Trait, the 
Inanimae forces his foe to act once every other turn (combat time) and take 
twice as long to perform actions (standard time); with two Traits, his foe acts 
every third turn in combat and takes three times as long to complete actions 
outside of combat and so on. Extra actions gained from supernatural powers 
such as Quicksilver or Celerity are still available, though they can only be 


Y 
still defend themselves normally, although they cannot use most forms of Fair 
Escape and are considered down a number of Traits equal to the caster’s 
Materiel Traits due to their slowed reaction times. This Sliver costs a Glamour 
Trait and a Willpower Trait to use, and lastsfor one scene or combat, whichever 
comes first. During that time, the target must stay within the Inanimae’s line 
of sight or the cantrip is broken immediately. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Quake: With this mighty Sliver, the Inanimae can shake the foundations 
of the world itself, causing a highly localized but intense earthquake centered 
on the target(s) of his choice. Each Materiel Trait gained in casting adds three 
paces to the quake’s range, which is determined by counting outward from 
“ground zero” (whatever the Inanimae chooses as his primary target). Allies, 
enemies, bystanders - 
all those in the area of effect except the caster must 
immediately make a Physical Challenge against a difficulty of the caster’s 
Physical Traits - 
Materiel Traits count - 
or fall to the ground and take one 
level of bashing damage. In addition, the target of the quake takes two levels 
of bashing damage from the seismic forces, jutting rocks and twisting fissures 
created by the Sliver. Naturally, as this power can cause substantial alterations 
to the landscape of the game, the Storyteller should be on hand to describe the 
results of the tremors as well as determine what damage (if any) is caused to 
buildings and other structures in the quake’s radius. Care should be taken to 
note whether the quake is chimerical or physical, as this has a great deal of 
impact on how mortals in the area react to this power! 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
doyros 
Although their most visible power is their awesome command over flames 
of all kinds, the passionate solimonds can also control the proverbial fires of the 
heart, allowing them to play with the emotions of others. It is rumored that the 
Pyretics Art of the Kithain is a watered-down version of this Sliver. Those who 
learn this Sliver need never carry matches again - 
they can light small, 
initially harmless fires anywhere. 
Art Note: Do not use real fires at any point for any reason in any situation! 
This is a game about the power of the imagination, and White Wolf neither 
encourages nor assumes any responsibility for any mishaps from players foolish 
enough to bring real fires into their game. 
Type of Challenge: Physical or Social 
Basic 


can control all aspects of the fire - 
size, light, heat - 
as well as cause other 
substances to burst into flame. The amount of fire controlled and the extent of 
the changes that can be made are determined by how many Materiel Traits are 
used in the casting: 1-2 Traits indicates small campfire/hot/firelight/one health 
level; 3-4 Traits equals fire mastery up to a normal bonfire/boiling/halogen 
bulb/two health levels; 5 + Traits is a large bonfire/searing/arc light/three health 
levels. Each aspect the character wishes to alter requires a Simple Test; on a win 
or a tie, the change can be made at no cost. If the test is lost, the change may 
still be made, but it costs a Physical Trait as well. Causing a substance or 
individual to burst into flame requires a Physical Challenge (Materiel Traits 
count), and generally requires at least three Materiel Traits, unless the 
substance is especially flammable such as paper or dry brush. Objects securely 
in the character’s possession require no test to ignite, only Materiel of sufficient 
strength to start the fire. All fires under the character’s control may be returned 
to their regular state (if controlled) or even extinguished entirely (if created) 
at the character’s desire; this does not count as an action. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Tortured Heart: Emotions are the fires of the heart, so they say, and with 
this Sliver the Inanimae may alternately bank or douse the emotions of her 
target, turning quiet dislike into seething hatred or passionate love into mild 
attachment. Any emotion may be affected by this power; however, each 
emotion the caster wishes to alter costs one Social Trait and requires a separate 
cantrip casting. In addition, while emotions may be amplified or muted by this 
power, they cannot be created from nothing, nor reversed outright - 
love can 
be changed to apathy, for example, but not hate, and loyalty cannot be 
spontaneously invoked toward a total stranger. Within those guidelines, 
however, the Inanimae can play with the target’s emotions to her heart’s 
content, making this a very dangerous Sliver indeed. Characters with truly deep 
bonds- those with Merits or Flaws like True Love, Hatred, etc. -receive a free 
retest to resist any attempts to manipulate those specific emotions, and even if 
successfully manipulated, they cost the Inanimae an extra Glamour Trait to 
complete the cantrip. This Sliver lasts for one scene and cannot be used against 
the same target regarding the same emotion more than once a night. 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Ares’ Fist: Solimonds are at home among the fires of war, and this Sliver 
represents something of what they have learned in their ages on the battlefield. 
When activated, this Sliver suffuses the caster’s form with the fires of Mars, the 
warrior’s planet, transforming him into a truly formidable fighting machine. 
Each Materiel Trait gained in casting grants the caster an additional level of the 


normal maximum of five levels in an Ability, and if they do, the character gains 
the Brawl: Ummed and Melee: Melee Weapons specializations for the duration 
of the cantrip. These bonus Ability levels are otherwise treated exactly like 
normal Ability levels for the purposes of combat and fade away if unused at the 
end of the current combat or scene, whichever comes first. Multiple castings of 
this Sliver are not cumulative. In addition, while this Sliver can be used on 
others, only solimonds are able to withstand the fires of Mars without injury. 
Glomes and parosemes using this Art automatically suffer a level of bashing 
damage; ondines, kubera and mannikins take an automatic level of lethal 
damage; Kithain, Prodigals and all others who have this Art used on them take 
two levels of aggravated damage. This is not a Sliver to invoke lightly, but when 
used properly it can turn the tide of battle. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Strings of the Soul: An advanced version of Tortured Heart, this Sliver 
allows the Inanimae to do all the things listed under that Sliver’s description, 
as well as a few additional effects. Emotions may now be created from nothing, 
switched for each other or even doused entirely, at a cost of one Glamour Trait 
per emotion so controlled. For a Social Trait, a passion may be flipped to its 
inverse. Best of all, the caster is no longer limited to manipulating one emotion 
per cantrip casting- each extra emotion controlled costs an additional Social 
Trait, but that is all. The need for an extra Glamour Trait to control especially 
strong passions such as True Love still applies, but the target no longer receives 
a free retest regarding those emotions. This Sliver lasts for one scene and can 
be used on a target as many times per session or day as the caster is able. 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Inferno: Inanimae with this Sliver have learned how to completely master 
flame: They may control normal fires at whim, create blazes from little more 
than a thought, even create creatures or objects out of living flame. Treat the 
creation or control of normal flame as if the Inanimae had received five 
Materiel Traits on the Flame Sliver (above) and scale upward for additional 
Materiel Traits the Inanimae uses during the casting - 
Narrator’s discretion 
for what is possible at the upper limits of this power, but it should be impressive. 
In no instance should a use of this power cause more than four levels of lethal 
damage or three levels of aggravated, however. Treat objects or creatures 
created/transformed into “living” flame as though they were under the effects 
of the Pyretics Art Star Body. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 


This Sliver allows great powers of illusion, trickery and deception, which 
suits the parosemes just fine - 
it allows them to leave their heavier, earthbound 
foes far behind. It also cuts down on travel times, making the already swift 
parosemes able to travel great distances in little more than the blink of an eye. 
Those with this Sliver may also make a Mental Challenge to predict the 
weather for the next few hours. 
Basic 
Marathon: When it comes to traveling in a hurry, Inanimae with this 
Sliver put even eshu messengers to shame. Most scholars claim that this Sliver 
opens tiny trods in the Near Dreaming that the caster then uses as shortcuts 
through the waking world. Regardless of the means, for each Materiel Trait 
gained in casting, the Inanimae may reduce travel times. Thus, aparoseme who 
gains one Materiel Trait has travel time reduced by a third, while one who gains 
two Materiel Traits cuts her travel time by half, etc. This effect lasts for the 
duration of a single one-way trip between two points - 
each journey requires 
a separate cantrip. Note that this Sliver does not provide extra actions or 
otherwise actually speed up the target, it simply decreases travel times. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Wyrd 
Conceal/Confuse: As the Kithain Arts Fuddle and Veiled Eyes. (See The 
Shining Host, pages 128-9.) 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Flight: As the Kithain Art Wind Runner. (See The Shining Host, page 
149.) Parosemes receive a bonus Materiel Trait when using this Sliver due to 
their natural affinity for flight. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Wyrd 
Illusion: With this Sliver, the Inanimae may create illusions that appeal 
to all five senses. The only limit is the caster’s imagination and the Realms she 
has mastered. These illusions are actually very temporary chimera, and as such 
disappear immediately if the caster attempts to harm someone with them 
(either physically or chimerically). They may only perform simple tasks, which 
they repeat until the caster mentally commands them to stop. More complex 
actions require the caster’s full concentration (two-Trait penalty to all other 
tests while so engaged). Usually, only those with supernatural senses can 
attempt to pierce such complex illusions, although especially alert or suspicious 
characters may also detect something amiss with a successful Kenning Test 
(Narrator’s discretion). Each illusion created requires the expenditure of one 
Social Trait, as does each task the caster wishes the illusion to perform, in 
addition to any other costs required by casting the cantrip. 


Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Phantasm: As the Kithain Art Phantom Shadows. (See The Shining Host, 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical (all Phantasms made real by calling on the Wyrd cost a 
page 135.) 
Social Trait per five minutes to maintain.) 
Verbage 
Though many Kithain feel a close bond to the natural world and the cycle of 
life it sustains, few can hope to match the depth to which kubera perceive the 
environment around them. This Sliver allows them to promote the growth of new 
life, shape the life around them and otherwise touch the life energy they are 
immersed in all of their lives. Those with this Sliver may make a Mental Challenge 
to identity any plant or animal they encounter, provided it is a natural specimen. 
Basic 
Solarium: Similar to the Living Rock Sliver, this power allows the caster to 
control the growth and animation of plant life: Flowers bloom in minutes, 
weeds die with but a glance, grasses shoot up and entangle travelers, etc. Plants 
cannot be given sentience with this power, nor can they uproot themselves and 
walk or perform similarly unnatural feats, but they can be made to do things like 
restrain opponents and the like. (Treat such uses as identical to the Legerdemain 
Art Entangle in The Shining Host.) Players are encouraged to work with 
Narrators to adjudicate other uses of this Sliver if they intend them to have any 
game effect. Note that regardless of the effect description, this cantrip normally 
cannot cause actual damage to an opponent, only restrain him. One Physical 
Trait is required to animate each tree or a small patch of flowers/grasses, subject 
to the limitations of the Materiel involved. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Babel: This Sliver is essentially identical to the Primal Art Willow Whisper, 
but with one major exception - 
whereas the Kithain must communicate with 
the objects of such cantrips at their target’s level of intelligence (making most 
objects stilted conversationalists at best), the Inanimae are much closer to the 
natural world than their flesh cousins and thus can speak to the spirit of their 
target rather than simply its shell, letting them converse at their own level of 
comprehension. Inanimae are able to learn much more from their Sessile 
brethren than most Kithain, giving them a subtle but powerful information 
edge in many situations. 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical 


Coalesce: Inanimae with this Sliver are adept at creating all manner of 
tools from the organic matter all around them, and given sufficient time and 
Materiel can create just about anything provided it uses no metal or mineral 
parts, and no electricity or chemical reactions to function. Items created with 
this Sliver can be made as hard as steel, if the caster so desires, and are otherwise 
treated as perfectly normal items of their type, with normal Bonus Traits, 
Negative Traits, etc. In addition to the normal Materiel required for this Sliver, 
the Inanimae must also take the pieces she is using and shape them into arough 
facsimile of the item, then invest them with Glamour by touching them with 
her hands. Each Glamour Trait allows the item to be used for one scene; at the 
end of the scene, the item reverts to its previous state. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Web of Life: By carefully observing the minute interactions of living things 
in the area, the Inanimae may gain insight into the patterns developing around 
her own existence, effectively allowing her to predict the future. Alternately, the 
character may learn general information regarding the present, though such 
knowledge is limited to events and individuals relatively nearby (no more than 
amile away). In game terms, this Sliver is effectively identical to the Soothsay Art 
of Augury, except that all information gained from it should be couched in terms 
of the biosphere -“a wolf howls a warning to the sky as storm clouds gather,” etc. 
Test: Social 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Mold: At this level of power, the Inanimae may transmute any organic 
substance into another: Flesh becomes bark, leaves become bone, blood turns 
to sap and vice versa. Mold may also be used to completely change a target’s 
shape (such as turning a human into a tree), though even so the new form 
reflects traces of its original identity: A dog transformed into a person would be 
hairy and retain some canine mannerisms, while a tree shaped from a fae would 
have a vaguely humanoid form. This Sliver has a variable Glamour cost, 
depending on the extent of alterations made: 
1 Glamour Trait Minor changes (hair to leaves, fur to flesh, nails to bone) 
2 Glamour Traits Significant changes (skin to bark, blood to chlorophyll) 
3 Glamour Traits Total transformation 
These alterations are technically permanent, though the caster may 
reverse them at any time, and another Inanimae with this Sliver or Kithain 
with comparable Arts (Elder-Form, Mythic Transformation) may attempt to 
undo such magic by defeating the original caster in a cantrip challenge. 
Test: Physical 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 


The History of Mightmares 
Listen closely as Simon Victor, sluagh seer, whispers taks of how the Shadow 
Court came to be. 
Welcome. Dositdown. Would youlikesome tea?No?Yourloss-Iground 
the spiders myself. Oh, come now, don’t tell me that made you squeamish! If a 
little trifle like that can upset you, perhaps I’d best not tell you what else I 
know.. . . You are prepared? Excellent. 
Olben mays 
Once, there was no need for us. Don’t let it sting your pride - 
we all hope 
for the day we become unnecessary again, mask it though some might. No, what 
I meant was that in times long past, before the Shattering, the Seelie and the 
Unseelie alternated rule as was their ancient custom -the 
Seelie ruled from 
Beltaine to Samhain, and the Unseelie from Samhain to Beltaine. It was all part 
of the cycle, you see: We Unseelie would rule as the winter nights lengthened 
and the world died around us, while the Seelie would command the lands as 
spring blossomed into summer and life was abundant. Makes sense, doesn’t it? 
Indeed it did, and for centuries the balance was maintained, as faeries of both 
courts realized what benefit there was to letting those best suited to rule take 
control, rather than having one court trying to encompass both light and 
darkness. 
It all hinged on one glorious night for us - 
Samhain, the night that the 
veil between worlds thinned and the order of faerie society turned upside down. 
The earliest “Shadow Courts” were like the ones you still see every Samhain, 
mock courts of commoners made noble for a night, while the nobles of the land 
go as commoners. Except in those days, there was one other great custom: 


dead. With thisritual, the fae could renew themselves and experience rebirth, 
for time meant little to them in those days, and so questing along the Bright 
Road was necessary to come to terms with their immortality and be reincarnated 
once more. It was a difficult test, especially for the sidhe, and only got harder 
as the years passed and the mortal world grew colder and more distant to the 
supernatural, but we Unseelie never neglected the tradition, though most of the 
Seelie found it distasteful and preferred not to speak of it. Still, the courts 
changed hands with the seasons, the fae walked among the living and the dead, 
and the world maintained its balance. 
When the Shattering came, the sidhe fled, and along with them the 
tradition of switching courts. Though a few commoner lands maintained it, by 
and large the feeling of the time was that the world was fast sliding to chaos and 
disorder. The Seelie felt it was their duty to take control, in an effort to 
“maintain order and tradition.” Pah! We were not the ones to pretend the 
Bright Road did not exist! We were not the ones who pursued isolation and 
superiority to mortals! We were not the ones to cling to archaic order as the 
world changed! Unseelie fae have always been deemed the masters of chance, 
change and chaos, and yet when the need for fae who understood such forces 
arose as the world warped, what did the Seelie do? Slander us! At best, we were 
layabouts and buffoons who did not understand the “seriousness” of things. At 
worst, we were criminals and monsters, unfit for their society. 
Not all Unseelie accepted these new labels, nor did all the fae forget the 
ancient traditions, and as their discontent with societies both faerie and mortal 
grew, the true Shadow Court was born. Masking their activities behind the 
mock court of Samhain that shared the name, where they weeded out the 
poseurs and pretenders from the true believers, these crafty Unseelie began 
preparing for the disaster they knew could only come of the imbalance the 
Seelie were creating. Even in the face of growing signs of the harm their 
stubbornness was causing the fae (and thus the mortals who depended on them 
for inspiration and wisdom), the Seelie still refused to relinquish their thrones, 
and their libel of the Unseelie only grew more foul as they sought to discredit 
us and keep us from assuming our rightful place in faerie society. Sadly, a great 
number of commoners believed the lore and came to distrust us as well, forcing 
us to retreat further from the light of the world to continue our activities. 
We were far from idle. Embracing chill Samhain winds and peering into 
the shadowsof the Underworld, we learned the truth about the future the Seelie 
were so proud of: the long-prophesied Endless Winter, where all would be 
pitched into blackness forever and the wicked things long denied the world 
would reign supreme. The knowledge broke some of us, but the rest began 
preparing for Endless Winter, and some even started taking steps to help bring 
it about, undermining the Seelie at every chance. What?How could we support 
such a “heinous” cause? Tsk tsk, you’ve been listening to too much Seelie 
propaganda. The answer is really very simple - 
it has been prophesied, and not 


many start their journey into shadow for more petty reasons such as power or 
revenge, but in time all who remain with the Court come to see the truth of the 
deeper meaning behind our actions and accept it. That is simply how things are. 
So it continued for the centuries following the Shattering, with the true 
Shadow Court hiding behind the actions of its more visible counterpart, 
advancing its plans to survive the coming Endless Winter while the Seelie 
slowly guided the fae toward ever-greater disaster. 
Mobern rimes 
The past several centuries have been kind to us, the 20th century 
especially. Why is that? Because as the mortals grew dissatisfied with their world 
and the order that ruled it, their dreams gave power to our own efforts to cast 
off the Seelie rule; as mortals discovered democracy, anarchy and antimonarchial 
politics, we thrilled in our shadows and grew ever stronger. As technology 
delivered mortals the power to run their own lives, apart from their governments 
and each other, we embraced it and took it in our own directions. Unlike the 
Seelie, who like to pretend that the world is still the place of fantasy and honor 
that it once was, we accept the fact that the world has changed. While they 
cling to their swords and horses, we learned the ways of pistols and engines. 
Who made the better choice?I’ll let you decide, after the trusty firearm you wear 
drops Sir High-and-Mighty long before he gets a chance to unsheathe his 
mighty sword. 
Six hundred years of Seelie rule, and what is there to show for it? Take a 
long look at the world around you before you answer. Next time you hear a wise 
sidhe or noble troll expounding on how the Seelie are the only ones fit enough 
to rule, let your bitter laughter ring loud in their ears. The omens of Endless 
Winter are all around us, so obvious that even those outside the Shadow Court 
cannot helpbut notice them. ThereturnoftheFallenOnes-thesidhe-only 
proved that Arcadia was in trouble; why else would they cast away their 
beautiful children? Certainly, they say it was “to save us all from Winter,’’ but 
think about it - 
how many of them stayed behind to save us when the 
Shattering struck? After that, do you really think they’d give up their beautiful 
paradise to save us now? Neither do I. Likewise, the return of our Thallain 
cousins can only tell those with the courage to face the truth that the monsters 
of old are returning, and that the time for the Unseelie comes at last. 
All the prophecies have come to pass - 
the loss of a king, the birth of a 
star, the return of creatures foul, the stirrings of war between noble and 
commoner.. . and those are only our prophecies. The vampires who speak of 
their elders rising, the werewolves who talk of the great spirit of evil descending 
on the world, the spirits of the dead and their storm to end all storms - 
all of 
these have already begun, or so our spies tell us. It cannot be denied - 
Endless 
Winter comes, and those who cling to their Seelie ways will be destroyed as the 


-
-
 
and the rites the Shadow Court has kept safe will survive, even grow strong in 
the new world. It is neither good nor evil that this is so - 
simply a destiny that 
can no longer be denied. If we are the ones to recognize and profit by it, so be 
it. Embrace the way of change and grow strong from it. 
Welcome to the revolution at the end of the world. 
Che Manifesto 
Long ago, the founders of the Shadow Court created a set of guiding 
principles to keep their followers unified in purpose and remind them of the 
goals that all the denizens of shadow should seek to fulfill. While expressed in 
various forms throughout the years, the essence has remained the same, and all 
Shadow Court fae respect the wisdom it contains. Bear in mind that while it is 
far from dogma, those who do not at least pay lip service to these tenets are 
frequently summoned before the higher echelons of the Shadow Court to 
explain themselves, as these philosophies express the core of the court, and 
those who disagree with them too strongly are likely to prove disloyal in the 
future. 
T h e  First Tenet 
Understand the mortal world, and shelter those who cannot live within it. 
To be Unseelie is to understand that change is inevitable, and that means 
keeping up with current events and technologies in the mortal world; if you 
don’t, you can be sure your enemy will. As the Seelie traditionally either 
overlook or patronize mortals, understanding them and how to use them can 
often give you no end of disgruntled spies and informants within a Seelie court. 
What’s more, as you are part human, it is only logical to understand mortals as 
best you can; if this leads to hatred or contempt for them, fine, but first at least 
see things from their perspective. Finally, shelter the Thallain and other recent 
arrivals from the Dreaming, at least until they understand what they have come 
to destroy, and keep them safe from mortals and non-court Kithain alike. 
T h e  Seconb Tenet 
Understand the supernatural world, and make and break alliances as necessary. 
We are not alone in the night -other 
things stalk the darkness, but while 
the Seelie fear and revile them, we understand they have their own place in 
things and make pacts with them. Few manipulators are better suited to subtle 
power plays than a vampire, few advisors are wiser than a wizard, few spies are 
more undetectable than a ghost, few warriors are more fearsome than a 
werewolf pack on the rampage. With the right words and understanding they 
can all be yours for the using. Beware their unique wants and hungers, not to 
mention the Banality that hangs about them, and you can have a number of 
allies and informants that the Seelie will never expect. Best of all, we are hard 


away if things become too dangerous. 
T h e  ‘Chirb Tenet 
Harvest Glamour and prepare for the approaching of Endless Winter. 
This is simple. Endless Winter means that Glamour will become scarce, 
and thus any means of acquiring and hoarding it is not only expected but 
demanded. Those within the court differ in their views on Ravaging, as some 
believe it a renewable resource even in the light of Endless Winter, while others 
disagree and claim it wastes fast-disappearing Dreamers, but none argue that 
the overall goal of gaining as much Glamour as possible is a bad thing. 
T h e  Fourth Tenet 
Overthrow the Seelie Court and the nobility. 
Though this goes without saying to most recruits, the overthrow of the 
Seelie is a sacred quest as well as a practical goal for the Shadow Court - 
after 
usurping and slandering the court’s rightful position for over 600 years, the eve 
of Endless Winter makes this the perfect time for vengeance. With the Seelie 
out of the way and the quarrelsome noble system cast aside, true change can 
emerge. Even the sidhe of the Shadow Court believe this dismantling of the 
nobility is necessary, though most of them see themselves at the head of the new 
order to come. 
T h e  Fifth Tenet 
Fuljill the ritual obligations of the year, culminating in the rituals of Samhain. 
This tenet is perhaps what separates the true Shadow Court fae from their 
pretender cousins - 
the essence of the court remains with the rituals it was 
founded to protect and preserve. Perversely enough, the Unseelie of the 
Shadow Court make up the largest number of fae who still observe the original 
traditions of the many faerie holidays, especially on Samhain. By honoring the 
rituals, the Shadow Court renews its ties to the other worlds as well as to each 
other and tracks the esteem particular court members might have. 
T h e  Sixth ‘Cenet 
Spread chaos, revolution and anarchy. 
Though often synonymous with the Fourth Tenet, the two are not 
identical - 
the mortal world needs to be awakened to the truth of things as 
well, and nothing grabs a person’s attention better than fear. Chaos and 
anarchy keep the enemies of the court off-balance and obscure the more 
delicate maneuverings going on behind the scenes. Leave every location 
changed for your passing, and let no complacent soul - 
mortal or fae - 
rest 
easily in delusions of comfort and safety. 


There is no tenet number seven. All hail Discordia! 
We are the Unseelie, harbingers of change, breakers of tradition, fomenters 
of revolution and the nightmares that refuse to be tamed by this world or any 
other. Never forget this! If you feel yourself settling into the same routine - 
whether it’s as a mortal holding down a job or a faerie spreading anarchy - 
do 
yourself a favor and take a wild night (or week, or year) to change it all. We 
expect nothing less. 
The Shabow Lscheat 
Hear the worcLs of M y  Grear, Shadow Court warrior and sidhe of House 
Scathach, as she speaks on the subject of the Seelie code of honor. 
Though it bums us badly to do so, we often must pay at least nominal 
homage to the Seelie code known as the Escheat. I must admit, the wiser ones 
among us recognize some pretty common sense stuff in some of it, even if it has 
acquired too many cutesy Seelie flourishes over time. Here’s how the court sees 
it. 
The Right of Demesne 
Straight up crap. There’s no power or nobility higher than whoever holds 
the blade to your back at any particular moment. Those who’re strong enough 
and smart enough to take land and hold it -noble or not -deserve it. Anyone 
else is window dressing. 
The Right to Dream 
Let me make this very simple - 
mortals dream. We live on dreams. Did 
you have a personal relationship with the tree that grew the apple you’re eating? 
We know better than to cut the whole orchard down, but that doesn’t mean we 
get friendly with the produce, or mind pruning it when it gets out of line. 
The Right of Ignorance 
Mortals are ignorant, oblivious and predictable, and most Prodigals are so 
full of themselves they don’t even realize we exist. So who cares if we flash our 
power when we have to? 
The Right of Rescue 
Get this one down - 
Shadow Court always help other Shadow Court, so 
long as it doesn’t blow your cover to do it. Sometimes we’ll help other fae too, 
especially since they owe us big time for the favor. Sometimes, though, it’s 
better to just let those institutionalized Seelie nobles slide. Boo hoo, too bad for 
them. 
The Right of Safe Haven 
It’s hard enough to hang on to things in this world as it is, without the added 
pressure of moochers and whiners knocking on your door, demanding something 
they couldn’t earn on their own. Sure, take ‘em in if you want, but first make 
sure they can pay the price for your hospitality. 


This isn’t Sunday school - 
sometimes you have to break things, people 
included, to get what you want. Too much death and you’ll be lost to Banality, 
so be careful you don’t get addicted to it. We’re not above getting rid of those 
who refuse their part in the Pageant, but nothing attracts attention to us like 
murder, and if you expose us because you’re careless, guess who’s next? 
S habo w Court Iy d /fairs 
Blackberry lack, pooku Modernist and adventurer, expounds on daily life as a 
member of the Shadow Court. 
Political I m p ul s e s 
Although many Seelie believe that we’re all the same, that all we want is 
to murder the Seelie nobles and vandalize the local freeholds, it’s simply not so. 
There are as many different reasons for joining the court as there are members 
(if not more). What’s more, once you’ve signed up, you eventually find yourself 
drifting toward others who share your outlook on what the court is doing and 
where you think it should be headed. Now, don’t get me wrong, it’s not 
generally something that’s put on a banner - 
walk into one of our meetings and 
ask “So, who’s a Repudiator here?” and I guarantee that you’ll get nothing but 
puzzled looks - 
but there are definitely different groups with different visions, 
and you should know about the bigger ones, just in case you do happen to find 
someone who takes them seriously. 
Purist 
A lot of folks call these guys Traditionalists, but that’s not really doing 
them justice-after 
all, if it really was tradition, they wouldn’t have to organize 
to try to bring it about, would they? See, all these Shadow Court types want is 
to return to the old system of Seeliewnseelie transition, since they figure it’s 
kissing off that little tradition that led to the whole mess in the first place. This 
means they’re a little softer toward the Seelie than most of us; not too much, 
or they wouldn’t be here, but a little bit, not that they don’t catch hell for it from 
the rest of us. They’re not too happy about the idea of Endless Winter, but 
they’re getting ready for it anyway, and to this end they’ve got some of the 
deepest influence in the mortal world (not to mention biggest stocks of stashed 
Glamour) of all the Shadow Court. They tend to come down hard on Ravagers, 
because they see it as wasting a diminished resource. You should see the looks 
on some of the new kids’ faces when they think being Shadow Court means they 
can just suck the Glamour out of anyone they feel like, and then a Purist whacks 
them upside the head for it! Purists are mostly Unseelie sidhe, but it doesn’t take 
pointy ears and a flawless face to think that restoring the old transition is the 
way to go; lots of commoners think this sounds pretty swell too. 


Go one step farther down the same road as the Purists, and you find the 
Repudiators. These guys have no tolerance for the Seelie whatsoever and think 
that the only hope for the fae is to let the Unseelie take the wheel for, oh, say, 
about 600 years or so, just like the Seelie did. Like the Purists, they’re hoarding 
all the power they can get -mortal, magical or otherwise- because they think 
it’s the only way to survive the coming darkness. Unlike the Purists, though, the 
Repudiators actively work to bring on Endless Winter, thinking it’ll provide the 
tests necessary to weed out the weak from the strong, the fit from the unfit, etc. 
They don’t like Ravaging, but don’t much care either; so long as you aren’t too 
blatant or don’t dry out their favorite resource, you should be cool with them. 
A few of them think Winter is here already and are totally paranoid about 
giving up anything to outsiders, even other Shadow Court who don’t asknicely, 
so watch your step. 
Oh, and while it’s not something they put on their business cards, this is 
pretty much a sidhe-only party, unless you don’t mind being their errand boy 
(or you just have a big brass set of your own). They generally restrict the upper- 
level stuff to the Elves Anonymous crowd, figuring they’re the only ones smart 
enough for that kind of political stuff. I say let ‘em have it, if that’s what they 
want. 
Anarchist 
Our most visible face, and always the most fun to hang out with at parties, 
these talented boys and girls are responsible for most of the nasty stuff associated 
with the Shadow Court: mischief, mayhem and misinformation, with the 
occasional murder or maiming thrown in. Yep, they’d be a regular faerie Fight 
Club, if only you could get them to sit still long enough to read them a set of 
rules. As it is, though, this is pretty much the grab bag of the Shadow Court as 
far as motivations go, and they generally agree on only one thing: the world as 
it stands in the present has got to go, right now! 
Actually, that’s not quite true - 
if you really put your mind to it, you can 
generally break them into two groups, the Rebuilders and the Destructionists. 
Rebuilders want to tear down the Seelie power structure and replace it with 
something better (though I’ve noticed most have no idea what that is), while 
the Destructionists are the worst nightmares of the Seelie fae - 
they simply 
destroy for love of destruction itself. Most of them are pretty amateur, but the 
ones that get organized get scary. As a whole, Anarchists don’t give a damn 
about Endless Winter - 
one group’s too concerned with the problems of here 
and now, the other’s too busy saying heh heh heh as they put dynamite under the 
duke’s car - 
and tend to take Glamour however they can get it, Ravaging or 
otherwise. As you might expect, there are a lot of commoners in the Anarchist 
movement, though the occasional disgruntled sidhe shows up as well. 


All the way at the spooky end of the spectrum you’ll come across the 
Ritualists, likely while they’re communing with a spirit of the dead, taking tea 
with avampire or something else that’ll turn your fur white. Don’t get me wrong 
- 
a lot of Shadow Court, this pooka included, feel a deep connection to the 
rituals that these fae endorse, and take part in the Pageantry of the Ritualists 
with no little reverence. It’s just that beyond the ritual calendar and the 
spiritual guidance they offer, you always get the impression that they’re learning 
some Very Bad Things, you know what I mean? I guess if it hasn’t done them 
too much harm by now, it never will, but it still unnerves me. Believe me, I’ve 
seen some pretty creepy things in this life so far. As for politics, well, the 
Ritualists play with the best of them, but they ultimately think politics should 
take a backseat to the spirituality of the court, although they’re not above using 
rituals to further what politics they do play if necessary. Anybody can be part 
of the Ritualists at the same time as they take part in any other group, except 
maybe the Anarchists, though there are certainly those who spend their time 
exclusively with the Ritualists. 
When it comes to Endless Winter, the Ritualists were the first to predict 
it, and thus have guided the Shadow Court regarding it from the beginning - 
to them, it’s part of the cycle, a time of purging before a new Spring (though 
whether the fae or the world will be around for this Spring depends on the 
opinion of the Ritualist in question), and the Shadow Court is destined to play 
a large part of it, so they take pride in their rituals and do what they can to learn 
of Winter as it approaches. They also handle most of the court’s supernatural 
alliances, and endorse all methods of gathering Glamour, so long as the proper 
rituals are observed. I know a lot of commoners who take part in the Ritualist 
ceremonies, but once again the sidhe are the foundation of the group, despite 
having skipped town on the rest of us for a few centuries’ worth of rituals; quick 
learners, I guess. 
Wobernist 
Noble, common - 
who cares? Bullets don’t. Computers don’t. And that’s 
the world we live in now, like it or not, so why not try to match up to it instead 
of hiding from it? These Shadow Court fae are the ones most in tune with the 
times, and in a heartbeat they can go from hardcases who advocate revolution 
and Seelie assassination to negotiators willing to work with the Seelie to make 
changes, making them some of the most adaptable court members out there - 
and I’mnot just saying this because I’m one of them. We don’t even mind being 
mistaken for the Seelie group of the same name, because a lot of our goals are 
the same - 
we both agree that a 14th-century system of government just isn’t 
going to cut it anymore, not even with a bunch ofwhiz kids like the sidhe at the 
helm, and that it’s time to come up with something better if we’re going to 
survive in the modem world. The maindifference is that the Seelie Modernists 
are pretty complacent about these changes and just sit around talking about 


,
-
 
and working out the problems as they come along. I mean, there’s no way to 
predict or prevent every possible complication, so if you’re gonna take a chance, 
just take it and see where the chips land afterward. We believe in Endless 
Winter, sure, but more as a reminder to the fae to get their act together and get 
with the times than some big metaphysical Armageddon mumbo-jumbo. If we 
play our cards right and adapt, we may even sail through it with little or no 
damage! 
Oh, and keep your hands to yourselves with the mortals - 
Ravaging to 
save your neck is one thing, but make a habit of it and we’ll slap you back in line. 
Understanding them is our best route to adapting to the world, and that means 
no treating them like snack food. 


Though it would positively astound the Seelie, there is some 
rhyme and reason to the way the Shadow Court acts, though it may 
not seem so on the surface. Hey, if you’ve already got political 
impulses and groups, it’s only logical that eventually some of them 
will start hanging out often enough that they start printing up their 
own logos, you know? So the Shadow Court’s n o  different than most 
groups in that respect, except that since most of us already lead 
double lives among the Seelie, it can quickly become wheels within 
wheels within wheels within ... you get the idea. Just be careful you 
don’t get so dizzy that you fall down and lose track of who you are, 
or worse yet, who your enemies are, because believe me, you’ll 
acquire some before long, whether you know it or not. To paraphrase 
a great man, even if you choose not to decide between these groups, 
you’ve still made a choice. 
In order to ensure that no one group can take down the entire 
system if they decide to turn Seelie evidence on the rest of us, the 
court is generally composed like a resistance movement (or terrorist 
movement, depending on your point of view): small cells operating 
in conjunction with maybe one or two others, but never seeing any 
other cells unless absolutely necessary. The fewer court members 
one of our kind can betray if captured, the happier we all are. 
Leadership and direction comes mostly through secret messages and 
wandering Masterminds and Instigators, who generally stick around 
just long enough to give you a new assignment or two before moving 
on. A few of them are permanently rooted in one place or another, 
but those are rare, and they typically operate only in places where 
the court was already taking over. How will you know when these 
figures show up? Trust me, you’ll know. It just happens that way - 
like night falling over the world, they always reach you eventually, 
even if you’ve never seen another bunch of Shadow Court outside 
of your little gang. How do we know they’re on the up and up? I 
admire your suspicious nature, but you’ll see when you’re in the 
court longer, these things are just natural. We can smell it when it’s 
one of our own, and when it’s just an Unseelie poseur or some kind 
of Seelie trap. How do you think we’ve survived this long? 


Another common fib is that there’s no such thing as a wrong act for the 
depraved minions of the Shadow Court. Well, I can’t say that we aren’t a very 
liberal bunch when it comes to what we consider “right” and “wrong,”but there 
are some definite lines even we can cross, and the concept of a fair trial has 
proven difficult to teach to ogres - 
so those accused had better make a 
convincing case (and fast) if they wish to avoid punishment. What are the 
punishments? Well, depends, but banishment, magical amnesia, periods of 
humiliating servitude and the like are all popular, as is the occasional savage 
beating, scarring or maiming. Just pray you never need to find out. 
As crimes go, betraying secrets, members or any other aspect of the court 
to outsiders is supreme mistake number one -do a terminally stupid thing like 
this, and I guarantee you’ll wish you’d never even heard of the term “Unseelie.” 
If it’s something really minor that you did by mistake, you can expect to come 
through with most of your limbs.. . anything larger or more deliberate is up for 
grabs, and you can always bet that part of your punishment is doing away with 
whoever you spilled your guts to, no matter how young or innocent they might 
be. Sorry, but them’s the breaks in this game -we 
can’t afford to let anything 
slip. We’ve come too far to let one pair of loose lips ruin it now. 
Actively fighting or working against other cliques is another mistake, 
although in reality the rest of the court tends to turn a blind eye to those kinds 
of battles unless they start draining too much time and energy from the real 
goals of the court, in which case all concerned can expect to spend the next few 
months sent to their banal rooms without a Glamour supper, if you know what 
I mean. Failing to honor the yearly rites, even if only in your own Anarchist 
fashion, is also grounds for some punishment - 
they’re what keeps the court 
tight with each other and reminds us what we’re really fighting for. If you can’t 
be bothered to take some time out for a thing like that, then to hell with you! 
Oh, and of course the last big mistake -failing 
an assignment, or even worse, 
refusing one altogether. What happens to you then depends on how important 
the task was and how badly you failed, but it’s generally nasty and will send your 
status in the court straight down the drain. And if you ever refuse an 
assignment, you’d better have adamn good reason with IMPORTANTwritten 
all over it in foot-high flaming letters, or you don’t want to know what the 
Instigators will come up with to make an example out of you. One reason the 
court works is that we trust each other. Start messing that up and you give 
everyone problems, and nobody’s so vital to us that we’ll let that slide. Got it? 
Wibnight Court 
Most of the time court justice is served locally, by the Masterminds or 
Instigators closest to those involved, but in the case of truly heinous or 
widespread crimes, a special proceeding is called for: the dreaded Midnight 
Court. Named for its customary meeting time, this infamous body convenes 
where needed, using a combination of potent magic and physical force to ensure 


elaborate than the rough “trials” that determine most Shadow Court justice, 
making a sincere effort to review evidence and consult witnesses, and thus it is 
a little more fair, but the accused has no rights except those granted by the court, 
and the court has no problem handing out sentences of death or even death by 
cold iron if it deems such measures appropriate. After all, it only appears to 
handle the most grievous crimes and feels justified in the verdicts it reaches. 
Those found not guilty are freed from all suspicion, and most wake up in the 
morning with their memories fogged and the feeling of having narrowly 
avoided some terrible tragedy. 
No one knows who is part of the Midnight Court or how they are chosen, 
nor how the Midnight Court always seems to appear when needed. For all the 
whispers of dark magics and darker pacts surrounding it, little is known even 
within the Shadow Court, and so it is greatly feared by even the vilest redcaps. 
The Midnight Court will also occasionally convene to pass judgment on an 
outsider, especially a troublesome Seelie or Prodigal foe, and uses all the power 
of Glamour to enforce its verdicts in those instances. It is said that those who 
throw themselves on the mercy of the Midnight Court can occasionally avoid 
sentence by serving it instead, but the truth of this remains unknown. The idea 
that anyone in the court might secretly be part of this mysterious body also does 
wonders to ensure loyalty, if only through paranoia, since one never knows if 
an agent of the Midnight Court might be listening in.. . . 
Organization 
Actual organization of our kind comes in two basic flavors: cliques and 
secret societies. They’re not mutually exclusive - 
a clique can be part of a 
secret society, and most secret societies started as cliques- but be careful about 
getting too mixed up in either, or you’ll start missing meetings or finding 
yourself at cross-purposes with groups you’re loyal to, and that gets ugly fast. 
Cliques 
Cliques are our equivalent to motleys or households, the fae you hang out 
with, travel with, and generally stick by through thick and thin. You’ll get 
assignments from the court together, and hopefully get to share the glory with 
them too. They’re the best friends most of us will ever get, especially with our 
risky lives, so be good to them, especially since most cliques change every 
Samhain, so the nicer (or at least more loyal) you are, the better the chance that 
if you need to call for help outside your clique, it’ll be an ally who answers. 
Friendly word of advice - 
if you find yourself running with a clique, and 
most of us do sooner or later - 
do everyone a favor and make sure you know 
what you’re looking to accomplish. Otherwise, you might wind up with a group 
where one-third wants to do politics and be all secret-secret with the Seelie, 


bunch just wants to strap the duke to a chair and see if they can gnaw his ears 
off. While certainly fun, such groups tend not to last very long, and have a nasty 
habit of shooting each other in the foot. 
One more thing - 
not everyone in a clique has to be full-fledged Shadow 
Court. Possible recruits aside, sometimes it’s fun or useful to have a wannabe 
around, maybe even one who thinks they’re full Shadow Court, in order to 
distract the local nobles or take a fall for you later on. Of course, if you can get 
some poor Seelie saps to run with you, that can also occasionally be fun too, not 
to mention a great alibi for some of your worse misdeeds. Just make sure that 
nobody outside the court knows anything about what it is or what it’s asking you 
to do, and anything else you choose to do is fine. 
Graybeard Cliques - 
A lot of Kithain disregard grumps as too over-the- 
hill to do much of anything, but we know better. Those wily Unseelie who are 
strong and clever enough to stick around this long have more than earned our 
respect, and putting them together allows them to do all sorts of political chess 
games, power plays and other things wilders seldom have the patience or 
planning to do. Even better, most Seelie never suspect graybeards of being up 
to anything; so long as they’re subtle, they can get away with a lot. 
Because of the balancing act required to maintain a mortal and faerie life 
at this age, most graybeard cliques excel at the First Tenet of the Shadow Court 
and are employed in just this capacity by the court’s agents. 
Ravaging Cliques -Typically at least semi-nomadic, these cliques avoid 
politics as a matter of course, preferring instead to wage anonymous guerrilla 
war on the enemies of the Shadow Court and find new ways to secure Glamour 
supplies for the coming Endless Winter. Highly versatile by nature, all manner 
of kiths and seemings can be found in these cliques, depending on the needs of 
the mission at hand. They are also the most likely to encounter Prodigals on 
behalf of the court, either as ambassadors or (most rarely) assassins, and as such 
have a wider perspective on the world than even their fellow Shadow Court 
brethren. 
Ravaging cliques are the ones most likely to mind the Second and Third 
Tenets of the Shadow Court, and take justifiable pride in their accomplishments. 
Pretender Cliques - 
It takes stones to run around throwing rocks and 
paint on the big white walls of Seelie society, but it also takes stones to put on 
your sheep’s clothing and see how far into their good graces you can get, all the 
while reporting back and spreading a little Shadow Court chaos, of course. 
These cliques do their best to undermine and ultimately take over a freehold, 
though whether they do it by stirring up commoner unrest, starting scandals or 
by actually pretending to be Seelie courtiers of some kind depends on the clique 
in question. 
Pretender cliques are naturals at the Fourth Tenet of the Shadow Court, 
and most can tell you a number of heartwarming stories about the right ways to 


believe in the inherent superiority or necessity of Unseelie rule, and offer 
followers great power and rewards in return for helping to depose the local ruler 
in favor of the head of the clique. This typically works best in areas that already 
have a high level of dissatisfaction with the current power structure, but with 
the right planning and propaganda this approach can be implemented almost 
anywhere. However, they can run into trouble with other Shadow Court 
cliques who disagree with the notion of replacing one ruler with another, and 
in the past have been known to fight fiercely with pretender cliques over the 
proper way of overthrowing Seelie rule. 
Obeisance cliques like to style themselves as following the Fourth Tenet 
of the Shadow Court to perfection, no matter what their comrades may say 
about it. 
Ritualist Cliques - 
By far the most rare, Ritualist cliques seek to probe 
the spiritual and magical depths of the shadows and place great importance on 
learning new Arts, ensuring the sanctity of the Shadow Court rituals and 
making alliances with Prodigals to further their forbidden knowledge. They can 
also be found offering guidance to other cliques, and most areas with a higher 
court presence have one of these cliques on retainer to perform ceremonies and 
lead rituals for the area. Their membership is typically diverse but among the 
most devoted to the court, andclose-knit due to their constant ritual observances 
and the like. 
Ritualist cliques uphold the Second Tenet of the Shadow Court, while at 
the same time furthering the FifthTenet, leading the yearly revelry as Samhain 
comes around. 
Jamming Cliques - 
These cliques exist solely to make the lives of any and 
all Seelie around them hell. They first spy on their foes, learning their 
weaknesses, and then set about to create as much havoc as they can before 
they’re forced to move on (one way or another). By running interference and 
trying to counter the moves of the Seelie, they draw fire away from the other 
cliques, not to mention furthering the goals of the court. They also inject some 
much-needed chaos into the complacent Seelie mainstream, and most have no 
problem extending their troublemaking to mortal society as well, becoming 
infamous revolutionary figures in the process. 
Rebellion and anarchy are part of the Sixth Tenet of the Shadow Court, 
and jamming cliques are at home creating them. 
Chaos Cliques -While sometimes confused with jamming cliques, these 
cliques represent a more primal force than the often cleverly planned and 
executed actions of their Jammer colleagues. Chaos cliques find even anarchy 
too political a concept and simply exist to raise as much hell as possible. 
Whether they do so by wine and revelry, tricks and pranks, or fists and knives 
depends on the clique in question, but regardless the results are the same - 
areas where the local Seelie held sway are never the same again. 


Court, but whether they’re aware of it is a matter of some debate. 
Operational Cliques -Only a rumor at present, talk persists of small cells 
of highly trained warriors and assassins forming across Concordia, sometimes 
with members of other cliques, sometimes entirely on their own. These cliques 
are supposedly extremely close-knit and fanatical in their devotion to the ideals 
of the court, and, if there’s truth to the tales, have already made strikes against 
several powerful Seelie nobles, in efforts to fan the flames of civil war. These 
“ops” cliques would be upholding any number of court goals, but for the time 
being remain little more than a myth, even to their shadow siblings, and so the 
majority of the Shadow Court simply waits to see if there’s truth to the tales. 
Secret Societies 
Secret societies are just that, groups of Shadow Court fae who have some 
extra goal or secret purpose and usually enforce all sorts of secret initiations, 
symbols, oaths and code phrases to ensure that you don’t spill your guts about 
what they’re up to. Some are more secret than others - 
even some Seelie have 
heard of the Knights of the Cold Watch, for example, while only the cleverest 
pooka like me have any idea the Glowing Eye exists, but regardless of how well 
known they are, only those members sworn into the society ever get to find out 
what’s really going on. Whatever you do, don’t get caught spying on them - 
the rumors about what even the nicest of these groups do to those they catch 
snitching will keep you up for weeks. 
Shadow Court members can also be found in the Ranters, the Cat’s Cradle 
and the Monkey’s Paw, all of which are described in the section on secret 
societies on page 222. 
Knights of the Cola Watch 
These creepy guys are absolutely convinced that some even nastier things 
than the Thallain returned with the sidhe during the Resurgence, and despite 
the fact that they never seem to be able to turn up any solid proof of it, they 
continue searching high and low for evidence of these “abominations.” I must 
admit, though, that they might be on to something, if for no other reason than 
from time to time some of their bodies have turned up with some very weird- 
looking bite marks. There are regular Unseelie among the Watchers, even some 
Seelie who share their memory of the monsters they’re on the lookout for. 
While the court isn’t too keen on the Seelie involvement, as long as our 
Watchers keep their fellows away from the Thallain and don’t betray court 
secrets, the group actually has its uses as chimera-hunters and the like. I’ve even 
heard that there a few Anarchists among them who are planning to join up with 
the critters, assuming they find some, and really go nuts, but that’s a big 
assumption there. They’re pretty widely known among both Seelie and Unseelie 
Courts, although most people think they’re a bunch of doomsayers jumping at 
shadows. Most are sidhe, although a number of commoners have joined them 


Dress: Most Watchers make little secret of their allegiance, unless it would 
make them the object of ridicule. When the situation demands discretion, 
Watchers wear ascarfor sash of either white or ice blue when they wish to show 
their membership. 
T h e  Glowing &ye 
OK, 1’11 tell you what I’ve heard about the Eye, but you didn’t hear it from 
me. Because if they find out and come after me, I’ll make sure to pay you a visit 
before they catch me, and you don’t want that. The reason I’m a little jumpy 
is that the Eye is a bunch of sidhe who style themselves the real powers behind 
it all, the puppeteers pulling the strings of folks like you and me even as we have 
the poseur court at Samhain acting as afront for the rest of us real Shadow Court 
types. Supposedly it’s headed up by a threesome of the nastiest sidhe of House 
Balor, and they’ve decided they’re the only ones who are fit enough to rule 
during the coming Endless Winter, weed the weak from the strong, you get the 
idea. If my sources are telling me straight, they’ve got a bunch of freaky Prodigals 
lined up to support them, from angry ghosts to twisted werewolves to shadow- 
worshipping vampires and even weirder things. Worst of all, word has it they 
have spies everywhere, and their agents are so good at masquerading as loyal 
Seelie types (or at least less sinister Unseelie) that they’ve managed to put some 
in very high places across Concordia, where they’re just a word away from 
revolution, as soon as the Eye decides to speak it. Oh, and unless you enjoy being 
a flunky, don’t bother joining up without nice sidhe features, preferably of Balor 
ancestry. 
Symbol: A baleful red eye, set in a black pyramid. 
Dress: Though they prefer both their symbol and their dress to remain 
hidden, on ceremonial occasions they wear necklaces with the society’s symbol, 
and favor black and red clothing. 
8ilgrims of the aright q o a b  
I’m sure somebody’s mentioned by now that we’re all tied up in the 
Samhain rites of the dead and all that cheerful stuff. Well, if you thought the 
Ritualists were pretty strict with their stuff, you’ve never seen a Pilgrim at work. 
Chances are you never will, either; they keep their stuff top secret even from 
the other Ritualists around them and have no problem offing anyone they find 
spying, since they consider death their personal playground. From what I know, 
they’re working on a way to establish lasting means of communicating with the 
dead, fae or otherwise, because they believe this will teach them the secrets they 
need to survive the coming Endless Winter. Some have even reinstated the 
teign (pronounced “ten”), or traditional sacrifice to the Underworld. Long ago, 
the teign was believed necessary to ensure the immortality of the fae; though 
versions of it vary, it involves at least one fae every seven years accepting 
Dermanent death as a means of ensuring the reincarnation of others, though 


you don’t mind playing with death in all its forms. Needless to say, few sidhe 
hang out with these guys, though the sluagh love them. 
Symbol: Black cemetery gates, slightly ajar. 
Dress: Pilgrims often disguise their allegiance among all of their other 
ritual garb and materials, working an ornate black key into their outfits. The 
most fanatical of them inscribe their symbol on the soles of their shoes. 
Chilbren’s Crusabe 
Not much to say about these darling brats, save that they’re either the best 
thing that every happened to the court, or its worst nightmare, depending on 
who you ask. Most of ‘em are redcaps, though that’s a fact, not a requirement 
-all it takes is a childling or young wilder who doesn’t mind killing Seelie fae, 
especially Seelie nobles. You’d be surprised how easily this comes to most kids, 
more so when the killing they do is largely chimerical- they think the guy they 
whack is just going to pop back up in a little bit, like a cartoon character, and 
that makes it OK to do what they do. Hey, don’t get me wrong, I have just as 
much of a dislike of the nobility as the next Modernist, but these kids are pretty 
damn eerie regardless, and you gotta know that eventually most of them 
probably wouldn’t mind graduating to killing their targets “for real,” and that’s 
just dangerous for all concerned. Worse still, even when they’re caught 
nobody’ll punish them, because they’re “only childlings.” 
Symbol: A baby’s rattle with a knife point on one end, dripping with blood. 
Dress: Crusaders don’t tend to a particular dress affectation. Instead, every 
year (sometimes more often) they pick a particular cartoon, movie or other pop 
culture item and wear clothing with those characters on them, verifying their 
true identities with a secret handshake or code phrase. 
Revelry una Holibay 
One thing that most folks outside the court don’t understand is our love 
of ceremony. They see us as raging egomaniacs or slavering antimonarchists, 
and forget that our roots go all the way down to the ancient rites of Samhain. 
As any Ritualist can tell you, the Shadow Court may have so much on its hands 
in the temporal realm that sometimes it’s hard to remember its true purpose, but 
it’s the beating black heart of the matter. I think that’s what bums us the most, 
when it all comes down to it - 
that for all the Seelie talk about upholding 
tradition, they’ve ignored the old ways that they didn’t like, and they’ve been 
doing it ever since they took over. Which means that we, the Shadow Court 
-the greatest force for change in Kithain society whether anyone likes it or 
wants it or not, we’re the ones who have preserved what it really means to be 
fae. Against the law and under the nose of “upstanding” fae society, no less. 
I won’t go through the whole calendar with you - 
it’d take too long, for 
one thing, and besides, what kind of fun would the parties be if you knew all the 
themes in advance, right? (I have just one word of advice, though: Be real nice 


heh heh heh.) Suffice it to say that while the Seelie have long sponsored a 
holiday calendar, carefully sanitized and clarified to their particular standards, 
the Shadow Court still remembers all the celebrations in their original forms. 
We do our best to hit as many of them among our own kind as we can. For one 
thing, it gives us a chance to cut loose in ways we normally can’t, not even 
around our fellow Unseelie, especially those of us who’re working on double 
lives; for another, it helps us all keep in touch, bring us all back together and 
remind us why we do the things we do. How does it do that? It’s hard to explain, 
but trust me, your first court festival, you’ll just feel it, deep in your bones, and 
you’ll know that this is what we’re supposed to be all about. Not saying all the 
rites are pretty - 
hey, if most people really remembered what that Maypole 
stands for, they wouldn’t let their little kiddies dance around it - 
but we respect 
that too; after all, fae are equal parts dream and nightmare, right? So why not 
act like it? 
For a complete list of Kithain holidays, see page 228. 
Samhain 
Anyway, as you’ve no doubt guessed, Samhain is our big event of the year, 
and if you skip every other holiday (not that I recommend it, but hey, if you 
do...), don’t miss Sumhain. No excuse for it. There’s always a court gathering, 
and it decides a lot ofwhat’s going on the next year, including the new positions 
everyone holds in the court. Failure to appear is as good as saying “I don’t care, 
make me the redcaps’ latrine cleaner for next year.” Besides, this is our night, 
and you can just feel the raw energy of it rising under your skin for days in 
advance. It’s an experience you simply don’t have being Seelie, and even most 
Unseelie are pretty dead to it. 
Samhain actually begins the night before, on what’s traditionally known 
as Hell’s Night (or Devil’sNight or MischiefNight, depending on where you’re 
from). Sheer madness and vandalism is the best way to put it, and the local 
cliques often put on a contest to see who can come up with the most creative 
acts of destruction. It’s also an excuse to Ravage up as much Glamour as possible 
for the festivities to follow, so don’t be shy - 
even the mortals expect things 
to get crazy that night, so why disappoint them? 
Once Samhain night finally starts up, it usually begins with a masquerade 
party, followed by a huge feast. Great costumes are de rigueur, whether magical 
or otherwise, and needless to say they’re also an excuse for starting all kinds of 
trouble. Many nobles disguise themselves as commoners on this night, and if 
you pierce their disguise they’re supposed togrant you a boon, though what that 
boon may be depends on the noble in question. Even the feast isn’t always what 
it seems - 
there’s an equally ancient tradition called the Satyr’s Feast, for 
example, and I’ll just let you imagine what that must entail. Whatever it takes 
to get everyone, including the most Seelie of boggans and trolls, to start cutting 
loose, that’s what kicks off Samhain. 


start getting really serious. Any Seelie in the area have to try seriously hard to 
hang on to their little Seelie selves, and most don’t bother, which means it’s 
time for some good ol’ fashioned sensual abandon! You’d be surprised what 
those guys are capable of after repressing their natural instincts for so long. Let 
me just say that some of them give us a run for our money. A mock court is 
elected, typically of the most obnoxious commoners in the land, and their word 
is law for the night, though they’re usually too inebriated from one source of 
pleasure or another to do much with their “sacred trust,” which is just fine with 
us. Cliques do their own special ceremonies to let go of the old year, bid farewell 
to lost friends and await the coming of a new year, and if anyone’s caught spying 
on private stuff like that, well, I hope they’ve commended themselves to their 
deity of choice, because we’ll be more than happy to facilitate the introduction. 
Finally, Shadow Court andnon-Shadow Court alike gather around bonfires (or 
the closest thing suburbia can manage to one), confess their sins of the past year 
and make resolutions for the year to follow - 
typically ones of atonement, but 
not always. Most Seelie indulge in this rite because they figure the Samhain 
Mists will protect their little secrets from coming to light the next day, and 
they’re generally right.. . generally. 
Around the time everyone else is going home, the court finishes its most 
sacred rites: the Instigators gather to name new members of the court, current 
members watch their Prestige rise or fall as the deeds of the past year are 
discussed, new cliques and assignments are handed out, and the veil between 
life and death is parted to learn any final secrets that the worlds beyond have 
to offer. It should go without saying that we’ve cast off all poseurs and hangers- 
on at this point, and any who spy on this part of the ceremony are tucked into 
a shallow dirt bed for anap. Some particular highlights of the rituals at this time 
are the sluagh Ritual of the Dead, where they trade tales and make deals with 
their friendly local stiffs for the coming year; the Ritual of the Eidolon, a big hit 
with the sidhe, where the spirits of lost fae are contacted through mysterious 
black birdlike chimera, who wing messages back and forth between worlds until 
dawn; and finally the Ritual of Doom Impending, which despite its sinister 
name is really just the formal term for the attempts ritemasters make at this time 
to receive prophecies, from the realms of dream and spirit alike. Different kiths 
do these prophecy rituals differently - 
a troll’s runecasting is very different 
from an eshu’s dervish dance or a satyr’s, umm, ecstatic rites - 
but the result is 
hopefully the same, a new vision for the approaching new year. Altogether, 
these final rituals serve to bind the court together, help us put aside differences 
and otherwise renew our resolve to stand by each other as well as uphold the 
goals of the court. 
As soon as dawn arrives, so do the Samhain Mists, concealing everything 
that happened the night before, even for most of us, although we remember our 
new cliques and assignments, and high-ranking court members hardly seem 


remember the events following the Descent in hazy, often allegorical images, 
but most don’t even try, preferring to believe that everyone else’s minds are as 
clouded as their own and letting the darkness lie. That suits everyone just fine, 
as far as we’re concerned, and so it goes until another year passes and another 
Samhain looms on the horizon.. . . 
System: Samhain is a highly magical and mysterious time of year, and even 
those who have never heard of the Shadow Court still feel the dark Glamour 
of the night calling to them. All Seelie fae must win a Willpower Test against 
seven Traits (yes, Samhain will attempt to overbid if possible) every hour that 
they wish to retain their Seelie Legacy, and even those that do are still subject 
to the Samhain Mists. Most Seelie give in to their dark side on this one night, 
and indulge in forbidden trysts, childish pranks, political ranting and other 
activities normally prohibited by their court, reasoning that no one will 
remember much the next morning. Furthermore, all efforts to Ravage, adopt a 
disguise of any kind (magical or otherwise), receive a prophecy or contact the 
spirits of the dead receive a free retest on Samhain, due to dark and enigmatic 
energies running amok that night. 
For those not protected by the appropriate rituals (which is essentially 
everyone except Shadow Court Instigators and a few master Ritualists), the 
Samhain Mists erase the memories of the night of debauchery. Recalling 
anything following the Descent with any useful clarity requires a Mental 
Challenge against 10 Traits (retest with Gremayre), and even then most 
recollections are shrouded in cryptic imagery. At the Storyteller’s option, 
particularly significant events may be recalled more easily or even automatically 
- since it can be frustrating in the extreme to introduce a major plot 
development and then watch all the characters forget about it the next 
morning - 
but these should be rare and restricted to events crucial to the 
ongoing story, lest the mystery of Samhain be lost. Since this amnesia affects 
all but a handful of characters at most, and those who are immune dare not use 
their knowledge too openly or risk exposing themselves for what they are, the 
Samhain Mists should be quite balanced in play, protecting the acts and 
confessions of Seelie and Unseelie alike. 
Note also that Banality is still gained for acts such as killing another 
changeling or stealing a balefire, even if memories become hazy, so those 
criminals who try to hide behind the Samhain Mists may be harder to catch, 
but still suffer the same penalties from the Dreaming for doing so. 


Mew dackgrounb: flrestige 
The Shadow Court doesn’t recognize “official” titles, but it is possible to 
gain Prestige within the court. Trying to hold on to power and responsibility is 
seen as asking for trouble, but stepping down occasionally is seen as a gesture 
of humility. A courtier will probably not know who is more than one or two 
levels above her station, but she’d be foolish to exploit anyone below her. 
Prestige will not last longer than one year; if a changeling doesn’t get promoted 
at Samhain, he’ll lose at least one level of Prestige for the next year, though not 
to the point where he is considered outside the court. In fact, the Shadow Court 
is always changing as the Pageant moves on, and there’s no guarantee that this 
status will last beyond the first few sessions, but it is a good indicator of the level 
of respect the character gravitates toward. Consider it your reputation, for 
better or for worse. Anyone without at least one level of this Background is 
merely running with a clique, and not privy to court secrets even if she’s being 
groomed as a possible recruit. Prestige is never granted except on Samhain, and 
seldom removed before then either unless dire circumstances warrant it. 
Many Shadow Court agents hold titles in the regular Concordian system, 
the better to spy on them and disrupt their proceedings. Thus, it is very possible 


Court, or vice versa. The dangers of leading such a double life are obvious if the 
character is caught, but the rewards can be beyond imagining. 
One Trait -Condemned. You are firmly entrenched in the court and are 
permitted to learn secrets like the Dark Arts. You have forsaken your former 
life, even when given a chance or pressing reason to return. If you do not have 
this level of the Background when play begins, you must be given it by an 
Instigator during a Samhain ritual to be a member of the court, and until then 
you are merely running with a clique, no matter how loyal you may be. 
Two Traits - 
Guardian. Within your territory, you watch over an 
important location, anything from a freehold or glen to a gun store or chemical 
lab. You keep local cliques supplied with various needs, and in turn they respect 
your turf and protect your goods as best they can. This is also the term of choice 
for most Shadow Court “muscle,” and typically the highest that bruisers or 
vandals will ever rise in the court, at least until they show some facility for long- 
term planning. 
Three Trats - 
Pretender. You hold a title within the Seelie or Unseelie 
Court, at least that of knight or squire. This gives you at least one dot of Title, 
but also a possible double life and the risk of being harshly dealt with if you’re 
caught. However, since you’re such a valuable informant, even anarchist 
cliques tend to leave you be, giving you time to gather dirt on those above you 
as you rise to power in both courts. 
Four Traits- Mastemid. Certainly not everyone who plots and schemes 
has this level of Prestige, but those who have achieved it have literally made an 
art out of intrigue and tend to be visited by Instigators in need of information. You 
are involved in a secret society of at least five members, and trade favors freely. 
This gives you three free levels of the Influence Background that you can call 
upon (primarily Legal or Financial, but the Storyteller may modify this based on 
the type and power of the society). You also receive regular rumor updates, and 
the Storyteller may have a few choice bits of dirt for you in the form of gossip and 
other scurrilous sources you know well. (Note: These levels of Influence can be 
lost ifyoudropinPrestige, unless you takesteps toacquirethemmorepemanently.) 
Five Traits - 
Instigator. You recruit others into the Shadow Court, 
although you cannot actually Condemn them without learning the Advanced 
Contempt Art of Condemnation (see below). You’re slowly learning more about 
the hidden secrets of the court, and at least two cliques regularly brief you on 
their activities. When you gather at least five Kithain for rituals, the difficulty 
to observe and discern the nature of the gathering for outsiders is raised by two; 
this can improve with time and the complexity of the ritual as well. If captured, 
you are expected to die rather than divulge secrets, and if unwilling you will 
either quickly be rescued or killed by your fellows. There are always Instigators 
more powerful than you, as well, who can overrule your “authority,” and if you 
begin to act as if you rule the cliques who come to you, the backlash can become 
very nasty. As a function of station, you have at least two Masterminds working 


being treated as such. You must work with the Storyteller to determine their 
identities and powers, although the Storyteller will create these characters. 
Unseelie Houses 
Although Unseelie are certainly not limited to choosing from these three 
houses, they are the true Unseelie bloodlines and the only noble houses known 
to lie squarely in the Unseelie camp. Being part of the Shadow Court is not 
necessary for being a member of one of these houses, but it is both strongly 
possible and recommended, particularly for those of House Ailil and House 
Balor. Of course, commoners who are affiliated with the house do not receive 
either the Boon or the Flaw of the house, just as with the Seelie houses. 
In no case will a character who is primarily Seelie be from one of these 
“families,” although it is not inconceivable that an Unseelie of one of these 
houses might become Seelie later in life. Of course, earning the trust of one’s 
fellow Seelie is often next to impossible, given the reputation that Ailil and 
Balor have among the Kithain, though Leanhaun can typically pull it off as long 
as they keep their Rhapsodizing very discreet. What’s more, members of these 
houses who do make the change are best advised to check behind them often 
for irate relatives looking to put a knife in their backs, and remember that even 
those who were outside of the Shadow Court are often considered a potential 
liability to the family if they become too public in their new court.. .. 
House Aikl (Ay-L&&L) 
The house of honeyed words and serpents’ tongues, the sidhe of House 
Ailil are renowned for their Machiavellian plotting and firm belief in their own 
inherent superiority. They see the time of the Seelie as past and believe that 
only bold, decisive (read: their) leadership cansave the Kithainnow. They often 
promise commoner equality but have no intention of pursuing it if their goals 
are met. Members of this house are known for their compelling gazes, and for 
their choice of attire being as black as the midnight lords they serve. In no case 
will a member of this house ever be found as a happy underling of someone else 
- 
they’re always plotting, and frighteningly well at that. Turned against the 
enemies of the court or even the fae in general, this talent can create tactics that 
destroy most foes before they know what hit them; with no external threat to 
deal with, however, it can quickly riddle a court with enough intrigue to 
paralyze those not clever or strong enough to play the Ailil’s game. 
If a member of this house isn’t actually part of the local Shadow Court, she 
knows who is. There are a number of fairly prominent Ailil who claim to be 
Seelie, or at least are Unseelie who seem to have no Shadow Court ties, but 
whether they represent a true faction within their family or whether they are 
just another ploy on the part of this devious house, no one can say for sure. Proud 
of its heritage, Ailil is becoming more open, but on those occasions when it 
deems it necessary to hide its presence, most of them find it easy to masquerade 


-- 
- - -  
irony of masking themselves as Gwydion sidhe, and their natural arrogance 
makes this latter disguise a bit easier for them. Freeholds run by this house tend 
to be hotbeds of intrigue and politics that would make House Eiluned jealous. 
Boon: Ailil sidhe are expert manipulators. They receive a free Beguiling 
Social Trait, which can never be bought off, as well as one free retest per session 
on Subterfuge and Leadership tests (the second result must stand). 
Flaw: Those of House Ailil tend to believe too well in their fitness to rule, 
and take on tasks based on the belief that simply the virtue of their bloodline 
will allow them to succeed. They must make a Social Challenge to ever admit 
to doing wrong (difficulty depends on how serious the wrong is), even when it 
is obvious to all. If they ever back down from a situation where they have spent 
Influence, tested, cast cantrips or otherwise become actively involved, they 
suffer a one-Trait penalty to all Social Challenges until they gain some victory 
that restores face. They also must take a permanent Condescending Negative 
Social Trait, which can never be bought off. 
House dalor (dAY-lor) 
Though others have forgotten, those of House Balor remember the time 
when sidhe mixed blood with Fomorians back in the Old Country - 
they are 
the descendants of such matings. As such, those of House Balor bear some kind 
of deformity, be it physical, mental, emotional or spiritual, and bitter hatred 
toward their “perfect” cousins of the other houses. House Balor believes the 
Endless Winter is almost here, and that if they can bring it on themselves they 
will be the ones chosen to lead during the dark times. This fatalism leads to 
many Balor becoming anarchists, but those who see beyond such limited 
actions become dangerous fanatics with almost animal cunning. For their part, 
Balor know of their savage reputation and use it to their full advantage 
whenever they can, whether to scare a foe into backing down or to lure an 
overconfident foe into committing a fatal error based on expectations of the 
Balor’s substandard intelligence. 
True Seelie members of House Balor can be counted on one hand, and those 
few who try to resist their Unseelie side or refuse to join the Shadow Court are 
typically pushed to it by the hatred and revulsion their family name conjures in 
the “upstanding” Seelie around them. Since other fae expect them to be 
monsters, most Balor are only too happy to comply. They have even been known 
to flirt with alliances to such foul Prodigals as Black Spiral Dancer Garou and the 
modem-day fomori, and delight in playing with iron and other things repulsive 
to changelings in general. Balor dislike masquerading as other houses, but their 
foul reputation frequently makes it necessary; they most often try to pass 
themselves off as Dougal (due to their deformity) or Scathach (due to their love 
of battle). Freeholds ruled by those of House Balor tend to be brutal domains 
where everyone is out for their own. They keep their freeholds safe from the 
encroachments of others, much like wild animals guarding their territory. 


from cold iron as other fae do; in fact, they can handle cold iron without 
suffering any penalties and lose no Glamour from being struck by iron. This 
allows them to carry and utilize iron weapons without penalties. If slain by iron, 
however, their soul is just as destroyed as any other changeling’s. 
Flaw: All of this house must take some kind of serious deformity or 
handicap, which cannot be rectified through prosthetics or psychological help 
(no cantrips or treasures, either). Players are encouraged to work with the 
Storyteller to come up with strange and bizarre deformities, and to think 
beyond mere physical grossness to the possibilities of having more “poetic” 
deformities like being born utterly without a conscience. Unlike the namesake 
of the house and his evil eye, however, this deformity gives them no special 
powers. Balor fae must also take either two permanent Negative Traits 
(receiving no Traits for them) or a derangement of some type related to their 
deformity, which can never be bought off. If their deformity is represented by 
an existing Flaw, they may take it but receive no compensation for it and can 
never buy it off. Additionally, no member of House Balor can have a Willpower 
higher than four, for any reason, due to their savage Fomorian blood. 
House Leanhaun (lee-AMM-an) 
Members of this house have always been noted artists and often hold 
positions such as court bard in unsuspecting lands. Likewise, their skill at 
inspiring mortals to create masterpieces is well known, and if any other Kithain 
notice that such mortals always seem to meet tragic ends, the Leanhaun do their 
best to quiet such wagging tongues (sometimes forever). House Leanhaun 
harbors a dark secret, one that would make them pariahs from regular Kithain 
society if it were ever discovered. While the regular society of Concordia has 
noted their Glamour-hungryways, whichsometimes conflict with their powerful 
need for mortal inspiration, few suspect the real cause behind their ceaseless 
hunger. Due to an ancient curse, members of House Leanhaun age rapidly, 
growing one year older per week they spend without Rhapsodizing someone 
(see the Epiphany section of The Shining Host for details on Rhapsody), and 
thus also going from childling to wilder to grump in a painfully short period of 
time. This aging affects only their faerie mien, not their mortal seeming, but 
that makes it no less terrible, as those sidhe whose faerie miens expire from 
extreme age are considered Undone, just as fae who acquire 10 permanent 
Banality Traits are. 
Members of Leanhaunfeel justified in the damage they do, as it comes from 
a need to survive. There are quite a few Seelie among their number, and these 
are generally left alone by their Unseelie kin, as they are considered tragically 
misled at best and hopelessly blind at worst. In the greatest tragedy of all, many 
Leanhaun of both courts eventually come to care for some of the mortals they 
doom with their touch. Though the secret nature of their Flaw means that 
Leanhaun can live openly among their fellow fae, they prefer to hide their true 


secret. They find it quite easy to persuade others they are actually Fiona, though 
some of them pass themselves off as Liam sidhe in order to avoid questions and 
be close to mortals. Freeholds ruled by this house tend to be places of great art 
and greater tragedy, and the mortals tend to be “recycled” quite often as the 
house’s infamous Glamour hunger strikes. 
Boon: All members of House Leanhaun receive a free Seductive Social Trait, 
which can never be permanently lost, and they are two Traits up on any test 
during which they use an Appearance- or seduction-related Trait as their bid. 
Flaw: Leanhaun age at a rate of one year per week unless they engage in 
Rhapsody at least once during each week. This aging can be reversed and make 
the sidhe young again, but only with increasing infusions of Glamour, which do 
more harm to the mortal being Rhapsodized. They do not age gracefully, and must 
take aNegative PhysicalTrait each time they change seemings (childling, wilder, 
grump), which can only be bought off by changing back to a younger state. 
(C hallain 
The following kiths, collectively known as Thallain, represent degenerate 
types of some of the standard kiths and are believed to have appeared only after 
the return of the sidhe in 1969, riding the same wave from Arcadia. They are, 
for the most part, physically indistinguishable from normal - 
if somewhat 
slovenly -members of their “parent” kiths, but display very different Birthrights 
and Frailties. The Shadow Court uses them as secret weapons and closet allies, 
assigned to cliques for specific and important reasons (Thallain will not be 
found simply “wandering around”). They are one of the Shadow Court’s 
greatest secret weapons, and the court intends to keep it that way for as long as 
possible. 
Due to the taint of the Nightmare Realms they bear, Thallain have no 
Seelie Legacies and can never have one; rather, they have two Unseelie 
Legacies and alternate between them. (The difficulty is deciding what kind of 
bastard to be.) 
fieasties 
All Unseelie pooka have a feral side that is highly disturbing to those around 
them, but beasties go far beyond this discomfort into the realms of true horror - 
instead of animal forms, these foul kith transform into hideous monsters from the 
worst imaginings of a child lying awake in the dead of night. Those who see a 
beastie in its true form typically succumb to terror and flee, while the beastie revels 
in the dark Glamour harvested from such heady fear. Those who have survived 
close contact with a beastie and lived to tell about it typically block out the 
experience, rationalizing it as nothing more than a wild animal, though this 
mercy is far from complete, and the victim typically suffers from nightmares about 
the encounter for months. Naturally, beasties love this “attention” from mortals 


ensure their nightmares (and their tainted Glamour) will continue for months or 
even years, fading away long enough to let the targets feel safe before returning 
from the shadows to terrorize them once more. 
Most beasties have a powerful pack instinct and will meet with others of 
their kind at least once per month to begin their own version of the Wild 
Rumpus, running amuck throughout the countryside and Ravaging anyone 
they come across. Kithain and mortal authorities alike often have little clue 
about the true cause behind these mysterious “animal attacks” and “teenage 
crime sprees,” and those who do face the unpleasant prospect of battling a 
number of these monsters at once. As cunning as they are terrifying, beasties 
use this and the curious amnesia that follows their activity to their full 
advantage, taking care to never leave too much evidence of their presence 
behind. Like their pookacousins, they have a love of pranks of all kinds, though 
their pranks are decidedly deadly, typically designed to allow the beastie to see 
the fear and confusion ona target’s face right before he perishes. Unseelie pooka 
have tried to teach them of the value of leaving some targets alive, but the 
beasties don’t see much point to it. 
As appearances go, beasties typically hide themselves as Unseelie pooka, 
though their inhuman nature shows through even such casual disguises before 
long, forcing them to move on before their secret is discovered. They carryover 
traits of their true form, just as pooka do, though typically such features are the 
most harmless or normal-seeming ones, making it harder to discern their true 
nature and making their eventual transformation even more terrifying. The 
most clever beasties even master Primal or Metamorphosis to take regular animal 
forms, in order to further the deception that they are merely ordinary pooka. 
Most cannot hold down a mortal job for very long and are essentially drifters 
employed by the Shadow Court for acts of vandalism, terror and assassination. 
Affinity: Nature 
Birthrights: 
Beastie Form: Like pooka, beasties can change into their monster forms 
with 10secondsandapointofGlamourwhilenoone 
islooking.Thebeastieform, 
however, does not need to be a real animal; in fact, it’s better if it isn’t. Players are 
encouraged to come up with frightening and bizarre beastie forms, but remember 
that the Storyteller has final say on what is allowed. Also note that even if a 
beastie can become a six-headed, snake-fanged cow 0’ war, this doesn’t mean that 
all the heads can think or attack - 
the main use for such nightmare features of 
the creature is to scare the bejeezus out of opponents, not necessarily to be fully 
functional. Beasties in their animal form receive a free Intimidating Trait and two 
other Traits of the Storyteller’s choosing, but must automatically take Bestial x 2 
and two other Negative Traits of the Storyteller’s choosing. 
Gaia’s Mercy: Those who wimess a beastie’s true form typically panic and flee, 
and by the time an hour has passed they forget what they have seen, remembering 
onlv distorted stories of wild animals. (Think of the Garou Delirium, as described 


most are frightened by the beastie’s appearance anyway. 
Frailties: 
The Hunt: All Seelie have an innate, ancestral hatred of beasties, and 
upon seeing one in its true form or learning convincing proof of a beastie’s true 
nature, Seelie fae must immediately make a Willpower Test to avoid attacking 
it. A Willpower Trait can be spent to avoid attacking if this test fails; the effects 
of this Trait last for the rest of the scene, at the end of which time the Seelie 
must make another test if the beastie is still present. Of course, the Seelie may 
also choose to attack later if they wish, or if the beastie provokes them. This 
anger fades one hour after of the beastie’s departure, and the Seelie will not 
remember what provoked it, as per Gaia’s Mercy. All beasties receive a 
permanent Bestial Trait, which can never be bought off and which they receive 
no benefit from. 
4Joggarts (bog-A@CS) 
Boggarts have a curious shadow relationship with their regular boggan kin 
- 
they typically work alongside Unseelie boggans on different projects and can 
even shame their Seelie cousins into keeping silent about their existence. No 
small source of the shame is the similarity that boggarts have to their boggan 
relatives - 
both work well in teams and can accomplish amazing feats in just a 
fraction of the time it would take mortals to do the same job. However, while 
boggans do so to help others and foster community, boggarts do so for one simple 
reason: profit. It doesn’t evenmatter what that profit consists of-money, power, 
prestige, new souls for the Shadow Court- as long as there’s a lot of it to be had, 
and the worst corporate sharks of the ‘80s have nothing on these ruthless Thallain 
when it comes to worshipping the bottom line. Even the Shadow Court regards 
them with some suspicion, for boggarts tend to take care of themselves and their 
own more than anything else, and so do not usually enjoy the full support of the 
court until they have proven their loyalty on several occasions. 
This distrust is well placed- boggarts love the company of their own kind, 
not to mention Unseelie boggans, and regard Seelie boggans as a resource just 
waiting to be tapped and corrupted. They respect leadership only as long as their 
demands are met and they’re compensated for their efforts. Given their talent 
for gathering and organizing, this often means that an unsuspecting freehold 
can quickly be overrun by the demands of the boggart “union rep” as the number 
of these Thallain swell and their hierarchy gets more complex. They love 
keeping track of such power structures and spend a great deal of time tracking 
their place in the hierarchy. 
They have absolutely no concern for human life and see making the lives 
of mortals miserable (economically or otherwise) to be fitting punishment for 
being trapped in a world full of the dirty bastards. Combined with their talent 
for organization and bureaucracy, this makes them capable of the most 
depraved grotesqueness imaginable - 
so long as they get paid on time, they 


other revolting activities. Those who don’t pay find Mafia debt collectors to be 
far more merciful.. .. 
In their mortal mien, boggarts appear as humans of normal size and stature, 
typically dressed in smart business attire, though they have hungry eyes that 
unnerve business partners and rivals alike. To faerie sight, they appear as 
wicked dwarves largely identical to their boggan kin, though with ruddier skin 
and a hard glint in their eye. The longer they go without acquiring some form 
of wealth, the more foul and animalistic they look. Ears get pointier, noses get 
longer, and the worst even have tails. As mortals, they can be found in all levels 
of the business world, forever seeking to bring more of their kin onboard; in 
their faerie guise, the Shadow Court uses them as “fixers,” troubleshooters and 
damage control teams. For their part, boggarts don’t mind either way, so long 
as they get paid. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Industrious Comrades: Boggarts can perform physical labor in one-third 
the time it would normally take, as long as they remain unseen by any witnesses 
save boggans and other boggarts. Furthermore, boggarts need only sleep two 
hours per day to remain rested, and as such often take two jobs in the mortal 
world - 
they receive a free level of the Resources Background as well as a free 
level of the Finance Influence to reflect this, neither of which ever be 
permanently lost or traded away. All boggarts have a particular business 
specialty and are two Traits up on all tests involving this field. (Pick the Finance 
skill and take a specific field, such as Accounting, Hostik Takeover, etc.) 
Pack Mentality: Boggarts have a knack for sensing others of their kind and 
often try to recruit normal boggans away from their courts to serve them. They 
can sense an Unseelie boggan with a successful Mental Challenge. Once per 
story, a boggart can call on a band of his fellows to alter or destroy a given 
location or situation by spending a Willpower Trait and “making some calls.” 
It’s up to the Storyteller to decide if and how the other boggarts can help, but 
the results should be devious and destructive, with an eye to the short term. It 
is assumed that in downtime the boggart is helping his fellows in a similar 
manner, though the Storyteller can certainly use such reciprocal favors as a 
basis for story hooks if they desire. 
Frailties: 
Greed!: When presented with an unguarded item ofwealth, boggarts must 
make a Willpower Test to avoid stealing it. If they fail this check, their fingers 
become sticky, putting them one Trait up on the test to steal but also leaving 
telltale signs to those who know of boggarts. 
Callousness: Boggarts cannot purchase the Empathetic Trait and begin 
play with the Negative Trait Cabus, which can never be bought off. They do 


they understand that one very well - 
and should act this out as well as possible. 
di3ogies (bo-C;&&Z) 
Though many regular Kithain would be hard-pressed to think of creatures 
more suited to vile locales and dwelling in darkness than the sluagh, those few 
who have learned of bogies know that these Thallain have the sluagh beat. 
These odious monsters give even their parent kith a bad name, delighting in 
acts of cruelty and perversity that would make a redcap heave. All bogies have 
a craving for a particular type of fluid or organ in the human (or nonhuman) 
body, and while they do not die if this taste is unsatisfied, their hunger increases 
over time until they finally snap and do whatever it takes to slake their thirst 
Whether this thirst is for blood, mucus, bone marrow or other, more disgusting 
substances, bogies simply cannot hide their appetite for it, and truth be told 
most make little effort to do so unless they’re actively impersonating a sluagh, 
as they delight in the revulsion their appetites inspire in others. 
Bogies express their worst tendencies in their love of killing, and they 
typically have several rituals they follow that mark them as serial killers in the 
mortal world and legendary fiends in Kithain society. While they understand 
that killing a fellow changeling’s mortal form typically draws a great deal of 
unwanted attention to them, they have no qualms about killing a changeling’s 
fae form. Likewise, regarding humanity as little better than a virus with legs, 
they feel no remorse for the worst acts they commit against mortals, and the 
Shadow Court typically uses photos of the horrors bogie assassins perpetrate as 
a means of convincing recalcitrant agents or informants to cooperate. Make no 
mistake, though -bogies need no reason for killing other than the sheer joy 
of it, and while they’re happy to do so on behalf of the court, they’re just as happy 
to do it freelance. Rumors of sluagh hiring them for such tasks remain nothing 
more than rumors.. . for now. 
A bogie in mortal form typically appears as the most disgusting kind of loser 
one can think of, an expression of their contempt for the changeling practice 
of taking mortal bodies. In their fae guise, they are pale and thin enough to be 
mistaken for sluagh, though they display a few characteristic differences upon 
closer inspection: Their eyes and pupils dilate up to twice normal size in 
darkness, and rugose gills flap as they exhale. In addition, they lack the quiet 
grace of the sluagh, breathing through their mouths, slurping or snuffling 
constantly, even chattering their teeth like vermin. They take only the 
lowliest, least dignified jobs in mortal society, reveling in the disgust this 
inspires in their fellows. 
Note: While players should enjoy roleplaying the disgusting feeding habits 
of the bogies as much as they want, please remember that this is only a game - 
do not actually consume anything that vile, and even realistic representations 
should be avoided if it makes the other players queasy or uncomfortable out of 
character. 


Birthrights: 
Spawned in Darkness: Bogies can vomit up a cloud of foul, inky blackness 
once per session/day, which puts them two Traits up on tests related to stealth 
and silence and disorients foes trapped within it as if they were blind. The cloud 
moves at the bogies’ mental command, up to as fast as a human can walk, and 
is clearly an unnatural darkness to those who see it, much less those who are 
trapped within its suffocating depths. Supernatural means of seeing in darkness 
suffer a two-Trait penalty. Outside light sources, even supernatural ones, do not 
pierce this darkness. 
Hatred of the Weaver: Bogies can spend a point of Glamour and become 
invisible to technological devices for one hour of game time. Mundane 
equipment malfunctions or picks up static, and bright lights flicker on and off. 
Magically empowered treasures, fetishes or sentient devices may resist this with 
a Mental Challenge against the bogie. Bogies can and often do combine this 
invisibility with Arts or other powers in order to pass truly unnoticed, making 
them frightening assassins. Those captured by the authorities often like to make 
confessions on tape, which just so happen to be useless later on. 
Frailties: 
Curse of the Weaver: There is an easy way to tell bogies from sluagh - 
bind them. They cannot contort the way sluagh can and lose one health level 
for each hour they are so tied, followed by a loss of a Physical Trait every hour 
until death occurs when the last Trait is gone. Bogies cannot stand the thought 
of being confined in any way, and if imprisoned (such as in a cell) they will 
screech and cry and lose a health level for each day they are locked up. In 
addition, while bogies do not need to whisper, they can and often do in order 
to impersonate sluagh. 
Goblins t GO 6-linz 1 
When it comes to unleashing the destructive power of technology, no 
other kith comes close to the sheer havoc made possible when the Thallain 
known as goblins become involved. While frequently found in the company of 
Unseelie nockers, who try to pass them off as incompetent assistants, goblins 
are equally capable of crafting devices for massive carnage on their own, and the 
idea of teams of goblins working on weapons of mass destruction is second only 
to the fear of Endless Winter on most changelings’ list of scary thoughts. For 
their part, goblins simply think that their ruinous habits are a perfectly natural 
means of innovation, and if humans and other fae are so uncomfortable with 
the idea of technology, then what are they doing using it in the first place? 
Although Thallain are thought to have been lost until only recently, there 
is some evidence to suggest that anumber of goblins hid among the deepest labs 
ofunseelie nockers for centuries. This would certainly explain their talent with 
the tools of the modem world, and possibly how they earned their other 
appellation-gremlins. 
Regardless of the truth, the two groups have a powerful 


mistake them for their Unseelie counterparts, considering themselves artistes 
ona level thatunseelie nockers can only aspire to. Indeed, while they care little 
for the hurt feelings or bodies of others, goblins are highly competitive among 
their own kind, and compete each season to see who can come up with the 
device most ingenious at causing mayhem, as determined by the fashion of 
device currently in season. These competitions are frequently impossible for 
outsiders to decipher, appearing as little more than a flurry of explosions, 
weaponry and flying limbs, but they sure do keep the goblins happy! 
Goblins are among the most valued infiltrators of the Thallain, considering 
how easily they pass for Unseelie nockers and how few Kithain are likely to 
bother inquiring about the life history of someone they consider another 
member of that taciturn kith. They can even call themselves by their true name 
in front of others, because over time it has become synonymous with Unseelie 
nockers, and thus most Kithain think nothing of it. Best of all, if their identity 
is discovered, goblins have no end of ways to make such witnesses disappear.. .. 
In their mortal seeming, goblins typically appear as the worst sort of science 
nerds or geeky collegiate types, and they find employment in areas where they 
can turn their destructive talents to good use: Hacking, product testing and 
weapon design are favorites, though they can be found in nearly any field of 
science or technology. They also function as the demolitions and heavy 
artillery of Shadow Court forces on the rare occasions when such units are 
necessary, though given their talent for self-destruction they are kept far away 
from the other troops. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 
Mayhem: At the beginning of each story, a goblin can create a device 
capable of unleashing mayhem. This requires a Mental Challenge (retest with 
the Crafts or Repair Ability), against a difficulty based on the complexity of the 
device created, the extent/power of the mayhem to be caused, whether it will 
inflict damage, and if so, how much, and the amount of time/tools put into 
creating it. It should be noted that goblin devices can have only destructive 
results, never constructive ones. The Storyteller should always be present at the 
creation of such a device, not only to determine difficulty of the test but also 
the nature of the creation and its specific powers and requirements. The 
Dreaming often hides such nasty devices in the guise of bizarre contraptions no 
one can figure out until the time is right (“What the hell is that thing?”). 
Multiple goblins can combine their skills on the Mental Challenge; each 
additional goblin adds one Trait to the total, plus one extra Trait for each level 
of the appropriate Ability being used that the extra goblin has. Additional 
mayhem-causing devices can be crafted later on in the story, but at a cost of one 
Glamour each, and require the same Storyteller supervision to design. 
Gremlin Urge: With the expenditure of a point of Glamour, a goblin can 
touch any mechanical device and cause it to malfunction, typically in the most 


Social Challenge in addition to the Glamour Trait. If someone is holding the 
item in question and trying to defend it, a Physical Challenge must be won to 
use this power. Note that the goblin has no actual control over how the device 
will malfunction, only that it will -he can make suggestions, but ultimately 
it is the Narrator’s decision. 
Frailties: 
Destructive Urge: Just like nockers, goblins always create flawed items; 
however, their flaws tend to be much more violent and destructive, and 
sometimes even the goblingetscaught up in their unexpected results. Storytellers 
should feel free to assign all manner of Negative Traits to goblin devices and are 
encouraged to make full use of any failed tests when goblins try to create 
devices, perhaps even convincing the goblin player that the machine was 
successfully created after all ... . 
Ogres (Ok-Cq@S) 
Though often mistaken for Unseelie trolls, these giants couldn’t be farther 
from their brethren - 
they have no concept of honor, don’t hesitate to use 
their strength to bully the weak, and use violence and intimidation to solve 
their problems, whether they happen to be the best options or not. They are 
infamous bullies, even in the Shadow Court, and require constant supervision 
to keep from smashing things out of boredom, though if properly channeled 
they make passable infiltrators (who questions the word of most trolls?) and 
nightmarish warriors. Their talent for sniffing out Unseelie in general and 
Thallain in particular makes them invaluable to the Shadow Court in their 
efforts to find and recruit new members, and so those few ogres that are known 
are closely monitored and guarded by the court. 
While ogres will never be accused of overthinking a situation, and most 
Seelie Kithain fall for their disguise because they assume them to be nothing 
more than slow-witted trolls, those who underestimate the cunning of these 
brutes suffer for it. They are capable of adopting enough of a deviant attitude 
(for them, anyway) that they can impersonate the normal troll code of honor 
with surprising consistency, and when it comes time for battle they have a true 
talent for destroying things that get in their path - 
traps, barriers, opponents 
or even inconveniently placed landmarks. Ogres despise politics, however, 
since it represents power that can’t simply be bludgeoned with a club, though 
they delight in doing so to its chosen representatives as often as possible, and 
the term “bully pulpit” takes on a whole new meaning when ogres are involved. 
Beings of great appetite, both regular and otherwise, ogres have no sense of 
social graces; around beautiful fae such as the sidhe they make no effort to hide 
their lusty tastes. 
Ogres in mortal guise take the most simple, menial jobs they can find and 
delight in showing off their strength to those around them. They appear as 
unwashed, unshaven brutes with little regard for personal hygiene, and even 


humor and entertainment likewise sets them apart from most of their mortal 
contacts. In fae form, they are towering giants, with features like evolutionary 
throwbacks of the troll line, and most sport various trophies from defeated foes 
as part of their voile. 
Affinity: Fae 
Birthrights: 
Smells Like Chicken!: Ogres automatically sense the presence of other 
Thallain (the Storyteller should alert the player ahead of time as to who will be 
playing Thallain, and inform the player immediately if another enters later), 
and with a successful Simple Test they can tell a Seelie from an Unseelie. If they 
can defeat a person in three consecutive Simple Tests, they can ask for a very 
rough overview of that character’s emotional state, putting them one Trait up 
on the first Social Challenge they enter against that target. 
Strong as Oaks: Ogres receive two free Brawny Physical Traits that can 
never be lost and receive a free automatic retest on any Strength-related test 
(the second result must stand). 
Frailties: 
Dumb as Rocks: Ogres are not the brightest chaps and face severe 
restrictions on brainpower. They cannot choose Mental as their primary 
Attribute category, may not possess more than one Mental Trait pertaining to 
intelligence and book-learning at the time of character creation, and buy any 
such Traits at twice the regular cost once play begins. Additionally, they must 
choose two permanent Negative Mental Traits from the following list, which 
can never be bought off: Gullible, Ignorant, Oblivious, Predictable, Shortsighted, 
Violent or Witkss. 
Spriggan tS@@lG-un) 
Thallain are not noted for their personal hygiene or their generous natures, 
but even among their dark brethren, spriggans stand out as models of wicked 
behavior. Greedy and callous, these malicious Thallain love to play tricks on 
mortals who are already down on their luck, pushing them to further extremes 
of despair or degenerate behavior while the spriggan revels from afar. They 
cannot stand to be mocked themselves, however, and their great rage makes 
them easy targets in both a literal and figurative sense for those clever enough 
to exploit this weakness. Spriggans go to great lengths to avenge a humiliation 
visited upon them, and while not the most inventive of foes, they tend to strike 
where a target is weakest, including mortal friends or relatives. 
One of the only reasons the Shadow Court bothers to keep spriggans 
around is their absolute intractability when it comes to guarding anything 
entrusted to their care. Greedy as they are, spriggans are fanatically protective 
of what they consider theirs, and for a suitable fee they’re willing to extend this 
ferocity to the possessions of others as well. Even these normally cowardly 
Thallain can become raging lions if they think their stash is being threatened, 


struck by the courage of a spriggan defending its loot. Spriggans have one other 
bad habit, which has earned them a good deal of their reputation over the years 
-kidnapping, especially children and childling fae. Though they seldom harm 
the child, save for a little teasing, spriggans enjoy the panic that ensues as a 
community searches for a child. Though they have tamed their ways in this 
direction somewhat, given the zeal with which most Kithain and mortal 
authorities pursue those who commit such crimes, spriggans still enjoy a good 
kidnapping when they can, keeping it secret even from their Shadow Court 
allies. 
In their mortal forms, spriggans are the polar opposites of their piskey 
cousins; they are unkempt in the extreme, with stringy hair and worn-out 
clothing that looks as unwashed as they are. Their fae mien is little better, with 
small predatory points on their teeth and dull gray hair as opposed to the normal 
silver shine of piskey hair; their eyes are small and beady, constantly flicking 
from one side to another as if watching out for someone intent on stealing their 
stuff. Like most Thallain, they typically make little pretense at holding down 
a mortal life or job, but some find work as shady security guards or fences for 
small-time crooks. 
Affinity: Prop 
Birthrights: 
Stalwart Guardians: Whenever a spriggan promises to guard something, 
she receives two extra Willpower Traits, as well as a free retest on all attempts 
(magical or otherwise) to influence her into betraying her responsibilities. A 
spriggan may only receive this benefit for one duty at a time, and once the extra 
Willpower Traits are spent, they cannot be regained for the rest of the story; 
these Traits also disappear if a job is finished, although the spriggan may then 
assume another guardianship. Spriggans are also considered to have twice as 
many Willpower Traits as they actually possess when it comes to resolving ties 
regarding defending their treasure. 
Sturm und Drang: Bad weather seems to follow this kith; with the 
expenditure of a Willpower Trait and a successful Social Challenge, the 
spriggan may call up a small but concentrated storm. While it cannot actually 
damage buildings or other characters, the storm generally makes anyone in the 
area miserable: Thick gray clouds, scattered bursts of hail, sheets of rain and 
unpredictable winds rake the area for one scene. All characters save the 
spriggan himselfwho are caught in the storm are one Trait down on all Physical 
Challenges, and any ranged attacks are at an additional one-Trait penalty due 
to poor visibility. This is a Wyrd Birthright and can only be invoked outdoors. 
Frailties: 
Height of Folly: All spriggans have unpleasant tempers, and when 
insulted they tend to have a surprising reaction - 
these Thallain actually grow 
larger as their fury rises, up to twice their normal size. Unfortunately for them, 


Social Challenge, made the target of a serious personal jibe or otherwise directly 
and gravely insulted, the spriggan must immediately win (not tie) a Simple Test 
or begin to grow at a rate of two feet per turn until she calms down or reaches 
twice normal size. What’s more, while in her enlarged and enraged state, she 
receives the Negative Traits Clumsy x 2 and Violent, opponents are one Trait 
up on all tests to hit her in combat, and the spriggan should adopt a posture that 
signifies her increased size. This rage lasts until the spriggan has beaten her foe, 
left the area or spent a Willpower Trait to contain her anger. On the positive 
side, spriggans receive an extra Bunk Trait on all uses of the Go Ask Alice power 
of the Metamorphosis Art, provided they are using the cantrip to grow larger 
than normal. They must earn at least one Bunk Trait normally before the extra 
Trait applies, and in no case may a single Bunk be worth more than five Traits. 
This is a Wyrd Frailty - 
spriggans do not actually grow to the sight of the 
unenchanted, but still gain the Negative Traits involved due to their lumbering 
form, and mortal witnesses typically ascribe their impairment to extreme rage 
or intoxication. 
Optional Glamour System: Reaping 
The most brutal Unseelie and their Thallain brethren have long held a 
secret way of drawing Glamour from their victims - 
Reaping, or gaining 
Glamour from the fear of a dying Dreamer. Make no mistake - 
mere murder 
is not enough to gain Glamour with Reaping. Rather, to gain the full benefits, 
the user must literally scare the Dreamer to death; anything else may certainly 
be sport to such vile fae but does not net the Unseelie any Glamour. Reaping 
typically requires a great deal of planning and preparation to pull off, as it is 
harder than it might seem for even the most horrifying Thallain to actually 
scare someone to death, unless the victim has a heart condition or - 
better 
still - 
a particular phobia that can be exploited by the would-be Reaper. 
Indeed, all too often the target flees, passes out cold or is rude enough to die 
of related injuries rather than the fear itself, wasting the efforts of all 
concerned. Storytellers are thus encouraged to be demanding when it comes 
to meeting the requirements for Reaping, lest it become a quick fix for those 
unconcerned with a body count. 
Should the Unseelie be clever and frightening enough to terrify a true 
Dreamer (not just any mortal) to death, she may immediately make a number 
of Glamour tests equal to their permanent Glamour rating against a difficulty 
of five Traits; for each successful test, the Unseelie gains one Glamour Trait, up 
to her normal maximum. If she should fail all of these tests, she gains two 
temporary Banality Traits, and must immediately make an additional Simple 
Test - 
if she fails this test, she suffers a psychic backlash as well, giving her a 
permanent point of Banality as well as the Nightmares Flaw (or doubling the 
penalties of that Flaw if she already has it). Additionally, the intimidation or 
murder of Dreamers is considered a reprehensible crime by most Kithain, even 


hidden from mortal and Kithain authorities alike, though itremains a delighdul 
way to pass a sinister Samhain eve for those twisted fae who do enjoy it. 
At the Storyteller’s option, some Unseelie may gain Glamour from 
simply frightening Dreamers in this fashion, rather than actually needing to 
kill them, though if this is permitted the Unseelie must still inspire true terror 
in her victims (not merely shock or momentary fright) and gets only half the 
number of tests normally allowed for Reaping, rounding up; penalties for 
failing remain the same. 
Reaping can add a delightfully dark edge to games with heavy Unseelie 
or Shadow Court presence (not to mention inspire a number of Samhain 
contests), driving home their traditional role as bringers of fear and change. 
However, it should be noted that Reaping may be a little too dark for some 
groups or players, and Storytellers should refrain from allowing it unless they 
are sure it won’t be too disturbing to players out of character, and that those 
players who do use it understand the seriousness of the experience, as well as 
the penalties for it if their characters are caught. When used correctly, though, 
it can show even the most callous Prodigals exactly why the Unseelie are 
called the Lords of Nightmare.. .. 
The following powers are Arts that are known solely by members of the 
Shadow Court; although some have toyed with the idea of allowing outsiders 
to learn Contempt as a way of undermining the sidhe nobility, no one is allowed 
to take this debate past the realm of theory yet. After all, these Arts are the 
result of 600 years of secrecy and practice, and the Shadow Court is in no hurry 
to lose its edge now with a hasty gamble. 
Contempt 
While Unseelie nobles have been known to use the Sovereign Art, some 
have chosen instead to counter it using their knowledge of the Art of Contempt. 
Commoners have also found it very useful when avoiding the dictates of Seelie 
sidhe, and it is true this Art counters effects of Sovereign almost on a one-for- 
one basis (with the exception of Weaver Ward, which is countered by Wayfare 
instead), causing rulers no end of frustration. Of course, most of these Arts can 
be used aside from countering Sovereign as well - 
such uses frequently permit 
the caster to invoke Unseelie law over those affected, submitting them to the 
rules and tenets of the Winter Manifesto in a perverse parody of the normal 
rules of Sovereign. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Art Note: While many uses of this Art invoke feelings of bitter resentment 
and even violence against traditional authority, players must still respect the 
rules of live-action and not actually harm anyone or anything- the “no touch” 


that may be the targets ofcontempt. In addition, unless the game is taking place 
in private where everyone knows what’s going on, remember to keep your 
voices low and language clean enough to avoid being given a ticket or the boot 
from your locale. 
Basic 
Mockery: This Art allows a changeling to escape the stifling effects of the 
cantrip Protocol, either in herself or others as the Realms used dictate. Once the 
Protocol is about to finish its casting, theMockery caster must engage ina Mental 
Challenge with the Protocol caster in addition to performing a Bunk - 
success 
indicates immunity to the effects for the duration of the proceedings. Both 
casters are considered a number of Traits up equal to the level of the Bunks they 
are using. (Note that the Protocol caster will not necessarily know who is 
attempting Mockery unless the Bunk performed is so obvious that he can put it 
together right away.) This allows for a wide range of normally unacceptable 
behavior on the part of the changeling, from calling immediate duels to 
grandstanding and interrupting the monarch, but most fae will not see anything 
terribly odd in this as the caster is almost always publicly Unseelie anyway. If 
Mockery is cast without intent to counter P~otocol, it becomes instead a twisted 
version of said magic, allowing for a barbarian court of Unseelie law - 
essentially the ruler is allowed martial law over those present, including Seelie 
and other bystanders. 
Disobedience: An individual affected by this cantrip shows flagrant disre- 
gard for authority for the remainder of the scene. It does not cause those affected 
to physically assault authority figures, but it may result in acts of violence if the 
individual feels he’s being “put down by the Man” (so to speak). Arguments that 
once seemed logical suddenly seem hollow, and warnings or dictums against 
certain behavior seem offensive. If a noble is nearby, this cantrip may be used to 
counteract the Sovereign power of Dictum - 
the character must take aside the 
person to be hardened against Dictum and give her a few choice words of 
encouragement about her “rights” (roleplay this out to the fullest), then cast the 
cantrip. The Bunk Traits so gained in casting are added to the target’s Traits for 
the purposes of resisting Bctum, and the target is allowed to spend Willpower to 
ignore the effects of Dictum even if she would not normally be allowed to do so. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, this may be used to counter powers of Prodigals 
(Presence Discipline, certain Garou Gifts, etc.) in a similar fashion. 
Intermediate 
Insolence: Insolence can be used to inspire large groups of people to riot. 
This is especially useful at occasions where emotions are already running high 
-raves, rock concerts, lynchings, etc. -but 
can be used just about anywhere 
with sufficient magic. For each Bunk Trait gained, five mortals or one 
supernatural entity can be herded into attacking someone or something else; 
unfortunately, while the caster is free to use any means at his disposal to direct 
the anger of the mob, ultimately he provides only the initial spark - 
the 


to vent its rage, though the results are seldom anything less than spectacular. 
This cantrip can also be used to negate the Sovereign power of Grandeur. 
Only one Shadow Court fae can attempt this per scene, however, and if one 
fails, all are screwed. If used to counteract Grandeur, the caster must make some 
remark or take some action that would detract from the seriousness of the 
noble’s power, then cast the cantrip - 
each Bunk Trait gained allows one 
person present to make a Simple Test against the user of Grandeur, with success 
meaning the target is immune to all uses of Grandeur for the rest of the session. 
Devil’s Advocate: A fae using this magic can convince a crowd of just 
about anything. The only catch is that the persuasive power of this glib tongue 
only lasts for the duration of one scene, after which those affected may snap 
back to their senses and realize that they’ve been duped (though only supernatural 
beings suspect that anything paranormal has occurred). In lieu of the normal 
Bunk, however, the character must actually make a speech explaining the 
position he wants the crowd to take; the number of BunkTraits gaineddepends 
on the length of the speech and how convincingly it is presented. An especially 
short or poorly phrased speech is worth only a Bunk Trait or two, while a long 
and well-versed oration can net the caster four or five Traits. After the speech 
is concluded, the fae must spend a Willpower Trait and make a Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty equal to one for every two people they wish to 
affect, rounding up (with the expenditure of an additional Willpower Trait, the 
difficulty equals one for every four people). If successful, the crowd can be 
convinced of almost anything the character desires and remains absolutely 
convinced for one hour of game time. Of course, they may remain convinced 
for longer than that, depending on what the caster led them to believe; those 
who are persuaded that they are actually space aliens from the planet Zorg 
return to their senses immediately when the cantrip ends, but those who are 
told to avoid an out-of-the-way location or something more subtle may stay 
persuaded untilsomething directly conflicts with this new belief. The Storyteller 
has the final say on how long such persuasion lasts. 
This Art may also be used to counter a Gem cantrip cast by a noble - 
if 
the Unseelie is present at such a casting, he may use this Art (once again, with 
a speech) to make the noble reconsider the Gem. This doesn’t absolutely cancel 
a Gem, but it does at least buy time and possibly a full reprieve, depending on 
the noble in question. 
Advanced 
Condemnation: This is the unholy ritual of the Shadow Court and is 
always used in an elaborate ceremony, as it defines an individual’s prestige in 
the court. It is used during Samhain by only a few worthy individuals, called 
Instigators. This ritual is used to declare new titles within the court, and who 
will be Instigators for the upcoming year. This can also be used at other times 
of the year to recognize a clique, cast someone from the court or recognize 
someone as worthy of learning the Dark Arts. The “high priest” using the 


participants of such ceremonies are protected by the Mists, but even some of 
them will forget muchofwhat occurred, remembering only in the subconscious 
what they are and what they have to do. 
Those who are receiving their first Condemnation must renounce all former 
ties of allegiance and give themselves to their Unseelie side. An Instigator 
usually learns what the fae must renounce and presents her with pictures of 
rivals, authority figures and loved ones to insult, disfigure or bum. Some 
Instigators may even demand that the recruit must renounce her oaths and 
suffer any penalties such oath-breaking entails. 
An Instigator present at any other ceremony or secret meeting can shield 
all Condemned participants from scrutiny by this cantrip. This is not true 
invisibility, but more a form of misdirection, as the Condemned’s activities look 
no more suspicious than a group of people talking at a cocktail party. Those 
members of the group who have not been initiated may still stay with the group, 
but they are oblivious to what is going on and unable to describe events later; 
some describe the effect as attempting to listen to a dozen conversations at 
once. Someone wishing to break into a shielded group must make a Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty of nine Traits, and even then, he is entering the 
conversation late. If this is used during a ritual, the details of the ritual translate 
into metaphoric images for unGondemned witnesses, leading most to believe 
that they are drugged or insane. 
Oelusion 
The Mists have been one of the most useful allies the Shadow Court has. 
Unseelie changelings hide in a fog of doubts and uncertainties, of half-truths 
and insecurities. Perhaps the world recognizes that there must be equilibrium 
to all things, and the great evil of the Shadow Court would tip the already 
suffering world completely out of balance. 
Type of Challenge: Social 
Basic 
Innocence: Hiding secrets and faces is a valuable ability, and this Art 
allows the Shadow Court to plant agents among their Seelie brethren. The 
simplest way to keep a secret, of course, is to act like you have no knowledge of 
it whatsoever. This Dark Art masks any outward signs of recognition regarding 
one particular topic or secret. On all tests related to keeping the secret, the 
caster is up a number of Traits equal to the number of Bunk Traits gained in the 
cantrip casting. (Thus, if someone is using a Mental Challenge to break your 
character with interrogation, and you cast a three-Bunk Trait Innocence 
cantrip, you are up three Traits on the Social Challenge required for the 
interrogation.) This effect lasts for one day or night, and must be renewed each 
interval to be effective. The aura of a character using this Art appears innocent 
to those using Aura Perception and similar powers. 


those attempting to unearth the knowledge. Learning out of play that a 
character has a secret, and then immediately making that character the target 
of this Art is frankly cheating. 
Facade: This Dark Art allows the changeling to adopt a very effective 
disguise for a period of time, although his actual body doesn’t change - 
only 
others’ perception of it, so those seeing the character might be certain he had 
red hair when it was actually brown, and the like. The caster must perform a 
Bunk related to changing his appearance (wearing a mask, etc.), then spend a 
Glamour Trait - 
the result is a disguise that lasts for one hour. This time may 
be extended by expending an additional Glamour per hour, but no more 
Glamour Traits may be spent this way than the number of Bunk Traits gained 
in the cantrip’s casting. If the disguise isn’t exceptionally hard to maintain or 
doesn’t encounter much strenuous activity, this time can be lengthened to one 
day per Glamour Trait, but only at the Storyteller’s discretion. Since it fools the 
minds of witnesses and not their physical perceptions, this disguise cannot be 
broken by physical sensory powers like Heightened Senses. Only someone who 
is actively suspicious of the caster for some reason (“What kind of nocker can’t 
identify a Phillips-head screwdriver?”) may attempt to pierce the disguise, and 
they must defeat him in a test of their Mental Traits against his Social Traits. 
This is not a completely flawless power of disguise, as the caster may never adopt 
the same Facade twice. 
Other Realms may be used in connection to this cantrip as the caster sees 
fit-using 
the Prop Realm might mean the disguise lasts as long as the character 
holds a particular item, while Scene would dictate where the disguise can be 
adopted. 
Intermediate 
Mists of Memory: The Mists are not always as objective as the Seelie 
would like them to be. A disreputable fae may manipulate the Mists to cloud 
the minds of others and banish specific memories, but this Dark Art can never 
overcome certain things: the loyalty of a troll, the chivalry of a sidhe, an oath, 
a geas or true love. The caster engages the target in a Social Challenge. If 
successful, this allows the caster to remove a broad area of memory determined 
by the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting: 1 Trait - 
all memory of one 
thing that was said, done or witnessed in the last 15 minutes; 2 Traits - 
all 
memory of what happened in the last 15 minutes; 3 Traits - 
any memory of 
what happened in the last hour; 4 Traits - 
any memory of what happened in 
the last sessionlday; 5+ Traits - 
any one memory, completely. Lost memories 
may be restored at will by the caster, or by the successful use of this Art by 
another fae who is aware of the original tampering and seeks to correct it. Note 
that this Art does not allow the caster to alter, steal or replace memories in any 
way, only delete them, and targets may become suspicious if this gap in their 
memory is somehow brought to their attention. Unless the caster advertises this 
cantrip with an obvious Bunk, however, targets are normally unaware of its use. 


can convince one willing listener to undertake an enterprise that is not directly 
harmful to him, and then forget about undertaking that activity afterward. 
(“You must take this to the duke -he needs this right away.”) In addition to 
any other Bunk used, the cantrip must include an explanation of why the 
activity is important - 
this does not need to be true, but it must be at least 
somewhat believable -which 
takes at least a minute of game time. Once the 
activity is performed, the Mists erase all memory of it from the target’s mind, 
including that the cantrip caster originally asked him to do it, making such 
targets perfect fall guys for all manner of wicked schemes since they don’t even 
remember who bid them to do as they did. Again, this activity cannot be 
directly harmful to the listener, and sending him to someone or something that 
really doesn’t like visitors (such as a dragon, a river hag, a Lost One or Prodigal), 
someplace where ignorance could be very dangerous (such as the Nightmare 
Realms or a war zone) or to an activity that could be fatal (“Take this sword and 
cut off the duke’s head in the middle of court.”) does count. 
Advanced 
The Darkest Heart: This is as serious as Gem, and not undertaken lightly. 
Some undertake it of their own free will, while others (like weak Seelie) are 
Condemned and forced into it. When a changeling performs an act, willingly or 
otherwise, that she later regrets, she may come to terms with it by hiding it in 
the darkest depths of her heart and performing a quest to atone for the sin. She 
cannot speak of it until the quest is over, and the memory is hidden, and this 
effect cannot be lifted until the next Samhain comes around. The fae gives 
herself totally to her Unseelie nature but retains the hidden memories of the 
incident that drives the quest, which cannot be taken away by any means. If she 
repeats the sin for which she was questing, wittingly or not, she gains a 
permanent Banality Trait and the quest is over. As long as she doesn’t violate 
that, she may confess to an Instigator at the end of the year - 
until that time, 
she is under a Ban on a particular Realm (see below). If she succeeds at going 
the year without breaking her Ban or repeating her sin, and then confesses to 
an Instigator, she will lose a permanent point of Banality as the guilt rises from 
her heart and she is forgiven. 
This is an epic journey, even if it is one into darkness, and should be treated 
accordingly. The Ban a character suffers must be related to a particular Realm 
that has some relation to her quest and should be fairly difficult to uphold. For 
example, a lecherous fae seeking to undo the damage done by a heartless tryst 
might be under an Actor Ban not to associate with members of the opposite sex. 


Not every inhabitant of the Dreaming falls neatly into the categories of 
changelings or chimera. Perhaps the greatest class of unsung heroes and 
forgotten servants are the enchanted, mortals brought into the chimerical 
world through the power of Glamour. Playing one of these characters offers the 
chance to experience changeling society from the ground up, through the eyes 
of those often overlooked by the Kithain to whom they are so valuable. Striving 
to make one’s mark in such circumstances can be difficult, but those who do are 
truly the stuff of legends. 
There are actually two different categories that mortals fall under when it 
comes to interacting with the Dreaming: Some of them, called kinain, have 
actual faerie blood running through their veins, and with time and training can 
even master some Glamour tricks of their own. Others are simply regular 
mortals who have been pulled into a world beyond their wildest dreams and 
struggle daily to come to grips with a world that’s often as terrifying as it is 
wonderful. This section focuses primarily on kinain, since their unique condition 
requires special rules and powers, but this should not be mistaken for indicating 
that they are in the majority when it comes to the enchanted. As particularly 
astute Kithain scholars have noted, were it not for the everyday efforts of 
countless perfectly ordinary mortals employed in freeholds and townships 
across the country, faerie society might quickly grind to a halt, if not collapse 
altogether. 
Lnchanteb Mortals 
As far back as history stretches, one can find accounts of faeries 
taking delight in playing tricks on mortals, drawing them into their 
hidden world with gifts of food and baubles, then laughing as the 
poor mortals tried to find their way back to the “real” world they’d 
left behind, sometimes returning years or even decades later. On the 
other hand, some Kithain would take those mortals who had 
impressed them or earned their trust in some way and bring them 
into the chimerical world as a reward, showering them with gifts 
and parties for what seemed like years to the awestruck human, then 
dropping them back into the world to reveal that they had missed 
a few hours at most. Still other Kithain would bring friends or lovers 
into their world to try to help them understand the faerie’s true 
nature, often with tragic results. Yet other faeries, sidhe in particular, 
took mortals into their freeholds as servants, whether of their own 
free will or as slaves enthralled by their Glamour, the foundation of 
the now ancient practice of using enchanted mortals as guards, 
housekeepers and even valets for changeling freeholds. 
Following the Shattering, the process of enchanting mortals 
took on a whole different flavor. Forced to coexist with humans as 
never before and free of the influence of sidhe lords who viewed 


significantly, using enchantment as a way of bringing those they 
trusted closer to them and helping hold together the fragile 
communities of changelings struggling to survive in the face of 
harsh Banality. No longer were they mere guards or cupbearers - 
enchanted mortals stood alongside their faerie allies against some of 
the greatest threats the Dreaming has ever known, and while few 
ever rose to the higher echelons of Kithain culture, it was in no 
small part thanks to their tireless efforts at the lowest levels of 
society that changelings survived, adapted and even began rebuilding 
their empires of dreams. 
Mortals are not the only beings brought into the enchanted 
world; some changelings, childlings especially, are quite fond of 
enchanting animals to help them. More than one family dog has 
become a hero in the enchanted world for fending off some dreadful 
chimerical monster seeking to devour its young owner! The 
enchantment of animals works exactly the same way as it does for 
mortals, with a few notable exceptions. First of all, the changeling 
must have at least a small degree of the animal’s trust; this makes 
tokens of food the most common way of enchanting animals, for 
even the most suspicious beast is likely to accept an offering of food 
in time. Other common tokens include collars or leashes, though as 
usual the form is less important than having the animal accept the 
gift itself. Second, animals gain all the normal benefits of being 
enchanted - 
they can see the fae mien of changelings, interact 
with chimera and so on - 
but since their minds are not rational and 
not subject to Banality, they are immune to Bedlam or becoming 
Dream-struck and thus typically take to the experience much more 
easily than humans do. Finally, while use of the Primal Art of 
Willow Whisper is still needed to truly communicate with them, it’s 
also widely held that animals that are enchanted often enough can 
develop intelligence and even the power of speech while in the 
chimerical world, becoming loyal companions to those who 
“awakened” them. Such a transformation and any Trait adjustment 
it involves is solely at the discretion of the Storyteller. 


Kinuin 
Faeries and humans have mingled bloodlines since ancient times, but it 
was not until the Shattering and the subsequent adoption of the Changeling 
Way ritual that most fae came close enough to their human cousins to fully 
integrate and identify with them. Rumors and folktales quickly arose surrounding 
those families believed to be “fey-touched; some were shunned for consorting 


and power. Many Kithain further speculate that many of the great minds of the 
Renaissance and other important periods of history were actually kinain or 
human thinkers spurred on by faerie mentors, given the amazing insights and 
bursts of inspiration that characterize such careers. Of course, those with a taste 
for darker histories point to tales of redcap cannibal families and other nasty 
legends, and are quick to remind their fellows that faerie blood can cut both 
ways. 
In the times since the Accordance War, most kinain slipped through the 
cracks of faerie society, neither powerful or numerous enough to have a voice 
for themselves. This trend has been reversing somewhat of late, however, as 
unrest rises in the wake of High King David’s disappearance and the signs of 
Endless Winter mount; suddenly there’s a need for every being of Glamour that 
can be found, and a deeper wisdom in the ways of the mortal world has become 
invaluable to those seeking to combat the spread of Banality. Kinain are being 
sought by their faerie cousins as never before -now the test is to see whether 
they can put aside the resentment and jealousy of their Kithain relatives that 
too many of them have endured through their lives. 
Heritage 
Perhaps the biggest single influence in a kinain’s life is her heritage, or 
faerie ancestry - 
it can mean the difference between a stubborn and bulldog- 
faced redcap kin and a graceful and dignified sidhe kin, or for that matter a 
tough and courageous redcap kin and a willowy and arrogant sidhe kin. About 
1520% of kinain are born from one changeling parent, while 40-50% of the 
children of two changelings are changelings themselves. Faerie blood is 
notoriously fickle, however, and has been known to skip an entire generation 
only to manifest stronger than ever in the one following it, so there’s no 
guarantee that any particular child will manifest faerie blood until they’re 
actually exposed to Glamour for the first time. 
The vast majority of kinain draw their ancestry from one kith, though it 
is not unheard of for some to be the product of two or more kiths interbreeding, 
and some of the rarest kinain display traits and features of kiths thought to be 
extinct or even ones never before seen by the Kithain. The details of these last 
and most exquisitely rare kinain should be worked out with the Storyteller 
(especially if the player wishes to take the Honored Birthrights, Mark ofthe Blood 
or Inherited Frailty Traits for their character). As some substantial physical 
features and, more importantly, mental quirks are often inherited from a 
kinain’s heritage, it is important to have a sense of her ancestry early on. What’s 
more, different kiths have different views on those who share their blood, and 
the prejudices they have often carry over to how the kinain comes to view the 
Dreaming as a whole. 
The following is a brief list of some common physical and mental features 
shared by kinain of similar heritage. It should not be considered a straitjacket 


Y 
. ,  
their full-blooded relatives, and how their faerie blood most frequently manifests. 
Boggan - 
Most boggan kinain share their cousins’ small stature and 
disposition to help others in need, though some develop their Unseelie cousins’ 
spiteful streak, especially when their help is spurned or the aided party proves 
ungrateful. Most have nimble fingers and good hands, and find employment 
that caters to this talent. Boggans love working with their kinain relatives and 
are typically very nurturing and supportive of them; many actually take them 
on as apprentices alongside their regular changeling charges. What’s more, 
since many boggans are the de facto “den mothers” of Kithain society, they 
typically wind up looking after kinain of other heritages as well. Thus, many 
kinain grow to feel as close (or closer) to these boggans as they do to their own 
kind. 
Eshu - 
It is perhaps all too common for eshu kinain to grow up never 
knowing one or both of their true parents; correspondingly, most eshu kinain 
are highly independent from a very early age, and in their teens and college 
years come to regard the words “road trip” with enthusiasm and no little 
reverence. Runaways are also common, though more from curiosity than any 
ill will or abuse. Fortunately, their eshu heritage often blesses these kinain with 
a good sense of style and an even better voice, so most manage to make their 
way as actors or performers after a few wild years, though even then many can 
never give up the road completely. Most striking of all, however, are their eyes 
-the stronger the blood, the darker they are, with small flecks of silver or gold 
appearing in those of the purest blood. For their part, eshu tend to judge their 
kin as they meet them, but even the most kindly Seelie eshu truly respects only 
those kinain who can keep up with their wandering ways without complaint. 
Clurichaun - 
Most clurichaun kinain are of solidly Irish descent, and 
their features typically bear testament to that fact. Many have a love of music 
rivaled only by the satyr kinain, and their powerful, resonant voices seem 
especially suited for ballads, making them sought-after performers of traditional 
pieces. A love of the color green runs strong in this line as well, and few kinain 
leave home without at least one green item or article of clothing on their person 
as a good luck charm. Often raised alongside each other in close-knit families 
and neighborhoods, clurichauns and their kinain typically recognize few 
distinctions between themselves, and in their fondness for each other both 
sides go out of their way to make sure their “siblings” are included in their 
singing and carousing. 
Ghille dhu -Nearly as rare as their full-blooded relatives, most ghille dhu 
kinain are raised in secluded wilderness communities, often on farms or 
homesteads far away from their neighbors where they can be at peace with the 
nature they love. They dislike cities, rarely visit them and seldom live anywhere 
more populated than the farthest outskirts of the suburbs. Physically, most of 
these kinain have unkempt dark hair that actively defies efforts to comb or 
brush it, and their skin tends to keep adeep tan year round no matter where they 


exchange for aid in their hunting and farming efforts, since the acute sensitivity 
ghille dhu have to Banality makes them phobic of interacting with humans too 
often. Even with their own kin, however, the ghille dhu are notoriously 
reclusive, and so such arrangements are more of a mutual assistance pact than 
a truly close relationship. 
Nocker - 
Pity the poor nocker kinain, for not only do many of them 
inherit the pale skin, flushed cheeks and cherry noses of their fae relatives, but 
no few find themselves on the same quest for perfection (and are about as close 
as their cousins to attaining it), with tempers and profanity to match. Given 
their sour dispositions, most nockers also tend to see humans as overgrown 
helper monkeys at best, useless fodder at worst, forcing their kinain to develop 
a thick skin, quick fingers and a quicker wit from an early age. However, those 
who match quips with their relatives and display some proficiency at crafting 
and tinkering can eventually become a valued and even respected part of a 
nocker community, though defending themselves and their work had better 
become second nature if they wish to survive the daily grind of nocker 
relationships. 
Piskey - 
Like the eshu, piskey wanderlust often keeps them absent from 
the early lives of their kinain; unlike the eshu, however, most piskies actively 
search out possible kinain children when they come of a certain age to see if they 
have manifested their Faerie Blood. Those who do are introduced to the piskey 
community in a joyous ceremony that draws members of this kith from far and 
wide, and they are thereafter treated as full members of the Kithain family. 
Piskey kinain tend to be small and thin, with bright eyes and nimble hands; 
those with a high degree of the blood may also manifest the slender pointed ears 
of their cousins. They are good with children and tend toward jobs that allow 
them to work with them whenever possible: nanny, teacher, camp counselor 
and so on. 
Pooka - 
As diverse as their Kithain relatives, pooka kinain all tend to 
have a slightly animalistic cast to their features, which usually gives them a 
peculiar cute quality to the mortals around them. Of course, those with strong 
Unseelie blood or who have an affinity for a less attractive animal such as a bat 
or a pig may find that these features have exactly the opposite effect. Regardless 
of their animal affinity, pooka kinain love words and wordplay, and prefer jobs 
that allow them to play with language; their personal speaking habits are often 
described as “coloTfCI1)) at best, and many are considered harmless-but-compulsive 
liars by those who know them. These kinain are regarded with a mix of 
playfulness and sadness by their faerie cousins, for the two understand each 
other as few outsiders do and love pulling pranks and goofing off together, but 
ultimately the pooka pity them for their inability to take animal form, while 
those kinain who are aware of this talent often harbor a deep envy for their fae 
cousins. 


begin with, redcap kinain get the short end of the stick from both worlds, and 
most of them know it. Physically these kinain tend toward short, stocky builds, 
with large mouths full of prominent teeth and pale, nearly gray complexions. 
Their talent, no, love for profanity and abuse is likewise legendary, and so most 
tend to take jobs where they can vent their displeasure on others without fear 
of consequence - 
bouncer, boxer, drill instructor, etc. Most noticeable of all, 
of course, is what redcaps themselves call the true “mark of the blood” - 
red 
hair. All redcap kinain have it, no matter how distant they may be from their 
fae cousins; it simply grows brighter as the blood gets stronger. And while they 
cannot digest truly inedible objects like their full-blooded relatives, these 
kinain have proverbial cast-iron stomachs and the palates of billy goats. 
Perhaps most frightening for society at large, however, is the fact that redcaps 
and their kinain get along famously; once a kinain has proven their strength 
and ability to run with the gang, both sides party together often and come to 
the other’s aid without hesitation should the need arise. 
Satyr - 
“95% of what satyr kinain inherit is hair,” or so the kith joke goes, 
and it certainly does seem true on the surface: female kinain have long, 
beautiful, flowing hair, while males tend to be quite hirsute, with full beards and 
shaggy, tangled locks. Many also receive the booming laugh and beautiful 
singing voice of their faerie relatives, however, not to mention some of their 
social appetites - 
satyr kinain are incorrigible party animals from an early age, 
always out looking for a good time. Given a spotlight, they gladly ham it up. 
They tend to have quick tempers, though not as bad as their full-blooded 
cousins, but are quick to forgive an offense as well. Since they also tend to 
shower their friends (new and old) with affection most people find it hard to 
carry a grudge against them for very long. Careers in music are common for 
these kinain, as are stints in professional athletics, but whatever they do, they 
are noted for their passion. Satyrs love fraternizing with their kin, feeling that 
they are among the select few who can withstand a good goat party; deeper 
relationships are a bit harder to come by, but those kinain whoprove themselves 
able to cast aside their inhibitions and have a good time may eventually be 
invited to join a trago (satyr motley), at which point they truly become family 
for life. 
Selkie - 
Given that they must pass on their seal coats to worthy heirs in 
order to continue the kith, selkies are typically quite close to their kinain, since 
these relatives are often considered natural candidates to receive a particular 
selkie’s coat. A selkie kinain who is given the gift of another selkie’s seal coat 
is treated as a regular, full-blooded selkie from that day forth; see the previous 
“Joining the Family” section about the effects of this transformation. Even 
those who do not eventually join the kith share the same love of the ocean and 
the shoreline as their fae relatives do, however, and it is unheard of for them to 
live more than an hour or two away from the sea. They may not waste away as 
directly as their cousins do when away from the water, but the loss of the ocean 


alongside their Kithain relatives as sailors, divers and marine biologists in order 
to ensure that they need never give up the sea for long. Most share the slightly 
weathered but still attractive looks of their cousins, with sandy hair, deep tans 
and bright, playful eyes. On land, they tend to favor clothes as casual as their 
outlook, yet they still have a certain grace that allows them to pull off this style. 
Sidhe - 
Sidhe kinain find themselves in a curious place; their great beauty 
and innate nobility easily puts them in the top 1% of most mortal societies, yet 
their faerie kin often look down on them as lessers and assign them the most 
menial or inconsequential titles and duties within a household (for sidhe, 
anyway - 
these kinain are still usually a step or two up from commoners, 
though most don’t realize it). The exact treatment varies from house to house 
- 
Liam and Fiona are notably more egalitarian with their kinain than Eiluned 
and Gwydion nobles, for example - 
but as a rule, no matter how beautiful or 
successful they are, most sidhe kinain never feel like they quite measure up to 
their relatives, a frustrating fact to face for these proud kinain. Still, it is sidhe 
blood in their veins, however diluted it may be, and anyone who dares call one 
“mongrel” or “half-elf” to his face is bound to see just how much of the terrifying 
wrath of his ancestors he’s inherited. Indeed, what makes the matter even more 
inscrutable to most kinain and even many changelings is that sidhe kinain are 
still incredibly attractive by the standards of both worlds: perfect bodies, 
gorgeous hair, fine features, and (in those with stronger blood) slightly pointed 
ears or eyes of a striking color, especially blue-violet or green-gold. The less 
ethereal nature of their features is even more attractive to some fae, compared 
to the almost alien beauty of their relatives, which of course only spurs haughty 
sidhe to further snub their kinain cousins. 
Sluagh - 
It is often debated (no less among the sluagh than anyone else) 
whether sluagh kinain are better or worse off than their faerie cousins. On one 
hand, they are spared some of the worst gloominess and extremes their relatives 
must endure, which most consider a blessing. On the other hand, they often 
receive a good dose of their looks and outlook from their Kithain relations, 
without receiving the sensory or cultural benefits the sluagh have developed to 
compensate for them. While not as cadaverous as true sluagh, most of these 
kinain are still quite thin and pale, with delicate features, soft voices, slightly 
sunken eyes and a strong distaste for bright lights or loud noises. Many have a 
deep love of poetry, history and antiquity, and prefer occupations that give 
them plenty of time alone to contemplate their solitary passions. Some, 
however, gravitate toward the more morbid aspects of their ancestry and 
become obsessed with death and the occult, often joining the club scene or 
Goth subculture simply to revel in the dark ambiance they find there. For their 
part, sluagh respect the fact that most of their kinain simply desire be left alone, 
though from time to time particularly intelligent or interesting kinain receive 
invitations to High Tea with their relatives; those who attend learn much and 
invariably find themselves feeling curiously at home, if only for a time. 


at least some of the great size and strength of their faerie cousins, and quite a 
few of them possess the Huge Size Merit. Also like their relatives, they can 
typically be found in jobs where they can put this advantage to use: police 
officer, construction worker and athlete are some of the most popular professions, 
but by no means the only ones. Few become bullies or otherwise abuse their size, 
however. The traditions of fairness and justice that the Kithain readily identify 
with their cousins seem to be genetically passed on to these kinain as well, and 
most are the very essence of the proverbial “gentle giant.” When innocents are 
threatened or their trust is violated, however, even those troll kinain of Seelie 
descent become forces to be reckoned with, and those who know them well 
learn to stay out of their way when they see a wrong that needs righting. Nordic 
blood still runs strong among these kinain, meaning many have the fair hair and 
strong physiques of their ancestors, but as a rule the only real qualities they all 
have in common are their great size and sense of honor. 
Existing as they do in a shadow world between faerie society and the 
mundane world, it is not surprising that kinain have developed a number of 
unusual advantages to help them cope with the task ofbalancing the two. Some 
of these Backgrounds (like Feth Fiada or Faerie Blood) are innate, reflecting the 
power that faerie ancestry has bestowed on those fortunate enough to have it; 


others, like Dross or Faerie Mentor, reflect something that the kinain has to work 
at if they wish to retain their edge. Needless to say, most of these Backgrounds 
are unique to kinain - 
their full-blooded cousins have enough advantages 
already! With the Storyteller’s permission, Dross and Feth Fiada may be taken 
by Kithain characters, but the others are solely kinain territory. 
All Kithain Backgrounds (including those new ones in this book) are also 
available to kinain during character creation, with the following exceptions: 
Dreamers is essentially replaced by Dross, Mentor by Faerie Mentor, and 
Remembrance is solely the domain of full changelings. Holdings, Patron and 
Political Connections are forbidden without express permission of the Storyteller, 
as they require the kind of intimate knowledge of fae society that few kinain 
have or are entrusted with by their faecousins. Likewise, while some exceptional 
kinain are awarded the Title of squire, they must prove themselves truly 
extraordinary assets to the Kithain first, and no kinain has been awarded a Title 
higher than knight for centuries - 
such an honor would require deeds of 
legendary prowess. 
Dross 
By hard work, inheritance or simple happenstance, you have managed to 
come by a fairly regular supply of dross, or Glamour in physical form. This can 
be almost anything you can imagine - 
a faerie glade with magic mushrooms, 
a comic book store full of wacky old memorabilia, an abandoned house with an 
eccentric library, etc. Every level of this Background allows you to “harvest” 
one Glamour Trait worth of dross in the same fashion as the Dreamers 
Background, should you need a quick Glamour fix during a session or desire to 


present. This may not be used more times per week than you have levels in the 
Background, however, or you risk overtaxing your source and possibly even 
depleting it permanently. Since it is often very difficult for kinain to refresh 
their own limited Glamour supply, this reserve of Glamour can be invaluable 
if you wish to use cantrips regularly, and having a dross supply can give you some 
“coin of the realm” to trade with Kithain, but you must be careful to guard the 
source of your dross supply, lest greedy fae or even other kinain try to steal it for 
themselves. 
Faerie Blood 
This Background measures how strong a faerie ancestry a particular kinain 
has, which in turn determines how close she is to the Dreaming and generally 
how powerful her personal Glamour is. In times past, there were a small number 
of families with strong fae ancestry, who were often very close to the Kithain 
around them. But as populations moved and mingled, this has become the 
exception rather than the rule. Those with one or two levels of Faerie Blood 
have a mere glimmer offae ancestry, perhaps inherited from kinain grandparents 
or a full fae ancestor several generations back; those with three or four levels of 
this Background are noticeably kinain, perhaps with a changeling grandparent 
or a family with a long history of breeding true -most kinain who stay active 
in Kithain society have at least this degree of ancestry. Those rare and treasured 
kinain with five levels of Faerie Blood are very nearly fae themselves, and are 
usually born of at least one changeling parent; many are brought up around 
Kithain society to some degree and can develop great gifts of their own given 
time and training. It should be noted, however, that faerie blood is also highly 
capricious by nature, almost as if to openly flout the notion of pedigrees and 
Banal genetic science - 
it may show up strongly for three generations, be 
entirely absent the next, appear moderately after that and so on. Even two full 
changeling parents don’t necessarily guarantee a true kinain child. Kithain 
scholars believe that the inheritance of fae blood has more to do with destiny 
and the will of the Dreaming, but these are educated guesses at best. 
In game terms, this Background has several concrete effects: First, a kinain 
may never learn more levels of any Art than they have levels of this Background; 
thus, a kinain with three levels of Faerie Blood may learn up to both Basic levels 
and one Intermediate level of an Art, while a kinain with five levels of Faerie 
Blood may potentially master just about any Art (provided a teacher can be 
found, of course). Realms are unaffected by this Background, however, as they 
come naturally to any who study cantrip use. Second, the number of different 
Fae Gifts a kinain may possess is directly determined by the levels of this 
Background; a kinain with only one level of Faerie Blood may only have one Fae 
Gift, while one with four levels of Faerie Blood can have up to four Fae Gifts. 
Note that this doesn’t mean those kinain with only one or two Fae Gifts 
have to choose weak ones - 
indeed, they may manifest “strong” traits like 
Honored Birthright or Parted Mists -but 
those will be the only Gifts they have, 


Gifts both weak and strong. 
Faerie Mentor 
Identical to the regular Mentor Background, with the following exceptions: 
First, kinain must have a mentor of some kind to learn any Arts, making this 
Background all the more valuable. Mentors are assumed to be able to teach a 
kinain up to as many levels of a particular Art as levels invested in this 
Background, subject of course to the regular limit on Arts imposed by the 
kinain’s Faerie Blood Background. This means that to master most Arts (learn 
all five levels) a kinain must have both five levels of Faerie Blood as well as five 
levels of Faerie Mentor, not to mention find a changeling who has mastered the 
Art herself. Second, besides offering valuable advice and lore about Kithain 
society, most mentors are also the ones to sponsor the kinain in the local court. 
Without someone vouching for and looking after them, many kinain have little 
recourse in the eyes of Kithain justice and even less of a voice at court. Finally, 
while most mentors are sincerely interested in helping their charges, there are 
a villainous few who seek to use kinain as pawns in their own particular 
schemes, and have few qualms about sacrificing such “half-breeds” to achieve 
their own ends. As few kinain are knowledgeable enough of Kithain society to 
realize these bad apples for what they really are, many kinain quickly become 
very cautious about whom they appeal to for teaching, just in case.. .. 
Feth Fiada 
Walking two worlds has some advantages, especially when one of those 
worlds belongs to the fae; kinain with this Background have a natural talent for 
going unnoticed. Records are lost, photographs come out blurry and all but the 
kinain’s close friends (or dire enemies) seem to have trouble recalling exactly 
what they look like when pressed for details. The character is considered up a 
number of Traits equal to the level of this Background on all tests related to 
stealth, secrecy and failing to leave tracks of any kind, including tests against 
any relevant supernatural powers. Needless to say, this can come in very handy 
when dealing with mortal authorities or even Prodigal foes. However, as this 
Background stems from the kinain’s connection to the chimerical world, this 
Background offers no benefits when dealing with changelings, enchanted 
mortals or chimera, all of whom can detect you just fine. This Background also 
requires a bit of discretion to function and cannot be consciously invoked; 
characters who make an effort to be inconspicuous or unobtrusive have nothing 
to worry about, but those who make a point of calling attention to themselves 
through words or deeds and then try to hide behind Feth Fiada quickly find it 
fails them (Narrator’s decision). In other words, you can’t barge into a crowded 
room, shoot someone in plain view and then expect Feth Fiada to cover you as 
you leave. On the other hand, quietly moving up to the bar, slipping poison into 
a person’s drink and then excusing yourself is right up this Background’s alley. 


Identical to the Ability as presented in The Shining Host, except that for 
kinain it is seldom something that can be actively studied or taught; it is simply 
a natural affinity they are either born with or not. Those who come from 
families with strong fae blood are often taught from a young age to watch out 
for mysterious things and develop this Background naturally, often to fairly 
high levels. Others aren’t so fortunate and have to “coax it out” by spending 
time (and Experience Traits) around the Kithain. The Storyteller has final say 
over how much of this Background represents a natural talent and how much 
it can be developed, if they allow it to be developed at all. 
Mortal aackgrounas 
One of the paradoxical strengths of being kinain is that since they are not 
so deeply rooted in Kithain society, they develop deeper ties to the mundane 
world than their chimerically inclined changeling cousins typically do. While 
this raises their Banality somewhat, it also allows them to manage things that 
their less practical fae relatives often forget, such as finances or influential 
mortal friendships. Many kinain actively seek out such positions of influence 
in the mortal world for just this reason. Since they cannot help in many areas 
of chimerical importance, they reason, they might as well tend to those 
mundane concerns that their fae cousins are unwilling or unable to handle. 
These Backgrounds are otherwise purchased and treated exactly as regular 
Backgrounds. 
Kithain characters may purchase these Backgrounds during character 
creation as well. Such fae are simply more attuned to the mundane world than 
most of their peers. 
Allies 
A few close friends help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few 
calls and cut a few deals to get assistance in a wide range of activities. Your 
Storyteller will probably require you to define how you maintain relationships 
with your allies. Each Ally Trait possessed represents one person that you can 
call on for aid. Unlike Influence, your Allies have special talents that make them 
better than the average person on the street. Though an Ally may not 
necessarily be aware of your faerie nature, he or she can still be quite useful if 
properly directed. In general, your Allies do not show up directly in play. 
Instead, you can use an Ally for certain services between play sessions, by 
notifying your Storyteller: 
An Ally can be directed to follow up on research or activities that you 
have started. If you previously undertook a specific task, like tailing someone, 
researching a project or building adevice, your Ally can continue the work. The 
Ally does so with one Ability Trait’s worth of expertise. As long as the Ally 
works on the project, your Ally Trait for the individual is tied up. 


. .  
to gain access to a mortal with multiple levels of an Ability or Influence. Each 
Ally Trait that you spend after the first adds an extra level of expertise to your 
Ally. The Ally may use this expertise on your behalf only as long as you tie up 
your Ally Background Traits in this manner. 
Be wary of calling on your Allies too often. An Ally may call on you for 
mutual aid or refuse to help if pressed into dangerous or illegal activities. 
Contacts 
With the right Contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts 
of useful information. Although having an “ear to the wall” doesn’t necessarily 
provide you with good help or loyal servants, it does mean that you know who 
to ask when looking for the movers and shakers behind the scenes. In game 
terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and information. 
When you call on your Contacts, you make a few phone calls, check with likely 
snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and information as 
if possessed of a certain amount of Influence. This lets you find out exactly 
what’s going on in the city within a particular area. You can get information of 
a level equal to however many Contacts you use; if you use Contacts x 3 on 
Industry, for instance, you get information as if digging up dirt with 1ndu.sty x 
3 Influence. The advantage of Contacts is that they can be switched from place 
to place each game, getting information in different areas at your demand. 
Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require 
you to spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of a 
Storyteller. On occasion, accidents can cause Contacts in one area to dry up, 
such as a strike that affects your Indwtry Contacts, or a particularly unlucky 
astronomical conjunction sends your Occult Contacts running for the hills. 
Your Contacts generally do not function as aides or Glamour sources; that is the 
purview of the Allies and Dreamers Backgrounds. 
Example: Sean, sluaghgossip maven, has Contacts x 5. This month, his player 
Keith decides that Sean is going to begin a little political sabotage. Keith allocates 
Contacts x 3 to Politics, learning about local party leaders and the laws they’ve got 
in the works; he leaves two levels of Contacts in reserve, for life’s little emergencies. 
Next month, he plans to use his Contacts once more to find someone in the 
University community who’s willing to stage a few timely protests.. . . 
Fame 
Connected as they are to the realms of art and creativity, it’s no surprise 
that many with faerie blood have at least some exposure to the intoxicating 
world of stardom. While many shun the limelight in order to keep their natures 
secret, quite a few fae and their kin live alongside the beautiful people, assuming 
the risk of exposure and the faerie hunters it brings in order to bask in the 
Glamour that fame generates. Damn, but it’s cool to be you! 


distance than usual. Sure, if you’ve got the right Influence, you can push things 
around on a statewide or even nationwide scale, but with Fume, you can just 
make a few calls and get your Contacts, Influence or Resources exerted over a 
greater range without any impediment. Your total Fume determines your 
maximum range for unimpeded use of your Contacts, Influence and Resources. 
When you make an effort to exert your Backgrounds over a long range, you lean 
on your popularity and image, thus expending your Fume Traits until the next 
game session. Usually, Fume is used in the downtime between sessions to 
facilitate long-range plans. 
In a less-mechanical fashion, your Fume also dictates how recognizable you 
are to mortals, for one reason or another. You could be a movie star or a 
notorious criminal. Either way, the Storyteller certainly makes the effects of 
your Fume apparent, and mortals may take notice of you at bothersome times. 
You should wear a tag indicating your level of Fume so that others know of your 
distinction. Fume does have its limitations as well - 
Banality can come 
crashing down on those who fall from grace as the public considers them 
“washed up,” and Fume will do little to help you in some more serious matters 
unless you have a truly legendary reputation. Also, Fame does not always 
indicate a widespread knowledge of you; you may only be known to a subsect 
of a particular group, such as a lesser-known performer, or a recognized expert 
who’s unknown to those outside his particular field. 
Resources 
You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some 
solid resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, 
these Resources are always readily available and come to you automatically due 
to your investments, jobs and holdings. Your number of Resources Traits 
determines the amount of money and capital that you can secure. By expending 
temporary Resources Traits (which return at the next game session), you can 
draw on your regular income, as shown in the accompanying table. If you 
expend permanent Resources, you can divest yourself of holdings, allowing 
access to ten times the amount shown on the table. However, the limits ofwhat 
you can buy are always adjudicated by the Storyteller. Truly powerful uses of 
Resources are best left to downtimes and moderation between game sessions. 


Fae Gifts 
Being kinain carries certain benefits alongside the obvious ones of being 
able to take part in the enchanted world - 
many, though not all, kinain 
manifest certain beneficial quirks and talents based on their faerie heritage. 
These are known as Fae Gifts. While some of them (particularly the more 
powerful ones) are more common among those with strong faerie blood, there 
is no real rhyme or reason to how they appear. A kinain of two changeling 
parents may manifest no Gifts at all, while a kinain with a distant Kithain 
grandparent might display a powerful Gift or two. 
Though these Gifts are typically found among the kinain, and some of 
them would be useless or redundant to the Kithain, Storytellers may choose to 
let regular changelings take these Gifts as Merits of the same cost, though it is 
recommended this be restricted to those with an excellent story lest the 
uniqueness of the kinain quickly be lost. After all, full changelings have a 
number ofmore powerful advantages already- this list is a small compensation 
for their less-privileged relatives, and Storytellers make it a general list at their 
own peril. 
An-da-shealladh (2 Trait Fae Gift) 
A handy Gift indeed, this “spirit sight” allows you to see and hear chimera 
and the fae mien of changelings all the time, regardless of whether you are 
currently enchanted or not. (Changelings that are temporarily overcome by 
Banality or actively trying to hide themselves through the use of cantrips like 
Veiled Eyes still require the normal tests to perceive.) However, unless you are 
enchanted, these chimera are still nothing more than solid-looking phantoms 
to you, which means that while chimerical weapons and beasts cannot harm 
you, neither can you affect them, as quickly becomes clear when you can’t cross 


- 
_ _  
a chimerical bridge or ride a chimerical mount. You also can’t always tell i 
155 
something is a chimera or not, so kinain with this Gift are advised to check 
carefully when they encounter anything particularly odd. Narrators should take 
care that characters with this Gift are always mindful of the fact that they 
cannot interact with chimera at all unless enchanted; this ranges from minor 
annoyances like not being able to close doors or pick up wine glasses to major 
problems like not being able to pick up a chimerical sword to help a comrade 
in danger. 
Bardic Gift (1-5 Trait Fae Gift) 
Most artists aspire to touch their audiences in even the smallest way, but 
your performances can reach deeper than most mortals ever dream of, stirring 
chords in the very souls of your subjects. You have a deep connection to the 
artistic tradition of the fae running through your veins and can tap it to produce 
amazing results when the need arises. Traditionally, this Gift is employed 
through singing or playing an instrument, but those are not the only mediums 
it can be employed through: Poetry, dancing, oration, writing and acting are all 
possibilities as well. The only limitation is that it must be a live performance 
for this Gift to take effect. Videotapes, audio recordings or even live broadcasts 
of your work may still be artistically powerful, but do not carry the magical 
effects of this Gift. Likewise, if your Burdic Gift is expressed in written or 
illustrated form (such as painting or sketching), only copies done by your hand 
can carry the power of the Gift; even photocopies or faithful recreations fail to 
convey the magic, and the Narrator is within her rights to limit the number of 
copies of a particular work you can make or the number of times it can be read 
before this Gift no longer applies. In the case of paintings or other “static” art, 
you are also required to be actively showing off the artwork to activate the 
power of this Gift - 
you cannot simply leave a painting with the Serain of 
Slumber magic on the wall as a knockout trap, for example. Use common sense 
to determine when this Gift applies or what artistic mediums may be used for 
a particular strain, and always favor art and game ambiance over the wishes of 
those who would abuse their Burdic Gift to dominate those around them. 
For each level of this Gift, you may select one of the powers below to use 
with your Burdic Gift - 
each use of these powers requires a performance of your 
chosen artistic talent, plus a Social Test against those you wish to affect. You 
may retest with the appropriate PerfomuLnceor Expression Abilities. Furthermore, 
you are considered a number of Traits up on this test equal to the levels spent 
on Burdic Gift. Against most mortal audiences, a single test against the person 
with the highest Social Traits is usually sufficient, but with audiences of 
supernatural beings or players’ characters, the normal mob scene rules for 
multiple targets should be used. In the case of written or illustrated work, you 
may affix a card to the work detailing the power used and the number of Traits 
the target must defeat in a test to avoid suffering its effects; the target must 
conduct this test with a Narrator after reading or viewing the work. Needless 
to say, those unable to experience the performance (blind, deaf, solidly 


discretion, Kithain and Prodigals may spend a Willpower Trait to ignore the 
effects of Bardic Gift, but mortals are generally helpless in the performer’s power. 
StrainofSoothing-This power allows you to lull your audience into a state 
of pleasant contentment, cooling hot tempers and making everyone feel at 
home with those around them. It does not bury old feuds completely but makes 
everyone more likely to work things out instead of fighting. All attempts at 
friendly Social tests are one Trait up for the rest of the scene. Targets must win 
or tie a Simple Test to resort to violence or even harsh language, though they 
may defend themselves normally. 
Strain of Laughter - 
People start rolling in the aisles when this power is 
invoked; targets are all but paralyzed with fits of laughter at your performance, 
and will not respond to anything but a direct threat for a number of turns equal 
to your permanent Glamour rating. This is especially useful for making 
someone or something the target of ridicule - 
or for providing a quick escape 
from those with a taste for kinain flesh. 
Strain of Consciousness - 
Your performances are quite literally thought- 
provoking and leave your audiences actively pondering the topics or emotions 
raised by your performance. Your audience also feels mentally refreshed and 
clear-headed, their intellect focused and their thoughts clear. Audience 
members are one Trait up on all Mental Tests for the next hour and give serious 
consideration to the issues raised in your performance, often to the point of 
debating them with others they come across for the rest of the scene. 
Strain of Ire -A consummate rabble-rouser, you can spark righteous fury 
in your audiences. Noble kinain use this talent to stir up dissent against tyrants 
or social injustices, although there are also rumors of malicious kinain using this 
to incite violence. Targets voice anger and distrust against the subject of your 
performance and resist violently if attempts are made to suppress their fury. This 
power lasts for one scene, at which point the audience’s anger dissipates unless 
events again fan the flames. Take note, however, that unless the targets are 
already somehow predisposed to violence, they generally limit their actions to 
words and some petty vandalism unless further provoked- this power does not 
generate an instant riot, though a riled crowd may certainly head in that 
direction if they encounter appropriate opposition. Note also that this power, 
while potent, also quickly gets the kinain in serious trouble with local nobles or 
mortal authorities, so discretion is advised if the performer intends to avoid a 
long jail sentence (or worse). 
Strain ofLove -A master of flirtation and seduction, you can use your art 
to put targets “in the mood” and otherwise spread the joys of love. Those 
schooled in the Strain of Love can often find employment in noble courts as 
minstrels and go+betweens for all kinds of lovers. While not nearly as strong as 
the satyr Gift of Pan Birthright, a successful use of this Gift can still soften even 
a hard-hearted target to the delights of romance, and those already predisposed 
to love become positively giddy at the slightest hint of romantic activity. 


Strain of Sorrow - 
Tugging on the heartstrings is second nature to you. 
With a successful use of this power, targets of your performance are overcome 
by hysterical weeping and are essentially incapacitated in the same way and for 
the same duration as those under the effects of the Strain of Laughter (above). 
What’s more, even after the crying passes they become very sympathetic to the 
subject of the performance and/or you for the remainder of the scene, and more 
than one kinain has thus used this power to win a reprieve for a condemned 
friend or escape a harsh sentence themselves. 
Strain of Slumber - 
You must possess at least two levels of the Bardic Gift 
before this power can be chosen (that is, the earliest you can select it is as your 
third level of this Gift). Targets fall into a deep, enchanted sleep for a number 
of minutes equal to your permanent Glamour Traits. During this time, nothing 
short of violence - 
including forcefully shaking a target - 
awakens them, 
though they awaken immediately if outright attacked (and thus can defend 
themselves normally). 
Strain of Truth - 
This can only be the fifth (final) level of the Bar& Gift 
a character possesses; this strain is too powerful to be learned without first 
mastering a number of lesser uses of this Gift. Targets are absolutely convinced 
that whatever you are telling them is true and remain so for the rest of the scene, 
or perhaps longer, depending on what you tell them and how gullible they are. 
What’s more, if the most discriminating of audiences (i.e., the Narrator) deems 
your performance particularly exceptional, you can even achieve a limited form 
of Rapture. You must make a Glamour Test against seven Traits- if successful, 
you gain a temporary Glamour Trait for every level of Performance or Expression 
you currently possess. 
Empowered (3 or 5 Trait Fae Gift) 
Most kinain are incapable of enchanting themselves and thus rely on their 
changeling associates to draw them into their hidden world. For whatever 
reason, however, you are an exception and may enchant yourself by creating 
tokens infused with your own Glamour. The enchantment carried by these 
tokens lasts for the normal amount of time a regular token would enchant you, 
but you may create tokens only for yourself. Other kinain and mortals must fend 
for themselves. This gives you something of an edge when dealing with the 
enchanted world, since you do not need to rely entirely on the Kithain to bring 
you over, but you may well be greeted with suspicion by certain fae, especially 
nobles, who keep close track of those who can enter the chimerical realm. 
Naturally, you must retain enough memory of the chimerical world to remember 
what creating a token would mean if you want to create a working token, so 
beware the Mists, since you cannot enchant yourself if you don’t remember the 
chimerical world at all! In addition, given the difficulty kinain have in 


emergency, lest you exhaust your Glamour supply too quickly. 
If you purchase the five-Trait version of this Gift, your tokens may be used 
enchant others as well. Remember, you are considered responsible for the 
actions of those you enchant during their time in the chimerical world, 
accidental or otherwise, and Kithain justice can be swift for those whose guests 
bring harm to the local Dreaming. Be very careful whom you grant the “gift” of 
enchantment.. .. 
Fith-Fath (1-5 Trait Fae Gift) 
With this minor invocation of the Mists, kinain can disappear from sight 
for short periods of time. This invisibility is considered identical to a Veiled Eyes 
cantrip. Fith-Fath requires one or more Glamour Traits and a test of the kinain’s 
permanent Glamour rating against the highest Banality present (which may 
well be her own); she is considered to be up a number of Traits equal to the 
amount of Glamour Traits spent on this Gift for the purposes of this test. A test 
must still be performed even if the kinain is the only character present. This 
invisibility lasts for one minute per permanent Glamour Trait outside of 
combat or other stressful situations, but fails immediately if the kinain enters 
combat or otherwise interacts with her environment. Most mortals are 
completely oblivious to the character’s presence, although many Prodigals and 
faerie hunters guard against this type of deception. 
Honored Birthrights (5 Trait Fae Gift) 
One of the rarest and most powerful Fae Gifts of all, a kinain with this Gift 
has inherited the full Birthrights of his faerie heritage, including all bonus 
Traits and other benefits they might offer. (If your heritage stems from more 
than one kith, choose one each time this Gift is purchased.) Thus, a pooka 
kinain can shapechange and win his way into the hearts of others, eshu kinain 
weave exceptional tales and are always in the right place at the right time, and 
so on. If a Birthright requires interaction with chimera or other elements of the 
Dreaming, such as the chimera creation abilities of the nockers, a kinain can 
only employ that Birthright when enchanted. This should be viewed as a way 
of representing a strong faerie heritage, not a way to mix and match the best 
possible collection of Birthrights, and Storyteller permission as well as an 
excellent character concept is always required before this Gift can be taken more 
than once. Note: You do not suffer from the Frailties of your heritage unless you 
take the Fae Mark Inherited Frailty. 
Nine Lives (4 Trait Fae Gift) 
Maybe you’re descended from legendary heroes, or perhaps you refuse to 
believe that chimera can deal you lasting damage; regardless of the reasoning 
behind it, chimerical death doesn’t faze you much. When killed in chimerical 
combat, you are considered to have a Banality of 1 for determining how long 
you remain unconscious and how much you remember upon waking, regardless 
of your actual Banality rating. This means that you are out cold for only an hour, 


of your “death.”The only catch is that you can-do this up to a total of nine times 
during the chronicle (not story or session), at which point this Gift is exhausted 
and you suffer the effects of chimerical death normally. This Gift is also 
canceled if your permanent Banality ever reaches 10. Each time your character 
suffers chimerical death, you must report it to the Storyteller, who then 
scratches one from your nine; failure to do so is cheating, plain and simple. 
Parted Mists (5 Trait Fae Gift) 
Another rare and incredibly useful Gift, you have somehow inherited a 
complete immunity to the memory-fogging effects of the Mists, allowing you to 
remember with perfect clarity everything you experienced while enchanted. 
You may still be killed in chimerical combat, and if so you remain unconscious 
for the normal time dictated by your permanent Banality Traits, but once you 
awaken your memory of the fae is as good as ever. This allows you to move in 
and out of changeling society very easily since you don’t suffer from amnesia 
every time you cross back into the mundane world, but this limited immunity 
to the Mists also makes you potentially a very dangerous enemy of the fae as 
well. You can be sure that the fae will be quick to silence you if you prove 
disloyal, as you are too great a risk to be allowed to turn Dauntain. 
Riastradh (5 Trait Fae Gift) 
Most common to redcap and troll kinain, you have developed the 
legendary battle frenzy of ancient warriors past, making you a frightening foe 
in chimerical combat. To invoke the R i a s d h ,  you must spend a Glamour Trait 
and a full turn mentally preparing yourselffor combat. Once those requirements 
are met, you are considered two Traits up on all combat tests, both attacking 
and defending, provided you attack with a chimerical weapon or attack of some 
kind. Other forms of physical combat put you up only one Trait. This battle lust 
has a powerful disadvantage as well: Once the frenzy is entered, you cannot 
withdraw from battle until either you or your opponent are dead and a clear 
victor can be determined. Despite the rage involved, friends and bystanders are 
safe from you while you’re in this frenzy state, but the R i a s t r d  cannot be 
brokenshort ofmeeting the aforementioned conditions or spending a Willpower 
Trait. Upon leaving the battle frenzy you are weakened and suffer a one-Trait 
penalty on all actions until you have rested for at least a solid half-hour. 
Second Sight (1-5 Trait Fae Gift) 
You are touched by the future and catch glimpses of it in dreams and 
visions. While never as certain or specific as other people wish you would be, 
you have learned how to read your visions (for the most part) and can often 
glean valuable information from them. Generally, you have little control over 
the visions - 
indeed, they seem to visit you when you least expect or desire 
them - 
but in times of need you can try to coax these instincts to the surface. 
Any time you wish to try this, you may expend a level of this Gift and ask the 
Storyteller for a Simple Test; if you win, you receive a brief vision that imparts 
some insight on your current situation or the near future surrounding it. This 


stumped on what courses of action might be the best to pursue. You may only 
do this a number of times per story (not per session) equal to the number of 
Traits spent on this Gift. After that, it’s considered used up until the next story. 
Most of the time, however, this Gift is not used this directly but comes into play 
through the Storyteller granting you dreams and visions about events to come. 
Needless to say, clever Storytellers will use this opportunity to pass on all 
manner of hints, clues and foreshadowing. The farthest you can see into the 
future is generally limited to one year per level of this Background, though this 
is far from a concrete restriction and may be waived at the Storyteller’s 
discre tion. 
Spearman’s Shield (1-5 Trait Fae Gift) 
You’ve lived the majority of your life without any danger from chimerical 
sources. Why should they bother you now? Due to your great bravery and deep- 
seated belief in chimera as “lesser” threats to your health and welfare, you are 
highly resistant to chimerical damage -for each level of this Gift you possess, 
you may ignore one level of chimerical damage done to you, regardless of the 
source. It simply doesn’t touch you at all. Once you have used a level of this Gift 
this way, however, it’s gone for the rest of the story (not session). The only way 
to refresh the Shield before then is to spend a Willpower Trait; this quickly 
exhausts your spiritual reserves and can be performed only once per session, and 
then only when the threat ofharm is looming overhead. Furthermore, since the 
Shield is an expression of your bravery and determination, it ceases to function 
immediately if you ever run out of Willpower Traits. Likewise, if you fall victim 
to a cantrip or similar power that causes fear or uncertainty, you lose the Shield 
for the duration of that power. It should also be noted that Speamn’s Shield 
doesn’t protect against physical damage of any kind, but it does protect against 
cantrips and other Glamour uses that cause real physical damage such as the 
Pyretics Art. 
Taghairm (2 Trait Fae Gift) 
Be it a blessing or a curse, you have the ability to call to the spirits of the 
dead and speak to them. While they are under no particular obligation to do 
what you ask or even heed your call in the first place, most spirits are at least 
curious to meet with someone who can hear them, and many are more than 
willing to spy on others or give advice in exchange for a few favors in the lands 
of the living. Some can even use their ghostly powers to assist you, though great 
care is advised when bargaining with such powerful spirits, as they can just as 
easily turn those powers against you if they desire, and ghosts have nothing but 
time toplot revenge on those who wrong them. Naturally, aNarrator or perhaps 
even other players with wraith characters need to be contacted for this Gift to 
be used, and regardless of how friendly or helpful the local wraiths are, you must 
remember that the Restless Dead never do anything for free - 
there’s always 
a price. 
Taibhsear ( 1 Trait Fae Gift) 


especially for childling kinain, as many wraiths are at least mildly disturbing in 
appearance and most of the time the kinain are the only ones in the area who can 
see them at all. This Gift also confers no ability to perceive chimera; that is the 
domain of the An-da-sheaUadhGift. If a wraith is riding a living body-commonly 
known as possession -or 
attempting to hide itself with supernatural powers, the 
kinain can only perceive it by first winning a Mental Test (no Traits risked for 
either side). Still, as frightening as it may be sometimes, the ability to perceive the 
Restless Dead can have a number of uses, not the least of which being knowing 
which rundown houses to avoid after dark! 
Weakened Mists (1-3 Trait Fae Gift) 
For one reason or another, the Mists do not cloud your mind as strongly as 
they do for most kinain. For each level of this Gift, subtract one from your 
effective Banality rating (to a minimum Banality of 1) when determining the 
length of time spent recovering from chimerical “death” and how much the 
Mists cloud your memory of chimerical encounters. Thus, you tend to bounce 
back faster from chimerical damage than most kinain, and remember more of 
what you have seen while enchanted. Note that this doesn’t lower your actual 
Banality in any other way, nor does it prevent you from gaining Banality during 
the course of play, but it does make life easier when dealing with (or recovering 
from) the nastier side of chimerical encounters. 
Of course, every gift comes with some price attached, and the numerous 
quirks and legendary weaknesses of the fae often manifest in those with their 
blood as well. While they tend to show up in those kinain with a higher degree 
of fae blood, especially those with the more powerful Fae Gifts, unfortunately 
that’s not always the case, and some hapless kinain even wind up with the 
drawbacks of their heritage without any real Gifts to show for it. Characters 
with Fae Marks have manifested some of the worst qualities or luck associated 
with their faerie ancestors, and like it or not it’s unlikely to ever change much. 
Unlike the Fae Gifts, which can sometimes be chosen as Flaws by full 
Kithain, these traits tend to be very specific to the unique status of the kinain 
and thus off-limits to regular changelings unless the Storyteller specifically 
permits them. 
Enchanted Blood (1 Trait Fae Mark) 
All kinain technically have fae blood in their veins, but for some reason 
yours carries a level of Glamour normally found solely in Kithain; this doesn’t 
generally mean much except that any vampires who feed from you suffer the 
normal side effects as if they had imbibed the blood of a full changeling. (See 
Lawsof theNight, page 262, for fulldetailson thedeleteriouseffectsofKindred 


seek yourlblood for all manner of’twisted experiments, should word of your 
unusual vintage become known in the supernatural community. Needless to 
say, such groups can easily pose a threat to you and those around you, and most 
have little problem with the idea of stealing it from a “mere” mortal such as 
yourself. The Storyteller may disallow this Mark in games that have little or no 
interaction with Kindred or others with an unhealthy interest in fae blood. 
Inherited Frailty (5 Trait Fae Mark) 
Call it a star-crossed birth, wry twist of fate or simply rotten luck, but 
whatever the reason might be, you have inherited the worst aspects of your fae 
relatives - 
their Frailties. Thus, redcap kinain have horrible social skills, eshu 
kinain are extremely reckless, and satyr kinain are prone to wild mood swings. 
You have all the Frailties of your faerie heritage, including any Negative Traits 
or other game mechanics they might entail; if your heritage stems from more 
than one kith, you must select which kith‘s Frailties you have inherited when 
this Mark is chosen. If a Frailty deals exclusively with the enchanted world, then 
it only applies when you are enchanted, but that certainly makes for a nasty 
surprise every time you cross into chimerical reality! The Narrator should make 
sure the full effects of these Frailties are enforced during play, and players should 
remember that many Frailties may make a kinain’s mortal life quite difficult. For 
example, a pooka kinain who lies compulsively will have trouble holding down 
an honest job, though a career in politics isn’t a bad idea. 
You do not gain the Birthrights of your heritage unless you take the Fae Gift 
Honored Birthrights. This also does not mean that you physically resemble your 
fae heritage- that’s the province of the Mark ofthe Blood Mark, below, though 
combining the two is certainly highly appropriate. 
Iron’s Curse (2 Trait Fae Mark) 
Most kinain aren’t nearly as sensitive to cold iron as full Kithain are, but 
you have no such luck - 
the mere sight of iron makes you uncomfortable, and 
you are at a one-Trait penalty from pain and distraction while in direct contact 
with the hated metal. What’s more, you cannot gain Glamour (through 
Rapture or enchantment) while in contact with iron, and you generally won’t 
stand for it being used or stored anywhere near you, even if you happen to be 
one of the Dauntain. 
Mark of the Blood (1-5 Trait Fae Mark) 
The bane of kinain who seek to hide their natures, this Mark represents an 
obvious physical characteristic (or characteristics) that clearly announces your 
faerie heritage to the world at large. This can be represented by several existing 
Flaws from The Shining Host - 
Huge Size, Short and Changeling’s Eyes are a 
few examples, but by no means the only ones - 
or some entirely new deformity. 
The value of this Mark depends on how obvious the characteristic is: pointed 
ears, excessive body hair, a slight tint to your hair or skin or similar “minor” 
features would be worth one or two Traits, since they are relatively easy to 


“reasonable” explanation and give it no more than a few odd stares afterward. 
By contrast, four- or five-Trait Marks are blatantly fantastic: cloven hooves 
instead of feet, pronounced animal features, large horns or other indisputably 
faerie features. You generally have a hard time passing unnoticed in mortal 
society, anyone who knows anything about the fae immediately knows you for 
what you are, and even the smallest interactions with mortals require very 
creative explanations of your deformity, and many are still fraught with 
suspicion, superstition and sometimes outright hostility against the “freak.” 
Ravaged (2 Trait Fae Mark) 
Whether due to a wicked mentor, a ill-fated tryst or just bad timing, you have 
been Ravaged by one of the fae, which has robbed you of the Glamour that is your 
natural right. Given the difficulty kinain have gaining Glamour, this is a serious 
handicapandcouldveryeasilyhave stayed with youformonthsor evenyearsafter 
the attack occurred. You begin the game with no temporary Glamour Traits and 
thus probably also know very little about any Fae Gifts or Arts you might have, 
unless they require no Glamour to activate. What’s more, the psychic wounds 
from this traumatic event are still fresh in your mind, no matter how long ago the 
incident(s) actually occurred; you are two Traits down on all attempts at friendly 
Social Tests with the fae, due to the deep-seated distrust you harbor for them in 
your heart. You may one day be able to finally come to terms with what happened 
to you (i.e., buy off this Flaw), but it will take a great deal of effort and trust; until 
then, no matter how nice local Kithain may be or how hard you try to put it behind 
you, the memories of your creativity being ripped away are too painful to really 
open up to these untrustworthy creatures. 
Selective Enchantment (1-3 Trait Fae Mark) 
Perhaps it’s a family curse, or maybe it’s simply the will of the Dreaming, 
but whatever the reason may be, you can only be enchanted in one particular 
fashion. All other efforts to enchant you are simply a waste of Glamour, 
although you may not know this until the attempt actually fails. While 
occasionally useful for fending off unwanted attempts at enchantment, this 
condition is typically far more of a hassle than a help, and rest assured the 
Storyteller will take every chance to exploit the aggravating side of this Mark. 
Needless to say, this handicap also makes it even more difficult for you to stay 
involved in Kithain society than most kinain, especially if your favored means 
of enchantment is one especially exacting or distasteful to the fae. They might 
even eventually consider you more trouble than you’re worth to keep around! 
The exact value of this Mark depends on how specific and difficult the 
circumstances happen to be that you require in order to be enchanted; a fairly 
easy or common requirement, such as food or line of sight, would be worth one 
Trait, while a more exacting one such as a very specific type of food or your 
express verbal permission (which might be difficult to secure if you have fallen 
to the Mists, for example) would be worth three Traits. Add two Traits to the 
value of this Mark if you are further limited to one of the general method of 


technique. Storytellers may lessen its value or even ban this Mark outright if 
they do not feel it will be a substantial factor in the chronicle. 
On 6eing Cnchanteb 
No matter how often it may happen in a given kinain or mortal character’s 
life, the experience of enchantment is never the same twice, and roleplaying 
this constant level of wonder and novelty is one of the main challenges (and 
pleasures) of playing these unique characters. This section deals with the 
mechanics of enchantment - 
how it is done, what effects it has, and the 
greatest dangers of being enchanted. 
Methoas of Lnchantment 
There are several ways to enchant mortals and Prodigals. Each has its own 
unique flavor, and most changelings develop an affinity for one or two over 
time. Remember, time spent in a freehold or in the Far or Deep Dreaming 
doesn’t count toward the time limit on an enchantment, hence the reason that 
many nobles prefer to keep enchanted mortals in their freeholds, as it decreases 
the amount of Glamour that needs to be spent. 
Tokens 
Folklore holds that one must be wary of accepting gifts of food or trinkets 
from the fae, lest one be drawn into their world forever. While largely 
exaggerations, these legends do have some basis in fact. The process of creating 
tokens is the most common and usually most gentle means of enchanting 
others, and so is considered the preferred method by most fae. What’s more, all 
manner of trickery is permissible when it comes to convincing a target to accept 
a token, including tossing it to a target and hoping she reflexively catches it, but 
the token cannot be “planted” on a target (not even with magic), nor can it be 
forced on her with outright violence or it is immediately nullified. Tokens 
remain “charged” for an amount of time determined by their nature; food 
tokens expire when the food spoils, for example, but a token necklace might 
retain its Glamour for some time. Prior to activation, tokens can be sensed with 
an appropriate Kenning Test and even used as dross by particularly greedy or 
desperate fae. Contrary to popular opinion, the target need not carry the item 
on their person once the enchantment has begun, and removing it from their 
presence does nothing to shorten the duration of the enchantment. 
System: To use this method of enchantment, the Kithain must simply 
infuse some small token with a number of Glamour Traits and then get the 
target to accept it. The token itself is often crafted by the fae - 
handmade 
jewelry, homemade muffins, an original poem, etc. - 
but it may also be 
something found, such as a flower plucked from the side of the road or even a 
lucky penny. No matter what pretext she might have been duped with, 
however, upon accepting the token the target becomes enchanted for a number 
enchantment - 
tokens, forcible enchantment or even the Enchanted Stroke 


enchanted for a number of days equal to their own permanent Glamour plus the 
number of Traits spent on the token. Likewise, those with Merits like Faerie 
Affinity may also remain enchanted for a longer period of time, at the 
Storyteller’s discretion. 
Forcible Enchantment 
While often very traumatic for the target, sometimes a fae has no choice 
but to pull a target into their world by sheer force of Glamour. This is most often 
done to draw a mortal or Prodigal foe into the chimerical world so that a fae 
might more easily use their cantrips against them, though it is rumored that 
some unsavory Unseelie use this method of enchantment to terrify mortal prey 
before Ravaging them. Those who have experienced this process describe it as 
nothing less than jarring. Token enchantment is a slowly blooming flower of 
the spirit, while forcible enchantment is a sudden flash fire that burns away the 
regular world. Still, sometimes there is no other choice, and on occasion the 
shock of the transition is just what a clever fae needs to disorient an opponent 
long enough to land a telling blow. Just be careful how much you reveal to the 
enemy by enchanting them.. . . 
System: Forcible enchantment is brutally simple - 
the changeling simply 
makes a test of their permanent Glamour versus the target’s permanent 
Banality; if successful, the target becomes enchanted for one scenehour 
(whichever comes first) per Glamour Trait the fae is willing to spend. If 
unsuccessful, however, the fae immediately gains two temporary Banality 
Traits and cannot attempt to forcibly enchant that target again for at least an 
hour. What’s more, if the target is carrying any cold iron, they are considered 
one Trait up on the test. This is one reason most fae shy away from forcible 
enchantment if at all possible. Not only does it have a much shorter payoff for 
the Glamour spent, but it carries a nasty risk of Banality as well. 
If the target fails to resist, however, they are down a number of Traits equal 
to their permanent Banality on all tests save those to defend themselves for the 
next minute due to the disorientation of the crossover, minus one Trait for each 
time they have been previously enchanted (minimum one Trait). Since their 
perspectives are already radically different from the norm, most Prodigals are 
immune to thispenalty, although they must still roleplay the shockoftheir new 
state to the best of their ability; the Narrator’s discretion is final on whether the 
penalty applies. 
Enchanted Stroke 
This flashy technique requires a bit of Melee and Gremayre to pull off, but 
it can be absolutely devastating when performed properly. A very specific form 
of forcible enchantment, the Enchanted Stroke allows the Kithain to imbue a 
swing of their weapon with Glamour so that the next foe they strike becomes 
temporarily enchanted. While this initial strike does no damage to the target 


opponents. At the very least, it levels the playing field a bit by allowing the 
changeling to use all the chimerical resources at their disposal, and so it is 
commonly employed against particularly fearsome mortal or Prodigal opponents. 
System: The Enchanted Stroke costs one Glamour Trait per use, enchants 
a target for one day, and requires that the Kithain have at least one permanent 
level each of Melee and Gremayre before it can be mastered. Of course, a 
successful Physical Test is also required to hit the target with this technique in 
the first place. Note that this technique usually must be taught by a mentor of 
some kind - 
it is not instinctive upon learning those Ability levels, although 
some untrained Kithain have manifested this talent in times of truly dire need 
(high drama and Narrator’s discretion required for such uses). Furthermore, this 
technique can be employed only by Kithain using melee weapons, as ranged 
weapons of any kind - 
including thrown daggers or axes - 
sever the link 
between Kithain and weapon that is vital to the success of the attack, while raw 
fists or feet simply don’t have the necessary panache to carry off this technique. 
Cffects of Cnchantment 
Regardless of whether the target is a mortal or a Prodigal, once enchanted, 
the base result is very simple: The target cannow perceive and interact with the 
chimerical world exactly as Kithain do, and what’s more, the chimerical world 
can interact with them as well. Chimerical weapons injure, chimerical obstacles 
block and chimerical creatures react to their presence, for better or worse. The 
target may automatically see the faerie mien of any changeling they come across 
and may even dream up some voile, or chimerical clothing, for themselves to 
wear. (More complicated and/or useful items like functioning weapons or 
armor typically must be borrowed or purchased with the appropriate Backgrounds, 
however.) They may also enter hidden freeholds, walk trods, ride faerie mounts 
or perform other tasks normally impossible to the unenchanted. It becomes 
easier to cast cantrips on them, as they are now immersed in the world of 
Glamour and cannot employ their Banality to deflect any magics cast their way. 
In essence, for all intents and purposes the enchanted target is a denizen of the 
faerie realm, if only for a time. 
To this end, Narrators and Kithain players alike should make a special 
effort to describe the chimerical world and its inhabitants to the newly 
enchanted character, allowing them to feel the full majesty of the Dreaming 
unfolding around them. They have entered a totally new world, after all, and it’s 
the duty of all Kithain to make sure that these “new arrivals” feel the grandeur, 
humor and terror of the chimerical world as fully as possible. For their part, 
enchanted characters need not walk around slack-jawed the entire night, 
gaping at every faerie character they see, but no matter how long they remain 
should always retain some appreciation of the fact that they have entered a new 
world, which even at its most familiar is still the embodiment of every dream 
and nightmare they’ve ever had. Indeed, even those characters who have been 


kind of preparation a person might have, it’s still a pale shadow of the actual 
experience. 
While the primary features of enchantment should be handled through 
roleplaying and description, some quick rules and game mechanics dealing with 
the enchanted character’s new state are as follows, to clear up some common 
misconceptions about enchantment: 
Enchanted characters can automatically perceive the fae mien of any 
changeling they come across (unless the fae is actively hiding it via cantrips or 
some other means), as well as any prominent chimerical items or landscape 
features. 
Enchanted characters cannot use their Banality to defend against 
cantrips; they are simply too saturated with Glamour to call upon their disbelief 
like they normally can. 
Enchanted characters count as chimerical targets for the purposes of 
determining cantrip costs, unless the caster specifically wishes to create a Wyrd 
effect, in which case the cantrip costs the normal amount for such magic. 
Enchanted characters suffer and heal damage from chimerical sources 
normally; this doesn’t pose a problem unless the character falls below 
Incapacitated from such damage. (See “Chimerical Death,” below, for what 
happens to those slain by chimerical means.) Any unhealed chimerical damage 
fades away harmlessly when the enchantment ends, though “phantom aches” 
may trouble the character for days. 
Enchanted Prodigals or other paranormal characters can use their 
supernatural powers against chimera and the chimerical world normally - 
thus 
the hesitation of most fae to enchant particularly powerful foes, lest they lay 
waste to whole areas of the Dreaming before they’re subdued. As a further rule 
of thumb, those powers that affect spirits (not wraiths) function on chimera as 
well, but only as long as the character using the power remains enchanted. 
When in doubt, consult a Narrator and employ common sense on how a 
particular power functions in the Dreaming. 
mangers of Cnchantment 
As most enchanted beingsquickly learn, the Dreaming canbe as frightening 
and dangerous as it is wondrous and beautiful, a fact that even seasoned kinain 
and others used to being enchanted are well aware of. Besides goblin inventions, 
forbidding terrain and cunning beasts, enchanted characters face two serious 
threats to life and limb: chimerical death and the enchanted version of Bedlam, 
or what the Kithain call being Dream-struck. 
Chimerical O e a t h  
Enchanted characters who are slain by chimerical damage do not actually 
die, but their enchantment ends and they immediately fall into a comatose 
state, which lasts for a length of time determined by their permanent Banality 


(see the Mists chart in The Shining Host, pg. XXX). As most enchanted 
beings have fairly high Banality, this can take a character out for quite some 
time, so newcomers to the chimerical world are cautioned to take the 
“imaginary” weapons they encounter seriously! 
It is rumored that certain powerful Treasures or cantrips (or their Prodigal 
equivalents), not to mention more prosaic means such as the kiss of a true 
love, can rouse a comatose character before the requisite amount of time, but 
if such means exist, no one yet knows what they might be. Upon waking, the 
recovering character’s memories of the chimerical world and any changelings 
they met are typically very hazy and indistinct, as if little more than distant 
dreams. Again, the amount the target remembers is determined by their 
permanent Banality rating and can be found on the aforementioned Mists 
chart. 
Chimerical death is a two-way street: While it’s only fair to allow 
changelings to use their natural means and magics to battle their enemies, 
enchantment is seldom if ever considered as the first option when battling 
Prodigals or especially determined mortals, due to the risk that these foes 
might somehow remember enough about their experience to do lasting 
damage to the chimerical world. Changelings have been largely invisible to 
the mortal world and even the watchful eyes of the Prodigals for centuries, if 
not millennia, and they’re in no hurry to squander this advantage by carelessly 
enchanting anyone who crosses them. After all, the player might know that 
most targets are too Banal to remember much of the Dreaming, but is their 
character really willing to hazard the uncertainty of how much a Dauntain 
hunter or vampire assassin might remember? That’s not a chance most 
Kithain take lightly, if they dare to take it at all. Likewise, Storytellers should 
watch out for players who try to exploit enchantment solely as a means of 
putting targets (especially other players’ characters) in long-term comas and 
rein them in quickly and firmly, else the magic of enchantment is lost in a sea 
of bitter feelings. 


Perhaps even more insidious than chimerical death is the threat to a 
mortal’s sanity that long-term enchantment poses. Not truly a part of the 
chimerical world, enchanted beings can never accept it the same way the 
Kithaindo. Over time, they may gradually find themselves becoming lost in the 
endless wonders of the Dreaming until they have trouble discerning what is real 
from what is not and have trouble functioning in either world. The Kithain 
refer to this process as becoming Dream-struck, and kindly fae watch their 
mortal retinues for signs that it is taking hold, returning those so afflicted to the 
Banal world before their minds suffer permanent damage. It is a sad truth for 
many fae to face, but a truth nonetheless, and those who ignore it risk losing 
their friend or lover for good. All but the most despicable Unseelie guard 
carefully against letting those they enchant fall victim to this wasting condition. 
Even kinain can be affected, for while they may have changeling blood, they 
are still not native to the Dreaming as their full-blooded relatives are. While it 
is slightly less common among the kinain, this madness remains a threat to 
them as well. 
Becoming Dream-struck is very similar to Bedlam in many ways; the victim 
passes through three distinct stages, or thresholds, losing more and more of 
herself each time until little more than a smiling, vacant shell remains. As time 
passes, the power of the Dreaming simply overwhelms the minds of mortals or 
kinain. At the outset, this manifests as little more than an air of distracted 
daydreaming, but it eventually becomes a state of endless catatonia that leaves 
victims utterly helpless. Ironically enough, it seems to occur less often (or at 
least take longer to manifest) in those mortals who have a higher level of 
Banality; Kithain scholars speculate that their higher level of mundaneness 
actually “insulates” them from the Dreaming to a certain degree. However, as 
with most things of the Dreaming, this is not an absolute rule - 
some mortals 
with high natural Glamour levels get along in freeholds for months or even 
years without a problem, while some with lower Glamour and/or higher 
Banality levels can become Dream-struck very quickly. It should be noted that 
characters who have fallen into being Dream-struck in the past generally 
succumb to it more easily each time, so caution is advised when dealing with 
those who have been touched by this madness before. 
System: Just as with Bedlam, the threat of becoming Dream-struck should 
always be more of a question of roleplaying than of game mechanics, and the 
Storyteller has final say on when it strikes. For those seeking a rule of thumb, 
however, or for the purposes ofkeeping track of enchanted mortals and the like, 
a mortal or kinain must make a test of their Banality against eight Traits for 
every month that they spend largely or entirely enchanted (time spent in 
freeholds counts). Failure means they have slipped into the first threshold of 
being Dream-struck and must roleplay accordingly. Other factors can come 
into play as well, at the Storyteller’s discretion. For example, mortals who are 


more frequent tests, while those who are somehow shielded &om the more 
bizarre aspects of the Dreaming may not need to test nearly as often. Players of 
kinain and enchanted mortal characters are encouraged to be honest about the 
amount of time they spend enchanted. Such is the price for those who have the 
luxury of constant enchantment. 
Note: A successful Ravaging always snaps a mortal out of being Dream- 
struck, since it robs them of the Glamour needed to maintain the condition, but 
obviously this is hardly the most optimal solution for most fae. Indeed, even the 
most callous Unseelie attempting to “treat” an afflicted charge this way risks 
gaining Banality for the effort, so it is used sparingly at best. 
First Threshold 
Early signs of a character becoming Dream-struck are often hard to 
determine, as it usually manifests as little more than a high level ofdaydreaming 
and a subtle yet constant air of distraction. Things of beauty (and there are 
many in the enchanted world) can leave them transfixed and staring for 
moments on end, watching in mute fascination. Even little wonders like a 
blooming flower or a finely polished weapon can capture their attention, such 
that they become unaware of the world around them in their concentration. 
Many Kithain think their friend or servant is simply admiring the beauty of 
their new perspective, and in a sense they are correct, but while nearly all 
mortals exhibit some fascination with the chimerical, those in the first 
threshold of becoming Dream-struck are actually momentarily powerless with 
awe. A mere word or touch will bring them back to reality, but even so they are 
prone to flights of fancy; when the needs of the moment lapse away they 
eventually slip back into their reverie. 
There are no game mechanics for this level of madness, but it should be 
roleplayed. Characters in the first threshold are typically treated by being 
dropped in the mundane world for a few days so that the Mists can wash away 
the accumulated Glamour surrounding their minds. Most recover quickly if 
treated in this manner. 
Second Threshold 
Glamour is now weighing heavily on enchanted characters; they sleep 
agreat deal and become difficult to awaken, as their private dream life is now 
starting to bleed over into their everyday reality. Afflicted characters 
gradually lose the ability to distinguish between dreaming and waking, 
which not only gives them a more seriously distracted air than before but 
also tends to encourage a kind of reckless courage in them, since they find 
it hard to consider anything real anymore. Minor hallucinations are common 
at this stage, and they begin seeing elements of their fantasy life staking the 
edges of their vision or in mirrors and other reflective surfaces. These images 
do not typically spawn chimera or anything nearly that serious but can still 
pose a problem for the characters and those around them, since they tend 


roleplaying mechanic and should be treated accordingly. 
A surprising number of mortals make it as far as this threshold before 
they’re noticed, especially if their master cares little for their well-being. A 
significant number of others die at this threshold, since their common sense 
no longer holds them in check when it comes to taking risks. Treatment for 
second-threshold Dream-struck is much the same as that for first threshold, 
except it’s done for a longer time; the unfortunate mortal is left in the 
mundane world for weeks or even months until the Kithain are sure the last 
vestiges of Glamour have been concealed by the Mists. This time is often 
roughly equivalent to the time dictated by a target’s Banality rating on the 
Mists chart in The Shining Host, though this is not an absolute indication 
of how long healing may take. One thing is known, however - 
enchanting 
such mortals again before they’re ready is almost certain to immediately 
drop them back into at least the first threshold of being Dream-struck. 
Third Threshold 
A t  this point, mortals completely withdraw from the world, 
retreating into their own vivid dream life. To observers, they 
appear catatonic, with a slight smile o n  their face and an utterly 
vacant look to their eyes. They can be forced into action, but only 
by the most direct and forceful means, and even then their 
movements are extremely lethargic and their speech nearly 
incomprehensible, since they perceive everything as part of their 
dream. As with those suffering from the later stages of Bedlam, 
these Dream-struck often spawn chimera of their own, who seek to 
defend their creator from the “intrusions” of others. These typically 
disappear if the mortal can be roused from their slumber, but in 
the meantime these chimera do their utmost to keep their creators 
safe from what they perceive as the aggression of others, even use 
violence if they feel it’s appropriate. 
The good news is, there is more hope for saving a third- 
threshold Dream-struck mortal t h a n  a changeling i n  
third-threshold Bedlam, at least as far as sanity is concerned - 
the Banality of the mortal world eventually heals the character’s 
mind in all but the most extreme cases, although psychiatric care 
and possibly some hospital time is usually required for most mortals 
to fully recover from their ordeal. Here again the mortal’s inherent 
Banality actually helps “ground” them in a way that changelings 
are incapable of in respect to Bedlam, though few of either race 
think of this as much of a blessing. The bad news is that enchanting 
the unfortunate mortal at any point in the future is certain to 
trigger a return to their Dream-struck state, no matter how much 
time has passed since they were last enchanted. It may only begin 
as first-threshold symptoms but quickly degenerates to a full- 


blown third-threshold Dream-struck state. The mortal’s soul has 
been scarred, and they can never again be part of the Dreaming for 
very long without those wounds being reopened. Additionally, 
while mortals with high Banality are more likely to recover 
physically, they are more likely to have some form of temporary or 
even permanent insanity since their banal mind cannot handle 
the memories of enchantment, even when consciously suppressed 
by the Mists. 
173 


One of the most delightful things about Kithain magic is that it is 
constantly in motion. If there’s one element the Dreaming thrives on, it’s 
change. Dusty tomes containing lost Arts of old are occasionally unearthed by 
adventuring motleys, while scholars noble and common work in mysterious 
laboratories to discover new applications for old cantrips. Rarest and most 
wonderful of all, sometimes a particularly brilliant and dedicated changeling 
develops a new Art entirely on their own, creating a lasting legacy of magic as 
well as a gift for all her fellow Kithain. There have been few such events in 
recent memory, but they serve as models for future heroes and visionaries. Fae 
courageous enough to brave the trials of mastering a new Art or unearthing one 
thought lost earn a place of legend among their fellows. 
Except where otherwise noted, these Arts are considered fairly common 
knowledge and may be selected normally during character creation. Storytellers 
may even allow players of existing characters to trade levels of previous Arts for 
one of these new Arts if it is more appropriate to their character concept (the 
“I should’ve had this all along” notion), though this should be done only for 
those characters who would honestly warrant such a change, not as a way of 
min-maxing the Arts a character knows. For example, with Storyteller permission 
a love-struck bard with Chicanery might swap it for Aphrodesia, since it’s closer 
to his concept than the Art he currently possesses. 
Aphrobesia 
The quintessentially fae Art of love and desire, this magic has experienced 
something of aresurgence lately, brought up from the depths by the mer in their 
contacts with landwalkers, thoughsomerareKithain (satyrsandeshuespecially) 
never lost the knack for it. At its lower levels, this Art allows the fae to discern 
emotions and create brief infatuations; at higher levels, it can generate desires 
that border on outright mania.. . and beyond. It is recommended that a special 


of this Art, as the romantic interludes, betrayals and obsessions it prompts can 
quickly become confusing otherwise. 
Note: All desires created by this Art are not necessarily sexual, but it must 
be stressed that they do seem perfectly natural to the target (if sometimes a little 
sudden) unless the target has a way of detecting supernatural manipulation. 
Type of Challenge: Social 
Basic 
Lover’s Eyes: Although the character cannot actually manipulate emo- 
tions directly, this Art allows a clever changeling to do just about as much 
damage -a 
fae with this power can detect strong currents of emotions between 
others. Love, friendship, loyalty, lust, respect and hate are all readily apparent 
to this power. However, only these specific emotions can be detected - 
this 
is not a general aura reading power. The caster also must first observe the 
target(s) in some form of close contact with each other - 
talking face to face, 
holding hands, lying together, etc. -before the Art may be cast. If successful, 
the changeling may approach her target and ask him (out of character) to 
describe his character’s true feelings for the other character, and the target must 
answer honestly. Each fae must choose one sense when this power is taken, and 
all information from this Art comes through that route from there on: Some 
changelings can see love as rose light and hate as black radiance, while others 
smell lilac in the presence of healthy desire and fresh jasmine when lust is 
present, etc. A successful use of this Art also detects any supernatural emotional 
manipulation in the target, from other uses of this Art itself, certainchicanery 
cantrips, vampiric Presence, wraithly Keening, etc.; it does not reveal the 
source of such magic, however. 
Type: Chimerical 
Fancy: At this level, the character may begin to start affecting emotions 
directly by inserting a momentary flash of interest for a particular person or 
thing - 
the faerie guarantee of a good impression! This is not an assurance of 
love for life, of course, but it can ably serve as the proverbial “foot in the door” 
in romantic situations. A successful use allows the caster to plant one desire 
“flash per Bunk Trait gained in casting. To use a flash, the character employs 
the Cupid to seek out the intended target and inform them that a sudden desire 
for an object or person of the caster’s choice has crossed their mind. A flash can 
be used at any time during the session, but the caster had best choose such uses 
wisely - 
for example, using one while the target is alone may cause them to 
make a phone call to the desired party, “just happen” to stop by while out 
driving, or tb make an impulse purchase while shopping, but overdoing them 
can make a target annoyed or even suspicious, and doing so while the character 
is in a firefight likely causes the flash to be ignored entirely in favor of the more 
pressing concerns at hand. (No, the flashes are not distracting enough to bring 
on a Trait penalty.) This Art can be used on a particular target only once per 


.
-
 
Bunk Traits on their first Social test with the target, making it that much more 
likely they make agood impression; this lacks style, but can be invaluable if time 
is an issue. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Number One Crush: This Art steps up the level of the target’s desire to 
a sincere craving; if enough magic is invested, the character may even abandon 
most of her good sense in pursuit of the object of the caster’s choosing. In 
essence, this Art engenders a solid “crush in the target - 
if the object of their 
attention is an animal or material possession, they desire to own the object and 
ruminate happily on its different positive qualities to those around them. They 
do all they can to have it in their possessionbe around it at all times as well as 
keep others from taking it, and may well become violent if they think someone 
else is trying to take it away from them. If is a person is the center of their 
affection, the targets do everything they can to become as close to them as 
possible and do almost anything their crush asks, within limits - 
suicide (or 
actions that are obviously such), betraying oathsldeeply held beliefs and 
secrets, or fighting one’s allies are automatically out of the question, but minor 
tasks are certainly permissible, and even more complicated or shady requests 
may be made if the target of the crush phrases them correctly. For example, a 
troll with a crush on your character wouldn’t fight his oathmates for you 
outright, but if you asked him to make sure no one entered the room you were 
in for a while, he’d certainly do his best to keep everyone out, oathmates or not, 
to the point of physically restraining them if necessary. The effects of this Art 
last for a number of hours per Glamour Trait spent during the cantrip casting, 
up a maximum number of hours equal to the Bunk Traits gained during casting. 
This cantrip is also broken automatically if the “crush attacks or otherwise 
blatantly abuses the smitten character. 
For those still wondering about the true extent of this power, simply 
remember the first absolutely hopeless head-over-heels crush you had back in 
junior high school, and what you didbelieved you would’ve done for your crush 
if they asked you to - 
that should give you the general idea of how deeply 
enthralled the target of this cantrip becomes. 
Type: Chimerical 
Passion’s Mirror: The classic Midsummer Night switcheroo spell, this Art 
allows the fae to reverse a target’s passions for a single night - 
a character 
happily in love now finds his beloved repellent, while a suitor he has long 
spurned becomes the very apple of his eye. Cold fish feel the stirrings of 
romance, passionate poets abandon their quills, blissful newlyweds quarrel and 
old enemies find themselves embracing beneath the moonlight when this 
mischievous Art is employed. This Art costs one Glamour Trait per use, plus 
one Social Trait for each of the target’s relationships to be affected (causing a 
lover to spurn his beloved costs one Social Trait, while shifting that same 
177 


last more than a full night (or day, if that is when it is cast) - 
longer results 
require a new cantrip casting after the old one fades. Once the time has passed, 
the cantrip gently lifts and characters resume their previous emotional state, 
likely quite confused about their own behavior - 
faeries tend to suspect what 
might have happened, but mortals and Prodigals are often clueless as to why 
they felt so different for the duration of the cantrip. Of course, there’s no 
guarantee that their behavior hasn’t done damage on its own-a 
spumed lover 
is often hard to reason with, and a heated.. . interlude can be very awkward to 
deal with the next morning! While real relationships can sometimes develop 
from this Art, and old enmities may fade after being seen from a different 
perspective, on average keeping the fires lit after the supernatural passion of the 
night has passed proves too difficult for most. 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Yearning of the Soul: This is the Art responsible for the legends of sirens 
who caused sailors to leap overboard and drown in the effort to be with them, 
and should be treated with an according amount of caution. The changeling 
may instill in a target an absolutely overpowering desire for something or 
someone - 
all sense of sanity, sociability or self-preservation goes right out the 
window when it comes to pursuing the object of the target’s affections, and even 
allies or loved ones find themselves flatly rebuffed (harshly, if needs be) if they 
stand between the target and his obsession. It must be stressed that the target 
does anything, anything, to be with the object ofhis desire, and once he manages 
to meet/possess the object, he defends it from the attentions of others and obeys 
it with the same amount of zeal. Note that the target need not always take the 
most obvious or dangerous course of action to reach his desire - 
you can’t serve 
your obsession when you’re dead, after all -but 
he must attempt to get to the 
object of his desire (or carry out its commands, if applicable) as quickly as 
possible. Likewise, he need not behave like a slavering fanatic the entire 
duration of the cantrip, but will respond to those who offer any praise of their 
obsession with boundless friendship and enthusiasm; on the other hand, 
anyone who speaks ill of it will be placed under immediate suspicion, if not 
outright shunned or attacked. As for the object of his desire, well, naturally no 
whim is too slight to be heeded, nor any type of care too demanding to perform. 
This Art costs a Glamour Trait per hour of effect desired, up to a number of 
hours equal to the number of Bunk Traits gained during the casting. This power 
may be used on a particular subject only once per session, and if the cantrip fails, 
it may not be used again on the target for the remainder of the story. 
Note: At the Narrator’s discretion, blatantly suicidal commands or acts 
that would directly result in the breaking of a deep personal oath (Guardianship, 
Truehearts, Clasped Hands, Adoption) may allow the character to resist the 
magic temporarily - 
if such a circumstance arises, they may attempt a Static 
Willpower Test against a difficulty of the caster’s Glamour Traits. Success 


taking the action, although the cantrip still remains in place otherwise. Fair 
warning - 
this cantrip can also be dangerous for the object of the target’s 
obsession as well, since the obsessed party usually obeys even minor commands 
given to them quite literally and are prone to insane jealousy toward anyone 
they perceive as a rival for their obsession’s affection. He may even try to take 
action to prevent his obsession from coming to harm (whether his “beloved” 
wants such protection or not!). He can be ordered to ignore such things, of 
course, but one never knows what seemingly minor things the obsessed mind 
may latch on to.... 
Sky craft 
In olden times, one of the reasons mortals feared crossing the Fair Folk was 
their legendary affinity with the weather. A farmer who slighted the fae might 
suffer a withering drought while his neighbors prospered, or even receive a 
lightning bolt from on high for his impudence. Likewise, sailors took zealous 
care to avoid angering the merfolk during their travels, lest they become 
becalmed for days or fall victim to terrible storms summoned by an angry 
denizen of the deep. Some fae still remember when the weather was theirs to 
command and treasure this Art as the legacy of those days. Skycraft is most 
common among the merfolk, where the open sea allows them free reign to 
explore its powers, but it also comes naturally to the nature-oriented kiths as 
well -ghille dhu, pooka, satyrs and trolls canal1 1earnSkycraft with a minimum 
of training. Many Nunnehi are also proficient in its secrets as well (especially 
the numuzo’ho). Other kiths may learn this Art but are considered one Trait 
down when using it. 
This Art functions without a hitch outdoors; indoors, all Skycraft cantrips 
must spring from some existing source, however unlikely (for ideas, see the 
description for the Primal Art Eldritch Prime). For example, a changeling can 
call Compass Winds from a ceiling fan or a window but cannot generate them 
in a prison cell deep underground. Likewise, while sufficient levels of this Art 
can conjure thunderheads in a previously blue sky (or vice versa), patently 
unnatural weather is out of the question - 
rain clouds will not form indoors, 
nor will fog simply spring from a changeling’s fingertips. Characters can be as 
creative as the Storyteller permits when using circumstances to justify this Art’s 
use indoors, but generally it functions much better outdoors. 
Type of Challenge: Physical 
Basic 
Thunderclap: In truth, this Art confers only a token control of the 
elements, but what it lacks in power it more than makes up for in style. The 
ultimate mood accessory, this Art allows the changeling to create small but 
suitably impressive bursts of weather phenomena at dramatically appropriate 
moments - 
a flash of thunder and lightning when swearing an oath of 


from a cloudy sky while professing true love, etc. For one related Social Test, 
these displays put the caster up a number of Traits equal to the Bunk Traits 
gained in casting. These displays cannot create anything lasting, nor can they 
harm or otherwise impair other characters (though those with Heightened 
Senses must win or tie a Simple Test or be temporarily blinded or deafened if 
caught at “ground zero” of an appropriate phenomena). They also cannot create 
blatantly impossible weather conditions - 
thunder or lightning from a blue sky 
is technically possible, for example, but not a ray of sunshine at midnight. 
Type: Wyrd or Chimerical 
Compass Winds: At this level, the character’s weather mastery has 
increased to the point where she can stir the breezes themselves, calling up 
winds capable of filling a sail, shaping a cloud formation or (at highest strength) 
slowing or even knocking down unwary opponents. Each Bunk Trait gained in 
casting allows for up to 20 mph of winds to be created, up to an overall maximum 
of 100 mph; knocking down an opponent requires at least 60 mph of wind force. 
These winds cost a Physical Trait to create and last for as long as the caster 
concentrates on them (putting her at a one-Trait penalty to all other actions), 
although each time she wishes to direct them against a different target in 
combat she must spend an additional Physical Trait to change the course of the 
winds appropriately. Those knocked down suffer a health level of damage and 
must spend a turngetting to their feet. At the Storyteller’s discretion, particularly 
strong, heavy, or well-rooted targets may be immune to this Art’s effects; the 
Storyteller should also be consulted on what damage, if any, is done to 
buildings, vehicles, items, etc., by this Art. 
Type: Wyrd or Chimerical 
Intermediate 
Willard’s World: Fae with this power have the essential elements of 
weather under their control, and with effort can call up any sort of weather 
phenomena they like, barring all outright destructive manifestations such as 
thunderstorms, drought, hail, tornadoes, etc. For game purposes, though, only 
nasty weather generally has any real effect - 
by combining low-lying cloud 
cover with dense fog or driving rain, the caster can effectively cloak a target or 
area from sight. Of course, this blindness works both ways: Those within a dense 
fog have no more of an idea what lies beyond than those outside have of what’s 
in it, nor does the caster have any special immunity to the weather she creates. 
All targets within the affected area are treated as blind for combat purposes 
(three-Trait penalty to all relevant challenges), as are any characters attempting 
to fire into the area from outside. This is just the tip of the iceberg; creative 
players may create other types of weather that also generate game effects, 
subject to Storyteller adjudication and approval. Use the Scene Realm to 
determine the maximum size of the area that can be affected for any cantrips 
that incur game modifiers; by contrast, weather that has no direct effect on the 
game may extend for up to two miles per Bunk Trait, at the Storyteller’s 


focusing a fog thick enough to invoke Trait penalties is limited to the normal 
area maximum for most cantrips. This Art costs two Glamour Traits to use and 
lasts for one scene (harmful) or one day (benign). 
Type: Wyrd 
Stormcraft: This mighty Art allows the caster to call up a damaging storm 
or similar destructive weather phenomena, which then directs its fury at the 
targetsmealms designated in the cantrip casting. The storm is terrifying in both 
appearance and intensity, lasting as long as the caster continues to concentrate 
(putting her at a one-Trait penalty to all other actions). Those targeted by the 
storm suffer penalties as outlined under Willard’s World above; in addition, the 
caster may concentrate the fury of the storm even further, possibly causing 
serious injury to those unlucky enough to be caught in its path. By winning a 
Physical Test (Bunk Traits count), she may inflict a level of bashing damage on 
those within the area of the storm’s effects. Only one such test may be made per 
round, and the caster must test all within the storm’s area of effect-she 
cannot 
pick and choose her targets. Targets must seek some kind of shelter to avoid 
facing such punishment; use common sense on what constitutes sufficient 
cover from the storm. The caster may also whip up the storm winds to suit her 
desires, generating gusts of wind exactly as if she had used the Compass Winds 
Art, though the maximum speed of the winds generated in this fashion is still 
limited by the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting, and the winds cost one 
Glamour Trait per turn in addition to normal costs. Truly daring fae may even 
attempt to fly on the tempest winds they have summoned; by spending a 
Glamour Trait, the caster (and only the caster) may take flight as if she had used 
the Wind Ri&r Art, carried aloft by the gale. Each turn she wishes to use this 
flight, however, she must win or tie a Simple Test - 
failure means that she 
takes a level of bashing damage from the buffeting winds, though she can still 
fly if she desires. 
There is a serious downside to this Art: Storms are unruly things at best, 
and the caster faces the very real possibility that the storm may slip from her 
control and continue to rampage on without her. When this Art is used, the 
caster and a Narrator should perform a Static Willpower Test against a 
difficulty of the Bunk Traits gained in casting; failure means that the storm rages 
on even if the caster ceases concentrating or falls unconscious, at which time 
the storm continues under the Storyteller’s control. The Storyteller then 
controls the storm’s movements and who or what it targets (use the original 
caster’s current Physical + Bunk Traits to determine the storm’s Traits for the 
purposes of challenges). It then lasts until the Storyteller decides it abates, or 
a character with at least this many levels of the Skycraft Art casts a cantrip with 
an equal or greater number of Bunk Traits as the original storm to cancel it out. 
Type: Wyrd or Chimerical 
Advanced 


lightning on his enemies, even from an otherwise blue and cloudless sky. Only 
one target may be struck at a time, regardless of the Realms used in casting, but 
if the cantrip is successful, that unfortunate soul takes three levels of aggravated 
damage as the caster channels raw electricity through his body and into the 
target. Furthermore, armor does not block this damage - 
indeed, those in full 
metal armor such as plate mail take an additional level of damage due to their 
high conductivity. As indicated before, no clouds are needed to call the 
lighming strike, although such attempts are one Trait down; on the other hand, 
all uses of this cantrip during a storm of any kind, even one created by this Art, 
are one Trait up. At the caster’s desire (and Narrator’s discretion), this damage 
may manifest in some other weather-related form - 
a slicing sheet of ice, 
choking dust storm, highly localized tornado, etc. -but most fae prefer to stick 
with the classics when it comes to smiting their foes. 
Type: Chimerical or Wyrd 
Metamorphosis 
Legends abound of fae shifting shape, disguising themselves, growing to 
giant size or otherwise altering their form. This Art is the basis for many such 
tales. A treasured bit of commoner lore, this Art has suffered greatly with the 
spread of Banality as outlandish shapes and sizes are slowly written out of 
conventional reality, but it nonetheless remains a potent tool (or weapon) in 
the hands of clever fae. Note that Metamorphosis remains primarily a commoner 
Art; while there are seldom any formal restrictions on teaching it to the 
nobility, most commoners see it as one of the few weapons they have that the 
sidhe don’t, and are in no hurry to bring them up to speed on it just yet. For their 
part, many sidhe are actually quite uneasy about changing their beautiful shapes 
with such a “low Art” and prefer to hold off on shape-changing until they master 
the more “respectable” Primal Art. 
Art Note: As Metamorphosis often involves drastic changes in acharacter’s 
appearance, players should be prepared to write description cards that detail 
their character’s new form; these cards should be brightly colored and 
prominently attached to their costume so other players are immediately aware 
of a change, even if the other characters aren’t. 
Type of Challenge: Physical 
Basic 
Hidden Form: This devious Art allows a changeling to blend into her 
surroundings, effectively disappearing from sight. Characters employing this 
Art use the standard hand signal for invisibility; however, Hidden Form differs 
from Veikd Eyes in several important ways. First of all, it is an actual physical 
change, so it fools cameras as well as people. This also means that characters 
with Hidden Form may interact with their environment in ways that characters 
with Veikd Eyes cannot - 
run, open doors, pick up objects, and so on - 
although such actions allow anyone watching an immediate Mental Test, no 


Stealth or Akrtness Abilities). If an observer “picks out” the outline of the 
invisible character, they can track or fight them without difficulty until such 
time as the invisible character either completely stops moving or goes entirely 
out of their line of sight - 
turns a comer, jumps a wall, etc. -at which point 
the observer must make another Mental Test to detect the invisible character 
once more. Characters who pierce the cantrip successfully are two Traits up on 
subsequent detection tests for the rest of the scene, however, since they know 
better what to look for. Second, since those under this cantrip are still prone to 
making noise, giving off a scent and so on, characters with any form of 
Heightened Senses receive a free retest to detect changelings in Hidden Form. 
Finally, while it is possible to fight in this form (and opponents are at a two- 
Trait penalty against such a well-disguised foe), the rapid movements and 
intense concentration battle requires tend to break down the cantrip very 
quickly - 
the changeling must spend a Glamour Trait every round of combat 
to maintain their disguised state or the cantrip immediately ends. 
Type: Wyrd. 
Impersonate: While not a true shapeshifter yet, the changeling has 
learned to alter his features in a number of ways, making him a veritable master 
of disguise and capable of copying the voice and visage of another with uncanny 
accuracy. Note that this change does not convey “scientific” details such as 
fingerprints, DNA or retina patterns, nor does it bestow any of the memories, 
Abilities or supernatural powers of the target of Impersonate; thus, the would- 
be double may also need to make Performance (Acting) or Subterfuge Tests to 
keep up the act under scrutiny. Also, the size of the character under Impersonate’s 
effects must be roughly similar to the target’s, unless the caster is also willing to 
use Go Ask Alice (below). The number of Bunk Traits gained in the casting 
determines how good a resemblance the character actually creates: One or two 
Bunk Traits is a poor likeness indeed, only capable of passing inspection in 
near-darkness or at a distance; anyone trying to see through the shoddy disguise 
receives a free retest on such tests, and those with Heightened Senses pierce it 
automatically. Three to four Bunk Traits is enough for a good copy, and the 
character is two Traits up on all tests to hide his identity unless the opponent 
is an intimate friend or lover or has some form of Heightened Senses, in which 
case the test is performed normally. Five or more Bunk Traits equates to a 
perfect likeness, which can only be pierced by close friends or lovers, and even 
then the character is two Traits up to maintain his disguise. This Art costs one 
Social Trait and lasts a maximum of one hour/scene per Bunk Trait, whichever 
is longer. 
Type: Chimerical if used for fae mien, Wyrd if used for mortal seeming. 
Intermediate 
Go Ask Alice: Faeries have always been known as“Litt1e People,”and this 
Art is one reason why -skilled users can shrink to the size of a thimble or grow 
taller than trees, both of which can prove very useful in the right situations. 


in walls, for example, while enlarged fae can frighten foes and reach the top 
shelf unaided. Despite some common misconceptions, though, this Art does 
not make a changeling any stronger or tougher if enlarged, nor does it make one 
any faster or more delicate simply by virtue of decreasing their size. As with 
Impersonate, this Art can be used on either the fae mien or the mortal seeming, 
though exceptionally large or tiny fae are bound to attract a great deal of 
Banality if exposed to skeptical onlookers. The maximum amount of size 
alteration possible is determined by the number of Bunk Traits gained in 
casting - 
each Bunk Trait allows a changeling grow as much as 1/2 again larger 
than normal, or shrink by 1/4 their normal size, cumulatively. Go Ask Alice can 
be cast multiple times on a target during a scene to allow for truly impressive 
feats of size manipulation, and lasts for one scene or until the caster wills it 
undone, whichever comes first. 
Example: Denny the pooka uses Go Ask Alice to cause some mischief; if he gets 
oneBunkTrait, hemayshrinkto3/4 hisnormalsize, orgrowto 1 1/2hisregularsize; 
if he gets two, he my shrink down to 112 normal size, or swell to twice his regular size; 
and so on. Of course, he has control over exactly how big or small he gets - 
if he 
p e r f m  a three Trait Bunk and decides he only wants to shrink to 314 size after all, 
he can. 
Merlin’s Lessons: Animal transformations - 
frogs into princes, peasants 
into newts and so on- are common in fairy tales, and this Art is one of the main 
reasons why this is so. A changeling using this cantrip can transform his target 
into a nonmythical creature for one hour per Bunk Trait; for an additional 
Glamour Trait, the natural powers and advantages of an animal form are 
conferred as well, such as the burrowing instincts of a mole or the graceful flight 
of a bird. The Narrator has the final word on what powers can be gained and 
how they are adjudicated in play. Note that the target retains his normal Mental 
and Social Traits, health levels, memories and intellect during this time, as well 
as any Birthrights or other supernatural powers that can still be used in his 
current form. However, his Physical Traits rely on his new shape, and his 
powers of speech remain limited by the animal shape (which may also prohibit 
many Social Tests), not to mention that many Abilities and Backgrounds are 
pretty useless without opposable thumbs. Characters with natural shapeshifting 
powers such as pookas, selkies or Garou may spend a Trait of Blood/Glamour/ 
Gnosis/Pathos/etc. to retest this Art, but may do so only once during the 
duration of the cantrip. 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Mythic Transformation: This Art is identical to the Primal Art Elder- 
Form, including Glamour cost, with two important changes. First, if using the 
Art only on himself, the caster does not need the Realm of what he wishes to 
become, only the proper Realm needed to affect himself. Second, while Elder- 
Form does not confer any supernatural powers if the caster chooses a mythic 


causing the changeling to lose one Glamour Trait per hour the form is 
maintained. Once all Glamour Traits are lost, health levels are lost at the same 
rate and cannot be healed until the caster takes his original shape again. In 
addition, if confronted by a skeptical observer -Kinain, Prodigals and mortals 
who are currently enchanted don’t count - 
the changeling must immediately 
make a test of his permanent Glamour rating versus the target’s Banality. If the 
changeling loses, he is immediately dropped into a random spot in the 
Dreaming as the Banal world utterly rejects his presence and must make his way 
home however he can. 
Kryos 
Although many fae distrust this Art, fearing that its resurgence is another 
omen of an approaching Winter, legends of faeries who could control the very 
chill in the air are as old as time, and those fae daring enough to study the force 
of cold itself can find endless uses for it. Although it originated with the 
merfolk, who use it to lethal effect underwater, many trolls and redcaps display 
a natural aptitude for this Art, and it is rumored that the fae of the Shadow 
Court encourage its teaching as well. Due to their increased ease of use there, 
all Kryos cantrips are one Trait up underwater. 
Type of Challenge: Physical 
Basic 
Cold Shock: This Art offers the target a brush with true cold, inside and 
out - 
targets find themselves victims of a sudden drop in temperature, as if 
they’d been standing outside in cold weather for a long time combined with the 
worst ice cream “brain freeze” headache one can imagine. Those affected are 
numbed and chapped, putting them two Traits down on all Physical Tests for 
one scene; exposure to a considerable heat source such as a bonfire or steam 
bath (not simply a lighter or extra clothing) for at least ten minutes cuts this 
penalty and duration in half. Due to their inherent susceptibility to this magic, 
cold-blooded creatures suffer twice the normal penalty, as well as a level of 
lethal damage - 
these effects are not cumulative for multiple castings, 
however. Used on nonliving targets, this Art makes things noticeably but not 
painfully cool to the touch. It cannot create ice spontaneously but can freeze 
a small quantity of existing water (no more than a full glass or so), as well as frost 
windows, keep drinks cool, etc. 


Gelid Rime: With this Art, the changeling can coat a target in a thin layer 
of ice; while it cannot completely encase a living target, it can most certainly 
slow them down, and inanimate targets are fair game for a complete coating. 
Targets affected can only move half their normal rate, round down, and are at 
a two-Trait penalty to all Physical Tests for anumber of turns equal to the Bunk 
Traits gained in casting. Outside of combat, Gelid R i m  lasts for up to one hour 
or scene, whichever is longer, although existing heat conditions may increase 
or decrease this time as well. This Art is also commonly used with the Scene 
Realm to create a slippery patch of ice to discourage pursuers; characters 
employing the Art in this fashion may call for a Fair Escape if they first defeat 
their pursuers in a Physical Test (Bunk Traits count). Of course, clever 
changelings can think of other uses for this Art as well, from ruining door locks 
to making a skating rink just about anywhere; such creative uses of this Art are 
strongly encouraged, subject to Narrator approval and adjudication. 
Type: Wyrd 
Intermediate 
Frost Facsimile: Fae with this Art are never at a loss for tools - 
or 
weapons. By spending a Physical Trait and performing a successful cantrip 
casting, the changeling can create all manner of items out of solid ice; with the 
expenditure of a Glamour Trait, she can even make them as hard as steel, a 
necessity when creating things like working swords or crowbars. Items created 
by this Art are considered to have anumber of health levels equal to the caster’s 
Bunk Traits for the purposes of taking damage, as well as the Delicate Negative 
Trait. Furthermore, any weapons created by this Apt have a number of Bonus 
Traits equal to the Bunk Traits, up to the normal maximum for that weapon. 
(An ice dagger cannot have more than one Bonus Trait, for example.) Unless 
the caster spends a Glamour Trait to harden them, however, all weapons and 
armor lose a health level each time they are used in combat, shattering 
harmlessly when all of their health levels are lost. Obviously, any items that 
require electricity or chemical reactions, such as cameras or handguns, do not 
function when created from ice, and the Storyteller may require an appropriate 
Ability test for truly complicated or beautiful creations (Crafts to create a 
working ice trebuchet, etc.). 
Type: Wyrd 
Crystal Prison: This debilitating Art completely encases the target in a 
thick block of ice, snapping tree branches, stopping cars, and immobilizing and 
possibly even suffocating living targets if the caster chooses to engulf their 
heads as well. This ice is roughly two inches thick for every Bunk Trait the 
caster earns; those caught within it can perform no other physical actions save 
to free themselves, which requires a Static Physical Test against a difficulty 
equal to the number of Physical Traits the caster had when the cantrip was cast 
+ the number of Bunk Traits gained in casting; each successful test does one 
level of damage to the ice. Supernatural strength and damage enhancement 


characters on the outside may help chip away at the ice as well. A Crystal Prison 
has a number of health levels equal to the Bunk Traits gained in the cantrip 
casting, plus an additional health level for each Glamour Trait the caster spends 
when the cantrip is cast. Characters who are completely encased begin taking 
suffocation damage on the third round of imprisonment - 
one automatic level 
of lethal damage every turn until the target’s head is somehow freed. An 
imprisoned character’s head is considered free after one half of the prison’s 
health levels (round down) are gone, though they still must break away the rest 
of the ice before full movement is possible. Left on its own, a Crystal Prison lasts 
until the ice melts or the caster wills it to end. At the caster’sdiscretion, she may 
choose to single out an area of a target - 
a gun hand, the target’s feet, etc. - 
but all such specific challenges are at a one-Trait penalty due to the exact 
concentration required. 
Type: Wyrd 
Advanced 
Coldheart: Like Crystal Prison, this Art effectively freezes a target in place; 
where the former works on an external basis, though, Coldheart goes much 
deeper, placing the target in a form of suspended animation by freezing them 
from the inside out. Those frozen by this Art are thus immune to poisons, gases 
and other toxins, have no need to eat or breathe, and effectively do not age 
during the time they remain in suspended animation. However, due to the frost 
that pervades their body, they become brittle and take twice the normal 
amount of damage from all physical attacks, as well as an extra level of damage 
(added before any doubling occurs) from all fire-based attacks. Against unwilling 
targets, this Art lasts for one scene per Bunk Trait gained in casting and costs 
two Glamour Traits to activate. Used on willing targets, including the caster 
herself if applicable, this power has the same cost but lasts up to one month per 
Bunk Trait gained in casting; in addition, the caster may also invoke additional 
Realms to stipulate “reawakening” conditions that will break the cantrip before 
that time. For example, by adding the Actor Realm to her cantrip, the caster can 
stipulate that she be awakened whenever a certain person approaches. Finally, 
the caster may also attempt to make the cantrip permanent by spending a 
permanent Glamour Trait; if successful, the only things that can break the spell 
are the caster’s desire, any Realm stipulations she adds during casting or the kiss 
of a true love, none of which are very easy to come by in most such dire 
instances. 
Type: Wyrd 
Oneiramancy 
The return of the Art of dream-weaving has had a mixed response among 
the fae. While a small network of changelings kept it alive on Earth after the 
Shattering, those knowledgeable of such things can directly trace its newfound 
popular resurgence to the return of the Thallain, which causes them no end of 


while there are inieed many changelings who use this Art for benign purposes, 
none dispute its power or its potential to cause serious harm in the wrong hands. 
Known practitioners are watched closely for signs that they might be abusing 
their power. Fortunately, this Art is very subtle and requires a great deal of 
preparation, but clever users can be absolutely devastating when they get their 
Arts working to full effect. 
Art Note: Except where noted, all uses of the Oneiromancy Art require that 
the caster first have an item of personal significance to the target, although a 
bit of hair or similar voodoo-type piece of sympathetic material works as well. 
This item must first be “primed” with a Glamour Trait, followed by a number 
of Simple Tests equal to the caster’s permanent Glamour rating; the number of 
tests won or tied equals the number of cantrips that can be cast using that item, 
with a minimum of one use per item. After that many cantrips have been cast 
through it, the item fades into the Dreaming for good, and another item must 
be found before Oneiromancy can be used on that target again. In addition, the 
caster must have observed the target at some point during the preceding day 
(supernatural scrying counts). 
Type of Challenge: Mental 
Basic 
Oneirodynia: At the most basic level, the caster can send his target 
dreams; how the target’s mind interprets the specifics of the dream is largely 
uncontrollable, though the caster may dictate the general type of dream, as well 
as a single “image” that he wishes the target to remember upon waking (a sight, 
smell, name, melody, etc.). The caster’s control over the dream’s direction is 
limited to anything generally definable in two to three words or less - 
“fear of 
falling,” “sexual fantasy,” “naked at school” and so on. These dreams last for one 
night per Bunk Trait the caster earns minus the target’s Willpower (minimum 
of one night). Use the chart for the End of Enchantment (see The Shining 
Host, page 178) to determine how much of the dream the target remembers in 
addition to the image chosen by the caster. If the target is awake, this Art can 
be used as a kind of crude one-way telepathy by sending dream images 
containing the message the caster desires, though they must still be fairly simple 
concepts, and the caster cannot state their intended message outright, only 
describe the image sent and hope their target understands its meaning. These 
waking dreams are not distracting enough to incur a Trait penalty to the target, 
nor can the target answer without appropriate Arts. 
Type: Chimerical 
Embrace of Morpheus: Those who learn this Art begin to loose the 
delicate bonds tethering minds to the waking world, placing their target into 
a deep, dream-filled sleep. This power thus serves a double function for most 
Oneiromncers: helping to ensure that a particular target has a night of dreams 
their Art can exploit, as well as providing a means of escape when trouble 


to directly harm or otherwise abuse those put to sleep by this Art breaks tie 
cantrip immediately and allows the target full reaction time. Even those casters 
who simply try to transport the sleeper sometimes find that the Dreaming spirits 
their target away to a safer place, if their reasons for moving the target are less 
than honorable. This Art costs one Glamour Trait to use and lasts for one full 
sleep cycle against mortals or one hour/scene (whichever is longer) against 
Kithain or Prodigal targets. Targets may also be awakened by other characters 
before the cantrip time expires, but it requires a number of turns equal to twice 
the Bunk Traits gained in casting. 
This Art does not require a link to the target. 
Type: Wyrd 
Intermediate 
Oneirocritia: Having mastered the Art of “dream reading,” the change- 
ling can see the contents of a target’s dream as they occur, providing a clever 
caster with no end to the amount of blackmail material and other juicy 
information. Cloaked as it is in the bizarre and highly symbolic language of 
dreams, however, the Storyteller is strongly encouraged to reveal the informa- 
tion in bits and fragments, perhaps even requiring an additional Enigmas or 
Gremyre Test to decipher the secrets being presented. Each BunkTrait gained 
in casting allows the caster to read the target’s dreams for one hour; generally, 
no more than one interpretation test may be made per hour, and no more than 
one secret or piece of information may be earned for each test. Of course, the 
Storyteller is also within her rights to state that a target may only have a certain 
number of secrets revealed that night, or even none at all. When used against 
other players, this Art allows the caster to have the Storyteller ask the target 
one question per successful interpretation test about a topic observed in the 
target’s dream. The target must answer honestly. 
Type: Chimerical 
Oneirataxia: This terrifying Art allows the changeling to blur the line 
between dream and waking for the target, causing the target’s innermost 
fantasies and nightmares to intrude on their daily lives. This Art costs two 
Glamour Traits to use and essentially creates self-perpetuating chimera visible 
only to the target (although anyone who makes a successful Kenning Test can 
catch a glimpse of these phantoms), which then hound the unfortunate soul 
relentlessly for the duration of the cantrip. Changelings and kinain suffer the 
effects for one scene or hour, whichever comes first. Mortals and Prodigals are 
haunted until the next sunrise, however, though Prodigals can cut this to an 
hour with the expenditure of Willpower Trait. These chimera are entirely 
insubstantial, even to changelings, and cannot cause any actual harm, but they 
are exceedingly distracting, to say the least. Due to the constant irritation and 
distraction these chimera cause, targets are at a one-Trait penalty on all actions 
for the duration of the cantrip and should roleplay the interaction with the 
Dhantom chimera as best thev can. The exact nature and amearance of these 


provide suggestions that are appropriate to their character - 
after all, only they 
will usually see them anyway. 
Type: Chimerical 
Advanced 
Syncope: At this level, the changeling can enter the dreams of a target and 
interact with the dreamer, even creating temporary chimera or shaping the 
appearance of the dream as he desires (though not controlling the dreamer’s 
reaction to it). Benevolent casters use this Art to walk in the dreams of friends 
and allies, offering advice and strength to those in need; darker legends, 
however, whisper of succubi, incubi and other night hags who would use this 
Art to steal the breath of dreaming victims. To begin either use, the caster must 
spend a Glamour Trait and cast the cantrip; success means that the character 
may enter the target’s dreams and converse with that target if he desires. The 
caster may also spend Mental Traits to alter, remove or create different features 
of the dream (change the setting from the target’s house to a local mall, make 
the target’s worst enemy appear, take away the weapon in their hand, etc.); one 
such change may be made per Mental Trait. Sleeping fae may make a Mental 
Test with the Kenning Ability to detect an intruding character in their own 
dreams or those of someone they are observing; if successful, they may then 
make a Willpower Test against the caster, with success ending the cantrip 
immediately. Only one such detection challenge may be made per use of this 
cantrip. 
The real power of this cantrip, however, is the ability to transfer Glamour 
or life energy between the caster and the target. By spending an additional 
Glamour Trait, the caster may take a number of Glamour or Physical Traits 
from his target, up to a maximum number equal to the Bunk Traits gained in 
casting; targets cannot provide more Traits than they actually have, nor can 
they be reduced below one Physical Trait in this manner, but the caster may be 
boosted above his regular Trait maximums with these stolen energies. Such 
stolen energies last until spent or until anumber of days equal the original Bunk 
Traits have passed; during this time, the target cannot restore lost Physical 
Traits, even with Willpower, though Glamour can be regained normally. The 
process for the caster giving energy to the target works exactly the same way in 
reverse, including all the same restrictions, and lasts for the same duration. 
Type: Wyrd 
Expiation: This Art is truly the stuff that dreams- and nightmares - 
are 
made of. With this demanding power, the caster can actually transform a target 
into a chimera. In the case of truly powerful castings, this process can even be 
made permanent, trapping the target in the world of dreams forever. While 
benevolent changelings use this power to preserve items that might otherwise 
be destroyed, it is whispered that dark fae use this Art as the ultimate 
punishment for those who offend them, banishing them into the nightmare 


-
-
 
additional two Traits up to defend against this Art. If the cantrip is successful, 
the duration of the transformation depends on the number of Bunk Traits 
gained in casting: one Trait equals one hour, two Traits gets one day, three 
Traits is ah11 week, four Traits is amonth, five Traits is ayear. Six or more Traits 
- 
possible only by spending a Glamour Trait for an additional Bunk during 
casting - 
enables the caster to make the cantrip permanent, though against a 
sentient target this use costs the caster a permanent Glamour Trait as well. 
Chimera created in this fashion do not normally have any special abilities, 
though any fae or Prodigals transformed by this Art automatically develop 
powers that mimic their previous supernatural powers. 
This Art cannot be reversed to bring a chimera into reality, however. 
Type: Wyrd 
Prerequisite Art: Syncope 
Infusion 
The Art of advanced construction and modification, lnfusion allows the 
caster to craft truly impressive chimerical inventions, including those normally 
forbidden to the nocker Birthright and similar powers (such as devices requiring 
electricity or chemical reactions). Although lnfusion is still practiced primarily 
by nockers, others have also managed to learn the basics of this Art, such as 
boggans, eshu and sidhe of House Dougal, though the nockers jealously guard 
the higher levels and few of the other kith make any progress at all without a 
nocker watching over their shoulder. Unfortunately for everyone concerned, 
the Thallain goblins also have an knack with this Art, and like nockers need 
no teacher to grasp its principles until they reach the very highest levels 
(Animantis and Gilgul). 
It is important to note that this Art recognizes four types of chimera: 
Incidental, Dreamed, crafted, and forged. Incidental chimera are things like a 
passing daydream or a changelings voile, flimsy and normally incapable of being 
used for any real purpose; Dreamed chimera are somewhat hardier, being 
formed of persistent dreams and fears, but still unable to withstand much abuse. 
Crafted chimera are commonly created through use of the nocker Birthright 
and Abilities like Crafts and Repair, and require a minimum of one Glamour 
Trait to manipulate. Forged chimera are the most resilient of all, born of pure, 
molten dreams, and only nockers and sidhe of House Dougal with this Art are 
capable of creating them. Note that this Art does not replace the nocker 
Birthright, but rather enhances it, going beyond its normal limitations and 
bolstering its strengths. Crafting most common tools, armor and weapons does 
not require Infusion, but truly complex, powered or intelligent creations are the 
province of this Art. 
Type of Challenge: Mental 


Harden: By spending a Glamour Trait and casting a successful cantrip, the 
caster can “harden” inanimate, Incidental chimera, making them able to be 
forged or crafted like regular Dreamed chimera. This Art lasts a number of days 
equal to the Bunk Traits gained during casting, although it can be recast for 
particularly lengthy projects - each successive cantrip is one Trait up, 
cumulatively. Once properly forged or crafted, chimera modified by this Art 
retain such status until the item is destroyed or another user of this Art 
unweaves the cantrip. 
Type: Chimerical 
Toughen: This Art is identical to the Primal Art Oakenshield, except that 
when used on inanimate objects (such as materials a nocker is working on), the 
extra health levels are considered permanent until lost through some form of 
damage. Multiple castings of this Art are not cumulative, and recasting this Art 
on inanimate objects requires that they be “reforged” or otherwise taken apart 
and put back together. This Art is frequently employed to create armor of 
surpassing toughness or virtually unbreakable weapons, though those are far 
from its only applications. 
Type: Chimerical 
Intermediate 
FUBAR Generation: FUBARs are small, spherical, semi-intelligent 
energy fields made of Glamour that nockers use to power inventions that would 
normally require electricity or active chemical reactions to function, since 
Banality normally prevents such operations from working in the Dreaming. 
Once this cantrip is successfully cast, the user of this Art typically must also win 
a Static Mental Test using the Gremayre or Science Abilities to bend the 
FUBAR to his will and integrate it into the invention properly. The number 
of Bunk Traits gained in casting equals the number of Glamour Traits the 
FUBAR has, which often determines how many charges a weapon has, how 
long an itemcan function, etc. It is uncertain whether this Art createsFUBARs 
or merely summons them, and nockers have been known to debate the matter 
for hours. 
Casters who attempt to abuse this Art to conjure up FUBARs for the 
express purpose of slaying them and taking their Glamour quickly find that this 
Art becomes extremely difficult, if not outright impossible to use; or, in 
especially nasty cases, that the devices they invent have a nasty way of turning 
against them, even years down the road.. .. 
Type: Chimerical 
Required Realm: Fue x 5 (Dweomer of Glamour) 
Animantis: This bizarre and powerful Art allows the caster to imbue a 
device with a form of limited sentience, allowing it to carry out a small number 
of simple tasks. Quality is highly important - 
successful Crafts and Gremayre 
Tests, both against a difficulty of 11 Traits, are required to fashion an item of 


be gifted with some measure of intelligence!) In addition: the device must be 
physically capable of the tasks it is intended for or this cantrip is essentially 
useless; a bookcase cannot walk or carry things, for example, though a 
humanoid-shaped golem or “Glamdroid” might. Naturally, good ol’ nocker 
ingenuity can solve must such problems with a little sweat, a ton of hidden 
features and some basic robotics work, but that’s another sto ty.... Objects 
respond to the caster’s simple commands, within their capabilities: “Fetch 
this,” “Carry that,” “Guard this door” or even “Attack!” are all acceptable. 
Conditional or conjunctional commands such as “If those people start shouting, 
then attack them” or “Protect me and destroy the intruders” are too complex, 
however. Additionally, for each Bunk Trait gained in casting, the caster gets 
seven Traits that can be assigned to the following categories: Physical, Social, 
Abilities, health levels and Redes. Additionally, without at least one Physical 
Trait, the object cannot move or attack. Without a Social Trait, it cannot 
communicate. Without health levels, it is automatically destroyed by the first 
damage it takes. 
Type: Chimerical 
Required Realm: Fae x 5 (Dweomer of Glamour) 
Advanced 
Gilgul: The most sacred of creation rites, this Art imbues a target chimera 
or golem with life and true intelligence. While the results can be truly 
spectacular, the price of failure is high indeed, and in either case the caster is 
advised that life created is life that needs caring for. The process is twofold: first, 
the cantrip must be cast successfully, to open the channels between the caster 
and his target and allow for the necessary transference of mental energy. 
Second, the caster must succeed at a Static Test of the Gremayre Ability against 
10 Traits. If the second challenge fails, the player must immediately make a 
Simple Test - 
failure means that the target not only becomes sentient (and 
gains the normal number of Mental Traits that it would for a successful casting, 
as outlined below), but antisocial and dangerous, though the caster doesn’t 
necessarily know this until it’s too late. If both the cantrip and challenge are 
successful, however, the caster may give his creation a number of Mental Traits 
equal to the Bunk Traits gained in casting, plus an additional Mental Trait for 
each Glamour Trait the caster is willing to spend. Targets given life with this 
cantrip are loyal and friendly to their creator, and may learn any number of tasks 
in time. Humiliation and abuse may change these attitudes, however, and while 
they’re willing to defend their creator, all creations constantly sent ahead to 
check for traps or used as guinea pigs for dangerous experiments eventually 
rebel against their masters, often at the worst possible time. 
Type: Chimerical 
Required Realm: Fae x 5 (Dweomer of Glamour) 


195 
Hew Abilities 
The following are new Abilities. They are considered common knowledge 
and may be selected by beginning characters as well as existing ones. At the 
Storyteller’s option, existing characters may trade levels of old Abilities for new 
ones where appropriate - 
trading Bruwl for Dodge if a character just wants to 
get out of the way of things, for example. 
Academics 
You possess a level of education and general knowledge beyond rudimentary 
schooling. With Academics, you can express artistic criticism, debate the 
classics, consider philosophy and indulge in studies of culture. This broad 
Ability covers all sorts of humanities in learning. Academics allows you to 
recognize historical, art and cultural references. You can use Academics when 
working in such fields, when developing a critique or researching. Calling upon 
your Academics Ability may require a Mental or Social Challenge to determine 
your exact level of competence. 
You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art 
Criticism, Classical Stdies, History, Journalism, Theology or anything else that 
could be studied with higher education. 
Athletics 
A favorite of childlings everywhere, and still valuable to wilders and 
grumps as well, you are skilled in all manner of athletic endeavors, whether due 
to a background in sports or just personal talent. You can throw a ball, sprint, 
climb, jump and swim with proficiency. Your Athletics Ability is used for retests 
onmost formsofrawphysicalactivity: acrobatics, swimming, jumping, throwing, 
climbing and running. It does not cover evading attacks - 
that is the domain 
of the Dodge Ability (below). You may choose to focus on something you do 
especially well. 


When trouble rears its ugly head, you know how to get out of the way. 
Unhesitating reactions let you evade blows and shots, getting out of the way of 
injury. You can Dodge against any attack that you're aware of: diving for cover 
as someone fires a gun or twisting away from a sword, for instance. Dodge may 
be used as a retest when defending against an attack that you can see or 
otherwise sense coming, including cantrips with direct physical manifestations 
(Holly Strike or Pyretics cantrips that loose a ball of flame or bolt of lightning, 
for example), though subtler uses of those powers do not allow this benefit, nor 
do mental or emotional attacks of any kind. 
Empathy 
You are sensitive to the moods and emotions of people around you. When 
you listen to someone, you understand her feelings. You can identify with 
others and tell when people are lying or holding back while talking to you. With 
a Social Test and the expenditure of an Empathy Ability, you can determine if 
the last thing that someone said was a lie (although Subterfuge can defend 
against this). Alternately, you can attempt to determine the subject's current 
Demeanor. 
Etiquette 
Even though many points of etiquette have been lost on the mortal world, 
they remain alive and well in the halls of Kithain society, and you know the 
proper way to greet someone, when to rise and how to make introductions. You 
can holda toast with the best of them and keep your cool in any social scenario, 
from sluagh high tea to a redcap bar crawl. This is especially important when 
dealing with sidhe or other nobility, either as a peer or as a supplicant. The 
Etiquette Ability can be used with Social Tests to impress or blend in at parties. 
If you make a socialfauxpas, you may immediately expend an Etiquette Ability 
to negate the gaffe - 
your character knew better than to make the mistake. 
Expression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put 
pen to paper (or fingers to instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion and 
stirring imagery. You can convey message and meaning in your art, from 
symphonies to poetry, and whatever you write is both clear and moving. Works 
created with Expression x 3 or more have the potential to entrance particularly 
sensitive souls, such as certain fae or Prodigals. 
Note: Expression replaces Perfwmance for all applicable artistic forms: 
writing, poetry, musical composition, etc., and characters who took that 
Ability for those art forms may automatically trade their current levels in it for 
an equal amount of this Ability. 
Intimidation 
Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques for terrifying 
people into compliance. This could be anything from physical size, to a 
particularly frightening grin, to knowing which emotional buttons to push. 


.
-
 
Challenge, or with certain Arts, or even just by being a really good redcap. 
Stealth 
By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and 
quietly, you can evade notice or sneak past people. You know how best to take 
advantage of surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities 
for unnoticed movement are not lost on you, as you understand the uses of 
timing and diversion. With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can 
sometimes sneak past the notice of guards and searchers (who contest your 
Ability with their Mental Traits and Investigation Ability). You also use Stealth 
to augment the cantrips related to hiding and sneaking. 
@iskies talt-keys, singular: piskey) 
Although they do not have quite the same wanderlust as the eshu, nor the 
earthy wisdom of the satyrs, piskies are always welcome among their fellow 
commoners for their big smiles and bigger hearts - 
even the worst Unseelie 
piskey is more careless than actively malevolent, and there are very few nasty 
ones. Semi-nomadic, piskies enjoy setting up shop in a location for a year or 
two, sharing tales of past adventures and exploring their new surroundings, and 
then moving on to a new place when they feel they’ve soaked up enough of the 
local sights. Nimble and hard-working, they work any number of odd jobs to get 
by on the road, considering it just one more chapter in the great adventure story 
of their lives. Indeed, the more exotic the job, the better they like it, and those 
piskies who bother with such things as r6sumCs typically have the most eclectic 
ones imaginable. 
Piskies are quite sensitive to human emotions and can often be found 
working as intermediaries between a local court and the mortal world, braving 
the Banality of the job to keep mortals and changelings alike as happy as 
possible. They are especially close to children of all kinds and keep a close eye 
on childlings wherever they travel. Among their fellow Kithain, piskies are 
messengers and couriers, though their generally trusting (almost nayve) nature 
keeps all but a few of them from taking up related occupations like spies or 
scouts. Unfortunately, piskies also have tendency to walk off with things that 
aren’t theirs, a habit that ranges from annoying to downright hazardous; what 
saves them from more severe punishment is that most piskies don’t mean any 
harm, and most think so little of it that they quickly forget what they’ve done, 
reacting with honest surprise when their thievery is brought to light. 
In their mortal seeming, piskies tend to be slightly shorter than most 
mortals, with thin frames, bright eyes and light blonde, almost white hair. In 
their fae mien, piskies have glorious silver hair, which both sexes tend to wear 
long, and their eyes become even larger and more luminous. Their skin is often 


predominating. Piskies like any job that lets them travel and exploit their 
curiosity, such as reporter or carnival performer, although jobs that let them 
work with children are equally prized, and many piskies make memorable 
nannies or camp counselors for lucky mortals and childlings alike. 
Affinity: Actor 
Birthrights: 
Nimble: Fleet of foot and quick of hand, piskies receive a free Nimbk 
Physical Trait, which cannot be permanently lost. 
Human Bonds: Piskies relate well to mortals, especially children - 
they 
are considered two Traits up on all non-intimidation Social Challenges with 
mortals, and in addition to that bonus they receive a free retest on all such tests 
with mortal children. Piskies receive a free level of the Empathy Ability, which 
cannot be permanently lost. 
Frailties: 
Kleptomania: As nice as they are, if an item catches a piskey’s eye, he can’t 
help but try to walk off with it. Most have a particular type or group of things 
they find interesting, although some piskies develop no such habits. Whatever 
it may be, when confronted with an opportunity to steal something they 
consider interesting, a piskey must make a Willpower Challenge against five 
Traits to avoid taking it. Most Seelie piskies return things gracefully if they’re 
caught, since they seldom intend any harm by this habit, although Unseelie 
members of this kith are often a lot more possessive about what they “acquire.” 
Note that the definition of “interesting” doesn’t always equate to human 
notions of value - 
to a piskey, a pretty plastic bracelet might look more 
interesting than a diamond ring. 
Mew Glamour Systems 
Che Oragon’s Ire 
While not an especially warlike race as a whole, the Kithain number in 
their histories countless legends of brave heroes triumphing over terrible odds, 
sometimes seemingly by force of will alone. Likewise, the lore of every kith 
contains instances where individuals seemed to fight with almost divine grace, 
even if only moments ago they’d been green recruits or wracked with fear at the 
sight of their foes - 
eshu on the road, trolls defending a charge, wounded 
redcaps and pooka fleeing combat are just a few of the common themes of such 
tales, though any kith can manifest it in the right circumstances. Those 
experiencing the Dragon’s Ire are momentarily transformed, surrounded by a 
nimbus of crackling chimerical energy, their clothes stirred by a chimerical 
wind, their gaze at once poised and infinitely deadly to those who meet it. Their 
skill with their weapon is increased fantastically, though sometimes they have 
little need of it, for many foes simply turn tail and run at the sight. Even the 
humblest boggan becomes a force to be reckoned with in this state. 


players who are truly immersing themselves in the game and contributing an 
intense and dramatic edge to the combat they’re involved in - 
in short, while 
it offers definite game benefits, it’s intended to be something more concerned 
with drama than number-crunching. If a character is even seriously thinking 
about using it, it should be a point of high drama and excellent roleplaying. 
Those who try to abuse it for a quick power fix or to constantly bulldoze their 
opposition should be brought back in line quickly, lest the mystique of the 
power be lost for everyone. 
System: A character generally must have at least three levels of the 
Remembrance Background in order to invoke the Dragon’s Ire and can never 
gain more Ire Traits than the number of levels she has of that Background. 
Storytellers may also require some knowledge of Gremyre before the secret of 
this technique becomes available to a character. If those conditions are met, 
and the character is near death, protecting one he loves, or locked in intense 
combat with a personal nemesis and/or an obviously superior foe, the character 
may try to invoke the Dragon’s Ire. He then spends a Glamour Trait and makes 
a number of tests equal to his permanent Glamour rating; in the event of ties 
or possible overbids, compare his permanent Glamour versus his permanent 
Banality rating to determine success. 
For each successful test, the character gains one Ire Trait, which is then 
added to his Traits for all attack-, defense-, command- or intimidation-related 
tests for the remainder of the combat, and the player must describe his 
character’s fearsome appearance to all around him. Mortals and Prodigals must 
immediately win a Willpower Challenge against five Traits to stand their 
ground, and even those that succeed are still one Trait down on all tests against 
him due to the character’s intimidating presence. Kithain test against half this 
difficulty, round down, and suffer no penalty if they succeed, though they are 
still in awe of their foe. These Ire Traits last for the rest of the combat, though 
the fae may expend an Ire Trait at any time for a retest on an appropriate 
challenge; whether successful or not, this retest is considered the final retest of 
a particular challenge -no further retests or overbids are possible. Alternately, 
he may spend an Ire Trait to deal an additional level of damage with an unarmed 
or melee strike, though only one Trait can be spent in this fashion per successful 
attack. Ire Traits spent in this fashion are lost, however, and no longer count 
toward a character’s Traits for the purposes of resolving ties. 
Attempting to invoke the Ire is not without risk, however - 
if the 
character does not succeed on any of the Glamour tests to invoke it, he 
immediately gains two Banality Traits; furthermore, on any one test during the 
combat the Narrator may choose to put the character down a number of Traits 
equal to his permanent Glamour or Banality rating, whichever is higher, 
making it much more likely the character will fail that test. At the Storyteller’s 
discretion, a character may attempt to raise the Ire more than once per scene, 


invocation can be made. 
Example: Baron September is in a dire situation; the haughty sidhe is facing off 
against two vampires, and he and his comrades are already sorely woudd. 
Newertheless, he displays uncommon courage and s t u d  his ground, calling out his 
noble lineage as he enters the fray, and the Narrator rules that his heroic studqualifies 
fur an automatic test to invoke the Dragon’s Ire. The baron has fiwe permanent 
Glamour and four permanent Banality, and so his player makes five tests with the 
Narrator. Since his Glamour is higher than his Banality, he wins on ties as well. 
Luckily for him, he wins four of the five tests, and the baron now has four Ire Traits 
-for 
the rest of the combat, he is considered four Traits up on all tests he makes to 
attack the Prodigals, defendagainst theirattack, commandhiscomradesor intimidate 
the foul creatures. He may also spend his Ire Traits for a retest on any of those 
challenges, or to add an additional wound level to a successfulshike, although any Ire 
Traits spent these ways are lost for the remainder of the combat. The Narrator 
describes how the Unseelie lord is suwounded by an eerie aura ofbluej7ume and bone- 
chilling cold w i d ,  and the cuts his blade delivers begin to frost around the edges. 
Suddenly, the odds of the baron surviving the encounter - 
or at East dealinggn’ewous 
wounds to his foes before he dies - 
are looking much better indeed. 
Hew Oaths 
Oath of Silence 
I do pledge this day, with heart, mind and soul, that I will newer betray this 
confidence. Until the stones have crumbled unto dust, and the sea fakn a hundred 
thousand thousand times from the thundering heavens, this h g  will I remain silent. 
When the last star flares and fades in the night sky, leawing naught but blackness and 
this world is but a dream once more, this long will I keep my word. 
If something absolutely has to be kept secret, most Kithain use this oathor 
a variation on it - 
the dire consequences of its breaking are typically more than 
enough to deter others from spilling their guts. A Kithain must spend a 
permanent Willpower Trait to voluntarily break the confidence they are 
entrusted with; this penalty does not apply if the secret is somehow wrenched 
from the target by torture, telepathy or other situations of duress. Those who 
voluntarily break the oath also gain a permanent Banality as a mark of their 
indiscretion. 
Oath of Truth 
Although it may lmng tears or sorrow, burning rage or silent hatred, let the veil 
be lifted now. Let all see clearly and know in their hearts, that this I do speak without 
deceit or duplicity, but plainly and honestly as best I know how. This I do pledge: I 
shall speak the truth. 
On the opposite end of the Oath of Silence, this oath is used when it is 
necessary to convince another fae of one’s complete and total honesty on a 
particular matter; it is most often employed in Kithain courts as their equivalent 


matters. While it is understood whenused in an official context, most fae dislike 
being asked to swear it any more than absolutely necessary, and some even 
consider it an insult to their personal honor to be asked for this oath by someone 
they are close to, as in many instances it is tantamount to accusing them of 
duplicity. Those under this oath must tell the complete and objective truth as 
they know it about the subject in question - 
no omissions, biased statements, 
twisted words or other forms of deception are possible. Those who still wish to 
lie gain a permanent Banality Trait for each lie told, and are drained of Glamour 
until next sunrise or sunset (whichever comes first). 
Optional dunking System: Jester’s Rules 
While the Bunk system presented in The Shining Host was certainly a 
valid way of running cantrip casting, it is far from the only way. The following 
system, called “Jester’s Rules” for its emphasis on the entertainment aspect of 
Bunking, is not intended as a replacement for the old Bunk rules; rather, it is 
simply a more active and spontaneous way of looking at doing Bunks for those 
troupes seeking something a little different. Indeed, the system is specifically 
designed to encourage players to create Bunks that can actually be acted out or 
otherwise depicted in character, thus making the act of Bunking more real for 
everyone involved; as such, it relies heavily on player talents, creativity and 


.
-
 
made up and adjudicated on the spot, but it also tends to demand a bit more 
active roleplaying and prop use than is commonly required for Mind’s Eye 
Theatre. Nevertheless, if used properly it can really showcase player talents and 
ingenuity while simultaneously enriching the game environment. 
It should be noted that despite its various advantages, Jester’s Rules is not 
for every troupe, nor even every player. It’s a fact that all players like portraying 
characters who can do things they themselves cannot, to one degree or another; 
it wouldn’t be called roleplaying otherwise. After all, if a player is embarrassed 
to join his family around the piano but wants to play a character with an angelic 
voice, he shouldn’t feel discouraged from doing so by something as relatively 
minor as a Bunk system. Troupes are thereby encouraged to experiment with 
both systems to find what works best for them. 
Assigning Value 
The way Bunks are assigned Trait value in this system is very simple, and 
with some practice become second nature. One Bunk Trait is gained for each 
of the following conditions that are met, up to a maximum of five Bunk Traits 
for a single bunk: 
*One Trait automatically, simply for performing a Bunk. 
You’re making the effort. Go you! 
.One Trait for using an actual prop ur other physical representation as an 
essential component of your Bunk. 
These props need not be utterly precise, but should be an honest effort on 
the player’s part - 
it’s one thing to have plastic flowers instead of real ones, 
quite another to claim a single dandelion is supposed to be two dozen roses. Prop 
cards are acceptable only for those props that would otherwise be illegal to have 
in play (such as a sword). This encourages players to employ real props for their 


watching a lot of pantomime and card-flashing. 
*One Trait if the Bunk has a special connection to the target. 
Also known as the “voodoo clause,” this condition is met only if the Bunk 
prominently employs the old magical laws of sympathy and/or contagion. 
Sympathy is the law that like gives power over like -whether as literal as using 
a lighter to spark a Pyretics cantrip, or as metaphorical as putting on rose-tinted 
glasses for an innocent Aphrodesia Bunk. Contagion says that having a piece of 
the target gives you power over them - 
cutting a lock of hair to bum as part 
of a Holly Strike, or using a valued possession to Soothsay their future. This can 
and often is combined with the prop condition. 
One Trait if you act out the Bunk in churacter. 
In other words, if you actually sing a ballad in-game instead of simply 
announcing “my character is singing,” your Bunk is adding more to the 
atmosphere of the game, and this Trait rewards you for it. Note: Dangerous and/ 
or illegal actions such a stunts or violating the no-touching rule are still strictly 
prohibited. 
One Trait if the Bunk takes longer than a minute to perfon. 
Note that this is not cumulative per minute, but is cumulative with the 
Trait bonus if the Bunk winds up taking longer than an hour to perform. You 
must be actively narrating or performing the actions of the Bunk for the entire 
minute to meet this condition. (Remember, the average combat round is 
considered to last roughly six seconds, so to get this condition in combat you 
must Bunk for 10 rounds.) 
One Trait per hour, if the Bunk takes longer than an hour to perfom. 
If you invest this much time in calling up Glamour, you’re going to have 
some serious results, and this Trait represents exactly that consideration. 
Again, you must be actively narrating or performing the actions of the Bunk for 
the entire time, or this benefit is lost. 
One Trait if the Bunk is especially appropriate to your kith a d o r  chracter. 
Also known as the “calling card” or “points for style” category, this Trait 
should only be awarded if the Bunk is truly distinctive to a particular kith or 
character, such that other characters (not their players) would look at the Bunk 
and immediately say “that is so like a troll” or “only <name of caster> would do 
something like that.” The rarest condition of all, this should only be awarded 
for truly unique and memorable Bunks that capture the essence of a particular 
kith or character. 
Example: Steve is playing Cullen the satyr, love magician extruordimire. 
Feeling mischievous, he decides to chum the regal s u l k  M y  Tyrael into falling fur 
Robyn the rebellious commoner. For his Bunk, he swipes the My’s coat and sprinkles 
rose petals over it while singing his favorite Bany White tune. Steve has some time to 
spare, so he acts out the entire procedure in churacter, right down to the singing. 
What’s more, foreseeing a possible need for some good love magic this session, he 


to use. His Bunk is worth the following amount of Traits: he gets one Trait 
automatically forperforminga Bunk, plus another Traitfor usingprops (the coat and 
the rose petals). He gets another Trait for actually acting it out in character instead 
of merely nawating it, bringing him up to three Bunk Traits so far. What’s more, 
howeverJ he receives an additional Trait for a special connection to the target, since 
the ludy considers her coat a treasured possession; and finally since singing his song 
takes longer than a minute, he receives an additional Trait for meeting that condition, 
bringing him up to his maximum of five Bunk Traits. Lady Tyrael is going to have to 
deal with a powerful cantrip when she next puts her coat on, and all because Steve had 
some simple props and a few minutes to put them to good use. 
Remember, the usual restrictions about repeating a particular Bunk still 
apply- a character who tries to use the Bunks repeatedly find them giving less 
and less of a return until they no longer grant Bunk Traits at all. Players and 
Storytellers alike should take care to watch out for players trying to exploit the 
flexibility of this system or abuse the same props and actions, as this goes against 
the spirit of Jester’s Rules and is just plain bad roleplaying besides. 
Cantrips in Combat 
It is a fact of life that changelings eventually find themselves in combat or 
other stressful situations, where the time they have to perform Bunks is severely 
limited. On one end, there are players who feel that rules requiring Bunks to 
take a round or more are unfair because then they get skewered any time they 
try even the shortest Bunk in combat. Yet on the other end, one is also bound 
to encounter players who insist that during the average combat round their 
character can not only light a sword on fire and swallow it while dancing a merry 
jig as a Bunk for their Quicksilver cantrip, but still have time to attack that round 
as well. How does a reasonable Narrator split the difference between allowing 
changeling characters to use their magic in combat without also opening the 
door for those who wish to perform ridiculous Bunks in the middle of battle? 
The following are two quick and easy methods for resolving such disputes. 
Method #1: Fast-Casting. The Fast-Casting system allows players to use 
all manner of flashy Bunks in the middle of combat, but at the cost of overall 
power: under this system, no Bunk performed for a cantrip cast that same round 
can be worth more than two Bunk Traits, no matter what it might normally be 
worth under either the regular rules or the new Jester’s Rules system. Thus, this 
system allows the players to be as dramatic as they like but balances it out by 
ruling that their rushed manipulation of Glamour limits how powerful their 
cantrips can actually be. Of course, if the character is willing to spend longer 
than a round on a Bunk, he can receive a higher amount of Traits for it, but if 
he wishes to Bunk and cast a cantrip in the same round, he can never have more 
than two Bunk Traits. Remember too that unless a character has extra actions, 
his Bunk/cantrip casting counts as his action for the turn. 


six seconds of game time in Mind’s Eye Theatre, which gives rise to a very 
simple litmus test for Bunks; namely, if the player can actually act out the Bunk 
in the time it takes to calmly count to six, then the Bunk can be cast in one 
round and is worth whatever amount of BunkTraits it would normally be under 
either set of bunking rules. If the Bunk cannot be performed in those six 
seconds, she may still go ahead with it but will have to devote at least one round 
to it, during which time she cannot do anything else. This system is thus quite 
risky but potentially very rewarding if the players are quick or clever enough to 
devise Bunks they can use in that limited time, yet it can also backfire badly if 
they’re not careful. 
Between these two systems, most Narrators should find a method that 
works for their game and their players without sacrificing game balance or 
playability. 
T h e  &nbless Ounce: @ohtics 
in Concorbiu 
Kithain politics are a complicated dance of boons granted, favors owed, 
oaths sworn and deals cut in backrooms as well as the open pronouncements 
made in court. Complicating this mix are any number of romances, grudges, 
alliances, Shadow Court maneuvering, secret societies and other intangible 
factors lying just below the surface of a court, always just waiting to boil over. 
It is a common misconception of many Prodigals who learn of the fae to think 
of them as somehow harmless or inconsequential, at least when it comes to 
intrigue. Such misguided souls need only read of the histories of fae who waged 
war over a lover’s kerchief, boiled in oil mortals who displeased them or the 
ancient tradition of ritually sacrificing the mortals who stumble across their 
secret courts to realize that even the Seelie can be quite vicious when it comes 
to getting what they want at court. A fae court can be as bad as a room full of 
vampires or wizards when it comes to politics and intrigue - 
after all, when 
you’ve got countless lifetimes and nothing to do but play the game, why not play 
it for all it’s worth? 
Players seeking inspiration for the intrigue setting of a faerie court in 
Shining Host games should reference the actual historical courts of the 13th 
to 16th centuries, such fine films as Elizabeth (for the serious) or A Midsummer 


of cutthroat playfulness and whimsical seriousness that makes for the blend of 
a Kithain community. For those interested in the more romantic side of a faerie 
court in full swing, check out Branagh’s Much Ado About Nothing (for a court 
in peacetime) or Kurosawa’s Run (for a court at war), as well as the tabletop book 
Nobles: The Shining Host for Changeling: The Dreaming. 
Ultimately, it is up to the players and the Storytellers involved to 
determine how much politics and intrigue they want in their game - 
it’s not 
for all games, nor all players, but when used properly even just a little dose of 
it can bring home the realities of Kithain society, the feudal structure it labors 
under and the results it has on the nobles and commoners entwined within it. 
T h e  gull Measure of a 9ae: Status 
Status is the game term used to quantify the force of respect and authority 
that accompanies a particular character’s name, either from her inherent social 
status (as is the case with nobility) or the accolades given to great heroes or 
leaders, noble or common. The most common source of Status is from a 
character inheriting or likewise receiving a title in Kithain society, whether it’s 
a humble knighthood or the great responsibilities of an entire duchy - 
hence 
the benefits associated with the Title Background. However, some changelings 
manage to make a such a name for themselves outside of any title that they gain 
Status, and an increasing number of nobles are recognizing commoner positions 
in their households, which carry with them a certain amount of prestige and 
thus Status as well (even if the local Unseelie commoners mock those who “sell 
out” in this fashion). Thus, commoners may also gain Status for heroic deeds 
or acts of great wisdom and character; this is treated essentially the same as the 
Title Background for the purposes of running Status, though the character is not 
a noble -she has simply earned the respect of her fellow fae to the point where 
her name carries great weight. 
Commoners who gain Status in this fashion should mark it on their 
character sheets as Title (Commoner Status) xl or something similar, in order 
to show that it is not a“true”nob1e title but “merely”popu1ar acclaim. (For more 
on Status, see the Title Background description on page 90 of The Shining 
Host.) Common Status Traits are listed with the description of each rank in 
The Shining Host, but troupes should feel free to invent new Status Traits to 
suit their own stories and the reputations of the characters receiving the honor. 
A clever pooka commoner who saved her friends from Dauntain might be 
cheered as very Resourceful by her fellow commoners, while a powerful redcap 
warrior might have earned the Status of Feared with the other Kithain of the 
area. 
Gaining anb Losing Status 
Characters may gain or lose Status during the course of a story. With small 
troupes, this process falls entirely within the purview of the Storyteller. 


troupe exists to have Kithain in the game control gains and losses, with the 
Storyteller only monitoring (and occasionally arbitrating) them. 
Using Sf at us 
Regardless of whether it comes from a hereditary name, a bestowed title, 
or even just the acclaim from one deed, Status comes into play in one of two 
ways: permanent and temporary Traits. Permanent Status is recorded on the 
character sheet as either the Title Background or its commoner equivalent 
(described above), and is a measure of a character’s actual, formal standing in 
Kithain society. Permanent Status losses or gains are added or removed from 
your character sheet and are typically rooted in major shifts of both plot and 
character. By contrast, the loss or gain of Temporary Status has no true effect 
on Status, as it reflects just how good your name happens to be at the moment 
- 
just because people don’t like you doesn’t mean you’re any less a count, 
although it might have a more direct impact if the commoners revolt and start 
putting nobles they don’t like up against a wall. Both types of Status can 
fluctuate over the course of a story - 
a baron might be granted a duchy, for 
example, or a traitorous knight driven from his order. Temporary Status Traits 
can be represented with Status Cards (since they tend to change hands often). 
Even a commoner hero might lose his Status if he is discovered to have aided 
a notorious criminal, for example, or be raised to even greater glory by helping 
stop some great menace. 
You may bid a Status Trait instead of a regular Trait in any applicable 
Social Challenge. You may also choose to add them toyour Social Traits during 
any appropriate Social Challenge if Traits are compared. These uses reflect you 
throwing the weight of your reputation behind your effort and typically must 
be accompanied by a suitable remark or declaration in character. For example, 
a sidhe knight trying to scare off a foe might announce he was adding his 
warrior’s reputation by saying, ‘‘I am Sir Graystone, knight of House Scathach, 
the most Vuhnt warrior of the Duchy of the Delaware - 
begone, cur, or suffer 
the sting of my blade!” Be dramatic! This is your character’s reputation you’re 
putting on the line, and that’s never a halfway thing: You either succeed and 
reinforce it once more, showing your true colors for all to see, or you fail, and 
suffer the indignity of seeing even your finest measure fail to impress your 
enemy. Either way, adding your Status to your efforts should be an occasion for 
dramatic roleplaying, not simply Trait-stacking for fun and profit. 
It should be noted, however, that even if you do not advertise your 
reputation that directly, you must tell your opponent out of character when you 
wish for your character to use your Status Traits in these ways, since they may 
choose to ignore them if they like. They may be playing commoner anarchists 
who pay no heed to nobility, or another noble out to deliberately snub you, but 
whatever their reason may be, they do not have to give your reputation weight 
if they don’t want to, although mere ignorance of your reputation is no excuse 


simple boasting and has a game effect. Of course, such a disrespectful act is 
considered a serious insult in Kithain society, especially to one of the 
acknowledged nobility, and even if the character manages to win the test, they 
may well find themselves with a lasting and bitter enemy, as few forgive those 
who slight their good name in such a direct and obvious fashion. Quite often, 
such a snub is the direct precursor to a duel of some kind, and even if it wasn’t 
intended as such, it often ends up that way before long! 
Note: Keeping tabs on Status can become quite a chore for one Storyteller 
to handle. It is therefore recommended that troupes assign a special Narrator, 
called the Gossip, to keep a m’tten record of all important uses of Status: loans, 
snubs, etc., to prevent future arguments. Players should report Status changes 
to the Gossip as soon as the game permits. 
txamples of Status 
The following are some examples of the uses and benefits of Status: 
Temporary Status may be used to add to your Social Traits during an 
applicable Social Challenge. This does not include Art use, except for the 
Sovereign Art, unless the Storyteller specifically approves of such usage. 
Status is a measure of a character’s creditability. In any situation where 
it is only one changeling’s word against another, Status can be the determining 
factor. The same is true in the case of accusing another of a crime in which there 
is no concrete evidence. In all such formal cases, the character with the most 
Status is the one whose word is accepted by the court, though either party in 
a dispute may demand a duel or even a Fior to determine the truth or innocence 
of the matter. 
You may give temporary Status Traits to another character to show your 
favor, though the individual to which you give the Status must return it 
immediately upon the asking. In the meantime, the bearer may spend or lose 
this Trait as they would any other temporary Status Trait, and if this occurs it 
is gone for the duration of the story, so be careful who you support, lest they 
foolishly squander your good name or even wrap it up in some kind of scandal. 
You can use loaned Status Traits exactly as you would use your own, but can 
only give one Trait of Status to any one person in this fashion. This simulates 
a noble empowering someone to act on her behalf - 
“Stay thy weapons, I travel 
in the name of the Noble Lady Tyrael!”- or a commoner hero granting another 
character their protection: “Away with thee, villain, for I am friend to Vice, the 
most Feared redcap in the county!” Such loans are typically referred to as 
“favors” (as in “Lady Tyrael’s favor”), and are quite common in Kithain society. 
Permanent Status Traits cannot be removed or bestowed by mere game 
mechanics, only by the most momentous events of a plot and/or a character’s 
personal storyline - 
a Title is raised in recognition of exemplary service to the 
king, for example, or one’s Title (Commoner Status) as a commoner hero is 
destroyed in light of some shameful crime committed during the Accordance 


gains or losses are deserved, although the players may certainly contribute their 
in-character opinions on the matter, especially regarding the more flexible 
Status Background- if the commoner community in the game decides to stick 
by the aforementioned shamed hero, for example, the Storyteller may certainly 
factor that into her decision on how much Status will be lost. 
On the other hand, it is frightfully easy to take away temporary Status 
Traits from a target, as they are a manifestation of a character’s current 
reputation, and not truly tied to their ultimate station. By spending one 
temporary Status Trait of your own and spreading the appropriate rumors 
around the court, you may remove another character’s temporary Status Trait 
in the same fashion. Costly, perhaps, but such rumor-mongering allows the 
mighty to be brought low, if only for a time, though don’t expect such respected 
figures to sit still while such slander is said about them! 
flanks ana flriuileges 
What follows below is a list of the most common titles in Kithain society, 
as well as their holders’ most common duties and privileges; while these 
responsibilities may vary somewhat as one moves from kingdom to kingdom, 
the ones listed have remained essentially the same regardless of location. 
Also included are the terms used to address nobles of this rank. Please note 
that these terms are used only by those below the noble in station, unless a 
higher-ranking noble is feeling particularly generous (or patronizing). Thus, a 
count refers to a fellow count as “Count <insert name here>,” not as “Your 
Excellency,” though he would still refer to a duke as “Your Grace.” Finally, the 
typical treasures or symbols of office held by a noble are listed - 
these are not 
always treasures in the magical sense of the word, though they can be, but simply 
the symbols of office given to a particular noble when they assume control over 
a freehold or territory. These treasures also denote who controls a particular 
land, if more than one noble of the same rank occupies the land at the same 
time. 
King or Queen 
There are eight kingdoms in Concordia, and the supreme authority in each 
one rests with a king or queen, often with a prince or princess as heir apparent. 
The personality and mood of the monarch have an impact on the chimerical 
reality of a kingdom; a queen in love might cause her kingdom to bloom with 


u 
pall to the skies of hislands. This usu& hasno real gime effect, but should be 
evoked descriptively. Within her domain, a monarch‘s word is the supreme law, 
and only the High King or Queen may reverse his ruling or supersede his 
authority. In times of conflict, the monarch is the warlord of all armies in her 
kingdom. 
Players’ characters may not normally attain this level of Title, but it is 
included for the sake of clarity. However, with the appropriate expenditures 
and Storyteller’s permission, a player may play a prince or princess, so long as 
they understand the great responsibilities and limitations this places on them 
as well as the corresponding rise in status it confers. 
Formal Address: “Your Majesty” or “Your Royal Highness,” though this 
latter term is typically reserved for a prince or princess. 
Royal Treasures: Crowns, which allow them to know the location of all 
pennons (territory markers) in the kingdom; scepters, which allow them to 
draw Glamour from any hearths of balefire in the kingdom; seals that can 
countermand any ducal imprints; and a weapon, which is considered an 
extension of royal will. 
Duke or Duchess 
Often considered the rough equivalent of a mortal governor, at least when 
they lay claim over territories, these are the highest nobles under a king or 
queen, and usually the highest any commoner will encounter outside of great 
festivals or other events. Dukes usually rule over entire cities or large rural areas, 
and can count up to five counts and barons as vassals, who then rule individual 
freeholds in their name. Some dukes serve their monarchs as diplomats, moving 
about on various missions of state, typically those that require great subtlety and 
tact. In wartime, dukes and duchesses serve as generals and marshals for their 
monarch, commanding specific armies. They are typically considered fair, if 
distant, and accorded much respect for their station and power. 
Formal Address: “Your Grace.” 
Royal Treasures: Signets, which allow them to sign treaties, assign 
lands, make proclamations and issue writs; these contracts are legally binding 
only within ducal fiefs. Pennons, or standards emblazoned with their coat of 
arms, which allow them to establish freeholds as their personal fiefs, and which 
supersede any count’s claim. Hearthstones, which allow them to draw Glamour 
from any hearth in their fief. Lastly, a weapon which symbolizes their right to 
command royal armies. 
Count or Countess 
Though ranked below dukes and duchesses, these nobles are nonetheless 
considered powerful in their own right, and thus have a reputation as schemers 
and social climbers, whether deservedly or otherwise. They typically control a 
significant area of a city, or a respectable tract of outlying land, and can hold 
the fealty of one or two barons and perhaps a few powerful knights. The rest of 


the nobility keeps a close eye on nobles of this rank, especially those that do not 
claim lands for themselves, as such roving counts and countesses can easily be 
up to mischief. Nonetheless, their status in the middle of the nobility also 
makes “unattached” nobles of this rank desirable as agents of both commoners 
and nobles alike, since they are fairly powerful yet still fairly close to the 
common kith as well, and so they may undertake a wide variety of missions. In 
wartime, they serve as subcommanders, regimental organizers and rear-support 


warriors. 
Formal Address: “Your Excellency.” Counts are occasionally called 
earls, although women holding this title are still called countesses. 
County Treasures: Pennons, which can be used to identify their 
counties and supersede those of baronial rank or lower; hearths, which they can 
demand tithes of dross from their vassals to help feed; and a weapon, used in 
service to their superiors. 
Baron or Baroness 
Closest to the commoners of all the “land-holding” nobles, most barons 
enjoy a good reputation with their subjects but resent the nobles above them 
as distant or uncaring for the plight of everyday kith. Some covet the powers 
of other nobles and seek to climb the ladder, but many are content with their 
fiefdoms, which usually consist of a single freehold in a city or a small town 
outside of one. Nobles of this rank without claim to land typically serve as 
commoner liaisons and perform other less-glamorous (but still vital) functions 
for their fellow nobles. Baronies typically include three or four knights as 
vassals, and perhaps a few other knights-errant with no other loyalties. 
Formal Address: “Lord” or ‘Zady” is appropriate. Some baronesses 
prefer to be called baronets, though this is far from common. 
Baronial Treasures: Barons and baronesses have only their own hearths 
and their weapons. They do have a right to gather Glamour in their fiefdoms 
and may demand small tithes of dross from their knights. 
Knight or Lady 
At once a title and a state of honor, this is the lowest “official” rank of the 
nobility, and knights form the backbone of faerie society, acting as warriors, 
champions and couriers for their lords. A knight may occasionally hold a 
freehold in the name of her lord, though this is rare and can be reversed at any 
time at the whim of her lord. 
Formal Address: “Sir” or “Lady,” though some female knights prefer the 
title “Dame,” especially warrior knights. 
Knightly Treasures: A knight’s chosen weapon is the symbol of her 
honor, an extension of her personal will and protection; legend holds that so 
long as she remains true to her lord, her weapon will never break. 
Squire 
Not truly nobility, squires act as personal servants to nobles (often 
knights). While they may earn great honor fighting alongside their masters, in 
general they perform support duty - retrieving weapons, chasing down 
wayward mounts and the like. Off the field, they run errands, help maintain a 
noble’s gear and perform other menial tasks for their masters. This is considered 
the rank of nobles-in-training among the sidhe, though it is the highest rank 
that many commoners ever receive, and most sidhe are raised in station after 
a suitable training period has passed. 


acceptable. “Hey, you” is far more popular. 
Treasures: None, though they may receive a small allowance of dross 
from their patron and are expected to keep their dress and equipment well 
tended and in good working order at all times. 
Retainers 
Not all the Kithain interested in the interplay of the noble courts are sidhe, 
or even members of the true nobility at all - 
many nobles employ a host of 
other servants, known as retainers, to carry out all manner of tasks vital to their 
fiefdoms. Many of these responsibilities are fairly mundane, but wily commoners 
can parlay even the most trivial-seeming duties into sources of great power and 
influence if they are clever enough about it. Thus the traditional balance of 
power between nobles and their retainers -while the positions of the retainers 
exist only at the sufferance of the nobles, at the same time few nobles have the 
patience or skills necessary to fulfill all the tasks retainers are employed for, and 
thus do their best to keep these servants happy while still keeping their power 
in check. 
In theory, retainers are paid with allowances of dross- the going monthly 
rate is roughly one piece of dross per minimum number of Status Traits needed 
to truly fill the position. Thus a chancellor would receive three pieces of dross 
per month, while a herald would receive one. Looking at this math, it’s easy to 
see how few nobles can afford to pay a full-time staff, at least with dross, and thus 
the beginning of courtly intrigue as retainers receive favors, Influence, 
information and other boons in lieu of regular payment, which in turn leads 
retainers to compete for the best favors from their master, and so on. As only 
the largest courts typically employ a full spread of retainers, and even then only 
when they feel a need for the type of retainer in question, competition for those 
few positions available can get quite fierce, and those with such appointments 
tend to guard them jealously. 
Remember, however, that the nobles of the game have the ultimate 
authority over which retainer positions are available - 
if the local count 
doesn’t feel the need for a seer, it doesn’t matter how wise or magically 
proficient a character may be, they’re still not going to get the position. Of 
course, if they can convince the count to see the wisdom in their words, that’s 
another story, but in no instance should a player be forced to create a position 
simply to satisfy a power-hungry gamer. Retainers should add flavor and 


of some kind, and so should be used sparingly, preferably when a need is present 
and worthy candidates make themselves known. 
Storytellers, note: As mentioned before, just because these positions exist 
does not mean they must be filled, or that all those who do must meet the 
minimum Status required for full investment. Indeed, the vast majority of 
retainers are not invested and still perform their duties quite capably. The 
benefits for full investment are designed to reward and encourage players who 
work for these positions of respect, not to allow players to min-max their 
characters into unstoppable courtiers, or for that matter to allow players with 
sidhe characters to give their commoner friends plum jobs at the expense of 
others. 
System: Any character can occupy any position. All it takes is the blessing 
of the appropriate noble, and they may begin carryingout their duties normally, 
so long as they understand that nobles may dissolve the position or countermand 
any retainer’s orders at will. A character may occupy only one position at a time, 
regardless of their Status. However, if a character has as many or more Status 
Traits as the minimum number listed along with the position, they receive a 
special benefit or two, called an Investment. Consider it a gift for having a solid- 
enough reputation to truly assume the mantle of the position. For example, any 
fae can be named chancellor, but only one considered quite worthy by their 
peers (at least three permanent Status Traits) really seems to wear the mantle 
with complete authority, and those that do earn a little extra benefit when 
dealing with others because of it. At the Storyteller’s discretion, sidhe characters 
may fill some of these positions, though most would find them hideously 
undignified. 
Note: Retainers are not nobility, no matter how much Status they might 
have, and so are still covered by the first level of the Fm Realm (Hearty 
Commoner) for all cantrips. 
Heralds 
Messengers and diplomats, heralds enjoy a certain amount of diplomatic 
freedom as long as they remember to mind their betters, and many have 
treasures or cantrips that allow them to travel quickly. Their wandering ways 
also allow many of them to serve as spiesfor their lord, since they frequently mix 
with all manner of crowds without suspicion. In times of danger, they are 
responsible for helping raise commoner armies. 
Investment Minimum: 1 
Investment: Formally recognized heralds may add or subtract one tempo- 
rary Status Trait to another character per session at no cost to themselves, 
simply by spreading word (true or not) of that person’s deeds or misdeeds. 
Seers 
Recognized for their mastery of the faerie Arts, seers act as magical advisors 
to their lords and keep watch over the chimera of the land. They also perform 


Their mastery of magic makes it difficult for many to trust them, though in their 
defense most are aware of this reputation and are scrupulously honest because 
of it. 
Investment Minimum: 2 
Investment: By offering their magically ordained blessing to an indi- 
vidual, the seer may put that person one Trait up on all tests against a particular 
mystical threat. This blessing is not cumulative, nor is it actual magical 
protection, simply a reflection of the person’s increased confidence in her 
ability to deal with the threat. Only one person or oathcircle may receive this 
blessing at a time. 
Chancellors 
Though some nobles scoff at letting “mere commoners” hold the reins of 
power as achancellor does, wiser rulers realize the advantages of employing one 
who knows the local freeholds and more importantly the common kith in this 
capacity. Chancellors rule in their lords’ absence, help defend the fiefdom from 
attack, and seldom abuse the confidence granted to them. In return, they are 
nearly as respected as their lords. Chancellors are called “seneschals” in some 
areas. 
Investment Minimum: 3 
Investment: Chancellors acting in the name of their lord are considered 
to have one more Status Trait than normal to add to their bid for any 
appropriate Social Challenge, as a reflection of their great respect. In their 
lord’s absence, chancellors may invoke their lord’s name and spend a Status 
Trait to gain a retest on a Social Challenge related to maintaining order or 
enforcing one of their lord’s edicts. 
Bards 
The storytellers and lorekeepers of the court, bards are long believed to be 
natural prophets and are considered the living history of the local Kithain. Most 
refrain from speaking during court unless performing or specifically invited to 
do so, out of the ancient belief that they might accidentally speak a dire 
prophecy. 
Investment Minimum: 3 
Investment: It is considered bad luck to strike a bard, at least when the 
bard is unwilling to fight. Those who attack a bard without provocation lose all 
temporary Status Traits for the rest of the session. Those without any Status are 
two Traits down on all noncantrip Social Challenges, due to the stigma this 
taboo carries. 
Jesters 
Although there are many wags and jokers in most courts, a true jester 
reminds others of proper behavior by breaking all rules of etiquette, and uses 
satire and pranks to point wayward nobles back in the right direction, giving 
them a graceful way of mending their ways rather than openly humiliating 


with sniffing out all things mundane and banal, and using all means at their 
disposal to destroy these things before they threaten the court as a whole. 
Investment Minimum: 1 
Investment: True jesters may remove any number of temporary Status 
Traits from a noble, provided he announces (out of character) his intention to 
do so during a formal court function and then makes an in-character joke - 
if 
the crowd deems it amusing in-character, the noble is chastised and loses the 
Status Traits. If not, the jester may not make another attempt on that particular 
noble the rest of the night. Care must be taken that the humor remains in- 
character - 
pointing out another character’s foibles is fine, but going for 
another player out of character is not! 
Troubadours 
Musicians, dancers and actors for the court’s amusement, troubadours 
(who are often, but not always, a motley themselves) serve to amuse the court 
as well as lead the rites of courtly love. Troubadours often serve as go-betweens 
for courting couples, passing notes, serenading lovers and otherwise encouraging 
love in all its forms. They may perform standards, their own pieces or even 
special works commissioned by their noble patrons. 
Investment Minimum: 1 
Investment: Troubadours with full court sanction may spend a temporary 
Status Trait to retest any Perfomumce-related challenge made before the court, 
and may loan all of their own temporary Status Traits to a courting lover for a 
single night if they desire (to reflect their artistic patronage and subtle 
encouragement). 
Scribes 
Often underestimated, these vital retainers transcribe all courtly proceedings 
as well as take down any memories of past lives, time in Arcadia or other 
important lore that court members come across. As such, they are fonts of 
knowledge for those patient and wise enough to seek them out. 
Investment Minimum: 1 
Investment: With their patient manners and old-fashioned quill-and- 
vellum style of transcription, scribes actually make it easier for others to coax 
out the kind of vital lore they seek. Provided they are explicitly acting on behalf 
of the court, a scribe may spend a temporary Status Trait to allow another fae 
to retest any Gremayre, Enigmas, Occult or Remembrance Test to recall or 
demonstrate any information that falls under the scribe’s domain. 
Stewards 
Although some nobles look on them as little better than pantry tenders 
and accountants, capable stewards are invaluable at helping to manage a 
fiefdom’s resources, chimerical and otherwise; if some of them are tad possessive 
regarding their domains, it is due to an excess of zeal in pursuit of their duties, 


influence than their humble responsibilities might indicate. 
Investment Minimum: 2 
Investment: Stewards who have managed a freehold’s resources for a 
month or more can coax an additional (temporary) level of Finance Influence 
out of it by spending a Status Trait, provided that they are using the fiefdom’s 
resources in pursuit of their lord’s orders. They may also spend a Status Trait to 
scrounge up a Glamour Trait worth of dross. They may spend any number of 
Status Traits this way at one time, but no more per month than their permanent 
Status Traits. Influence levels gained in this fashion fade at the end of the 
month. 
Reeves 
Liasons between nobles and commoners, reeves are invaluable in fiefdoms 
with large or hostile commoner populations and speak on behalf of commoners 
to nobles at court. Likewise, nobles give reeves proclamations to present to the 
common folk, so they’d best be friendly with them unless they want to 
experience the worst of the “kill the messenger” syndrome. There is typically 
one reeve per freehold, and a good reeve goes a long way to keeping noble and 
common kith in harmony; a wicked or negligent one can be a one-changeling 
civil war in the making. 
Investment Minimum: 2 
Investment: If addressing the court on an official matter on behalf of a 
fellow commoner, the reeve may spend a temporary Status Trait for a retest on 
any Social Tests related to arguing their case and is considered one Trait up on 
all such tests regardless. 
Thanes 
Commoner warriors, thanes have sworn loyalty to their lord, and together 
with the knights of the fiefdom are empowered to search for Glamour, battle 
chimerical beasts and otherwise defend the land. They are also the heart of any 
commoner forces in the area, and thane captains are renowned for their bravery 
and leadership in the face of terrible odds. Many thanes are veterans of the 
Accordance War, who swore loyalty in return for noble promises of better 
treatment for their fellow commoners. A good indicator of how well a noble is 
regarded by her subjects is how many thanes are sworn to her service. 
Investment Minimum: 1 (Thane captain: 2) 
Investment: A thane may spend a temporary Status Trait for a retest 
against any mental or emotional power that would cause him to abandon his 
duty, so long as he is directly engaged in loyal service to his lord at the time. 
Thane captains may also spend a temporary Status Trait to retest any Leadership 
or Intimidation Tests they make, so long as they are made in pursuit of an official 
assignment. 


Although it has changed somewhat from the more draconian methods of 
the past, Kithain justice is still fairly brief and to the point, especially when 
compared to that of their mortal cousins. After all, with binding oaths and 
magical means to aid in the discovery of truth, the outcome is seldom as 
uncertain as human justice, though it is far from as certain as most mortals think 
it would be, given those two factors. 
Commoner Court 
These courts deal with the “trivial” matters that the nobility doesn’t want 
to get involved in: petty disputes, minor theft, childling vandalism, drunken 
brawls, etc. They are typically based out of commoner freeholds and run by 
commoners as well, often a reeve or chancellor, with thanes or the odd knight 
to ensure order and enforce judgment. Tradition demands that a noble cannot 
be tried in Commoner’s Court, though it has happened from time to time. An 
accused may also choose to undergo a Fior rather than receive regular judgment, 
though this is rare at this level. 
Uasal Court 
Overseen by the local nobility (preferably seven judges, though fewer 
suffice if not enough nobles can be found), these courts hear crimes related to 
fellow nobles, as well as more serious crimes than the civil matters or minor 
complaints of the lower court. Thanks to recent reforms, the process ‘has 
become fairer than in times past, with the accused being granted a right to 
counsel (often the local reeve) and the ability to present a case. Once the court 
has rendered a decision, however, it is considered final. Those accused may also 
choose to undergo a Fior instead of receiving a summary judgment. 
Pior 
An ancient tradition of the nobility, the Fior, or trial by challenge, remains 
a fairly popular method of determining guilt or innocence, and Commoner 
Courts or even individual motleys sometimes rely on it as well. Ina legal setting, 
a Fior is always dictated at least in part by the supposed infraction of the accused, 
so that the test he must endure requires him to confront his sin - 
the more 
serious the crime, the more serious the test needed for exoneration. The actual 
nature and requirements of the Fior are as different as the circumstances of the 
crimes they are designed to test, and the Storyteller should work with the 
presiding nobles to help come up with an appropriate Fior for any character 
undergoing one. It is believed that the Dreaming is behind the outcome of the 
Fior, and thus those that succeed are considered cleared of all suspicion. 
This is not to say the Fior has a perfect record, nor that it is used in every 
case - 
some innocent changelings have died while proving their innocence for 
particularly heinous crimes, and unless there is enough Glamour invested in it 
by the judges and witnesses present, the presence of the Dreaming may not be 
strong enough to prevent particularly devious or dedicated souls from succeeding, 
-~ - 


Most witnesses gladly contribute Glamour to ensure the success of a Fior, which 
is another reason particularly heinous crimes are tried before large crowds, as 
it helps ensure true justice is done. 
Like most Kithain justice, Fiors are a time for high drama and powerful 
roleplaying. While considered barbaric and archaic by many modem Kithain, 
they still have an unsettling appeal all their own, and large crowds turn out for 
particularly famous (or infamous) trials. Whether her character is guilty or 
innocent, a player undergoing a Fior should understand the dangers involved, 
even if the Dreaming is on her side, and do her best to roleplay the ordeal as best 
she can without squabbling over rules. Her character chose this fate, after all, 
and it might easily be her finest (or simply final) hour, so better to undergo it 
as memorably as possible! 
System: First, the terms of the Fior must be declared publicly for all to hear, 
as well as the accused’s consent to participate. Second, all judges and any 
willing spectators to the Fior may spend Glamour Traits to help ensure its 
accuracy; judges may spend as many Traits as they like, while spectators may 
contribute one Trait apiece. If the character is innocent (this should be 
revealed privately and out of character to a Storyteller or Narrator), they are 
one Trait up on any tests involved in the Fior for every Glamour Trait spent by 
the witnesses. If the Fior doesn’t involve any direct tests, the Narrator (in the 
guise of the Dreaming) may substitute giving hints, suggestions or other helpful 
nudges on a one-per-Trait basis instead. This simulates the Dreaming steering 
the innocent character to success in the Fior. While it should not hand the 
character a victory unaided, it should definitely make her task easier. 
If the character is guilty, however, she is considered down a number of 
Traits equal to the Glamour Traits spent on all tests in the Fior; if this would 
reduce her below one Trait, she remains at one Trait but loses all ties and must 
immediately make a number of additional retests on any successful test she 
makes, equal to the excess Glamour Traits she has against them. If the character 
fails even one of these retests, the entire test is considered failed. If the Fior 
doesn’t require direct tests, theNarrator may again intervene in the guise of the 
Dreaming, but this time by creating setbacks, false clues and other problems on 
a one-per-Trait basis. These should not make it absolutely impossible, but it 
should definitely make the character’s Fior more difficult than it would 
normally be. 
The Orugon’s Ounce: Oueling 
While popular for centuries, formal dueling was on the wane among 
Kithain and mortals alike until the Resurgence and the return of the sidhe, who 
treasure it as a means of settling disputes of all kinds. While informal duels occur 
all the time, and can be anything from a reasonable contest to a back-alley 
brawl, true formal duels are governed by a system of rules and backed by the 
Dreaming, giving them a certain appeal as a means of settling disputes 


ployed in The Shining Host, duels should be viewed as the dramatic and 
exciting events they are, not just some ordinary battle, and participants are 
encouraged to roleplay them to the hilt, as it were. From the recitation of the 
oath (typically read by a witness and repeated by the duelists) to drawing of 
weapons to the final blow struck, it should be a moment of high tension and 
drama for all concerned - 
after all, it may well be a character’s last scene! 
First and foremost, duel challenges are generally issued only to those of 
equal rank - 
those above a changeling in rank may refuse such challenges 
without loss of honor (such quarrels are considered beneath them), though of 
course they may fight them if they choose. Challenges may be issued to one of 
lower rank to “teach the offender a lesson,” though those who do this too often 
are seen as bullying and uncouth. Nobles may appoint a champion to fight on 
their behalf, though this champion must be willing; technically, commoners 
have no such right, although in reality a particularly frail commoner is usually 
allowed to have a“stand-in,”and most nobles allow this for fear of being labeled 
as cruel or tyrannical. Both sides may also appoint seconds, typically oathmates 
who agree to witness the fight on a character’s behalf, as well as carry the dueling 
character’s weapons (and if necessary, his body). If possible, at least one 
impartial witness is also recruited, though the secret nature of some duels 
occasionally makes this impossible. The challenger names the place of the duel, 
while the challenged gets the choice of weapons. Any other rules - 
armor 
permitted, cantrip use, etc. -must 
be agreed upon by both parties concerned. 
System: Informal duels that involve no oaths are no more binding than 
their participants make them; however, all the duels listed below are considered 
oaths, and their conditions backed by the Dreaming - 
those swearing them 
who attempt to break any agreed-upon conditions of the duel (armor use, 
poison, cantrips, etc.) or voluntarily pressing the duel farther than its wording 
allows (trying to kill someone during a duel to first blood) are immediately 
struck unconscious by the Dreaming and lose a permanent Willpower Trait. 
Most also receive a mark on their foreheads that means “oathbreaker.” 
The Scarlet Trip: Aduel to first blood, typically fought with light weapons 
and little or no armor, which is used to settle relatively minor points of dispute 
- 
as duels go, anyway. 
Tonight we trip for honor and right. 
Gu& our hands, Mother Dream, as we fight. 
Fae are quick to anger, but quicker to mend. 
W e  swear, tomorrow our anger wilt end. 
The Dragon’s Dance: The most common and most honorable form of 
dueling, this duel is fought until one side yields; death can occur if one side 
refuses to yield (provided that is covered in the duel agreement), but the 
Dreaming protects those who attempt to yield. It can be fought with any 
weapons or armor agreed upon. 


And set loose the Dan, the Chariot of Dream and doom. 
The reigns of reuson slip as the star-hoofed horses race, 
And we hear the cackle of misrule beneath t&fiantic 
pace. 
Wide-eyed, the mares of terror 
us draw you near - 
Come, sweet Mother Drea ,” 
our hue, our lot, our fear. 
Danse Macabre: A duel to the death, which can only be officially 
sanctioned by a king or queen. It may be fought with any weapons or armor 
agreed upon; typically only chimerical death is sought, though in truly dire 
instances it may be fought to the death of the mortal form as well. 
We call for honor in deeds 
Let us rise above this petty seeming. 
Death to /he who fkes 
Before L 
power of the Dreaming. 
ance of Iron: Outlawed in Concordia and most foreign kingdoms, 
this d el is fought with cold iron weapons and no armor, and lasts until the 
death of the faerie soul as well as the mortal body. There is no special oath, 
though a shouted “Die and to Oblivion with your soul, bastard!” or a variation 
on it is quite popular. 
7 
5ecref 5ociefies 
This section lists some secret societies that can be made part of any Shining 
Host game. Most are open to players whose characters meet their standards, 
although others are best suited to Storyteller villains or other Narrator- 
controlled characters. Regardless, they offer a wealth of possibilities when it 
comes to promoting intrigue and other subtler plotlines, and they should be 
used to help explore the different layers of Kithain society, not just to offer a 
select group of players ultra-neat benefits at the expense of everyone else. When 
used properly, however, secret societies can be a great deal of fin, adding spice 
to existing games and helping new ones establish webs of allies and intrigue. 
The symbols and dress provided with each society are listed as a way of 
helping players who wish to take part in these societies do so in ways that are 
at once distinctive to those characters who should recognize them, yet still 
subtle enough that they do not immediately hang a “I’M IN A SECRET 
SOCIETY!” sign around the player’s neck. Unless otherwise noted in the 
description or by the Storyteller, information about a society’s dress and symbol 
is restricted to members of that society alone; other players may know what a 
particular symbol or accessory may indicate out of game, but unless it’s common 
knowledge or they find some other way of discovering it, they cannot act on it 
in-game. 


Though commoners can be found in most of these societies (even if only 
as spies andunderlings), the majority of the members are sidhe nobility, and the 
sidhe are the primary force behind the society as well. 
Cat’s Crable 
This all-female society of nobles works across the lines of kith and Court 
to preserve the existence of the fae as a whole. While they realize that some 
conflict is inevitable, especially with such a proud race as the Kithain, they 
work to keep bloodshed to a minimum and try to confine any loss of life to those 
responsible for the violence in the first place. One of the most secret of secret 
societies, their existence is not even whispered of beyond the small circle that 
they travel in, and because of the numerous laws they’ve had to break over time 
they prefer to keep it that way; while most of the members are powerful enough 
to remain free of the worst punishment for their “crimes,” the Cradle is smart 
enough to realize that were their existence made known, the resulting backlash 
of noble (and especially masculine) pride would set back the efforts of the 
Cradle by dozens of years, if not dismantle it altogether. So for now the Cradle 
works its ways in secret, settling disputes, recruiting allies (even among the 
Gallain and the Prodigals) and otherwise laying the groundwork to preserve the 
faerie race in the event of some disaster, great or small. 
Symbol: A plain wooden loom. 
Dress: Most members of the Cat’s Cradle take great pains to avoid any 
detection; occasionally, however, they wear a small white ribbon in their hair, 
especially if meeting a fellow member. 
Reb &ranch Knights 
Though a few courageous commoners have found their way into the ranks 
of this legendary order (and indeed a small number of them kept it alive when 
the sidhe retreated during the Shattering), for the most part it is solidly sidhe, 
as it was when it was founded millennia ago during the Age of Legends. Even 
the lowliest commoner anarchist professes a grudging respect for the bravery, 
integrity and combat prowess of these noble warriors, and if one of their order 
has broken his word, no one knows of it. They are all bound by oaths to each 
other and seldom seem to even disagree in public, presenting a united front to 
all threats. While a number of them are found as personal guards of the High 
King, their ultimate loyalty lies with the demanding moral code of the order, 
and though they do not expect quite the same high standards of those around 
them, they will not tolerate oathbreaking or other crimes and quickly abandon 
those who practice them. Red Branch fighters are acknowledged masters of 
unarmed fighting and archaic weaponry, though they understand the need to 
adapt to the modem world and now train with firearms as well. Politically, they 
are primarily Traditionalists, though the only real qualificationsfor membership 
are bravery and honor. Needless to say, the Red Branch is far from a secret 


political debate with equal ease. The only secret reserved for members alone are 
the oaths and assignments of the order, but except in situations that call for 
discretion, they take pains to be public and forthright in all things. 
Symbol: A red oak tree under a stylized sun and moon. 
Dress: Though they have no set uniform, red is always the predominant 
color of whatever outfit a Red Branch knight is wearing. 
6eltaine &be 
Villainy, thy name is sidhe. While many commoners would certainly agree 
with this, the actions and attitudes of these ultra-conservative sidhe in this very 
secret society would put even the worst imaginings of most commoners to 
shame. Living proof that the most extreme Seelie fae can be as bad, if not worse, 
than their Unseelie counterparts, the sole goal of these unrelenting bastards is 
to ensure the power of the sidhe nobility (read: themselves), even if it means 
undermining or “removing” other sidhe who are showing signs of weakness 
toward the common kiths. The Blade has a network of spies and assassins 
throughout the kingdoms and doesn’t hesitate to use them at the slightest 
provocation; they are even rumored to have been the force behind the infamous 
Beltaine Night of Iron Knives massacre, where a number of commoner leaders 
were betrayed and murdered with cold iron during the Accordance War. Their 
current leader is a Seelie mastermind, Duke Dray. Thanks to his ruthless 
leadership, the Blade has yet to taste of any major defeat, though not for the lack 
of brave motleys trying.. . . 
Note: Given their heinous outlook and power-hungry nature, it is 
recommended that membership in this society be restricted to Storyteller 
villains. 
Symbol: A scythe crossed over a wheat field. 
Dress: All members of the Blade wear gray prominently in their outfit, or 
at least some gray item such as a sash, boots or belt. 
Crystal Circle 
Many ballads feature the magicians of this society showing up at the last 
minute to save the day or helping a hero out with some mighty spell. While 
these tales are a bit exaggerated, it is known that only the most powerful and 
talented cantrip casters in Concordia are considered for membership in this 
august Seelie order. Like the Red Branch knights, who they are often allied 
with, this society has a very public face, though none outside of its ranks know 
anything about its goals or rituals. Likewise, while they aid those in danger and 
generally adhere to a code of chivalry and good cheer, they do not suffer fools 
long or lightly. What is known is that all members have mastered at least one 
fae Art (learned every level of it) and become quite adept at least one other 
(learned all of its Intermediate levels), making them some of the most potent 
society, and indee 
tide of a battle or 


fae will dare, though to what end no one knows. 
Note: Beginning characters cannot belong to the Crystal Circle. 
Symbol: A flawless diamond surrounded by a rainbow ring of smaller gems. 
Dress: Like their Red Branch allies, there is no particular uniform for this 
society, but they wear predominantly white regardless of outfit. 
Golaen Sickle 
This organization has but one goal for its members - 
the acquisition of 
earthly wealth and power. To this end, its member nobles (both sidhe and 
commoner) can and do use all means at their disposal: Arts, Influence, 
technology, mortal retainers, Prodigal allies, anything it takes to expand their 
power base. Because of their extensive contact with the modern world, most of 
these fae have a correspondingly higher Banality, but consider it a small price 
for the power their wealth offers them. The Sickle is a very informal, if still 
secretive, organization, and does not speak with one voice, though its members 
frequently make pacts and share tips with each other for mutual benefit. There 
are no membership requirements, other than that the individual be a noble of 
some kind and show a flair for the goals of the society - 
they take all kiths, 
Courts, seemings or political views. Though individual members may stray from 
even their loose system of ethics, the Sickle as a whole is not particularly 
malevolent, just dedicated to wealth, and often will use their great resources to 
aid their fellow fae whenever possible. 
Symbol: A golden sickle. 
Dress: Most members of the Sickle wear stylish, expensive clothes in both 
their mortal and faerie aspects, and some have taken to shocking their fellow 
nobles by wearing mortal formal wear to court proceedings. Most also wear a 
small golden sickles as a pin, cufflinks or earrings, as appropriate. 
Commoner Societies 
Unlike their upper-class counterparts, very few commoner secret societies 
have any nobles in them, except for the occasional ennobled commoner or 
sidhe from one of the outcast houses (such as Scathach or Liam); even were they 
to consider one for membership, most sidhe would not wish to consort with 
such “common” organizations. 
Ranters 
These malcontents hate nobility of all kinds. While they originally grew 
in opposition to the commoner nobles present around the time of the French 
Revolution, the return of the sidhe during the Resurgence gave them their 
ultimate enemy, and they have worked to undermine the nobles ever since. 
Organized like a resistance movement, the Ranters are composed of small cells 
of oathbound Kithain who have little contact with each other, the better in 
case one cell is captured. While there is certainly an Unseelie presence in the 


have indulged in, and so the majority of members are Seelie, if very dissatisfied 
ones. They are officially outlawed in Concordia but enjoy a good deal of popular 
support with the commoners thanks to raids they have made on various 
tyrannical nobles in the past. Needless to say, they refuse all nobles into their 
ranks. 
Symbol: A golden crown, broken in half. 
Battle Cry: “Down with Concordia! All Hail Discordia!” 
Monkey‘s OJUW 
When looking for top-quality spies and assassins, one need look no further 
than the vicious Kithain of the Monkey’s Paw, who have performed such work 
for hire since the time immediately following the Shattering. While 
predominantly commoner Unseelie in membership, the Paw is known to hire 
out to any group willing to pay its price, though rumors persist that the 
organization is also pursuing its own agenda, though if this is true only its most 
dedicated members know for sure. To qualify for this society, a prospective 
member must carry out no less than three assignments for the Monkey’s Paw, 
each more terrible than the last, and not only go uncaptured but completely 
unsuspected the entire time. 
Symbol: A severed monkey’s paw, with three fingers extended. 
Dress: Nothing specific while “on duty,” but occasionally they wear a 
small button or similar item with a stylized monkey on it, though never if they 
feel it will raise suspicion. 
Orber of @ianca 
Like the Ranters, the Order of Bianca has officially been outlawed, but 
most Kithain turn a blind eye to their activities, for the Order’s business is 
rescuing fae held in the clutches of Banality, no matter how terrible the odds 
may be. The problem most nobility have with the Order is not their goal, but 
that it has been known to stretch the truth a bit to be allowed into freeholds for 
the Glamour they need for their raids, and that direct confrontation with 
Dauntain and other Autumn People is generally prohibited barring some 
tremendous need, for fear of alerting such enemies to the greater Kithain 
community. However, all fae secretly cheer them on when they hear of another 
success, and admire the courage it takes to stare such great Banality in the face 
and fight on regardless. 
Symbol: A silver chain on a green field. 
Dress: Members of the Order always wear a small silver chain somewhere 
on their person, to show others their strength and solidarity. 
Minuf emen 
Many commoner societies evolved from a need for self-defense; the 
Minutemen are one such group, a small circle of fae who investigate tales of 


true, the Minutemen help spirit away members of the affected freeholds or 
motleys to safety, especially childlings and grumps, who often have few options 
when it comes to relocating. They then do their best to call attention to the 
unstable nobles and try to get them ousted in favor of a better leader. For the 
most part, the Minutemen work as subtly as they can, but if push comes to shove 
they’re more than willing to go toe-to-toe (or cantrip-to-cantrip) with the 
renegade nobles they’re battling, and so typically come prepared for all sorts of 
problems. 
Symbol: A stylized lantern. 
Dress: Some Minutemen carry lanterns with them, but those that don’t 
still try to work the symbol into something they wear. 
C h e  Low q o a b  
A kind of Unseelie cousin to the Minutemen, the Low Road also specializes 
in helping commoners -outlaw commoners, that is. While they have no time 
for true monsters such as murderers or Rhapsodizers, they delight in letting out 
the kind of louts that generally make life merry for those around them: brawlers, 
thieves, adulterers or even petty Ravagers. As soon as they hear of such a soul 
in need, the Low Road stages an elaborate jailbreak and helps the offender 
either clear his name (it happens they help innocent fae from time to time) or 
run for a new territory, as is more common. Thus far, these raids have been 
conducted with more humor and swashbuckling spirit than rebellious zeal, and 
no one has gotten hurt save for some cosmetic cuts and bruises; this is one reason 
the nobility, while outraged, has not pursued the Low Road too strenuously so 
far. Should their methods or outlook change for the darker, however, the Low 
Road could quickly become a favorite target of sidhe nobles across Concordia. 
Symbol: A black mask, or sometimes a silver cutlass. 
Dress: A black mask, either of the traditional domino style or a more 
practical one, is expected of all Low Road members while in the field. 
Veterans of the Accorbance War (DAW) 
Membership in this open society is quite simple - 
a commoner must 
either have fought in the Accordance War or been kin (real or adopted) to one 
who did. For the most part, this society acts much like its mortal counterparts, 
serving as a social backdrop for veterans to share stories, offer aid and otherwise 
cherish the bonds forged with each other during the war. For the most part, it’s 
a pretty cheerful society, full of good food, good drink and better stories, 
although on the anniversary of particularly nasty battles the mood can turn 
decidedly more melancholy. While it has no great goals, on an informal level 
its members will go to great lengths to aid each other however they can. 
Symbol: A double-bladed ax, surrounded by a ring listing the dates of the 
war. 


insignia of their unit to gatherings, in addition to the society symbol. 
Seekers of Lyonesse 
This mystical society follows a charismatic eshu, Badr a1 Din, whose 
prophecies of a gateway leading to a paradise realm called Lyonesse (thought 
to be part of Arcadia) have inspired many Kithain to take up the search for the 
paths he has spoken of. While other Kithain frequently dismiss the Seekers as 
nice if deluded souls, they truly believe in their cause, and along the way to 
locating their gateways many of them travel the world, talking to whoever will 
answer their many questions and otherwise growing in wisdom. All the lore 
they uncover is compiled, some say in a secret database, and members frequently 
work together to uncover some mystical secrets or unravel enigmas they 
encounter along the way. All kiths are welcome, even sidhe, as part of Badr’s 
prophecy claims the portal will ultimately be found be a pair of fae, highborn 
and lowborn. Whether or not there is any truth to their beliefs, the Seekers are 
a benevolent and energetic presence wherever they are found. 
Symbol: A green Celtic knot, which to them symbolizes eternal Arcadia. 
Dress: An enameled green brooch, worn on the left breast. 
‘Cis the Season -Kit hain Holibays 
The Kithain are still essentially a race born of celebrations and traditions, 
and no matter what changes may have occurred in the centuries, a good festival 
still sets even the most dour grump’s heart afire with fresh Glamour. The 
following is a list of the most ancient and popular Kithain festivals, as well as 
some of the most common contests and festivities held on these dates. Troupes 
are encouraged to come up with celebrations and ceremonies of their own as 
well. Don’t feel tied down, though - 
if a particular holiday wouldn’t fit the 
mood of the game you’re playing, feel free to “adjust” the calendar a bit. (For 
example, it might be hard to maintain the tone of a serious plot about the 
assassination of a duke during Pranksgiving.) 
Naturally, any and all of these holidays provide an ideal basis for Shining 
Host sessions, and given the busy holiday calendar of the fae, just about any 
month has at least one or two holidays a game could be organized around. This 
not only provides an excellent backdrop to stage regular plotlines and the like, 
but also serves to showcase the close-knit nature of Kithain society compared 
to some of their Prodigal cousins - 
fae may have all sorts of differences with 
each other, but that still hasn’t kept them from realizing the value ofcelebration 
and life. 
In addition to these dates, there are several other common causes for 
celebration among the fae that can happen at any time: a Saining rite, where 
a new changeling receives their faerie name and is welcomed to the Kithain 
community; the Togail an Ainm, where a childling or wilder “advances” to 


an investment or coronation, when a noble takes a title; weddings of the fae, 
which typically last a year and a day; a wake, wild parties where a fae who has 
died or succumbed to Banality is celebrated with stories, laughter and tears; and 
oathtakings, typically small ceremonies that celebrate those swearing oaths of 
fealty, questing or true love. 
Midwinter (January 13th) - 
A time when communities would assess 
their provisions to see if they’d last through the winter, the fae celebrate their 
Glamour in the face of Banality; if Glamour is plentiful, it is cause for great 
merriment, but if not it is a time for somber reflection. 
Traditions: Telling stories of times past. Renewing commitments. 
Imbolc (February 2nd) - A bard’s festival, Imbolc celebrates the 
rekindling of the light of Glamour after the chill of winter. Amid the many 
competitions of music, poetry and dance, riders from the High King’s court 
bring brands lit from the hearth of the royal palace to re-ignite the local 
bale fires. 
Traditions: Rekindling the balefire. Talent shows for various art forms. 
Carnival (February 28th) - 
One of the wildest parties of the Kithain 
year, this frenzied celebration celebrates a new year, as well as unity between 
noble and commoner. Traditional roles are reversed, and everyone gets a little 
bit crazy. The next morning all returns to normal, hopefully with everyone a 
little wiser for it. 
Traditions: A mortal is elected King or Queen of Carnival, while the 
current ruler becomes a jester, lowest of the low. For one night, the mortal 
(typically one heady with drink and/or Glamour) is absolute ruler, while the 
jester is heaped with abuse and ridicule. Carnival has three laws: There can be 
no revenge for any word spoken or deed done, including by or to the jester; all 
are welcome and safe, with punishment for violation of this rule decided by the 
King or Queen; and let merriment reign! 
Vernal Equinox (March 2 1st) -As another date balanced between light 
and shadow, the Vernal Equinox is the first of three spring celebrations of the 
Kithain, and most favored by grumps for its quiet contemplation of the 
possibilities of new life in the coming seasons, so close to the winter just passed. 
Traditions: Lighting ceremonial candles (if you do so for real, please be 
safe! ). 
The Greening (April 4th) - 
An informal yet merry festival, this is the 
second of the three spring ceremonies of the fae, and the one childlings most 
enjoy. It is a time of innocence and creativity, where the purity of new life is 
recalled. 
Traditions: Weaving garlands from grasses and flowers. Morris dancing. 
Beltaine (May 2nd) - 
The third spring rite and one of the two greatest 
Kithain ceremonies of the year, Beltaine is a nighttime fertility festival and 
belongs almost entirely to the wilders. In old times, the Seelie court would take 


Traditions : Singing, dancing, jesting, wooing and other amorous arts. Many 
freeholds even hold kissing or wooing contests, to crown a “Greatest Lover.” 
Faerie weddings. 
Midsummer (June 23rd) - 
Aside from taking in (or staging) a produc- 
tion of the delightful play that borrowed its name from this holiday, whenever 
possible, this is a time for the Seelie to celebrate their power, and grant favors 
to those in need. 
Traditions: Granting boons. Taking on quests. Recognizing new Seelie fae. 
Highsummer Night (July 17th) -Timed to take place at the hottest part 
of the season, this holiday is a time of great merriment and spontaneity, feeding 
off the “heat dreams” of mortals; it is especially sacred to the pooka, who refer 
to it as “Pranksgiving” and who compete to craft the greatest practical joke or 
jest. 
Trdtions: Pranking contests (pooka and non-pooka alike). Musing 
contests. 
Lughnasa (August 1st) - 
A festival of tasting the first fruits of the 
harvest, this marks the last great Seelie celebration of the year, where the sweet 
fruits of the spring and summer are savored for their contrast to the coming cold 
months. 
Traditions: Baking and cooking contests. Feasts. Completing quests. 
Autumnal Equinox (September 2 1 st) - 
The second day of balance, this 
time the shift is away from light into shadow, and as such is a favorite rite of 
Unseelie grumps, who use this day to plan the coming winter months. 
Traditions: Lighting ceremonial candles (if you do so for real, please be 
safe!). 
Pennons (October 4th) -A celebration of the military might and history 
of the Kithain, the Warrior’s Holiday is a chance for brave fae to prove their 
worth and vie for prizes in all manner of competitions. It is also a favorite with 
many craftsmen, who bring their wares to sell at these huge festivals. 
Traditions: Martial tournaments. Mock combats. Duels. Bardic contests. 
Displays of craftsmanship. Warrior memorials. Oaths of fealty, particularly for 
knights. 
Samhain (October 3 1st) -A night of dark revelry and the other highest 
festival of the year, Samhain honors the spirits of the dead and teaches all to 
embrace their Unseelie side, if only for a night. Forbidden passions are 
expressed, hidden lore brought to light and prophecies of the coming year are 
made. For more on this holiday, see the section on it in the Shadow Court 
chapter, page 110. 
Traditions: Masquerade balls. Scary story contests. Prophecy rituals. SCances. 


commoner festival mostly mocks the failed revolutionary yet also serves to 
remind the nobles that the commoners remember what royal injustices lit his 
proverbial fuse. 
Traditions: Costume dramas. Light shows and fireworks. (As with the 
candles, do not do anything dangerous, and especially nothing illegal - 
this is 
a game about make-believe people, and that includes make-believe fireworks 
if needs be.) 
Yule (December 23rd) - 
Also celebrated as the Winter Solstice, this 
longest night of the year is a night for the Unseelie to revel in their power and 
grant “gifts” to those they favor. Many Kithain have adopted similar rituals to 
the Christian Christmas ceremony and will exchange gifts both Glamourous 
and mundane in defiance of the darkness and chill in the air around them. 
Trdtions: Gift exchanges. Reflections on the year gone past. Recognizing 
new Unseelie fae. 
