I


B t f Gh l


I
Li
be
r
ties Goules
I
Credits
Written by : Glenys Ngaire McGhee
Additional Writing by : Richard E. Dansky
Development by : Richard E. Dansky, Cynthia Summers and Ken Cliffe
Editing by : Cynthia Summers and Ken Cliffe
Art Direction by : Lawrence Snelly
Interior Photography by : Niki Fridh, J . Lank Hancock & Ronni Radner
Front and Back Cover Design : Lawrence Snelly
Layout and Typesetting by: Lawrence Snelly
Models : Julian Draven, Becky Allen, Tim Kratz, Diana McCreary, Chris Mullins, Regeana
Morris, Amanda Raven, Jason Vaughan, Ace Ebele, Page Gleason, Dan Edmonds, J . Michelle
Jones, Rob Hatch, Larry Friedman, Diane Zamojski, Kim Pullen, Justin Achilli, Cynthia
Summers, Valerie Emerick, Paul LePree, Louvie Locklear, Ian Locklear, Todd Shaughnessy,
Benjamin Stuart, Rebecca Schaeffer, Michael Rollins, Laurah Norton and Richard Dansky .
The Developers would like to thank all of our playtesters. You know who you are .
Special Thanks To :
Stephe "Motel Six" Pagel, for leaving the light on for interns
.
Cary "Occasionally We Bitch" Goff, for not having read Wraith, either.
Stewart "D . Niall" Wieck, for taking exception to going through shadow .
Phil "Mr . Friday Night Special" Brucato, for finding good press in the oddest of places .
Ethan "Space Dragullahs of Vagisil" Skemp, for things that I'm not allowed to share in a family
roleplaying supplement
.
Ronni "1 Am Editor, Hear Me Roar" Radner, for identifying a leeeetle too closely with
Masquers .
Dana "Rant Mistress" Buckelew, for keeping accurate track of that vital vitriol . (We're going
to miss you .)
Greg "Buster Zoltan" Fountain, for doing us all proud by bringing a little bundle of joy into the
world, and having the brains to stay the hell out of the office for a while when the kid arrived .
∎
®1997 White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved . Reproduction without the written permission
.
of the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews and the reproduction of
blank character sheets
fm personal use only . White Wolf and Vampire the Masquerade are registered
trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved . Mind's Eye Theatre, Masquerade Second Edition,
Werewolf the Apocalypse, Ghouls : Fatal Addition Apocalypse, Liber des Goules, Antagonists and
Laws of the Night are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc . All rights reserved. All characters, names, r- .
places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf, Inc .
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to
the trademark or copyright concerned .
W H
I I I
W 01 F
Because of the mature themes involved, reader discretion is advised
.
C A M I
S T 0 1110
Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com ; alt.games.whitewolf and
rec .games .frp.st oryteller
PRINTED IN CANADA-
0


i
i
i
i
Contents
Lit er des Goules
Table of Contents
A Cautionary Tale : Hideaway
4
Chapter one: Introduction
11
Chapter Two: Ghoul Types
21
Chapter Three: Character Creation
37
Chapter Four: Roleplaying and Storytelling
73
Appendix: Animal Ghouls
99


A Cautionary
Tale: Hideaway
In love, in love with the other one,
the one who doesn't know .
And when we dance with the other one,
the eyes of fury glow!
- The Creatures, "Fury Eyes"
Compared to the stake through her breast, Lanaugha thought, the
spider attempting to spin a web in her left ear was only a minor
annoyance. It wouldn't have been an annoyance at all had she been
able to move, but the piece of white pine messily inserted between her
third and fourth ribs meant that moving was no longer an option . Of
course, she reflected, the spider was definitely the least of her problems
at this point .
On the other hand, if her current captivity continued much
longer, the spider and its arthropod companions might well become a
concern. While her dead flesh was still far too tough for the mandibles
of the spiders and centipedes that swarmed the crawl space she'd been
unceremoniously stuffed into, she could still feel the tickling of their
feet with exquisite precision . Every footfall, every step, every sensation
went straight to her too-active mind . It would probably drive her mad
before long .
The time the centipede walked across her still-open left eye was
the worst . She screamed, or tried to, but she couldn't even move that
much. As hard as she tried, no words would come . No sound would
come. And so Lanaugha was trapped in silent frenzy for those nine
hours, unresponsive muscles straining against invisible bonds
that
wouldn't permit her so much as a whimper . It had been nine hours of


I[
i
i
1 iber (us Goules
i
i
i
i
hell, made worse by the fact that when Jace came home, he immedi-
ately checked on her . He cradled her head in his hands and muttered
his half-sensible endearments and apologies . He bathed her face with
a cool wet cloth and told her how much he loved her . Then, when his
sense of guilt was assuaged, he lowered the boards and sealed her in the
dark again .
The centipedes took all of half a minute to return
.
So here she was, trapped in a six-by-three-by-two hideaway in her
favorite ghoul's laundry room . Never mind that she'd given Jace the
money to buy the house (asking only that he make one room light-
proof, just in case) . Never mind that she had supported him for years
(it was only right, as the work he did for her precluded his holding a
normal job) . Never mind that she'd given him the blood .
She should have suspected something long ago, she told herself for
the thousandth time. There were so many clues, so many hints, and she
ignored them all . She ignored the danger, as she had for so many years
with so many other ghouls . Silently, she resolved to be much more
careful the next time around .
The next time . That was a laugh. Jace was probably going to keep
her down here as long as the house stood, feeding her enough thin
animal blood to sustain her, but never letting her move again . And
once a month he would come to worship at the altar of her bleeding
wrist and love her all the more for it
.
All the ghouls had loved her, and that had been part of the
problem . It was accepted, really; if you had a ghoul, you Bound him,
and the love inspired in him would be enough to keep him in line .
Certainly there were the horror stories about ghouls who turned on
their Regnants, but Lanaugha dismissed them as pure fancy, a sort of
vampiric urban legend . Besides, all of those lurid anecdotes (ending
with the poor innocent vampire being staked out for the sun by a
horribly vengeful ghoul) had one thing in common . Inevitably, it was
horrible mistreatment of the ghouls that made them strike back,
tortures and abuses that Lanaugha had never so much as considered .
Ghouls were just too valuable to risk damaging that way . No, she had
always been extremely kind to her ghouls . Next time she would simply
have to be firmer .
There was a loud clanking from above the claustrophobic crawl
space. Jace was apparently dragging something heavy and metallic
down the basement stair; there was a pattern of rhythmic thunks
interspersed with curses . Well, there wasn't much that she could do
from here, one way or the other . It wasn't as if she'd picked Jace for his
brawn, anyway .


I
I
i
1
i
A Cautionary Tale
It was her kindness that led to this, Lanaugha decided . She'd been
too kind to Jace, and in his infatuated state, he decided that she
actually returned his affection . It was preposterous, of course - he'd
been her ghoul for almost 10 years and the perfect Servitor throughout
that time . Every assignment had been completed with style
and
efficiency, and she appreciated his work . That was why she bought him
the house . The parameters of the relationship were clear and under-
stood .
At least, that was what she thought . Obviously, she'd been wrong .
But what was the turning point?
She could think of two possibilities . The first occurred nearly three
years ago. He'd finished performing some task or other - at this point
she could hardly remember what it had been, something to do with a
judge - and she made the mistake of smiling at him for a little too
long, and of calling him her "dearest Jace ."
It was just a figure of speech, but she felt his eyes on her back the
rest of that night . Jace had never watched her that way before, not with
that predatory intensity . Like an idiot, she attributed it to the Bond
and thought no more of it, even though he watched her that way more
and more over the nights that followed .
She never called him "dearest" again, but it was plain that Jace
hungered to hear it . She remembered thinking something to herself
about not encouraging him, and then of not giving the matter any
more thought .
Damn, the mistakes were mounting . She would have smiled, were
she able to.
Then the floorboards were pulled away, and her eyes were flooded
with harsh fluorescent light .
Jace was there, of course, his face a mask of tender concern . In his
left hand was what could only be a carafe full of blood . In his right was,
incongruously, a turkey baster . "And how is my beautiful Lanaugha
this evening?" he cooed, dropping oh so slowly to his knees so as to not
spill the blood, and planted a soft kiss on her forehead . "I have some
good news and some bad news . Which do you want to hear first?"
Expertly, he dipped the baster into the blood and drew forth a
generous helping, and then slid the nozzle between Lanaugha's lips . He
pressed gently on the bulb, making the precious vitae trickle into her
system. With a shock, she realized that the blood Jace was feeding her
was human . While she didn't mind the extra strength it gave her, not
to mention the much more satisfying taste, in three
months of
captivity Jace had never, ever fed her human blood . Why now?


+f
i
i
i fiber t es Goules
i
i
i
i
"Well, I see you've discovered the good news . Yes, this is from a
human. You've been such a good girl, I thought you deserved a treat .
Don't worry, I checked to make sure there were no nasty drugs or
diseases . It took me a while, you know. You could at least say thank
you ." He filled the baster and inserted it again . "Ah, well, I'm sure you
would thank me if you could ." Much too slowly, the blood leaked
down, spreading its delicious warmth . Eventually, the nozzle emptied
and Jace paused to refill it .
"There is bad news, you know . Your friend Drake has been asking
questions about your whereabouts. He seems to think I had something
to do with it, and has even insinuated that I've hurt you somehow .
That shows you how silly Drake is . You know I'd never do anything to
hurt you."
You put a goddamned stake in my heart and locked me in a box with the
termites for three months, you bastard! she wanted to scream, but her lips
would not so much as twitch . Instead, the baster, full of warm sweet
blood, was placed between her teeth again . To be fed thus, like a baby,
was humiliating . If she ever got free, Jace was going to pay .
Eventually, inevitably, the blood ran out . Jace planted a single kiss
on her cold lips, then stood . Oddly enough, he didn't replace the
floorboards. "I've got a little something to take care of, love, then I'll
be right back. Don't go anywhere ." Then he was gone, out of her field
of vision, and she could hear his footfalls ascending the basement
stairs. Off in the corner of the room, she could see some sort of tank .
That must have been what Jace lugged down, but for the life of her
Lanaugha couldn't figure out what it might be for .
Still, lace was gone, and that gave her time to return to her original
train of thought. The other thing that might have triggered Jace
occurred when she took Paul on as a ghoul . Paul was a lawyer, and a
rather handsome one at that . She met him at a party on a Saturday and
Bound him to her by the following Wednesday .
Alone among her ghouls, Jace did not seemed thrilled with the
addition. At the time, he had been the newest, and it was always
natural for the "youngest" to resent a new arrival . Jace had been
resented by Carpenter, the ghoul she'd taken just before . Then again,
Carpenter's dislike faded with the years, while ]ace's crystallized into
an icy hatred .
Come to think of it, it was after Paul's addition to her staff that the
accidents started to happen . Carpenter was killed by a hit-and-run
driver ; Jace delivered the news as quickly as he could, but she got there
just a little too late. Six months later, Paul was executed by the prince
for a breach of the Masquerade . His Majesty the Most Asinine Prince
Vincent didn't mention where he got the evidence that Paul had shot


 i 
I I I I I I
N
i I
i
i I
A Cautionary Tale
I
his mouth off, but it was effectively damning . And every time another
ghoul disappeared, Jace convinced her not to create a replacement,
that he could do the work of all .
He instead made her more reliant on him, she now saw . By the
time Jace staked her, he was her only ghoul . Apparently that wasn't
enough, though . He was still afraid that she might take another. That
he might have competition . That it wouldn't be just the two of them
forever .
There was the sound of an argument upstairs, then the slamming
of a door. She heard Jace's feet on the stairs again, and more cursing .
She could vaguely see him come into the room and start fiddling with
the metal tank he'd hauled down earlier . There was a low hiss, and
Lanaugha was suddenly afraid
.
When should she have known? When Jace said that he'd created
the safest hiding place imaginable for her, and begged her to come look
at it? When the last of her other ghouls disappeared? When Drake
warned her about things that Jace had said to his ghouls? She'd been
a fool .
Jace was back . He looked worried . There was something small and
silvery in his left hand . "I'm sorry I had to go, love," he apologized .
Distantly, she could hear someone pounding on the front door . "That
was Drake again. He claims to know what happened to you . I told him
he was deluded, of course ."
A crash came from upstairs . It sounded like someone had torn the
front door off its hinges . She heard the muffled sound of Drake's voice,
and a spark of hope flared within her. Jace didn't seem concerned,
though. He didn't even turn his head .
"Anyway, I knew he'd be coming back . I knew he'd probably even
find you. I couldn't allow him to take you away from me, love ."
Somewhere, Drake was shouting something about gas . Jace opened his
left hand to reveal a lighter .
"So when I got the human blood for you, beloved, it was a present .
A going-away present, really . I wanted to have a `happily ever after,'
but I guess this is going to have to do ."
She could hear Drake's feet on the stairs . She saw Jace flip the cap
off the lighter . Drake! Get the hell out of here! she wanted to scream, but
even now she was denied that much .
Jace leaned forward to kiss her. "Goodbye, my love," he said, as
tears ran from the corners of his eyes . "I wish we could have had
longer."
Me too, damn you, she thought . Me too .
Even as Drake turned the corner at the bottom of the cellar stairs
and lunged, she could hear the rasp of flint striking a fatal spark .


 
I I I I I
I Introduct on
"He who bears the brand of Cain shall rule the Earth ."
- George Bernard Shaw
Many people have an active interest in the legend of the vampire, to the
point of wishing to become a part of it . The idea of the "creature of the night,"
its myths and legends, is so fascinating that we are captivated by its aura, its
power and its romance . The vampire legend is incredibly seductive on several
levels .
So what happens to those who become too enamored of that midnight
allure, and are seduced by the menacing elements of the World of Darkness?
In the Gothic-Punk world, an exceptional few are taken under the vampiric
wing to become ghouls . Later, some of these half-humans might become
vampires, but for many the cost of humanity, life, the sun and loved ones is
one they are not ready to pay . Then again, many human beings don't normally
have much of a choice in this sort of decision .
Ghouls are creatures who incorporate the best and the worst of both
worlds. They can stay out in the midday sun, taste immortality and even take
on the supernatural Disciplines of vampires, but they must often pay with
unnatural love . Everything has a price in a ghoul's world, and often she will
not see who is paying it .


12
i
i
i
i
i
Tiber
t es Goules
Vampires build their communities on the backs of their ghouls . Often
dismissed and taken for granted, ghouls are the bridge between the worlds of
Kindred and kine . Without the help of their Blood Bound retainers, vampires
would be prisoners to the rising and setting of the sun, and mostly helpless to
affect the sunlit world .
It is no overestimation to state that the Camarilla's strides to preserve the
Masquerade would falter or perhaps even fail altogether without ghouls . Nor
would it be unfair to say that the Sabbat relies heavily on ghouls; the existence
of the Revenant families underscores the usefulness of these half-humans to
the antitribu (or at least to Clan Tzimisce) . Even lowly Anarchs need ghouls
for their very survival . Who else could be trusted to haul a vampire on the run
out of town under the noon sun, even as the prince's lackeys sweep the streets
for her?
Then again, the creation of ghouls exacts a price from Kindred as well
.
Ghouls may be bound to their Regnants by love, but love can lead to jealousy
and hate . Hell hath no fury like a ghoul scorned, and when a ghoul knows all
of the secrets of the one who spurned him, the results can be explosive
.
This book outlines and describes what is expected of a ghoul in a live-
action setting, and details what a player should expect from the World of
Darkness. Within these pages are rules, roleplaying hooks and ideas for
newcomers to and long-time players of The Masquerade . Additionally,
Storytellers will find story ideas and clarified rules to use and abuse as they see
fit .
Mind's Eye Theatre
Mind's Eye Theatre started years ago, in somebody's backyard, in the
park, and during recess on the playground . In essence, it is a game of make-
believe, only one set in a very specific place and time . Mind's Eye Theatre
simply provides rules for resolving arguments on what any given player can
or cannot do within the bounds of the game . After all, a tussle over who is
right and who is wrong should be the last thing on any roleplayer's agenda ;
the play's the thing, not the rules . Players who drop out of character to argue
over rules interpretations shatter the illusion of the ongoing story, which
doesn't help anyone have a good time . The rules of the game are here to
streamline the action, not disrupt it .
The foremost priority in Mind's Eye Theatre is telling a story . Preferably,
the story will not be too convoluted, simple or violent . There is a time and
place for all of these things in the World of Darkness, but in measured doses .
The best-laid plans often become diverted by the active imaginations of
creative roleplayers.
It is therefore the responsibility of the Storyteller to provide a story that
can be enjoyed by all her players, not just a few . If a few players want a blood


{I
i
i
I
1
The Ghouls
I
1
I
I
III tro 11 41,011
bath, a Storyteller might decide to give it to them, but even mindless violence
is bound to get boring after a while . Besides, there are consequences for
relentless bloodshed : tedious police investigations, archons asking discom-
forting questions, Blood Hunts, Inner Circle members demanding a cleansing
of the city, and the Sabbat using the chaos to infiltrate what had been a
perfectly safe domain .
It is good to remember that rules are there to resolve unclear situations
.
If the Storyteller makes a decision regarding a rule, such is her right as final
arbiter . It is the Storyteller's responsibility to not abuse this power, and the
players' responsibility to respect it. Rules in this game are flexible so as to
create a game that is ultimately story driven . If a chronicle is being dictated
by rules instead of ideas, there are definite problems, and a review of how such
a bind was reached is necessary .
We can feel the pulse of time,
Naked in the wake of lies that suffocate and blind,
We may burn but we will shine .
- My Life With the Thrill Kill Kult, "13 Above the Night"
Ghouls are mortals who have ingested the potent blood of vampires,
though not always of their own free will . This powerful elixir carries the curse
of Caine's damnation, and infects, to a degree, every creature that consumes
it. Most notable among these are human beings, but the effect is not limited
to them alone . Animals of all kinds can become ghouls .
In Mind's Eye Theatre, the ghoul's part has commonly been passed off
to inexperienced players so they can learn the game by watching their
Regnants go through the motions (and by staying out of the way of important
plots) . Unfortunately, this has led to the prevailing notion of the expendable
ghoul . This is an unacceptable state of affairs, and is not true to the World of
Darkness. Ghouls are neither peripheral to the world of the Kindred, nor are
they disposable .
Ghouls fulfill several important roles, all of which are fertile ground for
Mind's Eye Theatre plots. By playing the roles of servants, ghouls are privy
to all sorts of dirty little secrets . They make excellent bodyguards with their
command of physical Disciplines ; vampires who scoff at the abilities of
"lowly" ghouls tempt fate more than they know . Ghouls also serve as envoys
to and guardians against the mortal world . This is one of their most important
roles, as it is they who tend to their Regnants' daytime business . An efficient
ghoul in this position can make her Regnant's unlife much easier; an
incompetent one can lead hunters right to the haven door .


Ghouls are always faced with the Blood Bond and the possibility of
mistreatment through it . This does not mean, however, that they suffer abuse
lightly. Being Blood Bound does not make a ghoul stupid . Ghouls often cope
with the Bond better than do vampires, becoming infatuated with their
Regnants but not necessarily becoming foolhardy . A ghoul is not going to
appreciate being ignored, struck or emotionally abused, and will react as a
spurned lover would to such treatment . Jealousy and resentment can even
lead a ghoul to question her Bond, eventually causing a true break from her
Regnant . Considering the knowledge that many ghouls have, this could
prove a fatal problem for their Regnants
.
There are also ghouls who, when faced with nothing but abuse, strike
hack and become vampire hunters, bent on the annihilation of their former
masters . Like anyone else, if a ghoul is treated well, she works better and more
willingly . Indeed, some ghouls work best alone, while others can learn to
share their Regnant's attention with others, if doing so is in the Regnant's best
interests . But of course, there are some ghouls whose Regnants might be
better off treating them badly, or at least with some caution . Love, especially
the false affection of the Blood Bond, can lead to dangerous obsessions
.
The most important thing to remember when playing a ghoul is that,
with the exception of the Revenant families of the Sabbat, a ghoul is still very
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
1
1


if
Introduction
much a normal human . The majority of ghouls may still live with loved ones,
hold day jobs, pay bills, go to college and so on . Apart from their addiction
to vitae, ghouls function like everybody else .
∎
Revenants
Revenants are very different from other ghouls, having
been ghouls since their conception . The Revenant families
have had vampire blood in their veins for generations,
making the half-life the normal state for these strange clans .
These creatures are brought up separate from the rest of
humanity, and most are unable to exist with vampires or
humans .
∎
i
i
i
i
i
The difference between a ghoul and a normal mortal lies in the ghoul's
longevity and access to vampiric Disciplines . These differences are what set
a ghoul apart from the unknowing part of kine society, both physically and
socially. And these differences are largely responsible for even the most stable
ghoul's eventual alienation from normal life ; the ghoul knows she is a
changed creature, no longer just one of the herd . This transition may or may
not fit in with her or her loved ones' personal beliefs, ethics or moral values,
and the pain this conflict can bring proves unbearable for some .


~
i
ii sf
I
I 1 1 1
 
I
 
 
∎ 
Instructions for the Proper
Use of This Book
This book should broaden the perspectives of both Storytellers and
players . It fleshes out a vital part of the World of Darkness that, until now, has
been largely taken for granted . Ghouls are truly the backbone of Kindred
society, enabling vampires to extend their influence to the sunlit hours . This
makes ghouls quite necessary for vampires who have political interests -
courts of law, businesses and elections are all daytime operations - and for
those who have nothing but mischief on their minds . If a vampire wants to
affect something - anything- in the mortal world while the sun is high, he
probably has to use a ghoul to do it . Considering the sheer variety of ways in
which a vampire is likely to want to interact with the world during daytime
hours, that leaves an awful lot for ghouls to do .
Ghouls are perfect characters for new players who know little about
Mind's Eye Theatre but who would like to play immediately . The opportu-
nity to learn while playing is invaluable, and the very nature of "new ghoul"
roles explains any "out-of-character" awkwardness or ignorance .
On the other hand, experienced Mind's Eye Theatre players will find
ghouls to have a capacity for multilevel play, as they can interact with more
denizens of the World of Darkness than just vampires . After all, who's to say
that a changeling, werewolf or wraith can't cut a deal, and what of the
ambitious Tremere ghoul who's selling his Regnant's vitae to a local mage?
Nor should players be the only ones having fun with ghouls . Storytellers
can use ghouls as antagonists or to perpetuate storylines or puncture vampiric
arrogance and to continue game action during daylight hours
.
This book will show that ghouls are much more than slaves or conve-
nient juice bags . It gives easy-to-follow rules and suggestions on how to create
and play ghouls. Remember, though, the most important thing is the story!
The only real instructions to be paid special heed to are the ones that you
come up with . So Storytellers, feel free to disregard that which you disagree
with and go wild with what you like . The only limitations to a story are the
ones you set .
The Only Rules That Matter
These are the most important rules of MET, the only ones that absolutely
must be obeyed. Obviously, there are a lot of people out there who either don't
know or don't care that it's just a game . On the other hand, there are some
people who take the game far too seriously . By following these rules, you
provide yourself with ammunition against the former and protect yourself and


L 
I
111 rot uct ], oil
I
your game against the latter. Both groups are equally dangerous to a solid
Mind's Eye Theatre troupe, and these rules are designed to make certain that
offenders are given as little opportunity as possible to interfere
.
# 1- It's only a game.
i
i
This is by far the most important rule. It is only a game . If a character
slides into the Beast, if a plot falls apart, if a rival wins the day - it's still only
a game. Don't take things too seriously, as that will spoil not only your
enjoyment but also the enjoyment of everyone else . If the line between you
and your character blurs, step back a bit and take some time off . If you see
another player confusing himself with his character, get in contact with the
Soryteller . Someone who takes your play too seriously isn't healthy for a
game, or for his fellow players .
Remember to leave the game behind when it ends . The Masquerade is
a lot of fun; spending time talking about the game is great . However,
remember that not everyone you know is going o want to hear about your
character; many will have no idea what you're talking about . Plus, other
players may want time off. Getting together with the rest of the "household"
to bitch about the Regnant over pizza is one thing . It's entirely another to
wake someone at 6 :00 A.M. on Sunday to ask about putting her Influences
toward your pet project .


i
i
if
i
∎
#2 - No touching.
No touching means no touching. None . Ever . There's simply too much
of a chance that someone will get excited in the heat of combat or some other
stressful situation and proceed to hurt themselves or someone else, however
accidentally .
This rule also applies to running, jumping, swinging on chandeliers
through sheets of plate glass, and other overly energetic behaviors that can
result in injuries . This game is called Mind's Eye Theatre for a reason . If you
can imagine yourself as a bloodsucking sycophant, then imagining yourself
running when you're actually walking should he a snap
.
#3 - No weapons as props.
Props are a wonderful way to make a game more real . However, real
weapons or anything that even looks like a real weapon (and we're talking
sword canes, peace-bonded claymores, trained attack gerbils, matte-black
painted waterguns, and sword-shaped toothpicks from martinis) are a definite
no-no . There are oo many paranoid people in the world who will see a prop
gun and mistake it for a real one, or who will see a costume dagger and start
screaming for the police . Plus, there's the ever-present threat of someone
getting hurt. No matter how much having a sword suits your character
concept, leave the real thing at home . If you bring it, it's inevitable that the
one time you unsheathe it to show it off, some idiot will come pelting around
the corner and neatly skewer himself. The illusion is not worth risking
anyone's safety .
i
i
i
i
i
I ib ∎


i
i
i
i
#4 - No drugs or drinking .
This is a real no-brainer. Drugs and alcohol help distance you from
yourself. Roleplaying gives you the chance to be someone else . Why go to all
the trouble of creating another persona to inhabit if you're just going to
wander out of that persona in a haze?
On a more serious note, players who are impaired through drugs or
alcohol represent a danger to other players and a threat to the flow and mood
of the game. There's nothing wrong with playing a character who's drunk or
stoned, but actually bringing drugs or alcohol into a game is going too far, not
to mention the fact that it's possibly illegal. Don't do it .
#5 - Feel free to ignore or adjust any
of the rules in this book if it will make
your game better.
We at White Wolf call this "The Golden Rule ." Obviously, it should be
applied within limits, and rules changes should be consistent throughout a
story or chronicle. If your troupe finds a way to handle Celerity that works
better for it than what's set in The Masquerade, by all means go for it
.
#6 - Remember, not everyone is
playing.
While "freaking the mundanes" can be fun, a game can be unnerving or
even frightening to passersby . Be considerate of nonplayers in your vicinity .
If you're in a public area, make sure that your gameplay doesn't alarm random
civilians to the point where security or the police are called . Explaining to
some "concerned citizens" at 3 A .M . that your goblet of "blood" is just a glass
of very red fruit punch is an exercise in futility .
#7 - Have fun.
Not "win ." Not "Go out and kill everyone else ." Just "Have fun," because
it's not about how the game ends, it's about everything that happens along the
way.
i


i
hou Ty
p
es
ti
One cannot raise the bottom of society without benefiting everyone above .
- Michael Harrington, The Other America
The types of ghouls are as varied as the monsters that a child imagines to
he under her bed . Forming a far-from-homogenous society, ghouls serve, fight
and live for their own reasons . However, the ghoul population can he divided
into rough thirds : Servitors, revenants and Hunters . Each sort of ghoul has its
own motivations, and humanity at large would deny relations to most ghouls .
They are outside of humanity, tainted by the touch of Caine . The Beast
prowls the perimeter of every ghoul's soul, looking for a way in, and is all too
ready to pounce when it finds one .
Of course, each ghoul thinks he has a handle on his situation, and can't
possibly comprehend what the other types of ghouls are up to . The average
Servitor would rather die than he on his own, while the average Hunter would
accept destruction before the Bond . As for revenants, the lifestyles of
"normal" ghouls is so far from their own that it is unimaginable .
And so nights are whiled away by these human drinkers of vitae, each one
passing the decades in her own way . Servitors slave away willingly for their
immortal masters. Hunters subdue or slay for their fixes . On the fringes of
ghoul society, revenants lose any semblance to humanity that their ancestors
might have once had . And in the shadows skulk other groups, the Arcianists
and the Talons of Black Rage . There is a multitude of paths from which to
choose, even for the Bound .
21


22
i
i
i
i
i
A Note
For more detailed information on ghouls, see Ghouls : Fatal
Addiction for Vampire : The Masquerade . This chapter gives the
basics for purposes of live roleplaying . The following material is
written with ease of play in mind . Any background information in
Fatal Addiction supersedes the material in this chapter at the
Storyteller's discretion .
The Servitors
Mainly thought of as classic "Renfield" ghouls, Servitors have been
grossly misrepresented over the years . In some ways, this is to their advantage ;
vampires automatically expect absolute devotion from them . The majority of
Servitor ghouls possess Architect, Sycophant and Visionary Natures, but
others are possible .
Most Servitors spend their lives serving their Regnants through a broad
array of duties. They are protectors, confidants, stewards and, perhaps most
importantly, ambassadors to the mortal world. The vast majority like where
they are and what they do . They have nothing but contempt for the ruck and
run of mortals, viewing themselves as a step above those who don't have
Kindred vitae on their lips. Vampire strategies for dealing with the mortal
world are often modified or even composed by willing Servitors, who are more
in touch with the living than are their masters . Politicians, judges, advertising
executives, lawyers and real-estate agents make excellent Servitors . A great
many Servitors are convinced that they are on the fast track to true
immortality, but even those who are content to remain ghouls actively enjoy
the perks that their supernatural existence's offer . For most Servitors, power
comes at fair price, and they'd gladly pay it again
.
On the other hand, some Servitors actively work toward the day when
they can turn their formidable knowledge against their masters . This ingrati-
tude is usually born not of hatred, but of sheer boredom . As the decades grind
on, quasi-immortality does not always wear well on a living creature . Ennui
wages a harsh war against these ghouls, and they are at times ill-prepared for
battle . For some Servitors, this rebellious streak survives even under the
compact of the Blood Bond, becoming a subconscious rejection of slavery .
Disgruntled Servitors do not always mean their Regnants harm, but many do .
Others set events in motion against their Regnants just so they can swoop in
and "save" their beloved masters, hopefully garnering affection and attention
from the suitably grateful vampires .


Competition in the household is the other great problem that faces
Servitor ghouls . Rarely is a single ghoul sufficient to meet all of a vampire's
needs, and in many cases there are at least three Bound o a given Regnant .
Rivalries often flare as ghouls fight for their Regnant's attention ; supernatu-
rally induced jealousy is as virulent (if not more so) as the natural kind . When
selecting their ghouls, most vampires rarely consider whether or not their
servants are going to get along . They simply look for mortals who can get the
job done . This policy often backfires, though ; ghouls can spend more time
squabbling than accomplishing their tasks . Such competition can even turn
deadly; ghouls can mount their own Jyhads or he destroyed by Regnants who
grow tired of all the bickering .
In their favor, Servitors can draw on their Regnants' ample resources
.
Furthermore, when they can agree with one another, ghouls belonging to a
single vampire don't usually mind sharing their personal influences, so long
as the privilege isn't abused . Valued Servitors, like any important resource,
are frequently protected by their owners, and this provides them with some
degree of safety in the shadow society that they move in . In addition, many
Servitors need never worry about necessities like food, lodging and the like,
as Regnants often provide these things through simple necessity of maintain-
ing a ghoul staff .
In the end, though, Servitors are handpicked by vampires to serve . It
stands to reason, then, that vampires pick mortals who have something o
offer . Serviors without useful skills or contacts are a waste of vitae, and are
not tolerated .


i
Unfortunately, not all vampires make good masters, and mistreatment of
Servitors has become legendary among ghouls . They hear tales of abuse and
torment, and eventually even the most pampered ghouls may glance uneasily
at their Regnants . After being dangled as bait for an enemy or forced to run
missions through hazardous territory enough times, even the most loyal
Servitor begins to question the wisdom of continuing her current employ-
ment. Particularly vicious abuse can spark a ghoul to open revolt ; a servant
who is held loyal only by the frayed tethers of the Blood Bond may not be held
for long. Less openly rebellious Servitors can act like the djinni of Arabian
myth and conduct their Regnants' business by the letter of the command, not
the spirit . This game can he dangerous for both parties . A vampire whose
commands aren't followed to specification may find herself in hot water,
while a ghoul who is willfully disobedient too many times can find his
servitude at a violent end .
Yet the vast majority of Servitors are happy in bondage . Decades of being
denied true immortality or years of abuse can slowly sour a Servitor on her
station, but almost no Servitor would change her status to he a mere human
.
Stereotypes
Hunters - These idiots have no idea what they're doing . If they'd settle
down and take to one master, they might be happier . Never let the hard cases
into the house, but if you can see the softness in a Hunter's eyes, you just might
he able to turn him hack to his proper place . Careful with the hard sell,
though; most Hunters can spot it, and resent it. "Traitor" is probably the
nicest name you'll hear after that .
Revenants - Never hesitate to inform your Regnant if you ever meet
one of these disgusting monsters . Death isn't permanent enough for these
beasts!
Kindred - Our masters know what is best for us . After all, they've had
a long time to learn about life, haven't they? It's best to keep them happy and
do as they say. Just look at all they give us in return-maybe even the ultimate
gift .
Sabbat -Never, ever believe anything a Sabbat vampire says to you . No
matter what one offers, he's lying . If you're approached by a Sabbat vampire,
tell your Regnant immediately . Don't try to he a hero . Play along to gather all
the information you can, instead .
Mortals - They have no idea what they're missing, and it's best to keep
it that way. Can you imagine the chaos if the hoi polloi got access to the things
we do? No, it's far better to observe them from above than to try to elevate
them. Poor bastards .


Hunters
i
i
i
i
i
Llap62 Ghoul 1jPZS
Hunters are divided into two classes : those who hunt to kill and those
who hunt to survive . A killer often has a past blackened by a vampire who
killed a loved one, attacked the Hunter, or abused him as a Servitor . Rarer are
the religious or moralistic fanatics who wander their way into ghouldom
.
These killers are intent on stamping out "evil," and attempt to use the Devil's
own tools against him . As witch-hunter ghouls come from every walk of life,
their array of possible Natures is astounding .
Some Hunter ghouls slay every vampire they meet without mercy,
delaying the coup de grace just long enough to take their victims' blood . The
raison d'etre for this behavior is, supposedly, that only vampire blood enables
these noble Hunters to continue their war with the bloodsuckers . Ask any
vampire-killer and he will swear up and down that he regards his addiction
to blood as a necessary evil, and that if he could be free of it, he would . Of
course, most of these Hunters have stashed away huge stocks of Blood Traits
to support both their hunts and their habits . There are even rumors of elder
ghouls, their lifespans prolonged by centuries, who pick off young Hunters to
reduce competition for the precious vitae .
∎
Hunters and Vampires
Many vampires who wish to dispose of rivals without
tempting the consequences of diablerie turn to Hunter ghouls
to do their dirty work . Few of these vampires actively work with
their unsuspecting hatchetmen . Instead, such vampiric quis-
lings drop hints or have their Servitors leave clues for the
hapless Hunters to follow to rivals' havens . Most Hunters
follow a trail, congratulate themselves on their cleverness, and
never suspect that they've been played like violins. Only a few
very experienced Hunters can recognize such schemes .
∎ 
∎
The greatest advantage that Hunter-killer ghouls have is their organiza-
tional capacity . Most, if not all, have a vast network of contacts ; a lively trade
in information, tactics and tools occurs whenever Hunters cross paths . There
are even societies of Hunter-killer ghouls, though most groups of this sort tend
to have lifespans of under a decade . Casualty ratios and inevitable infiltra-
tions by Servitor ghouls render even the most effective collections of killers
impotent after a few years .
25


 
I i l l l
i
i 
∎
 I
Ti~~er ties Uoia1es
∎
1
There are also Hunter ghouls who do not kill their prey . The equivalent
of "Sandman" vampires, these Hunters stalk vampires for vitae to support
their own immortality, and nothing more . They have no ties to one another,
though some have formed working relationships with vampires . Indomitable
survivors and loners by choice, these Hunters actively shy away from the
Bond. They drink from the same font twice only ifin the direst of straits, and
many claim that death is preferable to the Bond .
Harvester Hunters (as these are called) have a number of stalking
techniques that closely mirror those of vampires themselves . Some prefer to
slip into a marked vampire's haven and secretly draw blood from the
unsuspecting victim . Others prefer seduction. There are even those who
prefer to assault vampires physically and take their vitae, but most of this sort
don't live very long .
Hunting the hunters can be an extremely complicated proposition for
ghouls who are out for blood instead of ash . Most witch-hunters have the
simple aim of annihilating their targets ; Harvesters have to get in close and
stay there in order to get what they need . It goes without saying that there are
far safer places to he than at a vampire's bedside, IV in hand . While these
ghouls do have the traditional Kindred advantage that their prey is usually
unaware that it is being hunted (How many vampires really worry about
mortals hunting them for their blood?), the actual hunt is fraught with
difficulties and dangers . Hunters using a Casanova approach have a hard time
picking up marks when vampires have so many other willing victims to
choose from . Sandman Hunters are also faced with paranoid vampires'
exasperating and potentially fatal daylight security . Indeed, considering the
risk-to-reward ratio for this sort of hunting, it is surprising how many ghouls
make a go of it .
The only tried-and-true method these ghouls have (and it is a surpris-
ingly effective one) involves befriending Servitors with the hope of being
permitted to drop by a haven for a quick sip . The Servitor who agrees to this
arrangement had better he quite sure that he's indispensable . A vampire who
awakens weaker than she ought to be will have some pointed questions for her
favorite ghouls, and may not like the answers she receives . In addition, many
Hunters tell stories about throwing themselves through second-story win-
dows in panicked attempts to get away from light-sleeping vampires .
Over the years the two Hunter factions of ghouls have grown increas-
ingly aware ofeach another . Neither is comfortable with the other's approaches
or tactics, but the war against the common enemy takes precedence over any
internecine strife .


•
~- l
•
'~
-~1 )
Hunter Stereotypes
Servitors - Slaves, the lot of them . They're weak . Some of them can't
help it because of the Bond, but most love licking vampire boots . If you can
hide your disgust, a houseboy can be helpful in getting a pint in a tough
situation, but that's as far as it goes .
Revenants - They're the reason I don't believe in God .
Kindred - We can't live with `em, we can't live without `em, and I for
one don't much like either option .
Sabbat-No mercy ; they won't show you any . We're not even a resource
to them, we're a meal!
Mortals- In the grand scheme of things, they just don't matter, except
as food for vampires . Otherwise, they're nothing more than speed bumps on
the road we're all taking to Hell .
The Revenant Families
Created over a millennium ago through pacts made with the Tzimisce,
these four ghoul families are born with vampire blood in their veins . Reveling
in debauchery and sadism above and beyond what their service to the Fiends
demands, Revenants have a foul reputation even among the Sabbat .
Revenants don't need vampire blood to survive their first 300 years . The
Tzimisce blood that the families are infused with has changed their genetic
structure . Revenants seeking more than three centuries' existence do require
27


28
dosages of vampire blood, but not many last even 300 years . The foul pleasures
that these creatures revel in do have their dangers .
The revenant families are not in the safest of positions, despite their
advantage of not needing the blood to reach a great age . Loyal to the Sabbat,
incapable of true interaction with mortals, and without hope of ever being
allowed into the Camarilla, revenants' actions are tightly circumscribed
.
They are trapped in an organization that allows for no growth, and in which
the majority of their putative allies would like nothing better than to
obliterate them . Four of the original eight revenant families have already
been "culled," and there are constant rumors that an additional purge of one
family or another is coming . Despite the talents, resources and apparent
unimpeachable loyalty of the revenant families, the vast majority of Sabbat
vampires would still destroy every last one of them ; only the backing of Clan
Tzimisce sustains the ghoul clans . However, the Tzimisce support the four
families more in principle than anything else these days (by right of Sabbat
law, a single mistake can earn a ghoul immediate and gory release from this
mortal coil) .
The four families of revenant ghouls include the Bratoviches ("Mon-
sters"), the Grimaldis ("Puppets"), the Obertuses ("Hermits") and the Zantosas
("Trash") . Each family gets along with the others tempestuously at best, but
there are occasional intermarriages that serve as elaborate displays of so-
called unity and goodwill . The products of such marriages uniformly suffer
derision and abuse from the families involved
.


I
I
I
I
I
Chap er 2 Ghoul( T'oe
The Bratoviches
The Bratovich family is widely considered the most disturbing of all of
the revenant clans, and the Monsters are now all but completely ignored by
the Sabbat . The only service these ghouls still provide to the sect at large is
the raising and training of hideous ghouled hounds for hunting . Most
Bratovich households keep large private kennels for personal use, and for
disposing of "accidents."
Pragmatic in their dealings with vampires, the Bratoviches have always
been interested in staying on the winning side of any conflict . The one
exception to the infamous Bratovich shifting loyalty is the hatred the entire
family has for Lupines; Bratovich excellence at hunting and slaughtering
werewolves is astonishing. Their keen understanding of Lupine tactics has
been the downfall of many a pack that has wandered too close to one of the
family's large, dilapidated estates. Ofcourse, the atrocities that the Bratoviches
practice - cannibalism, vivisection and the like - produce enough of a
Wyrm-taint to lure in altruistic or unwary Lupines . Few werewolves realize
what they're getting into, and fewer get out alive .
While not actively anachronistic, these ghouls are reclusive and possess
few modern conveniences like televisions, radios or microwave ovens. On the
other hand, Bratoviches are compulsive pack rats. The Monsters' estates are
absolutely filled to overflowing with the junk that the households have
collected over the decades. Neither personal hygiene nor landscaping is high
on the list of Bratovich priorities . Family estates and their tenants tend to he
equally repulsive in appearance (not to mention odor)
.
Oddly enough, Bratovich children attend public schools like normal
children, but also attend classes at home . Toxicology, animal handling,
torture and other extremely liberal arts are at the top of each semester's
schedule .
Vampire blood is such an integral part of the Monsters that they actually
have a clan weakness. Monsters are prone to frenzy . In terms of game
mechanics, this flaw functions exactly like the weakness of the Brujah clan .
For more information, see Laws of the Night .
Bratovich Stereotypes
Servitors -Stupid pawns . Let `em lead you to their masters, then feed
'em to your dogs .
Hunters - They're kinda fun to bother, but not much of a threat . A
Hunter will usually attack until you fuse his mouth and nose shut, then he'll
just kinda fall over and wriggle a bit before he suffocates . Take pictures to
show the kids!
Kindred - Show off that good-neighbor side until they're not looking,
then plan a barbecue!


Liber
t e
(joules
Sabbat - Be on your best behavior around Sabbat types, because they
can kick our butts if they decide we're getting uppity . It means eating dirt
sometimes, but it also means living to see the sunrise .
Mortals - Breeding stock, if that. Most get one whiff and decide to back
off. Smart people .
The Grimaldis
Of all the revenant clans, the Grimaldis who work the best in the mortal
world. Blending in with an ease born of years of practice, the Puppets are
perhaps the most human of the revenant families . Many even develop
additional Humanity Traits, as opposed to members of the other revenant
families (who frequently lose those Traits with appalling speed) . Most of this
relatively enlightened existence comes from the intense contact the Grimaldis
have with mortals throughout their lives . Grimaldi children go through
normal public or private schools and colleges while being groomed for
lifetimes of servitude . Most adult Grimaldi actually function as part of the
regular work force, as their utility to the Tzimisce extends far beyond their
homes and pets .
This family serves as a link between the Sabbat and the mortal world ;
more than one vampire has referred to the Grimaldi as the Servitors of the
Sabbat. In essence, the Grimaldi are in charge of maintaining a masquerade
for the Sabbat . With the support of their vampiric allies and human contacts,
they control most of the media in Sabbat-held cities . The family is also quite
proficient at the fine arts of blackmail and bribery, a fact which routinely puts
mortal movers and shakers firmly in the Grimaldi pocket .
These ghouls are both highly organized and incredibly wealthy, to the
point where they almost rival the Ventrue and Giovanni in influence .
Indeed, Puppet cunning and skill at high finance is a match for those of the
Ventrue; more than one Blue Blood has been appalled to discover that the up-
and-comer that he had targeted for the Embrace was in fact a Grimaldi .
(Note : When creating a Grimaldi, it is always a good idea to purchase as many
Influences as possible .)
The only thing preventing a Grimaldi from gaining the normal maxi-
mum of Humanity Traits is something inherent to the family : Every last
Puppet is Blood Bound to a Sabbat bishop or archbishop . This tight rein is
viewed as a necessary precaution . After all, Grimaldi ghouls have both the
resources and the capability to do severe damage should they develop
sufficient incentive . However, at this point the mandatory Bond is almost
never more than symbolic, as the Grimaldis would seem to be perfectly loyal .
A Sabbat "patron," as a Grimaldi refers to her blood donor, seldom calls on
(or even calls for) this Blood Bond . It is the Grimaldi themselves who submit
willingly to the Bond . They make this gesture out of both respect and loyalty,
L 
perhaps to convince the Sabbat that they are worth keeping around .


I
I
I
I
I
Lao er 2 C oill T~Oes
∎
i
Grimaldi Stereotypes
Servitors - A mixed hag is the best way of describing these folks . The
good ones are probably the smartest ghouls . They know how to get what they
want, not to mention what's really worth wanting . The worst ones might as
well he dirt .
Hunters - It's just stupid to kill that which makes you what you are
.
Besides, ghouls who make too much noise are reminiscent of the proverbial
nail that stands out, begging to he hammered down . These ghouls make a lot
of noise .
Kindred - It's ironic that we're often compared to Camarilla ghouls -
or vampires . We're all about business while they're all about self-aggrandize-
ment. If a Cam vampire targets you for the Embrace, remove his illusions-
Otherwise, things will get sticky .
Sabbat - Stay on their good side and they'll ignore you . That's all you
really want from them, so you can get on with your life without being tangled
up in their nasty power struggles . Tzimisce versus Lasombra versus antitribu
versus - who cares? Take care of your own business .
Mortals -Sometimes you have to envy their ignorance . Other times you
have to pity them . They're caught up in a game they don't even understand
.


* 32
The Obertuses
∎
The Obertus family has earned the nickname "Hermits" for its members'
extensive research into esoteric knowledge and lore . These ghouls reside in
small communities composed entirely of family members, usually far from the
hustle and hustle of big cities . Most Obertus settlements are located in New
England, the American Midwest and Central America, but other villages are
scattered all over the globe . While there's nothing overtly odd about an
Obertus village, visitors are not welcome, and enough odd things will happen
during the course of a single day (or night) to drive off even the most
insensitive tourist .
The Ohertuses are the quiet ones of the revenant families, and their
obsessive search for information has taken them in some strange directions
.
Although their relentlessly rational approach (not to mention strict hewing
to the Paths of Enlightenment) has kept the majority of family members sane
in the face of even the foulest of discoveries, a few relatives passed beyond the
gates of sanity long ago . The problem is that you can never tell who the mad
ones are . . . .
It is said, and rightly so, that some of the world's greatest scholars are
Obertus revenants . While Obertus children have no formal education, they
do receive private tutoring from family members, who are more than qualified
to teach . This phase of Hermit education lasts until a child becomes old
enough to seek his own teachers and fields of study . At this point, his life-long
quest for true knowledge begins . Only death ends that search and the
Ohertuses hoard every hit of knowledge they acquire . The eldest members of
the family have accumulated astonishing libraries over the centuries, and
young Obertus ghouls may - if they are properly respectful - occasionally
be permitted to access these tremendous resources .
The Obertus family retains close ties to Clan Tzimisce, but seldom
actively involves itself in vampiric affairs . However, the Obertuses do serve
the information brokers of the Sabbat, and have successfully infiltrated the
Society of Leopold, the Arcanum and a number of other esoteric organiza-
tions. Of special interest to these ghoulish moles is information on Caine,
demons, Lupines and mages.
The weakness of the family is a predictable one : intellectual obsession .
Once an Obertus is hooked on a subject, she'll follow an information trail to
the ends of the earth, regardless of danger or cost
.
Obertus Stereotypes
Servitors - At least these ghouls make themselves useful . I really have
no interest in them beyond that.
Hunters - They are both pragmatic and illogical . If the blood is what
they desire, there are more efficient ways of obtaining it . If they wish to kill
vampires, there are more effective ways of doing that, too . However, the


I
I
1
1 1 I
∎
Cllr
kr 2 'llh0
( T1)nes
I 
 ∎
degrees of success they have achieved in both regards means that their
methods warrant closer observation .
Kindred - Many are vast fonts of knowledge . Those who are not are best
treated well until they move on. The fewer questions they ask about what we
are doing, the better . We have no wish to he caught between the two sects
when they clash over the secrets they think we possess .
Sabbat - Which Sabbat are we talking about? The old members of the
sect are gracious, knowledgeable and intelligent . They respect what we do,
and we have no difficulties serving them . The young Sabbat are rude, crude,
loud things with no respect for knowledge or those who preserve it . Our doors
are shut to these fools .
Mortals - They are useful for experimentation, among other things .
Few live long enough to accumulate any knowledge worth seeking, but
sometimes it is the flame that burns out most quickly that shines the brightest
.
The Zantosas
Unquestionably the prime hedonists of the revenant families, the
Zantosas love pleasure and excess above all else . A Zantosa will inevitably be
preceded by his family's reputation into any social situation . Every revenant
has stories about the lengths to a Zantosa will go to in order to satisfy some
perversion or other. Such tales are almost the equivalent of "light-bulb jokes ."
On the other hand, the Trash may be hedonists, but they are not idle ones
.
The family is fabulously wealthy, and has a genetically transmitted streak of
irrepressible cruelty that makes it less of a joke and more of a dangerous
curiosity to those who meet its members .
Descended from a cluster of noble houses in Eastern Europe, the Zantosas
served as a sort-of breeding pool for the Tzimisce . For centuries these ghouls
worked as spies in Europe's most powerful courts, and those who served the
Tzimisce well were rewarded on rare occasions with the Embrace . Well
trusted and unquestionably loyal, the gaggle of families (now so thoroughly
intermarried as to be essentially one lineage) followed the Tzimisce into the
fledgling Sabbat . Many members of the family were Embraced to serve as
cannon fodder during the Sabbat-Camarilla wars .
Thanks to their grasp of Vicissitude, the Trash are easily the most
attractive of the ghoul families . Dancing on the cutting edge of technology
and hedonism, most Zantosas dabble in drugs (dealing or using) as well as
other assorted antisocial or illegal behaviors . It is very important to a Zantosa
to have the latest technological toys and marvels, and just as important to
have traveled to all of the "hot" spots . A Zantosa who's a season behind the
times in anything is as good as forgotten by the rest of the family, at least until
she catches up with the social whirl .
Zantosas tend to keep spotless homes and stables . Their stables, however,
also serve as pantries ; these ghouls have a peculiar taste for horseflesh . A
33


I
dinner invitation to a Zantosa residence is not for the faint of heart or weak
of stomach .
Culinary perversion is not the most closely held secret of the Zantosas .
That honor falls to the fact that they, alone among of all the revenant
families, guard the slumbering Tzimisce Antediluvian . Were this to become
known, the family would he exterminated and the Antediluvian exhumed,
undoubtedly to disastrous effect .
The Zantosas' greatest weakness is their addictions . If given intense
pleasure by anything, a Zantosa must make a Static Challenge or immediately
acquire an addiction to the source .
Zantosa Stereotypes
Servitors - Booooooooring . You can't liven up a Servitor's day with
anything . . . except maybe slipping acid into her groceries .
Hunters -They're not exactly party animals, and they always have such
serious faces! Always thinking about their next infusion of blood-this and
next-hunt-that; they make lousy conversation . Even we're not that bad .
Kindred -The fangdaddies are fun, if not exactly safe to be around . Still,
life's never dull when you're palling around with the living dead! Besides, the
look on a Cammy vamp's face when he realizes he's been necking with a
revenant is priceless!
Sabbat - Some of these vampires have a sense of humor that matches
ours, and we'll work with them when it doesn't throw our own schedules out
of whack . Avoid the "destroy-the-Camarilla" types . They'll waste us as
quickly as their enemies.
Mortals - Wheeee! Humans are fun, fun, fun to play with, but they
break easily . Too bad .
Other Ghouls
The Arcianist Historical Society
The Arcianist Historical Society has come far and changed much in the
last few years . The core of the group consists of five renegade Tremere ghouls
who, fueled by the vitae of an imprisoned seventh-generation vampire, plot
to destroy the vampires of the world . Protected by a series of spells that
disguise their true natures, these five ghouls serve as a clearinghouse of ghoul
candidates for the Ventrue of the Camarilla . The society has links with the
Sabbat as well, but its main business is with the Camarilla
.
While the ghouls that the Arcianists supply are uniformly excellent -
intelligent, talented and attractive - they do come with one hidden feature .
Each Arcianist-trained ghoul is implanted with a post-hypnotic suggestion .
This hidden programming ensures that on a certain date, each ghoul that the


i
i
i
i
Lii p cr 2 't1liou Ii.)pes
I 
 ∎ 
Society provides will dial a phone number and detail the defenses of her
Regnant's haven. What follows will almost certainly be academic, not to
mention bloody.
The ghouls of the society never deal directly with their vampire custom-
ers . Instead, they use their secretary Jeanette as a front . Most of the Arcianists'
customers respect this desire for privacy. The rest contribute to the light of the
sunrise .
The Society does deal with the Sabbat, and the groups occasionally
cooperate on hunting down a particularly meddlesome Camarilla vampire . In
the end, however, the five ghouls of the Society don't intend to spare even
their erstwhile allies from their coming purge .
Two members of the society possess True Faith, and another is rumored
to have an artifact called the Undying Heart . All sorts of rumors surround the
latter, but one piece of information is cold, hard fact : If the Tzimisce knew of
the Heart's location, they'd stop at nothing to retrieve it.
Society ghouls have acquired a method for breaking Blood Bonds,
beyond other achievements . This knowledge, along with the existence of the
imprisoned Tremere antitribu in the basement, is kept under the closest of
wraps. Either tidbit would be explosive enough to bring down considerable
vampiric wrath on the society . No matter how potent their defenses, the
Arcianists are not capable of holding off a determined assault .
While it is not recommended that players take the parts of the five leaders
of the Arcianist Historical Society, ghouls recruited by the Arcianists make
excellent characters . For more information on the Arcianists, see Antago-
nists .
The Talons of Black Rage
The Talons are the result of an eugenics project performed by a small
number of Lasombra, without the consent of Les Amies Noir. (The last such
project resulted in the creation of the Kiasyd bloodline . Understandably, the
clan elders are not eager to repeat that sort of blunder) . The Talons were bred
for the express purpose of infiltrating the Black Hand and destroying it from
within. Their secondary mission was (and is) to counter the efforts of the
revenant families within the Sabbat, forcing the Tzimisce to disband or
destroy those ghouls. Most Sabbat - even most Lasombra - are unaware of
the Talons' existence . The Lasombra progenitors of these ghouls intend to
keep it that way .
To date there are 13 members of the Talons : seven men and six women .
All are followers of the Path of Power and the Inner Voice, and all are familiar
with Obtenebration, Chimerstry and assorted martial arts . Five generations
of Talons have been bred, and each successive brood is increasingly deadly .
The existing Talons are each more than a match for most neonate vampires .
For more information on the Talons, see Antagonists .
4~lk _-~ J


 I
~-hap1es 3
krai kr
w~~~ic~n
People seem not to see that their opinion of the world is also a confession of
character .
- R. W. Emerson, The Conduct of Life
0
Warning
This section is a quick-and-dirty guide to ghoul creation .
We assume that you are familiar with the Mind's Eye Theatre
character creation process from The Masquerade : Second
Edition or Laws of the Night. If you are not familiar with either
of those books, read one of them before attempting to use the
following material .
Any lists of Traits, Merits or Flaws that are not included in
this hook can he found in Laws of the Night or
∎
The Masquerade : Second Edition .
∎
Character Concept: Who Are You?
It has often been said that a story with incredible characters and a
horrible plot will go farther than one with an outstanding plot and one-
dimensional characters . The key to an interesting story is characterization,
and good characterization begins with building a character from the ground
up. After all, in creating a character you are in a sense creating a person, and
you need to consider exactly who this person is . This process does not consist


i
i
i
i
i
L7)('1' ( pS
't1p171F;ti
of slapping a name on a list of adjectives . You have to think about what makes
this person so interesting to you that you want to be her for an evening (or
several evenings) . If there's nothing interesting about your character, you're
not going o he interested in being - or playing - her .
Identifying with your character is important, so you might want to draw
on subjects that you're interested in to add depth to her background . If you're
interested in a particular historical period, consider giving your character
some involvement in the important events of that era . If you like rock
climbing, even if you've never so much as scaled a particularly tall anthill,
consider adding it o your character's list of interests .
Once you have a basic idea of who your character is, start imagining her
hisory. Figure out who she was and what happened in her past that made her
who she is today . Details like where she was horn, her economic circum-
stances, and the time period and setting of her upbringing have great impact
on your character's life .
Your character may have entered the world of vampires at any point in
history that makes sense (the height of the Sumerian empire, for example, is
right out) . If your character was horn in America in the '50s and became a
ghoul in the '70s, she must have been profoundly affected by all the political
upheavals she lived through . The Vietnam War, Watergate, the disillusion-
ment of a country, conspiracies - all of these should he reflected in her
outlook (which may have crystallized somewhat at the moment she was made
a ghoul) .


i
i
i
i
i
L1wp1er 3 (]
.Air GicAm, 
An important part of any character is her name . While you may
What's in a Name?
think naming is the least important part of character design, the
name you choose for your ghoul is the one you're going to be
answering to - perhaps for a long time . A good name also goes a
long way toward cementing a character's image. If you doubt that,
consider this : Would you be in any way, shape or form terrified of a
Brujah named Alouicious?
If you have trouble naming your character, books of baby names
are useful . Many provide lists of names from other countries and
cultures, assuming you decide to give your character a background
from further afield than the local suburbs . Nicknames are fun, too,
but ones like Slash or Blade get redundant fast - odds are the local
vampiric community already supports at least three guys with similar
monosyllabic handles.
Consider your character's biological age, particularly the year in which
she stopped aging. Ghouls can he of any age, although small children and
nonagenarians are not recommended . Your character's apparent age dictates
how people treat her, and can affect her outlook on life . If your character
became a ghoul at age 14, all the fake IDs in the world aren't going to help her
get into a bar. If your character is middle-aged, she might get more respect on
one level, but people are going to underestimate her physical capabilities .
Once you have decided on a time and place as the starting point for your
character, think about what events have shaped your character's life . Writing
up a brief synopsis is helpful . It doesn't have to he a 12-volume epic, but it's
good to get some grounding that will give you material to work with later
.
Consider the questions : Did your character come from a dysfunctional family?
Was her upbringing perfectly mundane? Was she wealthy? What did her
parents do? Was she raised by a single parent? How far did she get in school?
What special talents does she possess? Is she a citizen or an immigrant? Did
she have siblings? Does she have a job? Is she married? What are her interests?
Hopefully these questions will fuel your creative processes and bring you
to the moment of truth : the entrance of a Regnant into your character's life .
Odds are your character will enter the game as a ghoul, so you need to decide
a few things about your Regnant and your character's relationship with him .


Tiller tips Gwilus
Steps of Ghoul Character Creation
Step One: Inspiration - Who are you?
- Choose your Regnant
- Choose a Nature and Demeanor
Step Two : Attributes - What are your basic capabilities?
- Prioritize Attributes (seven Primary, five Secondary and
three Tertiary)
Step Three : Advantages - What do you know?
- Choose five Abilities
- Choose one Discipline (Celerity, Fortitude or Potence only)
- Choose three Influences
- Choose Humanity Traits
Step Four: Last Touches - Fill in the details .
- Assign Blood Traits
- Assign Willpower Traits
- Record Status Trait of Recognized
I
- Choose Negative Traits (if any)
Step Five: Spark of Life - Narrative descriptions
Choosing Your Regnant
Before you begin choosing Attributes, Abilities and Disciplines, you
have to decide who your Regnant is . Choosing another player's vampire
character or a nonplayer character is best for many reasons . With another
player as a Regnant, you automatically have someone to roleplay with, and
a means to introduce your character to the plots already in progress . Further-
more, when that time of the month rolls around, your character has someone
to give her blood .
You also need to decide how your character feels about her Regnant .
Does her Regnant mistreat her? Is she in love with him? Is she jealous of his
other ghouls? Defining the Regnant-Thrall relationship early on is vital
.
You also need to figure out what you do for your Regnant, and why he
keeps you around . If the vampire has other ghouls, you should establish your
relationships with them . The history of your dealings with your Regnant need
to be laid down, including his reasons for taking you under his vampiric wing .
Everything that you come up with should be cleared with a Storyteller, but
once this groundwork is established, you're ready for the hard part : assigning
Traits .


I
Nature and Demeanor
Your Nature is your character's true self, which is often hidden from the
world. Your ghoul's Demeanor, however, is the facade she wears when dealing
with others . A character's Nature and Demeanor can he the same or widely
different, depending on her approach o the world . A complete listing of
Natures and Demeanors can be found in The Masquerade : Second Edition
(p. 19), but you don't have to limit yourself o the ones in print . With
Soryteller approval, you can come up with unique Archetypes for your
character .
Step Two: Attributes
Your Attributes describe everything that your ghoul is . When you see a
weight lifter on television, the adjectives that you might use to describe him
would be Traits used in Mind's Eye Theatre roleplaying . You could say that
he was Brawny, Burly or Tough. A suave soap opera star might be described as
Alluring, Charming or Gorgeous . In Mind's Eye Theatre, all of these things
become Traits that your character possesses .
From the list of Attributes in Laws of the Night, decide which ones best
describe your character . Attributes fall into three categories : Physical, Men-
tal and Social . You need to pick one of these three as your Primary and assign
seven Traits o it. The one next in importance is Secondary ; give this category
five Traits. The remaining one is Tertiary, which receives three Traits
.
Let your character inspiration determine your Attributes . If your ghoul
is a bodyguard for the Ventrue primogen, making Physical Attributes his
weakest area would not be wise . You may take a Trait more than once if you
want to reflect a greater level of aptitude in a particular area . For example, the
aforementioned power lifter might have Brawny x 5 .
Step Three: Advantages
Choosing Abilities
Abilities are the skills your character has picked up in life . Whether your
ghoul learned to fight, perform surgery or write poetry, all of these Abilities
may come into play during a sory . Each Ability allows you to perform a
specialized task, and on occasion Ability Traits can be hid instead of
Attributes . Choose five Traits from the complete list on page 23 of Laws of
the Night
. Additional, ghoul-specific Abilities can he found in this hook on
page 41 .
Disciplines
Ghouls must choose their initial Discipline from among the so-called
Physical Disciplines. If you take Negative Traits or Flaws, these points may
,f
41 :


I
42
he used to buy other Disciplines, but only if you also take the Merit : Learn
Other Disciplines . You can find a complete description of Disciplines starting
on page 75 of Laws of the Night .
Choosing Influences
Influences represent the control you exert over the World of Darkness
.
These are the subtle player's bread and butter . If Brujah punks give you
trouble, they might learn their lesson when you spend enough Police Influ-
ences to have their haven raided at 10 :30 A.M . You may take three Influences
during character creation. Your choices are listed in Laws of the Night,
starting on page 29. These Influences may be the reason you were made into
a ghoul, the things that your Regnant puts you in charge of, or may simply be
things you have acquired on your own .
Choosing Humanity Traits
The last part of the Advantages stage is selecting your three Humanity
Traits from the list in the Humanity section on page 36 of this book . These
represent your ties to your human side that oppose the Beast within you .
Step Four: Last Touches
You may now more fully define your character by taking up to four
Negative Traits . This step is completely optional, but does allow you to take
additional positive Traits, Influences and Humanity Traits on a one-for-one
basis. Purchasing Numina costs two Negative Traits per level of Numina
.
Now is the time to record your four Blood Traits and one Willpower Trait
on your character sheet.
You may also take up to five Traits' worth of Flaws and five of Merits,
assuming your character concept supports them . In other words, a ghoul with
the Flaw : Low Pain Threshold probably doesn't have several facial piercing
.
If it's in character, you can also take Derangements . They provide extra
points to spend. For each Derangement that you take, you receive two
additional Traits to spend on your character . Revenants are required take one
Derangement during character creation, but do not receive extra Traits from
it .
Sample Character Creation
Gina has been playing a Ventrue for a while, and wants a break . She
would like to bring in a new character, and her Storyteller suggests a ghoul .
She comes up with the foundation of her ghoul character. Her ghoul is
a blues singer, Blood Bound to a Gangrel who's just entered the city . The
Storyteller checks with the Gangrel's player, who agrees to it, and it's off to
the races .
1
I
1
I
I
I
I
1
I
1
1
I


i
i
i
i
i
O "'PI, 3
w'ir Ga!on
First, Gina comes up with a name . Flipping through the paper, she comes
across the name "Jimenez." She likes the sound of it, and looks for a first name
in a baby-name book . "Maya" has a nice ring to it and fits harmoniously with
her chosen surname . Now that Maya has a name, Gina thinks about who
Maya actually is.
Her deliberation determines that Maya was a singer in roadside clubs
when she caught the attention of a traveling Gangrel named Kekkova
Romanovich, who was looking for some companionship on the road . Back-
stage, Kekkova made her offer to Maya, who, tired of playing the same
one-horse towns, accepted . The two have been together ever since, with
Maya doing Kekkova's legwork and scouting out potential victims .
The back story makes sense to both the Storyteller and Kekkova's player,
so it's on to Traits . While Maya comes across as something of a dreamer, she's
happiest when she has her own space, something that Kekkova respects . Gina
chooses the Nature and Demeanor, Loner and Visionary, respectively . Next,
Gina ranks Mental, Social and Physical Traits in that order, and picks the
specific Traits that suit her concept of a tough-but-attractive singer who has
managed to survive on her own in a very nasty world .
Picking Attributes
Gina chooses the Mental Traits Cunning, Shrewd and a couple
of levels of Wily right off the bat. She decides that these are useful in
contract negotiations and dealings with promoters and hooking
agents. Attentive and Vigilant are added, which have enabled Maya to
spot trouble and duck it . Finally, Gina tacks on Clever, just on general
principle. Maya may not have had much education, but that doesn't
mean she's dumb .
Next come Social Traits . Gina starts with Eloquent, as a reflec-
tion of Maya's talent for writing lyrics . Then it's on to what Traits
might make up the singer's stage persona: Beguiling, Dignified, Gor-
geous and Seductive .
Last but not least are Physical Traits . Gina already knows that
Maya is better at running than fighting, and holds to the philosophy
that the safest place to be in a fight is far away from it . She therefore
picks the Traits Dexterous (x 2) and Quick.
Humanity comes next, and Gina decides that Maya's actually something
of a softy . Gina determines that Maya is Generous and Empathetic, but also
Loyal to Kekkova .
43
1


A
snicis
spunoz(jae8
sauildps}Q
ape.zanbsPW
azoro paapuzx
Ex (buTbuTs) erusuuopza c [
Salhl(1V
Merits
Flaws
Learn Other  Insomnia
Disciplines 
(2 Trait Flaw)
(3 Trait Merit)
Humanity
Loyal, Generous,
Empathetic
Willpower
0000000000
uaauaauaau
Blood
0000000000
Influences
Transportation x 3
Derangements
None
paztubooag
SSSeal anue(aN
aseo?T80
Z X AT TM
3uPTzb?n 'p^0ss
aanaIO 'b
shea l leluayq
anT3uao3y
snoobro0
3ur0T3
eAT3anpe5
buzTTnbag
sattul le)oos
Z x snoraixaci
SIYIi lealsdud
Player 
G a DeBarthe
Character 
Maya Jimenez
Chronicle 
Daylight Madness
Nature
Loner
Demeanor 
Visionary
Concept 
Traveling Performer
Regnant 
Kekkova Romanovich
Regnant's Clan 
Gangrel
HavenWith Kekkova


it r
i
i
i
i
i
i
Then come Abilities . Three Traits' worth of Performance
is a must .
Masquerade
and Kindred Lore seem natural as well, because Maya and
Kekkova spend considerable time together on the road .
Gina chooses the Celerity Discipline ; Maya's much more into flight than
fight .
Maya's only Status Trait is Recognized, so she marks it down and moves
on. As for Influences, knowing the ins and outs of Transportation (x 3) seems
appropriate, since Maya and Kekkova travel a lot . All ghouls start with four
Blood Traits, so Gina puts those down along with a single Willpower Trait
.
Basic character creation is done at this point, but Gina wants some
maneuverability points-wise . She gives her ghoul the Negative Trait : Deli-
cate . Gina also wants Maya to be able to learn other Disciplines over time, so
she gives her the Merit: Learn Other Disciplines. Combined with her Negative
Trait, this puts her two Traits in the hole . The balance will have to be made
up somehow. Gina chooses the two-trait Flaw : Insomnia .
Satisfied, Gina sits down to flesh out the details of Maya's pre-ghoul
existence . This record, as well as her character sheet, is shown to a Storyteller
before game time for approval. When play begins, Kekkova is "reunited" with
her favorite ghoul .
The Becoming
I don't like your tragic sighs,
as if your god has passed you by .
Well, hey fool, that's your deception .
- Sarah McLachlan, "Ice"
Making Mortal Characters into Ghouls
In a Mind's Eye Theatre game, new mortals who catch a vampire's eye
can expect to be ghouled . The transformation from normal human to ghoul
begins with the introduction of vampire blood, one Blood Trait's worth, into
the mortal's system . The vitae must somehow enter the body of the intended
ghoul, whether orally or intravenously, or else it has no effect . Topical
applications of vitae are inevitably failures (not even pouring vampire blood
into open wounds has a very high success rate), and are extremely humiliating
to the vampires caught attempting them .
If the vampire making a ghoul has the Flaw : Thin Blooded, or is of 13th
generation, a Static Challenge must be made to determine if the ghouling
succeeds. If the vampire wins the mortal becomes a ghoul (would-he creators
with Thin Blooded lose all ties) . Ghouls created by Thin Blooded vampires
acquire the same Flaw . Otherwise the mortal character becomes a perfectly
"healthy" ghoul .


∎
A mortal character acquires a few things immediately upon becoming a
ghoul . The first is the Blood Trait that her creator injects into her system. The
second is an additional Trait in her Primary Attribute category . This Trait,
as well as any Disciplines learned, is lost should the character ever return to
full mortal status .
On the other hand, each new ghoul loses a Humanity Trait instantly
.
This Trait is gone forever . It will not automatically return if the ghoul rejoins
the mass of humankind .
Humanity
A man feared he might find an assassin ;
Another that he might find a victim .
One was more wise than the other .
- Stephen Crane
Humanity is one of the most important parts of a ghoul's being . It
describes how close a ghoul is to his human nature . Conversely, it is also a
measure of how thoroughly a ghoul has been sucked into his Regnant's
culture. Humans normally start out with four Humanity Traits, and can
ascend to a total of eight . Most ghouls start out with three (one is lost when
the blood is taken). Revenants start with one Humanity Trait, and may never
obtain more than four (only Grimaldi ghouls may get this far ; members of the
other families are restricted to one) . Revenants' existence is so essentially
inhuman that it is impossible for them to empathize fully with normal people
.
While humans and other ghouls can never lose their last Humanity Trait,
Revenants can and often do .
Humanity Traits
Benevolent, Charitable, Chivalrous, Empathetic,
Fair,
Generous, Giving, Gracious, Helpful, Honorable, Humane,
Innocent, Kind, Liberal, Loyal, Merciful, Moral, Naive, Pious,
Sympathetic and Warm .
46
i
Capitalist society at large deems the equivalent of Humanity Traits to be
disadvantages . Loyalty keeps you on the low end of the corporate ladder,
sympathy gets you mugged, and you can't afford to be merciful . Machiavelli's
Prince is the golden idol of our age, and vampires emulate this ideal to a
frightening degree. Ghouls, as reflections of vampires, may attempt to shed
their Humanity to emulate their masters . But, believe it or not, Humanity
does have its benefits.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I


X11
,~'
11l'&kr C
on I 
 ∎
Using Humanity
The uses of Humanity Traits are varied . Not only can they he used to
power Numina (as stated in Antagonists), they can he used in other
situations .
• Relief from Derangements - A ghoul player can spend one Human-
ity Trait in the presence of a Storyteller early in gameplay to relieve her
character of a fear-related Derangement for the duration of that evening's
play. Derangements triggered by Chimerstry or Obtenebration are affected by
this use of Humanity, while Presence-spawned terrors are not
.
This sort of expenditure of Humanity Traits should he played out .
Whether a character confides in a trusted friend about his constant battle to
work through a Derangement, prays vociferously for strength, or displays the
St. Christopher medal that his mother gave him on her deathbed, there
should he some in-game action to demonstrate the expenditure of this very
important Trait .
• Threats to Life and Limb - Humanity Traits can also be used when
a character's "fight or flight" instinct is triggered . In a survival situation, a
player can spend a Humanity Trait and add one to the Traits being put to the
test . This only works in life-threatening situations .
• True Love - Assuming a ghoul has a True Love (Storytellers should
know about this sort of thing in advance ; making up the light of your life on
the spot tends to stretch credulity a hit), a Humanity Trait can be used as it
is for Threats to Life and Limb if the loved one is in mortal danger .
Similarly, a Humanity Trait can be used in place of a regular Trait during
a character's initial bid if his loved one is at risk during the challenge . This
is quite useful, particularly if the character no longer has an appropriate Trait
to hid but is compelled to act anyway. A Humanity Trait used in this way is
lost, regardless of the outcome of the challenge .
Losing Humanity
If a ghoul enters a frenzy and harms or kills someone, a check must be
made to see if the character loses a Humanity Trait . (If no one is hurt, the
ghoul suffers no long-term scars from the frenzy .) If someone is indeed injured
as a result of a ghoul's frenzy, the ghoul must win a Static Social Challenge
against four Traits. If the ghoul wins the challenge, he is unaffected by his
experience and maintains all Humanity . If the ghoul loses, he acquires a
Derangement (to be determined by the Storyteller) . He also loses a Humanity
Trait, though not permanently .
In the event that the ghoul kills someone during frenzy, accidentally or
otherwise, an immediate challenge must he made against a Storyteller or
Narrator. This takes the form of two Static Challenges, for which the ghoul
must bid a Humanity Trait . Loss of one challenge or a tie in both temporarily
4 7


I
I
libel' c
S Goal e5
costs the Trait that was hid and gives the ghoul a Derangement (Storyteller
choice). If the ghoul ties one test and loses the other, or loses both, he
permanently loses the Humanity Trait he bid and acquires a Derangement
.
A ghoul can only permanently lose a Humanity Trait from frenzying if he
kills someone . (This heinous act lowers the character's maximum Humanity
by one Trait.) Under no other circumstances can a character lose Humanity
permanently (allowing for Storyteller discretion- an exception can he made
in the case of torturers, vivisectors and the like) . Humanity Traits lost
temporarily can be regained with experience and good roleplaying . Humanity
Traits that are permanently lost cannot be restored under any normal
circumstances .
Of course, if a ghoul kills someone during frenzy but both of his Static
Challenges are successes, he loses no Humanity Traits and doesn't gain any
Derangements .
For Example
Dana's character has a maximum of seven Humanity Traits. At
the moment she only has six (the result of using one earlier in the
evening). However, she has just killed an innocent bystander while
in the throes of a Frenzy. She immediately finds a Storyteller and
tells him what happened .
The Storyteller conducts the mandatory Humanity check .
Dana announces that she's bidding her Humanity Trait Innocent ;
this will serve as the hid for both challenges . In the first challenge, the
Storyteller comes up Rock while Dana comes up Scissors . The
second attempt finds both Storyteller and Dana with Rock. Dana
loses one challenge and ties the other, so permanently loses Inno-
cent, a Trait that she can never regain . In addition, the Storyteller
assigns Dana the Derangement : Undying Remorse, because her
character is so concerned with keeping her Humanity .
From hereon, Dana can only have a maximum of six Humanity
Traits. Her innocence (not to mention her Innocent) is lost forever .
Frenzies aren't the only way to lose Humanity . Acts of outrageous or
unnecessary cruelty, crimes or other immoral acts can all lead to the leaching
of a ghoul's Humanity . On the following page is a chart of some actions that
can lead to Humanity loss, and the penalties associated with them .


Scale of Wrongdoing, Challenges and Penalties
Purposely inflicting
Static vs. 4 Soc
injury
Loss of Humanity Trait bid,
can be bought back with expe-
rience points.
Theft and robbery
Static v
5 Soc .
Loss of Humanity Trait bid,
can be bought back with ex-
perience points .
Unreasoning
destruction
Static vs . 6 Soc
.
Loss of Humanity Trait bid,
in be bought back with expe-
rience points .
Accidental killing
tatic
Loss of one challenge or tie of
both; loss of Humanity Trait
bid (to be gained hack with
es.perience), and gain Derange-
i vent of Storyteller choice . Loss
,f one challenge and one tie,
it loss of both ; permanent loss
of Humanity Trait bid, and gain
Derangement of Storyteller
choice .
Premeditated Murder 2 Slat is vs . 6 Soc. [-(, s s of either challenge results
in permanent loss of Human-
ity Trait bid and gain of one
Derangement of Storyteller
choice. Humanity Traits can-
no t exceed six afterward .
Mass murder, torture
3 Static vs . 9 Soc . Loss of even one challenge
results in the permanent loss
of two Humanity Traits and
the gain of two Derange-
ments, both Storyteller
choice. Humanity Traits lost
are permanent, subtracted
from current maximum of Hu
-manity Traits available to the
character .
Crime
Challenge
Potential Penalty


Roleplaying
Remember, losing Humanity is a terrible thing . The erosion of a ghoul's
soul profoundly affects the character's personality. The more Humanity a
ghoul loses, the closer she comes to her Regnant's Beast, the harder it becomes
for her to break her Bond, the more she retreats from human society and the
less useful she becomes to her Regnant. Characters who lose Humanity tend
to be cynical, jaded and vicious ; the loss of even one Trait can have a
noticeable effect on long-established behavior patterns .
Regaining Humanity
Regaining Humanity Traits depends on how you lost them. Humanity
spent to power Numina, save a loved one, counteract a fear, or face a life-
threatening situation can be regained in time (in other words, by the next
event all Traits spent this way return) . Ghouls who are in a hurry or in
desperate need can also spend a Willpower Trait to regain a Humanity Trait
.
Humanity Traits lost in a Humanity test may be bought back with
experience points (to the ghoul's current rating), unless those Traits were lost
permanently . Humanity Traits lost permanently can only be regained through
extraordinary penance, decreed by a Storyteller and roleplayed out over a
series of sessions . Humanity lost should never be returned lightly .
Storytellers should take note of characters who constantly lose and
regain Humanity Traits . If this situation becomes chronic, the Storyteller
may declare that the character has become jaded, and may no longer attempt
to regain Humanity Traits that have been lost .


Abilities
The Abilities in this section are either new or restated from previous
hooks to suit the lifestyle and needs of a ghoul . They can be used by any sort
of ghoul, whether Hunter, Servior or revenant . Ghouls may take these
Abilities multiple times to demonstrate increased expertise . Thus, a ghoul
with Steward x 1 may be able to run his Regnant's haven for a night or two,
but a ghoul with Steward x 4 could fend off all manner of outside threats to his
sleeping Regnant by using the haven's defenses to their utmost potential
.
Animal Affinity
Animal Affinity describes how well a ghoul relates o normal, nonghoul
animals. In addition to making the ghoul with this Ability inoffensive to
animals (a la Animalism), the Ability imparts a degree of empathy with the
animal condition. Ghouls who train animals should not be without Animal
Affinity .
Animal Affinity also grants some small measure of control over creatures .
When a ghoul with Animal Affinity makes a command or request of an animal,
the creature must make a Mental Challenge to understand and carry out the
order . As with Animal Ken, the difficulty of the test is based on the animal's
level of domestication and the complexity of the task
.
The character need only make a Static Challenge to calm an injured,
attacking or frightened animal .
Blood Lore
This Ability indicates your knowledge of the Blood Bond . You know that
you are Bound, you know that your feelings for your Regnant are false, and you
may have some idea of how to break the Bond . Ghouls with this Ability have
the potential to destroy the unlives of their Regnants . To learn this Ability,
speak with your Storyteller to see if it is appropriate for your character .
Haven Scouting
This Ability is invaluable o both Servitors and Hunters . This is the
capacity to find a new haven for your Regnant if he needs one fast, or to sniff
out likely places where a vampire might have gone o ground for the day
.
Almost all applications of Haven Scouting require Mental Challenges, with
the difficulty determined by either the ghoul's time remaining before dawn
or his familiarity with his quarry .
Hunter Lore
Closely related to Lupine Lore, this shows your knowledge of different
types of Hunters (and not just ghouled ones), their reputations and some of
their tactics . This can help you protect your Regnant or yourself. Gaining


L
52
1
1
1
1
1
N
information on a Hunter works in the same way that it does for Lupine Lore .
However, researching a Hunter's tactics or abilities requires a Mental Chal-
lenge . Obviously the difficulty of the challenge depends on the type of
information being sought .
Kindred Lore
This is your familiarity with your Regnant's lineage and the mysteries
shrouding her unnatural evolution . This Ability can aid you greatly in either
blackmailing your Regnant or sweet-talking her into cutting you a little slack
.
In addition, this Ability gives you accurate information on what does and
doesn't kill vampires, enabling you to separate fact from myth
.
Lupine Lore
Well, you know there are vampires out there, so why not believe in
werewolves, too? You know they're in the woods, you may know how much
they hate vampires, and you definitely know how much vampires hate them
.
With enough experience invested in this Ability, you may even discover
where the local Lupine pack hangs out . The use of this Ability requires a
Social Challenge with the difficulty directly affected by the Rank and
Renown of the werewolf in question, or by the relative secrecy of the meeting
place .
Masquerade
This Ability can he a real icebreaker at parties, though not always a good
one unless you're in with a gaggle of good-humored Malkavians . This Ability
allows you to pass for a vampire - an especially useful skill for a Hunter.
There's nothing like being able to walk into a city and he presented to the
prince, particularly when you intend to jam a sharpened croquet post through
his wishbone .
This Ability allows a single re-test on Aura Perceptions performed against
ghouls who possess it . It does not, however, fool the Garou Gift : Sense Wyrm .
Medical Knowledge
You know a great deal about medical procedures, just as the name
suggests. This Ability can he invaluable to a ghoul, as the mostly living have
only limited use of blood to heal their wounds . Medical Knowledge also allows
a character to perform medical procedures on other ghouls and living
creatures with similar physiologies (humans - yes; Garou in Crinos form -
no). This can halt a bleeding character's decline of Health Levels, or stabilize
a Dying character at Incapacitated . Multiple Traits of Medical Knowledge
allow a character to stabilize a Dying character for up to an hour before she
needs to go to a hospital .


 1 1 1 1 1 1
I
Liap1er 3 hoari
er ~ ation
∎
To accomplish any of these feats, a ghoul must make a Static Mental
Challenge against six Traits . The challenge should become more difficult
according to the number and severity of injuries the ghoul is attempting to
heal .
Medical Knowledge can also be extended to other uses . Ghouls with this
Ability can assess the effects of drugs and dosages, ascertain causes of death,
diagnose diseases and otherwise put their knowledge of how human anatomy
works to good use .
Sniping
Ghouls with this Ability are so in tune with vampires that they can pick
one out in a crowd. They can instinctively spot the predator . Working almost
like a psychic power, this is really more of a subconscious assessment of the
hallmarks of vampires .
Sniping basically grants a ghoul a very specific sort of Aura Perception . By
using Sniping, a ghoul can enter a Social Challenge with a single target . If the
ghoul wins, he may ask if his target is a vampire or not . The target cannot lie
in response to this question, and even Mask of 1000 Faces cannot hide a
vampire from a talented ghoul who knows Sniping.
Steward
Every vampire should be so lucky or intelligent as to have a ghoul with
this Ability . Steward demonstrates a ghoul's grasp of his Regnant's affairs, day-
or nighttime. A ghoul with this Ability can run every aspect of his Regnant's
haven . This Ability is useful for defending the haven against invaders, but it
can also be brought to bear should a ghoul decide to defect from his Regnant's
service . Not only is a good Steward fully stocked with blackmail material on
his Regnant, but he just might know her haven better than she does.
Blood Use
For the blood is the life .
- Deuteronomy, 12 :23
Unlike mortals, ghouls begin play with four Blood Traits . This includes
the three normal ones that humans have, plus one Trait's worth of vampiric
blood . Ghouls can actually have up to six Blood Traits (three human, three
vampiric) in their systems at any given time, but any more causes harm at the
rate of one Health Level per additional Blood Trait
.
Unlike vampires, ghouls do not need blood to exist, save for those ghouls
who have exceeded what their natural life spans would have been . Ghouls can
use blood to heal, though only nonaggravated wounds . Aggravated damage,
caused by things such as fire, Garou claws and teeth, vampire fangs and claws,


or weapons treated with blood from Quietus, can only be healed with the
passage of time .
Ghouls are a hit more fragile than vampires, however, and ghouls who are
down by two or more Health Levels are in serious danger . In addition, a ghoul
who empties his Blood Pool must win a Static Challenge against six Physical
Traits or die from blood loss . If the ghoul wins, enough vampire blood remains
in his system o allow him to cling o life, however feebly
.
Health
A sound mind in a sound body, is a short but full description of a happy state
in this world-
- John Locke, Some Thoughts Concerning Education
As ghouls are still to some extent human, Health Levels work differently
for them than for vampires. For a ghoul, the four Health Levels below Healthy
are Bruised, Wounded, Incapacitated and Dying . There is no Torpor for a
ghoul; once her heart stops she is dead . An Incapacitated ghoul is not
unconscious, however . She simply may not engage in any challenges, and is
completely at the mercy of those around her .
As their hearts still pump, ghouls also have the unfortunate problem of
bleeding when wounded . A ghoul who is Wounded will, after 10 minutes
without medical attention, lose a Blood Trait and slip down to Incapacitated .
An Incapacitated ghoul, if not treated within 10 minutes, will lose another
Blood Trait and slip down to Dying . Dying ghouls will lose a Blood Trait every
10 minutes until they are tapped out ; at this point death is the likely result .


i
i
C +apler 3 Oiuaekr Creut on
The only other one is the Embrace, but players are advised not to count on
this sort of rescue .
Bleeding can be stopped with a minimum of medical attention . Any
character with medicine-related Abilities can tend to an injured ghoul and
stop the downward spiral of blood loss . The character does this by announcing
that she is attempting to stop the bleeding, and then by winning or tying a
Static Mental Challenge . However, a ghoul who is bleeding to death and is
already Incapacitated (or worse) cannot treat herself. As the ghoul cannot
participate in a challenge, it is impossible for her to perform the Static Mental
Challenge and stop her own bleeding .
Bleeding from aggravated wounds can also he stopped in this manner, but
the structural damage caused by the wound can only be healed with intense
medical attention (read : hospitalization) . Ghouls heal one Level of aggra-
vated damage per game session if they spend their downtime receiving medical
care . Otherwise, Storyteller discretion is advised .
Aging
Age doth not rectify, but incurvate our natures, turning had dispositions into
worser habits .
- Sir Thomas Browne, Religio Medici
The revenant families aside, ghouldom is not a permanent state . Ghouls
will revert to true humanity after 30 days without a Trait's worth of vampire
blood. This time limit is absolute, and the switchover is instantaneous . A
ghoul who reverts to her mortal state loses any additional Traits related to her
ghouling, not to mention all of her Disciplines . If she becomes a ghoul again,
the Traits are returned but the highest level attained in each Discipline is lost
(you always retain the most basic level of any Discipline, though) . Nor are lost
Humanity Traits regained ; the character has seen too much to return to
innocence .
In addition, vampire blood keeps ghouls young . If a ghoul with under a
hundred years of service stops receiving vitae, he begins to age normally from
that point onward . Ghouls who have been in their current states for more
than a century face a slightly different problem . These old-timers begin to age
at an advanced rate, effectively 10 or more times normal . In game terms, for
every hour past deadline, an aged ex-ghoul must win a Static Physical
Challenge against 10 Traits . If she ties or loses, she drops one Health Level
(though without bleeding), loses a Physical Trait and gains a Negative
Physical Trait (Storyteller's choice) . The Trait changes are permanent, even
if the character does later manage to acquire vampire blood again .
Characters who lose and regain their not-quite-human status cease to age
the moment they become ghouls again . The restored ghouls do not grow more
youthful with new infusions of vitae . A ghoul's existence is a holding action
against time, and nothing more .


I
4
56 VI
if
If a character, against all logic, somehow manages to keep poking along
without vampire blood for an extended period of time, Storytellers should feel
free to intercede and help nature take its course .
Another Vampire Trait
One of the more remarkable things about ghouls is their ability to frenzy .
Ghoul frenzies are more rare than their vampiric counterparts, usually only
occurring when a ghoul faces imminent destruction . However, when Hu-
manity fails, the Beast, the overwhelming desire to survive, takes over .
frenzies can also be brought on by incredible amounts of stress, triggered
Derangements or by the Animalism Discipline .
When a ghoul is in a situation in which her Humanity cannot help her
escape, and all of her Willpower is gone, she may declare that she is in frenzy .
Ghoul Frenzy works much like vampiric frenzy . The ghoul becomes violent
and attacks blindly in desperate need to escape . While in frenzy, a ghoul may
ignore damage penalties to the point of death, but she cannot use blood to
heal and is still susceptible to blood loss . Any damage done to a ghoul past
Dying will kill her .
Derangements can also trigger frenzy in a ghoul . A ghoul under the
influence of her Derangement(s), or who is being pressured about them by
another character, may slide into a frenzy as a form of self-defense . In this case,
the ghoul makes a Static Mental Challenge against 10 Traits . If she ties or
fails, she goes into frenzy .
Ghouls do not gain Beast Traits from frenzying . If a ghoul commits a
heinous act while frenzying, a check must be made to see if the character loses
a Humanity Trait. However, if the frenzy passes without anything untoward
happening, there is no need to check for Humanity loss .
The Blood Bond
i
i
When love is repressed, hate takes its place .
- Havelock Ellis, On Life and Sex : Essays of Love and Virtue
The third time is a charm when it comes to ingesting vampire blood
;
that's how many sips it takes to Blood Bond someone . The Bond is henceforth
at the absolute center of a ghoul's life . The more thoroughly he is tied to his
Regnant, the more perfect his Regnant will appear to him and the more
important (or pleasurable) serving her becomes . As the Bond strengthens,
the ghoul finds himself excusing his Regnant's flaws, rationalizing her
tyrannical behavior, and generally surrendering to the overwhelming emo-
tional impact of the vitae .
Of course, a ghoul is still human, and may know or guess that his feelings
are coerced . However, this is not sufficient impetus to allow a ghoul to break
the Bond . Think about it this way: Lovers have their quarrels, and best friends
i
i
i
i
Tiber c es Goules


I
i
I
I
I
can become disgusted with their counterparts' actions, but in most cases they
are apt to forgive or withhold judgment because it's their lover or best friend
.
It works the same way with the Bond .
Bound ghouls are easier to Dominate and coerce than are unbound
ghouls, or even normal humans- Once a vampire has Bound a ghoul to her,
she need no longer make eye contact to use Dominate on the hapless Thrall
.
In addition, many contests between Regnant and Thrall the vampire wins
all ties . However, these effects are Regnant-specific ; a ghoul Bound to the
local Tremere elder won't necessarily be easy for another Ventrue to Domi-
nate .
The saving grace that ghouls have in their Blood Bonds is the fact that
their still-human metabolisms produce plenty of fresh, untainted blood with
which to replenish their systems . If a Regnant doesn't feed a Bound ghoul at
least once a year, the Bond will fade-
Breaking the Bond
The more violent the love, the more violent the anger
.
- Burmese proverb
The ease of breaking from a Bond often has to do with an individual
ghoul's Derangements and Nature . A Loner has a much better chance of
breaking his chains than does a Sycophant. Meanwhile, someone who slips
into childlike behavior during Derangement spells may cling to her Regnant
as a child might an abusive parent .
57


I
There are no set rules for breaking a Blood Bond ; each ghoul must decide
for herself how to become free . Most ghouls, unless mistreated severely, won't
want to break their Bonds . Also consider that a Bound ghoul has a steady
source of vitae ; ghouls on the loose don't necessarily know where their next
metaphysical meals are coming from. Only drastic behavior on the part of a
Regnant should motivate a ghoul to contemplate freedom .
If a ghoul character has a sadistic or cruel Regnant (providing, of course,
that the ghoul doesn't like that kind of treatment), the player should keep a
Storyteller informed of what's going on. In time, and with Storyteller
permission, the ghoul may be able to break free of the vampire's influence .
The escape will not be easy . In fact it should be the single-most-difficult thing
the character experiences in the course of the game . There is a great
emotional struggle between the imposed love of the Bond and the character's
own sense of self. Most ghouls are incapable of winning that battle .
Time can also sever the Bond, but a year without blood will almost
certainly kill old ghouls ; the process calls for caution and a backup source of
vitae. In addition, without vitae, a ghoul is just a normal human being and,
in many cases, a target . Vampirism, like murder, should have no witnesses,
and a ghoul who walks away from the Bond is a threat to the Masquerade
.
Embracing a Ghoul
Even as love crowns you shall he crucify you,
even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning .
- Kahlil Gibran, The Prophet
Sometimes the creation of a ghoul is the equivalent of a test drive for a
vampire. Creating a ghoul enables him to see how well a potential childe
might work out . Would-be sires can keep an eye on their ghoul prospects and
come to decisions at their leisure . A ghoul character who is observed in this
fashion could remain a ghoul for any length of time, ranging from a month to
a decade to forever if the vampire decides that she is unsuitable for elevation
.
On the other hand, there are those vampires who kill their failed would-be
progeny . The possible reward in a situation like this is great, but so is the risk .
If a Regnant decides to take a drastic step with her ghoul and Embrace
him, the process functions largely like the Embrace of a mortal . Embraced
ghouls retain all of their previously learned Disciplines, and acquire those
Traits that go into making a vampire . They do, however, lose all of their
Humanity Traits and any Numina they might have possessed .
(Note : Ghouls who are Embraced do not receive a complete set of new
Disciplines on top of the ones they already possess . Instead, those Disciplines
already learned go toward rounding out the new vampire's initial allotment .)


 I Ch
1er 3 l header Creation
Willpower
The good or ill of man lies within his own will .
- Epictetus, Discourses
In times of desperation and strife, people have been known to do things
that would normally be impossible . These superhuman efforts are said to he
the product of chemistry, but in the World of Darkness this capacity is
represented by Willpower. One of a ghoul's few weapons against the en-
croaching inhumanity of the World of Darkness, Willpower wraps up her
desire to live and her sense of self into a single package . It is what makes
Bonding ghouls necessary, and also makes it possible to throw off the Blood
Bond .
Ghouls start with a single Willpower Trait . Later, they can buy up to six
during the course of the game. Willpower Traits can he used for multiple
things :
• A ghoul can spend a Willpower Trait to negate instances of frenzy .
• Willpower can bring a ghoul back up to full in one Attribute category
(Physical, Mental or Social)
.
• Willpower can also be used to ignore the effects of any wounds, up to
and including Incapacitation, for the duration of one challenge . However, no
application of Willpower is capable of healing a character .
• A Willpower Trait can he spent to stave off incipient death for 15
minutes, assuming nothing else is done to send the character further on his
way to the grave .
• A Willpower Trait can he expended to ignore the effects of any one
Mental or Social Challenge, including ones from a ghoul's Regnant, if and
only if the effects of the challenge would cause the ghoul to perform an action
that would be deeply at odds with her Nature or personal ethics .
Keep in mind that once a Willpower Trait is gone, it is unavailable until
the end of a story . At that time, a ghoul regains all the Willpower he used . A
Narrator or Storyteller can grant Willpower more frequently to players who
exhibit exceptional roleplaying or great improvement in their roleplaying
style, but such rewards should be handed out infrequently at best .
 1
59


 
I I I I I I
 i
i
i
i
i i I
Tiber
t es Gc)u es
I
 ∎
Ghoul Merits and Flaws
The sunshine, too light, the ocean too wide,
I'm sick of your cliche,
The sky is kind, love is blind,
You can't let go of the lost pain .
- Cibo Matto, " Le Pain Perdu"
Psychological
Aware of False Love: (2 Trait Merit)
Ghouls possessing this Merit are aware of the nature of the Blood Bond .
They know that what they feel for their Regnants is not natural, and are
therefore more capable when dealing with their feelings
.
If you have this Merit, your Regnant is two Traits down when attempting
to coerce or Dominate you in any way .
Cannibalism: (3 Trait Flaw)
The first taste of your Regnant's blood turned you on to the taste of raw
flesh. Now you think that human tartare is the only way to go . This Flaw can
get so demanding that you might scour the streets for the "other" white meat .
The whole thing becomes a brutal obsession, and you settle for nothing less
than the taste of human . Cows, pigs, chickens - they're all safe from you . It's
homo sapiens a la mode that satisfies your craving, and if you can't get a fix you
just might go mad . . . .
Ostentatious Toady: (3 Trait Flaw)
You have thrived since your Regnant first gave you her blood . The power
she grants you is apparent in your unnatural strength, toughness and speed .
The only problem (and you'd never admit it) is the fact that you know you
would he nothing without the blood . Your Regnant is the only thing that
makes you truly alive . As a result, you constantly try to impress her, even if
the attempt means risking your life . You must spend a Willpower Trait
whenever you're faced with a particularly juicy chance to show off for your
Regnant. For example, if your Regnant mentions that she wishes for a
pompous Ventrue primogen to he run over with a steamroller, you might dial
up construction-equipment companies and inquire about rentals .
Squeamish: (2 Trait Flaw)
When your Regnant first made you into a ghoul, you were nearly ill . How
could she make you drink her blood? You can't deny the tremendous
advantages that her vitae (That sounds better now, doesn't it? We'll call it vitae,


I
I
I
I
I
Ciapier 3 ajarader Crei& n
and that way we can pretend it's not blood.) has provided, but you must spend
a Willpower Trait every time you drink . If faced with a gruesome scene
(combat doesn't count, unless people are really messy), you must either leave
immediately or win a Static Challenge to bear the sight of the gore . If the
challenge is lost, you may still stay, but feel extremely ill . To reflect this
queasiness, you lose two Physical Traits (you can regain them with one
Willpower Trait) and gain the Negative Trait : Witless for the duration of the
scene .
Swept Away: (2 Trait Flaw)
Ah, the beauty of it all! After you got over the initial shock of your
Regnant's true nature, you were enthralled by the romance and heartbreaking
tragedy of vampirism . You are needed, loved, provided for- how wonderful!
A ghoul who is Swept Away basically blinds himself to the nature of his
relationship with his Regnant . His master may be cruel or abusive, but in the
end it doesn't matter. The ghoul sees her only through rose-colored glasses .
A character with this Flaw is down two Traits when his Regnant attempts to
Dominate him .
Mental
Insomnia: (2 Trait Flaw)
Try as you might, much-needed sleep never comes to you . This problem
has been nagging at you since the trauma of your first taste of vitae, and the
falling of the scales from your eyes . The best you can manage is a fitful hour
of dozing or a catnap here or there . It wouldn't he so had if you didn't need the
rest so badly - lack of sleep is just wearing you down .
To reflect the effects of your affliction, you start every event at full Traits
.
At the halfway point of the game, however, your current Mental, Physical and
Social Trait ratings all decrease by one .
Well Rested : (I Trait Merit)
You need very little sleep . As few as three hours out of a full 24 will
normally let you wake up brighteyed and bushytailed (so to speak) . This can
greatly aid your Regnant by allowing you to help her all night and for part of
the day, as well as allowing you to live your own life .
Supernatural
Animal Friendship: (2 Trait Merit)
Not only do animals find you inoffensive, they actively like you . You
have an extraordinary rapport with animals that convinces them to come
when called and occasionally aid you at your request . Of course, the animals'
i^,


62
 I
i1ber t us (oules
I
exact reactions to your requests depends on their degree of domestication,
native intelligence, and sense of self-preservation . This Merit works well with
the Animal Affinity Ability.
Learn Other Disciplines : (3 Trait Merit)
You are one of the lucky few who has the ability to learn Disciplines
beyond a ghoul's basic bill of fare . However, you must have a mentor to teach
you these new powers . Otherwise, all the talent in the world won't help you
pick up Auspex .
The price for each level of any new Discipline is exactly the same as if a
ghoul were a vampire character buying an out-of-clan Discipline. Thus, if a
ghoul were to try to learn the basic level of Auspex (Heightened Senses), she
would have to hunt up a willing teacher and spend five experience points .
Note : Protean and Thaumaturgy are the only two Disciplines that may not
he learned with this Merit .
Light Sensitivity: (3 Trait Flaw)
The Beast is strong in your Regnant's blood, strong enough to cause you
problems in daylight . You can bear only short jaunts into the sunlit world, and
even then you must cover up and wear sunglasses . Those same sunglasses must
he worn indoors in well-lit spaces to avoid the excruciating pain that bright
light causes you . You have no trouble with moonlight, and don't need
sunglasses after sunset unless you go somewhere well lit (like a mall or a
nighttime baseball game) . Prolonged exposure (10 minutes) to direct sun-
light causes you normal damage at the same rate at which a vampire takes
aggravated damage .
I
Poaching Ghouls
I
Vampires want the best of anything, including ghouls . So
if a vampire sees that another of his kind has a desirable or useful
ghoul, he may decide to make that ghoul his own. This practice
is called "poaching," and is frowned on by the Camarilla . Of
course, the ones doing the frowning are generally the ones who
have the most talented ghouls (and therefore the most desirable
to poachers) .
Setites make a special habit of stealing others' ghouls, but
the practice is not restricted to them . It's just that poaching is
easy for them to pull off .
0
1
1
I
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I


∎
 
I I
∎
Thin Blooded Regnant : (4 Trait Flaw)
Your Regnant has weak blood, which is both a blessing and curse . Power-
wise she's closer to ghoul level than any vampire has a right to he . Unfortunately,
this doesn't do you any good . You cannot spend any
of your blood on
Disciplines. Worse still, you need your Regnant's blood more often because
it just barely sustains your immortality . If you don't have her blood every
week, you run the risk ofreverting back to full mortality . Other vampires will
also actively seek to steal (or "poach") ghouls who have this Flaw
.
Unbondable : (3 point Merit)
This Merit is the ace up many a ghoul's sleeve. You cannot he Bound and
are therefore are immune to the disadvantages of the condition . However,
you have to keep this a secret from your "Regnant," or he might be disinclined
to retain you .
I
I
I
Kindred Ties
Blackmail Material: (1-3 Trait Merit)
You have somehow garnered very embarrassing information on a vam-
pire of indeterminate Status . The Status of your victim and juiciness of the
information depend on how many points you spend on the Merit and on the
imagination of your Storyteller- Of course, you can always suggest some-
thing . . . .
Clan Weakness: (3 Trait Flaw)
Perhaps your Regnant's blood is particularly potent, or maybe there's
more darkness in your soul than you realized . At any rate, you have taken on
the clan weakness of the vampire to whom you are Blood Bound . For example,
Ventrue ghouls find they gain no benefits from the blood of any other clan,
and Assamite ghouls take damage from other clans' blood .
Revenants may not take this Flaw .
Prestigious Regnant: (I Trait Merit)
Your Regnant has or had great Status in the sect, and this has accorded
you a peculiar honor . Most treat you respectfully, ghoul or not . This prestige
can aid you greatly when you deal with vampires acquainted with your
Regnant . As long as she's around, you're in the clear. If something were to
happen to you, you can rest assured one of your Regnant's allies would take
care of - or avenge - you .
Sabbat ghouls may take this Merit if they can find sufficient justification
for doing so . However, situations in which Prestigious Regnant come into play
for a Sabbat ghoul are few and far between .
63
1


64
Sugar Daddy : (I Trait Merit)
A vampire is quite interested in you . Perhaps it's for the information you
can provide him on your Regnant, or maybe he just likes your company
.
Whatever the reason, you've been pragmatic enough to keep channels to him
open . If you need help, he may provide you with blood and a limited amount
of other resources .
The main idea behind this Merit is survival, pure and simple . After all,
in the World of Darkness, nothing is a sure thing . Your secret friend is
insurance against your Regnant and other vampiric machinations .
Twisted Upbringing: (I Trait Flaw)
Your Regnant has taught you all the wrong things about vampire society
out ofthe goodness of her little black heart. Whether she told you that all the
legends about garlic and running water are true or convinced you that she and
all other vampires are extraterrestrials, the fact is that you bought it, lock,
stock and barrel. These false ideas are bound to get you into trouble, and you
will not believe any attempts to set you straight . Over time you can learn the
truth and buy off this Flaw, but not until a Storyteller grants you permission .
World of Darkness Ties
Garou Ally: (2 Trait Merit)
Although both vampire and Garou societies frown on friendly interac-
tion, exceptions can and do happen . That doesn't mean the local powers that
he approve of such alliances ; if your friendship were unmasked, the conse-
quences could he grave for you and your furry friend . Whether you are Kinfolk
or the two of you were old friends before either knew anything about the
Wyrm or Caine, your friendship has held through all adversity . You have the
right to call on your friend if you need help, and she has the right to call on
you in return . In most cases, the Storyteller should create the allied character .
Physical
Damned Visage: (I Trait Merit)
You have the uncanny ability to appear as one of the undead . Your skin
is pale, your breathing is indiscernible, your hands are ice-cold, and your
blinking appears practiced and unnatural . While you can't stop your heart
from heating, you can spend a Blood Trait to slow your pulse to the point
where it's not discernible . The only drawback to this Merit is the risk you run
offooling a Hunter so well that he might try to stake you . On the other hand,
if somebody leaves you out to greet the sun, you can laugh all the way home
.


Efficient Digestion : (3 Trait Merit)
You are able to go without vampire blood longer than most ghouls
. In
fact, you have experimented and found that you can go for two
months
without a drop of the good stuff. You also seem to benefit from the experience
of feeding from your Regnant more than other ghouls do . Every two Blood
Traits he gives you increases your Blood Pool by three (round fractions down)
.
Inefficient Digestion: (3 Trait Flaw)
You need twice as much blood as other ghouls ; each Blood Trait Your
Regnant grants you only counts for half . If she gives you four, you only receive
two. Halves are rounded down, so gulping down one Blood Trait has no effect
on you whatsoever .
Low Pain Threshold : (2 Trait Flaw)
You hate pain and cannot understand how your Regnant hears biting her
wrist to give you blood . You always think to yourself, "Oh, how that must
hurt!" Indeed, the sympathy pain you feel ruins your enjoyment of the vitae .
You don't like to see anything or anyone hurt . Most important, however, is
the fact that you don't like seeing yourself hurt . Resistance to pain is not your
forte, and the slightest amount of agony sends you into a panic or a fainting
fit. While normal injuries do not do you any additional physical damage, the
sheer psychological impact has a devastating effect . You will do anything to
make pain stop, ranging from overdosing on painkillers to spilling all of your
Regnant's secrets .


tom/
e
I
I
I
I
I
Tiber t us '(icules
∎ 
∎
If you are subjected to threats of bodily harm, you gain the Negative
Trait: Submissive for the remainder of the evening . If somebody actually
attempts to hurt you, you either cower or flee in terror . If you can't get away,
beg for mercy and debase yourself in any way in order to keep yourself from
getting hurt. Once safely away from the person who threatened you, you do
your best to never, ever be near him again, to the point of avoiding any room
he occupies .
Unnatural Appearance: (2 Trait Flaw)
You are marked for life, whether your Regnant is a Tzimisce or vitae made
the Beast manifest in your appearance. The unnatural aspect of your appear-
ance could be an animal feature, an odd vampiric pallor to your skin, or even
something inhuman in the way you move .
When afflicted with this Flaw, you are down two Traits in any Social
Challenge concerning your appearance . In addition, working with the
human population at large is nigh impossible . You must shroud yourself
whenever you go out in public, and relations with your human friends must
be completely broken off. Nosferatu and Gangrel ghouls may not take this
Flaw if they already have the Flaw : Clan Weakness .
Vitae Sink: (2 Trait Flaw)
You need your Regnant's blood, and you need it often . It seems you can't
go for longer than two weeks without it or you revert back to human state . If
you have been a ghoul for over a century, this Flaw can be downright deadly
.
Derangements
Sanity is a madness put to good uses ; waking life is a dream controlled .
- George Santayana, Interpretations of Poetry and Religion
A ghoul's initiation into the supernatural can be severely damaging to
her psyche . Vampires are legends made real, nightmares come to horrible life .
The great majority of those given this burdensome insight buckle under its
weight, and consequently gain mental afflictions called Derangements
.
Not every ghoul or vampire begins play with a Derangement, but you may
take one at character creation if it suits your ghoul's concept . If your
character's Regnant is a Malkavian, your character probably starts out with
at least one Derangement, and may gain more as time passes. Ghouls also face
situations that induce Derangements . Just remember that most Derange-
ments are survival mechanisms that the subconscious creates to protect the
conscious from horrid reality .
Below are new Derangements for ghouls, as well as some familiar ones
that have been modified for ghoul purposes . Others may be found in Laws of
the Night, starting on page 44 .
66
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1


Amnesia
I
I
I
I
I
0hapler 3
arA-
1
CPe%lh()n
In highly traumatic situations, you sometimes forget who or even what
you are. This typically occurs when you come face to face with your situation
as a ghoul, or with the nightly reality of the World of Darkness . You could
forget the details of the situation that triggered this response, or you could
forget anything from the evening's events to your name or identity . When you
are confronted by events or situations that threaten to remind you of your
past, you may react violently, pass out or go into a catatonic state rather than
let those memories rush back .
If you are in an incredibly stressful situation, you must perform a Static
Mental Challenge against seven Traits . If you fail, you forget who you are and
what you are doing there . Other memories can be lost at Storyteller discre-
tion .
Blood Thirst
You crave the blood your Regnant gave you at the very beginning of your
ghoulish existence. You will do anything to keep receiving it. You want what
you need and then some - this once-a-month feeding schedule is for the
birds. You will go to great lengths to get vitae, doing anything from lying to
your Regnant about your use of blood, to actively hunting other vampires for
the blood they possess . Even when you know drinking too much will cause you
harm, you cannot help but pursue the intoxicating elixir . When your Regnant
feeds you, you are always tempted to drink all that she has . Whenever you feed
directly from your Regnant, you must test for Frenzy to avoid attempting to
drain her completely .
Compulsive Lying
You were in New York with a friend once - his name isn't important -
and you managed to convince this car dealer (he was pretty hard up to make
a sale) to sell you his brand-new Dodge Viper for, like, a thousand dollars .
What a great deal! He didn't even charge tax or have you go through the
paperwork . He did all that himself. Oh, you want to see the car? Well . . . it's
being repainted . It was this nasty shade of lime green . You say Vipers don't
come in green? Well, this one was a special edition, signed by the president
of the company. What was his name? Well, the signature wasn't very legible
- you know how big businessmen are . . . .
When this Derangement is triggered, you must spend Willpower to avoid
10 full minutes of prevarication. The lies that you spout can be as subtle or
outrageous as you wish . However, the point is that you have a compulsive
need to obscure the truth . "Lies" that are just a way of rephrasing the truth (for
example, "Oh, I'd never be interested in joining your little cabal . Nope, nope,
nope," while making it very clear that you are interested) are directly counter
to the spirit of the Derangement, and hence are forbidden .
In other words, it's cheating . Don't do it .


I
r-^
Delusional Identity
When things get particularly hard to deal with, you often revert to
someone you can trust to do a better job than you can . This new personality
is someone efficient, someone stalwart, someone historic - like General
Patton or Florence Nightingale . Don't worry if nobody believes you when you
introduce yourself; nobody ever believes it when they meet a celebrity . Get
the job at hand done quickly, efficiently and with enough zest to make people
know it really was you who did it .
Psychological Note
U
Delusional Identities often derive from feelings of complete
hopelessness and despair, and can reflect a ghoul's deepest terrors
.
In moments of stress or fear, the ghoul's real personality retreats
and is replaced by an identity (with the same Traits, of course) that
is based on the ghoul's concept of competence . This other self can
he a historical, fictional or composite character . However, Delu-
sional Identities that duplicate other characters already in gameplay
are not allowed .
∎ ~ 
∎
Dipsomania
Dipsomania is the urge to drink yourself into an absolute stupor when the
going gets tough (or even mildly difficult) . Such a Derangement can destroy
the trust that others place in you, and limits your effectiveness in certain
situations. This weakness, should it become known, could he used as a weapon
against you (say, by a rival who offers you drinks to sidetrack you from an
important mission) . If this Derangement comes over you at an event, you are
immediately affected by the Negative Trait : Witless .
Whether or not you are a "happy drunk," you are unsightly in this state
.
You stagger about, weave as you walk, and say all the wrong things . You may
even tell the prince, to your Regnant's everlasting horror, what she really
thinks of him - and have no memory of it the next morning .
Hebephrenia
The horror of the World of Darkness unveiled has shattered your
perceptions of everything you once held as logical and real . This crisis has
plunged you into a state of mind in which you maintain your sanity by clinging
to the idea that everything going on is just in your head . Everyone you know,
well, they're all characters in the little playworld your mind has created . Even
your Regnant is just the lead in your mind's script . Everything she does is
something you make her do, so you really don't mind doing what she asks
.


i
i
if
I
I
I
I
I
C
i
wpler 3
1rdder
lion
Obviously your subconscious wanted her to ask you to do it . Those around you
get pretty mad when you are rude to them, but it doesn't matter because they
aren't real .
Hypochondria
You have noticed that since you became a ghoul, you get sick every time
you face stress . The symptoms are usually limited to a headache or
upset
stomach, but are sometimes much worse . If at any time during an event you
become upset about anything, you begin to think you are coming down with
something suitably viral or nasty . In all probability you are quite healthy, but
you need some kind of excuse to get sympathy from those around you . When
you get "sick" you are effectively be down one Physical Trait for the rest of the
event, or until your "attack" passes .
Immortal Fear
This Derangement reflects an absolute fear of becoming a vampire . You
will go to great lengths to safeguard yourself from becoming one of the living
dead, preferring to die permanently than become a creature cursed and feared
the world over . What's more, you love the sun and everything associated with
it. Any attempt by your Regnant to even broach the subject of your Embrace
is met with either stony silence or panicked protestation . You may even turn
and flee. Should anyone attempt to Embrace you, you must test for Frenzy .
Masochism
Sometimes things go wrong, dreadfully so . Deep down inside, you know
it's all your fault. Since nobody else may necessarily know that you're
responsible, you have to work out a way of keeping yourself in line . You do so
by getting yourself into harmful situations, or by hanging around with people
and creatures who dislike you . You deserve their abuse, it's your penance .
You even tend to injure yourself physically, but never to a degree that
most people would notice . You don't want anybody to know what a terrible
person you are, so you don't leave any marks . If a problem comes up and you
are blamed, even falsely, apologize profusely and offer yourself up to the mercy
of your accuser . Even if you're not responsible for whatever it is, odds are that
karma is just catching up with you for a previous crime.
Obsession
You are obsessed with your Regnant . Nobody loves her like you do, and
you are certain that you know what is best for her . Everybody else misunder-
stands her and seeks to hurt her, so you have to keep them all away . Her other
ghouls may profess to love her, but they are false suitors . Their passion is
nothing compared to your great, all-consuming love .


70
This dangerous Derangement can be activated by the presence of a new
ghoul, or merely by anyone else taking an interest in your Regnant . You would
rather die (taking her with you, of course) than let her he with another .
Panzaism
Since your induction into the ways and world of the vampire, you have
become completely detached . When the Derangement is at its mildest, you
have some trouble with the idea of the world at large being real. In a way, you
seem to he halfway out of your body, simply watching events flow by . Your
body may act, but it all seems so mechanical, so contrived .
When this Derangement is at its worst, things get really interesting . You
"realize" that nothing is real . Nothing. You are nothing . The vampires are
nothing . Everything is unreal . You can't affect the universe and the universe
can't affect you because there is nothing there
. When everything seems to be
going wrong, you wrap yourself up in this mental cocoon and refuse come out
until things are more to your liking .
Power Madness
You are obsessed with control, especially the idea of controlling your
Regnant's affairs . When this Derangement is active, you are so preoccupied
with your megalomaniacal obsessions that you lose all control of yourself .
When your goals are thwarted, you come unglued and attack, either physi-
cally or verbally, those who oppose you . In short, you seek total and absolute
control of your Regnant and her household .
This Derangement can also be translated onto greater or smaller scales .
Some ghouls may want to run their cities . Others may be content with
dominating individual people or sites .
I
I
I


 
I
L~9
~er 3 l-hiui
r Credio ~ I 
'x,,,`11
Quixotism
This Derangement is the opposite of Panzaism . You believe everything
you see or hear. Yes, there are faeries . That guy with all the hair, he's a
werewolf. Oh, and by the way, this pendant same from Atlantis . You'll be out
challenging windmills to personal combat before tea time, at least metaphori-
cally. You probably same from a perfectly mundane background, and nothing
out of the ordinary ever happened to you . However, now that you've been
initiated into the secrets of the World of Darkness, logic has gone out the
window . You are effectively down two Mental Traits whenever you are in a
stressful situation .
Sadism
You resort to cruelty as a response when under pressure . Nothing relieves
your stress like causing people pain . Physical pain isn't all you excel in,
though. Sometimes mental anguish can last mush, mush longer . Whenever
confronted with something that profoundly bothers you, you must either
spend a Willpower Trait or find some way of taking out your anger on
someone immediately .
Sycophancy
If there is one thing you know (and you know it well), it is that you cannot
survive without your Regnant. She made you and she can unmake you . To
keep her from leaving you to die, you do everything she says . In fast, you go
beyond the letter of her law and do things that you think she would like you
to do. If she likes classical music, get her tickets to the symphony . So what if
they cost well over a hundred dollars . Isn't your life worth it? You spend your
Influence Traits on frivolous things to make your Regnant happy, and thus
find yourself caught short when crunch times some .
Revenant Character Creation
Specific guidelines for creating revenant ghoul characters can he found
on page 65 of Antagonists. These are optional, and can be superseded by the
basic ghoul creation guidelines in this book . Note: All revenant ghouls must
pick a Path of Enlightenment at character creation beginning their in-game
existence with a Path rating of 1 . Revenants (with the exception of the
Grimaldis) also have the option of learning Vicissitude as one of their
Disciplines .


'ft
[u n
ter 4 Wep injllltl
Chapter Four.
-14
Roleplaying and
Storytelling
When we cannot act as we wish, we must act as we can .
- Terrence
Storyteller Incentive
There are several reasons for starting players off with mortal or ghoul
characters (the rapid ghouling of mortals is perfectly acceptable in Mind's
Eye Theatre games, and can be used as reward for new players who learn
quickly) . Setting up new players as ghouls instead of vampires reduces the
overpopulation problem endemic to many Masquerade games . It's not
uncommon to find 70 or more vampires in a city that's large enough to support
perhaps one-tenth that number . By starting new characters as ghouls,
Storytellers can maintain population balance .
Introducing ghouls also serves game balance . With new characters
coming in as ghouls instead of vampires, the power level of the average
character drops and gameplay is easier to manage .
Playing ghouls enables you to justify daylight events, and adds another
layer to the intrigues of your game .
Starting players off as ghouls expands newcomers' roleplaying experi-
ence. They learn about the game even as their characters are educated by their
Regnants .
1 -_N t


Ultimately, playing a ghoul can lead to being Embraced . The precious
nature of vampiric existence is emphasized by making players work for this
"advancement ." Who is more likely to appreciate the Embrace : a ghoul who's
given long service in hopes of becoming immortal, or a neonate who was
changed without explanation or cause? Furthermore, who will be better at
roleplaying, the player who's developed a character oward a specific goal
over the course of months of gameplay, or a newcomer who wanders into a
game and is immediately made a vampire as a matter of course?
Player Incentive
This game is primarily about vampires. So why would anyone want o
play a ghoul instead? There are several reasons .
Starting off as a ghoul is a perfectly acceptable way o get involved in any
Mind's Eye Theatre game. This approach is ideal for inexperienced players ;
newcomers may not have had previous exposure o the World of Darkness .
It's a lot easier to play someone who knows little of the true nature of things
when one actually doesn't know what's going on . Starting an uneducated (in
the ways of The Masquerade, at least) player with an uneducated character
also helps to cut down information overload . Newcomers struggling to digest
rules and background and history and character and the Traditions are likely
o be confused. Having a Regnant there o teach her ghoul (while the
Regnant's player helps out the ghoul's player) saves wear and tear on
Narraors, and provides a more immediate source of information .
However, it's unlikely that "mere" ghoul characters will lack for things
to do. Curious vampires will size up the potential threat of any and all


i
i
i
i
i
i
 'L4mprcr 4 ltoiepirnpng
newcomers. So long as overzealous vampire characters don't regard all
mortals as potential blood donors, ghoul characters will get the chance to do
what they need to . In addition, ghouls have a few tricks of their own, and even
a new ghoul may not be as overmatched by a vampire as one might think
.
There are several things to keep in mind when playing a ghoul. A ghoul
is a complex creature, inhuman enough to want to forget her past but human
enough to fear for her future . Within each ghoul, Humanity and Beast engage
in an endless struggle . The paradox is: The ghoul continues to exist only as
long as the struggle within continues . Should Humanity triumph, existence
as a blood drinker becomes unthinkable . Should the Beast win, little is left of
the ghoul's original personality .
Every afternoon or evening, a ghoul wakes up knowing that she is
excluded from both the mortal and immortal worlds . The only sanctuary she
can find is with other ghouls, and even that comfort can he hollow . Still, the
empathy of peers is the only refuge that ghouls can find . Understanding each
other's suffering creates strong bonds between most ghouls, and they tend to
look out for one another, especially those outside their own households
.
Competition for the Regnant's attention can arise within a household, over
duties, and as a result of sheer proximity to people with whom you have little
in common but your blood .
While ghouls are less powerful than their masters, sunlight is the great
equalizer. A ghoul can almost forget the cold, undead hand that clutches at
her heart when the sun warms her skin . But as the sun sets, her double life
resumes . Of course, the vampire won't forget his ghoul's ability to walk the
sunlit streets, and will certainly prepare a duty list .
Whether their Regnants are cruel or kind, all ghouls are enthralled to
them to some degree . A vampire can symbolize everything a ghoul despised
in life, yet she would still do nearly anything her Regnant wanted . How does
it feel for a character to love everything she once hated? How would it feel for
the most independent of individuals to need someone so desperately? This
perverted devotion is unnatural, and most ghouls recognize that . However,
almost all ghouls are helpless to act in the face of the Bond that ties (and gags)
them .
Making the Decision
A player needs to he prepared to explore the uncharted emotional
tragedy of the Blood Bond before she decides to play a ghoul . Playing a Bound
character can demand that a ghoul act contrary to her best interests, out of
the narcotic love that the Bond inspires. This love can make a character do
things that she doesn't want to, things that she would never normally do, or
things that are not necessarily in keeping with her long-term plans . To play
a ghoul is to play a character with less than total free will, and players should
think long and hard before accepting ghoulish restrictions
.


76
1
i
i
i
i
i
Tiber
I CS G011ies
Ghouls who interact with humans can feel a plethora of overwhelming
feelings, from regret to anger to isolation . They can never let others, not even
family or friends, know what is going on in their lives, though. Some break
off relationships to avoid the pain or to spare loved ones the horror of
discovery. The danger of a loved one witnessing a frenzy, the fear of a Regnant
executing a friend as a "lesson" - these are the nightmares that haunt ghouls .
Thus the majority of ghouls slowly but surely step away from their intimate
human relationships . Ultimately, ghouls are more alone in a crowd than they
are on their own .
On the other hand, the benefits intrinsic to being a ghoul can make such
hell worthwhile. Many an Olympic medalist in the World of Darkness has
ingested vampiric blood ; it is the ultimate performance enhancer, and it can't
he spotted in a drug test. Some vampires sponsor athletes, pitting them
against the pawns of Kindred rivals in secret contests of one-upmanship
.
Sports stars, aspiring actors, musicians, politicians, lawyers and computer
programmers have all benefited from the power of a Regnant.
Some ghouls even enjoy vampire politics, despite their status as super-
natural second-class citizens . They find it easy to manipulate their Regnants
after living with them so closely for so long . However, it is still a Herculean
effort to gain any status as a ghoul in vampire society. Some ghouls offset their
loneliness and rejection with the desire to be Embraced, to enter fully at least
one of the worlds they inhabit . Others would rather die than lose all
Humanity to the Beast .
Many vampires Embrace their most outstanding ghouls, as long as this
change in status will not interfere with the ghouls' work . Other reasons for
Embracing ghouls include rewarding servants for exceptional work, or mov-
ing trusted retainers into positions of more authority . Ghouls who are
Embraced are often given more choice in the matter than are other potential
childer. The transition from human to vampire is also less painful for a ghoul
who has already seen vampire society at work .
Embraced ghouls retain the Disciplines they possessed as half-humans,
but now their new clan Disciplines come to them more easily than they might
have . Meanwhile, Disciplines not related to their new clans become as hard
to gain as any out-of-clan powers .
The First Change
The change from mortal to ghoul is important to roleplay . The way the
Regnant introduces her intended ghoul to the World of Darkness is crucial
.
Some vampires take a backhanded approach, tricking their intended Thralls
into drinking the blood in a variety of ways . As soon as a victim of this sort
of deception is Blood Bound and his new abilities manifest, the Regnant
reveals what is really going on . These crucial tidbits are often dropped at a


i
i
i
i
i
i
1T
'
, AnPI e1.
Lieh agiI g
juncture that makes escape difficult or impossible, say, when the first vitae
craving comes on .
Seduction is another means of drawing in a would-be ghoul, with the
Blood Bond applied during the course of romance . When a Regnant reveals
her true nature, a ghoul who has already been Bound is less likely to go into
complete panic. The vampire's revelation to her new ghoul is a shock, of
course, but the love he bears his Regnant no doubt provides him with the
anchor needed to steady him at such a turbulent moment
.
Of course there is always the heartless vampire who swoops down on an
unsuspecting mortal and spirits her away to a cellar, where the victim is Blood
Bound at the would-he Regnant's leisure . Such ghouls are more likely to rebel
down the road ; the trauma of their initiation into the World of Darkness
taints even the love of the Bond .
All of these methods of exposing new ghouls to the supernatural have
profound effects on their subjects . It is important to remember that before
becoming a ghoul, a character's life might have been completely mundane .
The sudden shift of reality can shatter beliefs, ideals and sanity . The challenge
is in imagining how your character handles this rush of information . Think
about it this way : she's just been offered eternal life and powers that no mortal
can possess . In return, she has to agree to serve and protect her benefactor,
who claims to be a vampire . All she has to do is drink this lunatic's possibly
disease-infested blood . . . .
Yes, presentation is very important.


Characterization in Play
When roleplaying, a player assumes the persona of her character . A
character is going to change and be changed like a real person is . These can
be simple behavioral alterations, the products of learning from experience, or
changes can be as grandiose as the manifestations of new Disciplines
.
Subtle changes occur, too ; usually alterations of an emotional or mental
sort. Betrayal is a good example. If a character is betrayed in the course of a
game, she is probably more careful about whom she trusts in the future. Other
characters may not understand this sudden change of heart (they may not
even know about the betrayal), but the player does and doesn't necessarily
need to explain .
People rarely understand what makes others tick, or what their reasons
for actions are, and this should be reflected in-game . Just because a player
knows out-of-game information about another character does not necessarily
make that information her character's knowledge . The information is outside
the game and therefore outside the character's sphere . If the prince is
portrayed by a player's best friend, that doesn't make it right for the two
unrelated characters to be chummy without a good in-game reason .
Experienced players don't need to play their characters according to
stereotypes. Long-time players should look for challenges . If you normally
stick to businesslike characters, creating an extrovert or artist might be a
welcome change . If you're struggling to come up with something different
(everybody's creative well runs dry at some point), another point of view can
 
Tiber i uswi us
I
A Little Common Sense
If your character has irritated the prince and is dragged into
court to be berated or punished, don't treat it like a joke .
Remember that Kindred law is strict, most crimes are punishable
by Final Death, and the prince is head honcho in a city full of
unliving superpowered killers for a reason . More to the point,
there's no reason for the prince to care if an annoying ghoul lives
or dies . Playing a ghoul flippantly can lead to character death
.
Just because you're playing a ghoul instead of a vampire
doesn't mean the game is any less serious . Playing a ghoul is a
license to step outside the strict rules of vampiric society, but
don't abuse the opportunity . Invest your ghoul character some
common sense, and don't feel that he's less valuable to the game
.
than a vampire character is.
∎
∎


Storyteller Tips
be helpful. Sometimes a Storyteller can offer suggestions based on the
chronicle's needs, or a friend can play sounding hoard . If playing a ghoul
sounds interesting, go to town. A player who normally creates brutes might
find a cowardly Servitor fun, too . Those who typically play intellectual types
might relish the opportunity to kick butt as part of a squad of Brujah ghoul
roadies .
Introducing ghoul characters might sound good, but how do these sorry
creatures fit ino a Mind's Eye Theatre game? Actually, they fit in pretty
easily . Ghouls are great characters for all roleplayers, regardless of whether
physical action or intrigue is important . Hunters, spies, bodyguards and
chancellors - all of these roles and more can be filled by ghoul characters .
Whether a ghoul slips ino a vampire's haven for a little early morning spying,
whispers plans ino his Regnant's ear, or uses Potence o teach some manners
to a snot-nosed neonate, he can be a force to be reckoned with .
Ghouls add depth o a game . They bring life o characters who, until now,
were dismissed as two-dimensional henchmen . Elder vampires often have
several ghouls who are never seen or played out, and all of these ghouls'
actions ("I have my Servitors arrange the firebombing of that arrogant
Tremere's house .") take place offstage, as exposition instead of action- With
these rules, those faceless ghouls become flesh-and-blood characters, and
have their own agendas (and allow important events like firebombing the
Tremere to take place during gameplay) .


However, it's important that ghoul characters aren't completely depen-
dent on their Regnants . They should be able to partake of an evening's
festivities even if their Regnants don't show up . If Michael plays Renee's
Regnant, and Michael has to miss the game, Renee is put in an awkward
position if she is dependent on their characters' interactions . However, if
Renee's character is wrapped up in plots that don't involve her Regnant, she
still has plenty o do while Michael misses all the fun .
Introducing ghouls who have player Regnants can he a challenge and a
great responsibility for whomever plays the Regnant . This parental role is
recommended for responsible roleplayers . That doesn't mean the Regnant is
boring to play . The role simply demands maturity .
Storytellers might even want to encourage players to assume ghoul
characters to help fill out their cities . After all, anyone can play a ghoul . Some
might relish the challenge . Others might need convincing . Prod the reluctant
along by suggesting that they create ghouls along the lines of the vampire
characters they would have played. After all, they might get Embraced - if
they're good .
Another technique you can use with ghouls is daylight play . This is one
of the ghoul's greatest advantages . This is good for players who can't make an
evening of it but who would still like to play . Players can be ghouls in the
afternoon and Regnants in the evening . This sort of double casting takes a bit
of planning, but is worth it .


Story Ideas
Ghouls can be used as plot hooks in sorylines, drawing in vampires who
have something to do with them, and even drawing in those who have
nothing to do with them.
Hunters Hunted
Hunter ghouls have set up housekeeping in the city, seeking to stockpile
blood and perhaps liberate a few brethren at the same time . To assist the used
and abused, they gather vast amounts of information as payment from suitably
grateful ghouls . This includes Influences, names of vampires' allies and
enemies, access routes to havens, and details about vampires themselves
.
Such information can be used in a number of ways, from embarrassing abusive
Regnants to sparking full-scale wars between vampires .
Hunters perform hostile takeovers of cities with nothing less than their
lives at stake. Extensive sieges of metropolitan areas are time-consuming and
dangerous, and the longer one of these operations takes the more the tide
turns in favor of the truly immortal . Still, if everything falls just right, a cadre
of Hunter ghouls can cut a swath of terror through a city's vampiric
population before moving on to the next target
.
When portrayed effectively, Hunters can throw vampires into full-scale
panic. The thought of a Hunter prowling the streets in search of vampire
blood may seem silly at first . The first kill ends the laughter, though, and sends


L
82
i
i
i
i
i
i iUer
f i3 GoIlle3
security bills skyrocketing . Even the most recalcitrant Brujah suddenly finds
new appreciation . for the Masquerade, which should be top priority anyway .
If the Masquerade is broken frequently in your game, Hunters can be used to
discourage vampires' antics .
Tales From the Crypt
Revenants are recommended for a different kind of horror . They can be
introduced in a number of ways . The dilapidated old mansion that a
Malkavian moves into already has residents : the Bratoviches . A Zantosa
brings a date (a vampire's loved one or a favorite ghoul) home for dinner, and
guess what's on the menu? The Tremere find they have competition in
searching for a grimoire ; the Obertuses are looking for the same book . A
Ventrue prince learns that one of his trusted ghouls is actually a Grimaldi
infiltrator, but which ghoul is it? And if there are revenants around, can the
Sabbat be far behind?
Storyteller Note
Revenants bring plenty of disturbing qualities to your
game, but a surfeit of weirdness can leave players numb . Be
careful how you introduce such elements ; give players time to
absorb before showing them greater horrors . Too much strange-
ness at one time might leave them saying, "A horse with its
stomach ripped out left on the mayor's front lawn? How
gauche!" If you want to inject the occasional random act of
violence (particularly in the case of revenants), add some kind
of implied thought process to the scene . Dead people and
animals are scary, but the line into terror is crossed when all of
their organs are neatly laid out next to the butchered bodies .
Suddenly the violence is no longer random ; whoever commit-
ted the heinous act had a specific motive-a frightfully warped
one .
Try to avoid the overused clichés of horror, such as penta-
grams and the like. Familiarity breeds boredom . Always take
plenty of time and use lots of detail to describe a setting or event
that involves revenants . They are meant to be alien, and
shouldn't be taken lightly .


i
i
i
i
i
You Rang?
Servitors, though basically the least troublesome of ghouls, are not
usually prepared for the eternity that stretches out before them . More than
one has been known o go insane from the crushing weight of years and the
agony of the Embrace denied . Although this is possible with any ghoul, these
unfortunates are very often attached to vampires of high standing, have the
most responsibilities in a given household, and have free rein over a Regnant's
Influences . Needless to say, these ghouls can cause a lot of trouble when they
go rogue . Such ghouls are put down eventually, but hopefully with a measure
of dignity, respect or sorrow .
Mood for this type of story can be anything from manic o somber . The
poor ghoul was once perfectly normal and sane, perhaps even happy with her
life. Encourage the Regnant o create memories of happier times, or other
players to recall memories of interacting with the ghoul during her lucid days
.
Such recollections can only intensify the frustration and heartbreak of the
situation, making the inevitable that much more painful .
Obsessive Servitors can spice up a game considerably . Ghouls who are
driven by the false love of the Bond can become jealous of their household
fellows or even other vampires . Nothing is as messy as an all-out war between
ghouls, with their Regnant as the prize . Nothing is as dangerous as an obsessed
Thrall who stalks his Regnant's companions
.


 l / l l l
I I
∎ ∎
Kindred Opinions of Ghouls
84
We often despise what is most useful to us
.
- Aesop, The Hart and the Hunter
if
Everybody has an opinion on ghouls . Whether they hate them or love
them, few vampires are truly neutral when it comes to these quasi-immortals .
Members of the Camarilla view them as both a threat and a vital resource,
inevitably falling back on the old cliché : "Can't live with them, can't live
without them-" Sabbat vampires take a dim view of ghouls. The unaligned
clans have their own agendas for them .
Camarilla Opinions About Ghouls
Brujah
Old and wise Brujah make wide use of ghouls . Brujah prefer ghouls who
are intelligent or reflexive rebels, and don't often plan beyond the act of
ghouling itself. They may also ghoul human members of their gangs, but with
the understanding that these people have proved themselves capable of
running with the pack . Such people are also candidates for the Embrace
.
Sometimes Brujah make ghouls out of sheer laziness . The vampires
become tired of continually veiling their words or speaking in double
entendre, and ghoul their human companions to allow themselves to talk
more freely .
'
Gangrel
Gangrel think ghouls have as much right to true immortality as vampires
do, occasionally more so . Ghouls are the responsibility of the Regnants who
create them, since ghouls are practically childer . Gangrel don't create ghouls
very often, preferring to take responsibility only for themselves ; one, with a
number of ghouls in tow are usually active in city politics . Gangrel are most
likely to make ghoul animals; their command of Animalism ensures a tight
Bond with their beloved pets .
Malkavians
Malkavians have no formal uses for ghouls, but prefer their helpers to be
somewhat off-balance . If a Kook's ghoul of choice is not slightly insane at first,
the Malkavian rectifies that as quickly as possible . Malkavians seem to like
ghouls but don't keep many of them, finding them a bother to keep track of
.
When a Malkavian does take a ghoul, he uses the resource to the fullest . Crazy
doesn't mean inefficient .


A Malkavian's Derangement is the key factor in how he treats his "toys ."
Those ghouls unfortunate enough to he chosen by extremely unstable
vampires often have short life spans .
Nosferatu
These vampires have a hard time keeping ghouls until they are Blood
Bound, and make use of Mask of 1000 Faces until they are. Most mortals just
can't get past appearances.
Nosferatu don't need human ghouls as much as the other clans do, but
they use the ones they have extensively (there are secrets that not even the
Nosferatu can learn without the aid of normal-looking pawns) . Animal
ghouls are often created as bodyguards, haven defenders and messengers
.
They are also less likely to judge their masters by appearances .
The notorious Nosferatu spawning pools embody the heights of animal
ghoul making. Within these burbling cauldrons of foulness, sewer creatures
batten on Nosferatu blood and mutate into the most efficient home security
systems imaginable . Few intruding vampires, no matter how thoroughly they
may think they have done their research, are prepared for the monstrosities
that a spawning pool can vomit forth .
Nosferatu prize a certain profile among their human ghouls : detail-
oriented people who have inquisitive minds and aggressive attitudes .
Toreador
Toreador are infamous for picking ghouls for aesthetic as opposed to
strategic reasons - living artwork to keep around the haven . Looks aren't
everything, though, even for the Toreador . Poseurs seeking secretaries,
chauffeurs or any sort of "help" deliberately choose those who look plain or
dowdy, but who can get the job done. Servants should not outshine their
masters, after all . Artistes are more likely to need housekeepers or assistants
who can keep havens from falling apart, and who won't touch the works in
progress in the basement .
,~
Toreador as masters are a very mixed bag . Some disdain their ghouls as
mere hired help . Others are protective employers. A few are imperiously
cruel. They do, however, speak quite highly (even if it is with a surfeit of snide
comments) of the joys of having Blood Bound ghouls to take care of things .
For the most part this entails all the worldly duties normally taken care of in
daylight hours (legalities, hills, banking, paying off parking tickets) that
Toreador don't like to be bothered with .
Tremere
When they can get them, old-fashioned Tremere prefer illiterate ghouls
who are incapable of reading their precious grimoires . However, illiterates
who are competent at the tasks set them aren't easy to find .
85


∎ 
∎
Some Tremere select promising occult students
g
o
(espe-
cially work involving new Internet search vehicles and computerized library
catalogs). They Blood Bond these agents as quickly as possible and liberally
employ Dominate to ensure their loyalty . All Tremere who wish to create
ghouls must have the permission of the local Regent, and must provide full
dossiers on their would-be victims . Ghouls who are created without either are
not tolerated . The offending Tremere is punished, and the unfortunate
ghouls are executed .
Ventrue
Of all Camarilla vampires, the Ventrue are the most fond of ghouls . Some
have 10 or more at any given time. Ventrue choose their servants based on
what they need o control . How well a potential ghoul takes orders is
important as well . Some Ventrue jokingly compare the process of choosing
a ghoul to that of an employer picking among job applicants . Ventrue tend
to treat their ghouls very well, but arc careful not to let them grow too close
.
Ghouls are employees in Ventrue eyes, which goes a long way in preventing
obsessive Regnant-Thrall relationships . Ventrue do, however, give more
respect (and other rewards) to the highest achievers in their ghoulish broods,
which can lead to fierce competition between ghouls . This competition has
been known o turn deadly .
Sabbat Opinions on Ghouls
Sabbat vampires believe that ghouls are a waste of vitae and are good for
nothing, not even cannon fodder . Ironically, few Sabbat strategists have
seized upon the deep-seated discontent among Camarilla ghouls as a tactical
advantage to be exploited . Sabbat hatred for Camarilla Kindred and for
ghouls in general seems to blind the vampires to the usefulness of ghouls as
weapons .
Those few ghouls within the Sabbat who arc not part of the revenant
lilies walk dangerously thin lines . A Sabbat ghoul can be destroyed for the
most minor of infractions by any sect member, and the ghoul's "owner" isn't
likely to argue .
Revenants themselves are barely tolerated . Only the political and
spiritual weight of Clan Tzimisce shier them from total annihilation. The
sect has already purged four of the revcnant families, and many believe that
a second purge is coming
.
Antitribu keep ghouls, but consider disposable when the agents'
errands are completed .


Lasombra despise ghouls . If their Tzimisce allies did not support the little
annoyances so emphatically, the entire subspecies would have been culled
from the sect long ago . Lasombra ghouls are few and far between, and are kept
mainly for two reasons : financial or political expertise, or skill at personal
grooming. The former is self-explanatory ; the Lasombra aren't fools and
won't discard useful tools . The latter is explicable in light of the clan
weakness . These ghouls serve as surrogate mirrors for their Regnants-
Tzimisce
The Fiends have more uses for ghouls than they can shape fingers to
count them on . Of course, most Tzimisce ghouls aren't the happiest of
servants, as their masters disfigure them until interaction with the mortal
world becomes impossible. Tzimisce have even developed new varieties of
ghouls, into which they installed specific emotions and personalities .
Szlachta are kept as guardians . They are so worked over with Vicissitude
(bone carapaces, horns, callused skin) that they have lost all semblance of
humanity, both physically and mentally . A vast majority have also lost the
weakest grip on reality-
War ghouls, called vozhd, are the most rare of the Tzimisce creations .
They are composed of several ghouls who are grafted togother . Vozhd are most
often used as siege weapons . Ghouls melded into one of these abominations
lose their minds and Humanity in
of o
ne fel swop, and no one has found a way
o restore them .
Some creative Tzimisce craft ghouls into furniture or ornaments for their
havens . Still others have mastered the ab i lity of weaving the hapless creatures
into fashionable clothing (which, rumor has it, stays warm, even in the
winter) .
The revenant families were first created by the Tzimisce, and are
sometimes used, even in their debased modern state, to breed promising
candidates for future childer .


Neutral Clan Opinions on Ghouls
These vampires are more accepting outs than are the Sabbat, but
depend on them less than Camarilla vampires do . Members of the nonaligned
clans often have surprising uses for their ghouls, and even more surprising
ways of keeping them in line .
Assamites
All Assamites spend seven Years as ghouls before being Embraced into
the clan, so every Assamite has an intrinsic understanding of the ghoul's
station . This may not cause nn Assassin to spare a ghoul who gets in his way,
but at least he won't despise the ghoul for what he is .
The Assamites choose their ghouls with an eye on the future . An
Assassin's ghoul is not a servant . he is a potential Assamite whose worth is
assessed throughout his half-human apprenticeship . Assume r ghouls are held
to the same high standards as their masters are, specifically in regard to honor,
truthfulness and dignity. Nun-Semitic men (not o mention women) have
only recently been selected as ghouls by members of this clan.
Caitiff
The clanless vampires keep ghouls as a survival mechanism . Ghouls
provide backup whenever something Pig comes down . When intent on
making ghouls, Caitiff seek out people like themselves
: outcasts, misfits, the
homeless and anyone else who might prove useful . These ghouls are usually
drawn from the pools of mortals that the other clans have already surveyed,
so the pickings get pretty slim. Beggars can't be choosers .
Giovanni
Giovanni ghoul those promising individuals who are not in the family,
but whose expertise they wish to use_ Power brokers, scholars, morticians,
financiers these arc a l l good candidates for heing "adopted" into the family
.
Members of the family- who, for whatever reason, are not chosen for the
Embrace may be sustained as ghouls for years
.
The Necromancers have as many ghouls as the Ventrue do and utilize
them in similar ways, but also use a few unfortunates as subjects in their
studies. Any mortal who makes headway in the mysteries of the afterlife or
who shows talent in spirit communication should expect an offer she can't
refuse .


Ravnos
The average Ravnos values freedom so highly that enslaving ghouls is
almost anathema . However, Ravnos create ghouls on rare occasions, and
most of these are mortals with the mysterious Numina powers . A Ravnos
typically chooses a mortal of Gypsy Mood, specifically selecting a Rom who
displays talents in the vaurpire's lost Numina . When a Ravnos drinks the
blood of ghouls whose talents echo what his once were, he regains his powers
briefly . (The only blood that c ~ i n spark such a restoration of power comes from
ghouls who possesses the same gift that the vampire had .)
Apart from this sort of special case, Ravnos shun the creation of ghouls,
unless they can avoid Bonding theta . Ghouls who do become attached to
Ravnos should be wary of their masters' activities, lest a heist gone wrong
leave them holding the bag before a very annoyed prince .
Setites
When a Setite wants a ghoul, she get ., a Ghoul, even if it's one already
Bound to someone else . The Serpent have incredibly addictive blood and
make good use of it, poaching ghouls from other vampires with ease . The
Setite gives a taste of his blood to ghouls already Bound o other vampires
.
The original Regnants have no idea that their ghouls have been cotnpro-
mised, or that Setites are monitoring their activities through spies . Setites
rarely keep human ghouls in their temples or havens, but do have a predilec-
tion for ghouling poisonous snakes . C1 I ras are particular favorites, though
they are difficult to come by .
Anarchs
Anarchs keep ghouls much like Caitiff do, choosing their Thralls from
roadies and loyal toughs . Anarch ghouls are often picked for their prowess at
moving things quickly, by day or night. Nothing is more valuable to these
vampires than the ability to get out town after the inevitable Blood Hunt has
been called. There are times when waiting for nightfall to move would prove
fatal .


AUNTIE CSILLA'S ADVICE
FOR THE BLOODLORN
Dear Csilla,
I've been
a reader for years,
ever since I was made
a
ghoul .
I was wondering if you have any advice for a Bound
ghoul whose Regnant is mistreating him horribly?
Signed,
Miserable and Loving It
Dear Miserable,
We all know how grumpy Kindred can get, but its not an excuse
to beat on an innocent ghoul . There are Regnants out there who
think they have nothing better to do than take out theiraggressions
on their Thralls . Some of them even do it for fun!
Sick of it? Sick of her pals kicking you around? Mispronouncing
your name? Feeding on you without permission? Well, I'll tell you
what, honey, there are ways of getting back at those jerks. And I'm
going to lay out how. . . .
But before I start, don't even think about saying "But mine's not
like that. " Uh-huh . If she weren't like that, you wouldn't be reading
this column, dearie. If you get offended and put this down now,
you're not a ghoul -you're a vampire in a warm suit .
Okay, it goes like this, kiddies: I you think revenge is a dish best
served cold, huh-unh - it can be served hot. (Or you can make them
think that, but that's my best and easiest one, and I should save it
for last.)
Let me give you a little example I cooked up for my friend
Armand. His kind, loving, generous Regnant decided to try him out
as a bulletproof vent. In case you were wondering, it didn't go
terribly well . He nearly died, with six neat little puncture wounds in
him .
At any rate, my friend the pincushion hired me to get back at his
Regnant, and this is the trifle I came up with to make her regret
treating him that way . I call it Machka'a Little Ditty . Don't ask about


the name; I don't want to get Machka in trouble. She's working on
her third Regnant now - the first two never knew what hit them .
Anyway, we're getting off topic. First, you need a sponge and a
bit of paraffin wax. Water down the sponge, then squeeze it tight .
You probably have Potence, so go to town. While the sponge is as
scrunched up as you can make it, dip it into the wax and then freeze
the little blob .
Then things get tricky . To use the Little Ditty, you need to get into
your target's haven. This is no problem if you're doing it for one of
the resident ghouls or for yourself, but if you're poaching a Regnant,
watch out. Hopefully you know where your target's sleeping and
what defenses she employs . If her ghouls are on your side, they
won't be a problem.
On the way over to the mark, make sure you pick the wax off the
sponge . Keep the bundle of joy in your hand so that it warms up a
bit. When the time comes, you'll need it moderately well thawed
.
Okay, now for the really dangerous part . You have a 5o-5o
chance of getting caught at thin point, so be ready to run with
Celerity at pull tilt. As carefully as you can, togs the sponge down
your target's gullet. If you can get it past the little dangly things at
the back of her throat, you're in business .
Now comes the most important part - run. If you aren't fast,
you're going to die. Hopefully you planned an escape route, prefer-
ably one that leads past bright, sunny windows. If the bloodsucker
is in a high-rise, head for a corner stairwell and slide down the
banister.
What is the result of this endeavor, besides leaving untidy wax
droppings for anyone with Psychometry to discover? What can you
possibly hope to accomplish? It's really sweet. The sponge thaw's in
the vampire's throat, where it expands and is irretrievable . In and
of itself, that's just annoying. The funny part comes in when she
tries to feed . Blood gets soaked up by the sponge so it can't nourish
her, yet she can taste it back there . It's so tantalizing it hurts .
Once the blood congeals, thin go get really bothersome . What
with this hard scratchy thing in her throat, your Regnant is going to
break down or get help and rip it out the hard way .
Ever seen a vampire tear out her own throat? It's a treat .


Dear Csilla,
You've obviously been doing this for decades . What was
the first trick you ever pulled, and which ones are your
favorites?
Curious in Houston
Dear Curious,
I came up with my first trick with a Ravnos ghoul who I met at a truck stop
on the way to Phoenix. She was fun, but her Regnant was too protective and bored
me .
To be honest, it wasn't much of a prank. Ijust opened her coffin and nailed
her feet to the bottom, then got in the car and drove like hell.
Of course, I've gotten much better since then . 1f you're about to change
employment and don't really wish your old Regnant harm, use epoxy and stick
something amusing to her fangs. Rabbit teeth work
well,
and have a high
amusement value. Since vampires don't drool, this operation is surprisingly easy .
There are others that I'm fond of. A good one involves burning something in
the haven. When your Regnant finally gets around to inhaling, he gets a lungful
of soot and a faceful of panic .
I know childish ghouls who've thrown out all of their Regnants' clothes and
then vamoosed, but that lacks flair. Naked or not, an angry vampire can still kill
you. On the other hand, anything that can force a vampire to appear in court
before sunset is good. The bloodsuckers usually get out of it, but it's fun to see
them sweat blood when that summons for io :oo A.M. arrives in the mail.
Dear Csilla,
My
Regnant is a Ventrue, but he's not very good at
business . He keeps losing business deals, and when he
screws up he takes it out on me . I'm sure that if I worked
harder he'd be more successful, but it's so hard with him
abusing me the way he does . What should I do?
Your faithful reader,
Hopeless in Seattle


Dear Hopeless,
you're being too hard on yourself . Sounds to me like your Regnant is going
to be some Lasombra's snack before long . You'd be doing yourself a favor if you
moved on before it happened .
If you're really mad, stake the bastard and yank his fangs . you'll have no
choice but to leave him- If you don't I think you'll end up dead sooner or later,
anyway . Get going. Leave him to his fate . You have nothing to do with his
screwups .
Dear
Csilla,
I
need
something
really
special
for
my Regnant .
He
forgot
the
anniversary
of
my
ghouling,
and
I'm kind
of
upset .
I don't want
to hurt him,
I just want
to make
him
apologize .
Any
suggestions?
Anxiously
awaiting guidance,
Halfway Jilted
Dear Half,
you don't mind it I call you Half, do you? In any case, my best trick has got
to be the Suntan/Sunburn routine . It's quick and easy . All you need is a beautiful
summer day, some suntan lotion for yourself and a sunburn mask for the vamp
in question. Go out and get yourself a nice dark tan . Don't worry if you burn a bit ;
that gives the prank the extra touch of verisimilitude that it needs . Come home
be fore dusk and apply the sunburn mask to your mark . When you're finished, his
pretty little immortal face will appear nice and burned . When he wakes up and
sees himself in the mirror (unless he's a Keeper, but in that case you have bigger
problems), he'll be at a loss for how he caught some rays . Did you take him to the
park?
Of course, if he has no sense of humor, you're in trouble . In that case, my
circulation drops by one. That's why I demand prepaid subscriptions, kiddies
.
That's it for this week. I'm sorry I can't relate much more, but I have my
Regnant's signii cant other to tar and feather . I might just cut off some of his hair
while he sleeps and give it to a local Tremere . After all, it'll grow back before he
comes to in the evening, and he'll never notice its gone until the moment the first
pin goes into the voodoo doll. Send those cards and letters with suggestions!
Take care, and remember: The only good Regnant is a humble Regnant .
CSILLA


94
Relations with the World of Darkness
Vampires are not the only creatures that a ghoul has to worry about .
There are Lupines, mages and other Awakened beings who might not be
friendly o a vampire in training . Not many supernatural beings have dealings
with ghouls, unless contending with a Thrall's Regnant . Yet there's always
that first time, and a ghoul should be prepared . Ghouls have also been known
to cultivate secret relationships with Lupines friends whom they knew before
tasting vampire blood . Ghouls have also been haunted by the wraiths of those
they've killed in their Regnants' names .
Lupines
Few ghouls look forward to coming face to face with werewolves
.
Ironically, Lupines are the Awakened creatures that ghouls have o deal with
most often . Ghouls usually radiate some Wyrm-taint o Lupines, and are
considered to be little better than the Leeches they serve . Every so often an
enterprising vampire experiments with making Lupine Kinfolk into ghouls
.
It usually backfires - badly . The victims' extended families attempt to slay
the new ghouls as acts of mercy . Kinfolk ghouls who hope to survive better
run far from their people .
Very few Lupines are made into ghouls . Most werewolves have violent
allergic reactions to the Wyrm-taint in vampiric blood (assuming one sits still
long enough to have some forced down her throat), and expel it immediately
.


Perhaps one Lupines in a hundred can be ghouled, and these are regarded as
one step short of Abominations .
Ghouls usually avoid werewolves whenever they can . As Awakened
creatures, ghouls are not subject to the Delirium, and can see nine-foot-tall
furry engines of destruction coming in plenty of time to get the hell out of the
way. Some ghouls do cut deals with Lupines, but such exchanges are fraught
with peril for both sides.
The Changing Breeds
Lupines aren't the only shapeshifters in the world, although they are the
most numerous . Most of the other Changing Breeds have even less tolerance
for ghouls than werewolves do . Mokolé, in particular, have nothing but
contempt for ghouls, though this perception is perhaps skewed due to the sort
of ghouls who go tromping around Mokolé lairs . Most of those unlucky
Servitors are in the company of land developers who have their eye on a
region. It's not surprising that the Mokolé have come to despise them .
Perhaps the most benevolent attitude toward ghouls is that held by the
Nuwisha, who see them as means to get vampires' goats . A Nuwisha typically
uses a ghoul to humiliate her Regnant, as opposed to killing the vampire
outright .
Mages
Mages don't have many dealings with ghouls unless the Tremere are
involved. Tremere often try to capture mages for study, sometimes turning
them into ghouls in an attempt o extend their shelf lives . While this has the


benefit of Bonding a ghouled mage so that he won't try anything tricky with
Correspondence and sunlight inside the haven, the process can imperil a
mage's Avatar and hence his ability to work magick . Ghouled mages who can
no longer work wonders are generally pumped for information and then
discarded .
Consors and ghouls in the same city often establish a sub rosa network,
trading information and favors o make their respective masters happy . This
underground servant connection can be a formidable force, and its members
look after their own .
Wraiths
Ghouls have definite problems with wraiths. As ghouls are often called
upon to commit dirty deeds for their vampiric masters, they can rack up sizable
body counts. Furthermore, vampires tend to acquire large ghostly entourages .
If a ghoul can become friendly with a wraith, the ghost can he a valuable
source of information . However, most wraiths are unfriendly and inclined to
cause ghouls trouble .
Risen
Risen are ghosts who have climbed hack into their bodies to finish
business on Earth . To come hack, wraiths have to make deals with their
Shadows . As part of a deal, a Risen might have to kill anyone it encounters,
ghouls included. Risen also possess the ghostly ability Lifesight, so ghouls
can't hide from them . Risen with less destructive Passions sometimes benefit
from relations with ghouls, but these alliances are fragile and short-lived
.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I


I
 
~11~~1f P01~1)~il1)1H
i
i
Risen can pass for vampires, and some seek out ghouls to help authenti-
cate their disguises. An urban legend holds that an abused ghoul took
advantage of her friendship with a Risen to convince her Regnant to
straighten up and fly right. More likely, a ghoul would use a Risen friend to
escape an intolerable Bond .
i
i
i
i
Changelings
Changelings generally avoid creatures as banal as the average vampire,
but have an easier time with ghouls . It has been theorized that supernatural
revelations make ghoul minds more flexible and capable of accepting oddities
like the fae . Yet even childlings know that the apple doesn't fall far from the
tree, and don't trust ghouls . A lucky ghoul may be able to cultivate a
friendship with a fae, but the changeling is probably Unseelie and possesses
an unhealthy curiosity about vampires. Seelie fae usually avoid ghouls
entirely . Still, some look on these half-humans with pity .


I
I
I
I
I
I fi
~~
1
ber JGUi1 es
You treat me like a dog,
Give me a bone to chew,
Frothing at the mouth,
Frothing all over you
- The Damned, "Rabid"


Let's say you're a bright young vampire, but
not a particularly wealthy one . You want a loyal
ghoul, but without all the emotional baggage
(and bills) that a mortal can bring. You don't
want to hear all the insipid questions . You want
to be able to say, "Frog[" and have your ghouls
hop without asking, "How high?" Don't get
yourself a human; find an animal that suits your
needs .
Personally, my favorite species for ghouling
is the dog . Borzoi, in particular, work well . They
aren't as bright as other canines, but they are the
most loyal and, without a doubt, the most
capable hunters that you could ask for . But l
shouldn't bore you by telling you how wonderful
my puppies are when your needs might be met
by other species .
A companion of mine, one with an impressive
command of Auspex, keeps birds of all sorts for


a wide variety of duties . While most adept at
spying, birds are also excellent "silent alarms"
and messengers for delivering warnings that
most people can never trace . They are also
fearsome defenders . You laugh at the thought of
a "killer attack parrot," but a beak in the eye is
nothing to sneer at . Multiply that by a flock of 20
and you begin to understand what my dear
friend Niccolo sees in his little canaries .
Of course, Animalism is a prerequisite if you
want to keep animals of any kind under your
control . Vampires who seek to create animal
ghouls without this Discipline find themselves in
the same positions as the parents of teenagers
:
they have no way to communicate . Further-
more, vampire blood can make an animal very
aggressive. The Beast in the blood seems to
throw domestics back to nature, as it were, and
even the most affectionate of pets become
somewhat atavistic when they get a taste of
vitae .
Most find the domestic canine best suited to
life as a ghoul, but wolves are another story .
Wolves are so . .
. primal . . . that to attempt to
enslave them with the Blood Bond courts disas-
ter if you don't do it right . You have to consider


their habits, the ways they challenge for rights of
leadership - their whole societal structure .
Domestic dogs, on the other hand, while they do
revert to a more natural state, have human
concepts ingrained into their skulls . This makes
them open to life with, and dependent upon, a
true master. You become pack leader, the alpha .
No matter what type of animal you ghoul, you
have to deal with its degree of domestication .
Some culture is better than none . Otherwise the
poor beast may never develop any kind of
intelligence . For example, my eldest dog Doran
is capable of reasoning, and the occasional bit of
deductive logic . Though he's not terribly good
at it yet, he can still make better decisions than
just about any animal on Earth (at least, any
animal that's been around for fewer than five
centuries) . Mind you, Doran isn't much brighter
than a six year old, but he's improving . A few
more decades, and he'll be brighter than my
Congressman .
I find that most ghoul animals get brighter,
but it is a slow process . Borzoi are not the
clearest thinkers, nor are Dobermans or grey-
hounds . Their thought processes can take
centuries to improve. On the other hand, while


primates have intellects that mature rapidly, they
are almost uncontrollable when ghouled . It has
something to do with the way the Beast warps
them, I think . I won't give my blood to a monkey
(marmoset, gibbon or any other primate, for
that matter) again after the last experiment l
conducted . The property damage was in the tens
of thousands of dollars, not to mention the
injuries inflicted on my person .
Useful animals include the ferret, which is
excellent for thievery because it can get into air
ducts and other tight spaces . Horses are less
useful than they used to be (we have cars now,
and mounted combat is passé), but as far as I'm
concerned, they still rank ahead of felines
.
Damned cats never do anything, and they expect
you to feed them whenever they want, which is
usually at the least convenient times . Rodents
work well for information gathering; no build-
ing is rat-proof. (If you want to extend the
principle and give your blood to cockroaches,
you're not likely to get much useful information
back. Insects are simply unintelligible, and
ghouling them is a waste of blood .) Goats are still
popular with one clan . The Ravnos insist on
their utility, but I have no idea what they're
talking about. Nosferatu are fond of giving


blood to alligators for obvious reasons. How-
ever, keeping alligators requires sewer access or
a suitable pond, and a lot of spare corpses
. It's
not like you can stick one in the bathtub and
hope it will stay .
Of course, your choice of ghoul species is
dependent on your whereabouts and clan affili-
ation. A Nosferatu has more use for an alligator
than she does a goat (unless she's hungry) . A
Ravnos might find a gator on a leash to be
awkward . Consider your situation, then figure
out what sort of creature works best for you .
And if you're still skeptical about the whole
notion, remember this: An animal ghoul never
asks for a raise .
Stella di Riganoni
Proprietress,
The Pet Seminary


 
I
 
1_iber ties G0
Tee I
Rules for Creating Animal
Ghouls
Animal ghouls are highly regarded in vampire society, often more so than
human ones . This is due in equal parts to their unquestioning loyalty and their
inability to complain. While animals do have certain drawbacks (it's hard to
get one to change a zoning ordinance), they are unsurpassed in their skills as
sentries, spies and personal guards . However, animals aren't as intelligent as
humans ; players should not choose animal ghouls as characters .
Animal ghouls can be used for protection in a haven, and as agents for
gathering intelligence. However, keep in mind that ghouled animals can be
easy to recognize . Most vampires will become suspicious of oddly curious
animals that hang around too much . With that in mind, be prepared to lose
an animal that your character brings to an evening's event
.
Logistics
To simulate an animal ghoul at your side, make up a card that lists the
animal's Traits and wear the card prominently when the creature is with you
.
Stuffed animals can be used to represent small ghouls (although a teddy bear
may cause you to be mistaken for a Malkavian) . Even these should have stars
pinned to them to indicate their status as ghouls, not toys .
If you send your ghoul on a mission, inform a Narrator of the action and
hand her your ghoul's card . She can assess the difficulty of the task, decide
what tests your ghoul has to pass, and determine what tests others have to
make to impede your ghoul's progress . The card should he returned to you
when the mission is completed, unless the ghoul doesn't come back .
For example, Bertram sends his ghouled pigeon off to spy on his rival,
Ernest, So Bertram's player talks to a Narrator . He explains what he wants the
pigeon to do, then hands the Narrator the ghoul's card . The Narrator finds
Ernest's player and asks him to make a Static Mental Challenge . He succeeds,
so the Narrator rules that Ernest notices the pigeon . Ernest knows the pigeon
is Bertram's, but isn't worried about it and does nothing . The next time the
Narrator sees Bertram's player, he returns the card and provides rudimentary
information on what the pigeon saw .
Narrators shouldn't drop everything to run ghoul missions - animals
aren't likely to take the shortest route between two points, and may not do
things in a hurry .
104
1


Common Sense
A note to players : Do not bring your pets to an event, even
if your character has a ghouled pack of combat-trained Great
Dane-schnauzer crossbreeds . It's too dangerous for the players
and your pet . And no, we're not even going to mention the
problems that a lack of facilities might create .
Animal Ghoul: (3-5 Trait Merit)
This Merit may he purchased after gameplay begins (hut the ghouling of
the animal must be roleplayed ) . The would-be Regnant must possess interme-
diate Animalism . Otherwise the ghouled animal won't follow commands and
will go rogue.
A 3-Trait ghoul would he a hat, cat, small bird or rodent . A 5-Trait ghoul
would be a large dog (German shepherd, Irish wolfhound) or one of the bigger
cats (leopard, cougar). Vampires who attempt to ghoul exotic species also
have to deal with the associated baggage : the care and feeding of large
predators in between doses of blood, providing enough space for the animals,
permits, and protests from animal-rights activists . There's more to ghouling
a leopard, feeding it the occasional Blood Trait and announcing a fait
accompli .
Creation
A ghoul should he created according to the rules presented here, and
based on the animal Trait descriptions on page 158 of The Masquerade
:
Second Edition. The player adds a number of Traits to the animal's descrip-
tion equal to his character's rating in the Merit : Animal Ghoul, minus one .
These Traits should he reasonable ; gerbils with Brawny x 3 are right out . Next,
the Storyteller selects one appropriate basic "physical" Discipline for the
ghoul (e .g., Potence) .
Every ghoul animal also has a Trait called Instincts . This Trait relates to
the animal's natural tendency to rebel against orders given to it . A wild
animal has a base Instincts Trait of 8, while a domesticated animal has an
Instincts Trait of 5 . Rather than take extra Traits for a ghoul, a player can buy
down its Instincts Trait at character creation by one level for each Trait
sacrificed . After ghoul creation, the experience cost is two points to reduce
one level of Instincts .
1 05


I
I
106
I
I
I
I
I
liber
[ us
DU es
∎
Instincts comes into play whenever a character attempts to command his
ghoul. A Static Social Challenge is performed against the Instincts Trait
.
Leadership or Animal Ken Abilities may be used to re-test this challenge
.
A ghouled animal immediately acquires the Negative Trait : Violent . Any
wild animal (use common sense ; wolves are wild, dogs aren't) also has the
Derangement : Crimson Rage .
Uses and Abuses
An animal ghoul maybe used in a variety of ways. A Gangrel with a wolf
ghoul might use it as an ally in combat . In this case, mob-scene rules come into
effect, and the wolf loans a Physical Trait to its master . A Toreador with a hat
for a ghoul might use it to spy on her rivals and watch over her while she sleeps ;
the Storyteller should arrange a Static Mental Challenge for the hat against
an opponent's defenses . The possibilities are endless. However, if a Storyteller
feels that these rules throw the game out of balance, she should limit or
eliminate the use of ghouled animals .
Example of Animal Ghouling
Dan's character, a Toreador Poseur named Octavius, has just attained the
intermediate level of Animalism . He decides to spend three experience points
and takes the Merit: Animal Ghoul . He settles on ghouling a vampire hat, after
talking it over with the Storyteller . Dan figures the bat will go nicely with
Octavius' Goth image . The Storyteller is amused by the possibilities and
potential logistic problems.
Dan and the Storyteller discuss the matter, and agree that acquisition
occurs through the use of Octavius' second level of basic Animalism, The
Beckoning. However, as Dan's chronicle is set in Kansas City and vampire bats
are creatures of the tropics, Dan's character has to spend an appropriate
Influence to get into the local zoo after closing, and gain access to the vampire
hat exhibit .
In the next session, the Storyteller and Dan meet again . The Storyteller
announces that Dan's attempt to acquire a hat as a ghoul is successful . Now
it's time to assign extra Traits .
Dan decides to give his hat the extra Trait Dexterous . He also decides to
buy down his bat's Instincts Trait to 7 . As the ghouled bat is only a 3-Trait
Merit, this takes care of the extra Traits that the hat can acquire .
Dan has no choice but to give the creature the Negative Trait : Violent .
Since this is a naturally wild animal, he also has to give it the Derangement :
Crimson Rage .
Now that creation is complete, Dan names his hat Evil and hands the
animal's rough character sheet over to the Storyteller . She decides that
Celerity is the best Discipline for a hat to have . A note is made of this, and
Evil's stats are transcribed onto a large card which Dan has to wear whenever
Evil accompanies Octavius .


i
i
i
i
i
i
Nimble
Violent
Crimson Rage
I ibtr acs 0001t
The -Pool of Ghouls
ell
.
Name
Evil the Bat 
Regnant Qctavius 
Instincts :
NNNNNNNaoo
Traits :
Quick x 3
Dexterous
Negative Traits :
Derangements :
Special Notes : Has the Discipline : Alacrity and must
avoid well-lit areas .
Animal Ghouls and Experience
A character may spend her own experience points to buy her animal
ghoul Disciplines, and to buy down the ghoul's Instincts Trait . She cannot
buy it Abilities, Influences, Attributes or the like except by special arrange-
ment with the Storyteller.
To buy an animal ghoul a Discipline, a character spends the amount of
experience that he would normally need to learn an out-of-clan Discipline .
This translates into four points for basic Disciplines and eight points for
intermediate . No animal ghoul may ever possess advanced Disciplines .
Buying down an animal ghoul's Instincts rating costs two points per
Instincts Trait .
10 7


I
1
1 08
I
I
I
I
I
Tlber c c
GOU es
IVcr fts @ouLt
Tile 100 0{ Gk0 l
Animal GL J
Name 
Regnant 
Instincts :
0000000000
Traits :
Negative Traits :
Derangements :
Special Notes : 


Laws of the Night
The pocket edition
of the rules for Masquerade .
Now Available


OBLIVION
a c t i o n f o r t h c d c a d
mids L;
ealrel


w
x,
V&,
'
,OA
x
1\11 , i5,006
