s 
TLHE ASCE NS I Q N 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. .-. i I 
a: 
*.,::t, 
: 1 
I 
Never one to miss the obvious, Florence perked up and said, “He’s here!” 
She fidgeted with nervous energy, first adjusting the goggles seated atop her 
I’ head, then toying with one of the many small tools on her work belt. David 
. simply waited. He seemed to be good at that. He exuded a simple confidence by 
remaining completely still and unruffled. 
- 
,,‘ I 
Passersby ignored the eclectic pair. Florence resembled nothing so much as 
. , 5.1 j { 1 a mechanic, carrying a set of tools and gadgets, but nobody ever questioned a 
easy auto mechanic who just happened to be loitering about during the lunch 
‘* ’ $! k u r .  David attracted even less attention. He was well groomed, and he lacked 
‘’ - . ’;I 
5 any unusual clothes or accoutrements. He wore a simple set of easily relaxed 
pants and a shirt that wouldn’t stend out anywhere in the world. Waiting at the 
, comer of the street near a pay phone, they appeared to be a couple of friends 
’ ’ i 9 waiting for an acquaintance before lunch. Nothing at all singled out the two 
Tieman arrived from around the corner, his long hair and long coat tails 
soft white shirt, wearing only a few subtle pieces of jewelry as a concession to the 
Celtic magic and heritage that he claimed. He stopped a couple of paces from 
wrinkled his nose at the odor ofcloves that still clung to Tiernan and said, “You 
With a smooth glance to Florence first, Tiernan tumed to David. “1 didn’t 
.,p*- 
2; 
J, 
come here to get lectured as soon as I arrived. And tobacco’s holy anyway. Ask 
*.:*; 
.; , any shaman.” Tiernan’s I-don’t-care-what-you-think attitude, rivaled David’s 
1 
_
L
 
) *  
, 
“All right, boys, let’s not get into a row before we even get started,” Florence 
’ . soothed. Her rolling accent cut through the tension. David stood down, and 
, ‘ * Florence could see that he’d been quite tightly wound despite his patience. He 
,AY.~V ,
.
~
~
~
~
~
,
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
r
~
~
~
,
.
~
~
 
~ ~ r , ~ ~ , , , l . ‘ , ~ ~ . ~ ~ . ~ , 7 ‘ - ~ r  
.t,y i ~ $ h * * ‘ - .  
I T, , .. ~ r i ; ” * ; ;  
. 
s-:b< 
8 , .  .*- 
as$ ‘_ ...:e 
% e b , d  ‘., . , * t  :, .,* .. . :* 
t’:; 
V .  
s 3‘. :! ’r !:l:c’*.. , :: .I, < 
r*“ 
(1 
.-, 
;!. 
” ?  
I 
- -. L 
: I L*;, 
. , a  . 
~ ‘1 
magicians from the rest of humanity. 
LI 
drifting behind him. As was his wont, he moved casually in black slacks and a 
David and Florence and crushed a slim, black cigarette under his boot. David 
really shouldn’t defile your body like that.” 
’ .  
. .  
-.- (1 */v 
”1 . 
1 
i’ **’-; 
i. command of patience. 
: i 
- C..? 
, ... ‘ I  
, - I .  
8
.
 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


exhaled, and his muscles softened like rivers turning tame after a series of rapids. 
Taking his cue from Florence, Tieman decided not to press the issue. Those 
Akashics have always had short tempers and a brutal left hook, he thought wryly. No 
sense pushing his buttons just yet. 
“What’s the agenda?” David asked Florence casually. 
“Well, like I said before, matters have gotten quite ... strange, re- 
cently. Dead rising from their graves. Ghostly lights in the church towers. 
Children spotting fey shapes among the trees of the park and weird email 
messages without senders cropping up all over the town’s computer provid- 
ers. You know, the usual supernatural activity. Just lots of it, all at once.” 
Tieman sneered but smoothed the expression over before the others 
noticed. “It’s nothing that any of us haven’t seen before. I’m not some wet- 
behind-the-ears Apprentice who’s awed by the sight of a faerie ring, you know. 
I’ve been doing this for-” 
“We know,” David cut him off quietly. “The better part of a millennium. 
After all, you bring it up all the time.” 
Tieman glowered for a moment then said, “Fine. So we have some of the 
usual unusual going on. So what?” 
Florence wagged her finger like a lecturing professor. “The fact that these 
things are happening all at once is what’s so odd. And of course the fact that 
levels of etheric power - pardon, Quintessential energy - have spiked 
noticeably almost everywhere in the city, combined with that odd woman you 
yourself spotted at that club you frequent.. . it’s a little too much to be simple. 
Something is going on.” 
“But the question is, what?” Tieman murmured. 
“AS always,” David interjected. “But we can at least think of possibilities.” 
“Such as?” 
David shrugged. “A planetary alignment. A probability storm. A release or 
cancellation of a long-term enchantment. A drop in Technocratic suppression. 
Sunspots. Any number of things.” 
Tieman re-appraised David, then nodded once. “All right. Any number of 
things. Your problem is twofold then. One, why should I care? And assuming I 
did, how would we know what to look for?” 
Florence spoke up this time. She fidgeted with her goggles again as she 
replied, “You should care because this impacts the supernatural world that you 
claim to be so in touch with. Remember, if children are seeing faeries in the trees, 
that’s something that most Verbena should find quite exciting.” 
Tiernan looked about ready to gag. “Because we’re Gaelic-lilting 
faerie friends?” he sneered. “Faeries aren’t all nice and pretty cartoon 
characters, Florence. They get as ugly as nature does. And if faeries are 
getting so close to children that children can see them, that doesn’t excite 
me at all. It’s disturbing.” 
“Of course,” David said smoothly. “All the more reason for us to get 
involved before these matters get out of control. As much as you may like 
having the supernatural at your beck and call, it’s too dangerous when it’s 
just loose in the world.” 
L 
1 
% 1, * *’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


“Besides, it’s a chance to learn something,” Florence added. “And, if you 
care, it’s a chance to show up some other mages out there. Getting things 
done attracts notice. We may not be in the Order of Hermes, and we may not 
have to worry about their cutthroat politics, but even you must concede that 
the more we know and the more we take matters into our hands, the more 
credibility we’ll gain with our fellows. You know what that means - 
more 
offers to swap information, more chances to get involved in policy, more 
chances to show up your rivals or just another good kick for your ego to say 
you’ve done something important. This is a fascinating opportunity any way 
you look at it.” 
Tieman mused at David’s rather blunt observation and Florence’s com- 
ments, then gave a short bark of laughter. “The stick and the carrot - 
good 
cop bad cop. I see why you two work together.” Florence and David glanced 
at one another, then David just shrugged again. “All right,” Tiernan said, 
“Let’s say I’m in.” 
“Good,” Florence chirped. “I figure we should check out these various 
manifestations around the city for true signs of paranormal activity. I can track 
them with my etheric sensors; I’m sure you both have your own methods.” 
David nodded once, and Tiernan produced a length of dark red cord from 
his coat pocket. “Oh yes,” Tieman said, twisting the cord between his fingers. 
“We have our ways. I’m sure I’ll stumble across something. Shall we meet back 
together here in, say, four hours?” 
6;= 
“Four hours,” David agreed. “Let’s get started.” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CREDITS 
Authors: Mike Boaz, Jess Heinig and Peter Woodworth 
Additional Material: Jedediah Walls, Wade Jones, Martin Hackleman 
Development: Jess Heinig 
Editing: Carl Bowen 
Art Direction: Aaron Voss 
Interior Art: Laura Robles 
Front and Back Cover Design: Pauline Benney 
Layout and Typesetting: Pauline Benney 
Playtesters: Charles Bailey, Bruce Baugh, Deird’re Brooks, Daron Gildaw, 
Heather Pritchett and the Camarilla Fan Club rules development team. 
SPECIAL 
THANKS 
TCB: 
Charles “Corrupter Wyrm” Bailey, for bringing the teeming masses to Atlanta. 
White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, 
Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, 
Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great 
War, Trinity, Laws of Ascension, Laws of the Night, Laws of the Wild, 
Oblivion and The Shining Host are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, 
Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are 
Check out White Wolf 
I 
t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


,: ,, ,
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
r
,
~
,
~
,
?
~
~
~
.
~
~
,
~
~
~
 
.. 
.?; K~*T~;,?!;.T~.- r , t , ~ w ~ . ,  
r q . m s c  T , * ? , W ~ L  i . . Y H ~ : T , ~ , ~ ~ ! ~  
-& 
LI.9'. * ** .. . - 
d 
- .: * !, *? -._. 
. .?.',t : 
.,..-.., 
3 ', 4"-..- 
L..>+ I * c .. . .?!.*.t-. 
WHAT 
IS ST~RYTELLING? 
We have been telling each other stories since the earliest days in which 
cavemen acted out the tales of their hunts around their fires. We painted cave 
walls, pressed reeds into soft clay tablets, inked papyrus and vellum, performed 
plays, illuminated manuscripts, printed books, filmed movies, scripted radio and , , ! 
television shows and programmed computers. Now, one of the newest methods 2 .  
of storytelling is actually a return to the oldest form. Live-action roleplaying 
(LARP), which grew out of the tabletop roleplaying games of the  OS, is just the 
kind of participatory tale telling that we can still recognize among cultures 
around the globe. It relies on character and story just like the myths of our most 
ancient cultures, the same emphasis that led to the creation of what we call 
storytelling games. 
PI- 
'? 
. 
,.I 
WHAT 
IS Ifirm's Ere THEATW? 
This game is probably different from any game you have played before. In 
is more concerned with stories than it is with winning, rules, game boardsordice. 
card games or Monopoly-type board games. This book contains all the informa- 
' 8  
many ways, live-action roleplaying is not really a game at all. Laws of Ascension 
This game has more in common with childhood games of adventure than with 
tion you need in order to go forth into worlds of imagination. You create the 
action, and you choose your own paths. We have a name for this style of game. 
We call it Mind's Eye Theatre. 
.. _I 
L T J  -." ,
Thinkabout sittingaroundafire tellingghoststoriesorreading talesofKing ; ,E;, 
.
Arthur on a rainy night or just swapping fanciful ideas with a few friends. Live- 
'. 
' 
action role-playing works much the same way. You and some friends gather to ; . 
act out a tale, almost like you're participating in improvisational theater. You ' F. - 
, '
have no stage and no script, but your director (the Storyteller) gives everyone .: - .1 -
''+ 
4;,f.:,2 
- '*. 
.I,'* 
a setting and helps to define the roles. Some assistants (the Narrators) help set 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the stage, work up the special effects or take on the roles of other important 
characters who impact the story but who aren’t necessarily central to it. Each 
participant in the drama has a specific persona. Everyone participates by acting 
within the character-role they’ve set for themselves, and the story unfolds 
through their drives, ambitions, failings and flaws. 
In Mind’s Eye Theatre, you can explore unlimited worlds. In Laws of 
Ascension, you discover the fading majesty of the mages’ world, where willworkers 
of all kinds struggle to keep magic alive in the face of a world that simply doesn’t care 
for it anymore. The drivensouls struggle to bring enlightenment to a population that 
clings desperately to mediocrity. The battle for reality can take place anywhere, 
anytime, be it in dank back alleys, posh skyscrapers, the savage wilderness, unex- 
plored worlds or even within a mage’s own mind. As the mystics say, once you step 
onto the path, you can’t turn back. No matter where it takes you. 
CHARACT€RS 
When you play Laws of Ascension, you take on the persona of a mage, a 
modern mystic with the power to bend reality to her will and change the world 
around her in amazing ways. Your character can be anyone from any walk of life. 
The only limits on your character concept are your imagination and a few 
flexible Ales. You create a character, then act out the pursuit of her goals 
throughout the course of a story. You decide what your character does and says. 
You decide what risks to accept or decline. 
During the game, you speak as your character: Unless you’re talking to a 
Narrator or Storyteller, whatever you say is what your character says. Because most 
of what a Mind’s Eye Theatre player perceives depends on the characters around 
him, players must be vivid and expressive. The characters direct the plot, but the 
events of the game guide and develop the characters at the same time, helping 
them to achieve the story’s goals. As a player in a storytelling game, you have a 
responsibility beyond simply portraying your character. You need to consider the 
story as a whole and your role in making sure that other players enjoy the game. 
Together, you weave a tale that’s entertaining for everyone. 
Creating a character for Laws of Ascension is rather straightforward, 
although you should work with a Storyteller to flesh out your mage. Magicians 
are flexible, dynamic people, so naturally you should make sure that your mage 
fits into the game. You need to do only a few things to define a basic character, 
and once you’ve done so, you can play the game. If you take a little time with a 
Storyteller, you can define a lot of your mage’s mystic potential and options in 
advance, which allows you more freedom during the game itself. 
Your character should be more than just a series of Traits and numbers, 
though. Rather, she should be a living, breathing personality with a past, 
motives, drives, likes, dislikes - 
everything you want to see from a character in 
a movie or a novel. You also need to take the time to figure out who your 
character is as well as what she is before you start playing. While certain details 
and personality traits will come out while you’re playing her, you’ll want to have 
the basics in place already. 
Characters are the heart and soul of a story. Without them, all the patient 
‘ . efforts of the Storyteller are for naught. Appreciate the Storyteller’s efforts by 
ib. 
3 
‘ 1 
following the rules and taking an active part in the game. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The basic premise of Laws of Ascension derives from the tabletop 
roleplaying game Mage: The Ascension. It is not necessary to read or play Mag 
NARRATCBRS 
InLaws of Ascension and other Mind's Eye Theatre games, Narrators are 
the people who help the Storyteller present adventures. Narrators are the 
impartial judges who describe scenes and events that are difficult or dangerous 
to act out. They adjudicate rules and play the roles of antagonists occasionally. 
Generally, enlisting the aid of one Narrator for every five or 10 players makes for 
a good ratio. Narrators usually play characters of their own as well, so that they 
can guide the action directly instead of just trying to tinker with it from the 
outside. The best number of Narrators for your game usually depends how 
experienced your players are at live-action roleplaying. 
Your Laws of Ascension troupe may employ Narrators who oversee certain 
specific areas of the game. These Narrators - 
such as the Paradox Judge or the 
Avatar Guide - 
serve a dedicated function, taking care of potential difficulties 
with one specific aspect of the rules. Chapter Six: Storytelling describes some of 
these specialized Narrator responsibilities in greater detail. 
STCBRYT~LL~R 
Every game of Laws of Ascension that you play must have a Storyteller to 
serve as the ultimate authority and final judge. The Storyteller creates the basic 
elements of the plot and makes sure that the story unfolds well, in addition to 
doing everything the Narrators do. Storytelling is a demanding job, but it is also 
a very rewarding one. 
The Storyteller makes certain that the story has content, interesting hooks 
and a narrative flow. A Storyteller should not just sit back and dictate the plot, 
though. Characters who don't have free will are no fun to play. Instead, a 
Storyteller creates the framework elements of the plot, then turns players loose 
to see what happens. 
During the game, the Storyteller must be watchful and ready to create new 
elements to make sure that the story works out well. He is also responsible for 
ensuring that all of the players have something to do and that everyone is abiding 
by the rules. Although performing all of these tasks simultaneously can be 
exhausting, the sense of accomplishment you get from creating a successful story , 
makes the whole process worthwhile. 
See Chapter Six for detailed information about the role of the Storyteller 
and how to set up your own games. 
PRCBPS 
Props include any item that helps define your character or the action of the i ,! 
: 
:% 
I, 1 
.) L. 
story. Props often help define the tools and beliefs that give mages their power. Each 
magician relies on special practices and items to enact her mystic will, and you can 
use props to simulate many of these foci. Have fun and employ any props that you 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Not to discourage potential St 
ssed enough that running a Laws 
ffects that knock traditional stories on their heads, even if you’re using astric 
ote-based system. Storytellers must be flexible and ready to adapt sto 
THE 
RULES 
w SAFETY 
Behave yourself so that everyone can enjoy this game. You can play Laws 
of Ascension in the home, at conventions or at other safe locations. However, 
ELWLY 
SI~PLE 
This game was designed to be easy to learn and easier to play. Laws of 
Ascension is a storytelling game. The rules are aimed at resolving conflicts 
quickly so that players can continue the story without ever stepping outside their 
characters. We have made every effort to create rules that maintain the integrity 
of the story and the background in which the story is set. 
’ 
THE 
@NLY RULES 
THAT ITIATTER 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


IT’S QNLY A G
~
E
 
This rule is the most important one by far. If a character is killed, if a plot 
falls apart or if a rival wins the day, it’s still only a game. If you take things too 
seriously, you’ll spoil not only your fun but everyone else’s around you as well. 
For that matter, so what if tragedies befall your character? Remember, the hero 
may not always win, but that doesn’t mean the story isn’t entertaining. You can 
relish the setbacks as well as the victories. 
Leave the game behind when it ends. Playing Laws of Ascension is a lot of 
fun. Spending time talking about the game is great. However, calling the person 
who plays the Chantry head at 4:13 AM on Sunday to discuss an idea your 
character has for a new rote is another matter entirely. Keep a little perspective. 
NCB TCBUCHING 
Never actually have physical contact with other players, no matter how 
careful you are or how innocent you believe the gesture is. Accidents can 
happen, intentions can be misinterpreted, and someone might get hurt. Rely on 
the rules to cover physical logistics. 
N e  STUNTS 
Never climb, jump, run, leap or swing from anything during a game. Keep the 
real-world action in your action-packed game low-key. If you can imagine that 
you’re a staff-twirling mystic who can bend reality on a whim, you can imagine that 
you’re leaping over fences and running from pursuers as well. Avoid attracting the 
attention of people who aren’t playing, and use your imagination to its fullest. 
NCB WWCBNS 
Fake or real weapons of any sort are absolutely forbidden. Even obviously 
silly toy weapons are not allowed, just for safety’s sake. Such props give other 
people the wrong impression about what you’re doing, and they could conceiv- 
ably be mistaken for the real thing in the dark. Use item cards to represent 
weapons instead, no matter how cool you think it would be to wear a model of 
your Etherite’s new Antimatter Discombobulater Ray Gun on your belt. 
Ne DRUGS CBR DRINKING 
This rule is a real no-brainer. Drugs and alcohol do not inspire peak 
performance at any activity. They hamper your ability to think and react 
quickly, and at the very least, they screw up your roleplaying ability. Players 
impaired by drugs or alcohol are a danger to other players and to the game as a 
whole. Nothing is wrong with playing a character who’s drunk or stoned, but 
actually bringing illicit substances and paraphernalia to a game is in bad taste at 
best and illegal at worst. Don’t do it. 
& ~ I N W U L  w @THEM 
Remember, not everyone you see, or who sees you, is playing the game. A 
game can be unnerving or even frightening to passersby. Be considerate of 
nonplayers in your vicinity, and make sure that your game-play actions are not 
I 
going to alarm anyone if you are in a public area. Trying to explain to a policeman 5 
that you didn’t really conduct a Satanic ritual on your friend - 
your wizard just 
performed the rite of Gilgul on his shaman - 
is often an exercise in futility. 
~ r, 
I 
,. 
1 1  * *’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


In addition to the standard set of basic rules, Laws of Ascension includes 
a number of optional rules that are intended to facilitate more evocative game- 
play, cut down on the need for differing house rules and otherwise help customize 
the complicated world of magic for individual troupes. However, you should feel 
free to ignore or adjust any of the rules in this book if doing so will make your 
game better. We at White Wolf call this tenet the Golden Rule. If some rule 
included in this book doesn't work for your troupe, change it. If your troupe finds 
a way to handle the Avatar Storm that works better for you than the one in this 
book, go for it. The idea is to have fun. Just be consistent and stand by your 
decision. Nobody likes rules that change every week. 
' 
The object ofLaws of Ascension is not to win or make sure that your mage 
This book presents quite a few optional rules to help you portray more accurately 
the complex worlds and powers that mages are heir to, as well as to accommodate the 
needs of eachhws of Ascension troupe. For example, when it comes to covering the 
incredible diversity of results that can be generated by magical Effects alone, rules have 
to be designed that will work for large groups of people who know each other casually 
or not at all. Those same rules can be overly restrictive, though, when you apply them 
a to smaller troupes in which the players know each other fairly well. However, building 
* 
to relearn the system every time they try out a new game. Faced with such a daunting 
obstacle, what's a helpful game company to do? 
As it turns out, the answer lies somewhere in between. The majority of this 
book gives Storytellers a baseline system that will allow them to run Laws of 
- Ascension games with any number of players, even if they have no prior gaming 
experience with each other or just in general. These foundational rules are 
' somewhat more restrictive, by necessity. In large games, players need clear, 
concrete ways to adjudicate power conflicts fairly without having to call on 
Narrators at every turn or rely solely on the judgment of other people they don't 
I 
However, the optional rules included throughout this book allow you to add 
E 
extra layers of complexity and flexibility that aren't feasible in larger games. They 
also help portray the true fluidity of the Mage: The Ascension tabletop experi- 
*: 
ence. If you have enough Narrators to allow players to make up new Effects on the 
fly without stopping play every five minutes, by all means, institute that rule. If 
: 
m 
2- 
, 
1
1
4
.
 
I *  
1 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


your players know each other well enough that they trust the others to make fair 
decisions on which Effects are vulgar or coincidental, let them. In this manner, the 
optional rules not only help build games that reflect the true power of magic more 
closely, but they encourage a higher level of player trust and overall cooperation 
as well. Just make sure to tell players which of the optional rules are in effect. 
Ultimately, the optional rules are universal house rules. Consider them 
your official suggestions and shortcuts on how to custom-fit games to the troupes 
playing them in a way that will still remain consistent with other Laws of 
Ascension games. Use them or pass them up, as you will. This system allows you 
to come to the table with a player and tell him immediately what rules you do 
and don't use, instead of having pages and pages of customized rules for your 
game. In this way, players changing from game to game already have an idea of 
THE W~IUD 
et= DARKNESS 
At face value, the World of Darkness is not terribly different from our own 
world. Cities bustle with traffic, and the wilderness teems with life. The same 
veneer roils an atmosphere of fear, despair and violence that's far more 
pervasive than any that exists in our own world. The World of Darkness isn't 
just our world with white face paint and black clothing. It's our world through 
the darkest looking glass of the soul. Monsters aren't just rejects from our dimly 
poor work themselves to death and scrabble to find enough food to eat. The pain 
of living and the ruthlessness it takes to succeed forge people into callous lumps 
of iron, and looking out for number one is the whole of existence. 
In turn, many citizens of the World of Darkness have adopted the Punk ethic in 
order to give their lives meaning. Rebellion ismmmonplaceondfierent levels ofsociety, 
provide it all without needing to leave the comfort of one's house. 
This is the world that mages call home. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Since the time of legends, humanity's bright stars have been innovators, 
protectors, mystics and saints. Some are the scientists who chart new frontiers 
and make life safer and easier for everyone. Others are madmen and visionaries 
who push the boundaries of convention. Be they warlocks, witches, sorcerers, 
sages, Sufis, sensei or bards, mages have always populated the pages of history and 
fantasy. In the World of Darkness, mages have had all these roles and more, and 
they continue to have them in the modern day. While some might contend that 
magicians are all demon-worshippers or crazed mystics, the real mages have an 
awareness that transcends everyday thought. Each mage is human, true, but he 
is a human touched by destiny and Awakened to a wider world. 
A great many half-truths and falsehoods surround the myths of mages. Some 
are based in history, some were once true but are true no longer. Others were 
simply paranoid folk tales from the start. The following list lays some of the most 
common misconceptions about the workers of magic to rest. 
Mages must use formulae to cast their spells. False. Although mages can 
and do rely on certain rituals to perform magic, most devise their spells from their 
ownexperiences. With the right knowledge, mages can even create spells on the 
spot for specific needs. 
Mages pass on magical abilities in their own families. False. Mages 
Awaken to the power of magic regardless of genetic heritage. However, some 
mages inherit unique characteristics through family curses or boons. 
Mages consort with demons and infernal powers to gain their magic. 
False.. . usually. A mage's power stems from the belief, will and enlightenment 
within. However, a belief in the power of the infernal can lead a mage to work 
Mages cannot be hurt by mortal weapons. False. Just as mages are human, 
they can be hurt and killed like any other human. However, they can use their 
magic to defend themselves. 
- his magic through the auspices of demons and other corrupt spirits. 
that derive from emotional intent or desire are called Resonance. Blatant side effects 
4 resulting from powerful magic used carelessly are called Paradox Backlashes. 
A mage can hurl lightning and fire, cause earthquakes and fly through 
Mages cannot perform magic in a church or against someone protected 
by the cross. False. Magic works regardless of the influence of religion. Indeed, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Magic and technology are mutually exclusive. False. Reliance on technol- 
ogy and science is just another form of belief, so it works as well as a faith in magic. 
In fact, many mages use advanced technological foci to perform their Effects. 
Mages seek power and enlightenment. True. The quest for magic is 
ultimately a journey of internal exploration. Those who survive learn and grow 
more powerful. Eventually, mages hope to surpass the limits of this universe and 
achieve a higher state of being through the process called Ascension. 
THE 
AWAKENING 
The process that sets a mage apart from the average person is called the 
Awakening. For some mages, the Awakening is a gradual process that leads 
ultimately to anew level of awareness. For others, it's the result of some horrible 
trauma or shock. Once a human Awakens, though, there's no turning back. That 
person is a mage, and with the Awakening comes the realization that the 
individual can change the world, for better or for worse. How the new mage acts 
upon this knowledge depends on the individual. 
During the Awakening, a prospective mage may experience sudden visions, 
dreams, hysterical emotion or surges of magical power. Strange phenomena may 
surround the neophyte as his magical power rages unchecked, reshaping the world 
according tohisdesire. Somemagesdescribemeetingspirits, speaking toangelsor even 
seeing the true form of their souls. Others are tormented by demons or visions from the 
past. A few have no unusual experiences other than a sudden change of paradigm. 
Still, the mage eventually settles into his power, and he must learn to 
channel it, lest he be consumed by it. All that the Awakening does is show the 
new mage that he can change the world; it does not show him the practices that 
make such changes possible. Some mages go insane from the force of the 
experience. Others try to deny their newfound abilities, only to find themselves 
thrust into strange circumstances beyond their control. Many mages discover 
their destiny or evidence of past lives and deeds as a result of Awakening. 
Ultimately, the mage comes to recognize that not only can he reshape the 
universe, he can recast himself. The exploration of magic is a process of change. With 
enough enlightenment and skill, the mage can become something more and better 
than human through a mythical process called Ascension. However, that road is long, 
trying and treacherous for a newly Awakened magician living in these desperate times. 
THE TRADITI~NS 
Gone are the days of wizards who hurled fire and battled dragons. Lost are the 
mystics who saw through the veil of time and death. Only shadows of those powerful 
magicians exist today, and they band together in a group called the Traditions. 
The Traditions formed during the early Renaissance as a body of mystics 
who gathered from around the world. A new reliance on science and reason had 
shaken the very foundations of magic. Mythical creatures were becoming 
extinct, and magical energy was growing scarce. In the face of this desperate 
situation, nine of the largest groups of magicians came together and pledged to 
stand for the practice of magic. Today, the Traditions uphold secret magical 
techniques and spread their wisdom to the select few who will listen. 
The Traditions claim all manner of mysticism and unconventional 
practice as their bailiwick, although their membership can be exclusionary. 
Mages who are not trained in their techniques are shunned and sometimes 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


even hunted as competing influences. Nevertheless, the Traditions do usually 
stand heroically as mages of many and varied stripes who hope to make a real 
difference and return a sense of the magical to the world at large. The modern 
Traditions are the Akashic Brotherhood, the Celestial Chorus, the Cult of 
Ecstasy, the Dreamspeakers, the Euthanatos, the Order of Hermes, the Sons 
of Ether, the Verbena and the Virtual Adepts. In spite of their differences they 
usually work together for common good. 
Historically, the Traditions have been very authoritarian. Elderly mages 
pass on their secrets to eager Apprentices, but they also hold sway over policy 
as a result of their influence and knowledge. Of course, ancient wizards arguing 
over hundred-year-old squabbles often caused the Traditions to suffer from a 
lack of direction. Many Tradition mages simply weren’t in touch with the 
modem world, and they longed for bygone days of magic. Modem disasters and 
crises among mystics have seen to it that few potent Archmages remain. In 
today’s Traditions, the leaders are the up-and-coming mages who can figure out 
magic for themselves and take a positive direction and stand. 
As a body, the Traditions make formal pronouncements about policies and 
set down judgments that are theoretically binding to all members. The Tradi- 
tions decide among themselves how to allocate magical resources and how best 
to pursue their goal of saving the world’s dying magic. A Tradition Council, 
nominally made up of a representative from each Tradition, generally discusses 
plans and votes on all proceedings. Missives both magical and mundane then 
take the results far and wide to Tradition mages across the world and beyond. 
Individual cabals of mages enforce these policies as they see fit, but few would 
buck the combined weight of the Council. In addition to the formidable skills 
of its members, the Council can call upon mages from around the world to make 
its will known. Those mages who bring great harm to the Traditions or to 
Sleepers may face severe consequences, ranging from ostracism to branding of 
the offender’s soul to the permanent destruction of the mage’s mystical power. 
The greatest threat facing the Traditions now is the weight of their own 
impending extinction. Humanity chose reason over mysticism several hundred 
years ago, and magic has been disappearing from the world ever since. Now, 
people have grown so complacent that most individuals can’t even be bothered 
to forge directions for their own lives and make responsible choices for them- 
selves. The Traditions want to alter this momentum, but they’re fighting a losing 
battle. With their own magical resources tapped, the Traditions can only hope 
to influence society subtly in hopes of catching a few people here and there and 
2 : causing them to experience a wider world. To this end, the Traditions move 
+ about secretly looking for people who might have the potential to become 
* powerful new mages. 
Mages who hope to advance in the Traditions do so through a combination 
of political gamesmanship and magical skill. Each individual Tradition teaches 
its own form of magic, which can take a lifetime to master. The skilled mage must 
‘ *  learn to channel those powers, but also to see eye-to-eye with his counterparts 
’ and contemporaries in other Traditions. The mage must juggle the demands of 
his mundane life with the politics of Tradition mages who vie for scarce magical 
resources, specialized training or choice treasures. And, above it all, the hope of 
I )  ,” eventual Ascension glimmers. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE TKHNWRACT 
The Technocracy is the chief adversary of the Traditions and (some would 
say) the architect of the modem world. This collection of mage-scientists hails also 
from the Renaissance, but the order itself has a decidedly different inception. 
Visionaries who dreamt of a safe, stable, classifiable world came together at a great 
convocation to draft articlesof their own secret society, an organization that would 
promote and disseminate the most sublime rational insights ever achieved. Few 
realized that this vaunted science and technology was just as visionary and world- 
changing as magic. Indeed, every Enlightened scientist of the Technocracy was 
and is a mage whose belief empowers his phenomenal science. 
Throughout the Renaissance, the nascent Order of Reason hunted down 
and exterminated supernatural threats to humanity and helped to build an 
orderly society upon principles that anyone could learn and use. The way this 
Order-turned-Technocracy turned out, though, is far from the original intent. 
The modem Technocracy influences and infiltrates high technology institu- 
tions and government organizations all over the world, in hopes of quashing the 
unexplainable, providing the simple sustenance of life to the common man and 
eventually seeking a world of complete order. 
The Technocracy exerts a hidden but pervasive influence on many levels 
of humanity. Technocratic inventions are disseminated throughout the world 
to become accepted as normal. The Technocracy's greatest strength is the 
universal usefulness of its inventions to the common man, which guarantees the 
support of average people. Various groups in the organization watch over 
humanity and make adjustments to affect economics, scientific development 
and social progress. They weed out undesirable traits and encourage useful 
qualities in specimens from among the Masses, although the definition of such 
traits depends on who within the Technocracy asks. 
For the better part of several centuries, the Technocracy turned its resources 
toward wiping out mages, and Technocrat agents are still deadly enemies today. 
The scientists consider unclassifiable magic a danger to humanity, and they work 
to subvert or even kill Traditionalists. However, the Technocracy also spends an 
inordinate amount of time and resources policing the world. Technocrats have a 
plan to reshape the world for the better, but doing so means involving themselves 
in politics, social and religious movements, global economies and other high- 
investment projects. Considering all these responsibilities, the Technocracy has 
its hands full enough. Throw in a world that's far stranger than the scientists want 
to admit, and it's clear that the Technocracy just can't do everything it wants. Still, 
this daunting load has not yet broken the Technocracy's back. Some Technocrats 
are real heroes who champion medicine, advanced communications and other 
modem conveniences that make life safer and better. The Technocracy will 
shepherd the world down a safe, static, predictable path, regardless of the cost. 
DISPARATES 
AND @RPHANS 
Since as many forms of magical practice exist as there are magicians, not all mages 
fall easily into step with the Traditions or the Technocracy. Disparate mages cling to 
a Craft or organized magical subculture, rather than join any particular Tradition. 
Orphans, on the other hand, Awaken and discover their magical potential without a 
mentor, and they must learn magic through their own hard experience. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Disparates are actually fairly common among mages, although not every 
mage really knows one. The individual cultures that cling to magical beliefs still 
shield mages who arise from those cultures. Religious crusaders, djinni-summoners, 
candomble practitioners and more thrive in their isolated enclaves and hand 
down their magical practices. By far, the most prevalent of the Disparates are the 
Hollow Ones. This loose affiliation of nihilistic mages sometimes aids the 
Traditions, but most of the individuals thumb their noses at the very idea of a 
"magical organization." Instead, most Hollow Ones spend more time observing 
the decay and death of the modern world with morbid fascination. 
Orphans come from all walks of life. Sadly, mages aren't always around to 
teach and shepherd the newly Awakened. While some such abandoned mages 
go mad or destroy themselves, others develop their own eclectic magical 
methodologies. An Orphan might pick up a book on New Age occultism and 
decide that it must have something useful. Of course, an Orphan could theoreti- 
cally build his magic on any number of foundations - 
even deleterious 
principles like human sacrifices and maltheism - 
so more properly schooled 
mages are quite leery of these unknown quantities. Often, Orphans must keep 
their heads down since both Tradition mages and Technocrats consider them 
dangerous mavericks with uncontrolled powers. 
S@RCEMRS AND SERWCBFG 
Since even before the Dark Ages, mages haven't worked alone. Sure, mages 
like to claim credit for great human innovations and discoveries, but the fact is 
that while mages may blaze new paths for humanity, it's up to everyone else to 
follow. Miracle workers can't do everything alone, so many surround themselves 
with ranks of assistants, acolytes, confederates and hangers-on. 
In fact, mages aren't the only people who do magic! True, the Awakening 
shatters perceptions and turns someone irrevocably into a mage, but some 
determined occultists unearth resonating truths or powers without ever Awak- 
ening. These sorcerers can stand with the Traditions or Technocracy, or they 
can simply go their own way. Their powers are not as flexible as those of 
Awakened mages, though, for the sorcerers don't have the skill to reshape the 
universe at whim. Nevertheless, few magicians would deride them. Anyone who 
can perform magic is a beacon of hope in this stark modem age. 
Dealing with magic is dangerous even for mages, and it is even more so for 
the few sorcerers who have the opportunity to do the same. Many of the great 
Bygone beasts of earlier ages and the spirits in other worlds are inimical to 
humanity and dangerous. Charms or spells gone awry can strike low their casters, 
not to mention the defenseless Sleepers nearby. However, a few un-Awakened 
^d people still stand with mages for the taste of power or the chance to live and work 
with a magician. Some even do so simply out of love, ambition or hope. Those 
assistants are called consors, acolytes or simply friends and companions. Some- 
times, those with no talent for magic can learn about the ins and outs of theory, 
I the requirements for casting spells and the sheer wonder of the magical world. 
* 
- THE ITkmm~ 
ITJAGE 
The 2 1st century hides many pitfalls on the mage's path. The Technocracy 
has suppressed the history of magic and enforced a sterile, rational order over the 
world. Mages must hide among the Sleepers and avoid notice, lest their 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Supernatural capabilities draw undesired attention. The days of world-shaking 
spells, in which monsters and arcane treasures were commonplace, have passed 
by. The few mages who dare to continue their work find that magic itself is a 
sputtering, dying force that grows increasingly more difficult to invoke. 
And yet, the disappearance of Earth‘s magical Masters has given birth to a 
time in which every individual mage can make a difference according to her own 
drives. Instead of a hierarchy of elite wizards or brooding magicians who are out 
of touch with the everyday world, a collection of dynamic young individuals 
leads the Traditions now. If the cost for magic IS great, these new leaders claim, 
then the rewards can be incalculable. A mage has literally the entire cosmos to 
play in, if only she has the dedication. 
Where will mages be tomorrow? Mages once hoped to restore the mythic 
ages in the modem day, but such a rebirth seems a distant dream now. There will 
be no great and global Ascension. No Ascension War will determine how 
everyone Awakens. Rather, the time has come for individuals to make a 
difference. Humanity may have chosen mediocrity and a world of lazy comforts, 
but individual mages can strive for something better and inspire other people. 
For every person who is dissatisfied with the banalities of modem life, an 
opportunity arises to spread mysticism once again. 
Yet the threat of Armageddon still looms .... 
Old legends and prophecies tell that the world will end after a terrible war or 
a conflagration takes its toll. Recently, a great Reckoning has come to pass, and 
it has resulted in the destruction of the most powerful Tradition and Technocracy 
strongholds. What’s worse, a vicious storm rages in the spirit worlds, making 
passage there a harrowing and perilous undertaking. If these events truly herald 
Armageddon, as those old legends and prophecies foretell, then the fighting over 
petty politics will avail nothing, and the true measure of greatness will be in those 
mages who leave their mark on the world before it ends or is reborn. 
; 
LEXICCBN 
Just as mages use special techniques to describe how they do magic, so too 
have they created their own vocabulary to cover the experiences that are unique . 
to their society. 
c@lTIlTI@N 
PARLANCE 
in its power. 
nection to the Tellurian. 
Acolyte: A servitor of amage who does not perform magic, but who believes 
Arete (AIR-uh-tay): A mage’s level of mystical understanding and con- , 
Ascension: The mythical state of enlightenment beyond human comprehension. ‘ 
Ascension War, The: The conflict to determine whether the world would 
Arcane: An unconscious “cloaking” effect that some mages possess, which 
Avatar: A shard of spirit energy, tied to the human soul, perhaps from the I ’ 
Awakened, The: Blanket term for supernatural entities, including mages. ’ :’;, 
# s  
1 
embrace magic, science or faith. 
renders them immune to scrutiny. 
Pure Ones of the long-ago universe. A mage performs magic through the 
interaction of his Avatar with the universe. 
:J-.Z 
*’ 
. .  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Awakening, The: The moment in which one discovers the power to 
Branding: A punishment in which the mage’s Avatar is marked. 
Bygone: An otherworldly beast, such as a dragon, that has long since 
Cabal: A group of mages bound by some common purpose. 
Censure: A punishment in which the mage is warned against future violations. 
Chantry: A stronghold of mages. 
Coincidental Magic: Magic cloaked in circumstance, which appears as if it 
could have happened coincidentally. 
Consensual Reality: The true nature of reality as understood intuitively by 
the vast majority of Sleepers. Mages and Technocrats recognize the limitations 
of consensual reality, but they are not constrained by them. 
Convention: One of five groups forming the Technocratic Union: Iteration 
X, the New World Order, the Progenitors, the Syndicate and the Void Engineers. 
Craft: A cultural faction of mages. 
Deep Umbra: The aspects of the Umbra far beyond Earth, in deep space. 
Demon: A name for a dangerous creature from the spirit worlds, possibly a 
Dream Realms: Worlds fashioned from dreams kept alive. 
Enlightened Science: The Technocratic philosophy and practice that 
translates abstract reason into reality. (a.k.a. Technocratic magic) 
Epiphany: A magical revelation or sudden insight into magic. 
Familiar: A spirit given flesh, which bonds with a mage to serve him and 
gain sustenance from his Quintessence. 
Focus: An item, act, phrase, gesture or similar artifice required to perform magic. 
Through the focus, the mage concentrates belief and will and creates magical Effects. 
Gaia: The Earth Mother, spirit of Earth as related by various naturalistic mages. 
Gate: A magical doorway that allows passage between two places. 
Gauntlet, The: The barrier separating the material world from the spirit worlds. 
Gilgul: The rite of destroying an Avatar as well as a mage’s ability to do 
Hollow Ones: A Disparate group that espouses post-modernism, the 
Horizon, The: The magical limit separating theNear Umbraand the Deepumbra. 
Hubris: The overwhelming pride that leads a mage to believe that he may 
challenge the cosmos itself, and that convinces a mage that his way is “the right 
- way.” Such pride is often fatal, and it lies at the heart of the conflict between mages. 
Initiation: A test that a young Apprentice mage must pass in order to gain 
recognition and accept full responsibility within a Tradition. 
Mage: Term for a human who can work magic according to a discrete set of 
beliefs and practices, and thereby cause the world to change according to her desire. 
Magic: The act of altering the world through force of will and the practice 
Marauder: A mage whose magical paradigm has become the whole of his 
change the universe. 
disappeared from Earth. 
spirit, possibly something else. 
magic or to reincarnate. 
Gothic subculture and decadence in response to the decaying world. 
6 
* 
t 
reality and trapped him in an endless Quiet. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Metaphysic Trinity: The universal forces of Stasis, Dynamism and Entropy. 
Methodology: A sub-group within a Technocratic Convention. 
Near Umbra: The parts of the Umbra around Realms and near the Earth. 
Nephandus, (4): A mage who has consigned his soul to demonic slavery 
Node: A place of power where Quintessence flows freely and strongly. 
Oracle: A legendary mage whose enlightenment has exceeded the under- 
Orphans: Mages who Awaken without formal training and who school 
Ostracism: A punishment declaring a mage separated from mage society. 
Otherworlds: Realms outside the Gauntlet. 
Paradox: Reality’s defense against careless magical abuse. Paradox can Back- 
lash against a mage directly, or it may build up subtly to strike with more force later. 
Paradox Realm: A temporary Realm created by a huge Backlash of Paradox, 
wherein a mage must unravel the bizarre twisting of the universe to escape. 
Paradox Spirit: A entity that hounds a mage as a result of Paradox. 
Path: A general term for destiny, or for a particular branch of magical practice. 
Pattern: The metaphysical composition of an object, place, person or idea. 
Pogrom, The: The Technocratic purge of supernatural elements. 
Portal: A permanent Gate, allowing access to or from (not always both) a 
particular location. Portals can be keyed to allow only certain access or certain 
times of activation or any number of security measures. 
Prime: The force of energy that describes all of reality’s basic composition. 
Procedures: Applications of Enlightened Science that prcduce “magical” Effects. 
Protocols, The: A code ofhonor and set of rules held by the Traditions. Many 
young Traditionalists see no need to constrain themselves to all of the Protocols. 
Pure Ones: Legendary primordial beings from the dawn of creation. Some 
mages believe that Avatars are pieces of the Pure Ones. 
Quiet: A temporary delusional state brought on by Paradox and magic. 
Quintessence: The energy of magic; the building blocks of Prime energy. 
Reality Deviant: A Technocratic term for an Awakened mage or other 
Realms: The various worlds of the Tellurian. 
Resonance: Mystical traces and attunements tied to magical actions, 
emotions, intent and desire. All magic carries Resonance, and Resonance 
reflects a mage’s will in creating an Effect. 
for magical power and who seeks to return the universe to primordial chaos. 
standing of other magicians, perhaps even to Ascension. 
themselves in their own magical techniques. 
All things are created from Quintessence, and destroyed forms return to it. 
anomalous supernatural creature. 
I 
Rote: A magical Effect handed down as a common practice. 
Seeking: A quest for greater enlightenment. 
Shade Realm: The Umbral component of a Shard Realm. 
Shard Realm: A Realm or world corresponding to one of the nine elements 
of magic, which was sundered from Gaia long ago. Each is ruled by a powerful 
spiritual entity and is thought to correspond with the moon and one of the eight 
other planets in the solar system. 
I Tc’; 
\ 
L. 1, *’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Sleeper: A person who has not yet Awakened and discovered the fullness 
ular element of reality that can be codified and manipu- 
Static Reality: The "natural course" of reality that is unaffected by the 
direction of magic. Static reality has become more and more constrictive as the 
world becomes less accepting of change or magic. 
of the supernatural world. 
Symposium: A formal meeting of Technocrats. 
Tass: Quintessence held in a physical object. Such an object can be used 
Tapestry, The: A metaphor for reality as a whole. 
Technocracy, The: The modern organization and conspiracy dedicated to 
furthering a scientific and rational paradigm throughout the world. The goal of 
the Technocracy is to make reality safe for humanity by removing random and 
dangerous Reality Deviants. It believes that humanity does not have the ability 
to cope with such elements on its own. As a result, the Technocracy (or 
Technocratic Union) strives to eliminate magical phenomena and to stop 
mages, whose powers they do not understand. 
for barter, or to power magical Effects. 
Tellurian: The whole of reality. 
Tradition: One of the Nine Mystic Traditions, a group of mages who share 
similar training and outlooks. The Traditions fight to defend magic against the 
Technocracy, and to defend the world against the depredations of Marauders 
and Nephandi. These groups are the Akashic Brotherhood, the Celestial 
Chorus, the Cult of Ecstasy, the Dreamspeakers, the Euthanatos, the Order of 
Hermes, the Sons of Ether, the Verbena and the Virtual Adepts. 
Tribunal: A gathering of Tradition mages to discuss important matters. 
Umbra: The spirit world(s). 
Urnbrood: Any number of creatures and spirits that exist in the spirit worlds. 
Vulgar Magic: Magic that breaks the laws of consensual reality, such as 
Wonder: An object of magical power. Some Wonders are simple objects 
that perform only a small trick or hold a tiny amount of Quintessence, while 
others are legendary artifacts capable of phenomenal feats of magic and holding 
great amounts of mystical energy. 
8 hurling flame, flying through the air or turning someone into a toad. 
Wyck: A common name for primordial magi and magic. 
t: A mage with a fair degree of aptitude and power. Some of the most 
Apprentice: A mage who has not been initiated, but who studies the forms 
n honorific indicating a mage's Traditional affiliation: "Night- 
ages left on Earth are Adepts. 
of a Tradition. 
Barabbi: The Traditional name for the Nephandi. 
Celestine: A great spirit, essentially a god. 
Consor: A potent ally of a mage, who is not a mage himself. 
Deacon: A common title for a founder of an established Chantry. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Disciple: The initiated beginners of the Traditions. Disciples can perform 
Errant: A mage whose Chantry and cabal have been destroyed. 
Fellow: A member of a Chantry who is not a founder. 
Incarnae: Greater spirits; the servants of the Celestines. For all intents and 
purposes, demigods. 
Lord: An Umbrood spirit less powerful than an Incama but greater than a 
Preceptor or Minion. 
Master: A mage of great power and ability who has reached the pinnacle 
of one or more Spheres. Such mages are extremely rare on Earth, as most work 
their highly dangerous magic in the more pliable spirit worlds. 
limited magic, and they are accepted as Tradition members. 
Mentor: A mage who teaches another. 
Minion: A low-ranking Umbrood spirit. 
Pedagogue: A Hermetic tutor of great fame, usually quite powerful and 
surrounded by students. 
Preceptor: An Umbrood spirit that is less powerful than a Lord, but more 
powerful than a Minion. 
Primus: “First One,’’ used to refer to the founders of the Traditions and the 
current living heads of said Traditions. In the wake of the destruction of 
Doissetep and Concordia, many Traditions are without Primi. 
Rogue: A renegade mage. 
Sentinel: A mage who guards a Chantry but is not a member. 
Technomancer: A mage of a mystic Tradition who uses the trappings of 
technology, but combines them with mystical understanding. Not to be confused 
with aTechnocrat, a mage who relies wholly on the theories of Enlightened Science. 
Tutor: Mages who have become proficient teachers. This term denotes 
some respect. 
h ’ s  THEATRETER~S 
Ability - 
A Trait representing something that a character knows or can do. 
Attribute - 
The raw potential of an individual, from social acumen to 
Challenge -Any time that two opponents face off and throw Rock-Paper- 
Extended Challenge - 
A challenge that continues until the tester loses. 
Health Level - 
A measure of how injured a character is. 
Scene - 
A location where action is taking place, or the specific duration 
for such an action. 
Simple Test - 
Any time two opponents throw Rock-Paper-Scissors 
without comparing Traits. 
Static Test - 
A challenge that requires someone to risk a certain number 
of Traits to complete a task. 
Trait - 
An adjective or number used to describe the character’s At- 
tributes, Abilities and Advantages. 
Turn - 
A unit of time in Mind’s Eye Theatre play, usually considered to 
be the equivalent of about three seconds, but generally as long as necessary for 
intellect to physical prowess, and the Traits to measure such. 
Scissors to determine the outcome. 
I 
, r, I.’ 
everyone involved in a situation to take one simple action. 
,” L s’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ionally or tweaking a dial as she studied the readout its tiny lights presented. Th 
mall box emitted no sounds, but the set of lights on irs face glowed dully as th 
ht to light across the arc of LEDs. For the last five minut 
ady, warm orange right in the middle ofthe arc. 
beside Florence, David gazed at the lights once more 
She was oblivious to her surroundings, and he had to 
e than once as she tripped over tree roots or wandere 
aved walking path. Florence adjusted her stride each time without 
ling up and continued to follow the device. 
“Was it wise to bring Tiernan into this?” David mused aloud. The sound 
is voice caused Florence to start suddenly, then grin sheepishly ar him. 
“I’ll admit that he’s a wildcard,” she said, “but he’s all we’ve got, 
e? Would you rather call on Chancellor and the Order of Hermes 
ybe Fauntleroy. I don’t think he’s throwing one ofhis ‘soirees’ tonig 
might even be sober.” 
David shook his head with a wince. ‘‘I’ll admit Tiernan is the better choic 
$sense from him. He’s...’’ 
ot exactly. Overly intense. He’s so wra ped up 
to fight with other people to reaffirm w K o he is. H 
otivations in his struggle with his inner self.” 
ed in her tracks and regarded David for a long moment. Th 
was nearly devoid of people. The trees swayed gently in 
ed along thestreets and pastshops attheedge ofthe p 
let the world recede into abstraction. 
oke. “You shouldn’t be so judgmental. Maybe he 
e all, right? He deals with things his way. That’s 
, but.. . rhat self-deslrucfiveness isn’t encouraging. Perh 
approached someone from a different Tradition.” David 
eyes appeared to show boredom, but his attention focused 
versation at hand. 
“Who?” Florence challenged. “A Virtual Adept? Even more arrogant tha 
an.Dreamspeaker? Ideal, but nearly impossible to find. Why would the 
coming to the city? Euthanatos?” 
on’t know,” David said. 
could always ask Fauntleroy.” 
vid winced again. “Point taken. Any luck with your device?” 
h,yes,”Florenceperkedupatthechangeofconversation. 
“Justover there 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Nine Traditions make up the core of mystical society. These Traditions 
train willworkers in a variety of techniques handed down from mentor to student 
in unbroken spans of history. Each Tradition has its own heart and culture, but 
together they span the world in hopes of protecting and promoting magic. 
Whether standing against the Technocracy or working for mundane causes, the 
Traditions promote the welfare of mages everywhere by sharing resources, 
codifying magical phenomena and trading knowledge. 
HISTCBRY 
When they hear the tales of ancient plots and wars fought, many Initiates find 
it hard to think of a time before the Traditions existed. However, the idea of the 
Traditions and the Council of Nine is a relatively new invention that dates back to 
the beginning of the Renaissance. During the Mythic Ages, when magic operated 
in full view of the masses and there was no Paradox to fear, most mages had little in 
common with each other. Outside of the Order of Hemes in Europe and some 
scattered groups in China, India and northern Africa, mages kept largely to 
themselves, learning where they could and uniting under no common cause. 
Yet, as the influence of the Order of Reason grew, the Order of Hemes in Europe 
first attempted to bring all the wizards it encountered under its banner. The Order of 
Hermes assimilated those wizards its mages encountered whose styles and beliefs differed 
from the Order's own paradigm. In the Cnent, emissaries of the Akashic Brotherhood 
traveled across several auntries and took in myriad religious beliefs, while proselytizing 
a greater goal of human advancement, Other groups, such as the Celestial Chorus, took 
nascent form withi other supernatural communities as ideas spread to like-minded 
mages. Each group tried to expand and include other magicians under its banner. 
When these efforts failed-mages have always beenaproud, stubborn lot, and 
they do not take kindly to being catalogued by outsiders- the Order shifted instead 
to recognizing formal groupings of wizards outside of itself. It then asked that those 
groups organize and elect representatives to serve on a grand council of wizards. Seers 
of Chronos (who would later become the Cult of Ecstasy) brought predictions of a 
grand alliance and the reclusive Ahl-i-Batin worked to bring emissaries to the table 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


from groups around the world. When some of the groups that the Order contacted 
argued that styles and beliefs varied widely among their own camps (notably those 
that would become the Verbena and the Dreamspeakers), the Order responded that 
it was not a single specific set of beliefs they were looking to recognize. Rather, a 
general “tradition” of magical practice, such as spirit-calling or shapeshifting, would 
suit the Order’s needs just fine. Thus came the recognized term Tradition, for even 
if two mages disagreed over the actual points of their group’s orthodoxy, they could 
still be counted as part of the same loose magical tradition. 
Nine seats were made available on the Council, representing the nine divisions 
or Spheres of magic that the Traditions eventually agreed upon. One mage from the 
Tradition that showed the greatest facility for that Sphere held each seat at any given 
time. Operating from a Chantry named Horizon, the members of the Council 
formulated Tradition strategies, worked to smooth relations between members of 
radically different ideologies and otherwise ensure that the Traditions worked toward 
enlightenment harmoniously. Naturally enough, these lofty goals were sometimes 
overshadowed by politics, power struggles and other moments of blindness, but the 
Council endured even during the worst of times. It continued to offer guidance and 
hope to those mages who fought to bring magic back to the lives of the Sleepers. 
” 
~~BTECTIVES 
OneofthefirstordersofbusinessforthecoUncilofNinewas 
to formulateanoverall 
plan, not simply for the battle against the Order of Reason, but for all Tradition mages 
and hopefully even humanity itself one day. Some called it hopelessly idealistic and 
unrealistic, saying that it proposed the impossible, but the Council knew the importance 
of having a dream to reach for that was greater than any one mage or even than the 
Council itself. Although time has since altered the way Tradition mages interpret some 
of these ideals, and although each Tradition has its own take on how and when these 
ideals apply, the principles that the Council formulated have remained the Same for 
8gi 
hundreds of years. The most common presentations of the Council’s goals are as follows: 
ASCENSICBN 
While every Tradition has its own vision of this lofty goal, pursuing Ascension has 
been the Council’s staunchest position since its foundation. It remains so even now in 
theafiermathofthe AscensionWar.Simplyput, allmagesshouldbefieeandencouraged 
to pursue Ascension-provided that they are not serving the Nephandi, the Marauders 
ortheTechnocraticUnionbydoingso,ofcourse.TheAscensionofth~factionswould 
result in the destruction or strangulation of the cosmos, so their pursuit of Ascension 
cannot be allowed to continue. However, interfering with another Tradition mage’s 
sincere efforts to gain enlightenment is not only disrespectful, it also helps strengthen 
static reality and make magic harder for everyone. By working toward Ascension, the 
mage keeps hope for the future alive and ensures that even a tiny part of reality will not 
bow to conformity. Initially the Traditions promoted an idea of global Ascension, in 
whichall humanity wouldbeuplified to anew levelof awareness. However, many mages 
havesinceshiftedtheir focus tothe ideaof individual Ascension, hopinginstead topursue 
personal truths and encouraging others to do the same. 
Although every Tradition’s design for them is ddferent, all Traditions are united in 
theiragreementthattheConsensusdepenclsonSleepers 
togive itpwer.Evennow, with 
reality slidq toward the hopelessly static, the only real hope for the Traditions lies not 
inincrediblefeatsofmagic, butratherinswayingtheheartsandmindsofthemassesback 
“
I
 
, I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to their cause. To that end, mages educate Sleepers as often as possible, Awaken them 
when they can and protect them at all costs, despite the Sleepers’ ignorance of the truth 
of reality. Without Sleepers who are willing to question static reality and search for 
something better, all magic would cease to be, and that cannot be permitted to happn. 
With the Awakening comes the potential to cause a great amount of harm and 
destruction. Some willworkers begm to fancy themselves above the law, doing what they 
willandusingtheirpowerstoescaperetribution. 
Inmagesociety, thekindsofpowersthat 
canbecalledoninevenaminor conflict necessitate some otherway ofhearing grievances 
and settling disputes. To make sure that both extremes of justice were covered, the 
Council ofNine created asystemof crimes and applicable punishments that all members 
of the Traditions recognize. (For the specifics of thii system, see “Tradition Justice’’ in 
Chapter Five, page 2 15 .) Mages found guilty of these offenses can expect to be punished 
in accordance with these rules regardless of where they are or who is judging them. 
Likewise, particularly serious and/ or recalcitrant offenders can expect to find a group of 
experienced and anm mages hot on their trail before long, even in these dark days. 
TUSTICE 
&SECT 
With the categorization of the Spheres came the concurrent need to find 
some way of comparing the relative status of different mages. Mages of different 
Traditions needed to know how to address each other properly and have some 
general idea of the level of progress other wizards had made along the path to 
enlightenment. While some Traditions use different titles, and others use none at 
all save when addressing outsiders, the system has made it possible for mages of 
differing backgrounds to gauge eachother’s experience and temper their reactions 
accordingly. This system is still in use, even in the wake of the recent flight of many 
! of the more enlightened mages. (For the titles and game mechanics inherent to 
this system, see “Reputation” in the Rules, Systems and Drama Chapter, page 213.) 
While bringing enlightenment to all is a noble goal, the reality is that not 
everyone is ready to Awaken, and many consider even the slightest hint of the 
supernatural extremely dangerous. The witch-buming fires of the Inquisition stand as 
testament to the frightening power of the masses to eliminate what they do not 
understand. Therefore, the Council created what is known as the Rule of Shade, a 
general prohibition against exposing the workings of magic to the world in a form that 
the world is not ready to accept. Revealing one’s m e  nature to those outside magical 
society or performing especially vulgar magic in public is forbidden, since such acts 
threaten to start the Inquisition anew and alert the Technocracy to the presence of 
Tradition mages in the area. While slips of some kind are inevitable, the mage must 
,” do his best to repair the damage he’s caused. Clever acts of magic are certainly 
permissible since they help chip away at the facade of static reality, but the Paradox 
generated by proud and foolish acts usually fiy the mages who perform them, making 
the sacrifices pointless. If a mage is to survive, he must be subtle, discreet and careful. 
Despite the Traditions’ noble formative goals, time has altered and eroded 
, 
many Tradition strengths and agendas. On one hand, many founders and 
’ e supporters of the Traditions no longer exist. Even mages must succumb to age 
, 
eventually, and the Council has been around for hundreds of years. On the other 
! me hand, the increasingly static and rational world has made some goals difficult or 
RULE w SHADE 
CURR~~“T~FFAIRS 
‘ (I t: ! 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


impossible to achieve. Modem Tradition mages must deal with the realities of 
their situation. No godlike Master is going to save the Traditions and magic itself 
from extinction; it's up to Earth's survivors to see to that themselves. 
Of course, the situation isn't all bad. The disappearance of the oldest 
Masters has opened up new possibilities for Initiates and Disciples of the modern 
era. While magical training may be difficult, no crazed wizards with 200-year- 
old grudges are guiding the Traditions in pursuit of personal vendettas, and no 
restrictions exist on what mages can study. Enforcement of many Tradition rules 
is lax because every mage makes a contribution in some form and is just too 
valuable to alienate or harm. Tradition mages swap ideas and goals with a 
boundless fervor that surpasses any of the cooperative efforts of earlier ages. 
FRACTURED 
UNITY 
Recent events have shattered the former strength of the Council of Nine, 
leaving most mages without a solid sense of leadership as the fires of the Ascension 
War die down and the ceaseless monotony of static reality begins to set in. Prompted 
by the agitation of a rabble-rousing mage long believed dead, a number of young 
wizards attacked Horizon Chantry from within, sparking a tremendous magical 
battle that destroyed the entire Realm and left dozens of the most powerful members 
of the Traditions dead or missing. Efforts to contact the missing have proved fruitless, 
and many Disciples and lower-ranking mages have been left to fend for themselves 
in the increasingly dangerous reality of Earth. Some noble mages have stepped in to 
try to fill the posts now deserted. Others have forsaken the notion of Tradition unity 
altogether, turning their attentions toward their own interest and closing their eyes 
to the dream of Ascension that was once the birthright of all Tradition members. 
All hope is not lost yet, however. Indeed, some groups have become more 
internally cohesive than ever. After all, the harshness of circumstance is a better 
motivation for cooperation than any more lofty ideals could ever be. Cabals 
composed of different Traditions, even those that include a Hollow One or two, 
. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Gve spoken of a golden 
time when all the world w 
the world around them. 
From the Shaolin temples of China to the remote masters of Japan to 
the wandering mystics of India, the Akashic Brotherhood spread slowly 
but steadily, battling the agents of darkness and ignorance and striving to 
unlock the potential within all the Avatars they came across. They created 
Do (pronounced "doe," literally "the Way") as an expression of their 
teachings. It is at once a martial art and a way of living. Those who study 
Do strive to put their mind, body and magic in harmony in order to create 
a perfect synthesis of the soul. And while only the Awakened could grasp 
the true potential of Do, Sleepers nevertheless benefited from the mun- 
; dane aspects of the training, and the philosophy of righteous thought and 
action took hold in many areas. 
over the centuries in conflicts with authorities both mortal and supernatu- 
E ral. To make things worse, deep philosophical differences drew the 
$ Brotherhood into a crippling 300-year war with the Euthanatos Tradition, 
extending precious resources further and diverting the Akashics from the 
path to enlightenment. 
By the modern age, the temporal strongholds of the Tradition are all 
but gone, except in the most secluded parts of the world. The Brother- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Asian philosophy in Western culture has 
seeded the minds of the masses with many 
central Akashic ideals and breathed new 
life into the Brotherhood’s ancient quest 
for Ascension. Many Akashics are also 
called on to be the front-line soldiers in 
conflicts against Techno- 
crats and other enemies 
of the Traditions. 
While they stress that 
physical prowess is only 
part of the path to enlight- 
enment, none of them deny 
that it is also very helpful in 
surviving the worst of the 
of Darkness. 
m that Akashics of great 
power were involved in the events that 
brought on the Avatar Storm and the 
subsequent disappearance of many of the 
more enlightened mages around the 
world. While the Brotherhood does not 
acknowledge these whispers officially, 
tat many of their greatest 
lave not been heard from 
time, which worries the 
deeply. It is hard 
h to progress along the 
to enlightenment with the 
igly individual ethic that 
Akashics believe in with- 
: a least a few Masters to 
itch over Initiates and 
elp bring back those who 
tray from the path. Some 
j f  the younger mages worry 
hat the Tradition is rud- 
lerless in the face of the 
worst storm in its history. 
Still others worry about 
e number of students 
ho seem more con- 
erned with the martial 
aspects of Do than 
studying its philo- 
sophical side, and 
who have given the 
( 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Tradition an undeserved “chop-socky” reputation among many mages. 
Regardless of these problems, however, the wise new leaders of the Tradition 
know that the path ofrighteous action always leads true in the end. If it takes 
a hotter fire to forge a finer sword, then into the flames the enlightened 
traveler must walk. 
R~LEPLAYING 
HINTS 
Western preconceptions to the contrary, the Akashic philosophy is 
neither one of navel-gazing contemplation and fortune-cookie koans, nor 
is it a flourish of outlandish martial arts followed by a sermon about 
believing in yourself and eating right. Rather, it is an appeal to simplifica- 
tion, the removal of unnecessary objects and desires so that one can focus 
a proper home fcM t 
and understattding, 
as indicating that everyone is stunned wkh revulsisri at thedght of a bloody 
scene of occult sacrifices, the 
hic Brother may make a Simple 
Test. On a win or tie, the Bro 
able tmct rationally. On a loss, 
the player must spend a Trait 
The character to overcome the 
1 impulse, just like anyone else. 
In addition, all Akashic Brothers receive at least some training in Do 
L) regardless of faction. Therefore, beginning Akashics receive a level of Brawl and 
’ the Brawl specialization of Do for free. (See the Abilities section of Chapter 
Three for rules on specialization.) Alternatively, you may replace one or both 
of these with a free level of Meditation instead. 
Tradition Disadvantage: Carrying Water and Chopping Wood 
As centered as their philosophy is on individuality, Akashic teachers 
believe that young practitioners must find their own path to Ascension, which 
; I often proves very frustrating for young mages. Any mentor that an Akashic 
Brother relies upon probably either gives very cryptic answers to tough 
questions, or he can’t offer personalized advice. An Akashic Brother cannot 
* 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


use a Library Background to learn Spheres, and he must make a Simple Test 
(win or tie) to learn a level of Sphere magic from any mentor or tutor. Failure 
means that the Akashic student simply can't grasp the intricacies of the 
personal magic, and he can't spend the Experience Traits for the new level 
until testing again at the end of the next game. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


in respect to the One once more. Indeed, while some other Traditions see 
Ascension as a personal matter or as an elite understanding, the Chorus sees its 
role instead as that of the shepherd, protecting the Sleepers from wicked forces 
like the Nephandi and the Technocracy and guiding all humanity to Ascension. 
Religion has obviously been the most important force in the history of the 
Chorus, and its roots go back to the beginning of civilization itself. 
In its time, the Tradition has embraced all faiths that seek to understand 
their proper relation to creation, a fact that still burns some of the more 
conservative members. This diversity has been both a curse and a blessing for 
the Chorus over time. In some eras, the Chorus became a truly unifying 
force, embracing all faiths. In others, it became dogmatic and insular, even 
warring internally over the nature of the one “true” religion. All Initiates 
t learn of the role of the Chorus on both sides of the Crusades and the 
Inquisition, for example, and they are cautioned not to become so caught up 
in their individual devotions that they forget the Song of harmony that 
exists in all things. 
Of course, the other Traditions have not forgotten the role the Chorus 
played in various tragedies of the past, and the decline in religious obser- 
vance in general over the past several centuries has further undercut the 
* Chorus’ sway with them. The Chorus’ early ties to the Order of Reason 
(especially the branch that became the New World Order) don’t help either. 
Despite the growing number of non-Christian members of the Chorus, they 
are often lumped under the banner of Catholicism and treated with a 
_i 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Fortunately enough, the turn of the millen- 
nia nonetheless ushered in a swell of belief in 
the tenets of the Chorus, among both Sleepers 
and the Awakened. After all, the revelation 
that the divine is not remote and disinterested 
but imminent and involved knows no barriers. 
Couded with the events of the Dast several 
years, this revival has been a much- 
needed shot of life into the stagnating 
ranks of the Chorus. The previous strict 1 
hierarchy has been shaken up, and 
new, idealistic members ofmany faiths 
have a chance to really make a dif- 1 
ference without being bogged down 
in protocols and procedure. It is an 
accordingly exciting time to join 
the Chorus. While the Technoc- 
racy and apotential apocalypse still 
lurk around the corner, the Chori, 
ters know that this chance may v, 
the last good one they get for an 
thousand years, and they inten 
take it! 
RCDLEPLAYING 
HINTS 
While religious observance 
an important part of all Choriste. 
lives, what’s truly important t 
them is faith in the existence o 
something greater than them- 
selves and a desire to stand in 
proper relation to this force. Cho- 
rister characters need not always 
be models of celibacy, chastity, 
charity or any other standard 
measure of piety. While most of 
them adhere to some moral stan- 
dard as a part of the search for the 
divine, actual codes of conduct 
vary widely depending on wha 
faith the character follows. Playei 
should research their charactei 
ethics, style of dress and other f; 
tors accordingly. After all, a Cathc 
mystic will react differently to 
some situations than an Is- a 
I 
lamic, Shinto or even 
Protestant member might. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The difference between playing a stereotype and playing a character lies in 
getting those variations right. In addition, while a number of Choristers are 
priests or other invested members of their chosen faith, the majority are still 
lay members. They are extraordinarily devout ones, to be sure, but they are 
not possessed of any particular privileges or duties in the eyes of their church. 
Some may be outspoken and evangelical, some may be humble and intro- 
spective, but all have the same faith at the core. 
Specialty Sphere: Prime 
Common Foci: Song, prayer, bells, incense, candles, holy symbols, religious 
Tradition Advantage: Song o 
A popular modern homily hol 
artifacts, pure water, holy texts, religious rituals 
the ranking members of the vari 
f devotion that surrounds 
ose Choristers in 
first aid or shelter 
Faithful folk usu 
Tradition Disadvan 
on the surface, all Choristers 
e true path, so the Tradition has 
cension should be brought to the 
ars as well. To reflect these past 
They need not be violent about their dislike, but it is definitely there. If 
- members of this Tradition are ever to bring on Ascension, they must learn 
to shrug off these bitter shackles and embrace each other in the true spirit 
of unity. A Chorister must select at least one faith that the character finds 
revolting or entirely misguided, and it should be one that a Storyteller 
- approves of. (No fair taking Zoroastrianism just because you know it will 
never come into play.) The Chorister suffers a one-Trait penalty on all 
challenges involving a follower of that repugnant faith, simply because of 
8 
I 
I : 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


transcending the limits of the flesh and experiencing something greater. 
Whether it is music or sex or pain or dance or hunger or any of a thousand other 
things, humanity has always been secretly drawn to extremes. It is the province 
of the Cult of Ecstasy to take these private vices and push them to the forefront 
of discussion, to tear away the taboos that surround such practices and to force 
society to face the wisdom to be gained from them. The Cult originated in 
India as the seers of Chronos then spread quickly across the world, adapting 
to the cultures it encountered and their ideas about experience and transcen- 
dence. Wherever Cultists went, they shook up established ideas and challenged 
long-accepted dogmas. Even for mages, the Cultists have always been trail- 
blazers and innovators, and while conventional morality frowns on some of 
the more base practices, no one can argue that they haven’t been a dynamic 
force in magic. 
Today, the Cult considers itself nothing if not constantly changing, and 
it embraces gladly just about any practice its members come across if that 
practice proves to be another key to the door of enlightenment. This process 
is best expressed in the Code of Ananda, a series of proverbs that are as close 
to sacred as anything the Cult will admit to. The Cultists preach joy, 
compassion, pure emotion and respect for the passions of others in order to 
guide young Cultists along the path to enlightenment and learn to under- 
stand the views of others. 
While the majority of Cultists are and have always been remarkably 
responsible individuals who respect themselves and the desires of others around 
them, one cannot espouse the kind of extreme beliefs and visionary ideas that 
these mystics do without attracting negative attention from those with less 
encompassing perspectives. In addition, the Cult has had to struggle with the 
skeletons of addiction, overdose and burnout throughout its existence as 
members get caught up in the tools of their craft instead of its ends. What’s more, 
their mastery of Time magic is often as much of a curse as it is a blessing. Seeing 
how a relationship will end on one’s first date or witnessing a murder that took 
place a century ago on the site of a current residence puts a great strain on normal 
life relations, to say the least. 
During the rise of the Technocracy and the ebb of the Mythic Ages, many 
other mages considered the Cult more interested in fleeting pleasures and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


vague prophecies than fighting the grow- 
ing Ascension War. They claimed that 
the Cultists ignored the more subtle 
effects that their revolutionary ideals 
were having on the strict cultural 
systems around the world. The 
other Traditions failed to under- 
stand that while Cultists will 
fight with all their souls for the 
causes they believe in, they sel- 
dom find much wisdom in 
irect confrontations. Instead, 
Cultists prefer to alter the very 
viewpoint of their opponent to some- 
thing more pleasing instead. Adead body 
cannot hope to reach Ascension, after 
all. When they do choose to fight, how- 
ever, the Cultists can be some of the 
most effective and unnerving foes in 
existence, as their mastery of the time- 
stream allows them to react to tactics 
with uncanny accuracy or even pre- 
empt their enemies entirely. 
Nowadays, it would seem that the 
unabashed hedonism of many societal 
subcultures (especially youth-oriented 
ones) would fall right into the Cult’s 
designs, but such is not quite the case. 
While they appreciate and encourage 
the elimination of many of the old ta- 
boos and other empty social restrictions 
that these lifestyles endorse, they are 
troubled by the heavy dependence on 
chemical escape and the rising philo- 
sophical nihilism that seems to 
accompany most of these scenes. To 
the Cult, what matters is pushing one’s 
boundaries and loving life on all lev- 
els, not becoming trapped in an 
addiction or trying to avoid the expe- 
rience of living at all costs. As 
desperate as the fight has become, the 
Cult has one powerful ally on its side: 
the knowledge that no matter what 
limits the Technocracy can come up 
with, there will always be those who 
see those doctrines not as limits to 
accept but as challenges to overcome. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


RBLEPLAYING 
HINTS 
Only those who are at peace with themselves and their desires have the 
strength to truly throw themselves into their passions without getting lost. 
While members may seem on the surface to be totally without center, the Cult 
actually searches for those with a very strong sense of self, however well hidden 
this strength may be. Indeed, contrary to popular belief, the typical Cultist is 
ing, dance, martial arts, 
scenes. A Cultist 
ite. This “coolness” factor is not 
and it is not really helpful beyond 
casual acquaintances, but it defi- 
traveling in local artistic and 
uncanny preparedness and flexibility 
allows him to move easily between levels of society. Although it doesn’t 
5 replace the usefulness of Etiquette or Streetwise Ability, it does mean that the 
-- Cultist has a reasonable expectation of what to bring and how to behave to 
i 
As centered as they are on finding new perspectives, all Cultists receive two 
1 I (total) free levels between Athletzcs, Etiquette, Expression, Performance, Streetwise 
e - or Subterfuge in fields that suit their particular style of magic. Many Cultists focus 
on song, dance or playing instruments that can easily be carried, but that rule is 
as often observed in its violation as in its practice. 
fit in with folks from all social circles. 
‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Like many mages, most newly Awakened Cultists have trouble separating 
the will to perform magic from the foci that help channel it into being. Unlike 
other willworkers, however, the foci that the Cult uses all too easily become 
addictions in their own right. Drugs, sex, music, daredevil stunts and even 
meditation can all become crutches for the character using them, and some 
Cultists find themselves compelled to indulge in their foci on a regular basis even 
when they are not working magic. Every Cultist character indulges in some sort 
of vice, and he must take the opportunity to indulge at least once per game 
session. Usually this indulgence has some sort of down side. For instance, a 
cultist might wind up out of play for an hour at a really opportune moment, or 
he might find himself two Traits down on all challenges for an hour. The 
Storyteller determines the specific severity of the addiction, but either of the 
preceding penalties is appropriate as a general rule. 
hers of forbidden pleasures, 
Loki, these mages fight twice as hard 
the illusions of the modern world th 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Spirits have always be 
e earliest elementals and 
lic visitors. Mythology 
cular culture or even a 
ese same experts are 
y exist. However, the 
Dreamspeakers know that that is where those self-professed experts are very, 
very wrong. The world of spirit is as real as our own, and while many parts of 
it mirror our own (or the world we know in our heart instead of see with our 
eyes), many others are realms unto themselves, completely alien to the reality 
with which we are familiar. 
It was not always this way, of course. Once, the realms of spirit and flesh were 
one, and they knew each other as intimately as the two halves of a heartbeat. In 
those days, the Dreamspeakers were the wise men and shamans who spoke to 
these strange entities and used their secrets to help people and appease the 
spirits’ strange hungers. But with the rise of humanity’s reliance on technology 
and its growing skepticism of the old ways, the world was split in two. For the first 
time, the Dreamspeakers found themselves facing a cold barrier known as the 
Gauntlet whenever they tried to contact their spirit allies. It was a dark time 
indeed, and had they tried to weather the storm alone, the Dreamspeakers might 
not have survived at all. 
As it was, salvation did come, albeit as a blessing indisguise. Along with the 
decline in the ancient ways came the expansion of the Order of Hemes, and 
rather than war constantly with the different spiritual traditions they came 
across, the Order offered the spirit mystics a choice. The Dreamspeakers could 
join the Order under one banner, or face their decline alone. Spirit gateways and 
unseen messengers brought word from far and wide to the great council fires 
inviting the magicians to join the new Council. While some groups refused what 
they saw as a subordinate role, the others saw the wisdom in joining forces, and 
the Dreamspeaker Tradition was born. 
To this day, it remains one of the most diverse Traditions, represent- 
ing nearly every animistic culture around the world and many more that 
faded from mortal memory long ago. What unites these mages is their deep 
respect for the spirits around them, the Earth they defend and the ancient 
‘ I  heritage they embody. They threw themselves into the Ascension War 
with a passion, but seldom on the same battlegrounds as their peers. While 
, other mages battled to define the static reality of Earth, the Dreamspeakers 
acted as defenders and avengers for the spirit Realms. They sought to 
prevent the spread of Earthly corruption and keep the Umbra of their spirit 
elder gods to shades depar 
experts like to say that spir 
, 
: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


u 
allies as pure as possible. While they could not 
reverse the damage that was done when the Gaunt- 
* let arose, they did their best to keep the old beliefs 
alive in hopes that one day it would relax a bit, and 
y could once again experience the unseen 
eant that unfolds in the spirit worlds daily. 
As might be expected, then, the recent 
onset of the Avatar Storm has been a 
disastrous blow to these mages. The 
Dreamspeakers have relied on spirit 
quests and Umbral travel as part of 
their artsfor millennia, and the heavy 
* % toll and higher risks such travel now 
entails makes it difficult for them to 
maintain their old sacred places and 
rites as they once did. They are des- 
perate to find some solution to the 
problem as fast as possible, and sev- 
eral grand council meetings - 
the 
first such gatherings since the found- 
ing of the Tradition - 
have already 
been called along this line. Fortu- 
nately, the neopagan and other such 
movements of the past half century 
or 
so 
have 
provided 
the 
Dreamspeakers with a fresh base of 
support in their efforts, andquite a few 
heamspeaker Chantries that were falling into 
iin have been restored once again. This is a 
rucial time for the Tradition. If the 
heamspeakers can use the momentum behind 
his new infusion of interest to bring ancient 
jeliefs back into the modern consensual real- 
ty, they will have made a fantastic leap toward 
ichieving some of their goals. If they fail, 
Lowever, it may very well be the last such 
chance that many of these beliefs have. And 
the fate of the worlds both spirit and flesh 
depend on what this outcome will be. 
4 
L 
R~LEPLAYING 
HINTS 
Dreamspeakers and Verbena are alike in 
many ways: Both revere ancient practices, re- 
spect the sanctity of the Earth and its creatures 
and seek to preserve their traditions in the 
face of crippling modern attention. However, 
where the Verbena turn to the cycles of life and 
the natural world for their inspiration, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Dreamspeakers look beyond this world entirely and study the spiritual heart 
that beats underneath its skin. Their actions reflect this difference. While 
Verbena seek simple and direct solutions, the Dreamspeakers plead with or 
command spirits to bring about the changes they desire. They often have an 
air of otherworldly mystique to them, as if they have just gazed straight on 
at what you keep seeing out of the corner of your eye. They also tend to act 
with great deliberation since they are aware of the many levels of repercus- 
sions even the slightest actions might have on the unseen realms. Many also 
observe any number of small superstitions and other eccentricities, which 
stem from the very particular demands of the spirits they deal with. Some 
Dreamspeakers may refuse to wear a certain color, for example, or eat a 
certain type of food. Some even go to such extremes as talking backward 
re to spread a circle of 
Since they were nev 
roup to begin with, the 
Dreamspeakers have suffered greatly from a lack of communication in 
recent years. These days, it is difficult for them to find others of their kind 
at all, Even if they do find others, the diverse practices of the Tradition 
make learning from them a haphazard matter at best. Dreamspeaker 
libraries are nearly nonexistent as well since most of these groups rely on 
oral traditions. Dreamspeakers may not begin with more than two levels 
of either the Mentor or Library Backgrounds, and it is within the 
Storyteller’s discretion to ban those Traits entirely. Furthermore, while 
most other Traditions have an organized and unified structure, the 
Dreamspeakers are more a hodgepodge of spiritualists and shamans who 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


have been shoved into one category by the rest of the Traditions. A 
Dreamspeaker has one less Reputation Trait than his position would 
normally suggest, simply because a Dreamspeaker leader's authority isn't 
recognized as widely. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


occurs, the Euthanatoi argue that it is better to cut a thread and allow another 
a chance for the soul to start anew and hopefully avoid some of the same mistakes 
it made in this life. 
Naturally, this duty is not one to be taken lightly, and the Euthanatoi 
have developed over time what is known as the Thanatoic Code. This code 
is a series of rules governing whether it is appropriate to give a target the 
b Good Death or use some more subtle means of influence. A Euthanatos 
mage’s conduct is also monitored closely by his fellows, especially early in his 
career. Those who seem overly lax in their duties or who kill for personal 
pleasure or gain are brought into line or even given the Good Death 
~ themselves in extreme cases. 
e forced them to unite under a single banner, known then as the Chakravanti. 
f Open hostilities between the two Traditions have been a thing of the past 
for several centuries, but both still shoulder a good deal of antipathy toward 
each other. Sometimes this legacy haunts the modern Euthanatoi still, as 
they meet an Akashic Brother and suddenly see the enemy they once battled 
As fate would have it, however, these two Traditions are often called on to 
1 for several lifetimes. 
I : - 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Traditions have never been terribly good, either. 
Most mages are unnerved by the Euthanatos 
outlook on death, however carefully applied it 
may be in practice, and they find the nega- 
tive energies that the Euthanatos attract 
repellent. While they are valuable for their 
skill and their professionalism, Euthanatoi 
e seldom welcomed with real warmth 
by their fellows, which only makes 
their duty that much harder. 
Events of recent years have 
stretched even this resourceful Tra- 
dition to its limits. In addition to 
the many battles that the 
Euthanatoi faced during the As- 
cension War, the number of 
mundane problems and people 
involved in them have spiraled 
beyond the means of the 
Euthanatoi to influence as they 
would desire. Now, many 
Euthanatoi are confused as to 
what course of action they should 
follow. Some see the need for 
some massive event to bring bal- 
ance back to the Wheel and 
smooth the transition between 
lifetimes again. Others refuse to 
consider such drastic solutions, and they 
try instead to find key individuals to ma- 
nipulate in order to effect change on the 
masses. Conflict has not yet come to a head 
between proponents of these different view- 
1 points, but there is certainly a growing rift 
L within the Tradition. Initiates had best 
watch themselves carefully, lest they find 
that they have taken a side in a war they 
didn't even know was taking place. 
The Avatar Storm troubles the 
Euthanatoi deeply as well, for they see it as 
' 
a sign of a great disruption in the cycle of 
reincarnation. They would go to great 
lengths to find some way to end the fury of 
the storm. Ironically, the Euthanatoi con- 
sider themselves healers. The Good Death 
may seem a terrible and wicked tool, yet 
ultimately it is a scalpel one must use to end 
r 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


suffering. Where the world suffers under the weight of despair or horror, the 
Euthanatos cuts away the evil in hopes of bringing about something new. 
REEMPLAYING 
HINTS 
The Euthanatos mage takes on a heavy responsibility when he holds a life 
in his hands. Some would say that members of this Tradition are morally 
bankrupt, but the Euthanatos reply that at least they are taking a stand, when 
nobody else is willing to do so. As a rule, one can be sure when a Euthanatos 
makes a decision that she has examined the consequences carefully beforehand. 
The nature of their duty demands no less of them. 
As for personal comportment, most Euthanatoi actually do exhibit some 
degree of their legendary chilly aura, at least when they are carrying out their 
duty. Most Euthanatoi save their more passionate faces for close friends and 
family. People who do get to know a Euthanatos mage are typically surprised at 
the deeply thoughtful and often quite fun-loving streak that the mage exhibits. 
Euthanatoi are ext 
rs when they have the 
dships that last (quite 
seriously as they take 
usually several varieties of it. As a result, beginning characters receive two free 
Ability Traits to spend on Brawl, Firearms, Medicine or Melee. 
Tradition Disadvantage: Hands of Destruction 
All Euthanatos must maintain vigilance to avoid obtaining too much 
' 1  Entropic Resonance, lest they become mindless killing machines or little 
more than corpses themselves. A Euthanatos character must start the game 
esonance Trait:Jhor. A Euthanatos gains double the listed 
r his Entropic Resonance thereafter, so even a little 
I 
Resonance can cause the Euthanatos to suffer hideous social penalties. 
(More subtly, this flaw can encourage the Euthanatos to become a destruc- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


tive killing machine, with its combative advantages.) A Euthanatos with 
five Entropic Traits will be hunted down and executed by other Euthanatos, 
even if the Storyteller has to do it. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


organization has been responsible for as many infamous disasters either. The 
roots of this still-powerful society of mages stretch back to a fateful mixture of 
Egyptian rituals, Hebrew Kabbalah lore and the numerology of the early Greek 
philosophers, which produced a formulaic, precise and extremely powerful 
magic unlike any the world had ever seen. It was an attractive approach, 
especially compared to the fearful propitiation of inscrutable gods or touchy 
spirits that many other wizards practiced at the time, and the cult of Thrice- 
Great Hermes gained in power even as the societies that birthed it slid into 
decline. Eventually, the banner of the Order of Hermes could been seen flying 
over strongholds throughout Europe, the Mediterranean and even parts of 
northern Africa. 
Indeed, the greatest strength of the Order was that it expanded con- 
stantly, creating new Houses within itself to accommodate the various 
practices it came in contact with while still cataloging and codifying disparate 
styles to suit Hermetic tastes. During the Mythic Ages, the Order reigned 
supreme, battling agents of the Infernal and expanding the boundaries of 
magical knowledge. Hermetic mages sought such elusive goals as the 
philosopher’s stone, an elixir of immortality and even the means to bring the 
dead back from their rest. Peasants marveled and nobles bridled at the power 
of the Order, but none dared challenge it. 
Then the Artificers came. 
The Artificers - 
who were also known as the Order of Reason, and who 
would later become the Technocracy - 
represented the desire to take magic 
: : from the hands of the elite and give it to the masses as a whole. The Order of 
Hermes believed that doing so would lead to the destruction of the world at 
’ the hands of uncontrolled mystical forces. So began the Ascension War and 
~ 
the end of the Hermetics’ golden age. While the early contests were fierce, the 
Order was also riddled with infighting and other petty squabbles. These 
distractions took away from the Hermetic war effort, and the tide of battle 
2 ’ changed conclusively in favor of the Artificers. By the end of the Renaissance 
alone, Chantries were ruined, cabals were decimated, and entire Hermetic 
Houses had been destroyed. With the bitter defeat of the Order of Hermes 
. came the end of the consensual acceptance of magic, and that loss remains a 
I 
, I 
‘ 
, *a thorn in the Order’s side even today. 
a*& I ,  * 
1 - 1 .  
I ’  
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Fortunately, one of the last moves the unified Order 
made was to call the conclave that led to the establish- 
ment of the Council of Nine. In fact, most Hermetics 
are glad to recall this fact in the company of their fellow 
Tradition mages with no small amount of pride. Even 
now, the Order sees itself as the head of the resistance 
against the static reality of the Technocrats. It claims to 
guide the other Traditions so that they might best 
use their resources effectively. Naturally, this 
paternal attitude doesn't always endear 
Hermetics to their peers, but that's simply 
Unfortunately for the Order's collec- 
tive pride, the de facto end of the 
Ascension War and the losses it suffered 
during the genesis of the Avatar Storm 
have dealt another blow to the 
Tradition's good name. The Tradition 
has also suffered more than any other 
Tradition due to the subsequent disap- 
pearance of many of the more 
enlightened mages from Earth. Ad- 
vancement in the Order is a formal, 
hierarchical process. Initiates are 
trained in classes, rather like college 
students, and they must undergosev- 
era1 years of rigorous training before 
they are considered full members of 
the Tradition. From that point on, a 
mage's standing is a careful mix of 
Reputation, magical achievement and 
other factors such as Influence and 
important victories over Technocratic 
or Nephandic forces. What's more, it 
is virtually impossible for a Hermetic 
the price of leadership. 
to ignore the constantly shifting sea 
of alliances and rivalries within her ; 
Tradition, since it affectssuchthings 
as finding instruction and accessing i 
Nodes or other Traditionresources. : 
However, the recent loss of so 
many upper-echelon members has 
opened up the ranks in a way un- 
heard of in centuries. While all too 
1.. 
many younger mages are hurrying 
to set themselves up in the 
same pointless feuds as 
their elders, a growing 
"*'- 
* G ' ; ;  
j 
. 
2' 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


force within the Order seeks to use this upset to focus once more on what was 
supposed to be the goal of the Order all along. Now that the Young Turks have 
a chance to dictate policy for once, they hope to put the Order back on the track 
of bringing magic back to a world in dire need of its aid. 
RBLEPLAYING 
H I ~ S  
Hermetic magic is difficult, complex, precise and highly specialized, so the 
Order tends to attract mages of a similar disposition. While general practitioners 
or more relaxed wizards are not unheard of, most Hermetics focus intently on 
one or two areas, and their style of magic shifts accordingly to reflect this 
concentration. All Hermetics carry themselves with pride. This attitude is as 
much a function of the bonding Initiates experience surviving their intense 
training as it is a reflection of the glorious history of the Order. 
their personalities. The techno 
are typically hyperactive 
members of House Sh 
While exceptions cert 
House Flambeau. 
look conflicts too 
mon to most 
Hermetics includ 
berth. Hermetics 
re around lesser 
wizards or walk un 
' refresh one used Reputation Trait each game session. 
As aside effect of this heritage and the very traditional training methods the 
1 beginning characters receive a free level of the Occult 
ground and an extra Reputation Trait of their choice. Therefore, 
Hermetics are usually some of the most eager mages to pursue the Reputation 
ct their chances at advancement within their Tradition 
r game does not use the Reputation system very frequently, 
1 of the Occult Ability instead.) 
* 
isadvantage: Pride's Legacy 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Because of the Tradition’s long history of arrogant self-aggrandizement, 
all Hermetic mages receive the Negative Social Trait: Condescending when 
dealing with other mages and sorcerers. Even if the mage is personally a 
rather open-minded sort, people still consider him “one of those stuffy 
Hermetics.” For the sake of game balance, this penalty applies even if the 
character isn’t recognized widely as a Hermetic. Considering the fact that 
Hermetic training relies on developing one’s confidence and authority to 
such a degree that one can control reality, however, many Hermetics can’t 
help but deserve the Trait. 
House Janissmy - 
Enforc 
House Shaea - 
Students of the way 
reality, this House promotes education as 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


at the world knows as 
inspiration can literally make anything happen. “If it can be imagined, it can be 
achieved,” is a popular slogan these mages use, and they certainly have 
imagination to spare. Of course, some Etherite experiments can never seem to 
be duplicated by anyone except the Scientist who originated the theory, and 
tion that the experiments they are performing involve magic. While many 
Etherites incorporate a liberal amount of paraphysics into their theories, most 
believe that they are simply applying previously undiscovered scientific prin- 
ciples that are too bold or too arcane for most people to understand and/ or 
unacceptable for the Technocrats to release to the public. The idea that 
sufficiently advanced science might as well be magic, to paraphrase a noted 
Etherite sympathizer, is entirely lost on them. 
Despite their current high level of antipathy toward the Technocracy, the 
Technocracy until near the end of the 19th century, when they split from the 
Technocracy after a heated dispute over the nature of space and space 
exploration. To strengthen the Gauntlet and further isolate the Earth from 
- hostile alien entities, the Technocracy wished to reveal that space was cold, 
7s 
lifeless and inhospitable. This revelation would also debunk the idea that 
p* space was filled with breathable, easily traveled “ether” (an idea that was 
enjoying a great deal of popularity at the time). Furious that their fellows 
would take such a strong stand against exploration, the Etherites parted 
company with their colleagues and wound up joining the Tradition Council 
’ 
- *  limits of existing science and introducing doctrines that tweak the rigid rules 
that Technocratic science seeks to enforce. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


other fields of Science that the Sons pioneered have 
all been legitimized and accepted by the masses. 
The spread of these theories has certainly set more 
than one Technocrat to grinding their teeth in 
frustration as they work to undo the damage the 
Etherites have done to their tidy little paradigm. 
What's more, the advances they've made in space 
exploration have shown a surprising degree of 
effectiveness in coping with the results of 
Avatar Storm. Many Etherites 
have achieved a new degree of 
recognition among other Tradi- 
tion mages by providing the only 
way to safely reach the other side 
of the Gauntlet. Unfortunately, 
these same advances in both the 
magical and mundane worlds and 
the ignominy of their defection 
places the Etherites at the top 
of the Technocracy's hit list, 
followed closely by their fellow 
defectors, the Virtual Adepts. 
Both sides give little quarter when 
they come in conflict, and all Etherites 
would rather die than fall victim to 
Technocratic reprogramming. It re- 
mains to be seen whether they will 
survive to enjoy their newfound 
fame, or if it will merely bring them 
down. In either case, one can be 
sure that the Etherites will cause 
plenty of fireworks. 
" 
R~LEPLAYING 
HINTS 
Despite broad Tradition ste- 
reotypes, the vast majority of 
Etherites are not wild-eyed, 
white-haired professors who 
talk to themselves as they 
build their latest monster. 
While all Etherites are deeply 
passionate about Science and 
the fields they choose to study, 
Etherites come in as many 
varieties as mundane sci- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


venturing out into the field, testing new equipment and watching theories in 
practice. Others prefer the laboratory, where they can play in the realms of 
pure thought and harvest new ideas from the old. Still others like the largely 
thankless task of duplicating other's experiments, recording discoveries for 
posterity and otherwise making sure at least some cross-referencing of confus- 
ing Etherite theory is possible. No matter what capacity an Etherite chooses 
to represent herself in, that love of Science is always foremost. All Etherites 
~ develop a certain gleam in their eye or urgency in their voice when something 
related to their field comes up, and one can always count on them to enter such 
a discussion no matter what else they might have to do at the time. 
ab rats (literal or figurative) 
own pet theories and following 
sional communication between 
can they learn rotes from non-Sons of Ether. Learning from another Son of 
' 
Ether requires a successful Mental Challenge, with a difficulty equal to the 
~ 
~ 
rote's usual vulgar difficulty. Otherwise, the Etherite hasn't found a way to 
8 
incorporate the ally's Science into his personal studies, and he must wait to 
end of the next game. Such stubbornness is the price of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


---k----*- 
_- 
I 
ing mages take Science 
rld, They employ highly 
ir battles against mun. - r_ 
believe that the Digital Web is the next true frontier of humanity. They seek 
ceilsion through global 
" 
orers without equal, these mages brave the 
rch of new truths. They also have several 
f,the other Traditions. 
tax$torm, which have- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Like the Dreamspeakers, the V 
dition is one of the most ancient 
long before their actual Awakening. 
Ancient Verbena recognized and embraced the sacred fusion of the 
Avatar with mortal flesh, and they taught those tribes they lived with to do 
likewise. Their knowledge of life’s ebb and flow made them the first healers, 
and they passed on herbal remedies and other folklore, so that even un- 
Awakened people might learn to tend their own. While they recognized that 
death is as natural as life, the Verbena insisted that those who followed them 
take life only when necessary, and always with respect. Even then, their 
frankness about life’s functions and the reality of death earned them an 
uncertain reputation. They were often forced to join secret societies and 
retreat into hiding from the same people who begged them for their cures. 
Although they certainly didn’t like such furtive behavior, the Verbena 
accepted it as the price they had to pay in order to keep the knowledge of the 
Then came the fall of Rome, and the rise of the Catholic Church 
which told people that their natural urges were base and shameful, that 
their bodies were impure and untrustworthy, and that anyone who prac- 
‘ living world alive among the people they loved. 
with the Church and the governments that supported it for the next 
thousand years. They had to go deeper underground or face extinction in 
the witch-hunters’ bonfires. Many fled Earth entirely, waiting for a time 
when they could practice their arts in peace once more. Others disguised 
: their knowledge as simple woodlore or plain herbalism so as not to arouse 
ii 
any dangerous suspicions. Small groups survived in secrecy, maintaining 
‘ the old ways as best they could, but by the time of the Renaissance and later 
the occultism of the Victorian age many of these traditions had been lost 
to antiquity. Now, modern Verbena must often deal with frustrating gaps 
in the history and practices of their Tradition. While neopagan and New 
Age ideas have replaced some of these missing pieces, it has only been after 
great debate and dissent within the Tradition. 
Verbena are careful to make sure that their rites exceed what even the 
most fervent un-Awakened practitioners of similar crafts consider proper 
ceremony, if only to prove that their Tradition’s roots go deeper than the 
past half-century’s resurgence of interest. Fortunately, most of the old 
- 
6: 
, 
, 
I ‘ 
, 
1I‘L 
L t  
- l r  
1 -  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


faiths never died out entirely despite the 
best efforts of the Church, and the Ver- 
bena Tradition has maintained a small 
but extremely loyal following over the 
ages. Even now, most Verbena covens 
support a tight network of Sleeper 
acolytes and other helpers, which is 
often the most underestimated as- 
pect of their organization. 
fodern Verbena face a diffi- 
decision. Should they 
:inue practicing the old ways 
lest they know and risk stag- 
ting in the eyes of their 
unger followers, or should 
they incorporate new be- 
c 
liefsandpracticesatthe 
risk of alienating 
their older mem- 
1 
bers and losing 
sight of their roots? 
Balancing the two 
roved difficult, and there is 
3us little room for error ei- 
way, especially as the 
nocratic noose draws ever 
er. What's more, the exist- 
: of weapons of mass 
xction disturbs them far 
deeply than any other Tra- 
m. The Verbena have been 
ng the most driven advo- 
?s of removing these terrible 
ngs from the face of the 
trth at all costs, which has 
itted them against Iteration 
I( and the Progenitors in in- 
creasingly 
devastating 
confrontations. The Ver- 
bena know that the odds 
are against them in this 
fight, but they cannot sit 
idly by while such affronts 
1 to the river of life exist. If 
it costs them their lives to 
remove such monstrosities 
from the face of the Earth, 
then so be it. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


RCBLEPLAYING 
HINTS 
Like the animals they love and the seasons they serve, the Verbena are 
a curious mix of caution and directness, compassion and brutality. Most of 
all, they act as the needs of the situation require. When they choose to 
that balance is maintained. 
They have little time for pretension and civility. While they honor 
ancient rites of hospitality and they respect those who they feel deserve it, 
most Verbena delight in taking especially troublesome folks down a peg or 
two and revealing the primal urges civilization tries so hard to hide. Among 
their friends, they are consummate lovers and revelers who go to great 
lengths for those they trust, and they will always say what's on their mind, 
ure. Verbena are 
hat can't be denied. 
Due to their ancient ties with the cycle of death and rebirth, all Verbena 
receive a free level ofMedicine Ability. Furthermore, they receive afree level 
of the Survival Ability, since their knowledge of natural ways permits them 
* to fend for themselves more easily in the wild. (Naturally, this extra Trait 
stacks with their retest, so many Verbena follow pursuits in medical or 
wilderness careers.) 
Tradition Disadvantage: Rad Blood 
Verbena are well known for their habit of speaking freely about how 
they feel about their fellow Traditions, and they don't use any comfortable 
modern euphemisms to clean up descriptions of their practices. Since so 
other Traditions. Members of other Traditions consider the Verbena dis- 
, 
8' 
turbing and bloodthirsty. (The centuries of persecution known as the 
Burning Times have put quite a chip on many Verbena shoulders as well, 
. # 
which naturally only makes things worse.) 
e 
Verbena tend to unsettle even normal people, who just aren't comfort- 
I ' able with the Verbena's openness about topics like death, sexuality and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


bodily functions. A Verbena may acquire and use the Etiquette Ability, but 
he must expend two Etiquette Traits (instead of one) to cover for a social 
gaffe or faux pas. 
wisters ofFate-Usually regarded a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


While the other Traditions bicker about whose roots stretch back the 
farthest and how they will restore the mythic sensibilities of ages past to the 
modern world, the technological wizards and digital savants of the Virtual 
Adepts look to the horizon instead. They take the sterile technology of the 
Technocracy and give it the spirit it so desperately needs. As they see it, 
nothing is inherently wrong with science or technology, as the other Tradi- 
tions like to claim. Rather, it is how those tools are applied that makes them 
beneficial or destructive. 
Like the Sons of Ether, the Virtual Adepts began as a Convention of the 
Technocracy, known as the Difference Engineers. Using Babbage's difference 
engine, Lovelace's computational theory, Bell's long-distance technology and 
a whole lot of inspired theories of their own, these proto-Adepts were the 
pioneers responsible for devising new ways of gathering, storing and interpret- 
ing data for the rest of the Technocracy. As the 20th century progressed, 
however, the Adepts went farther and farther beyond their assigned sphere of 
influence. They got caught up in the excitement of discovery as they theorized 
the first virtual realities (earning their new moniker in the process), and they 
began working in earnest on their dream of bringing the world together 
through technology. Unfortunately, the Technocracy didn't see things their 
way. The other Conventions rejected the Adept's utopian vision for placing 
too much power in the hands of the masses, and they cracked down brutally 
on what they saw as a dangerous liability. 
Horrified that the Union would use such extreme measures against its own 
kind - 
and unwilling to give up the dream they had within their reach - 
the 
always-rebellious Adepts made a daring decision to defect. After stealing as 
much information and equipment as they could and leaving behind as many 
nasty surprises for their former allies as they could, the Adepts came to the 
Council of Nine and asked if it could use another faction in its war against the 
Technocracy's enforced static reality. 
As it happened, the struggling Council was in dire need of inside informa- 
tion with which to strike against the Technocratic juggernaut. It also needed a 
Tradition to take the seat of Correspondence, which had been vacant since the 
loss of the Ahl-i-Batin. While many members of the other Traditions still have 
trouble accepting the Adepts and their enthusiastic reliance on technology, no 
one can question the invaluable services the Adepts have performed since they 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


joined. As the recent Internet boom has testified, the idea of the Digital Web 
has an immense appeal to people in all sectors in society. Try as it might to 
regulate it, the Technocracy has still been unable to uproot the chaotic, anti- 
authoritarian sentiments the Adepts seeded throughout the Net and its culture. 
Indeed, the Ascension War would have ended several decades sooner without 
the Virtual Adepts’ defection. Even in the wake of that event, the Adepts 
continue to offer perhaps the best chance the Traditions have for keeping the 
Technocracy from gaining an absolute stranglehold on reality.. . if the other 
Traditions don’t choke the life out of the smug little bastards first, that is. 
Aside from the outstanding prices on their heads from the Technocracy, 
that hubris is perhaps the greatest problem facing this Tradition today. All 
mages must struggle to maintain some sense of humility once they learn of their 
talent for shaping the world, but events have been falling almost entirely in the 
Adepts’ favor lately. That being the case, they’re in danger of becoming victims 
of their own success. After the crash of the 
riginal Digital Web due to Sleeper over- 
load, many Adepts have become 
condescending and territorial. They’ve 
foregone their vision of spreading infor- 
mation and creating a digital Utopia in 
favor ofresolvingpetty grudges, ex- 
changing nasty viruses and 
engaging in other largely 
meaningless instances of . 
computer sabotage. 
’ 
They claim to despise 
the lowest-common- 
d e n o m i n a t o r  
attitude that they 
find in society, but 
their ownactions en- 
and vital informa- 
tion in a deluge of 
to demonstrate 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


their superiority over the Sleepers and all other travelers they find in their 
chosen domain. They have the potential to steal the technological future right 
out from under the Technocrats in the coming years, but it’s anyone’s guess 
whether the Adepts will finally mature and do so or simply fall into the same 
traps that undid so many other wizards before them. 
R~LEPLAYING 
HINTS 
On the Digital Web, differences like age, gender, race and social class 
disappear, and the only true measure of another person is their eloquence and 
their accomplishments. The Virtual Adepts likewise come from all ages and 
walks of life. For every stereotypical college dropout coding from the darkness 
of his parent’s basement, the Adepts count a university professor teaching a 
different kind of mathematics to his students or an intense metaphysician who 
uses computer code as mean 
altering the nature of the 
tive by mages of other Traditions, the Adepts thrive on contests of cleverness 
5 and ingenuity among their own kind. (So what if these contests often take the 
form of designing video games or other “frivolous” things?) More importantly, 
1 
Adepts who show some promise at this system of dares (namely people like 
players’ characters) receive unexpected software uploads or other anonymous 
‘ I  puzzles from their fellow Adepts. If the character is able to figure out how these 
‘ 
~ 
puzzles work, the solutions can give her insight into some problem she may be 
having in her own life as well. No one knows exactly how this process works, 
e the difference for some Adepts stuck on 
the past. However, some of the younger 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Adepts are really starting to wonder just how it is that these surprises are so well 
timed after all.. . . 
An Adept confronted with a riddle, puzzle or similar problem gains double 
the normal number of clues or amount of time other players get to solve it, 
depending on the nature of the puzzle. For instance, if a Storyteller asks a riddle 
and gives the players five minutes to come up with an answer, the Virtual Adept 
is allowed 10 minutes to think about it. This benefit reflects the fact that he’s 
probably either dealt with a similar puzzle in some form or received some tidbit 
of information previously that just happens to be useful right then. 
In less mysterious terms, however, all Adepts have one thing in common: 
a love of anything and everything computer-related. Therefore, starting 
Adepts begin with two free levels of the Computer Ability, and most purchase 
more on top of that. If any Adepts have ever complained of this narrow focus, 
no one else has heard of it yet. 
Tradition Disadvantage: Digital Despots 
Being the latest thing to hit the Traditions and the masterminds behind 
what’s now a global computer revolution, most Adepts have very little in the 
way of humility. They reinforce this condition constantly through their 
cynical evaluation of the millions of irritatingly clueless souls who now log 
onto the once exclusive Net everyday. All Adepts receive the Negative Social 
Trait: Obnoxious as a result when they deal with the subject of computers in 
any way. As a general rule, assume that the Negative Trait applies if the 
Computer Ability is necessary to challenge or understand a given conversation 
or practice. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Mention the Hollow Ones to most Tradition mages, and you'll get a 
disappointed sigh at best. At worst, you'll get a curse and a muttered 
invective about "those damn kids." Of course, it might be expecting too 
much to think that the Traditions would appreciate those who openly defy 
their ways like the Hollow Ones do. Plus, it can't be debated that the Hollow 
many of the things that the Traditions fight against. Where 
the Traditions fight to shape a better future of the world, the Hollow Ones 
believe that the world is already doomed, and they are determined to enjoy 
the decline as best they can. 
Everything else Tradition mages know about this renegade group of 
mages is more rumor and supposition than solid fact, which is one more 
reason that few trust the Hollow Ones much. What's more, even what little 
b is known is often frustratingly contradictory in nature. Although some of 
the more pretentious members like to say that Hollowers have been around 
in all times - 
fiddling as Rome burned and otherwise reveling in the 
darkness of society - 
more pragmatic Hollowers are not so cavalier. They 
point to the Romantic poetry and spiritualist movements of the Victorian 
era, the 1920s American flapper counterculture and the gothic-punk 
8 music underground of the '70s to find the roots of their grim society. Above 
i all, they are creatures of the modern age, for all the good and ill that 
description encompasses, and they delight in mentioning as much to any 
condescending Tradition mages or other authority figures who look down 
on their shadowed ways. 
Within this most loose of magical associations, Hollow Ones group them- 
* * selves by cliques, groups of friends and allies who look after each other. Unlike 
more formal cabals, some Hollow One cliques include not only Sleeper members 
but even other supernatural beings as vampires or ghosts as well. Even those 
cliques that don't do so more than likely have a good idea where to find the 
nearest member of that species. 
While Hollow Ones claim not to judge each other by petty societal 
1 
standards, clique rivalry can sometimes become as fierce as any other type 
* *  of conflict. Hollow Ones are more likely to come in conflict with each 
' other over who has rights to an exclusive nightclub or a prime graveyard 
more esoteric points of conflict, though. As their motley 
ight indicate, Hollowers take what they like and discard 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


nything else. It’s not uncommon to find a 
Hollow One who practices a nearly perfect 
imitation of Hermetic magic when command- 
ing the elements, does yoga for Life rotes, 
turns to a Ouija board for communing with 
spirits and then listens to custom music mixes 
to invoke his mind magic. In fact, it’s precisely 
this eclectic style that infuriates many of their 
re traditional counterparts. The Hollowers can 
mingly make anything magical, rather than 
st adhering to the limited range of things that 
ach Tradition preaches as the one true way. For 
their part, the Hollowers say that if it works for 
them, the others can just deal with it. 
I 
i 
RCBLEPLAYING 
H i m  
Let it be stated now, for the record. Hollow 
Ones are not all Goths in black lace and white 
face paint, nor are they all punks with mohawks 
out trashing the local mosh pit. Honestly, 
while those little conventions were cer- 
tainly fun in their heyday, they died out 
over adecade ago, you know? Hollowers 
place a lot of importance on style, and 
style is a function of expressing one- 
self and finding new and innovative 
I 
ways to present oneself, not simply 
cloning what’s on television. 
Perhaps the only definite overall trend 
one might notice among the Hollow Ones is a 
preference for dark colors. Outside of that, the 
mix of Victorian, Prohibition, punk, indus- 
trial, fetish and other fashions the Hollowers 
1 employ can literally dazzle the eye. Under- 
stand this drive for individuality, and you 
understand a lot more about the Hollow Ones’ 
sense of identity. Stilt, this loose group gets more 
than its fair share of new blood from those who grow 
in the Goth and industrial subcultures, and usually 
part of their fashion and style reflects it, be it a 
Fashion secrets aside, being a Hollow One really is 
more a mindset than anything else. While one needs not be 
perpetually depressed and cynical, Hollowers who dress in 
bright colors constantly, bring out the best in every- 
thing and otherwise focus on the lighter side of life 
will quickly be looking for other friends. The 
Pangloss view of the world is just not what the 
L 
I 
to quote Byron or a penchant for lacy shirts. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Hollowers are about. The world is dying, and nothing can change that. Why 
not relax a bit, indulge the passions that mean something (as opposed to the 
frantic need to accumulate possessions), and otherwise try to enjoy the ride? 
It’s a special sense of decadence and of liberty in the contemplation of 
destruction. If you don’t feel up to the task, then stay away from the shadows. 
Specialty Sphere: None 
Common Foci: Literally just about anything. However, some of the more 
common Hollower foci include: arcanology, blood, candles, crystals, dusty 
tomes, incense, music, neopagan texts, poetry, Ouija boards, seances, Victorian 
Tradition Advantage: Shadows Passing 
Inspired as they are by the darkest parts of the soul, Hollowers just 
naturally blend into the shadows wherever they go. While they are not 
the magical lifestyle. 
Tradition Disadvantage: Do 
lture based entirely on negativity takes 
s develop some form of depression over 
begin with), and some are so apathetic 
ons and their politics but simply waste 
on top of it. They fiddle away the 
keep from falling under anyone else’s 
ns to various drugs or other nasty 
their active nightlives. For despite 
ollowers are still very fragile spirits 
and they are not nearly as inured to the nightly horrors 
s they would like to believe. Typically, a Hollow One has 
ts: Docile, Lethargic, Condescending, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


an had to admit tha 
alisrs were riqhr... somethin9 was definitely wrong in the 
nd, Tiernan headed back t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


' 
a
1
 
In a Laws of Ascension game, the players act out roles as magicians who 
exist secretly amid Sleeper society. To ensure that everybody plays the game on 
common ground, though, the rules define the characters' particular parameters. 
That way, comparing characters and their limits or talents becomes a simple 
task. The rules in this chapter provide a descriptive means to build a character, 
both as a persona and as a set of defining qualities. 
STEP 
$NE: INSPIRATI~N 
You start the character-creation process with a simple choice of concept. Your 
mage was a person before he Awakened, after all, and he had goals and fears like 
everyone else. A good choice of concept helps you to figure out what Traits and 
characteristics may be appropriate to your mage based on the person he was before. 
Your concept probably boils down to a simple word that describes the essence 
of the character's personality: artist, teacher, bum, businesswoman or the like. Pick 
out a broad, general label that you can hang on the character easily. As you pick 
Traits and specifications later, your mage will take amore definite shape. For now, 
however, this concept gives you the basic foundation upon which to build. 
TRADTTICBN 
Once you've decided what sort of person your mage was, pick the kind of 
mage that he became. Mages take on apprentices and teach mystic practices in 
small groups that propagate their own styles and beliefs. Therefore, your mage 
likely studied with a Tradition whose beliefs already meshed with his own. A 
mage who favors dance and meditation would likely find common ground with 
the Cult of Ecstasy or the Akashic Brotherhood, while a maverick scientist 
would fit well with the Virtual Adepts or Sons of Ether. Of course, your mage 
might not ever have found a mentor with matching beliefs - 
and he can 
certainly rail against the stereotypes - 
but the character's choice of Tradition 
shapes how the mage practices magic and how other mages react to him. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


- 
Choose a concept 
- 
Choose a Tradition 
- 
Choose a Nature and Demeanor 
- 
Choose an Avatar Essence 
Step Two: Attributes - 
What are your basic capabilities? 
-Prioritize Attributes (seven primary, five secondary and three tertiary) 
- 
Choose Traits 
Step Three: Advantages --.What do you know? 
- 
Choose five Abilities 
- 
Choose seven Backgrounds 
Step Four: Last Touches - 
Fill in the details. 
- 
Assign Arete Trait (1) 
- 
Assign Willpower Traits (5) 
- 
Choose Resonance Trait (1) 
- 
Choose Negative Traits 
- 
Choose a derangement (if any) 
- 
Spend 5 (or more) Free Traits 
- 
Choose additional Spheres (4 more if 
The Tradition teaches a budding Apprentice the necessary tools to work magic 
and strive for improvement and Ascension. This foundation also determines the 
sorts of magic that the character studied most during his formative years, which leads 
in turn to his special proficiency with an individual Sphere. Lastly, a Tradition 
determines the sorts of mages that the individual may know, work with or struggle 
against. It influences the character’s political position in the society of mages. 
Of course, some mages are rarer than others. You may not find too many 
DreamspeakersinthemidstofdowntownNewYork, 
andyousimilarlywon’tseemany 
Virtual Adepts in the heart of the Amazon. That being the case, your Storyteller may 
restrict your choice of Tradition based upon the circumstances of the chronicle. 
Should you find that no Tradition seems to match the sort of magician you 
want to portray, you can always choose to be an Orphan - 
a mage who learned 
magic from some minor society or even taught himself. You could also play a 
Hollow One - 
a member of a loosely affiliated group of mages who share only 
a few common practices. of course, playing such a character also subjects you to 
the rigors of being outside normal mage society, and makes it more difficult to 
learn the Spheres. A mage without a Tradition doesn’t have hundreds of years 
of his predecessors’ study and experience to draw upon, after all. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ists are a study in personal discipline and zeal for war. 
Specialty Sphere: Mind 
Celestial Chorus-The 
Singers celebrate divinity through song a 
Specialty Sphere: Prime 
Cult ofEcstasy-The 
Seers transcend the barriers of time, space 
ortality through dance and exhausting pleasures- but only if they do 
se themselves in temptation and hedonism. 
rayer, but few agree on the true form of the divine. 
Specialty Sphere: Time 
Dreamspeakers - 
Around the world, many and varied naturalist 
tualists and shadans commune with the very Earth and struggle 
ive as belief in their holistic practices withers. 
seek to bring Balance and relieve suffering, even if doing so mea 
g the unrighteous or the doomed. 
pecialty Sphere: Enmopy 
Order of Hermes -The great Order descends from a thousand 
Specialty Sphere: Forces 
Sons of Ether - 
These scientists who reject 
spiration to cast-off technology or seek out vision 
a combination of brilliance and madness. 
Specialty Sphere: Matter 
Specialty Sphere: Correspondence 
Hollow Ones - 
Goth is dead and it’s doing fine, say the sou 
utcasts who have no place among the Traditions. They foresee the e 
world, but they anticipate it with a nihilistic sense of humor in 
ividual quests for identity and magic. 
Specialty Sphere: None 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Architect, Autocrat, Bon Vivant, Bravo, Caregiver, Celebrant, Child, 
Competitor, Conformist, Conniver, Curmudgeon, Deviant, Director, Fanatic, 
Gallant, Judge, Loner, Martyr, Masochist, Monster, Pedagogue, Penitent, Perfec- 
tionist, Rebel, Rogue, Survivor, Thrill-Seeker, Traditionalist, Trickster, Visionary 
NATURE AND DE~I-IEANCBR 
Just as a concept gives you a simple foundation for your character’s history, a set 
of personality Archetypes gives a quick and easy means to identify the character’s 
disposition. Each of the Archetypes listed here presents a pattern of behavior for a 
character, but this list certainly isn’t exhaustive. Storytellers can and should expand 
the list of Archetypes to give characters a broad range of personality traits. 
The character’s Nature represents his internal drives and desires. The 
Nature provides the strong formative elements of the personality, but it’s often 
hidden beneath the character’s outer actions. Since the Nature forms as a result 
of strong personal experiences, it’s a central part of the character that rarely 
changes, except as a result of extreme trauma. 
The character’s Demeanor, on the other hand, is the face that she presents 
to the world. The Demeanor is the means through which the character often 
expresses herself. Since few people are totally honest, even with themselves, most 
individuals’ Demeanors differ from their Natures. A character’s Demeanor may 
change with mood or circumstance, as the individual tries to fit into surrounding 
events, but many people have one Demeanor that they commonly resort to. 
AVATAR 
ESSENCE 
An Awakened mage struggles with his inner spirit in ways that few Sleepers 
comprehend. As the mage seeks enlightenment and Ascension, her very soul 
drives her in strange ways that are sometimes contrary to her personal desires and 
often mirrored through countless incarnations and legends. To some mages, this 
inner Avatar speaks and appears, making demands or cajoling the mage along 
the path to awareness. For others, the Avatar’s guidance is a subtle interplay of 
feelings, hunches, dreams and emotions. Every Awakened mage feels it to some 
degree, though, and the form of these compulsions stems from the Avatar’s 
Essence - 
the persona of the Avatar itself. 
Mages recognize four basic Avatar Essences: Dynamic, Pattern, Primordial 
and Questing. In theory, an Infinite Essence exists as some combination of these 
drives, but no modem mage has discovered such an Avatar. Regardless, each 
mage has a single driving Avatar with one Essence and one view of the cosmos. 
about renewal and rebirth. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


At this point, just pick one Essence for your mage’s Avatar. This choice 
determines the ultimate magical goals that the mage often feels compelled to pursue, 
and itplaysanimportantpartinSeekingsasthemagestrivesforgreaterenlightenment. 
A mage can be smart, strong or handsome, or perhaps a little closer to 
average, but he certainly isn’t bereft of the basics of humanity. Defining your 
character’s innate talents and limits is the purview of Attribute Traits. 
STEP TWQ: ATTRIBURS 
CHCBQSING 
ATTRIBUTES 
A character’s Attribute Traits describe a wide range of human g i b  and 
capabilities. Youcandecide whether your mage is physically adroit, mentally nimble 
or socially adept. Although few people excel in all fields, most mages stand out in one 
category or another. You should assign your mage’s Traits to highlight his aptitudes. 
Physical Attributes cover the range of muscle power, speed, fitness and 
general health. A character with few Physical Attributes is not very fast or 
strong, while a character with a high number of Physical Attributes has a good 
athletic build and sterling physical qualities. 
Social Attributes describe the character’s leadership skills, personality, 
appearance, speaking quality and his ability to interact with people. A character 
with few Social Attributes isn’t a very compelling speaker, and he doesn’t attract 
others easily. A character with many Social Attributes may possess a command- 
ing presence, a natural authority or an air of compelling sensuality. 
common sense, even in the absence of formal education or scientific training. 
Decide on the area in which you want your mage to be strongest and which 
areas will be closer to the average. Generally, eachcharacter has aslightly different 
Social Traits: Alluring, Begdng, Charismatic, Charming, C u m d n g  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


character, you pick Attribute Traits, as shown here and on p. 87. Each Trait 
represents a specific strength. Pick the adjectives that elaborate on the way your 
character should be presented. An astute, bookish professor may be more 
Knowkdgeabk and Rational than his wise-cracking companion, who is Ckver and 
Intuitive, but both have strong Mental Traits. 
Choose seven Traits in your primary Attribute category. Choose five Traits 
in your secondary category. Choose three in your tertiary category. You can 
choose the same Trait multiple times to reflect a character’s higher-than-usual 
aptitude in that particular area. 
STEP THREE: 
ADVANTAGES 
Since your mage probably had just as many life experiences as any more 
mundane person, it only makes sense that he has a comparable range of skills and 
capabilities. Just about everyone has some hobby, job or education, and this 
generalization applies to mages as well. Furthermore, a mage has various 
characteristics that normal humans don’t have. The Awakening brings with it 
an awareness of the universe that most people lack, not to mention the magical 
talent to reshape reality based on this enlightened awareness. All together, these 
characteristics are Advantages. They make up the special areas of learning or 
mystical heritage that have developed with experience or magical talent. 
Of course, there are many sorts of Advantages. Abilities represent learned 
and practiced capabilities that most people have. They represent natural talents, 
working skills and useful mundane knowledge. Backgrounds cover the mage’s 
connection to mundane or magical society, as well as some measures of the 
mage’s inherent magical power. The Spheres describe the mage’s knowledge of 
magical practice in different aspects of reality. Finally, Resonance elaborates on 
the personal, unique nature of the character’s magic. 
CHGBSING ABILEIES 
Pick any five Abilities that make sense for your character’s life history, 
training, Tradition and personal predilections. You can choose multiple levels 
of an Ability to show higher levels of skill. See the list of Abilities on p. 94 for 
complete descriptions of what the various Abilities do. 
ASSIGNING 
SPECIALTY 
SPHERES 
Each Tradition trains (some would say indoctrinates) its novices in the 
practice of its key Sphere. Since each Tradition has a heritage of study that 
covers one Sphere in great depth, Apprentices reap the benefits of that legacy 
of concentrated study. This base specialized Sphere is often easier for the mage t 
to improve and understand, simply because his fundamental studies were so ;- 
much more detailed and because the Tradition itself bases its magical practices ; 
Academics, Alertness, At 
Leadership, Linguistics, Medicine, Meditation, Me1 
Science, Stealth, Streetwise, Subterfuge, Survival 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


on principles that mesh well with that Sphere. Write down the first level of your 
Tradition’s specialty Sphere, as listed on the Tradition chart on p. 76. 
Furthermore, some Traditions’ factions teach variants on the Tradition’s base 
practices. If you decide to choose to make your character a member of a faction 
WithinhisTradition (see theTraditiondescriptions inChapterTwo), yougain the 
first level of the faction’s specialty Sphere as well as the first levelof theTradition’s 
specialty Sphere. This faction Sphere then becomes your mage’s specialty instead 
of the Tradition’s Sphere for purposes of Experience Trait costs. If you don’t pick 
a faction, or if your faction doesn’t have a different specialty, just note the 
Tradition specialty as your specialty Sphere for purposes of Experience Trait costs. 
Your mage’s mix of mortal and magical heritage gives her access to a wide 
range of social characteristics and mystical strengths known as the character’s 
Backgrounds. You can pick seven total Background Traits for your mage, 
although you can’t have more than five levels in any one Background, and your 
Storyteller will certainly want a good explanation for any Background that 
exceeds three Traits. See p. 102 for a full description of Backgrounds. 
CHGBSING 
BACKGRWNDS 
STEP FWR: LAST TCBUCHES 
After you’ve fleshed out your character’s various Attributes, Abilities, 
Tradition and Backgrounds, you can determine your mage’s Arete Traits, 
Willpower Traits, Negative Traits, derangements and Sphere levels. 
AR!€-rETRArrS 
The mage’s enlightenment, mystical insight and awareness of magic com- 
bine to form his Arete. A young Initiate most often has only a single Arete Trait, 
BACKGRCBUNDS 
ipl 
Allies -Normal 
human confederates and aides who can help you OUI 
Arcane - 
An unnatural tendency 
Avatar - 
The strength of your ma 
Contacts - 
Information sources and snitches. 
Destiny -A great task or fate that lies ahead and demands fulfillmeni 
Dream - 
Connection to the universe through the subconscious min 
and ability to access information through that link. 
Influence - 
Sway over normal Sleeper society in any number of area: 
including: Bureaucracy, Church, Finance, Health, High Society, Industry, Lega 
Media, Occult, Poke, Political, Street, Transportation, Underworldor Univo-sit 
Library - 
Access to records and information about magic. 
Mentor - 
An older (maybe) and wiser (hopefully) mage who helps an 
Node - 
Regular access to a place of mystical power. 
Resources - 
Money, holdings and possessions. 
Wonder - 
An item your mage owns that has magical propertie 
to the mage’s ability to store and channel magical energy naturally. 
educates you. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


representing the burst of fresh insight that characterizes the change from Sleeper 
to Awakened mage. With time, experience and Seekings, the mage can improve 
his rating in this Trait. 
Your mage’s Arete determines the success or failure of most of his spell 
Effects (see Chapter Four), as well as the limit of how much of the Spheres the 
character can comprehend. Your mage cannot learn a Sphere level above the 
character’s total Arete Traits. Therefore, a mage with only a single Arete Trait 
can learn only the first level of any of the Spheres. 
Unless you spend Free Traits at character creation, your mage starts the game 
with only a single Arete Trait. You cannot raise your Arete above three Traits by 
spending Free Traits, however. Further enlightenment comes only with experience. 
Mages have strong reserves of internal fortitude. Reshaping the cosmos 
demands nothing less. Willpower represents the resilience that allows the 
magician to overcome extreme hardship or continue to fight when all seems lost. 
Willpower determines a mage’s maximum number of Arete Traits, helps him 
resist extreme physical injury and lets him draw on deep reserves of strength 
when he is worn down. 
Your starting mage character has five permanent Willpower Traits. In play, 
you spend temporary Willpower Traits, which refresh themselves later to a 
maximum of your permanent rating. With experience, you can improve this 
rating to a maximum of 10 Willpower Traits. 
WILLP~WER 
TRAITS 
&S~NANCE TRAITS 
Each mage has an individual spin on magic that colors his Effects subtly when 
he performs them. These personal twists of magic show up as Resonance. Generally, 
a magical spell resonates with its creator’s individual characteristics, and a mage with 
a large amount of Resonance injects it ever more clearly into his Effects. 
Pick one Dynamic, Entropic or Static Resonance Trait when you begin play. 
You may gain additional Resonance Traits as the story unfolds. 
NEATWE TRAITS 
Your mage has some specific deficiency. Maybe she’s forgetful, or perhaps 
she is just small and weak. Perhaps these problems are natural, or maybe they 
stem from some accident or injury. In any case, these difficulties become 
Negative Traits. You don’t have to take any Negative Traits, they help to flesh 
out specific hindrances that your character suffers. 
In addition to giving you a means to describe a character’s minor problems and 
peccadilloes, Negative Traits provide extra opportunities to strengthen your char- 
acter elsewhere. EachNegative Trait that you take is g o d  for one Free Trait that you : 
may spend later. You can take up to a total of five Negative Traits, although you 
C 
shouldn’t take more than three Negative Traits in the same Attribute category. You 
usually shouldn’t take the same Negative Trait more than once either. 
While you can often make up new Attribute Traits to describe your character, 
youshouldstickto theNegativeTraitslistedhere. IfyouhaveaTrait that’snot listed, 
8 
other players won’t be able to invoke it in play because they won’t know it exists. 
Also, remember that youneed toroleplay yourcharacter’sNegativeTraits. Pick 
Traits that you think will be fun or challenging to portray, and that you can get across 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Negative Physical Traits: Clumsy, Cowurdly , Decrepit, Delicate, Doc 
Negative Social Traits: Bestial, Callous, Condescending, Dull, Feral, 
hastly, Meek, Nufve, Obnoxious, Repugnant, Shy, Tactless, Untrustworthy 
le, Flabby, Frail, Lame, Lethurgic, Puny, Sickly, Slow, Soft 
DERANGE~ENTS 
It's a simple fact of life that some people just don't see the world the way everyone 
else does. While mages certainly fit into this generalization, they usually continue to 
deal with day-to-day life in a fashion that most people would consider sensible given 
mages' unusual problems and powers. When someone suffers a serious mental disorder, 
though, ithasadeleteriouseffectonhisentirepersonality.Suchaproblem,beitasubtle 
twitch or a very noticeable psychosis, is known as a derangement. 
Taking a derangement grants you two additional Free Traits that count 
against your limit of five Negative Traits. Remember that taking derangements 
requires advanced roleplaying. A character with a derangement has specific 
personality problems and a very different outlook on living, all of which will 
I require you to think long and hard about how you present the mage. Talk to your 
Storyteller before you consider taking any derangement. 
Derangements are described in Chapter Five on p. 121. 
ou can customize your mage to some degree using Free Traits. Your Free 
= Traits can improve just about any facet of your character, so you can improve your 
If Abilities to represent a character with strong natural talent. You can also take 
a 
additional Abilities or even improve your mage's Advantages and Backgrounds. 
A starting mage character has five Free Traits. You also get additional Free 
One Free Trait buys an additional Ability Trait. 
At a cost of one Free Trait, you may take a specialization in an Ability that 
. 
* you already have (see p. 95 for information about specializations). Remember 
I "* that each Ability may have only one specialization. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


One Free Trait converts to an additional Background Trait, subject to 
Two Free Traits grants you an additional Arete Trait. You cannot raise 
Three Free Traits convert to an extra Willpower Trait, to a maximum of 
Three Free Traits allows you to learn the first level ofuny Sphere, subject 
Storyteller approval. 
that rating above a total of three Arete Traits in this manner, though. 
10 permanent Willpower Traits. 
to Storyteller approval. 
CHEBSING 
SPHERES 
Now that you’ve set down your mage’s Arete Traits, you can determine her 
knowledge of the various Spheres. If your mage just had one Tradition specialty 
Sphere, you get five additional levels of Spheres. Ifyour mage hadaTradition Sphere 
and a faction specialty Sphere, then you pick four additional Sphere levels. If your 
mage has no specialty Sphere, you can pick six levels of Spheres of your choice. 
Remember that no Sphere level can exceed your Arete Trait total. If you 
have only one Arete Trait, you can have only the first levels of the various 
Spheres. See Chapter Four for information about all of the Spheres. 
STEP FIVE: SPARK GF LIFE 
At the end of Step Four, your mage should have a list of Traits and 
capabilities. However, a good character isn’t just a collection of numbers and 
adjectives. Now it’s time to deepen the character’s story. Look into her motives, 
her history, her Awakening and the other details of her experience that turned 
her into the person she is today. 
History - 
Consider the mage’s pre-Awakening days. Did she have any 
special hopes and dreams that were inspired or dashed by the change? Does her family 
know of her powers, or does she even contact her family members any more? Where 
did she live, how did she grow up, and what sort of jobs and education has she had? 
Secrets -Come on, everyone has a few. Does your mage harbor a secret 
shame or desire?Does she regret what she’s become, or does she embrace it a little 
too passionately? Has she learned something better left buried, or does she 
4 
despise some aspect of her Tradition secretly? 
Motivation- Although all mages feel a call to pursue enlightenment, not 
every mage does so in the same way. For some, this pursuit takes the form of 
humanitarian action. For others, it’s a continued drive for personal goals. What 
makes your mage get up and go? Does she want to help other people Awaken, or 
would she protect them from that fate? Does she really believe in her Tradition’s 
dogma? Maybe she just moves as her fate takes her. Whatever form it takes, 
motivation is the push or pull that helps the character go places and do things. 
Appearance - 
How does your mage look? Is she disheveled and unkempt, 
or is she a shining gorgeous beauty? Does she have any distinctive features or 
1 1  
mannerisms? People remember the Hermetic who wears tweed or the Verbena with i!5m 
thedazzling tattoo andseductivewalk, sopickacouple offeatures that willstandout. 
Foci-Your 
mage’s foci are very important to her magical technique, even 
though you use no Traits to represent them. Without foci, your mage will be hard- 
pressed to perform even the slightest tricks. What foci does your mage favor? Pick , it?:- 
‘ - 
a special focus for each Sphere, and make sure to list the sorts of foci that your mage . 1, . 
I I ~  
Li 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


uses. Checkout the list in Chapter Four for ideas. You can match up your foci with 
your mage’s Abilities to get some hefty bonuses when casting spells. 
Quirks-Everyone has a few distinctive mannerisms. Your mage’s quirks can 
be anything from giving your adversaries the finger right before you escape to keeping 
pictures of cats on everything you own. A quirk can help distinguish you from an 
imposter, or you could try to copy someone else’s mannerisms should the need arise. 
ARCH~PES 
An Archetype describes a fundamental personality characteristic. The Arche- 
types provide specific examples of what motivates an individual. Naturally, most 
humans are sums of multiple (sometimes conflicting) drives, but the Archetypes 
represent the strongest, most visible or important part of a personality. A character’s 
Nature Archetype describes the individual’s inner drives and desires, while the 
Demeanor represents the face that the character presents to the world at large. 
Because it represents her most important and dearly held impulses, a 
character’s Nature provides insight into her plans and serves to reinforce her 
conviction. Should acharacter be affected by some sort ofmind-influencing power 
that violates her Nature, you gain an automatic free retest to resist that power by 
calling upon that Nature. Conversely, if someone guesses your character’s Nature 
and uses it in a challenge to convince your character to do something in line with 
that Nature, then you must risk an additional Trait in that challenge. 
In certain circumstances, a Storyteller may rule that you regain a Trait of 
Willpower if you perform some suitably arduous task in keeping with your 
Nature. This reward can be difficult to track or adjudicate fairly, though, so it 
doesn’t always apply. You won’t gain Willpower simply by spouting rhetoric or 
performing little acts that pay lip service to your Nature. It’s only by rediscov- 
ering your purpose through trials and exertions that you reaffirm your drive. 
Example: Ulfston, a mge with the Caregiver Nature, finds himself in a conflict 
with a Master of Mind who’s trying to invade hs psyche. Convinced that a certain child 
I has a strong destiny that must be avoided, the Master tries to force Ulfston to slaughter 
f that child. They mke achalknge, and Ulfston’splayer loses. However, Ulfston’splayer 
I announces thutheisahzleCaregiverwho wouldnevercommitsuchanatro~ousact. The 
tworetest, and Ulfstonwins. Heis abk tofightofftheMaster’scom mands...for now. 
Later, once Ulfston has dealt with the threat, he takes the child to his friend 
Anneke for help. Anneke says that she just doesn’t have the resources to take care 
of a child right now, but she can give him some money if he can look after the child. 
She makes a Social Challenge to convince Ulfston that this is the right thing to 
do. Furthermore, she ups the stakes by using Ulfston’sNature against him (“I know 
that you are a true Caregiver. You would never let this poor child down.”). 
Ulfston’s player must now bid an additional Social Trait. They test, and Ulfston 
loses. He realizes that he can’t simply leave the child alone, so he takes the child 
with him, bewildered as to how they’ll survive. He checks into a hotel for the 
6 moment and takes the child to get some food, then spends some time trying to 
figure out how to help educate and protect the orphan. Due to his concern and care 
(which takes a great deal of time and effort), the Storyteller rules that Ulfston 
reinforces his Caregiver Nature, and regains a Trait of Willpower. 
Architect - 
You hope to leave a lasting legacy, a spark of inspiration or 
change that passes down through the ages. 
6 
as 
: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Autocrat - 
You take charge, either to impose order or to foment chaos. 
Bon Vivant - 
Sybaritic pleasures and temptations are your stock in trade. 
Bravo -You 
whip others into shape by force of strength or personality. 
Caregiver -The gifts of Awakening allow you to help the needy and 
Celebrant - 
Awakening has only strengthened your ebullient spirit. 
Child-Youarenafve and dependent, either by choice or by lack of experience. 
Competitor - 
You strive to come out on top in any circumstances. 
Conformist-Nosensebuchg authority; you follow trends andsupport leaders. 
Conniver - 
Why work for something when you can get it more easily 
Curmudgeon - 
The world’s gone to hell, and you want nothing more 
Deviant - 
You’re so far outside the norm, you can’t even spot “normal” 
Director - 
Orderly structures and predictable hierarchies make life 
Fanatic - 
Some cause or passion calls to you and drives you to the limits 
Gallant - 
You love to be the center of attention, and you make sure 
Judge - 
Separating truth from falsehood and justice from anarchy is your 
Loner - 
Even among a crowd of people you feel alone. 
Martyr - 
You’ll give of yourself until there’s nothing left out of a morbid 
Masochist - 
You inflict pain upon yourself to test your limits or out of 
Monster - 
You are the evil that stalks the nights. 
Pedagogue -Not only do you know a lot about everything, you’re more 
Penitent - 
You feel a need to atone for some real or imagined slight. 
Perfectionist - 
Good just isn’t good enough for you. 
Rebel -Tear down the system before it swallows you up. Don’t succumb 
Rogue- 
You’ll get what’s yours however you can. The onlyrule is to look 
Survivor - 
Nothing can keep you down for long. 
Thrill-Seeker - 
Life is just the search for the next big thrill. 
Traditionalist - 
The old ways must be good ways, or they wouldn’t have 
Trickster -The only way to deal with the world is to recognize life as the 
1 
Visionary - 
The distant hopes and dreams of tomorrow fill your mind 
the weak. 
some other way? 
than to bitch about it. 
with a telescope. 
simpler and prosperity easier to achieve. 
of your endurance. 
everyone knows it. 
difficult quest. 
self-chastisement or true altruism. 
some twisted need. 
than happy to share. And share. And share. 
to the stifling conformity of society! 
out for yourself. 
lasted so long. 
great joke that it is. 
with wonder. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


AVATAR 
ESSENCES 
In a flash of insight, a mage Awakens to a wider universe. In this moment, the 
Avatar stirs and becomes the connection between a mage and the Tapestry. A 
mage works magic through his Avatar, and the Avatar holds memories and drives 
from many former incarnations. It also connects the mage to Resonance from age- 
old spells and memories of legendary times past. A mage’s Avatar guides him with 
subtle emotions, shocking visions or blatant spiritual manifestations. 
It is widely believed that the Avatar guides the mage throughout his magical 
growth toward eventual Ascension. However, not all Avatars are equal. Some 
have stronger drives, some have very individual motives, and some are satisfied 
only if the mage overcomes deep personal difficulties or fulfills dangerous quests. 
Ultimately the Avatar’s essential drive, determines how it interacts with the 
mage and to what ends it drives him. 
Of course, the Avatar -be 
it soul, spirit, guardian angel, subconscious 
desire, whatever - 
rarely interacts directly with a mage. Only a rare few mages 
have Avatars that make themselves known deliberately. For most mages, the 
Avatar appears in dreams and sudden intuitive hunches or emotions. 
In game terms, the Avatar Essence describes the Avatar’s goals and methods. 
Each mage has one Avatar Essence, which in turn shows the Avatar’s specific 
relation to the cosmos. Typically, this Essence becomes most clear during Seekings 
(see p. 122). When a mage undergoes a Seeking, a Quiet or some other highly 
charged encounter with the Avatar, the Essence makes itself evident. 
An Avatar’s Essence determines in part the requirements of a Seeking. 
Although a Seeking often forces a mage to confront unexplored or unsavory 
elements of his personality in order to achieve a more enlightened understanding of 
himself, the requirements of his Avatar’s Essence always surface in a Seeking as well. 
’ 
The four known Essences are: 
DYNAr€IIC ESSENCE 
Your Avatar strivesfor changeat all times. It delights inallmanner ofrandom, 
whirling, creative exploration, be it increating new things, coming up withunique 
ideas or just pushing you to experience things you’ve never done before. 
When you engage in a Seeking, your Avatar requires you to have done 
something totally new. If you haven’t had a new experience or learned some- 
thing completely new since your last Seeking (such as a new Ability, for 
instance), then you will not be able to satisfy the impulses of this Essence. 
Your Avatar desires to reinforce existing structures or build up coherent 
models. You find yourself drawn to the beauty in order, and you are sometimes 
compelled to defend or elaborate on known principles and beliefs. 
When you engage in a Seeking, you must somehow reinforce an existing 
structure. You can do so in any number of ways, including helping to raise a 
building, elaborating on a scientific theory or improving one of your own areas 
ofknowledge (such as by gaining new levels in an Ability that you already have). 
Your Avatar springs from the original, primordial soup of Creation. Therefore, 
this Essence revels in death, rebirth and the bubbling chaos of beginnings and endings. 
I ‘ 
: . ~lUlTICI3RDIAL‘kENCE 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


When you engage in a Seeking, you must have tom down something old to 
create something new. You might have to destroy an old bureaucracy, tear down 
an ancient tradition or rediscover some fundamental principle of existence 
(such as by remaking yourself through an improvement in your Attributes). 
@JESTING ESSENCE 
Your Avatar pushes you toward distant goals, and builds upon past experi- 
ences to raise you to new heights. You find yourself pursuing accomplishment at 
all times and learning from old tasks. 
When you engage in a Seeking, you must have built on some previous 
experience to accomplish something. You may have to redo an old task using 
knowledge that you’ve mastered, but you may have to perform it on some larger 
scale that requires a great depth of proficiency. (Gaining a specialization in an 
Ability is one way to represent such a goal.) 
ATTRIBUTES 
[BIDDING TRAITS] 
Representing your character’s innate capabilities is the purview of Attributes. 
These Traits are natural to the character, and although they can be improved with 
practice and exercise, they’re not trained or learned capabilities. They’re simply 
a measure of raw performance. You call upon your Attributes to accomplish tasks 
and determine your inborn human gifts. The more Attribute Traits you have, the 
better you are in an area. With lots of Physical Traits, for instance, you’re very 
strong and fast and tough, and you’re better able to perform physical feats. 
When you find yourself in a challenge situation during game play, you use 
Attributes as a means to resolve it. For instance, you might need to use your 
brains to solve a complex ancient riddle posed by an adversary. You would use 
a Mental Trait such as Clever to initiate the challenge, showing that your 
character is using his wits to overcome his opponent. The type of Trait you use 
depends on the type of challenge, of course. Being strong doesn’t help you solve 
riddles, but it would be useful in aclose-quarters fight. Having agood appearance 
and a magnetic personality is great for impressing new acquaintances, but it 
won’t help you evade a kick in the crotch. 
The specific nature of the challenge further limits what Traits within one 
Attribute category apply. When you want to break down a door, you use a 
Brawny Trait or other Strength-related Trait, not Quick or Dexterous. Similarly, 
you would want to be Dignified or Elegant at a gala social event, not Intimldating 
or Ingratiating. However, you can use any Trait that you and the challengers 
mutually agree are appropriate. You should try to pick Traits that are descriptive 
of what you’re doing, though. 
When you enter a challenge with a Trait, you risk some of your capabilities. 
If you lose the challenge, you’ll get tired or discouraged, you’ll use up some of your 
tricks, or you’ll just become too fatigued to care. As a result, you temporarily lose 
that Trait that you bid. This lost Trait doesn’t retum until the next game session. 
Sometimes you’ll enter a challenge “Traits up” or “Traits down.” If you are 
Traits down when enteringchallenges, then you must risk additional Traits just to 
make a test (before taking Negative Traits into account), and you lose them all 
if you fail that challenge. Conversely, you could be Traits up or down on the 
resolution of a challenge. In this case, you count as having additional or fewer 
Traits when you compare Trait totals in the event of a tied test or an overbid. 
‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Trait listings that follow include some run-downs of what Traits are 
appropriate for certain types of challenges. You can ignore them if you desire, 
since some weird situations may make different Traits appropriate for certain 
types of challenges. Ideally, though, you should bid Traits from categories 
appropriate to the challenge at hand. Doing so helps to describe the action and 
give you a feel for the different ways that characters handle problems. 
New players may simply use a pool of generic Traits, just to speed play. 
Eventually, when they get the hang of things, you can help them to pick out 
more specific Traits that are appropriate to the action. 
See Chapter Five for descriptionsandexampleiofhow t o w  Attributes inchallenges. 
PHYSICAL TRAITS 
Strength-related: Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry 
Dexterity-related: Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick 
Stamina-related: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tireless 
Miscellaneous Physical: &le, Brutal, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigorous 
Agile: You have a well-honed and flexible body. You can bend, twist, run 
Uses: Acrobatics. Athletics. Competitive events. Dodging. 
Brawny: Bulky and strong. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict 
Brutal: You are capable of taking nearly any action to survive. 
Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy. 
Dexterous: General adroit and skillful in the use of one’s hands. 
Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or F i r m ) .  Pick-pocketing. Punching. 
Enduring: Persistently sturdy against physical opposition. 
Uses: When your survival 1s at stake, this Trait is a good one to risk as a 
Energetic: You have apowerful force ofspirit. Astrong internal drive propels you, 
Uses: Combat. Athletics. 
and jump with ease. 
damage. Power-lifting. All feats of strength. 
second or successive bid. 
and you can draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal in physical situations. 
Ferocious: Possessed of brutal intensity and extreme physical determination. 
Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. 
Graceful: Controlled and balanced in the motion and use of the entire body. 
Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance. 
Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness. 
Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging and dancing. 
Nimble: Able to make light and skillful movements. 
Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. 
Quick: You can react to a situation with fast, coordinated movements. 
Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking. 
Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly 
Uses: Surviving inadverseenvironments. Defendingagainstdamageinanattack. 
from bodily harm. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage. 
Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions 
Rugged: Hardy and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and pain to 
Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you enter while injured. 
Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition. 
Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against ovenvhelm- 
Steady: More than simply physically dependable. You are controlled, 
Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in atypical environments. 
Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will. 
Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge. 
Tireless: You have a runner's stamina, and you are less taxed by physical 
Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical 
Tough: You have aharsh, aggressive attitude, and you are reluctant to submit. 
Uses: Whenever you're wounded. 
Vigorous: Your efforts combine energy, power, intensity and resistance to harm. 
Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you're on the defensive. 
Wiry: Possessed of tight, streamlined muscular strength. 
Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat. Acrobatic movements. 
that could take place over a period of time. 
continue struggling. 
ing odds or a superior foe. 
unfaltering and balanced. You have firm mastery over your physical skills. 
efforts than ordinary people are. 
Challenge with the same foe or foes. 
___ 
Endurance lifting. 
N ~ T I V E  
PHYSICAL 
TRAITS 
Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are prone 
to stumbling and dropping objects. 
Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving your own neck is all that is 
important. You might even flee when you have the upper hand, just out of habit. 
Decrepit: Youmoveandactas ifyouareoldand infinnYourecoverfromphysica1 
damage slowly, you are unable to apply full muscular strength, and you tire easily. 
Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are damaged easily by physical harm. 
Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits. You lack 
physical persistence, and you tend to submit rather than fighting long battles. 
Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your strength 
well when you need to. 
Frail: You are fragile and easily broken. You always come out of a fight * 
looking like you got the worst of it - 
even if you didn't. 
Lame: One or more limbs is disabled. The handicap can be as obvious as a 
missing leg or as subtle as a dysfunctional arm. 
Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or motivation. 
Puny: You are small and weak. 
Sickly: Your body responds to physical stress as anyone else's would in the 
throes of a debilitating illness. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Slow: The opposite of the Quick and Nimble Traits. You lack muscular 
Soft: You lack the physical strength to carry out arduous tasks. 
coordination, and you are always half a beat behind the rest. 
SKIAT3 TRAITS 
Charisma-related: Charrismtic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Genial 
Manipulation-related: Beguiling, Cummanding, hgr&ng, 
Expesive, Persuasive 
Appearance-related: Alluring, Elegant, GoTgeowi, Magnetic, Seductive 
Miscellanmus Social: DipLrmaric, E@k, 
F e m s m ,  F d y ,  ~
~
n
g
,
 
Witty 
Alluring: You have an attractive and appealing presence that inspires 
Uses: Seduction. Convincing others. 
Beguiling: You can twist perceptions and lead others to believe what suits you. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. 
Charismatic: You have a talent for inspiration and motivation, the sign of 
Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leadership. 
Charming: Your speech and actions make you attractive and appealing. 
Uses: Convincing. Persuading. 
Commanding: Your delivery of orders and suggestions is impressive. 
Uses: When you are seen as a leader. 
Dignified: Something about your posture and body carriage appears hon- 
Uses: Defending against Social Challenges. 
Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are 
Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations. 
Elegant: Refined and tasteful. Even though you don’t need money to be 
Uses: High society parties. Might be important in some Traditions for 
Eloquent: You can speak in an interesting and convincing manner. 
Uses Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Speaking in front of crowds. 
Empathetic: You are able to identify and understand the emotions and 
Uses: Gauging the feelings of others. 
Expressive: Able to articulate thoughts in interesting, meaningful ways. 
Uses: Producing art of any kind. Acting. Performing. Any social situation 
Fearsome: You have an air of menace that can frighten or impress others. 
Uses: Intimidation. Social Challenges when you must put forward the 
Friendly: Able to fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short 
Uses: Convincing others. 
desire in others. 
a strong leader. 
orable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well. 
displeased with what you say or do. 
elegant, you exude an air of wealth and high society. 
advancement. Defending against Social Challenges. 
moods of people with whom you come in contact. 
is ’ 
f 
in which you want someone to understand your meaning. 
appearance of strength. 
1) e conversation, most find it difficult to dislike you. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Genial: Cordial, kindly and warm. You are pleasing to be around. 
Uses: Mingling at parties. Generally used in a second or later Social 
Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body that 
Uses: Modeling, posing. 
Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor or people who know you. 
Uses:DealingwithMastersinasocialsituation.DefendingagainstSocialChallenges. 
Intimidating: You have a frightening or awesome presence that causes others 
to feel timid. This Trait is particularly useful when attempting to cow opponents. 
Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering people around. 
Magnetic: People feel drawn to you. People around you are interested in 
Uses: Seduction. First impressions. 
Persuasive: Able to propose believable, convincing and correct arguments 
Uses: Persuading or convincing others. 
Seductive: Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and your 
Uses: Subterfuge, seduction. 
Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes come easily to you, and people consider 
Challenge with someone. 
most people adore. 
your speech and actions. 
and requests. Very useful when someone else is undecided on an issue. 
body to get what you want from others. 
you a funny person when you want them to. 
Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting someone. 
N ~ T N E  
SKIAL TRAITS 
Bestial: You have features that some would consider animalistic. Maybe 
you have reflective eyes, thickly ragged hair or pronounced teeth. Whatever the 
case, you certainly seem a bit inhuman. 
Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffering of others. 
Condescending: You just can’t help it. Your contempt for others is 
impossible to hide. 
Dull: Those with whom you speak usually find you boring and uninterest- 
ing. Conversing with you is a chore. 
Feral: You have uncivilized, animalistic behaviors, such as scratching at 
yourself or sniffing people. 
Ghastly: Your shockingly frightful or dreadful visage unsettles everyone 
around you. 
Meek: It is difficult for you to make your presence known, and you are often 
overlooked for honors or advancement. Further, your mild nature makes it 
difficult for you to enter combats. You often hesitate before acting. 
Naive: You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication or maturity that 
most carry. 
Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or appearance. 
Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around you. Needless to 
Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant. 
say, you make a terrible first impression with strangers. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others find appropriate to 
Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be unreliable, regardless 
of whether you really are. 
Perception-related: Attentwe, Discerning, Insightful, Observant, Vigilant 
Intelligence-related: Cunning, Disciplined, Knowledgeable, Rational, RejIective 
Wits-related: Alert, Clever, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily 
Miscellaneous Mental: Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Flexible, Patient, Wise 
Alert: Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly when it occurs. 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Defending against Mind. 
Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. When 
Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Seeing through supernatural conceal- 
Clever: Quick-witted and resourceful. You think well on your feet. 
Uses: Using a Mental Challenge against an opponent. 
Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative, which implies an ability 
to produce unusual solutions to your difficulties. You can create artistic works. 
A requirement for any true artist. 
Uses: Defending against Prime. Creating anything. Dynamic magic. 
Cunning: Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity. 
Uses: Tricking others. 
Dedicated: You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of your 
Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. 
Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully committed. 
something extraordinary happens, you are usually ready for it. 
ment when you don't expect it. Preventing Mind magic. 
causes is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed. 
Uses: Sensory magic. Investigating and tracking. 
Flexible: You change your thinking to accommodate the situation at hand. 
It's difficult to catch you by surprise because you are adaptable. 
Uses: Investigation (but not defending against it). Prime or Spirit magic. 
Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you without 
Uses: Spontaneous deduction. Spirit magic. 
I ' . conscious reasoning. 
' I A D  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Knowledgeable: You know copious and detailed amounts of information 
Uses: Mind magic. Remembering information your character might know. 
Observant: You have the depth of vision to look at something and pickout 
Uses: Sensory magic. Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. 
Patient: Tolerant, persevering and steadfast. You can wait out extended 
Uses: Staredowns or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. 
Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your ability to 
reduce concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world. 
Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Defending 
against aura reading and Resonance sensing. Technomancy. 
Reflective: Meditative in self-recollection and deep thought. The Trait of the 
serious thinker, Refkctiw enables you to consider all aspects of aconundrum thoroughly. 
Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending against most 
Mental Challenges. 
Shrewd: Astute and artful, able to keep your wits about you and accomplish 
mental feats with efficiency and finesse. 
Uses: Defending against mental powers. 
Vigilant: Watchful. You have the disposition of a guard dog, and you don’t 
miss much. 
Uses: Defending against investigation. Seeing through supernatural persuasion 
andconcealment. Sensory magic. More appropriate for mental defense than for attack. 
Wily: Sly and full of guile. Because you are wily, you can trick your 
opponents easily. 
Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing mental situations. 
Wise: You have an overall understanding of the way the world works. 
Uses:Givingadvice. DqxnsingsnippetsofZen. Understanding Akashic Brothers. 
Deceitful: Occasional white lies, minor adjustments to the facts and 
misleading others all seem like second nature to you. 
Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things. 
Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled. 
Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed on almost every subject. 
Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You want 
Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You’d be lucky if you noticed an 
Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers 
Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial. 
Squeamish: You have difficulty coping with the brutality of a world in 
Submissive: Yourelentandsurrenderatanycostratherthanstandupforyourself. ,‘. 
about a wide variety of topics. This Trait represents “book-learning.” 
its most relevant and important details. 
delays with composure. 
NEGATIVE ENTAL TRAITS 
everything to go your way immediately. 
airplane landing in your living room. 
can figure out what you intend to do next. 
I 
, r,’. , 
which everything is dirty, foul or uncomfortable. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Unstable: Your mind is constantly teetering on the edge, and anything 
Violent: You lack self-control, and you fly into rages at the slightest provocation. 
Witless: Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Foolish and 
could upset the careful balancing act. 
slow to act when threatened. 
ABILKIES 
Studious education, intensive training and finely honed instinct contribute 
to a character's various Abilities. Ability Traits represent capabilities that a 
character might learn or develop. They aren't necessarily innate to human 
nature, but rather they stem from study and practice study. With the right 
Abilities, a character can perform various sorts of difficult tasks, and he has a 
better chance of success even with mundane problems. 
Ifyourcharacterfailsachallenge,you~useanAbili~foraretestand~ 
tosnatch 
victory from the jaws of defeat. You use up the Ability Trait until the next game session 
(you exhaust part of your repertoire of tricks), and you still lose the initial Attribute 
Trait(s) you bid for the challenge, but you may be able to win the challenge itself. 
Multiple levels of Abilities reflect a character's growing competence. Few 
people exceed three levels of any Ability. Such dedication and professional skill 
doesn't come easily, and many people simply don't have the necessary talent and 
dedication. Even most mages can't exceed the limits of human knowledge, 
which peaks at five levels of Ability. The total level of Ability in a given field 
corresponds roughly to the character's professional capabilities: 
Competent (Able to earn a living) 
Professional (Licensed, capable of supervision) 
Journeyman (Bachelor's degree or instructor) 
Expert (Master's degree or researcher) 
Master (Doctorate or true innovator) 
Because of the highly skilled nature of some fields, certain tasks may be 
impossible without a given Ability. In such a case, a character without the 
' requisite Ability, or who has used up all of his levels of that Ability for the 
session, cannot even attempt the feat. Usually, though, attempting a task based 
on a prerequisite Ability does not use up an available Trait. Only using the 
Ability for a retest exhausts it. 
If you use an Ability for a set problem or scenario (such as trying to hack a 
computer with the Computer Ability), the Storyteller sets the difficulty of the task 
in question. Such a task is usually a Static Challenge, and it often requires that you 
' bid a Trait or sometimes multiple Traits. You may or may not know the difficulty 
beforehand, but such is the riskofdiving headlong into difficult or dangerous tasks. 
Should you use an Ability in a challenge against another player, the Ability 
may have certain special characteristics, as described on the following pages. See 
Chapter Five for examples of using Abilities in challenges. 
% 
~ 
fbCUSED &ILITIES 
Learning some Abilities requires concentrated study in particular areas. 
One cannot simply study all forms of Crafts, for instance. That's just too broad 
a subject. In such a case, you must pick a focus for the Ability. Each such focus 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


is considered a separate Ability, so Academics: Art History is distinct from 
Academics: Theology. You don’t add the total levels you have in every Ability, 
but you could have up to five levels in each focused Ability. 
This rule functions only if you’re willing to put up with a little ex 
paperwork on your charucter’s Abilities and you feel comfortable coming up 
specifications that aren’t too broad ur too narrow. 
Dedicated practitioners often develop highly concentrated ski1 
certain facets of that Ability to greater effect. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Academics 
You possess a level of education and general knowledge beyond rudimen- 
tary schooling. With Academics, you can express artistic criticism, debate the 
classics, consider philosophy and indulge in studies of culture. This broad 
Ability covers the humanities in learning. 
Academics allows you to recognize historical, artistic and cultural refer- 
ences. You can use Academics when working in such fields, when developing a 
critique or when researching. Calling on the Academics Ability may require a 
Mental or Social Challenge to determine your exact level of competence. 
You should choose a focus in a specific field of Amhics, such as LiterahL.r, 
Phhsophy, Mu.skAppreciationor anything that could be studied with a higher education. 
Alertness 
You pay attention to your surroundings. Even if your senses aren’t particu- 
larly good, you know enough to put together clues and scrutinize things going 
on around you. 
You use Alertness in conjunction with your Perception-related Mental 
Traits to notice sounds, detect things that are out of place and spot concealed 
objects or people. 
When you’re surprised (see p. 193), you may spend one level of Alertness to 
negate the surprise penalty and act normally instead. 
Athletics 
Whether due to a background in sports or just personal talent, you are skilled in 
all manner of athletic endeavors. You can throw a ball, sprint, climb, jump and swim. 
Your Athletics Ability applies to retests on most forms of raw physical activity 
including: acrobatics, swimming, jumping, throwing, climbing and running. You 
may choose to focus on one sport or activity. Use Athletics in conjunction with 
thrown or hand-propelled weapons like bows and hurled knives. 
Awareness 
You have a talent for knowing when things are not as they should be, whether 
by that strange feeling in the pit of your gut or through tested observation. This 
Ability is particularly useful for sensing when other supernatural creatures are 
about, detecting evidence of strange magical phenomena, or just getting that 
weird feeling when the laws of nature are about to take a hard left. 
Awareness challenges usually pit your Mental Traits against a Static 
Challenge determined by a Narrator. If someone performs a magical Effect with 
no visible result, you can call for an Awareness challenge with a difficulty of six 
Traits minus the Effect’s casting difficulty before modifiers (minimum zero for 
a really big Effect). If you succeed, you know that something magical happened, 
although you don’t necessarily know what it was. Actually figuring out the 
properties of something magical may require other Abilities such as Occult. 
Brawl 
Back alleys, martial arts schools and rough bars are your stomping grounds. 
You might have military training, or maybe you just grew up with a passel of 
rough-and-tumble siblings. Whatever the case, you know how to dish out the 
damage with your fists and your feet. 
Use the Brawl Ability for retests in combat when you are using your natural 
weapons (teeth and fists, or even magically grown claws and appendages). This 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Ability is also the province of the martial arts, although you should specify which 
art your character performs when you take this Ability. 
Akashic Brothers may take a specialization of Do when using Brawl. With 
the Do specialization, the Akashic Brother may choose to inflict lethal damage 
in unarmed combat, instead of scoring bashing damage (see p. 191). 
Computer 
With the Computer Ability, you understand how to use, program and access 
computers of all sorts. Since computer technology facilitates Virtual Adept 
technomagic and serves all sorts of roles in the Technocracy, this Ability is very 
handy for a cutting-edge modem magician to have. 
Use Computer with a Mental Challenge (difficulty determined by the 
Storyteller) to break into systems, alter data, write programs or figure out 
unfamiliar computer operations. 
Cosmology 
The Tellurian is vast and full of mysteries, but some of those mysteries are 
clear to you. Whether through hearsay or personal experience, you know of 
many fantastic places and creatures throughout the cosmos. 
When you encounter a strange Realm, a mystical Node or an unknown spirit, 
you use your Cosmology Ability to puzzle out its nature. Usually doing so calls for 
a Mental Challenge with a difficulty determined by the Storyteller. By expending 
a Cosmology Trait, you can determine the strength of a Node or how powerful a 
spirit is. Additional information relies on challenges and your ability to roleplay 
through the process of dealing with alien places and changeable entities. 
Crafts 
You can build things. Depending on your area of expertise, you know how 
to manufacture items and make handy tools or decorations. You must choose a 
focus for Crafts, specifying your preferred form of creation. Carpenny, Clock- 
works, Blacksmithing, Leatherworking and the like are all possibilities. You can 
fashion works of art by studying Painting, Drawing or similar physical media. 
Crafts also covers more technical skills, such as Mechanics and Electronics. 
Making or repairing an item with Crafts usually involves a Physical 
Challenge of your dexterity, with a difficulty set by the Storyteller based on the 
type of job. Making a concealed spring-loaded trap is far more difficult than 
planing a board, for instance. Making a work of art may require Mental Traits 
instead, such as when you draw a precise map or devise an electrical design. 
Dodge 
When trouble rears its ugly head, you know how to get out of its way. ; 
Unhesitating reactions let you evade blows and gunshots, getting aside just in 
time to avoid injury. You can use Dodge against any attack that you're aware of. 
1 
You can dive for cover as someone fires a gun or twist away from a sword before ' 
it bisects your spine, for instance. You may use the Dodge Ability as a retest when ! 
defending against an attack that you can see or sense coming. 
Drive 
Although most people can drive in the modern age, you can drive well. You 
are equally at home with a manual or automatic transmission, rush hour is no 
concern, and you can eke the most performance out of your car. In dangerous 
situations, you can evade traffic and even use your vehicle as a weapon. Bear in 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


mind, though, that just because you can drive a station wagon doesn't mean you 
can drive an 18-wheeler with equal ease. A Mental Challenge may be necessary 
to allow you to figure out where everything is in an unfamiliar vehicle. 
Drive tests most often involve a Physical Challenge of your reflexes. 
Enigmas 
Puzzles, riddles and problems are your hobby and passion. Whether you're 
working on the morning crossword or translating an ancient scrawl in a buried 
tomb, you have a penchant for coming up with unusual solutions, answering 
mystical conundrums and solving all manner of brain-twisters. 
You use Enigmas most often with a Mental Challenge to help figure out a 
puzzle of some sort. Of course, the Ability alone shouldn't substitute for all of the 
roleplaying involved in working out the puzzle. However, when you are trying 
to work out a riddle or other such challenge, your Enigmas Ability allows you to 
double any given time limit for each Trait expended, or to make an extra guess 
for each Trait expended. 
Etiquette 
Mages have their own arcane rules and regulations for society, above and 
beyond the concerns of normal human manners. You know the proper way to greet 
someone, when to rise and how to make introductions, and you can even tell the 
difference between a salad fork and a dinner fork. You can make a toast with the best 
of them, and you keep your cool in any social scenario, from high tea to a gang's rally. 
The Etiquette Ability can supplement Social Tests to impress or blend in at 
parties. If you make a social faux pas, you may expend an Etiquette Trait immediately 
to negate the gaffe -your 
character knew better than to make the mistake. Note, 
c however, that this rule applies only to (reasonably) normal human social interac- 
e tions. Human etiquette is of little use when dealing with puzzling Umbrood or 
centuries-old Archmages who have transcended human comprehension. 
Expression 
Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put 
; pen to paper (or fingers to musical instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion 
and stirring imagery. You can convey message and meaning in your art, from 
symphonies to poetry, and whatever you write is both clear and moving. 
When writing or composing, you can sink Expression Traits into the work. 
Doing so typically denotes some level of quality. Professional poets, writers and 
musicians often use three or more levels to make their best material. 
Firearms 
A little time at the gun range goes a long way. You know how to hold, fire 
and clean a gun. You can unjam one too, and you can tell different models apart. 
You know how to stand to get the best aim, how to handle recoil and how to take 
care of problems in the field. 
If you possess the Firearms Ability, you use your Mental Traits for gun 
combat instead of using Physical Traits. You can expend Firearms for a retest in 
ranged-fire combat withpistols, rifles, shotguns, crossbows and similar weapons. 
Hobby/Professional/Expert Ability 
In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have 
achieved some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some 
work on the side, or perhaps you've studied a topic specifically. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Hobby/ProfessidExpert Ability is a catch-all category for unusual Abilities 
such as Mage h e ,  Hypnotism, Explosive Ordnance Disposal and so on. The Storyteller 
must approve any Ability of this type specifically and define its capabilities. 
Intimidation 
Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques used for terrifying 
people into compliance. Using Intimidation could rely on anything from physical 
size, to a particularly frightening grin, to knowing which emotional buttons to 
push. Note that Intimidation generally covers the threat of force. Actual applica- 
tions of violence fall under Brawl, Meke, or Professional Ability: Torture. 
You can use Intimidution in conjunction with a Social Challenge in order to scare 
someone. Victims may flee or give up information at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
Investigation 
You know how to pick up clues and put together disparate pieces of information. 
By habit and training, you can set a jumbled mass of data into order, discovering 
identities,motivesandpattemsinanothenvisechaotlcscene.YoucanuseIn~tigation 
with a Mental Challenge to puzzle out meaning to a random series of events, to spot 
when someone is carrying a concealed weapon or to find a clue at a crime scene. 
Law 
Nobody is above the law, except those who know how to use it to their 
advantage. You’re one of those people. Perhaps you uphold the law, or maybe 
you have been on the wrong side of it so often that you’ve picked up a few tricks. 
Your knowledge of Law allows you to understand legal processes, courts and 
lawyers, and to use and twist them effectively to your own ends. 
Use the Law Ability in court situations or with Social Challenges involving 
legal matters. Because the legal body is so vast, your Storyteller may require you 
to select a focus of legal expertise such as Criminal Law, Civil Law or Tax Law. 
Alternatively, you may choose to study Tradition Law in depth. 
Leadership 
A good speaking voice and self-confidence lend a powerful presence to a 
leader. Leadership represents your ability to motivate people and convince them 
to follow your guidance. Even among those who do not know or respect you, you 
can demand attention. 
You can use Leadership with a Social Challenge to try to get a minor favor 
or task from a character. 
Linguistics 
You’ve studied a language - 
or languages - 
other than your native tongue. 
Whether you’re a scholastic mage whose Tradition relies on special magical words or 
your skill is necessary for other studies, you can speak, write and read other languages. 
You must choose one language for each Trait of Linguistics you possess. Each , 
language is a separate focus. Therefore, you could have Linguistics: Cantonese and 
I 
Linguistics: German. Alternatively, you can focus on the underlying study of 
a t  
Linguistics itself, granting some understanding of the principles behind the 6 
structure of language. Languages need not be spoken; American Sign Language 
or Egyptian hieroglyphics are also fields of linguistic study. 
Those who wish to converse in another language (but cannot actually do 
so) should hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb making an L-shape Fa,-’ 
- 
to indicate to other players that the characters are speaking a different language 
,‘I. 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


than those around them. Those who wish to listen in must also possess that 
language or a means of comprehending it. 
You know how the human body functions. You can speed the recovery and 
healing of an injured person, or you can use your knowledge to inflict injury. 
Many mages learn just enough to assist their magical healing or to create harmful 
coincidental Effects. 
You can use the Medicine Ability to speed a person's healing by one category. 
A Wounded person would heal as if he were only Bruised, for instance (taking less 
time to actually become Bruised, and then recovering very rapidly from there). 
Medicine may be used for other sorts of research and lab work with a Mental 
Challenge. Since Medicine represents such a vast field, your Storyteller may require 
you to specify a focus, such as Pharmaceuticals, Internal Medicine or General Practice. 
Regardless of distraction or injury, you're quite skilled at focusing your 
thoughts. You put aside extraneous concerns and chaos, and center all of your 
attention inward instead. In this way, you can rest peacefully or organize your 
thoughts even under duress. 
You can expend a Meditation Ability Trait to make up for a lost hour of sleep 
(in case your mage really needs to finish a ritual or he has already been up way 
too long). You can also use Meditation with a Mental Challenge to reach a trance 
state in which your mage can ignore injury or distraction. (In doing so, for 
instance, he may avoid taking a penalty on a challenge of E n i w  by focusing 
and ignoring the diversions of his surroundings.) 
If you've got something in your hands, you're a deadly fighter. Be it a sword, a 
stick or a set of nunchaku, you can use it to damaging effect. Expend Melee for retests 
in hand-to-hand combat when you are using a close-combat weapon such as a knife 
or a chair. Certain weapons function best when wielded by a character with Melee. 
The hidden world teems with mysterious secrets. By unlocking universal 
keys and studying the basics of spirituality, you can learn the shadowy paths of 
the supernatural. Your Occult Ability serves as a general knowledge of the 
o the existence of many sorts of inhuman creatures 
basic (and sometimes erroneous) knowledge of the 
t : various denizens of the supernatural world. For more detailed information, study 
Expert Ability: Lore in your particular subject of interest. The Occult Ability 
doesn't substitute for a mage's paradigm, of course. Each practitioner has his or 
her own beliefs, and Occult operates more as a general knowledge of the sorts of 
principles that are widely given credence in paranormal circles. 
, 
be 
I 
I 
: 
Performance 
You are a true virtuoso. In your chosen medium, you have a gift for artistic 
endeavors. Whether you play an instrument, sing, dance or act, your skills allow 
you to entertain and even to earn money. 
bility can earn you a modest income, just like other 
st choose a specific art form as a focus for Performance, 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


such as playing an instrument, singing, acting or doing dramatic readings. Note 
that Performance generally applies to art rendered before an audience, while 
Expression most often focuses on literary works or underlying emotions, and Crafts 
concentrates on the creation of physical objects such as paintings or sculptures. 
Science 
The Technocracy has broadened man’s understanding in hundreds of fields 
of study. Categorizing and breaking down the world into many different forms, the 
methods of logic and reason give sentient beings the means to understand the 
universe one piece at a time. Education in Science covers techniques of inquiry, 
modem studies and a broad scope of foundational work in a diverse range of fields. 
Science Ability requires a focus. Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Metallurgy, 
Mathematics and Cognitive Science are all possibilities, but this list if far from 
comprehensive. Combining the Science Ability with different fields may yield a 
wide variety ofresults. For example, Science: Metallurgy with Academics may give 
results regarding historical research and theory, while the same Science with 
Occult may center around ancient alchemical techniques. Actually construct- 
ing objects or devices based on scientific theories may require the use of the 
Crafts or Technology Abilities. 
Using a particular branch of Science usually requires a Mental Challenge of 
some sort to determine the success of research or the viability of theoretical work. 
Stealth 
By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and quietly, 
you can evade notice or sneak past people. You know how best to take advantage of 
surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities for unnoticed 
movement are not lost on you, as you understand the uses of timing and diversion. 
With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past the 
notice of guards and searchers (who contest your Ability with their Mental 
Traits and Investigation Ability). 
Streetwise 
You’re no stranger to the word on the street. Even if you don’t have any 
particular friends or contacts in the area, you know about the different commu- 
nities and gangs that hang out in town. You recognize tags and other territorial 
markers, and you know some of the signs, colors and clothes that denote street 
people, gangers, hoodlums, criminals and social workers. 
Using the Streetwise Ability with your Mental Traits lets you recognize the 
influence of various gangs or street communities. You also know about criminal 
organizations and activities, and you could perform a little larceny yourself. An 
appropriate Social Challenge can help you smooth dealings with a hostile gang, 
but you may need Etiquette to make a really good impression. 
Subterfuge 
- 
Even in idle conversation, people use little white lies, slip hints about their 
true motives, try to guide the course of discussion and give away their secrets 
indirectly. The art of Subterfuge is the art of reading these tells and using them 
against the person who lets them slip. 
When someone confronts you with one of your own lies, you can use the 
Subterfuge Ability in your defense. By guiding a conversation, you can unearth 
someone’s Negative Traits. If you manage to steer conversation to a particular 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


topic in play, you can expend a Subterfuge Ability Trait and make a Social 
Challenge to determine one of the subject’sNegative Traits related to the topic. 
Survival 
The Survival Ability represents a knowledge of terrain, how to find shelter, 
where to find water, techniques in hunting, edible and poisonous plants and fungi 
and so on. Although most mages still avail themselves of modem conveniences, 
quite a few Traditionalists travel the wilderness and subsist on its bounty. 
Hunting and avoiding danger in the wilderness usually relies on a Physical 
Challenge. If you have the Survival Ability, you can substitute your Mental 
Traits for such a challenge if you so desire. 
Technology 
You know all about high-tech gadgetry, devices, machines and toys. 
Whether building, repairing or just figuring the infernal contraptions out, you 
have a good sense of how such mechanisms work, be they televisions, microwave 
ovens or sprinkler systems. 
With the Technology Ability, you can puzzle out most technical devices. 
You understand all manner of electrical and mechanical engineering, material 
work and even a little bit of hotwiring. You are equally able to program a DVD 
player or install an alarm. You can also use Technology to circumvent such 
devices, which can be very handy in defeating Technocratic security. Use 
Mental Traits for such challenges. 
BACKGRGXJNDS 
ALLIES 
Old friends, magical heritages and the web of favors and social maneuvers fall 
into the category of Backgrounds. These Traits describe your character’s place in 
mundane and magical society in terms of personal standing or mystical power. 
A few friends, either left over from your pre-Awakened days or made 
afterward, help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few calls and cut a 
few deals to find assistance in a wide range of activities. Your Storyteller will 
probably require you to define how you keep your allies and their relations to you. 
Each Allies Trait represents one person whom you can call upon for aid. 
Unlike Influence, your allies have special talents that make them better than the 
average person on the street. Although your allies may not be aware of your 
magical skills, they can be quite useful if you direct them properly. 
In general, your allies do not show up in play directly. Instead, you use them 
for certain services between play sessions by notifying your Storyteller: 
An ally can follow up on research or activities that you have started. If you 
undertook a specific task previously, such as tailing someone, researching a 
project or building a device, your allies can continue the work with one Ability 
Trait’s worth of expertise. As long as your allies work on the project, your Allies 
Traits for the individuals are tied up. 
If you need a particularly competent ally, you can expend multiple Traits 
to gain access to a person with multiple levels of an Ability or Influence. Each AUies 
Trait that you spent after the first gives an extra level of expertise to your ally. The 
ally may use this expertise on your behalf - 
although rarely with your skill - 
and 
he will help only as long as you tie up your Allies Background Traits in this manner. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


An ally can help you hide, find a Node or look for signs of magic, although 
obviously it’snot always a g d  idea to tell him too much about the magical world. Each 
TraitofAlliesthatyouuseth~letsyoumakeaSimpleTest.AwingrantsyouoneTrait 
offas. Doingsocountsasaprojectthatlastsfortheentire timebetweengamesessions. 
Be wary of calling on your allies too often. An ally may call on you for mutual 
aid or refuse to help you perform dangerous or illegal activities. 
ARCANE 
Some mages are merely sneaky, but others have a preternatural ability to 
avoid detection. A mage with the Arcane Background is one of the latter, gifted 
with the capability of slipping through the cracks and skating through existence 
unidentified. Since many mages run afoul of all manner of enemies (the Technoc- 
racy, supernatural monsters, the IRS), this Background proves extremely useful. 
Any time you complete a scene (say, at the conclusion of a fight, after 
running from a location or having just finished a meeting) you may expend one 
of your Arcane Traits to cause everyone involved to forget and lose all record of 
either your name or your face. (You may spend two Arcane Traits to make them 
forget both.) You must do so immediately upon concluding the scene, for you 
cannot retroactively cause someone to forget you later. When you spend an 
Arcane Trait thus, all of the appropriate records of your character just vanish 
from that scene. The camera that should have recorded you had a technical 
problem, the interviewer just couldn’t remember your name and forgot to jot it 
down, the computer crashed.. . whatever it takes. This Background has no game 
effect other than removing records of your character. You can’t, for instance, 
decide how your Arcane will wipe out records and decide to use it in a fashion 
that would hit other people’s records or some other important information. It 
works only on you. Even subjects with benefits like Mind magic or a photo- 
graphic memory lose track of your character’s personal information inexplicably. 
Arcane may hide your identity, but it doesn’t cover your actions. Even if 
someone can’t remember who you are or what you look like, a victim will 
certainly remember your spells, your attacks, your crazed behavior or the 
dangerous information that you passed along. 
Your Arcane works only at your behest. Your friends don’t suddenly forget 
your name. Arcane Traits refresh each game session. 
I 
AVATAR 
Every mage has a spirit, a soul, an inner voice, a guardian angel or some 
otherwise mysterious force that ties him to the cosmos, and mages refer to this 
force as the Avatar. Indeed, many mages theorize that every single human being 
has an Avatar. However, the mage’s strength lies in the Awakening, which 
causes his Avatar to stir and become a force for change on the Tellurian. The 
power of that Avatar impacts your mage’s ability to channel Quintessence, the i. 
most primal force of energy in the cosmos. 
Your Avatar Background has two main important effects. 
Firstly, your mage can refresh Quintessence Traits equal to the Avatar rating 
automatically by spending time at a Node. You need only win a Mental Challenge 
using the Meditation Ability each game hour in order to refresh one Quintessence 
Trait until you reach an amount equal to the Aetata~ Trait total. However, you do , rCl, 
not gain anything if you already have equal or more Quintessence Traits than . 
h ,  . 
sb 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Avatar Traits. Quintessence gained in this fashion is considered personal Quintes- 
sence, and it cannot be stolen from you by anything short of an Archmage of Prime. 
Secondly, you can spend Quintessence only up to a limit of your Avatar 
Trait rating each turn. If you have one Avatar Trait, you can spend only one 
Quintessence Trait each turn. If you do not have the Avatar Background, you 
cannot spend personal Quintessence at all. However, you can still use Prime to 
transfer it to other people or sources, or to use it from Tass. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, your mage’s Avatar rating may affect his 
Seekings. A strong Avatar (many Traits in the Background) will almost 
certainly guide a Seeking more strongly and personally. 
With the right contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts of 
useful information. Although having an ear to the wall doesn’t necessarily 
provide you with good help or loyal servants, it does mean that you know who 
to ask when looking for the movers and shakers behind the scenes. 
In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to pick up rumors and 
information. When you call on your contacts, you make a few phone calls, check 
withlikelysnitchesandgreaseafewpalms. Inreturn, youget rum0 rsandinformation 
as if possessed of a certain amount of Influence. Doing so lets you find out exactly 
what isgoingon inthecitywithinaparticulararea.Youcanget informationofalevel 
equal to how ever many contacts you use. If you use Contacts x3 on Indwny, for 
instance, you get information that h d w q  Influence x3 would yield. The advantage 
of the Contacts Background is that contacts can be switched from place toplace each 
game, getting information in different areas at your demand. 
At the discretion of a Storyteller, using Contacts to find especially dangerous or 
well-guarded information may require your character to spend some money or perform 
a few favors. On occasion, accidents can cause contacts in one area to dry up, such as 
a strike that affects your lndus~ry contacts, or a particularly unlucky astronomical 
conjunction that sends your Occult contacts running for the hills. Your contacts will 
not generally function as aides or lackeys; that is the purview of the& 
Background. 
evon has Contacts x3. This month, he decides to check up with the 
versity Influence xl and Industry Influence x2, in order to see 
what’s happening in the worlds of technology. Next month he’ll change those to 
Underworld and Street to see who he’d talk to about hiring some mwck to deal with 
the sensitive information he gathered previously. 
Some people are fated for great callings - 
or terrible failures. With the Destiny 
Background, you have some trial or famous circumstance in your future, an appoint- 
ment for which you are almost sure to be present. You can still be killed or captured 
(since someone else might fulfill the terms of the destiny or that fate might be an 
interpretation of your own destiny), but you are almost sure to take part in some great 
event and to last long enough to get there. There’s no guarantee that your destiny is 
agoodthing, though, andyouusuallyknowofitonlyinthevaguestsense,sobeware.. .. 
Once per game session per Trait of Destiny, you may make a Simple Test (win 
only). If yousucceed, youregainone Wil1powerTrait.Youknowthat you’redestined 
for some fate, and this knowledge helps you persevere even when the chips are down. 
However, a Storyteller can conversely declare that you have fulfilled your destiny if 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


you accomplish some great (or ignominious) deed, and he may remove the 
Background. He can also determine that some terrible battle is the culmination of 
your destiny and deny the use of the Background at that time. Regaining Willpower 
Traits with Destiny is done at the beginning of your turn before you act. You can't 
spend Willpower, recoup it withDestiny, spend more and repeat the cycle. However, 
you don't have to use up all of your Destiny Traits at once. 
DREAl-h 
Be it past lives, racial memories or universal subconscious, some mages have 
the ability to tap into a wellspring of knowledge that hails from the cosmos itself. 
With the Dream Background, you dive into this wisdom and draw forth useful 
information that may help in dire straits. 
Once per game session, you can use your Dream Background to gather useful 
information from the universal subconscious. You may use your levels in Dream 
as levels in any one normal Ability of your choice, replacing your normal Ability. 
So, for example, you might have one level of Melee but realize that you're fighting 
a master swordsman. Calling upon Dream, you could replace that one Melee level 
with a number of Melee Abilities equal to your Dream Traits. These Abilities last 
for one scene or hour (whichever comes first) or until you use them up. 
Accessing Dream requires at least one full turn of uninterrupted concentration. 
INFLUENCE 
Human society is built on institutions. Governments, guilds, orders and 
religions all foster and promote themselves like living organisms. They grow and 
evolve just like the people who created them. When you have Influence, you can 
sway the direction of some areas of society, pushing communities to grow as you 
direct. Your Influence can strike indirectly at your foes while protecting your 
own assets, or it can gain you information and special resources. 
Influence comes in many different areas, so you must allocate Traits 
separately to each Influence. Therefore, if you haveLegalx4, you could still have 
Police x3 independently, but you would have to spend the Traits for each. 
You cannot manage more Influence than the sum of your permanent 
Physical, Social and Mental Traits combined. This limit counts against all of 
your total Influence, so your combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, 
there are only so many things you can do in a day. 
When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary Influence Traits. The 
tables for various Influence areas detail what you can do with a specific number 
of Traits. Performing an action requires a number of Traits equal to the level of 
the action. You must use three Traits to perform an action listed at the third level 
of an Influence chart, for instance. With high levels of Influence, you can 
perform many small actions or a few significant ones. 
Certain levels of Influence gift you with items, money or aides. Unlike the 
Resources Background, money and equipment garnered with Influence does not 
come automatically each month. If you want a steady income from Influence, you 
must direct your Influence in that direction continually, and this income does not 
come with any associated trappings of wealth. (You'd have to buy a house and car 
separately, for instance). Aides garnered with Influence generally help with only 
I 
one specific task, and they usually have the equivalent of only one level of Ability , ;,?"- 
' - 
in their area of skill. For more competent and readily available help, take Allies. 
~ ,". 
6' 
, 
4 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Most cities have only a set amount of Influence in various areas. For 
instance, Atlanta has a great deal of Transportation Influence, because it is a hub 
of travel, while Hollywood would have a lot of High Society and Media Influence. 
A rust-belt city where manufacturing and heavy industry has all but disappeared 
would have very little to no Idustry Influence. 
Storytellers should map out the total amount of each type of Influence that exists 
in the city. Once all the Influence of a given type is used up, the only way to get more 
is to use Influence to grow that area of society, destroy someone else‘s Influence and 
thus free up those resources or acquire an adversary’s Influence in an area. Each city may 
also have different reflections of the Influences listed here. A city with a thriving 
independent film community is going to have a different picture of Media or High 
Society than a city where the a m  are being literally starved out due to budget cuts. 
Each area of Influence has its own description. CertainTechnocratic agents 
and Master mages may possess truly far-reaching Influence, giving them power 
to exert control beyond the levels included here. 
BUWUCRACY 
You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing with 
social programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and 
regulations or twist bureaucratic regimentation to your advantage. Bureaucracy 
is useful in operating or shutting down businesses, faking or acquiring permits 
and identification papers and manipulating public utilities. City- and county. 
level government clerks, utility workers, road crews, surveyors and other civil 
servants are potential contacts or allies. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Trace utility bills 
2 
Fake a birth certificate or driver’s license 
Disconnect a single small residence’s utilities 
Close a small road or park 
Get public aid ($250) 
3 
Fake a death certificate, passport or green card 
Close a public school for a single day 
Shut down a minor business on a violation 
Fake land deeds 
Initiate a department-wide investigation 
Start, stop or alter citywide programs or policy 
Shut down a big business on a violation 
Rezone areas 
Obliterate records of a person on a city or county level 
4 
Initiate a phone tap 
5 
CHURCH 
Although the modem church has arguably less control over temporal 
society than it did in the Middle Ages, its policies still exert considerable 
, 
influence over the direction of politics and communities. Knowing the appro- 
* priate people allows insight into many mainstreamreligions, such aschristianity, 
I 
a Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, Shinto or Buddhism. (Fringe or alternative groups, 
f 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


such as Scientologists, are the purview of the Occult Influence.) When you 
exercise Church Influence, you can change religious policy, affect the assign- 
ment of clergy and access a variety of lore and resources. Contacts and allies 
affected by Church Influence would include ministers, priests, bishops, Church- 
sponsored witch-hunters, holy orders and various attendees and assistants. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local area 
Pass as a member of the clergy 
Peruse general church records (baptism, marriage, burial, etc.) 
Track regular church members 
Suspend lay members 
Open or close a single church 
Find the average church-associated hunter 
Dip into the collection plate ($250) 
Access private information and archives of a church 
Discredit or suspend high-level church members 
Manipulate regional branches of the church 
Organize major protests 
Access ancient church lore and knowledge 
2 
Identify higher church members 
3 
4 
5 
FINANCE 
Avoiding unwanted notice while maintaining a reasonable standard of 
living takes some work for mages, especially those who’ve outlived their records 
or just happened upon wealth that’s too good to be true. Although your actual 
available money comes from your Resources Background, you can use Finance 
Influence to start or smother businesses, crush or support banking institutions 
and alter credit records. Clearly, such power over money is not to be trifled with. 
Fortunes are made and destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, stockbro- 
kers, bank tellers, yes-men, financiers and loan agents all perform such work. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Learn about major transactions and financial events 
Raise capital ($1,000) 
Learn about general economic trends 
Learn real motivations for many financial actions of others 
Trace an unsecured small account 
Raise capital to purchase a small business (single, small store) 
Purchase a large business (a few small branches or a single 
large store or service) 
Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some credit 
rating alterations) 
Ruin a small business 
Control an aspect of citywide banking (shut off ATMs, 
arrange a bank “holiday”) 
Ruin a large business 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Purchase a major company 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Many good-hearted mages use their talents to assist the needy and the 
wounded, while others simply rely on clever scams to bilk people with snake oil. 
Technologically minded mages often devote work to the invention of new 
medical techniques. Either way, such mages move in the circles of hospitals and 
HMOs. All of these sorts of research and development are the purview of Health 
Influence. Coroners, doctors, lab workers, therapists, pharmacists and special- 
ists are just a few of the folks you can find in this field. 
Access a person’s health records 
Fake vaccination records and the like 
Use public functions of health centers at your leisure 
Get a single pint of human blood 
Access some medical research records 
Have minor lab work done 
Get a copy of a coroner’s report 
Instigate minor quarantines 
Corrupt results of tests or inspections 
Alter medical records 
Acquire a body 
Completely rewrite medical records 
Abuse grants for personal use ($250) 
Have minor medical research performed on a subject 
Institute large-scale quarantines 
Shut down businesses for “health code violations’’ 
Have special research projects performed 
Have people institutionalized or released 
Learn what is trendy 
Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows 
Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before they are 
made public 
Track most celebrities and luminaries 
Be a local voice in the entertainment field 
Borrow idle cash from rich friends ($1,000) 
Crush promising careers 
Hobnob well above your station 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


4 
5 
INDUSTRY 
The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. 
Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, churning 
out the staplesof everyday living. Idustry Influence sways the formationofunions, 
the movements of work projects, locations for factories and the product of 
manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, engineers, construction work- 
ers, manual laborers and all manner ofblue-collar workers exist among these ranks. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Have minor projects performed 
Learn about industrial projects and movements 
Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash ($500) 
Arrange small accidents or sabotage 
Appropriate machinery for a short time 
Close down a small plant 
Revitalize a small plant 
3 
Organize minor strikes 
4 
5 
Manipulate large local industry 
When a mage winds up in a jail cell with witnesses and evidence pointing 
to all sorts of strange events and forbidden practices, there's nothing like having 
a little bit of sway in the courts. This sway is especially important when a mage 
wants to avoid the ire of national agencies, Technocrats and hunter groups, who 
might otherwise be attracted by stories of criminals with unusual occult records. 
Of course, a littlekgul Influence is also excellent for attacking an enemy's assets 
too. Such Influence grants you a measure of leverage over law schools and firms, 
lawyers, judges, DAs, clerks and public defenders. 
LEAL 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
3 
Get free representation for minor cases 
Avoid bail for some charges 
Have minor charges dropped 
Manipulate legal procedures (minor wills and contracts, 
court dates) 
Access public or court funds ($250) 
Get representation in most court cases 
Tie up court cases 
Have most legal charges dropped 
Cancel or arrange parole 
Close down all but the most serious investigations 
Have deportment proceedings held against someone 
4 
Issue subpoenas 
5 
Minor celebrity status 
Get a brief appearance on a talk show that's not about to 
be cancelled 
Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh gathering 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Directing media attention to certain practices and away from others is a 
delicate procedure. Encouraging belief in magic, without drawing attention 
overtly, requires utmost finesse. WithMedia, you can crush or alter news stories, 
control the operations of news stations and reporters or sway public opinion 
through DJs, editors of all varieties, reporters, cameramen, photographers and 
broadcasters at your disposal. At Storyteller discretion, Media Influence may 
also allow access to the more technical areas of television, radio or movies. 
Effect 
Learn about breaking stories early 
Submit small articles (within reason) 
Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports 
Get hold of investigative reporting information 
Initiate news investigations and reports 
Get project funding and waste it ($250) 
Ground stories and projects 
Broadcast fake stories (local only) 
Kill small local articles or reports completely 
The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and 
unusualfactions.Ofcourse, 
magesarepartandparcel ofthisworld, and they areoften 
quite familiar with its intricacies and aware of all manner of magical happenings. By 
using Occult Influence, you can dig up information to improve your knowledge, get 
inside the occult community and find rare componentsfor magical rituals. Revision- 
ist histories, lost secrets, ancient maps and forbidden tomes are all available to the 
mage with the right connections. Cult leaders, alternative religious groups, charla- 
tans, occultists, New Agers and a few more dangerous elements can be found here. 
Effect 
Contactandmakeuseofcommonoccultgroupsandtheirpractices 
Know some of the more visible occult figures 
Know and contact some of the more obscure occult figures 
Access resources for most rituals and rites 
Know the general vicinity of certain supernatural entities and 
(possibly) contact them 
Access vital or rare foci and components 
Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($250) 
Access occult tomes and writings 
Research a basic rote 
Research a moderately complex rote 
Access minor magic items 
Unearth the formula of a powerful rote 
# 
“To protect and serve” is the motto of the police, but police are a hindrance and 
a menace to many mages. After all, the police don’t take kindly to people who buck 
the establishment with brimstone and lighming. With care, a mage can manipulate 
: ’ I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the police to avoid persecution, protect personal interests or attack enemies indirectly. 
Police of all ranks, detectives, clerical staff, dispatchers, prison guards, special divisions 
(such as SWAT or homicide) and local highway patrol make up these ranks. 
cost 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Effect 
Learn police procedures 
Hear police information and rumors 
Avoid traffic tickets 
Have license plates checked 
Avoid minor violations (first conviction) 
Get “inside information” 
Get copies of an investigation report 
Have police hassle, detain or harass someone 
Find bureau secrets 
Access confiscated weapons or contraband 
Have some serious charges dropped 
Start an investigation 
Get money, either from the evidence room or as an 
appropriation ($1,000) 
Institute major investigations 
Arrange setups 
Instigate bureau investigations 
Have officers fired 
The political landscape is dangerous territory, and few willworkers see a 
need to interfere, unless they want to change laws and policies directly. Altering 
party platforms, controlling local elections, changing appointed offices and 
calling in favors is the purview of Political Influence. Well-timed blackmail, 
bribery, spin-doctoring or any sundry tricks are stock in trade on both sides of this 
fence. Some of the likely contacts and allies include pollsters, lobbyists, activists, 
party members, spin-doctors and politicians from rural zoning committees to the 
mayors of major cities or Congressional representatives. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Minor lobbying 
Identify real platforms of politicians and parties 
Be “in the know” 
Gamer inside information on processes, laws and the like 
Use a slush fund or fund-raiser ($1,000) 
Sway or alter political projects (local parks, renovations, 
small construction) 
Dash careers of minor politicians 
Get your candidate in a minor office 
Enact encompassing legislation 
2 
Meet small-time politicians 
3 
4 
Enact minor legislation 
5 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Ignored and often spat upon by their betters, those in the dark alleys and 
slums have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who 
might come calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections 
on the underside of the city to find the homeless, gang members, street buskers, 
petty criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums or barrios and fringe elements 
of the so-called deviant cultures. 
Effect 
Open an ear for the word on the street 
Identify most gangs and know their turf and habits 
Live mostly without fear on the underside of society 
Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life 
Access small-time contraband 
Get insight into other areas of Influence 
Arrange for some services from street people or gangs 
Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons 
Mobilize groups of homeless people 
Panhandle or hold a “collection11 ($250) 
Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG 
Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations 
Control a single medium-sized gang 
Arrange impressive protests by street people 
Some mages travel extensively; others settle down and remain largely 
anonymous in a local area. Either way, though, mages need to be able to 
protect their homes, just like anyone else. Getting access to special supplies 
and services can take a measure of Transportation. All these things can be 
I controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, harbors, railroads, airports, taxis, 
border guards, pilots and untold hundreds, as well as more mundane aspects 
like shipping and travel arrangements. 
TRANSPCBRTATIBN 
Effect 
Know what goes where, when and why 
Travel locally quickly and freely 
Track an unwary target if he uses public transportation 
Arrange safe (or at least concealed) passage from mundane 
threats such as robbery, terrorism or searches 
Seriously hamper an individual’s ability to travel 
Avoid most supernatural dangers when traveling (such as 
Technocratic squads) 
Shut down one form of transportation (bus lines, ships, 
planes, trains, etc.) temporarily 
Route money your way ($500) 
Reroute major modes of travel 
Smuggle with impunity 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


UNDERWHUD 
The world of crime offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle 
leaders. Underworld Influence lets you call on such favors for all manner of illegal 
dealings, and its ranks are filled by the Mafia, La Cosa Nostra, drug dealers, 
bookies, Yakuza, tongs, hit-men, fences and criminal gangs. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
2 
Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, petty 
gambling, scalped tickets) 
Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen credit cards 
Hire muscle to rough someone up 
Fence stolen loot 
Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000) 
Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG 
Arrange a minor hit 
Meet someone important in “the Family” 
3 
4 
Make white-collar crime connections 
5 
Arrange gangland assassinations 
Hire a demolition man or firebug 
Supply local drug needs 
UNlVERSITY 
The halls of academia are familiar to many a willworker. Impressionable 
young minds await as ready sources of recruitment and assistance. Institu- 
tions of learning and research, then, are the purview of the University 
Influence. Access to the halls of learning can help you with any number of 
resources, from ancient languages to research assistance to many potential 
students. School boards, students from kindergarten through college, gradu- 
ate students, professors, teachers, deans, Greek orders and a variety of staff 
members fill the ivy-covered halls. 
cost 
Effect 
1 
Know layout and policy of local schools 
Have access to low-level university resources 
Get records up to the high school level 
Know a contact or two with useful knowledge or Abilities 
Have minor access to facilities 
Fake high school records 
Obtain college records 
Cancel a class 
Fix grades 
Discredit a student 
Organize student protests and rallies 
Discredit faculty members 
2 
3 
Call in faculty favors 
4 
5 
Falsify an undergraduate degree 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


It was once thought that the accumulated wisdom of the ages could always be 
foundinsomebooksomewhere. Whilethereare toomany universalmysteries tocatalog 
them all, many wise mages have recorded their findings and musings in various journals 
and materials designed to pass on their knowledge, keep it safe or just remind 
themselves of key points. You happen to have some of those sorts of records. 
A magical library is an invaluable tool for research. Normally, developing 
greater proficiency in a Sphere of magic requires quite a bit of study time (see p. 
137). With the Library Background, you can cut this time down thanks to your 
study materials and access to copious notes. For each Library Trait that you have, 
you can shave one study session (generally, one game session) worth of time off 
the period required to learn a Sphere level, down to a minimum of one session. 
You must still pay the usual Experience Trait costs. 
Other people cannot benefit from your library unless you specifically assist 
them, which ties up your use of the Library Trait for that study time. The notes and 
books are all organized in a personal fashion, and you need to be there to interpret 
them, find the right materials and otherwise separate the chaff from the wheat. 
Example: Gregor wishes to improve his command of Forces. He has a modest 
two-Trait Library (or the equivalent of afew good books anda lot of disorganized notes 
and junk material). Forces isn’t his specialty Sphere, so learning the Initiate level will 
take four game sessions (two per level). Using his Library Traits, though, Gregor 
learns the magical principles in only two game sessions. 
fter you and comes to your aid 
assistance from your mentor, 
ntor, you risk a certain number of Traits to 
ne+Trait mentor probably knows only little 
mentor may well have luminous standing 
f potent powers. Regardless, taking up your 
mentor’s valuable time is costly. You must engage in a Simple Test when you call 
If you succeed, your mentor deigns to aid you. If you tie, your 
en requires something in return. If you fail, 
efore helping. In any case, your mentor can 
nly once in any given game session, and only if you have an 
o contact him or her. 
The level of aid that your mentor can give depends on the number of Traits 
For one Trait, your mentor is privy to a single piece of specialized 
information at a level above your own. If you have Expert Ability: Mage Lore x2, 
to gift you with one piece of 
For one Trait, your mentor can instruct you in an Apprentice-level 
, 
Sphere that’s outside your specialty. 
’ 
(. 
With one or more Traits, your mentor can teach rotes. Your mentor can 
, ’a teach one rote per his Trait value for the highest Sphere level, plus one Trait per 
f you have in this Background (and Storyteller approval, of course): 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


additional Sphere. Therefore, a rote requiring an Adept-level Sphere could be 
taught by a mentor worth four Traits; a rote requiring two Initiate-level Spheres 
would require a mentor worth three Traits (two for the Initiate level, one for 
having an extra Sphere). 
For two Traits, you can borrow one level of Contacts, Influence, Resources 
or Reputation from your mentor for the duration of the game. If your mentor is 
very powerful (four or five Traits), you can borrow two levels. 
Two Traits allow your mentor to instruct you in an Initiate-level Sphere 
that’s outside your specialty. 
For three Traits, your mentor can instruct you in a Disciple-level Sphere 
that’s outside your specialty. 
Also at a cost of three Traits, your mentor can train you in the ways of a 
special Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Ability that is outside your normal ken, such 
as Vampire Lore. 
For four Traits, your mentor can train you in an Adept-level Sphere 
outside your specialty. 
For five Traits, your mentor can train you in a Master-level Sphere outside 
your specialty. 
Since mentors can prove unbalancing by providing too many different 
powers over the course of a long game, the Storyteller may lower your total 
Mentor rating as you call on his knowledge. This decrease represents the fact that 
the mentor has less left to teach as your character learns the mentor’s secrets. 
N @ E  
Places of mystical power are rare and hotly contested in the modern age of 
dying magic, and you happen to have regular access to one such place. There may 
be certain fees or quests levied on you, or you may have to travel through 
dangerous territory to get there, but you at least know the location of a stable 
Node, and you can usually rest there to refresh your energies. 
When you rest in a Node, you can restore your Quintessence as described 
for the Avatar Background (seep. 103). ANode also generates Tass, or portable 
Quintessence. Each game session, you can test a number of times equal to the 
Traits of Node that you have. Each win (no tie) on a Simple Test is worth one 
Trait of Tass. Furthermore, you can come into play automatically with your 
Quintessence Traits equal to your Node or Avatar Trait total (whichever is 
lower). The Node has enough power for only one person to use. If you allow 
someone else to use the Node in one game session, then you cannot take its 
power for yourself as well. 
Technocrats, lupines and enemy mages all tend to hunt for Nodes, so watch 
out. Your territory may become endangered by other supernatural creatures. 
Spirits and strange phenomena tend to haunt Nodes. Storytellers may restrict 
this Background heavily to represent the fact that Nodes are rare and valuable. 
kS@URCES 
You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some 
solid resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance 
Influence, these resources are always readily available, and they come to you 
:: - L - 
automatically due to your investments, jobs and holdings. 
, G‘; 
I 
&. 1,‘ I’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Four Traits: 
Large savings and holdings. Income $10,000. Own larg 
house or some small properties, two vehicles, some 
luxuries and unusual items. 
Rich. Income $30,000. Own estate and grounds, 
Five Traits: 
You own a rare and potent device with magical powers. This Wonder could 
have any number of effects. Some Wonders cast spells. Others store Quintes- 
sence. Still others simply have permanent magical Effects cast upon them. A few 
rare ones have combinations of these traits. 
Per level of Effect: +1 
Disposable charms (set of 10): -1 
Per 5 Quintessence held: + 1 
Per Trait of Arete held: +1 
effect, but they’reuseduponce they’re burned. Thecandlesdon’thldany Quintessence, 
1 so their value is threefor the Disciple-levelheulingEfJect, minus one because they’re aset 
of disposable c h m .  They cost a total of two Traits fur aU 10 candles together. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Awakening causes a mage to gain an inkling of the possibilities of the cosmos, 
and thus blossoms the first spark of Arete. From there, however, the mage must 
seek out further enlightenment and understanding in order to increase his Arete 
and develop his supernatural wisdom. 
Arete Traits do not have adjectives. Rather, a mage simply has a number of 
Arete Traits, representing his overall enlightenment. The more Traits the mage 
has, the more potent his mystical abilities are and (theoretically) the greater his 
understanding of the cosmos is. Arete Traits are not spent or temporarily used 
up like many other Traits. Rather, the mage’s Arete Traits remain a constant 
measure of the mage’s steps toward knowledge. Therefore, Arete ranges from 
zero (an un-Awakened human) or one (a neophyte mage) to lOTraits, although 
very, very few mages ever achieve more than five Arete Traits. 
You start with one Arete Trait - 
the most basic wisdom that comes with 
Awakening. You can purchase additional Arete with your Free Traits for two 
Free Traits each. However, you can’t start with more than three Arete Traits. 
Even the most profound Awakening has limits. 
Your Arete has a few profound effects: 
You use your Arete Traits to determine the success or failure of your 
magical endeavors. When you enter a magical challenge (trying to cast a spell), 
you pit your Arete against the spell’s difficulty. A more powerful spell can be cast 
reliably only by a wise, enlightened mage. 
Your knowledge of individual Spheres cannot exceed your overall 
wisdom. Therefore, you cannot have more levels in any Sphere than you have 
Traits of Arete. If you have only three Arete Traits, you cannot exceed Disciple- 
level Spheres. You could theoretically be ranked a Disciple in every Sphere, but 
further improvement would require an advancement of Arete. 
As your Arete increases, you become aware that it’s the magician’s will 
alone that creates magic, not some dependence upon props and tools. Once you 
gain your sixth Arete Trait, you may discard the use of foci from one Sphere. You 
don’t need to use any foci to do magic with that Sphere at all. Each additional 
Trait you accrue allows you to discard foci for another two Spheres, until you 
don’t need foci at all to perform magic. 
Note especially that your Arete is limited by your permanent Willpower 
Traits. Your number of Arete Traits cannot exceed your permanent Willpower 
Traits. If your permanent Willpower falls below your Arete, the excess Arete 
Traits are not permanently lost. However, you can’t use them or count them 
toward casting Effects until your Willpower is restored. 
W ILLPCBWER 
When everything else has failed and you’re utterly exhausted, Willpower is 
your last resort. Your Willpower Traits measure your innerresolve, final tenacity 5 
and sheer guts. A character committed wholeheartedly to a course of action can ‘* 
force himself beyond normal human endurance to achieve incredible feats. 
Willpower Traits do not have adjectives. Rather, you have permanent 
Willpower Traits - 
the rating that you start each game with - 
and temporary 
Willpower Traits - 
the Willpower Traits that you can expend to do things and 
which refresh with time. You start with five Willpower Traits, and you may gain 
I h’: 
, 
*.~,‘” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


more as you garner experience. If you use some of your Willpower, it refreshes 
at a rate of one Trait every game session (although your Storyteller may vary this 
pace to simplify bookkeeping or suit the needs of the chronicle). 
Expending a Willpower Trait can have any one of a number of effects, 
generally related to incredible resolve and self-determination: 
You may spend Willpower Trait to refresh all of your lost Traits in one 
Attribute category - 
Physical, Social or Mental. You can refresh each category 
only once per game session. 
Expenditure of a Willpower Trait allows you to gain a single retest when 
defending against a Mental or Social challenge. You lose the initial Traits you 
bid, as usual with a retest. You may use Willpower thus only once for any given 
challenge. Note that certain powers or stipulations override this ruling. 
Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for 
which you don’t have an appropriate Ability. For instance, if you’re trying to 
figure out a complex security system and you don’t have the Technology 
Ability, you can use a Trait of Willpower to make a test as normal. This 
expenditure doesn’t guarantee success, but it lets you try something you 
normally wouldn’t be able to figure out. 
You can spend a Willpower Trait to assert brief control over your senses 
while you’re in an episode of Quiet (see p. 174). Doing so allows you to speak a 
brief sentence coherently or banish hallucinations for a short time, enough for 
you to get your bearings temporarily. 
You can spend one Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to 
and including Incapacitated, for the duration of one turn. 
Spending a Willpower Trait lets you suppress aderangement temporarily. 
If you spend enough Willpower Traits on suppressing a derangement, you may 
overcome it eventually. 
You may lose permanent Willpower Traits due to certain terrible traumas. 
This happens only at the discretion of the Storyteller. The most likely cause is 
suffering some great emotional or psychic trauma after you have exhausted all 
3 of your temporary Willpower Traits. In this event, your maximum Willpower 
drops. If your permanent Willpower Trait total falls below your Arete Traits, 
then your Arete is suppressed, as described previously. 
QUINRSS~NCE 
The building block of the universe, the raw energy of the Tapestry, the Fifth 
Element, the power of the Tellurian - 
Quintessence is all this and more. Mages 
believe that all reality springs from Patterns of Quintessence. Objects or creatures 
exist because their Patterns are suffused with Quintessence, thereby giving them 
reality. Proficient willworkers can take this very energy in its pure state and 
channel it to fuel their workings, to create new things or to reinforce their magics. 
As such a potent commodity, Quintessence is highly valuable among mages. 
Track your Quintessence Traits with temporary Traits. Quintessence 
Traits can have a Resonance adjective, or they can be flavorless. You might have 
, 
small cards for your Quintessence Traits, which record their Resonance and can 
(1 be turned in to a Storyteller once you use them. You can hold Quintessence 
I * Traits up to your number of Avatar Background Traits. If you have even the 
‘ 
, 
’ 
’ 
I
r
i
s
 
B .  
* 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Initiate level of Prime, then you can exceed this limit and go up to 20 
Quintessence Traits. Such energy is stored in your Pattern. Your mage literally 
carries crackling, fundamental energy of creation inside his body. 
Your starting Quintessence equals your rating in the Avatar Background. 
When you enter a game session, you usually don’t gain any additional Quintes- 
sence since it’s such a rare and precious substance. However, if you have the 
Node Background, or you have gained access to Quintessence in the course of 
play, you might gain additional Traits from a Storyteller. 
You can use Quintessence for a variety of tasks. However, you can never 
channel more Quintessence per turn into a magical Effect than your number of 
Avatar Traits. So, if you have Avatar x3, you can channel up to three Quintes- 
sence Traits per turn. Quintessence can do the following: 
For one Quintessence Trait, you lower the casting difficulty of a spell by 
one Trait. You can lower the base difficulty by up to three Traits (subject to your 
normal Quintessence spending limits). 
For one Quintessence Trait, you remove a penalty Trait from a spell. For 
instance, if you are fast-casting a spell (normally a one-Trait penalty), you can 
spend a Trait of Quintessence to overcome this difficulty. You can stack this use 
of Quintessence with lowering the difficulty if you have enough Traits. 
YoucanuseQuintessenceTraits tocounteranopponent’smagic (seep. 136). 
You can use Quintessence Traits to nullify Paradox if you are a Master of 
You must use Quintessence to power certain spell Effects, as noted in their 
Prime (see p. 164). 
individual descriptions. 
Every mage has human goals, drives and desires. From these emotions 
spring Resonance, the flavors and alterations that color every piece of magic 
and make it personal. Just about every magical spell, place and object has some 
sort of Resonance. 
Most mages recognize three broad categories of Resonance, which corre- 
spond to the forces of the Tapestry: Dynamism, Entropy and Stasis. You start 
This rule works only if you wish t 
The compressed scale is a way 
r the sake of play speed. 
some paperwork. Instead of everyone having a maximum of 20 Quintes- 
nce, cap it out at 10 Traits. Everyone starts with a Willpower rating of two, 
d a maximum Arete of twice their Willpower. Characters have only five 
alth levels: Healthy, Bruised, Wounded, Incapacitated, Mortally Wounded. 
This scale cuts down on long fights and it wear out characters sooner, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


with one Resonance Trait in one category, describing how your emotions 
cause your spells to manifest unique qualities. Each type of Resonance tends 
to be similar to a specific Avatar Essence. Dynamic Resonance is like the 
Dynamic Essence, Entropic Resonance is like the Primordial Essence, and 
Static Resonance is like the Pattern Essence. Simply pick an adjective that 
may be appropriate for one type of Resonance. This adjective influences your 
magic’s appearance. 
As you gain experience and strengthen your magic, your personal style and 
feelings come through more strongly. Eventually your Resonance will increase 
in strength. As your Resonance increases, you become noticeably more magical, 
quirky and different. Your personality traits shine through. 
You can gain a new Resonance Trait from the following circumstances, if 
you lose a Simple Test: 
Going into Quiet 
Finishing a Seeking (whether passing or failing) 
Losing a permanent Willpower Trait 
Learning a Master-level Sphere 
Undergoing a strong magical or emotional event (Storyteller’s discretion) 
You don’t typically lose Resonance Traits. 
Your character’s Resonance has a few noteworthy effects: 
You gain a one-Trait Arete resolution bonus on all spell Effects that 
match up with your highest Resonance level. You’re encouraged to describe your 
spells so that they show off your Resonance. If you have the Dynamic Resonance 
of Fiery, for instance, then your spells should have contrails of flame and washes 
ofheat. To claim this bonus, you must use the Resonance adjective in your spell 
description. You would have to elaborate on how fiery your spell is, potentially 
alerting your adversaries to your Resonance and style. 
You gain a one-Trait Arete resolution penalty on all spells that oppose 
your highest Resonance. For instance, if you have the Dynamic Resonance Trait 
Fiery, you take a penalty on all ice-based magic. 
If you have multiple Traits, you start to become more inhuman and 
magical. You gain cumulative bonus Attribute Traits (which can exceed your 
normal human limits) and Negative Traits, depending on your Resonance 
totals, as shown here: 
Traits Dynamic 
Entropic Static 
1-2 
No modifiers (yet) 
3-4 
EnergeticlClumsy FearsornelGhustly 
Rational/Predictable 
5 
VigorouslDelicate IntimidatinglRepugnant 
DisciplinedlShortsighted 
Example: Isla hus the Resonance Traits of Entropy: Lethal x3 and Static: 
Patterned, Instructive, Reinforcing. From his Entropic Resonance, he gains the 
bonus Social Trait Fearsome but the Negative Social Trait Ghastly. From his Static 
Resonance, he gains the bonus Mental Trait Rational but the negative Mental Trait 
Predictable. Ifhe gains two more Entropic Resonance Traits, he will also get the Social 
Trait Intimidating and the Negative Social Trait Repugnant on top of these. 
With certain Mind and Prime magics, you can sense Resonance, alter it 
or tell who cast agivenspell. You may also discover that your Resonance opposes 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the Resonance of aplace or piece ofTass, in which case, that Resonance cancels 
your magic and makes it harder for you to work spells (see the magical modifiers 
chart on p. 134). 
DERANGE~E~S 
Mental instability and insanity go hand-in-hand with the enlightened 
perceptions that blast their way through the Awakening. Not all mages come 
through unscathed. Many more become unbalanced after battles with powerful 
spirits or trips to strange hellish spirit lands. Derangements cover the specific 
sorts of mental problems that could crop up. 
Derangements are advanced roleplaying tools, and they should be taken only 
with special Storyteller approval. They are described on p. 207. Taking a derange- 
ment gives a player two Free Traits at character creationrickdeb@bellsouth.net. 
N~TIVETRAITS 
As listed earlier in the Trait categories, Negative Traits represent 
specific shortcomings of characters. You can take Negative Traits in order 
to gain additional Free Traits to spend elsewhere. You may take up to five 
Negative Traits. 
When someone guesses one of your Negative Traits, you are one Trait 
down on your challenge. For instance, if you happen to have the Trait Docile 
and someone guesses as much while fighting you, then you must risk an 
additional Physical Trait to continue fighting since your foe has discerned 
your weakness. If you don’t have enough Traits to cover the bid, you lose 
automatically. Negative Traits don’t go away or get used up, so you could be 
in trouble once your Trait is discovered. Fortunately, if your enemy guesses 
wrong, then he must bid an additional Trait instead, because he counted on 
a weakness that you didn’t have. 
‘EXPERIENCE 
Given time, mages slowly claw their way up from Awakening toward 
e( 
Ascension- at least, many do. This system is reflected in play with Experience 
Traits. As you play and learn, you become better at what you do. You learn new 
magical skills, improve your Attributes and hopefully become a more upstanding 
example of a mage. 
Generally, you earn from one to three Experience Traits at the end of each 
game session. The Storyteller decides upon the exact award, based on roleplaying, . 
solving puzzles, being creative and generally contributing to everyone’s enjoy- F 
ment. Typically, you earn one Trait just for surviving. You will improve, albeit 
slowly, as long as you manage to stick around. If you do a good job of playing your 
c 
role and trying your foci and the like, you may gamer two Experience Traits. Those 
players who help with Narration and set-up, bring great costumes and props and 
encourage phenomenal roleplaying may deserve three Experience Traits. 
When awarding Experience Traits, be consistent. If you give a bonus , 
Experience Traits to someone for having a good costume, you should announce 
as much and make that reward available to everyone. That way, nobody is 
cheated, and you offer an incentive for everyone to meet your high standards. , 4’;; 
, 
- 1 . h  ” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


New Ability Trait - 
Once Experience per Ability Trait. 
New BackgroundTrait -One Experience per Trait with Storyteller 
approval. Backgrounds can and should also rise and fall according to story 
and roleplaying situations. 
New Sphere - 
Four Experience Traits for Initiate or Apprentice 
level; eight Experience Traits for Disciple or Adept level; 12 Experience 
Traitsfor Master level. These costs increase to five/ lo/ 15 for Spheres other 
than your specialty Sphere. 
New Arete -Four 
Experience per Trait, with appropriate Seeking. 
New Rote-One 
Experience Trait for each Sphere level used in the rote, 
New Specialization - 
One Experience Trait in an Ability you 
New Willpower - 
Three Experience per Trait. 
already have. 
Be warned. ExDerience Traits do allow characters to build and mow. 
v 
Over time, some mages may become very, very potent with Experience 
Traits. Slow advancement is best. You can’t be too careful, and it gives the 
players time to savor their work. Play a careful balance between reward and 
conservation, and you’ll do fine. 
USING 
EXPERIENCE 
You can spend Experience Traits to earn new Abilities, Attributes, special- 
izations, Spheres and other Traits. In some cases you can buy off Flaws or gain 
other special characteristics. See the chart on this page. 
Every mage Awakens with some rudiments of enlightened awareness. The 
i Avatar stirs, and the mage finds a new ability to perceive and alter the Tapestry, 
I as expressed through his Arete. However, most mages start with only arudimen- 
tary understanding of these new powers. A mage must work, practice and strive 
for a deeper, more enlightened state of mind in order to increase the depth of this 
universal connection. 
A mage increases Arete through Seekings. In a Seeking, the mage grapples 
with metaphysical symbols, personal fears, problems, hopes and changing fates. 
Most often, this struggle occurs through dream-states or exploration of the mind. 
’ The Avatar may trigger a Seeking, drawing the mage’s awareness inward, or the 
“’ 
mage might hope to bring on a Seeking through various forms of personal 
entrancement with self-mortification, hypnosis or mystically augmented sub- 
stances. There’s no guaranteed way to cause a Seeking, although most occur 
while the mage is in a relatively secure state. (That is, mages don’t find 
J~ 
themselves yanked out-of-body and into a lucid dream while in the midst of a 
* -  firefight. More likely, the mage will have bloody nightmares and waking 
1
.
 
During a Seeking, the mage encounters various symbolic representa- 
I ** tions of personal issues. These symbols could represent anything from 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Al+"BUT€ LITIIITATIEBNS 
of 10 Willpower Traits. 
system, you should do it for every character in the game. (In the case of 
characters with different maximum Traits, it's just maximum in one 
Attribute category, maximumeminus-one in the second and maximum- 
minus-two in the third.) 
Note that under rare circumstances, a mage can exceed these limits, 
due to Resonance (p. 119), special magical Effects or the like. 
MCBND 
HUIfI;4N Lrmrrs (@PTI@NAL RULE) 
This rule works only if you want mages to become kgefzdary, more-than- 
human figures as they increase in enlightenment. 
For the most part, mages remain human. They still have their human 
frailties and foibles. However, you can choose to allow mages an opportue 
nity to exceed human limitations as they grow in enlightenment. In such 
cases, the mage's increasing Arete takes him farther and farther from his 
simple human roots, into the realm of the truly supernatural. 
phobias to childhood traumas to anxieties to failures to assumptions. Prob- 
lems can appear in very straightforward manifestations or in cryptic allegory. 
A mage with a phobia of spiders might find himself trapped in a room full of 
arachnids, or strange, spiritual shapes might question the mage's beliefs or 
press him into dreamlike quests that make little rational sense, all with a 
deeper meaning of dealing with personal matters. Often, the mage must 
overcome some deeply held belief or difficulty. These quests force the mage 
to re-examine his values and personal relationships to the Tellurian. Even- 
tually, a determined and insightful mage can work through Seekings to find 
new understanding. 
The problems and symbols in a Seeking aren't always constant. A mage 
with a Pattern or Questing Avatar may have to solve and re-solve the same trials 
over and over, adding a new layer each time. A Dynamic or Primordial Avatar 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


is likely to use different tools each time. Ideally, the mage overcomes old habits 
and problems or realizes some great new truths. 
At the conclusion of a Seeking, the mage’s awareness returns. A failed 
Seeking can be like a nightmare. The mage struggles with inner problems and 
realizes that they’re not yet resolved, that they’ll continue to press in painfully 
and that a greater awareness has been snatched away. A successful Seeking leads 
to something much like Awakening as the mage suddenly realizes a new level of 
reality. This change isn’t as profound as the first Awakening, but nevertheless, 
it can leave the mage with a deep spiritual lucidity that lasts for hours or days. 
Eventually, the mage settles back into the fold of Awakened existence, ready to 
strive for the next higher level of enlightenment. 
A Seeking can take a few minutes or hours, and most require some time 
and effort on the part of the mystic. It’s very rare for a Seeking to last longer, 
however. A mage who dives into his subconscious mind for more than a few 
hours risks madness, and he may actually be locked in a mindscape, an episode 
of Quiet (see p. 74). 
You can undertake a Seeking each time you have enough Experience Traits 
for the next Trait of Arete. This is a matter to resolve personally with the Avatar 
Guide (see p. 250). If you succeed, you spend the Experience Traits and gain one 
Arete Trait. You do not lose the Traits if you fail, but you do not gain the Arete 
Trait either. In either case, you cannot engage in another Seeking until you meet 
the criteria of your Avatar Essence once more (see p. 86). You may gain only one 
Trait of Arete with each Seeking. 
Fortunately, once you’ve wrested enlightenment from the jaws of personal 
The eventual stated goal for mages remains Ascension. Every Awakened 
mage realizes that the potential existsfor some higher level ofconsciousness. Just 
as the Awakening raises the mage up above human perceptions, so too do mages 
know intuitively that some greater enlightenment hovers just out of reach. 
Ascension isn’t tied to power or mystical understanding. In theory, a 
Sleeper could have a moment of fundamental brilliance, Awaken and Ascend 
all at once. Even the rankest novice could Ascend, under the right conditions. 
I 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Conversely, a mage can study for hundreds of years, master a multitude of 
Spheres and never reach the sublime levels of Ascension. The Ascended realize 
their true potential as entities instead of as simple material existences tied to a 
complex Tapestry, and nothing is beyond their reach. Ascension isn't covered 
by rules: It's beyond rules. 
The quest for Ascension remains one of the strong undercurrents of every 
mage's existence. If a character finally reaches Ascension, that character 
disappears from the chronicle and goes to some other fate or greater cosmic 
purpose. Perhaps the character might appear once or twice to dispense some pure 
insight from the well of enlightenment, but the Ascended mage has moved 
beyond the concerns of the everyday world. 
I I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ence seeme 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Magic comes in wondrous diversity. Everything that humanity has ever 
imagined, from space ships to dragons to hidden faerie glades, is possible. The 
magic lies in bringing imagination to life. A mage has the power to turn his fancies 
into reality. Through will and belief, the mage shapes the very stuff of Creation 
into a new form. In theory, with enough study and training, anything is possible. 
A mage’s ability to shape the world bows only to his understanding of the cosmos. 
Of course, were mages truly without limits, the world would be far different. 
A mage must study, work and learn the ways of magic. This painstaking process 
lasts a lifetime. Few mages truly master their talents, and nobody knows the real 
limits of magic. Pursuing Ascension - 
becoming something more than human, 
developing an innate and intrinsic connection to the universe - 
is the final 
goal. For most mages, though, the fact remains that practical magic lies in the 
execution of little mystical tricks or creations. The more experienced the mage 
is, the broader andmore potent these skills become. With time and effort, amage 
can also create lasting spells or build special talismans and magical devices. 
Ultimately, magic opens the door to opportunity, but the occasions it affords are 
only as broad as the creativity and dedication of the magician. 
Because magic can be limitless, it’s difficult to describe and work effectively. 
How do vou handle something that’s sublime and infinite in scoDe? For this reason, 
v 
most mages agree upon the categorization of the following nine Spheres: Ccrrrespon- 
h e ,  Enmopy, Forces, Life, Matter, Mind, Prime, Spirit and Time. Each Sphere 
describes a specific piece of magical reality. With expertise in a Sphere, a mage can 
effect changes over that aspect of the Tellurian. Of course, the Spheres simply work 
as one model for magic. They provide a means for mages to have a common basis for 
talking about their spells, or to give Apprentices a handle on what they’re doing. Two 
mages of widely different Traditions use such disparate techniques that describing 
their magical practices could prove nearly impossible. With the Spheres, however, 
a mage can give his ally a general idea of what he’s doing, whether he’s manipulating 
Forces, recasting Time, 
shaping I’rime energy or whatever. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


THE 
P~WERW AWARENED 
~
G
I
C
 
Ultimately, an Awakened mage warps or rewrites reality with her powers. 
The Spheres are simply a measure of the practical knowledge necessary to do so. 
It’s the force of enlightenment, channeled through the mage’s belief in the 
efficacy of certain practices and items, that bends the world to the mage’s will. 
Of course, reality already has its own pattern. The world got along fine before 
the mage ever Awakened, and it will probably continue to do so. The basic, 
underlying level of reality that most people see is called static reality. The everyday 
person on the street lives and breathes in static reality. Whatever most people 
believe is real has agreat effect on the shape of the world itself. Belief isn’t necessarily 
everything (some elements of the cosmos certainly predate humanity), but it does 
exert significant change over the Tellurian. This underlying reality is considered the 
common experience for most people, or the consensus. When a mage works 
Awakened magic, she reshapes the Tellurian, most often against the consensus. 
Mages don’t really agree on the source of Awakened magic’s power. Is the 
Avatar really an angel, a friendly spirit or the mage’s soul? Nobody knows for 
certain. All that mages known is that when someone Awakens and has the eye- 
opening experience that says, “I can change the world,” the person becomes 
capable of exerting his will to change reality. That’s Awakened magic. 
Of course, even the un-Awakened have some capacity for magic. Patterns 
that have existed so long in reality that they’re part and parcel of the world contain 
their own power, and sorcerers practice and use these Patterns. So magic remains 
a mysterious force. Certainly the Awakened have more flexibility, but theirs isn’t 
the only magic, nor is it necessarily a superior one. It’s simply a magic that comes 
from within, from will, enlightenment and belief in tools and trappings of magic, 
rather than from the power inherent to those tools or trappings themselves. 
VULGAR mGIc 
When a mage calls upon his greatest powers and invokes a display of stunning 
mystical forces, the act violates the consensus - 
it flies in the face of what people 
believe to be possible. The static reality, or mundane world, follows laws and rules 
that say that such things aren’t possible. Through his enlightened will, the mage 
-I 
says “By my will, this is possible,” and he makes it so. The mage literally bends or 
reweaves the Tapestry to his desires. He does not do so without cost, however. 
When a mage performs some feat that breaks the expectations of normalcy, he 
commits a vulgar display of magic. People don’t just hurl lighming, fly through the air or 
shrug off bullets -reality doesn’t work that way. So say the laws of the world, and so it 
is difficult for mages to gainsay these rules. Vulgar magic is dficult and often uncontrol- . 
lable. Many vulgar workings go awry, and the world snaps back at the mage through the 
force of Paradox. When the mage does something that’s clearly impossible, he creates a ; 
Paradox, and the titanic forces he unleashes are often beyond human control. 
Vulgar magic is also called vain or dynamic magic, because it’s a mighty 
change to the world and a small example of the mage’s hubris in reshaping 
Creation. Mages who rely on vulgar magic often find themselves shunned by other 
mages who consider them dangerous, and they succumb to the forces of Paradox. 
CCBINCIENTAL 
~€IAGIC 
I 
Ofcourse, many of the charms and spells used by mages don’t have to violate the , rrig . 
sanctity of the consensus. A mage can weave a subtle spell that takes off and nudges 
1, . 
L’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


little bits of reality here and there to work to his advantage. Such magic is called 
coincidental magic because it seems like little more than a lucky coincidence. When 
it’s something that could reasonably happen in the real world, when people would say, 
“Wow, that’s unusual and lucky, but I guess it could happen,” it’s coincidental magic. 
Mages rarely give direct shape to coincidental magic. Rather, working 
coincidental magic is a matter of channeling desire into an Effect, then letting the 
spell go so that it nudges the Tellurian in a favorable way. The spell simply carries 
the mage’s need - 
“I want him to be harmed by lightning,” or, “I want to win this 
game of chance” - 
and the end result comes about in a way that could have 
plausibly happened anyway. Since this magic flows with the Tapestry instead of 
tearing it apart, it rarely suffers the burden of Paradox. The mage may not control 
it directly, but he nudges a few Patterns here and there to gain a desirable result. 
Note that, when casting coincidental magic in play, it’s customary for you (the 
player) to describe the nature of the coincidence, but your mage may not realize it. 
For instance, your mage could cast an Effect designed to help heal a wound. You 
rationalize it by saying, “The wound wasn’t as severe as it looked at first,” and indeed, 
when someone checks, the wound seems to be not nearly as bad. Your mage, though, 
simply chanted and invoked a charm to help with healing, and lo and behold, she 
seem to be better. She let the magic form the coincidence without directing it, even 
though you (as a player) decided on what coincidental form it might take. 
CBNSENSUS 
CBINCIDENCE 
(@PTIBNAL RULE) 
This rule works only if you trust your players to make objective, fa 
udgments of coincidence. 
te for their friends’ E 
lgar. If you think tha 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


increasingly implausible, until they become vulgar. In some parts of the world, belief in 
mysticismmakescertainmagi~lfeatsacceptedoccurrences, 
so they remaincoincidental. 
When too many coincidences happen in one place, they stretch the bounds 
of possibility. As more and more events favor a mage, the likelihood of other 
good luck becomes smaller. Eventually, the run of good luck becomes improb- 
able, and Effects that would’ve been coincidental become vulgar instead. Mages 
refer to this complication as the Domino Effect - 
knock down too many 
coincidences in a row, and they stack up until they’re just too implausible. 
Each time you cast a coincidental Effect, you decrease the likelihood of 
another favorable coincidence. You add a + 1 Trait difficulty to the casting of 
subsequent coincidental Effects. This modifier stacks, so you take a +3 Trait 
difficulty to your next Effect after three successive turns of coincidental Effects. 
In this case, it may be harder to cast each following Effect than it would be to 
cast vulgar magic. You still won’t gamer Paradox if you succeed, though. The 
modifier drops by one for each turn that you don’t perform a coincidental Effect. 
If your domino modifier reaches +3 Traits, then it stays at that level, and all 
subsequent coincidental Effects are now vulgar until you spend a turn without casting 
any magic. Then it drops back to a +2 modifier and dissipates at the standard rate. 
THE 
DCHTIINCB 
EWKT 
THEITIETAPHYSICW~TIAGIC 
Mages recognize intuitively the same thing that many young children 
know: Reality itself is subjective, bent to whims and desires if one only believes 
hard enough. Although the modem world teaches children to reject this notion 
in favor of a scientific worldview in which natural laws govern everything and 
you can’t change the world no matter how much you want to, mages know 
better. Their every working is testament to that fact. 
Of course, more than a few mages wonder at magic’s real limits. Can a mage 
truly remove all gravity from the world, allowing everyone to fly? Could a mage 
pluck the sun and moon from the sky and drink from the stars? Is it possible to 
rework Heaven, to brave Hell and to remake the face of Creation itself?Or, more 
.rl 
plausibly, how about just conjuring a buck and a quarter for lunch? 
While the Spheres of magic do describe and allow for great feats, even mages 
have their limits. The consensus is one such limit. The more strongly that people 
believe in the way the world should work, the harder it is to fly in the face of such , 
belief. History provides another limitation. Things that have been true for avery 
long time tend to remain true, which is one reason why traveling back in time 
and changing the past is so very difficult. And then there are aspects to reality 
that simply seem fixed in place, like the facts that all material things have an 
ephemeral Pattern and that Quintessence forges the nature of reality. 
Asmagesunderstandit,realityitselfspringsfromacycleofgrowth,patterningand 
decay. Everything stems from Quintessence, the mystic energy that fuels reality. It is 
a sort of intangible essentia that creates perfect Patterns that coalesce into solid form. 
THE 
CYCLE e~ 
THE TELLURJAN 
Mages perceive reality metaphorically as a great cosmic Tapestry, consist- 
ing of threads woven from concepts, ephemera and matter alike. It’s the 
interaction of these threads, and their weight from Quintessential strength, that 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


creates the Tellurian - 
the whole of existence. As mages see it, various things 
spring into being from belief, ideas or the raw bubbling of creation and rebirth. 
In time, these things take on Patterns - 
insubstantial ideals of form. These 
Patterns can collect Quintessence. That is, they strengthen within reality until 
they have a true nature, be it ephemeral or material. In time the Patterns wear 
away until they are gone. This never-ending cycle ensures the constant change 
of the universe and the flow of Quintessence through the Tapestry. 
It’s from Dynamism that creation first begins. The universe holds infinite 
possibility. From time to time, new things are given form, as a result of mages 
creating something, the universe itself clashing and growing to make new forms, 
or just raw creation spewing forth a brand-new idea. The power of Dynamism 
ensures constant change and possibility. Every time a mage twists the Tapestry, 
he fuels Dynamism in some fashion, because he creates possibility. 
Once somethii is created, it exists in a form that takes a place in the Tapestry. The 
object or creature, invested with Quintessence, has a form that can be manipulated. It’s 
a spirit, a device, a being, a force or some other presence that has a consistent existence 
intheunivexxThisforceofStasiscausestheuniverse tohaveaconstant,understandable 
basis. Although Stasis eventually gives way, it does provide a foundation for existence. 
In time, all things erode. Patterns change or decay intonothingness, and their 
associated objects, spirits, creatures or forces come to an end. This is aspect of the 
metaphysical trinity is known as Entropy - 
the renewal of things. Quintessence 
h returns to the unformed parts of the cosmos, to be taken back into the cycle. Old 
things give way to new. Through this part of the cycle, the universe has room for 
new growth, and it prunes those things that have remained too long. 
PATTERNS AND THE TAPESTRY 
As the cycle of the Tellurian creates and destroys things, their forms and Patterns 
weave throughout the complex Tapestry of existence. Each piece of creation is tied to 
every other piece through the thread of essential cosmic energy known as Quintes- 
sence. The merest parts combine to form greater Patterns and wholes. Just as a person’s 
Pattern is made up from many tiny Patterns all built together, so too is the cosmos 
formed of a great conjunction of interwoven Patterns. The interaction of mind, body 
and spirit gives form and recognition to these Patterns. 
f 
The physical world begins with the body - 
the Patterns of Mutter, Life and 
Forces that make up reality as it’s perceived by the senses. Chunks of material 
have inert Patterns of Mutter, while living beings grow and change as complex 
Patterns that draw Quintessence from the cosmos and return it in a cycle of 
’! living Dynamism. The forces that act upon creatures and objects also have a 
Pattern. They are suffused with bright energy for their brief existences, and they 
, transfer that energy to change or manipulate other Patterns. 
~ 
I 
Given an ephemeral existence but separate from the material world, Spirit 
the refined levels of nature that occur when a Pattern takes on 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Quintessence in an ideal form. Instead of touching the base world of imperfect 
matter, the Spirit has an existence that mirrors emotion, thought and desire. 
While Spirit often reflects creations of matter, it also forms into sublime truths 
that cannot survive in the constraints of the material world. 
~ I N D  
Without ephemera or materia, Patterns exist only as thoughts and ideals. These 
Patterns are mere constructs of fancy until they are empowered with Quintessence. 
Yet it’s from such thoughts that all things form. Belief in a Pattern fuels its reality, 
and awareness of other forms creates an awareness of self. The mind reflects the most 
refined nature of the universe, the consciousness that cannot be grasped but exists 
solely because it perceives itself. When the mind believes in something’s power, that 
belief creates power. From the mind springs recognition of the Tapestry and the will 
that creates magic, grants strength to a focus and shapes new forms. 
SPHERES, PARADIGmS AND RULES 
Although the powers of the Spheres remain theoretically infinite, the hard 
fact remains that most mages’ capabilities exist under hefty limitations. In game 
terms, you use your ratings in the various Spheres to determine what your mage 
can and can’t do. This capacity is bounded further by your mage’s practical 
applications of those Spheres and by the beliefs that your mage holds. Therefore, 
the Spheres serve double-duty as a descriptive art that mages talk about in the 
game, and as a rules mechanic for moderating play. 
THE 
LEVELS w SPHEMS 
Mages have a rough idea of what’s possible with the Spheres. A long- 
studying Hermetic Master is far beyond the capabilities of a newly Awakened 
Apprentice. Of course, individual mages rarely categorize magic so simply, but 
a general scale of competence exists. In game terms, this scale follows the levels 
of power for the Spheres. Therefore, you chart your mastery of each Sphere as: 
Apprentice- A mage who’s just started studying the rudiments of the Sphere. 
Inieiate-Onewhohasbeeninitiatedintothetruemrjteriesandleamedthebasics. 
Disciple - 
A mage with a broad, general competence in a given Sphere. 
Adept-Onewho’suncoveredsignificant secretsandpracticedwiththeSphere. 
Master - 
A mage who has command over both fundamental and complex 
aspects of the Sphere and who has a great level of skill and experience. 
For crossover purposes, the Apprentice and Initiate levels are Basic powers, 
the Disciple and Adept levels are Intermediate powers, and the Master level is 
an Advanced power. Beyond such power levels are Archmages, but their scope 
is too great to be detailed here. 
CREATING 
~AGICAL 
EFFECTS 
When you decide to work magic (or whatever your mage calls it), you need 
to go through a simple process to determine the results. Follow these steps: 
Determine the Effect: Figure out what you want to do, whether it’s hurling 
a ball of flame, causing people around you to fail to notice your presence or 
making dice fall as you dictate. 
Decide Upon Your Method: Each mage’s paradigm- his means of looking 
at magic - 
influences the casting of an Effect. If you’re a Hermetic mage, you 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


probably use Enochian chants, the names of powerful angels and spirits, 
geometric sigils or glyphs. If you’re a Virtual Adept, you might reprogram a 
computer to project energy or re-code the surrounding universe itself. Figure out 
how your mage justifies the Effect in order to determine what focus and what 
Ability you use with the spell. Mages don’t just crank out spells. They work, 
chant, pray and invoke to make the magic happen. 
Check Your Knowledge: Do you know how to accomplish what you want 
to do? Look at your character’s Spheres and determine what knowledge will help 
complete the feat. If you have the appropriate rote, you’re fine. If not, you may 
not be able to work the Effect. If you use the optional rule for fast-casting, you 
can try to cast the rote even if you don’t know it. If you use the optional rule for 
dynamic magic, you can try to build an Effect that does what you want, even if 
there is no rote for it. However, if you don’t have the necessary Sphere 
requirements, you can’t perform the magic. 
The base assumption is that you cannot perform a given spell unless your 
Spheres and rotes explicitly list the ability to do so. 
Calculate Difficulty: The base difficulty for a magical Effect is the Effect’s 
Sphere level in Traits if it’s coincidental, plus one if it’s vulgar, plus another one 
if it happens in view of Sleepers who wouldn’t believe that it’s possible. Add 
modifiers based on the circumstances, as shown in the following chart. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Perform the Effect: You cast the Effect by making a Static Challenge. 
Generally, no Narrator is required as long as your Effect conforms to the rules 
presented here. You simply make the challenge against anyone handy. (Just be sure 
to tell the other person what you’re doing so that she doesn’t get the wrong idea.) 
If you win the challenge, your Effect succeeds. Work out the result as described for 
your rote or Sphere and continue. If you lose, your Effect fails. If you tie, you must 
check your Arete Traits against the Effect’s static difficulty, which you computed 
before. You win if you have more Traits or equal Traits. Note that if you lose the test, 
you can retest with an appropriate Ability for your focus (see the list of foci and 
Abilities on p. 178, which you picked when you decided upon your method. Also, 
youcanoverbidwith your Arete ifyou have twiceasmany AreteTraitsas theEffect’s 
Trait difficulty. However, your opponent can overbid if the reverse is true. 
Wound modifiers do not affect your Static Arete Challenge. Therefore, you 
do not come into the challenge Traits down or lose on ties automatically simply 
for being wounded. However, you cannot perform an Effect if you are uncon- 
scious and have not somehow maintained your thinking process magically. 
Suffer Paradox: Once you’ve finished the Effect, you will take Paradox. 
Typically, Paradox causes a small amount of damage, but the Paradox Judge may 
decide upon another Effect as well. See the section on Paradox later in this chapter. 
Magic isn’t as simple as all that, of course. Besides the basic Arete Challenge 
and the modifiers, you can influence your outcome in a couple of ways and incur 
a couple of potential difficulties. 
PER~UTATICBNS 
ABILITIES 
ENHANCING 
~ A G I C  
When you roleplay a focus properly, you can claim its benefits to your character. 
For instance, if you actually take the time to speak some mystical words, flourish your 
-b 
hands and grasp your mystic amulet, you may well represent your mage’s use of 
Linguistics: Emhian, and you’re certainly putting that knowledge to work. 
If you spend a full turn on the roleplaying of your focus before you cast an Effect, 
that focus’ Ability helps with the result. The list of sample foci gives some ideas for 
appropriate Abilities for each focus. When you meet this requirement, you can use 
-t 
that Ability for one retest on the Arete Challenge as long as you have any levels left. 
Example: Kitty redly, redly, redly needs to help herfnend Miguel, who’s teen shot by 
Technocraticagentsandisdying. Shedeciih torisksome tdgarmagicandhealhirninstantly . 
As a Verbena, Kitty m use any son of life-affiliated focus. She decides to use blood (as an , 
in-play style, not real blood, of course), to represent her character strengtherung Miguel‘s life ’ 
force with her m. She spends afuU mpantomimingthe act of d n g  her mm with the item ; 
card of her athame, then wawingherhands ower Miguel as ifto drip bbodonhu evounds as 
shechantsinaloeummw. Thenextturn, shemakes themagdchaUenge. Sinceit‘sadgar, 
1 
Jlisciple-lewel Life Effect, the difficulty has a base offour Traits. She tests and ties; with three ‘ 
AreteTraits, shefails. Howe~,shee~aMedicineAbilityTrait, 
tecausesheusedher !t 
focus p r o p l y  and took extra time with it. She retests and wins. Miguel is healed of one level 
~ ; 
Now Kitty just needs to sm‘we the Paradox and the Technocrat 
”l 
USING 
G~UINTESSENCE 
t 
As noted on the difficulty chart, using Quintessence allows you to make 
I 
ft?:d‘m 
.I, . 
0’ 
difficult Effects much easier. Each Trait of Quintessence that you channel, up 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to a maximum of your Avatar rating, lowers the difficulty of the Effect by one 
Trait. At best, you can have a net difficulty of three Traits lower than the base 
difficulty, to a minimum difficulty of two Traits. 
Example: Having recoveredfrom his run-in with the Technocrmy, Miguelis working 
on a nasty Forces spell to gamer wengeance. He tracks down the Technocrat and lets loose 
with the spell. Since it's a vulgar Forces Adept-he1 Effect in public, it has a base difficulty 
of six Traits. Howewer, Miguel is also distructed (he's being shot at again), whxh adds one 
Trait, andhe'sfast-casting(becauseheham'tmasteredtherote yet), foranother&tumal 
modifier of one, fur a total di&ulty of eight Traits. Miguel's phyer decides to offset this 
penalty with five Traits of Qauntessence. Miguel's a fortunate mage with an Avatar rating 
of five, so he can do just that. He drops his difidq back down to three Traits. 
If Miguel had suffered from some other modifier - 
another Trait penalty of 
opposed Resonance, for instance - 
and the difficulty had gone up to nine Traits, he 
would have still been able to spend no more than five Traits of Quintessence. In that 
case, he would not have been able to bring the difficulty down past four Traits. If he 
didn't have any negative modifiers, then his Quintessence expenditure couldn't lower 
the difficulty below the base-minus-three limit, or aminimum of three Trait difficulty, 
so he wouldn't have any need to spend more than three Quintessence Traits. 
SPENDING 
EXTRA T I ~ E  
Should you choose to spend extra time, you can help to guarantee success in 
casting Effects. Taking a full extra turn to cast gives you a + 1 Trait modifier on the 
resolutionofthe AreteTest. YoucanstackthismcdifierwiththeuseofafocusAbility. 
Therefore, if you take three turns total (one turn for extra time, one turn for the focus, 
one for the base Effect), you can cast with a +1 Trait bonus and an Ability retest. 
INTERRUPTICEINS 
If you're interrupted while casting an Effect - 
say, you're wounded while 
you're working your focus - 
you have two choices. You can either cast the Effect 
immediately and lose any bonuses from the extended casting, or you can take the 
penalty for being distracted and continue. Therefore, if you are trying to gain the 
1 Ability bonus and casting an Effect, but you are wounded later in the same turn, 
you can decide to release the Effect without penalty but without gaining the 
retest. Similarly, you could continue to cast the Effect and gain a bonus for taking 
extra time, which would cancel the distraction penalty. 
CCEIUN-rErnGIC 
Sometimes you just can't let the enemy get the drop on you, and you have 
to find a way to fight or cancel his spell. That's where countermagic comes in. 
A mage works countermagic by using his own powers to cancel ot wash out his 
enemy's Effect. Doing so counts as your action for the turn, so you can't do it if 
you've already acted. The three basic types of countermagic are sphere 
countermagic, anti-magic and unweaving. 
Sphere Countermagic occurs when you have the Spheres necessary to 
know what the opponent is doing. You pit your Arete against the enemy's. In 
such a case, you make an Arete Test, at the same difficulty as the opponent 
(although you take your modifiers for distractions and Resonance into effect). 
If you win, the spell is canceled. If you have Apprentice-level (or better) Prime 
and your Arete is higher than the opponent's, the Effect can be reflected back 
upon him, so he might be hit by his own fire bolt or wounding spell. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


AntieMagic uses Quintessence to strengthen the Patterns of reality against 
an Effect. You spend Quintessence to raise the difficulty of the opponent’s Effect. 
You can spend Quintessence up to the limit of your Avatar Background, as usual. 
Unweaving tries to tear apart a n  existing spell. You make a challenge against the 
difficulty of the original spell (although your difficulty might still be modified by 
distractionsorResonance). YoumusthavetheSpheresnecessarytohavecastthe Effect, 
and you must have at least the Apprentice-level Prime Sphere. Ifyou win, the spell loses 
one grade of success. Unweaving can degrade the duration of a spell. If the spell has no 
grades of effect left (i.e., it’s down to a simple Effect), then an unweaving destroys it. 
SIlllULTANE@US fh?XTS 
You can cast only one Effect in a turn. Even with Time magic, you are limited to 
channeling only so much magical energy. If you want to do multiple thmgs at once, you 
will probably have to build a conjunctional Effect, if your game uses that optional rule. 
However, some Effects have a duration, especially if you use the grades of 
success mechanic from performing rituals or using Willpower (see the optional 
rules on p. 138). If you have an Effect running already, it takes some of your 
concentration and makes casting other Effects difficult. 
Performing any Effect that requires full concentration, like controlling 
weather with constant changes, precludes you from doing anything else. All of 
your attention is occupied on the spell. Even withMind multi-tasking, you can’t 
divert your magical will to another feat. 
Any other Effect typically requires a little magical will to sustain, but it’s not 
too taxing. For every two full Effects of this sort that you have running, you take 
a one-Trait penalty on all new casting challenges, because you’re slightly 
distracted. Therefore, you might keep up a Forces shield without difficulty, but 
if you also add on the Better Body rote, then you’ll suffer a one-Trait penalty to 
all additional Effects that you weave. 
SPHERES 
AND R~TES 
What follows are the descriptions of the nine Spheres as used by the 
Traditions (and, with some changes, the Technocracy). Each Sphere has a 
broad, general description to note its characteristics, followed by a series of level 
descriptions, eachofwhich lists the capabilities of that level of magic. With each 
level is a set of sample rotes that mages can learn and use. Also, special rules 
regarding the format and uses of the Spheres are covered immediately hereafter. 
Magecharacters start with six levels OfApprentice or Initiate Spheres. With time 
and experience, they may learn more, but doing so is a difhcult process. Typically, a 
character takes two sessions per Sphere level to learn a new set of powers successfully. 
Therefore, learning the Initiate level of Forces would take four game sessions from the 
time that the player spent the Experience Traits. This time is halved for a specialty 
Sphere to only one session per level. (Note, however, that if you’re in a large 
organization with many games, this rate is based on your home game. No fair going to 
a bunch of other games during the week and claiming that you’ve fulfilled your session 
time. The progression is based on the game sessions of your local, usual game.) 
Having the Mentor or Library Background can greatly facilitate learning 
new Spheres (see p. 114). 
LEARNING 
SPHERES 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Willpower Trait before you begin an Effect, you 
eniftheEffectdifficulty is twice yourAreteTrait to 
ACTING 
IN CCBNCERT 
($PTICBNAL RULE) 
all the modifiers to the Arete Test before any caster inv 
e challenge. Therefore, if 10 acolytes help and two mages 
This rule wmks only if you are willing to track downtimes and handle s 
mage wants to not just improve 
ilitate a more potent spell, he d 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


em (win, or tie with more Traits, including retests for focus Abilities). 
e and you must take another minute before testin 
until it reaches double your Ar 
You can cancel a ritual at any time. The spell fails, but you don’t 
y other penalties. You might cancel a ritual so that you can react 
tch as described previously. 
Each time extension adds a grade of success to an Effect. The rotes all 1 
s the first Arete Test. She fails. 
a retest, and she wins. 
s drops in to visit. He distracts 
vertently, whichintemptstherit. Shegritsherteeth, spenhaWiUpower 
keps going, with a +f Trait difficulty. She spends another minute recasting 
, TWW agains t a difjblty offive Traits. F 
e to a di@ulty ofsix Traits would have 
twice her Arete, and it would have botched hombly . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Although most humans can concentrate for only so long, the 
To perform a superhuman ritual, the mage must have a magical m 
rolonging his endurance (typically through an already ritually ext 
or Mind Effect to banish or ignore fatigue), or use up two Will 
its for each additional day of casting. 
Each day you add extends a ritual by one grade. This addition requi 
itional test and bears the risk of increased Paradox on the botch 
riate and to disallow abusive nonsense. 
* 
FAST<ASTING 
(@PTI~NAL 
Skilled mages recognize that rotes are just a teaching tool. The 
ibility of the Spheres lies in endless variety. With true dynamic m 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


You can also make a conjunctional Effect with dynamic magic. In this 
Each Sphere description includes several sample rotes. These rotes are ex- 
amples of the powers possible with that level of the Sphere, and of the common 
techniques that mages develop. You gain one rote automatically for each level that 
you learn in a Sphere. Therefore, you have an Apprentice-level rote for the 5 
Apprentice-levelofasphere, an Initiate-level rote when you learn the Initiate-level : 
of the Sphere and so on. You can learn additional rotes with experience, although \ 
you can usually learn only one rote per game session. You should have a card for each 
I 
rote you know, with a description of its Effect. Such a card is not only a helpful rules 
1 )  
9 
I 
exists, you must either use dynamic magic and fast-cast the Effect (seep. 140), or else , icy;2v' 
approach your Storyteller and work out a new rote and have it approved for play. 
- 
.I, . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Making new rotes is fine, and it should be encouraged. Just make sure that 
the Storyteller handles it between games. It’s hardly sporting to come up with 
and purchase a new rote immediately in the middle of play, especially if the 
Storyteller doesn’t have time to tell if it’s balanced or not. 
I~GICAL 
ATTACKS 
Many of the Spheres have useful applications in battle. However, they often 
require a subsequent challenge to hit or best the target. 
If a Sphere uses a hurled Effect, like a lightning bolt, you must best the 
subject in a challenge of your Mental Traits against the victim’s Physical Traits. 
If the Sphere uses a touch Effect, like an enchantment on a sword or your hand, 
you must win a Physical Challenge against the victim. Either sort of attack can 
be retested with the opponent’s Dodge Ability if the victim is aware of the attack. 
Youcanusean Abilitywith the attackifyouhaveanappropriateone: Useoccult 
if you hurl eldritch bolts, Firearm if you enchant a gun, Meke with a weapon, 
Brawl if you deliver the Effect by touch and Athktics if you throw an object. 
If you have complete physical control over a subject (if you have someone 
tied down, an object held in your hand with nobody else vying for it, etc.), you 
may forgo the attack challenge and affect the subject automatically. 
Some Effects have other requirements, as described in their individual rules. 
Most Effects can reach to the distance of your line of sight or senses. 
Exceptions are noted in the individual power descriptions. If you wish to extend 
your range further, you must be able to cast a conjunctional Effect (see p. 141) 
with the Correspondence Sphere. 
I h G I C A L  R€ACH 
Most spells take effect immediately upon being cast. If a spell is instant, it 
takes effect and is done, although the results may linger. For instance, a bolt of 
fire is instant, so it just flashes into existence and strikes, but it may leave 
I something burning naturally. If a spell has a duration of one turn, it lasts until 
the end of your next turn. Therefore, you can cast an augmenting Effect, then 
use it with your next action in the next turn. If a spell has a duration of one 
minute or conflict, then it lasts either for aminute (if you’re not in combat time) 
or for the series of tests necessary to complete one conflict. If a duration is listed 
as a scene or an hour, then the spell lasts either for one hour (if you’re not in 
* combat time) or until you leave the location or have a break in game time. 
Longer durations will typically exceed a game session and last throughout it. 
Durations rate on a scale, and certain Effects or techniques can modify aspell’s 
duration. The grades for duration are: instant, one turn, one minute or conflict, 
one hour or scene, one day. AStoryteller must adjudicate longer durations. A spell 
might last for a week, a month or more. Some Effects, like magical item creations 
I or wards over areas, might be made permanent until another mage counters them. 
Most Effects have anassumeddurationofone minute/conflict, unlessothenvise 
stated. Generally, casting an Effect on a subject other than the mage causes that 
Effect to lose one grade from its duration. An Effect that lastsfor one minute/conflict 
* when you cast it on yourself last for only one turn when you cast it on someone else. 
Keep these limits and grades in mind when making and approving your own rotes. 
. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


GRADES 
SUCCESS 
Most rotes have a listing for grades of success. If you cast a lengthy ritual or 
you use Willpower, you can boost a spell’s power so that it has a greater effect. 
The exact effects are listed in the “Grades of Success:’’ section for each rote. 
STACKING 
Unless otherwise noted, you can’t stack multiple instances of the same Effect. 
For instance, ifyou hit someone with the Entropy Effect Blight of Aging, the subject 
suffers aNegative Physical Trait. You can’t use the Effect again to cause another such 
Trait at the same time. If a subject is under multiple instances of the same Effect, only 
the most powerful one works. If the duration on one instance of the Effect runs out, 
the next longest duration kicks in. Therefore, if someone is under the Blight of 
Aging Effect to have two Negative Physical Traits for a conflict, and another Blight 
of Aging Effect to have one Negative Physical Trait for a scene, then the victim 
suffers two Negative Physical Traits for the first conflict and then one Negative 
Physical Trait for the remainder of the hour. He does not suffer the one-Trait penalty 
for an additional hour after the first conflict. The duration times overlap, and only 
the most powerful Effect affects the target at a time. 
When unweaving an Effect, you may choose which instance of an Effect to 
unweave. Therefore, you can unweave a longer-running Effect, a more-powerful 
Effect, or any one that you choose. 
CCBRRESPCBNNNCE 
Manipulation of space and distance is the purview of Correspondence. With 
this Sphere, the mage can sense, stretch or distort space, teleport from place to 
place or extend the range of his other senses or magics. This Sphere also covers 
mystical connections, so Correspondence helps create sympathetic magics, like 
breaking or strengthening the ties between an object and a person. 
Theorists espouse the idea of the Correspondence Point and argue that all 
of space is an illusion. They argue that all things exist simultaneously in the 
Tapestry. Through the Correspondence Point theory, they defy distance and 
even step outside of space itself. 
Normally, a mage can send Effects only to the distance of his normal senses. 
If you allow conjunctional Effects, though, then the mage can work Effects at the 
distance of his Correspondence scrying. However, no other Sphere added to such 
an Effect can exceed the level of the Correspondence power. 
You must use Correspondence on whole Patterns. Therefore, you couldn’t ? 
just teleport someone’s head to Saturn. You’d have to teleport the whole person 
if you had a ritual strong enough to reach that far in the first place. 
ASPENTICE 
(BASIC) CCBRIQESPCBNDENC~: 
II~II~IEDIATE SPATIAL 
PERCEPTICBNS 
You can extend your senses so that you have an abstract awareness of 
everything around you. You become completely aware of distance and of various 
magical Effects that alter space. 
objects, places or people. When you cast this Effect on a subject, you become 
aware immediately whether that subject is somehow tied supernaturally to 
Sense Connection: You determine the strength of connection between i ,-,. 
;. .= 
* r  
--I 
something else. You can tell if it’s a Correspondence gate, for instance, or if it has ’. t!h 
t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


astrong sympathetic link to someone. You don’t know what it’s tied to, only that 
it has a strong connection. Grades of Success: No effect. 
Landscape of the Mind: You feel the space around you without having to 
rely on your normal senses. For the next minute or conflict, you gain a one-Trait 
bonus on all challenges involving distance or range automatically, and you sense 
obstacles and people even if you can’t see them. This effect reaches up to 15 paces 
plus an additional three paces per Arete Trait. You can also make a Mental 
Challenge to detect physically concealed individuals (not including those 
hiding with mental invisibility or the vampiric Discipline Obfuscate). You may 
grant these senses to another person, in which case, they have a base duration 
of only one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to double 
the Effect’s reach, or extend its duration by one grade. 
Whereami?: By clearing your mind and sensing local space, you gain an 
absolute location sense. You gain a rough axis of your location immediately with 
respect to a location that you already know. In so doing, you can tell the 
direction to the known location and its rough distance (near, moderate, far, very 
far). Grades of Success: No effect. 
INITIATE (BASIC) CCBRMSPCBNDENCE: 
SENSE 
AND TCBUCH 
SPACE 
The Initiate may cast his senses out to other locations or even touch them 
remotely. You can scry a distant location, although doing so forms a Correspon- 
dence link to you that can be detected with Sense Connection. You can also 
extend your physical reach to these locations. 
Apportation: Youcan physically touch anobject at adistance. You may exert 
your normal touch (strike, kick, whatever) on anything up to adistance of 15 paces 
plus three paces per Arete Trait. If you make an attack, you must make the usual 
challenge to hit. The Effect lasts for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to double the Effect’s reach or extend its duration by one grade. 
Correspondence Sensing: You can use your normal senses at a distance. Your 
maximum range for sensing is 10 paces plus two paces per Arete Trait. You can send 
your senses to any location you specify within this distance. Alternatively, if you 
have an object with an arcane connection to a subject (as might be determined by 
Sense Connection), you may send your senses to the object of that connection. 
Therefore, if you have a key that has an arcane connection to its owner, you can hold 
P the key and send your senses to the location of the owner, regardless of distance. This 
Effect lasts for one minute or conflict. You can grant these senses to someone else, 
in which case the base duration is one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
Ward: You can defend against distant perceptions and scrying by muddling 
space in the area. If you ward an area, then any attempt to view the area remotely 
with magic (such as with Correspondence Sensing or the vampiric Discipline 
Auspex) suffers a retest automatically even if it succeeds. That is, someone 
‘ 1  casting Correspondence Sensing to spy on you must win a retest as well to 
penetrate the Ward. The Ward lasts until it is penetrated or for a scene or hour, 
whichever comes first. You can Ward an area up to 15 paces in diameter plus 
three paces per Arete Trait. If you have Disciple-level Correspondence or higher, 
you may instead cast a Ban. A Ban cannot be crossed physically unless the 
violator wins a Static Physical Challenge with a difficulty of three times your 
: allows you to double the Effect’s reach or extend its duration by one grade. 
I ~ 
; 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Arete Traits. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to double the 
Effect’s diameter or extend its duration by one grade. 
DISCIPLE 
(INTERITIEDIATE) C~RRESPGINENCE: 
PIERCE SPACE 
You can tear the fabric of space and manipulate it for short distances. With 
this magic, you can step from place to place without crossing intervening spaces, 
and you can change the ties between Patterns. You can also split your percep- 
tions so that you see several places at once. 
Chain: You can cause two things (people, places or items) to have an arcane 
connection. You must be able to sense the two things that you wish to chain 
while you cast the Effect. Thereafter, they have an arcane connection that can 
be useful with other Correspondence Effects. The arcane connection lasts for a 
scene or hour, whichever comes first. You must win a Static Mental Challenge 
to use Chain on an unwilling subject. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
The Seven-League Stride: You can step across short distances without 
crossing the intervening space. You may step up to 15 paces plus three paces per 
Arete Trait, in any direction as desired. You do not exist physically in the 
intervening space so you can pass through any wall or barrier except a Ban. You 
can take with you anything that you can carry. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to double the Effect’s distance. 
Filter All-Space: You can spread your senses across space to look for something 
in many places at once. You radiate your senses out to a distance of 15 paces plus three 
paces per Arete Trait. If you know what you’re looking for, you can send aNarrator to 
find it. As long as it’s not within a Ward, you sense it immediately and gain a general 
idea of its location. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to double the 
Effect’s reach. For one grade of success, you may cast this Effect on another person. 
ADEPT 
(INTEMIEDIATE) CQXRESP~NDENCE: 
&ND SPACE 
You can create actual free-standing gates where space touches other spaces 
at a distance, and where things warp from point to point. You can even manifest 
yourself in multiple places at once or close something off in a pocket dimension. 
Bubble of Reality: You shift a subject into an area of non-space, where it does 
4 
not interact with the rest of the world. You must make an attack to “hit” with this 
power. If you succeed, you thrust the target (up to human size) into an area outside 
space. You maintain an arcane connection to it, so you can still scry on it. You may 
also thrust yourself into non-space and scry out. Null space still counts as part of 
the reality to which it’s linked, for purposes of Paradox and magic. The bubble lasts 
for one turn. Beings put into non-space aren’t harmed, but they may be taken out 
of play for a time. Grades ofSuccess: Each grade of success allows you to extend the 
Effect’s duration by one grade or double the total affected target volume (so you 
could affect two people with an extra grade, or four with two extra grades). 
Hemes Portal: A gate appears that looks like a dark window, leading to 
another place. The other end of the gate may be anything within the usual 15 paces 
plus three paces per Arete Trait, or any location to which you have an arcane 
connection. Anything may pass through, and the gate is not one-sided, so if you 
make a gate to a dangerous location, you’ll suffer the same toxic effects as everyone 
else. The gate lasts for one turn then winks out. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to double the Effect’s reach or extend its duration by one grade. t’:;. ,, 
I 
_ .  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Polyappearance: Co-locating space around yourself, you appear in mul- 
tiple places at once. Whatever you do affects all of those locations 
simultaneously, but you can also be affected by things in all of those places. If 
you decide to attack or manipulate multiple things simultaneously, you suffer 
a two-Trait concentration penalty on all challenges because your single body 
is trying to interact with multiple differently reacting things. Also, anything 
that happens to your body in one of its locations happens to your body in every 
location. Therefore, if you use this Effect to appear in three dangerous 
locations, the damage you take in one applies to you in the other two locations 
as well. If one body gets shot, another gets stabbed and the third gets pierced 
with an arrow, the witnesses in each location will see a knife slash, a bullet hole 
and an arrow wound. You can appear in one additional place up to a distance 
of 15 feet plus three feet per Arete Trait. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to make another spatial appearance, or double the Effect's 
reach. For one grade, you may cast this Effect on someone else. 
~ J Z R ( & V M C ~ )  
C ~ ~ ~ N D E N C ~  
~ U T A T E  
TSALITIB 
Your control of space is so absolute that you can warp or bend it freely. You can 
make multiple objects share the same perceived space while each remains un- 
harmed, or you can warp space around something to isolate it from normal space. 
Co-Location: You cause two points of space to act as if they're the same. 
Pick one other point in space. You can pick one target up to the size of a person, 
superimpose it on one other target, and vice versa. Superimposed objects do not 
suffer harm from sharing space, although local environmental conditions may 
cause damage (such as co-locating a person into a large fire). Therefore, if you 
have a space with a chair in one location and a person in another, you can stack 
' the two. The chair appears in the same place as the person, and the person in the 
same place as the chair. Anyone can affect the co-located spaces freely. If two 
co-located objects separate, they do not co-locate again on their own. This 
bizarre appearance lasts for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
tations: Space warps and twists around the subject so that its 
of space tells it that the universe is bending. To everything else, 
the subject seems to be bent. You can change relative perceived space so that 
something shrinks, grows or seems to take on different shapes. Doing so does not 
cause actual damage to the subject, nor can it cause the subject to be crushed by 
surroundings. The space changes around the subject; the subject is not actually 
growing. Increasing the effective spatial volume of a creature makes it double in 
size, so it is easier to hit (two-Trait bonus to resolve attacks). Shrinking a creature 
~ 
makes it correspondingly harder to hit. If you warp a subject, you can make it 
incapable of taking any coherent physical action with the physical world because 
its subjective space is bent relative to the universe. However, the subject could still 
ork magic. Any application lasts for one turn. Grades of success: 
cess allows you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade. 
ouble the Effect's reach or extend its duration by one grade. 
of Entropy affects death, decay and rebirth. Masters of Entrow 
tes and dance the outcomes of fortune on their fingers. 
and takes the forms of order, or structure dissolves into chaos. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A student of Entropy recognizes points of flux and probability, and he spots 
uncanny coincidences. By focusing on order, the mage can detect patterns and 
progressions. By focusing on chaos, the mage senses dissolution and decay. 
Entropy Effects can change luck or fate, but only uncontrollably. Fate is fickle. 
A mage can’t cast a good-luck Effect and specify the form that the blessing will take. 
Only time and destiny will reveal the nature of the good luck that was invoked. 
APPRENTICE 
(BASIC) ENTRBPY: SENSE 
FATE 
AND FBRTUNE 
You can discern the currents of destiny. Chance is visible to you. Although 
you may not have an exact vision of odds or chaotic systems, you have a very, 
very accurate estimate. You can tell when something is weakened, when 
something is about to change or when to get the hell out of Dodge. 
Locate Disorder and Weakness: You can locate areas of chaos, disorder and 
decay. You may find places where disorder is highest, so that you can squeeze in 
a little more unnoticed change, and you can tell what sorts of randomness are 
subject to the most fluctuation. By detecting weakpoints, youcangainaone-Trait 
bonus to attacks against anything that you can sense, as long as you can reach the 
weak spot and reasonably strike it. You could make an unarmed attack against a 
person and claim the bonus, but you couldn’t get the benefit by shooting at a 
pinhead at adistance of 50 feet because it’s unreasonable to try to hit that spot. This 
sense lasts for the duration of a minute or conflict. You may cast this Effect on 
another person, in which case the base duration is one turn. Grades ofSuccess: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Ring of Truth: By sensing the currents of destiny, you can tell if something is a 
truth or falsehood. The very forces of destiny tell you whether a statement has 
profundity. With a successful static Social Challenge (difficulty of the subject’s Social 
Traits),youcandeterminewhetherthelastthingthatsomeonesaidwasalie.Tnisonly 
tells you whether the subject believes what he says, though, and only works if the 
answerhassomerelevance tothesubject-ifthesubjectdoesn’tknowtherealanswer, 
thenanyresponsesimplyresults in“Thesubjectdoesn’tknow.”GradesofSuccess: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. During this 
duration, you may choose to make a Social Challenge for any statement you Overhear. 
For one grade of success, you may cast this spell on someone else. 
INITIATE (BASIC) ENTRBPY: CBNTRBL 
PRBBABILITY 
The loom of Fate responds to gentle pulls by bending and swaying as desired. 
Although you can’t always determine the final outcome, since the threads are 
too tangled for easy viewing, you can make adjustments that will be favorable 
or harmful. You can tell when something is a natural order or a chaotic one, and 
you may even influence the odds of such orders. 
Beginner’s Luck: You take a shot at something and hope that it goes right. 
You try to get something to happen correctly just by beginner’s luck. When you 
don’t have the appropriate Ability to make a challenge, you can cast this Effect 
instead. If you succeed, you may make the challenge normally: Your Beginner’s 
Luck gives you a chance at success. However, you may only bend fate this way once 
per game session. Fortune is too fickle to treat you a beginner for long. Grades of 
Success: For one grade of success, you may cast this Effect on another person. 
Games of Luck: “Apparently, nobody told the bookies in the Bronx about 
me.” Manipulations of luck allow you to gain absurdly favorable odds in 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


situations of total chance. You can influence your roll of dice or your fall of cards. 
Although doing so becomes increasingly improbable because of the Domino 
Effect, you can take a few shots at good luck. When you cast this Effect in a 
situation of total chance (like rolling dice or generating a random number), you 
may take two chances on the next turn (roll a second time, pick a new number, 
etc.) and take the better result. Grades of Success: Each grade of success lets you 
pick another chance element (another die roll, another number, etc.). For one 
grade of success, you may cast this Effect on another person. You may choose 
whether the subject gets the better pick or the worse pick. 
~
L
~
~
~
~
You can now recognize the hand of Entropy in other Patterns, and you can 
even affect it to some degree. Although you can’t avert the eventual fate of all 
things, you can arrest decrepitude in a subject temporarily or accelerate the process 
of decay. Only set Patterns like material objects or forces can be so dissipated. The 
constantly changing Patterns of Life remain too fluid for you to alter. 
Like Clockwork: You invest a machine or pattern of force with greater strength and 
resistance todecayorchange.TheitemgainsoneadditionalTraittoresistdamage,nad 
corrosion, error or runningdown. This Effect does not improve the Bonus Traits of a 
weapn,armorordevice.ItsimplygrantsaTraitforpuqxwsofresistingdamage.TheEffect 
lasts for one scene or hour. Grades ofsuccess: Every two full grades of success allow you to 
extend the Effect’s duration by one grade or add an additional health level to the item. 
Slay Machine: You reduce a device to rubble. You cause iron to rust, plastic to 
warp, wood to rot and complex electronics or mechanics to become befouled and 
useless. The spell causes the item in question to lose one Trait or health level 
immediately. If the item loses all of its Traits/ health levels, it collapses into a useless 
heap. You do not need to make an attack to use this power. Rather, you affect the 
entropy that naturally occurs in an object or system. Grades ofsuccess: Every two full 
grades of success inflict another Trait or health level of damage on the item. 
ADEPT 
(INTEW~EDIAT~ 
E N T R ~ :  
AWKT LIFE 
At this point, you’ve learned to sense and manipulate even the complex 
patterns of chance that work around living beings. You can change their fate and 
fortune or cause them to fall ill with bad luck and curses. Your command of the 
cycle of life and death is strong. Although you cannot kill someone immediately, 
you can certainly cause him great misfortune. 
Blight of Aging: By speeding the course of Entropy through a living subject, 
you cause it to age, sicken or fall prey to injury. You cause the subject to suffer 
from one Negative Physical Trait of your choice. Otherwise, you cause the 
subject to make a Simple Test (win or tie) If he loses the test, one level of damage 
from the attack is considered one category more severe (bashing to lethal, lethal 
to aggravated). You do not need to make an attack challenge. You simply affect 
the natural patterns of Entropy in the target. The Effect lasts for one minute or 
conflict. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s 
duration by one grade or add an additional Negative Physical Trait. 
Midwife’s Blessing: By casting good fortune over a living being, you make it 
resistant to harm or disease. The subject becomes more likely to avoid damage, and 
it has a better chance to recover from deleterious conditions. You can remove one 
Negative Physical Trait that has been inflicted by magic, disease, poison or the like, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


although you can’t cancel a natural Negative Trait. Alternately, you can shield the 
subject against harm. Each time the subject takesdamage, it gains a Simple Test. On 
a win or tie, one level of the damage becomes one category less severe (bashing to 
none, lethal to bashing, aggravated to lethal). The effects last for one minute or 
conflict. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s 
duration by one grade or cure one additional Negative Physical Trait. 
~ S T E R  
(ADVANCED) 
EWRWY: A ~ C T  
THCBUGHT 
Not only can you disperse physical Patterns, you can affect ephemeral and 
ideological constructs. You can make a maze of streets seem more random and 
confusing, change someone’s mind or turn the passing of minutes and hours into 
a welter of jumping progressions. Your control of destiny allows you to mark 
future fate and place traces of Entropy through time. 
Binding Oath: You place a compulsion on a willing subject and enforce it 
with the power of Fate and Destiny. Should the subject choose to break the oath, 
he suffers the full weight of misfortune immediately. Anyone capable of sensing 
Entropy (with Locate Disorder and Weakness) can tell immediately that the 
individual is an oathebreaker, and the subject immediately loses all temporary 
Willpower Traits. This oath lasts for one scene or hour. Grades ofsuccess: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Mutate Ephemera: The roads of chance carry off even thought, space and 
time. You can destroy a subject’s thoughts, causing the victim to suffer a Negative 
Mental Trait of your choice for one conflict. You also stun the victim with 
indecision for her next turn if you win a subsequent Mental Challenge. Placing 
good or bad luck over an area, you cause it to prosper or wither at your command, 
so that a subject’s mundane Background of Allies, Contacts, Influence or Resources 
gains or loses one level for a single downtime, Note that you can affect only one 
Background and subject at a time thus. You can’t grant fortune to all of your 
Backgrounds while cursing all of your adversary’s. Grades of Success: No effect. 
P€BRCES 
The most vulgar and dynamic mages are those who study Forces. Every 
universal power and energy is the bailiwick of this Sphere. Through Forces, a 
mage manipulates fire, light, electricity, sound and their opposites cold, dark- 
ness, stillness and silence. Every force is essentially a Pattern of Quintessence in 
motion. With this magic, the mage senses and manipulates those Patterns. 
Different forces have different Effects. If you hit someone with electricity, 
the damage is bashing, but it penetrates most armor. You will usually incapaci- 
tate a foe before killing. Kinetic damage can be bashing or lethal at your choice, 
depending on whether you spread it over an area or strike in a point or edge. 
Extreme cold inflicts lethal damage. Fire damage is aggravated. Silence or 
darkness “damage” causes the subject to lose the sense in question for the 
duration of the Effect. The Forces Sphere tends to inflict a lot of damage 
compared to other Spheres, and it has other special combat Effects as well (such 
as setting things on fire or crushing them). 
APPWNTICE 
(BASIC) FCBRCES: 
PERCEIVE FCBRCES 
YoucansenselocalPattemsofforce.Kineticenergy,radiowaves, 
heat sourcesandthe 
like are all clearly visible to you. Sources of forces like batteries and radioactive substances 
are outlined clearly to your perceptions, even if those forces are normally invisible. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Darksight: By tuning your senses to infrared, sound waves or the like, you 
become capable of seeing even in darkness. You might take on the senses of a 
type of animal or borrow the capability to see elemental animas. Whatever the 
case, you suffer no penalties for darkness. The Effect lasts for one minute or 
conflict. You may grant these senses to another person, in which case they have 
a base duration of only one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows 
you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade. 
Quantify Energy: You become aware of the types and quantities of energy 
around you. You can clearly see the Forces shield of another mage, spot invisible 
radiation or even see radio waves in the air (although you don't understand 
them). You gain a +1 Trait bonus to control or channel energy. Most forms of 
energy rely on Science, Computer and Technology Ability, for instance. The Effect 
lasts for one minute or conflict. You may grant these senses to another person, 
in which case they have a base duration of only one turn. Grades of Success: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade. 
INITIATE (BASIC) FCBRCES: 
CCBNTRCBL 
~ I N C B R  
P~RCES 
Although you can't yet create forces or change them into other forces, you can 
redirect and divert them. You can bend sound waves so that they travel in a 
different direction, cause light to bend around yourself or alter kinetic motion. 
Your control extends to a single force or collection that affects something up to the 
size of aperson. Attacks made with these Forces Effects inflict one level of damage. 
Electrical Chaos: By shifting the flow of electricity or diverting it to different 
concentrations, you cause it to play havoc with a piece of electronic machinery. 
A targeted electrical device (like a car starter or a computer) goes haywire and 
becomes useless for a full turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you 
to extend the Effect's duration by one grade or to affect one additional Pattern. 
Energy Shield: A barrier that diverts one type of force defends you against 
certain attacks. You can pick one type of force to shield against: kinetic energy, 
light, heat, sound, hard radiation and so on. Anything that relies on said force loses 
two health levels of effectiveness when it strikes you. Therefore, you could easily 
8 block most minor attacks. A shield against light bends light around you and makes 
' you physically invisible, although it renders you blind as well. A shield against 
sound makes you totally silent but unable to hear. A shield against gravity allows 
you to float effortlessly, although you'd have to push off from something in order 
to move. The shield persists for a full turn. You may grant this shield to another 
person, in which case it has a base duration of only one turn. Alternatively, you 
- could redirect an existing force by making an attack challenge so that it strikes a 
target, and the force would score one level of damage (presumably bashing, lethal 
or aggravated based on the attack type). You could, therefore, make a swung fist 
feel like it connected with someone else or cause a sword-blow to injure adifferent 
target. Eachforceshieldorformofredirection (such asFire Shield, Kinetic Shield, 
Redirect Cold, Redirect Silence and so on) is a different rote. Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success allows you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade, 
except for an attack. For an attack, each grade of success inflicts an extra level of 
damage or allows you to affect one additional Pattern. 
, 
! 
, 
: 
DISCIPLE 
( I N T ~ ~ I A T ~  
%RCB T W S ~ E  
~I~NCBR%RC
I a 
Not only can you manipulate small forces or groups of forces, you can 
* change them into other types of forces. You can turn sound into electricity, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


convert fire into darkness or replace kinetic energy with radio waves. Channel- 
ing and redirecting local forces allows you to create bolts of lightning or fly 
through the air. Attacks with this level of Forces typically inflict two levels of 
damage, unless some other special effect is added on. 
Friction Curse: You turn the subject’s kinetic energy into heat or cold. 
Each time the subject takes a physical action, it must win a Simple Test. Failure 
inflicts one level of lethal damage and means that the action fails. This Effect 
typically lasts one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to 
extend the Effect’s duration by one grade or to affect one additional Pattern. 
Telekinesis: By manipulating local forces and turning them into kinetic 
energy (or altering the direction of other kinetic forces), you can grab an object 
or person, shove it around or hammer into it. You can similarly transmute forces 
into fire, lightning or the like. The end result is the same. You can snatch and 
move an object at walking speed by winning a Mental vs. Physical Challenge, 
or you can attack it magically for three levels of lethal damage (aggravated if you 
convert forces to fire). You can even lift yourself up and fly. Duration of the 
Effect is one turn. To manipulate an object, you must exert full concentration. 
Grades ofSuccess: Eachgrade of success allows you to extend the Effect’sduration 
by one grade, except on an attack. For an attack, each grade of success inflicts 
an extra level of damage or allows you to affect one additional Pattern. 
ADEPT 
(INTEIUI-I!EDIAT~ F~RCES: 
CCBNTREBL 
~ A I ~ R  
F~RCES 
Having surpassed the simpler elements, you now have mastery over com- 
plex mixtures of force, grandiose displays and the chaotic coruscations of Forces z 
Patterns far beyond your own scale. You can redirect huge concentrations of 
energy or even powerful primal forces like radiation and gravity. Your ability to 
focus and channel forces typically causes attacks that inflict two health levels of 
damage, barring some other special effect. 
Embracing the Earth Mother: Gravity intensifies around the subject, 
pinning it in place and causing injury. The subject must beat you in a challenge 
of his Physical Traits versus your Mental Traits to even be capable of movement. 
Even if he wins, he still suffers two levels of lethal crushing damage each turn. 
Alternatively, you could intensify forces such as heat, causing the victim to burst 
into flames, or you could redirect forces away from yourself for major protection. 
A direct Forces attack (like channeling a huge stroke of lightning) at this level 
inflicts two health levels of damage, based on the attack type. A force shield of 
this magnitude blocks the first two levels of any such attack against you. Any of 
these manifestations except a strike lasts for one minute/ conflict if you cast it ,t 
upon yourself, or one turn if you cast it upon someone else. Each type of attack :I 
or shield (Channel Fire, Deflect Radiation and so on) is a different rote. Grades : 
ofSuccess: Each grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’sduration by one 
grade, except for an attack. For an attack, each grade of success inflicts an extra 
level of damage or allows you to affect one additional Pattern. 
Storm Watch: You manipulate titanic forces to control the weather. You 
can settle fog over a small area, disperse clouds, cause gentle rain on an otherwise 
clear day and so on. Once conjured, the weather takes a normal course. Unless 
it’s maintained, for instance, snow disperses rapidly or rain pours down and then 
ends. Since you’re only redirecting existing forces, you can’t make major 
changes to the weather. The Narrators and Storyteller should alert the game’s ’ 
21 
1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


other players to changes of this magnitude. To manipulate weather continu- 
ously, you must exert your full concentration. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
~~,.ST~R(&VANCED) %RCB: T R A N S ~ E  
~€IAKDR%RCB 
The fearsome Master of Forces can open raging volcanoes and sent hurri- 
canes ripping through a city. (Given enough time and effort, of course.) Any 
great force can not only be manipulated but transformed as well. The mage can 
grab all of the kinetic energy in an area and turn it to silence, for instance, 
rendering a battlefield immediately still and quiet. Strikes with this level of 
Forces typically inflict three health levels of damage, perhaps even reducing an 
opponent to cinders on the spot. 
Inferno: You grab all the local forces of heat, light, energy, whatever, and turn 
them into a raging blast that consumes the target. You make anormal attack. If you 
are successful, the subject suffers three health levels of damage of a type appropriate 
to the strike immediately. You can also spread the damage over a large area, inflicting 
a level of damage on everyone in a room if they fail to evade your mass attack. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success inflicts an extra health level of damage. 
Tempest in a Teapot: You turn tremendous forces to your whims in order to 
make major manipulations to the weather. You can change local weather patterns 
as you desire: Perhaps you disperse clouds while heating the area, or you chill a place 
as winds die down and snow starts to form. The Effect typically lasts for one turn. To 
manipulate weather continuously, you must exert full concentration. Grades of 
Success: Eachgradeofsuccessallows you toextendtheEffect’sdurationbyonegrade. 
All living, growing things undergo constant change. The Patterns of Life take 
in and give out Quintessence in a dance that connects them fundamentally to the 
universe. With Life magic, the mage can sense and guide these beautiful and resilient 
Patterns. At first, the mage has only rudimentary awareness of the most fragile Life, 
but with time and experience, she learns to see the deeper secrets of complex and self- 
ems, until she becomes able to shape the experience ofLife to her desires. 
s to create new beings, to change living creatures or to spur an early death. 
Life magic that is used to harm often manifests as lesions or hemorrhaging. Such 
attacks often strike as mystical black energies or as “coincidental” diseases or injuries. 
Using Llfe magic to heal is vulgar if the Effect heals aggravated wounds. Plus, after 
a subject is healed with Life magic, further Life healing magic cannot be used on it 
- 
again until it has suffered new injuries. Typically a mage is better at healing himself 
than at healing or harmingothers. With the Basic levels of power, the mage can heal 
a onehealthlevelofpersonalinjury. Withlntermediatepower, hecanheal twohealth 
levels. With Advanced power, he can heal three health levels. All of these limits 
I decrease by one level when the mage uses them on someone else. 
ing another Life Pattern generally requires a magical attack, be it a 
ell or a hands-on manipulation. 
NTICE (BASIC) LIFE: SENSE 
LIFE 
The mage has an intuitive awareness of living things. The mage can feel the 
existence of life all around her, and she can hone her perceptions to watch its 
I , 1% energies flow. Simple magics allow her to determine age, gender, state of health 
and the like with ease. 
I I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Life Scan: With a simple scrying tool, you search out nearby Life Patterns and 
identify them. You may separate friend from foe easily even under harsh or low- 
visibility conditions, and you can determine the presence and number of other 
entities, even those that are otherwise physically invisible (such as rats hiding in 
a trash can or a mage bending light away with Forces magic). As long as you can 
sense a target, you can determine immediately whether it’s someone you know. 
Even if it’s not, you can tell its general type if it’s something you’ve encountered 
before. You would recognize a dog or human easily, but you might know only that 
a werewolf or yeti was “something never before encountered.” The Effect lasts for 
one minute or conflict. You may grant these senses to another person, in which 
case, they have a base duration of only one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Prayer of Healing Revelation: A simple prayer, chant or divination 
grants you vision of a subject’s health. You recognize the flaws in a Life Pattern 
that indicate illness, poisons, physical weaknesses and the like. You determine 
automatically the remaining health levels of any creature you sense, and if you 
win a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of the subject’s Mental Traits), you 
can determine one Negative Physical Trait of a subject with a turn of scrutiny. 
You gain a one Trait resolution bonus on tests involving health or physical 
condition (1ikeMedicine). The Effect lasts for one minute or conflict. You may 
grant these senses to another person, in which case they have a base duration 
of only one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to extend 
the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
INITIATE (BASIC) LIFE: ALTER 
SI~PLE 
PATERNS 
The early manipulation of Life Patterns begins with those most near and 
familiar. The simple Patterns of rudimentary life forms and the mage’s own 
Pattern. The willworker can influence the growth processes of simple creatures 
(from bacteria to plants) and cause them to grow in specific ways, although she 
can’t yet make them take on totally new characteristics. She can also affect her 
own Pattern as well, encouraging growth and healing. 
Alter Simple Creature: You reshape some of the simple threads of a basic 
Life Pattern. Doing so encourages or discourages growth and healing. As a result, 
you can cause the subject to heal one health level or to suffer one health level 
of lethal or bashing damage. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you 
to heal or inflict another health level, or to affect an additional creature. 
Heal Self: Because you are most familiar with your own Life Pattern, you 
can mend your wounds and heal your injuries. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows you to heal another health level or affect an additional creature. 
The mage can now grasp and manipulate simple life forms, changing them 
to suit her whims and mutating them into new shapes as long as the base body 
form remains roughly similar. She can encourage or discourage simple growth in 
more complex Patterns, up to and including herself. Although she can’t yet 
transform complex Patterns completely, she begins to learn to influence them, 
and she can make a startling array of personal changes. 
Better Body: You improve your own Pattern as desired, gifting yourself with 
increased speed, better strength, more health, body armor or similar benefits. The 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


only limits are your imagination and skill. When you invoke Better Body, you may 
choose one of the following benefits: gain three Physical Traits, gain one extra 
Healthy health level, gain the ability to resist one level of bashing or lethal damage 
from each attack by winning a Simple Test, act first in each turn, gain a physical 
survival change (gills, wings, temperature tolerance) , gain natural weapons (strike 
for lethal damage). This Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. You can also use this 
Effect on plants or simple creatures (bacteria, algae and the like), with a base 
duration of one turn. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success allows you to invoke 
one additional benefit or increase the Effect’s duration by one grade. Each grade 
of duration that elapses causes the subject to suffer one bashing health level of 
damage that cannot be soaked or healed until the Effect ends. 
Rip the Man-Body: The Euthanatoi practice cutting Patterns apart to 
inflict injury. Conversely, reversals of the process can heal. You can inflict or 
cure one health level of lethal or bashing damage on any subject. Grades of 
Success: Each grade of success allows you to heal or inflict another health level 
or to affect an additional creature. 
AEPT (INERIITEDIATE) LIR: ALTERCCB~PLEX 
PATTERNS 
Your command ofLife Patterns allows you to metamorphose yourself entirely, 
to reshape simple creatures into whatever form you desire or to make complex 
transformations to the Patterns of people and higher animals. You can assume any 
living shape you wish, turn plants into crabs or fish into lizards, andevengift people 
with unnatural capabilities and extensions of their normal limits. 
Mutate Form: As with Better Body, you create modifications to a Life 
Pattern, but you can do so in any other creature. You could, for instance, give 
another person gills or the like. If you rework your personal Pattern, you can 
transform it into something else entirely. You can become a lion, a bird, a small 
tree or the like. Similarly, you can twist a simple Pattern into any other simple 
shape (such as by turning leaves into lobster, for instance). 
If you work this Effect upon yourself, the base duration is one minute/ 
conflict. If you work it on something else, the base duration is one turn. If you 
remain in a foreign form for more than a day, you must expend a Willpower Trait 
each day or else lose your mind and become the very creature that you have 
transmuted into. If you do not spend this Trait, you will stay in the form forever 
with the mind of a beast (or plant) until someone counters the magic. Grades of 
Success: Each grade of success allows you to invoke one additional benefit or 
increase the Effect’s duration by one grade. Each grade of duration that elapses 
causes an enhanced subject to suffer one bashing health level of damage that 
cannot be soaked or healed until the Effect ends. You do not suffer this damage 
for transmuting yourself into a new form, but you risk losing your mind if you stay 
changed for too long. 
Physiological Emotion Control: Stimulation of various hormones, es- 
sences and bodily functions causes a subject’s behavior to shift as you desire. You 
’ cause the subject to experience one emotion of your choice if you win a Social 
e ” Challenge against the subject’s Physical Traits. Use one simple word (such as 
love, anger, fear, curiosity, etc.) to describe the emotion. The subject should 
~ roleplay this feeling (have a Narrator enforce if necessary). The Effect lasts for 
one minute/conflict. Grades ofSuccess: You can affect one additional subject per 
grade, or you can increase the duration by one grade for each grade of success. 
; 
‘ I ’  
~ 
’ 
‘ 
s :; ; ; ’ 
1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


rThs-rm(&v~~cd T R A N ~ ~ C C B ~ L ~  
PATTERNS 
The mage can totally rewrite his own Pattern, turning into whatever shape 
he desires. Simple creatures can be similarly mutated into any end state, while 
complex creatures may be altered in large ways to turn them into other creatures 
or gift them with unnatural abilities. 
Animal Form: You turn the subject into an animal. You could turn men 
into pigs or dogs into soldiers, at your whim. You must make a magical attack to 
strike. If you succeed, the subject transforms for one minute/ conflict. A subject 
that remains in animal form for more than a day must expend Willpower to 
retain its original mind, as with Mutate Form. Healing a subject repairs two 
health levels of damage, or you may cause two health levels of direct injury. 
Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to affect an additional 
creature or to add one grade of duration. 
Perfect Metamorphosis: When you alter your own Pattern, you may do so to 
suit any of your whims. You can shift into any form from clam to eagle and anything 
else you can imagine, even creating the traits of an imaginary creature. You take on 
the capabilities of the specified entity, although you may not know how to use them, 
and you do not gain additional magical powers automatically. (Therefore, you could 
fly as a bird, albeit clumsily, but you could not breathe fire as a dragon.) You remain 
shifted for one minute/ conflict, but you never suffer any difficulties of mentality in 
this state because you merge your Pattern with the characteristics of the desired 
creature. With a complex spell, you can whisk away age, injury or disease, healing 
yourself of three levels of damage or curing up to three inflicted Negative Physical 
Traits. Healing is instant and lasting, so the wounds don’t reappear later. Grades of 
Success: Each grade of success allows you to heal an additional level of damage, to 
remove an additional Negative Physical Trait or to add one grade of duration. 
r€IATER 
Base matter may be crude and simple, but it forms the vast stretches of the 
inanimate world. Any Pattern that is sedate and without living qualities or 
energetic characteristics is the purview of Matter, which encompasses a large 
quantity of things that a mage might manipulate. 
APPRENTICE 
(BASIC) ~TJATTER: 
~-~ATTER 
PERCEPTICBNS 
A mage’s simple enchantments, experiments and studies allow for precise 
measurements of matter, including determinations of its magical and physical charac- 
teristics, hidden features and near-exact scientific statistics. For some mages, this 
knowledge comes through alchemical analysis or intuitive touch. Others use techno- 
logical devices, mysterious powders, experimental light-beams or weights and measures. 
Analyze Substance: You can determine the gross properties of a piece of 
matter immediately. You know what sort of substance it is (or isn’t), how much 
mass it has, what it can hold, what sorts of properties it has, whether it’s ductile 
or flammable and so on. You gain a one Trait bonus on the resolution of any 
challenge that involves influencing, building or destroying pure Matter that you 
sense in this fashion, such as using Crafts to make an item or just hitting 
something with a hammer to break it. 
The Effect lasts for one minute or conflict. You may grant these sensa to 
another person, in which case they have a base duration of only one turn. Grades of 
Success: Eachgrade of success allows you to extend the Effect’sduration by one grade. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Fragments of Dream: Careful scrutiny of a Matter Pattern allows you to 
determine its hidden features and special qualities. If a particular item has 
concealed compartments, secret catches, traps or the like, you can discern them 
immediately (although you may need to make a Static Mental Challenge if 
they’re particularly cunningly built). The difficulty varies based on the Storyteller’s 
discretion. You can even sense Patterns within or beyond other Mutter Patterns, 
up to a range of 15 paces plus three paces per Arete Trait. 
The Effect lasts for one minute or conflict. You may grant these senses to another 
wmn, in which case thev have a base duration of only one turn. Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success extends the Effect’s duration by one grade or doubles-its range. 
INITIATE (BASIC) ~ ~ ~ A T T E R :  
BASIC TRANS~UTATIGN 
Although the mage can’t actually change matter from one form into another 
yet, he can alter the basic composition of homogenous substances. A chunk of 
brick turns into a loaf of bread, or a metal wire becomes apiece of straw. The caster 
can turn nearly any common material substance into another substance, as long 
as the mage doesn’t transmute its shape or state magically, or alter its properties 
from the norms of the object. That is, the mystic can make a jug of wine turn into 
gasoline, but he couldn’t change it into rock or air (because that would change 
state) or into jet fuel (because that’s too complex a substance). 
Melt and Reform: You turn anobject into an easily malleable substance, such 
as turning a rock wall into clay or a steel statue into butter. You can manipulate 
the resulting material easily. Once it transforms back, it retains whatever shape 
changes you made. If you have an appropriate Crafts skill, you could even make 
works of art from otherwise rigid or brittle materials like obsidian, all with your bare 
hands. The material retains the melted form for one turn. Grades of Success: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Straw into Gold: Through alchemical transformation or pseudo-scientific 
manipulations, you cause an object to turn from one substance into another. If 
you use a vulgar Effect, you can turn simple substances into gold, diamonds, 
titanium or other valuables, as long as they retain a homogenous substance. 
With a coincidental working, you can cause a subject to seem stronger than it 
first appeared or perhaps more valuable than a first glance might have indicated. 
The Effect lasts for one turn, just long enough to strengthen or weaken an 
object or allow it to use special characteristics of the new form. Grades ofSuccess: 
Each grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
With enoughsuccesses, you might manage to turn a simple object into avaluable 
one long enough to bilk a merchant once. 
DISCIPLE 
(INWIUI-IEDIAT~ 
I ~ T T E R :  
ALTER 
FCERITI 
With metaphysical motions, the willworker can stretch, compress or alter basic 
Matter Patterns. The object in question responds, perhaps even without a physical 
touch, and quivers, reshapes and changes state according to the mage’s manipulations. 
Destroy Structures: You tear apart the Pattern and remove the bonds that hold 
an item together. A series of quick manipulations causes it to fall apart or disperse 
into dust or gas. Each use of the Effect causes the item to lose one health level or one 
Trait. Ifitlosesallofitshealthlevels/Traits, 
itdisintegrates.Youmustmakeanattack 
to affect an object that someone else is holding. Grades ofSuccess: Each additional 
grade of success causes one additional health level/ Trait of damage. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Sculpture: Instead of changing an object’s composition and shaping the 
resulting putty, you just grab and manipulate the Pattern of any object you can 
sense. The object changes shape in response to your ministrations. You can make 
a sword bend or even cause a set of clothing to wrap around and constrict the 
wearer, perhaps preventing movement for a turn or so as the subject tries to fight 
his way out. You must make an attack to affect an object someone else is holding. 
You can typically manipulate an object as if you could shape it with both hands, 
to the limits of what you could do in one turn. Grades of Success: No effect. 
ADEFT 
( k m m ~ ~ d  
~ € I A T T ~  
C~IPLW 
T R A N ~ ~ ~
No Pattern is immutable to the mage. Matter Patterns can be combined 
freely, changed in state, mixed with other properties or otherwise transformed 
as you choose. You can cause an object to take on some property of some other 
object briefly, or you can combine two objects into a resulting alloy. 
Alloy: You press two items together and cause them to turn into a 
homogenous substance. Doing so can be as simple as shoving a bar of steel into 
a block of wood without resistance, or as complex as finely mixing together a 
combination of gold and ash. The two objects have a shared set of properties. For 
instance, the block of wood could still bum, while the mixture of gold and ash 
could be sprinkled as a glittering, blackened dust. You should have a Narrator 
make a special item card for your alloy. Once merged, the two objects remain 
combined. You can merge any two objects that you could push together with 
your hands. Grades ofSuccess: No effect. 
Transformers: You reshape and repair an item easily with your Matter skills 
or cause it to take on totally new shapes and properties. Therefore, you could 
sharpen an ancient sword or repair the tiny clockworks of an ancient pocket-watch 
all by magic, as long as you have the right knowledge of Crafts, Science or 
Technology. Your transformations are limited only by your theoretical knowledge. 
You can change the item’s properties as long as it doesn’t exceed the powers of your 
Matter skills. (So unless you’re a Master, you can’t work with radioactive properties 
or actual violations of mass/density/volume.) You don’t have to actually work the 
item, just use your magic. You might (for instance) sprinkle a little powder or oil 
over something and magically find that it works better than ever. The resulting 
transformation lasts for one minute/ conflict. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success allows YOU to extend the Effect’s duration bv one made. 
; 
_n 
No longer constrained to physical common sense, the mage can rebuild an 
object with any combination of physical properties. Items can be transmuted 
easily into strange and irrational substances, or they can even be made to change 
their interactions with other matter. 
Alter Weight: You change the weight properties of objects, generally by 
doubling or halving them. An object that you affect doesn’t change size, density 
or strength, but its weight does change. You might be able to push around a car 
made lighter, or you could make a sword too heavy to use. An item with increased 
weight doubles its Negative Traits of Heavy, Clumsy or Slow (a Heavy sword 
becomes Heavy x2) in addition to its actual weight change. A lighter object may 
no longer be Heavy or Slow, but it will certainly be more Clumsy (trade the Traits), 
because it’s too light to wield effectively. However, you can certainly pick up 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


objects made lighter, or make something too heavy to move. A heavy car wouldn’t 
be drivable, for instance. A Narrator may be necessary to moderate these Effects, 
as they can be quite wide-ranging. You can affect only one object at a time, and 
the Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Matter Association: Reworking a Pattern’s associations, you cause it todissociate 
from other forms of Matter, or to take on special new associations. For instance, you 
could make a bullet that acts like acid when it hits kevlar, or one that just passes right 
through kevlar entirely. You can only cause a given Pattern to exhibit one form of 
dissociation or customized association. Therefore, your sword might pass right through 
your foe’s kevlar vest (and ignore its Traits), but it wouldn’t be able to also pass through 
his metal rifle. The change lasts for one minute/conflict. Grades ofSuccess: Each grade 
of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
~ I N D  
Will focuses magic, and thought leads to Pattern, but where does the mind 
begin? Mages may not know the answer, but many study the secrets of conscious- 
ness intently. Even divested of physical form, the Sphere of Mind carries potent 
secrets. A skilled mage can manipulate thoughts, project emotions, command 
others and even send his awareness reeling through the cosmos to pluck secrets 
from places where the material body cannot go. 
~ P R E ~ C E  
(BASIC) ~ I N D  
SENSE 
THWGHTS 
AND E~I-ICDTICBNS 
Even crude mastery of Mind improves a mage’s skills far beyond human norms. 
The mage becomes hypersensitive to emotions and mental states, including his own. 
By focusing his will, he can clear his mind, focus on multiple subjects, channel his 
Mind Empowerment: With a few simple exercises, you clear your thoughts 
and improve your focus immensely. You can function like a skilled calculator 
and process information rapidly, enhance your memory and even concentrate 
on multiple things, allowing you to think about a problem while taking an 
action. You can carry and use a calculator or notepad to simulate this mental 
prowess even if your character doesn’t have such a device, as long as this Effect 
is working. With a static Mental Challenge (difficulty of the opponent’s Mental 
Traits), you can see auras, allowing you to sense the emotional state of your 
subject or tell if he’s lying. You gain a one-Trait bonus to resolution of all Mental 
Challenges. This Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. If you cast this Effect on 
someone else, the Effect has a base duration of one turn. Grades of Success: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade or gain 
an additional one-Trait bonus to resolution of Mental Challenges. If you 
improve your Mental bonus to more than one Trait, you suffer one unhealable 
and unsoakable level of bashing damage for each time grade of the duration, due 
to your Pattern’s stress of holding an overly charged superhuman capability. 
No-Mind: Clearing away your thoughts, you become sensitized to the 
presence of other minds around you. You can tell if anything within the area has 
a mental Pattern, and you discern animals from people, determine gender and 
sense relative positions automatically. If someone uses concealing magics, you can 
sense the subject if you can win a Mental Challenge against him. Against mental 
invisibility this Effect lets you spot the subject. Against physical invisibility, you 
~. 
I1 ! thoughts with incredible efficiency and sense the presence of thought nearby. 
** 
I 
a 
; 
’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


still can’t see the subject (and, therefore, you suffer a penalty of two Traits and a 
forced retest when striking), but you can detect his presence. This Effect sense lasts 
for the duration of a minute or conflict. You may cast this Effect on another person, 
in which case the base duration is one turn. Grades ofSuccess: Eachgrade of success 
allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
INITIATE (BASIC) ~ I N D :  
  ENTAL I~PULSE 
Now open to the fleeting ways of the mind, the mage can sense and decipher 
basic surface thoughts. Emotions become clear images, and the feelings of 
Resonance are visible. By communicating mental patterns, the mage can send 
emotional impulses or place a strong feeling in an area. 
Empathic Projection: You focus and channel your emotions to send one 
clear emotional impulse to the subject. You must best the subject in a Mental 
Challenge. If you succeed, you can instill one strong emotion. Doing so can have 
a variety of effects. The subject may simply feel a clear emotion that you choose 
to impart, such as hope, fear or anger. This projection is not necessarily a clear 
message, but it can be enough to let the subject know that you intend something. 
You can also force the subject to take one reflex action such as a cough, a laugh 
or a sudden look of panic or sadness. Although this action is little more than a 
distraction, it can be critical in tense social situations. Finally, you can simply 
“scream” a strong emotional pulse into the victim’s mind, inflicting one health 
level of bashing damage. Grades of Success: Each grade allows you to affect one 
additional target or add one level of damage. 
Psychic Impression: You place a large amount of Resonance on an area, giving 
it a Resonance Trait of your choice. This Trait must be a duplicate of one Resonance 
Trait that you have yourself. The Resonance may apply if you cast an appropriate 
spell, or ifsomeoneelse in the areadoes so, and it causestheemotion invested to seem 
to have weight in the locale. The place will hold the emotion that you project into 
it, and even normal people who enter the area can sense it. You should have a 
Narrator place a special Resonance card at the entryways to the room that you invest. 
The Effect typically lastsfor one scene/ hour. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success 
allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
DISCIPLE 
(INTEW~EDIATE) ~ I N D :  
~JZNTAL 
LINK 
The mage can now enter the sublime levels of the mind, probing deep into 
the subconscious. Beyond the layers of surface thought are symbols and con- 
cepts. Altering or playing with these concepts allows the mage to communicate 
without regard for the barriers of language, send thoughts, dive into dreams or 
discern the meanings behind various languages. 
Probe Thoughts: By besting a subject in a Mental Challenge, you can 
penetrate his thoughts and bore into the subject’s memory or senses. You can 
demand that the subject relay to you a minute or conflict’s worth of memory or 
sensory information. As you probe for thoughts, they come to the fore of the 
subject’s mind unbidden, so the victim may be aware that something is amiss, 
even ifhe can’t defend himself. A probe of this sort takes a full turn, and it garners 
one piece of information or allows you to ask one question that the subject must 
answer truthfully to the best of his belief. If a subject doesn’t honestly know 
something or is wrong, you get that information with no way to verify it. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success allows you to ask an additional question. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Telepathy: True thought-transmission lets the mage send and receive 
impulses and ideas stripped beyond language. You can exercise Telepathy to 
engage in silent communication. (Put two fingers to your temple to indicate the 
use of Telepathy.) Unless someone else uses Telepathy, this conversation can’t be 
overheard, although someone using No-Mind will be aware that it is taking place, 
and someone who uses Probe Thoughts on you or your target will realize that 
Telepathy is in effect. If you try to send a thought or engage in aconversation with 
an unwilling subject, you must best him in a Mental Challenge. Subjects are 
unwilling by default, since it requires actual consent and concentration to lower 
one’s mental defenses. This Effect allows you to communicate for one minute/ 
conflict freely. You may instead choose to send a blast of telepathic energy, which 
inflicts two health levels of bashing damage on a successful Mental Challenge. 
Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to add one additional subject 
to the telepathic linkage or extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
ADEPT 
(INTENIIEDIATE) ~ I N D :  
CCDNTRCDL 
CCBNSCICDUS 
~ I N D  
Not only can the mage read thoughts and decipher languages, he can 
implant his own thoughts and impress his behaviors upon a subject. The mage 
can invade a mind and overtake it or use her own thoughts to shield it. 
Manipulate Memory: You force your thoughts into the subject’s subconscious 
mind and rewrite his memories. You can describe to the subject the memory that you 
implant. Doing so takes only a turn and a Mental Challenge, but you can overwrite the 
subject’s memory with anything you can imagine, no matter how bizarre or surreal, or 
you can simply erase the memories forever. You can affect up to one minute’s or 
conflict’s worth of memory. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to 
extend the length of memory that you can manipulate by one duration grade. 
Possession: If you can defeat an opponent in a Mental Challenge after 
casting this Effect, you overlay his thoughts and force your own into the victim’s 
mind. In game terms, your body becomes comatose but you take control of the 
victim. You direct the victim’s body to move and react as you desire, although 
the subject will not violate his Nature or commit a blatantly self-destructive act. 
You can choose to take partial control (causing the subject’s arm to flail about 
; unnaturally, for instance), or you can override the victim’s mind (in which case 
he even thinks that the thoughts are his own, which may in turn lead to him 
thinking he’s crazy). This Effect lasts for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade 
of success extends the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
! 
j : 
~
T
E
R
 
[ADVANCED) 
~ I N D :  PCBRGE 
PSYCHE 
* * 
‘ 
The Master of Mind magic can reshape mental processes and even create or 
guide them from scratch. The mage can untether his psyche to journey in realms 
of mental strangeness, send his consciousness to other planes or even wipe out 
or change the personalities of others. 
Astral Projection: You travel out of your body, which becomes comatose, 
’, and send your consciousness forth to roam on its own. You use Mental Traits for 
’ combat and Willpower in place of health while in this form. Effects that sense 
‘ consciousness will detect your thoughts, but you are otherwise intangible and 
bodiless. Casting magic may be difficult without your foci, but you can return to 
’ 
* your body at will unless you’re somehow trapped or lost. By spending a 
’ I a b  Willpower Trait, you may manifest as a ghostly image for one turn. You can 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


==.---- 
travel at the speed of thought near the physical world, although you must use a 
sensory spell to detect it. You can use Possession to take other bodies while you 
are astrally projected. Indeed, if you lose all of your Willpower, your mind spirals 
off into realms of pure thought, and your only recourse is to somehow find a body 
and take it over. Astral Projection lasts for one scene/ hour. Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success extends the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Create Mind: With a phenomenal feat, you literally create a new mind from 
nothingness. This consciousness has personality traits that you direct but it may 
well grow and change beyond your initial parameters. Unless somehow given a 
body, the mind will drift lost into realms of thought. If you’ve wiped away 
someone’s personality, though (perhaps with Manipulate Memory), you might 
put a new mind in place or you create an alternative personality for yourself. Once 
created, a mind has an existence of its own. You can’t make a mind that has more 
Mental Traits than one less than your total. Grades of Success: No effect. 
PRIlTE 
All things spring from Prime, the Sphere of essential creation. Quintes- 
sence, the very energy of the cosmos, is the energy of Prime. Naturally, Prime is 
at once an intangible and very difficult Sphere to understand, but it is also a 
keystone of magic. Only by use of Prime can mages channel the energy necessary 
to create true Patterns or empowered magical Effects. 
APPRENTICE 
(BASIC) P N ~ E :  
~ H E R I C  
SENSES 
At first, the mage learns to expand his senses into the realms of Quintes- 
sence. The mage can see or sense Quintessence in Patterns or as it flows through 
the Tapestry. The mage can see the power inherent to Nodes or in mages who 
hold great energies and cast potent spells. The mage can also charge his Avatar 
so that Quintessence will flow in harmony with it. Without at least this 
rudimentary knowledge of Prime, the mage can store only that energy he garners 
directly through his Avatar Background. 
Consecration: By suffusing your own Pattern with your natural Qumtes- 
sence, you cause your Resonance to bleed over on to the objects that you carry. 
One item can be consecrated to become attuned specifically to you. The item 
changes with you or travels with you when you perform personal magic. The item 
gains any immunities that you have or any benefits you gain. However, the object 
also becomes an arcane connection back to you, which can make it useful if 
someone captures it and uses it with Correspondence. The object Resonates with 
your energy and grants aone-Trait bonus to anyone who holds it when that enemy ‘1 
works magic against you. A consecrated object retains that quality permanently < 
unless you choose specifically to un-consecrate it. Grades of Success: No effect. 
3 )  
Heart’s Blood: You sacrifice some of your life-force to channel Quintes- 
sence from your own living Pattern. When you cast this Effect, you suffer one 
health level of aggravated damage immediately, but you gain one Quintessence 
Trait. Grades of Success: No effect. 
Watch the Weaving: Prime energy is clear to you, and you see magic in 
motion. You can actually see the weaving in motion as someone casts aspell, and t 1;. 
you can perceive an Effect that’s already in place, such as a Ward. If you see an 
Effect coming with these senses, you can try to use countermagic on it (see p. 
I r, I., 
136), assuming that you have the other Spheres necessary to know what it’s 
; 
~ 
4:. - 
:J - -  - 
I ;. ,* 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


doing. These senses last for one minute/ conflict. You can grant these senses to 
someone else, in which case they last for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade 
of success grants the Effect an extra grade of duration. 
INITJATE [BASIC] PIU~I-IE: 
WEAVE 
G~DYLLIC FCDRCE 
Tiny diversions and whorls of Prime energy help to nudge the Tapestry in 
conjunction with the mage's will. The mage can empower a weapon with mystic 
energy so that it inflicts damage directly to a Pattern, or he may even create a 
shining eldritch weapon or bolt. Quintessence stored in items can be turned to 
magical purposes, making enchanted items. The mage can even use Quintes- 
sence to create entirely new Patterns with other Spheres, essentially making 
something whole from nothingness. 
Body of Light: By weaving a little bit of Prime energy into a mirror of your 
Pattern, you create an etheric body that can house your psyche or soul. This 
Body of Light gives you a form when you travel in astral realms or send your 
psyche with messages. This body can be sensed with Prime (Watch the 
Weaving), and it shields your psyche from harm while you are in other realms 
of thought. ABody of Light lasts as long as you are projecting your consciousness 
elsewhere, and it allows you to use your Quintessence to absorb damage (instead 
of taking it straight to Willpower). Grades of Success: No effect. 
Enchant Weapon: A reweaving and reinforcing of Prime energy causes a 
structure to gain etheric power. The object can become a potent weapon that 
strikes true to the very Pattern of an enemy. You can also enchant an object or 
armor thus so that it has a spiritual and astral form. When you do so, you can 
claim its Traits even against a spirit or an astral attacker (or use it in conjunction 
6 with your Body of Light while you travel to spiritual and mental realms). An 
enchanted weapon inflicts aggravated damage. Using this Effect costs one Trait 
of Quintessence, and it lasts for one minute/ conflict. Grades of Success: Each 
grade of success allows you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade. 
Holy Stroke: With a blast of pure Prime, you stab deep into an enemy's 
Pattern. This attack manifests as a bolt of light or a weapon of glowing energy. 
Creating such a manifestation costs one Trait of Quintessence. The etheric 
weapon inflicts one level of aggravated damage per strike. A bolt of Prime fires 
as a ranged magical attack, while a Prime hand weapon can be used in place of 
a physical blade or bludgeon. If you manifest an actual Prime hand weapon, it 
remains for one minute/ conflict. Grades ofSuccess: Each grade of success allows 
you to extend the Effect's duration by one grade for a Prime hand weapon. 
6 
DISCIPLE 
(INTERI-~EDIATE) PRI~I-IE: 
CHANNEL 
QUINTESSENCE 
8 
' 
The mage can redirect Quintessence easily and shape its many forms. The 
mage can draw Quintessence from various sources, trade it freely and even turn 
magical power sources into enchanted items. Even living beings can be en- 
chanted. Their Quintessential energies become infused with strength to strike 
directly at other Patterns. 
Bond of Blood: Without this rote, you can't draw Quintessence forth from 
Nodes or Tass, nor can you give it to other mages or power sources. With each 
use of this power, you can channel a Trait of Quintessence. Each such transfer 
takes a turn and an Effect. A mage who doesn't have at least Apprentice-level 
Prime can't store more Traits than his Avatar Background, though. 
I ' 
~ 
~ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Often this Effect takes the form of passing around a cup or sharing a drink 
of some sort to symbolize the transfer of power, or anointing an object. The 
mage can also take the Quintessence from an object as it’s destroyed and 
channel a tiny trickle into an Effect. Making a sacrifice of some sort in 
conjunction with this magic lets the mage then spend one free Quintessence 
Trait on an Effect cast immediately thereafter. Once the transfer is done, it 
doesn’t reverse or disappear. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success allows you 
to transfer one additional Quintessence Trait in a turn, although you cannot 
transfer more than your Avatar rating. 
Enchant Life: Just like the Enchant Weapon Effect, you can spend a 
Quintessence Trait to strengthen a Pattern. The individual so enchanted can 
score aggravateddamage with unarmed attacks, and he can strike spirits or other 
ephemera. This Effect lasts for one minute/conflict. You may cast it on someone 
else, in which case it lasts for a turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Lambs to the Slaughter: With the proper rituals and observances, you can 
gain power from a sacrifice. Doing so takes some real work, so you can’t just 
sacrifice something and expect to gain Quintessence. However, if you have a 
raised and cared for sacrificial lamb, a piece of ceremonial jewelry or a similar 
item properly, you can draw Quintessence from its sacred nature. You must use 
an item that’s been raised carefully and invested with the proper energies. 
Typically, a Narrator or Storyteller will have to approve such an item (or 
animal) before play and give you a special card for it; you can’t just buy a 
sacrificial lamb at the grocery store. When you destroy the item or sacrifice the 
animal, you gain one Quintessence Trait for each Trait or health level that it 
has, to a maximum of your Avatar rating. Grades of Success: No effect. 
ADEPT 
(INTERI-I-IEDIATE) PRI~E: 
SUBLI~ATE 
~IUINTESSENCE 
As the name implies, an Adept can perform acts of sublime manipulation 
with Quintessence. The Adept can create magical items, even investing them 
with permanent power if he is skilled and determined enough. Simple unliving 
objects can be turned into reservoirs of Quintessence, and even concentrated 
into a permanent battery. The mage can even release the Quintessence that is 
stored in material nonliving objects in order to send it back to the Tapestry. 
Lastly, the mage can tap into deep reservoirs of Quintessence to gamer 
additional energy, even outside places of power. 
Create Talismans and Artifacts: ATalisman is a mystical device with Arete 
that has been invested with a tiny portion of a mage’s will. An Artifact is an item 
that has the ability to invoke certain magical Effects, or that has been permanently 
magically enchanted. The mage must reweave the Pattern of the item in question, 
investing it with strong Prime energy to reinforce the desired magical works. The 
creation of such a device, although theoretically possible at this level of power, is 
ultimately up to the discretion of the Storyteller. Such a creation can’t be done in 
a single turn. It’s a heroic working to be accomplished over several stories, often 
with associated knowledge of other Spheres required to place the enchantments 
on the item. You can also make a Soulgem, which is a Periapt (an item that stores 
Quintessence as a battery) that can be used only by you. Grades of Success: 
Typically, you must perform an extensive ritual if you’re going to finish the Effect. 
Only a Storyteller can approve the permanent creation of a magical item. 
, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Flames of Purification: This rote takes its name from the Celestial Chorus’ 
version of the spell, in which ghostly fire illumines the subject while banishing 
it from existence. You release the Prime energy from a Pattern and cause it to fade 
from reality. You can attack an object at range. If you succeed, you evaporate one 
of its Traits or health levels with aggravated damage. Doing so can turn the 
object eventually into nothingness, returning the Pattern to the Tapestry. 
Grades ofSuccess: Each grade of success allows you to inflict one additional level 
of damage or drain one additional Trait from the target. 
Wellspring: When you find a place where the Resonance matches up with your 
own Resonance Traits, you can pull out some of that energy to refresh your own 
Pattern. You open yourself to the magical emotions and regain your energies. 
Generally, the place must have a very strong Resonance already. A place with three 
or more Resonance Traits of its own would apply, like a haunted graveyard, a 
mathematical lecture hall dating to antiquity or an ancient fountain where lovers 
congregate. If the place has any Resonance Traits that match your own, you can gain 
one Trait of Quintessence for each matching Resonance Trait. Note that this applies 
only if the area has naturally occurring Resonance. You can’t use Mind magic to place 
Resonanceonanareaandthenhope togainenergyfromit.GradesofSuccess:Noeffect. 
The Masters of Prime hold some of the most potent of magical secrets, 
namely the very secrets of magical energy itself. Such a Master can not only 
redirect Prime energy, but he can summon forth Quintessence or even suffuse 
any sort of Pattern with permanent energies designed to give it magical powers. 
Quintessence can be pulled forth even from living Patterns, dispersing them to 
the Tapestry. The mage can also use Quintessence as a bulwark against Paradox, 
negating the force of Paradox with the very strength of the cosmos. 
Fount of Paradise: You exert a turn of concentration to reseat your Pattern 
with respect to the Tellurian. If you succeed, you refresh the power of your Avatar 
immediately. You regain one Trait of Quintessence instantly. Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success grants an additional Trait of Quintessence, up to the limit 
of your Avatar rating. 
E~,SER(&VANCED) 
Pme: ALTER 
@ U I N T ~ S S ~ L  
F L ~ W  
Paradox Ward: With Quintessential energy, you smooth out the worst 
ripples of Paradox and enhance your magical Effects. You need only cast this 
Effect and spend one Trait of Quintessence in the turn before casting a 
subsequent Effect. The resultant Effect garners one less Trait of Paradox. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success allows you to set one extra Quintessence Trait 
against prospective Paradox. 
Master’s Enchantment: As a Master, you can enchant even living beings 
with magical powers, or create a living form of Tass (magical fruits, empowered 
pets and the like). Much like creating an Artifact or Talisman, this Effect is a 
matter for the Storyteller’s adjudication. This rote is listed solely to note that such 
magics are possible at this level of power, even if they’re not easy. Grades ofSuccess: 
Typically you must use a long-term ritual to finish an enchantment of this nature. 
SPIRIT 
Reflected in myriad mirror worlds are the realms of Spirit. The Spirit realm 
holds ephemeral counterparts to objects, creatures and places. The entities that 
flit about often serve as perfected ideals of some concept, while emotions play 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


such a strong part that they shape the very landscape. The realms of Spirit 
encompass every hope, fear or ideal of humanity, and much more besides. 
Mages who intend to deal with Spirit have a daunting task ahead. Travel 
into the spirit realms became difficult long ago. In the modem age it’s nigh- 
deadly. An unprepared mage who travels into the Umbra may well injure or kill 
himself. Even those who are cautious learn quickly that the Umbra is a volatile 
place, ever-changing and too large to be mapped or cataloged, no matter how 
much mages might try. Only those heroes who would risk forays into the 
unknown through perilous gates dare to walk the Umbra itself. 
Even without traveling to the Umbra, though, a mage with command of 
Spirit has potent power. Spirits themselves manifest in a multitude of forms, and 
an experienced mage can coax, cajole and deal with many of them. Since a 
spirit’s power does not stem from vulgar magics, the entity can often create 
mystical Effects that might be beyond the capabilities or daring of the mage. This 
property of the Sphere allows a mage a great deal of flexibility, for the many spirit 
allies of a diplomatic mage can provide a great deal of variety in their assistance. 
A mage who crosses into the Umbra, or who reaches through to affect a spirit 
there, must suffer the effects of the Avatar Storm. This hazard causes one level of 
aggravated damage for every two Arete Traits the mage has (rounded up). 
A P P w m i c E  [BASIC) SPIRIT: 
SPIRIT 
SENSES 
As with other rudimentary magics, the first thing a mage learns to do with Spirit 
is to sense the spirit world. The mage can see spirits and visualize the landscape of 
nearby spirit planes. If he is looking into the Umbra, the mage sees a twilight world 
that seems like a vibrant reflection of the physical, with subtle changes reflecting 
Resonance. If he is looking in the Shadowlands of the dead, the mage sees the 
decrepit afterlife that holds only decaying memories of things that were. 
Detect Possession: Some spirits have the ability to take over hosts. With 
this simple Effect, you can determine whether a spirit has done so. You simply 
scrutinize a subject for a turn, and you can tell immediately if the individual is 
somehow possessed or influenced by a spirit. You can also tell if a spirit has cast 
its powers over a person, be it for protection or cursing. This detection sense lasts . 
for one minute/ conflict. You may grant this sight to someone else, in which case 
it lasts for a turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of success allows you to extend 
the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Spirit Sight: You allow your material perceptions to fade into the background , 
as you extend your awareness into the spirit worlds. With these senses active, you 
1 
see what transpires across the Gauntlet, and you can watch the passage of spirits 
and ghosts. This sense lasts for one minutel conflict. You can grant this sense to 
someone else, in which case it lasts for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of ; 
success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
I 
INITIKTE [BASIC) SPIRIT: 
TWCH 
SPIRIT 
The mage can extend his natural touch and capabilities briefly into the 
spirit world. Doing so can be as simple as a shout or as complex as translocating 
a hand to pickup a spiritual object or strike at a spirit. Of course, spirits can strike 
back while the mage coexists thus. 
Call Spirit: You translate your voice across the Gauntlet and into the spirit 
world. In this fashion, you can speak to spirits or just put out a general call for 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


spirits to heed you. Although there’s no guarantee of attendance, spirits do tend 
to find people interesting, and they may flock to find out more about the unusual 
human who talks to them. You can use a Social Challenge to convince a spirit 
to come to you, although it may not necessarily manifest physically or come to 
your aid. Grades of Success: No effect. 
The Spirit’s Caress: A quick touch sends your reach through the Gauntlet 
(and the Avatar Storm) to touch the other side. You might just pat a spirit on 
the head, or you could strike at it with all the might of your physical body. By 
this means, you can threaten aspirit or perhaps even combat it and banish it. The 
juxtaposition of spirit and flesh lasts for one turn. Grades of Success: Each grade 
of success allows you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
DISCIPLE 
(INTEMIEDIATE) SPIRIT: 
PIERCE 
GAUNTLET 
The Gauntlet itself ceases to be so much of a problem for the Disciple. The 
Avatar Stormremainsadanger, true, butthemagecannow interactfullywithspirits, 
awaken the spiritual properties of a place or even cross over into the Umbra itself. 
Awaken the Inanimate: Spiritual mages believe that every item has a spirit 
associated with it. You can awaken these spirits, rousing them temporarily from 
dormancy, to empower the item or to have them answer your questions. The older 
the item, and the more Resonance it has, the stronger the spirit is. In general, you 
can awaken an item’s spirit and ask it one question. Have a Narrator answer your 
singlequestionfromthe item’spointofview, soaknife wouldbe able to describe who 
it’skilledorastandofgrasswouldtellwhotrampled 
it. Mostoften, thespiritfallsback 
into slumber immediately thereafter, althoughsome powerful items may have active 
and aware spirits already. Such items tend to have personalities of their own, and 
they may occasionally behave quirkily or fail depending on who’s using them and 
how they’re treated. Grades of Success: If the Storyteller agrees, you may awaken 
particularly powerful spirits in old items with this rite, and they may have powers 
beyond simply answering your queries. Such feats take many grades of success. 
Stepping Sideways: By focusing on some symbolic journey, such as diving into 
a pool of water or entering a dark cave, you cross the barrier from material to spirit. 
You suffer the usual injury for the Avatar Storm, but you translocate physically from 
the material plane to the Umbra or vice versa. Once there, you can wander about 
at will, although you must either find a natural gate or use this Effect again to leave. 
Living creatures stand out against the spirit world. They have not belonged in such 
places for millennia. Once you cross, you exist physically in the other location. You 
don’t step back at some point automatically unless you cast an Effect to do so. Grades 
of Success: Each grade allows you to bring another being with you. 
, 
ADEPT 
(~TERITIEDIATE) 
SPIRIT: 
REND 
AND &PAIRGAUNTLET 
To protect against hostile spirits, the mage can influence the Gauntlet, turning 
it into a trap to keep spirits away. The mage can alter locations to his whims in the 
Umbra, and he can build specific wards to keep out spiritual intruders. The Gauntlet 
canberenttoallowmanypeoplepassage,ortoloosespiritsanddemonsupontheworld. 
Affix Gauntlet: You can manipulate the Gauntlet to create traps, whorls, 
strong points and wards. If you best a spirit in a Social Challenge, you can hedge 
it out of a place, force it into a body or object, or simply trap it in once place. This 
Effect lasts for one scene/ hour. Grades of Success: Each grade of success increases 
’ 
* 
, 
I +a the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


--- 
Breach the Gauntlet: This Effect works like Stepping Sideways, but you create 
a free-standing gate. Anyone can travel through this gate to pass between worlds 
(with the usual trouble of the Avatar Storm). You literally bring the spirit and the 
material together for a short time. This gate stands open for one turn. Grades of 
Success: Eachgradeofsuccessallows you toextend theEffect’sdurationbyonegrade. 
The most skilled Spirit mages can create their own spirit servants, break 
through the Gauntlet to worlds beyond and even design entire realms by shaping 
spirit energy to their whims. The mage can sense the Avatar and, it’s rumored, 
even destroy it. The mage’s defenses protect his spirit, even if he journeys into 
the great beyond of the Deep Umbra or other alien places. 
Break the Dreamshell: Far-ranging mages discover a second layer that 
keeps mages inside the Umbral confines of the solar system. To escape to the 
Deep Umbra, the layer of chaos and uncertain primordialism, the mage must 
break through that layer. Doing so requires mastery of Spirit, for the mage cannot 
survive beyond with any skill less. Fortunately there’s no Avatar Storm to 
contend with at the layer of the Dreamshell. You just cast this Effect when you 
reach the edge of the spirit horizon, and you cross into the spiritual deeps. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success allows you to affect another person. 
Deep Umbra Travel: You shield yourself against the rigors of the Deeps. Most 
creatures die out in the unformed void, but you can travel there (if you would ever 
decide or desire to do so). This Effect protects you for one scene/ hour. Grades of 
Success: Eachgrade ofsuccessallows you to extend the Effect’sduration by one grade. 
~ S T E R  
(ADVANCED) 
SPIRIT: F~RGE 
EPHE~ERA 
T~me 
The inexorable march of time counts out the seconds, days, years and millennia 
until the end of the Tapestry. But does it truly ever end?& is all time just a recursion 
of histories and a group of moments with nothing more than arbitrary causality 
making them discrete? Mages who study Time recognize that the flow of time itself 
is mutable, and that it’s not nearly so hard and fast as people often believe. 
Science and magic alike balk at actual time travel, but limited alterations 
of such a sort seem possible occasionally. Still, the mechanics of doing so are 
mysterious and perhaps even more dangerous than spirit travel. The clever mage 
restricts his use of Time to scrying and to the occasional boost of his reaction 
speed. Those who actually walk the halls of time report time-policing entities, 
strange temporal beasts, time anomalies and the like, if they return at all. 
APPRENTICE 
(BASIC) Trme T I ~ E  
SENSE 
The beginning Time student can measure time with uncanny accuracy. He 
can determine time to a second, measure the duration of other Effects and notice 
distortions in the time-stream. 
Perfect Time: One simple casting tells you the time to the nearest second. 
This measure reflects your subjective time with respect to the world. If you are 
in sped-up time, for instance, you know exactly how long you’ve been “gone,” 
I 
what the ratio of time flow is and what the equivalent time is back in the real 
time flow. These senses last for one conflict/ minute. You may cast this sense on 
someone else, in which case it lasts a turn. Grades of Success: Each grade of 
success adds one grade to the Effect’s duration. 
b hi; ’ 
I 
-1: 
=’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Time Sense: You can spot temporal anomalies, things moving through the 
time-stream and warps in time due to strong magic. Although such manifesta- 
tions are rare, you can detect them with this spell if you suspect one. A 
sufficiently powerful Effect is obvious even if it's some time off. These senses last 
for one conflict/ minute. You may cast this sense on someone else, in which case 
it lasts a turn. Grades of Success. Each grade of success allows you to extend the 
Effect's duration by one grade or to affect one other person. 
INITIATE (BASIC) T I ~ E :  
T I ~ E  
SIGHT 
Scrying is, of course, a limited and uncertain art. Still, many mages 
hope to reap at least a limited insight into the future. With some rudimen- 
tary time magic, doing so becomes possible. The mage may send her senses 
back or forward, hoping for a glimpse of destiny. She may also muddy the 
waters by messing randomly with the time-stream, all the better to keep 
other Time users out. 
Divinations: You gain a limited insight into the future or past. If you look 
into the past, you should ask a Narrator or Storyteller to provide you with 
information about some significant past event in the area of your casting. If you 
look into the future, you gain one free retest that you can hold for the duration 
of the story. Grades of Success: No effect. 
Time Wards: You just muck around in Time and cause difficulty for those 
who would time-travel to you or spy on you. This Effect works just like a Ward 
(seep. 144), except that it shields against Time instead ofCowespondence. Grades 
of Success: See Ward, p. 144. 
DISCIPLE 
(INTEIUIIEDIATE) T I ~ E :  
T I ~ E  
~"IPULATICBN 
! 
Time doesn't take well to manipulation, but the Disciple can pull off minor 
feats. Perhaps the mage changes the timeline to reflect a better situation from 
a friend, or just dilates and contracts time to make things speed up or slow down. 
A skilled mage can even rewind time a little, making things happen over again. 
Distort Time: You distort time around one person for a turn in a small 
location. The subject either gains or loses one action for the turn. Grades of 
Success: Each success scored allows you to affect another person. 
Time Warp: One of the more obnoxious powers, a mage can rewind time 
for someone who's already taken a turn and cause the person to take that turn 
over again. Therefore, the direct consequences of that action didn't happen to 
that character. Indirect matters (a wound from a different enemy, for instance) 
probably remain. You can pick who redoes the turn. The former action is 
invalidated and the latter used. Grades of Success: No effect. 
' AEPT ( INTER~EDIATE) 
Time: T I ~ E  
DETEIU~IINIS~ 
No longer limited to manipulations, the mage can stop time, slow it to a 
crawl or change its perceived speed to a race. Objects can be held in stasis for 
later, and so can spells. The mage simply prepares the Effect and the other spell 
in question, then the Effect triggers when the condition is met. 
Contingent Effect: You set up a contingency inadvance for some condition 
that might come to pass. When it does, it fires off another spell that you cast just 
' 
.)/ after your Contingent Effect rote. You can hold multiple spells thus, and doing 
, 
so is a good way to spend a long ritual preparing adeadly spell for later. Of course, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


if you hold too many spells, you’ll suffer severe penalties. Also note that Prime 
senses can detect the held Effect. Grades of Success: No effect. 
Programmed Event: You freeze time around an object. Until some event 
comes to pass, that object remains frozen. For instance, a cup might hover in the 
air, waiting to be touched by a red-headedverbena. After that occurs, the object 
returns to normal time. Most often, this Effect is used to preserve some Artifact 
or trap. This Effect lasts for one scene/ hour. Grades of Success: No effect. 
~€I.AST+ER(ADVANCED) 
T I ~ E :  
Trme TRAVEL 
The true Master steps laterally outside of time and moves along the 
temporal axis. Such journeys can take the mage far to the future or past. These 
journeys are among the most dangerous that a mage can take, for the weight of 
Paradox tends to multiply when someone affects the far past or future. 
Sidestep Time: Having immunized yourself to time, you continue to act while 
everyone in 15 paces plus three paces per Arete Trait is immobilized. To you, the world 
seems frozen. Of course, you cannot physically interact with anything that’s frozen in 
null-time.Yougainonefreeturntoactat 
theendofyournormalturn, andnobody may 
react to you (although you cannot injure them either). Grades of success: No effect. 
Time Travel: The penultimate expression of mystic will carries the mage 
into the future or past. If you shunt the mage into the past, it’s largely one-way; 
you can’t just bop into the Dark Ages and then back out in the hotel. Similarly, 
if you send a mage to the future, then it’s up to the game to catch up to that future 
(if it ever happens). The exact destination is up to the mage, but the details rely 
on the Storyteller. Grades of Success: No effect. 
SA~PLE 
RCBTES 
AND E ~ X T S  
All right, you’ve got a list of various Spheres and potential ideas. Now, how 
does your mage do something pretty straightforward like turn invisible, deflect 
bullets or fly? The sample rotes and Effects included here should cover many of 
these bases, giving you a frame of reference from which to draw. If you want to 
do something that’s not described, talk it over with your Storyteller and make 
a new rote for it. These rotes are guidelines, but they offer some direction. 
Note also that some of the sample rotes here use conjunctional magic. You 
can use those types of Effects only if your Storyteller allows them as per the 
optional rule on p. 144. Some have multiple forms for casting. If a rote can 
happen in multiple ways (like a simple “damage enemy” rote, which could use 
Forces or Entropy or any number of other Spheres), each variant is a separate rote. ; 
In some cases, you may find other Sphere combinations to make a given rote. 
Doing so is fine as long as the Storyteller approves of them. 
Animate the Dead: Initiate (Basic) Spirit. You call out to a minor spirit and 
cause it to inhabit a corpse and direct it. With a successful Social Challenge, you 
convince the spirit to reanimate the corpse for a scene/ hour. The corpse is 
obviously dead, and it has no memories or personality unless you provide them ! 
through other Sphere Effects. Such a zombie has health levels just like an 
uninjured person, but it suffers no wound penalties. If it is reduced to Dead, the 
corpse is too damaged to continue, and the spirit leaves. You could also use a 
Social Challenge with a reversed rote to banish a spirit from an undead creature 
of this sort. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success extends the Effect’s duration 
by one grade or allows you to animate an additional corpse. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Block Magical Energy: Initiate (Basic) Prime. You shield an area or object (but 
not a person) so that Quintessence flowing through it can’t be touched. Nobody can 
draw Quintessence from the target. This Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success extends the Effect’s duration by one grade. 
Create Normal Item: Initiate (Basic) Matter and Initiate (Basic) Prime. You 
create an object from nothingness, touching you and not transposing any other item 
or creature. The item can be up to the volume of a one-foot cube, so a sword (long and 
(Intermediate) Matter to create a rare or complex element. You must use Master 
(Advanced) Matter to make radioactive materials or other similarly strange matter. 
The itemexistsforoneminutelconflict. GradesofSuccess: Eachgradeofsuccessallows 
you to extend the Effect’s duration by one grade or to double the created volume. 
Decrepify: Adept (Intermediate) Entropy. You cause the opponent’s body 
to turn upon itself, age and suffer from disease and mischance. The subject takes 
one health level of damage if you can touch him or make a successful ranged 
attack with an appropriate challenge. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
affects one additional target or causes one additional health level of damage. 
Deflect Bullets: Initiate (Basic) Forces. You alter the velocity of incoming 
attacks so that they veer away from you. You gain one extra health level in 
defense against kinetic attacks (raw energy attacks still affect you normally). Or 
you can use Disciple-level (Intermediate) Matter. You cause the air around you 
to deflect incoming attacks, granting you one extra health level. The Effect lasts 
for one minute/ conflict. Grades of Success: Each grade of success extends the 
Effect’s duration by one grade or allows you to affect one other person. The Forces 
version gives you one extra health level of defense. 
Enhance Weapon: Disciple (Intermediate) Forces and Initiate (Basic) Prime. 
You cause a weapon to strike on its next attack with an elemental attack in 
addition to its normal blow. Doing so causes one extra health level of damage. (It’s 
I of three. You can also use Disciple (Intermediate) Forces in conjunction with 
Initiate (Basic) Prime to shield yourself from gravity and create kinetic energy 
\ : 
I the Effect’s duration by one grade or allows you to affect one other person. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Hurl Elemental Attacks: Disciple (Intermediate) Forces and Initiate (Basic) 
Prime. You conjure fire, lightning or similar forces from nothingness and strike your 
foe. The attack scores two health levels of damage or inflicts one health level with 
a special effect (stun, freeze, as appropriate to the element). Each element is a 
separate rote, and it must be approved individually by the Storyteller so that its 
special effects are defined. If you use Master (Advanced) Forces, you may inflict an 
extra health level of damage. You must make a challenge of your Mental Traits 
against the target’s Physical Traits to hit. Grades of Success: Each grade of success 
allows you to inflict one extra health level of damage or affect one additional target. 
Improve Senses: Initiate (Basic) Life. You cause your senses to reach double 
humannorms.Youcanhearwhisperedconversationsorspot tinywritings. Evenwhen 
someone’s concealed supernaturally, you can use a Mental Challenge to note that 
something’s amiss and spot the target. Point to your eye or ear to indicate preternatural 
sight or hearing. (If you’re doing something that requires touch or taste, then your 
actions should make as muchobvious.) This Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. You 
may cast this Effect on someone else, in which case the duration is one turn. Grades 
of Success: Each grade of success grants the Effect one extra grade of duration. 
Influence Emotions: Initiate (Basic) Mind. You project emotions that influ- 
ence someone’s reactions. You cancause someone to become friendly or non-hostile, 
or change his reaction to something. You project one change with this Effect. You 
must best the target in a Social Challenge. Grades of Success: No additional effect. 
Multiple Action: Initiate (Basic) Life or Disciple (Intermediate) Time. You 
either speed up your natural reflexes, or you literally compress time around yourself. 
Yougainoneextraaction inyournexttum. (Thisactioncannot be amagicalaction, 
although existing Effects persist.) Grades of Success: If you use Time (only), each 
gradeofsuccessgrantsoneadditionalactionor 
allows you toaffect oneother subject. 
Paralyze Opponent: Initiate (Basic) Forces or Disciple (Adept) Life or 
Disciple (Adept) Matter. You cause the enemy’s motion to redirect so that his 
body doesn’t move, or you paralyze his body, or you just solidify air around him. 
If you best the subject in a challenge of your Mental versus his Physical Traits, 
you freeze him in place for a turn. Grades of Success : Each grade of success ex tends 
the Effect’s duration by one tum or allows you to affect one additional target. 
Psychic Attack: Initiate (Basic) Mind. You pierce the subject’s mind with 
psychic force. Doing so inflicts one level of bashing damage if you best the subject 
in a Mental Challenge. If you use Disciple (Intermediate) Mind, this Effect scores 
two levels of damage; with Master (Advanced) Mind, it’s three. This Effect doesn’t 
3 I 
affect normal inanimate objects, but anything with a mind (animal, computer 
‘J 
with a created mind, etc.) can be affected. Grades of Success: Each grade of success :I 
inflicts an additional level of damage or affects an additional target. 
Sense Lies: Initiate (Basic) Mind. You listen to something that someone says 
whileyouwatchthetargetinperson.YoucastthisEffectandmakeaSocialChallenge. 
~ 
If successful, you determine whether the last thing that the subject said was a lie, .* 
althoughyoudonotnecessarilyknowthetruth.GradesofSuccess: 
Eachgradeofsuccess 
extends the Effect’s duration one grade. With one grade of success, the duration is one 
turn. For one grade of success, you may also cast the Effect on someone else. 
Turn Invisible: Disciple (Intermediate) Mind. You cause people not to realize 
that you are there. Cross your arms in front of your chest with your hands flat to 
indicate that you’re invisible. An individual with Mind magic or with some level of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


.Le- 
enhanced senses may make a Mental Challenge to recognize that you’re there. This 
challenge has a one-Trait difference for each full class of power variance. That is, if 
you have Intermediate Mind but someone challenges with only a Basic power, then 
yougainaone-Trait bonus to the challenge resolution. Youmay alsocreate theEffect 
with Initiate (Basic) Forces or Disciple (Intermediate) Lfe. You bend light around 
yourself so that you can’t be seen, or cause your body to become transparent to light. 
You may still be challenged by anyone with the appropriate heightened perceptions. 
Anyone using Correspondence senses, Mind senses or the like realizes that you’re there 
but physically invisible. If you make someone else invisible with Life, you must use 
the Adept (Intermediate) level to do so. This Effect lasts for one minute/ conflict. 
Grades of Swcess: Each grade of success extends the Effect’s duration by one grade 
or allows you to affect an additional target. 
PARADCDX 
Paradox is not well understood, but it’s perhaps one of the most feared (and 
most common) problems mages suffer. When a mage exerts the force of magic to 
change the world in spectacular ways, he violates the accepted nature of reality - 
people can’treally tum invisible or change lead into gold! -and a Paradox results. 
Often, the result ranges from inconvenient side-effects to disaster. 
Paradox isn’t a sentient force that’s out to get mages. Rather, it’s the 
backlash of universal forces against the meddling and manipulation of the 
Awakened. It doesn’t play favorites or hunt mages down. It simply strikes - 
often in some form of fatigue or injury as the mage’s spell goes awry - 
when a 
mage tries to rewrite the Tapestry. After all, the Tapestry is so complex that no 
mortal could ever anticipate its response to manipulations completely. 
Paradox most often strikes when a mage performs vulgar magic. The force of 
the mage striving to overcome static reality causes a Backlash or warping of magic. 
With some difficult spells, the mage might really screw up and be damned. Paradox 
can result as the mage fails spectacularly at some enchantment. 
, 
L 
PARAD~X 
ACCUITI~LATI~N 
You gamer Paradox when you work a vulgar Effect, or when you fail an 
Ifyou cast avulgar Effect, you gain one Paradox Trait for the highest Sphere level 
If Sleepers watched your vulgar Effect, you get a n  extra Paradox Trait. Lucky you. 
If you cast and fail an Effect that has a base difficulty of twice or more of 
* = your Arete Traits, you botch it. A botchedcoincidental Effect gains one Paradox 
2 Trait per highest Sphere level. A botched vulgar Effect, gains that amount plus 
one more. A botched vulgar Effect with Sleeper witnesses gives a mage two 
Paradox Traits per level of the highest Sphere plus two more on top of that. 
As you accumulate Paradox, it may destroy your Quintessence Traits. If 
your Paradox + Quintessence total exceeds 20 Traits, then replace Quintessence 
with Paradox so that the total never exceeds 20. 
Effect miserably. 
invoked. Therefore, casting a vulgar Dsciple-level Effect garners three Paradox. 
STAVING 
QT DISASTER 
Usually, Paradox strikes immediately, causing discomfort or injury to the mage. 
However, you can delay this accumulation by spending a Trait of Willpower. If you 
do so, the Paradox holds until the end of the scene or hour, whichever comes first 
: ’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


(mark it on your sheet). All Paradox you have gained in that time adds up. However, 
you suffer the Backlash of all the accumulated Paradox at the end of that time. 
BACKLASH 
Usually when you garner Paradox, it snaps and injures you. You may become 
fatigued as a result of your spell (suffering bashing damage), or you may actually be 
injured from a wash of uncontrolled forces. In rare cases, this damage might even kill 
the caster. Make a Simple Test each time you gain Paradox Traits. If you win or tie, 
itbacklashes immediately. Ifyoulose, itstayswithyour Patternandsimmers.. . fornow. 
The damage of a backlash depends on the amount of Paradox you’ve 
garnered. Typically, a Backlash fires off all of your accumulated Paradox Traits. 
So if you’re sitting on a lot of Paradox, you could be in trouble. If you’ve suffered 
one to 10 Traits of Paradox, take half that many levels (rounded up) of bashing 
damage (to a limit of Mortally Wounded). If you’ve suffered 11 to 20 Traits of 
Paradox, subtract 10, halve (rounded up) and suffer that many levels of lethal 
damage (again, to a limit of Mortally Wounded). If you’ve suffered 21 or more 
Traits of Paradox (what were you doing?!?), subtract 20, halve (rounded up) and 
suffer that many levels of aggravated damage. And this time, it can kill you. 
PARADex SPIRITS 
Occasionally, a mage’s gross violation of reality draws down some sort of 
offended force. These beings manifest to punish the mage for hubris, and perhaps 
to force the mage to learn something from his errors. 
, just to make sure that people 
in new cards or change some eve 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


If the Paradox Judge feels that it’s appropriate, a mage may suffer a visit from 
a Paradox spirit. Such a spirit typically manifests in a form appropriate to the magic 
used (such as a hovering flame for Forces or an old man for Time) and wreaks havoc 
upon the unfortunate with its powers. Some can materialize physically. Others 
simply hamper the mage’s Effects or create nuisance effects of their own. The most 
dangerous may actually kill a mage or carry her off to some distant Paradox Realm. 
There’s no hard-and-fast rule for a Paradox spirit. In general, a Paradox 
spirit should have Traits equivalent to the mage, scaled up if the Paradox was 
large. For a Paradox Backlash over 10 Traits, the spirit might have twice the 
Traits of the mage. For a Paradox Backlash of 20 or more Traits, the spirit will 
probably have quadruple the mage’s power level and be nigh-unstoppable. 
Paradox spirits are typically immune to the Sphere that was used to cause the 
Paradox that drew their attention. That is, if a mage botches a Forces spell horribly 
and a Paradox spirit appears, it’s probably immune to Forces. Furthermore, a 
Paradox spirit cannot be summoned, commanded or banished with Spirit magic. 
@UIET 
Since mages recognize the mutable vision of reality, it’s possible for them 
to become lost in a world of their own creation. Sometimes it’s difficult to 
separate truth from fancy or magic from the mundane. In severe cases when a 
mage’s senses are overcome, she withdraws from reality and becomes lost in her 
own magical world. Although some might mistake this state for insanity, mages 
recognize it as the victim’s mind being overcome with the grandeur of the 
Tapestry and the power of possibility. Such a state is called Quiet. 
A mage in Quiet sees or hem things that aren’t there, becomes obsessed or 
withdrawn or otherwise suffers a shift in personality. Quiets don’t strike with any 
1 - 1 2  
t 
P 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


predictablereguhty.Rather, they tend toresultfiomextremelybadParadoxl3acklashes 
or magical trauma. It's up to a Storyteller to determine when a mage falls into Quiet. 
Generally, Quiet causes some roleplaying difficulties, since the character falls into a state 
of heightened emotional disturbance in keeping with the mage's individual Resonance 
Traits. Insomecases, amage winds up inaminbpe, an internal vision that pits the mage 
against his fears or delusions. For such an event, the Storyteller and Avatar Guide should 
work together to craft an appropriate side-game in advance. 
A mage struck into Quiet suffers problems based on the amount of Paradox 
energy that backlashed and put him there. The type of Quiet depends upon the 
mage's highest Resonance Trait. High Dynamism leads to Madness, high Stasis 
leads to excessive Clarity, and high Entropy leads to Jhor. With one to three 
Paradox Traits, the mage typically suffers from a minor hindrance or Negative 
Trait. As the Paradox Backlash size increases, so too does the severity of the 
problem. All of the problems are cumulative as well. As long as the mage remains 
in Quiet, he suffers from a severe set of disorders. 
With one to three Paradox Traits in the Quiet, the mage suffers from doubled 
Negative Traits due to Resonance. Therefore, for instance, the mage's Negative 
Trait of Clumsy that comes from his Dynamic Resonance would become Clumsy x2. 
With four to six Paradox Traits in the Quiet, the mage suffers from a 
derangement. The mage tends to see things that aren't there, and he has trouble 
responding to the surroundings. With too much Dynamic Resonance, this 
derangement comes as hallucinations. With too much Stasis, it is a compulsion. 
With too much Entropy, it manifests as intense paranoia. This derangement is 
primarily a roleplaying hindrance. Players who ignore it should be penalized 
accordingly by losing their Experience Trait for the session. 
With seven to 10 Paradox Traits in the Quiet, the mage spawns 
random Hobgoblins. 
With 11 or more Paradox Traits in the Quiet, the mage enters a mindscape. 
, 
C~PING 
WITH @UET 
By focusing and concentrating intently, a mage can attempt to break 
through Quiet-induced problems. He has no guarantee of success, but the mage 
might be able to bring his attention back to the real world with effort. 
Spend a Willpower Trait and win or tie a Simple Test. If you succeed, you 
discharge one Trait of the Paradox, and you manage to avoid the effects of the 
Quiet for the rest of the scene or hour, whichever comes first. If this test reduces 
the severity of your Quiet, then that reduction takes effect immediately. You 
may be able to fight down a Quiet-induced derangement, for instance. You can 
make this test only once per scene. 
Barring the successful use of Willpower, a Quiet reduces in severity by one Trait 
every session. Yes, a mage could be in Quiet for a long time if he does not fight it off. 
H~BGCBBLINS 
Severe Quiets sometimes make raw, creative forces seep from the mage's 
subconscious. As his mind wanders and sees things that aren't there, the mage's 
I 
power gives form to these hallucinations. Or are they real things that simply 
chose this time to appear? Whatever the case, the hobgoblins are very real 
i ' e '  
12:. - 
:: -.: 
manifestations of the mage's delusions. 
, cr'; 
I 
b 
I' 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A mage typically manifests one hobgoblin for each Trait of Paradox that 
went into the Quiet above six. With seven Paradox Traits blown into a Quiet, 
the mage suffers one Hobgoblin. With eight Traits, he suffers two, and so on. 
Hobgoblins should be moderated by an Avatar Guide or Paradox Judge so that 
they reflect the mage’s inner turmoil and magical difficulties. 
Hobgoblins may take the forms of people, creatures or items. Most often, they 
have a form appropriate to the Quiet in question. For an episode of Madness, they 
could literally be little goblins or nonsensical furniture. With Clarity, they manifest 
as machine-voices or freakish technological aberrations. With Jhor, hobgoblins 
could be small demons, imps or perhaps weapons or implements of torture. 
A hobgoblin is very real, and it doesn’t suffer from Paradox or Unbelief. Rather, 
it’s spawned from the mage’s own magical powers. Unless a hobgoblin is patently 
paranormal, it resembles a normal thing in all ways. No simple means exists with 
which to tell a hobgoblin from reality, and a mage already suffering from hallucina- 
tions has avery tough time of it. Hobgoblins tend to stick around and haunt the mage 
for an entire game session, although they can be killed or broken before then. 
Although no simple Traits exist for a hobgoblin, run with a few simple animals 
or items. You don’t need to get wild, and hobgoblins don’t often manifest as HUGE 
KILLER BEASTIES! More likely, a hobgoblin will run around and vex the mage or 
cause social problems, and perhaps play to some of the mage’s personal fears. 
If a mage manages to snap out of his Quiet, hobgoblins or their remnants 
vanish like melting snow. 
In very severe Quiets, a mage’s consciousness retreats into the shell of his 
mind to battle with Paradox and the Avatar. The mage runs through a gauntlet 
ofsymbolism andsurreality in an attempt to come to grips with his state, best his 
Resonance and escape to sanity once more. 
While in a mindscape, a mage is catatonic. With Disciple level Mind magic, 
others can enter the mindscape to help or hinder the trapped mage. By spending 
a Willpower Trait and winning or tying a Simple Test, the mage can communicate 
one spoken sentence into the physical world. Otherwise, the mage is on his own. 
Craft a mindscape like you would a Seeking. Grab some Narrators and the 
Avatar Guide, then throw a few trials or puzzles at the mage. The character must 
puzzle through the bizarre scenery to reach the waking world once more. Indeed, 
the mage might not even realize immediately that he’s in a mindscape. 
If a mage or visitor is knocked unconscious or killed in a mindscape, the 
hapless victim lapses into a coma and awakens only at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
Fortunately, when a mage fights through a mindscape, he discharges all of 
his accumulated Paradox Traits in the process. 
Although a mage creates magic through will, it’s the belief in a focus that 
shapes such magic. The mage lets a focus determine her spell and give it shape. In 
turn, she believes that the focus channels her will to empower the magic. 
Although a focus isn’t really necessary to work magic, most mages only understand 
their magics in terms of the foci that they use - 
at least until they master their 
magic and become enlightened enough to recognize the power of will over reality. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


When you shape an Effect, your mage generally needs to use a focus. Doing 
so takes the form of chanting, brandishing an object of power, mixing a 
substance and applying it, manipulating energy through song and dance or 
whatever else the mage believes is necessary to work magic. In game terms, you’ll 
use various trappings and Abilities to work your spells. 
Each Tradition description lists various foci that are appropriate. A mage uses 
these foci to direct magic. For instance, a Hermetic mage may chant in Enochian, 
inscribeacomplexgeometricformorcalluponangelicinterventioninordertoconjure 
flames.AVerbenacou1ddothesamewithapaean 
toancient gods, anofferingofblood 
to the elements or howling a song that sparks fiery energies. A Virtual Adept might use 
a computer to manipulate local electrical fields or generate a laser for the same effect. 
You can use any focus from your Tradition to shape an Effect. You need to 
narrate the use of that focus, explaining what you’re doing and how it causes the 
magic to happen. You’ll probably want to brush up on a little theory just to make it 
convincing. Read some books on computer science if you’re playing aVirtual Adept, 
checkout some philosophy and religion for Celestialchoristers andso on. Ofcourse, 
you should never actually act out a dangerous behavior or brandish something like 
a weapon. Merely describe what you are doing in such a case. However, if you can 
roleplay the use of a focus (by actually singing, for instance, or making complex 
gestures with an item card), then you should do so as long as you won’t draw negative 
attention from people who aren’t playing. (No sense convincing onlookers that 
you’re engaged in some sort of realeworld occult conspiracy.) 
Notealsothatusingafocus isn’tjustaroleplayingtoolorahindrance. It canreally 
boost your capabilities with magic. See “Abilities Enhancing Magic,” on p. 135. 
UNICBUE 
AND SPECIALTY 
FKI 
You have a specialty focus for each Sphere, a focus with which you’re 
particularly good. If you can find a way to work that focus into the magic, then 
you get a one-Trait bonus on your Arete Trait total for the resolution of such 
challenges. For instance, if your Hermetic mage uses Enochian chants to 
summon Forces magic, then you get a one-Trait bonus any time you chant when 
casting a Forces spell. You could still inscribe a sigil with your staff (say, if you 
were rendered mute), but you wouldn’t get the bonus, simply because your mage 
isn’t as good with that combination of Sphere and focus. 
Insomecases, you’llhaveaunique focus. Youcan decide, for instance, that youdon’t 
justperform your AkashicSp~tmagicwithyoursword, butspecificallywiththeChlnese 
broadsword you inherited from your grandfather. When using a unique focus, you gain 
aone-Traitadditionalbonusonresolvingyourmagicalcasting. However, ifyouever lose , 
the focus, you’re in trouble. You can’t use that Sphere at all without the unique focus 
unless you manage to either surpass it, gain enough Arete to no longer need it or gam a 
1 - 
new focus to replace it (at a cost of one Experience Trait per level in the Sphere). 
SURPASSING 
A FKUS 
Youcanperformmagicwithoutafocus, but it’sverydifficult todoso. Yourmage 
concentrates on the desired Effect, then channels his will withal1 ofhis might. If he’s 
lucky, he may succeed in performing magic without the use of the focus. 
You must spend a Willpower Trait immediately. When you do, you make your 
usual magical test, but youdo so at a three-Trait difficulty penalty for Arete purposes, 
so you’re much more likely to fail. However, this system allows you to perform magic 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


if you are somehow prevented from using any focus (if you’re mentally projecting, 
or if you are bound and gagged without any possessions, for instance). 
ABAND~NING 
FKI 
Eventually, with time and great enlightenment, you overcome the need 
for foci. You realize that it’s your will, not the objects that you use, that causes 
reality to change. 
When you achieve a total of six Arete Traits, you may abandon all use of foci 
for two of your Spheres. In those Spheres, you can perform magic without any tools 
or practices. You simply concentrate for a tum on the desired Effect, and you make 
a test normally without any focus-related penalties. If you decide to go ahead and 
use a focus anyway, you gain a one-Trait resolution bonus on the test. 
Each time you gain another Arete Trait over six, you abandon foci for two 
more Spheres. 
SAmPLE IFKI 
Of course, the following list isn’t all-inclusive. You can add or change foci 
according to your game style and needs. Each example includes an Ability that 
would be useful with the focus. 
Art: The mage creates a piece of art, often a picture of the desired Effect. 
Crafts: Painting (or similar). 
Blood: The mage uses blood - 
her own or a sacrifice’s - 
to empower 
magic. Obviously you shouldn’t actually be spilling blood everywhere. Just 
pantomime and use your imagination. Medicine. 
Books: Various tomes and scrolls grant insight or formulae to use and muse 
upon. Academics: Literature. 
Bones: Symbolic ofdeath, can be used whole or carved into shapes. Medicine. 
Cauldrons/Chalices: Cups or bowls, often with noxious liquids, used to mix 
Circles: Mystic shapes of wholeness, warding and containment. Often 
Computers: Any sort of computational device, especially with attendant 
Crystals: Channeling energy for healing or the like. Often, different cuts 
Dancing: Ecstatic or specialized dances to channel energy or create trance 
Devices: Various techno-toys to manipulate energy or chemicals. Technology. 
Do: The lifestyle of the Akashic Brotherhood, used to return the human 
body to its natural living state. Brawl: Do or Meditation. 
Drugs: Obviously, you shouldn’t bring drugs into your game, but you might 
represent the Effectsofa shaman with peyote or avisionary withLSD. Sxme: Chermstry . 
Elements: Associationstothevariouscardinalformsandpowerslikethetraditional 
earth, air, fire and water, or modem things like glass, plastic and electricity. Occult. 
Ether Goggles: Special goggles or glasses used to change a mystic’s sight. 
Especially common with the Sons of Ether, who fill theirs with ether to promote 
clarity of vision into the Tapestry. Alertness. 
formulas or for scrying. Science for chemical mixtures; Cosmology for scrying. 
made with chalk or blood. Craft: Drawing. 
useful programs. Computer. 
or colors determine the crystals’ use. Enigmas. 
states. Performance: Dance. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Feather: Representative of flight, freedom and the life of beasts of the air. 
Fire: A small flame symbolic of destruction or creation, light or 
Formula: A mathematical equation or scientific formula that “proves” the 
Often used in conjunction with spirits, as well. Animal Ken. 
inspiration. Occult. 
mage’s hypothesis. Science. 
Herbs: Mixtures of plants, seeds, roots and fruits that grant properties when 
Holy Symbol: Arepresentation of higher power, and the cosmic forces that 
Incense: Used for smoke, clouding of vision, scent or altering consciousness 
Language: The power of symbols and sounds that are given special 
sprinkled, smoked, eaten or mixed in a poultice or potion. Medicine. 
the mage invokes. Cosmology. 
to see reality as the mage desires instead of as it is. Meditation. 
meaning. Linguistics. 
Music: For trance, for inspiration or artistic work, either by listening to or 
Network: A group of computers set up to share information and processing 
Ordeal: A painful task that the mage must accomplish, like self-inflicted 
Pure Water: To wash away iniquity or to refresh the mage’s mind. Meditation. 
Purification: Part of a ritual to purify the mage’s spirit, mind and body for 
Ritual Sacrifice: The destruction or slaying of something of value in order 
Runes: Mystical sigils carved on a surface to attract or ward against certain 
creating music. Perjmnce for an appropriate musical instrument or talent. 
power. A way of communicating and sharing knowledge. Computer. 
injury, branding or torture. Survival. 
the working of miracles. Etiquette. 
to gain favor or appease spirits. Occult. 
powers. Occult. 
Scientific Meters and Probes: Little gadgets that measure various scientific 
qualities. Science. 
Sex: We hope you’re not doing this in live-action games, especially in 
public.. .. Used to make a tie between people or to heighten awareness. Athletics. 
Song: The message of a song may carry magic, or the sound of the music or 
even its chorus with others. Expression. 
Tarot Cards and Ouija Boards: Ubiquitous tools of modem occultists, 
often used for divination and spirit workings. Occult. 
Treatments: Body piercings, oils, moxa burning, special baths.. . stuff that 
seeps magic into the body. Medicine. 
Toys: Return to childhood, or symbols that represent more ad- 
vanced tools. Expression. 
Vehicles: Specialized automobiles or aircraft, even spaceships, with build- 
in enhancements. Drive. 
Wands: Pointing tools, standards for focusing energy and (if some pundits 
are to be believed) symbols of phallic power. Occult. 
Weapon: A sword, ritual knife or similar device, often used in battle or 
bloodletting but also as a symbol of authority. Melee for hand weapons, Athletics 
for thrown weapons, Firearms for guns. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


“Yeah, and it’s spreading,” Tiernan said. “What’s next? Griffins snatchi 
ople up and eating them in the streets? No thanks.” 
unravel one another.” 
“What about weavine them toeether instead?” Tiernan asked w 
ake must be inciedible.” 
“And uncontrollable,” David said with a disgusted look. 
“Maybe.” Tiernan muttered. 
“We’ll find out soon enough,” Florence said, bringing the car to astop. “ 
ource ofthe contamination is in there.” 
rence’s sensors, though, the area positively radiated trouble. LiGhts fluc 
d wildly on one of her devices, and another one let out a low, consta 
in intensity as the car got closer. 
“Uh ... what exactly does that box read?” Tie 
sy device. Before their eyes, the building in front ofthem was 
k vines that became crystalline webs. A dark, ophidian shape 
itself from an aerie on the roof and disappeared. An instant later, 
“Uncontrolled Quintessential enerey,” Florence said as they Got out of th 
9 looked perfectly normal again. 
David nodded and jog ed to the door ofthe structure. Finding it locked, h 
ths. He moved his rieht hand slowly throueh a series of circles. then 
ed once over his shou f der, then stood perfectly still and took several d 
- -  
‘‘We’d best iake care of this before someone else decides to,” he adde 
ookin9 at his unmarked knuckles. The three ofthem went inside. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Rules are an integral part of any game. They define what characters can and 
cannot do. Yet rules are necessary only to govern the outcome of aconfrontation 
when one does occur. Still, the primary focus of this game is to tell a good story, 
and the rules facilitate that focus. Rules just give you a framework to make sure 
that everyone is treated fairly. They're not ironclad dogma, they're just ideas to 
help you run a smoother, more entertaining game. 
CHALLENGES 
From time to time, two or more players will engage in a conflict that cannot 
be resolved through roleplaying alone. This sort of face-off is called a challenge, 
and it requires a simple system of conflict resolution. The system detailed in this 
chapter allows for the resolution of such conflicts efficiently and quickly. Inmost 
cases, a Narrator does not even need to be present when a challenge is played. 
Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins. In fact, 
roleplaying becomes more important than ever if players intend to enjoy a 
confrontation and avoid out-of-game disputes. Experienced players can integrate 
a challenge into their roleplaying so seamlessly that outsiders don't even know that 
anything unusual is going on. At the players' option, they can use special hand 
signals to indicate when certain Traits and powers are being employed. 
In order for this system to work, players need to work together. They have 
to educate each other on the rules and agree on what Traits can be used in a 
challenge. Compromise and cooperation are the bywords of this game. Argu- 
ments over whether or not a particular Trait is appropriate to bid wreck both the 
momentum and the mood of the game. 
USING TRAITS 
Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first under- 
stand what defines a character's capabilities. Each character is created with a 
number of adjectives that describe and define that person as an individual. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


These adjectives are called Traits, and they are described fully in Chapter Three. 
Players use these Traits to declare challenges against other characters or against 
static forces represented by a Narrator. 
INITIAL BID 
A challenge begins with a player bidding one of her Traits against her 
opponent. At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the 
challenge are, such as firing a gun, attacking with a knife or diving for cover. The 
other player must then decide how her character will respond. She can either 
relent immediately or bid one of her own Traits in defense. 
When players bid Traits against one another, they may use only those Traits 
that could sensibly be applied to that situation. Essentially, a player should 
usually use only those Traits from the same category her opponent’s used. Most 
challenges are categorized as Physical Challenges, Social Challenges or Mental 
Challenges, as per the Attribute categories, and all Traits used in a challenge 
must come from the same category. Experienced players may offer each other 
more creative leeway, but only by mutual agreement. 
If the defender relents, she loses the challenge automatically. For example, 
if she were being attacked, she would suffer a wound. If she bids a Trait in defense, 
the two players perform a test. Those Traits the players bid are put at risk, as the 
loser of the test loses not only the challenge but the Trait she bid as well. 
TESTING 
Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they engage in 
a test immediately. The test itself is not what you may think - 
the outcome is 
random, but the players use no cards or dice. The two players face off against one 
another by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors. The test works like the moment in 
poker when you turn over your cards and declare a winner. The test produces one 
of two possible outcomes - 
either one player is the victor, or the result is a tie. 
If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the duration of the game 
session. Essentially, you have become tired or lost some confidence in the 
capability the Trait represented, and you can’t call on it effectively until you 
regain some confidence and energy. 
In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the number of Traits that they 
currently have available in the Attribute category from which they bid the challenge 
Trait. The player with the least number of Traits loses the test and loses the challenge. 
Note that the number of Traits you’ve lost in previous challenges, or lost for any other 
reason,reducesthemaximumnumberofTraitsyoucanclaimin ties.Youmay lie about 
the number of Traits you possess, but only by declaring fewer Traits than you actually 
have. Bluffing in this way allows you to keep the actual number of Traits you possess 
a secret, but doing so may be risky. The challenger is always the first to declare his 
number of Traits. If both players declare the same number of Traits, then the challenge 
is a draw, and the defender wins. However, both players lose the Traits they bid. 
Example of Play: Jaedo and his cabal mate Jeremy are locked in a battle of wits, 
and it’slaedo’s turn to try to stumpJeremy with a riddle. Jaedo begins by declaring his 
Trait (“I am quite Observant, and I draw this riddle from the smallest hints of the 
natural world.”). Jeremy simply smiles and responds with declaration (“Bring it on. 
I’m much more Clever than you think I am!”). The two players test, and both shoot 
Paper. They must now compare Traits to see who wins. Not wanting to lose face in 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ions of a challenge, you 
does not include trials that a character fails but then redeems through retests or 
overbids. Retests and overbids occur before the five-minute time limit starts. 
1 
A challenge can become more complicated in a number of ways. The 
NEGATIVE TRAITS 
a player can call out a Negative Trait that he believes his opponent possesses. 
If the player does indeed possess that Negative Trait, he must bid an additional 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


If you figure out more of your opponent’s Negative Traits in a challenge 
than he has regular Traits to cover them, then he loses the challenge automati- 
cally. The same works in reverse, however, if you do not have additional Traits 
remaining to match incorrect Negative Trait guesses. 
Example of Play: Blink is attempting to convince Leigh, a wary Verbena 
Initiate, to join her on a potentially dangerous reconnaissance mission. The clever 
Hollower begins by appealing to some common ties (“I’ve been nothing but Friendly 
to yousofar, so why don’t youreturn thefavorthisonce?”). Leighstillisn’tquitereudy 
to go along yet ( “I’m too Commanding to be given orders so easily. ”) . Needing some 
extra leverage, Blink ups the ante by suggesting that Leigh has the Negative Trait 
Callous (“What, are you so Callous that you’ll ignore a genuine call for help like 
this?”). If Leigh did indeed possess that Negative Trait, she would have to nsk an 
additional Social Trait to continue the challenge. However, luck isn’t on Blink’s side, 
and Leigh doesn’t have that Negative Trait. Having underestimated her ally’s 
capabilities, Blink will now have to add a Trait to her bid to continue the challenge. 
It can be risky to bidNegative Traits, but if you’re sure about what you’re doing, 
you can raise the stakes for your opponent considerably. You can even raise them to 
the point where your opponent relents rather than risking additional Traits. 
@VE:RBIDDING 
Overbidding is the system by which powerful characters may prevail in a 
challenge, even if they lose the initial test. Justin the Master with 12 Mental 
Traits should be able to crush Sam the Initiate who has only three. This system 
is designed to make that possible. 
Once a test has been made, the loser has the option of calling for an overbid. 
In order to call an overbid, you must risk a new Trait, though, since the original one 
has already been lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the number of 
applicableTraitsthey possess in the appropriate Attribute category, starting with the 
player who called for the overbid. If that player has double the number of Traits as 
his opponent in that category, he may attempt another test. (The person who won 
the original challenge and is now being overbid against does not have to risk another 
Trait.) As in a tie, either player may state a number of Traits less than the actual 
number he has in order to keep his true power secret. Overbidding can be dangerous, 
though, unless you are confident in your estimation of your opponent’s abilities. 
Example of Play: Stefan DeChase is trying to fast-talk Randal, a reluctant aly , 
into following the course of action he’s suggesting. The unlikely Chorister begins with a 
classic rapid-fire barrage (“My words are so fast and Beguiling you have no choice but 
letmego.”). However, Randalisn’tbuyingintoit (‘TmtooDignified toletafewquick 
phrasessway me like that”). They test, andstefanloses. However, reckoning he hasmore 
social aptitude than his scholarly fiend, Stefan declares an overbid (“I’m so Witty, you ; 
don’tknow whathit you!”). He thenannouncesal IOofhisSocialTraits. Randaladmits c 
that he has only four, so they test again. Stefan wins this time, and he wins the overall 
challenge, even though he still loses the original Trait he bid. Now a slightly befuddled 
Randall is beginning to see the wisdom of following his fiend’s words after all. 
I 
STATIC 
CHALLENGES 
Sometimes, you have to undergo challenges against a Narrator rather than 
against another player. For example, a scholar may use a Static Mental Chal- 
lenge with the Occult Ability to dig up an obscure bit of lore in a vast library. In 
I :’ib , 
t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


such circumstances, you bid a Trait that would be appropriate to the challenge, 
then perform a test against the Narrator. Before the test, the Narrator decides 
on the difficulty of the task that you are attempting. This number determines 
how many Traits you are bidding against in the event of a tie. The test proceeds 
exactly as it would if you were testing against another character. Of course, you 
may attempt to overbid in a Static Challenge, but beware, because the Narrator 
can overbid as well. The number of Traits attached to the challenge should 
represent the difficulty and danger inherent in the challenge. 
Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books, doors or 
magical items that indicate the type of challenges that must be won to achieve 
aspecificeffect with that object (suchasdecipheringa tome or hot-wiringacar). 
Simple Tests determine whether you can do something successfully when you 
face no real opposition. Simple Tests are often used when casting rotes or other Effects. 
Most Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, although some may. 
When a Simple Test is called for, you simply play Rock-Paper-Scissors 
against a Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds if he wins or ties. In some 
cases, though, it may be necessary for the player to win in order to receive any 
benefit from the challenge. 
S I ~ P L E  
TESTS 
RETESTS 
Certain Traits allow a character toretest a challenge he has failed. A retest allows 
a character to ignore the results of the first test and test again for a new result. Players 
usually gain retests through Abilities, but other Traits may also provide them as well. 
Generally, expending one level of an appropriate Ability allows for one retest. 
Multiple retests are possible on a single challenge, but each retest must 
come from a different source. A character who is trying to hit someone with a 
sword may retest his Physical Challenge once using a level of Melee. However, 
he may not gain multiple retests with the Melee Ability on the same challenge, 
even if he has multiple levels on the Ability. 
A character who is capable of matching the conditions of the retest may 
cancel an opponent’s retest. If a player uses Brawl to retest a failed Physical 
Challenge to punch his foe, his foe may expend a level of Dodge to block the 
retest and force the attacker to accept the results of the original test. 
Example of Play: Jean Gris is attempting to subdue Brother Grizzly, a 
Dreamspeaker ally who is possessed by a terrifying spirit. Jean first tries to gain some 
time (“I knock your legs out from under you with a Dexterous sweep”). In response, 
8 a the spirit riding the other mge causes him to simply strike out (“I crush your leg with 
,” a Brutal stomp”). They test, and Jean loses. However, the Euthanatos is an 
accomplished fighter, so he calls fur a retest (“I am too skilled at Brawl to lose so 
easily!”). They test again, and Jean wins. Brother Grizzly topples to the ground, 
buying the Euthanatos a few extra seconds to decide on a new tactic. 
Later on, Jean Gris confronts his mentor Harlequin about the e&r mge’s 
involvement in a series ofsuspicious deaths. Wurds come to blows before long, andJean 
attacks withadagger(“WithasCnkeasQuickaslightning, 
Icutyouwithmy knife!”). 
Harlequinchooses tosimplyget out ofthe way (“WithoneLithe motionIsidestep your 
clumsy attack”). They test, andJean loses. He attempts to retest immediately (“All 
these years of Melee training have given me more skill than that!”). However, 
f 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ultiple challenges can occur simultaneously during any given fight 
occasionally needs some means of determining who acts first and 
This rule can occasionally cause as much confusio 
ve, and the Narrator may choose to apply it only when th 
other critical need to establish who’s going first. 
Harlequin blocks the retest with Dodge ( “Ha! You’re still too slow. I can Dodge strikes 
like that in my sleep!”). Since Harlequin blocked the retest, the results of the original 
test stand. So far, Jean has lost one Quick Attribute Trait and one Melee Trait, 
WhereasHarlequinhas usedonly oneDodge Trait.]eanisnowoff-balance andaneasy 
target for his teacher’s counterattack. 
RELENTING 
A player may choose to acquiesce and admit defeat in a challenge at any 
time before he performs the actual test. Characters who relent lose the challenge 
automatically, but they do not lose any Traits, even if they bid one before 
relenting. They also help the game flow along more smoothly than extended 
Rock-Paper-Scissors matches do. Thank them for being so conscientious. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


BQNUS TRAITS 
Certain weapons and special powers grant a character bonus Traits during 
a challenge. You may add these extra Traits to a character’s total when resolving 
a tie or overbid involving that weapon or special Ability. 
@RRR a= 
CHALLENGES 
Typically, all challenges activate simultaneously in a turn. If you absolutely 
must have anorder ofprecedence, have aNarratorpickone character at random and 
then proceed clockwise around the group, arbitrating each successive challenge. 
THE 
~ C B B  
SCENE 
It’s a fact of life that a large group of characters will decide to mix it up sooner 
or later. Group challenges can seem intimidating even to experiencedNarrators and 
Storytellers. These rules are designed to streamline the resolution process, rather 
than letting the situation devolve into endless matches of Rock-Paper-Scissors. 
First of all, find out who is challenging whom. The easiest way to do so is 
to count to three and have everyone point to the person they wish to target that 
turn. If no one is being challenged by more than one person, then let the 
challenges proceed normally. 
If several characters challenge one target, or one character tries to challenge 
multiple opponents at once, resolve it in the following manner. First deal with 
groups in the order of largest to smallest, just for ease of play. Each attacker must 
bid an appropriate Trait as normal for the challenge. Logistics put a limit of up 
to five characters attacking another character at once. 
Next, the lone character must bid enough Traits to counter every opponent 
in the group. If he does not have enough Traits, he must relent to those 
opponents whose bids he cannot meet. (He may choose which opponents he 
relents to, though.) Resolve those relented challenges first, because the defender 
may succumb before the rest of the group can act. 
After the bidding and relenting phase, the defender and his attackers engage in 
one simultaneous test. The defender compares his sign to each of the attacker’s signs 
and applies the appropriate results. If the defending character throws Scissors and his 
four attackers throw Rock, Scissors, Paper and Paper, the defender loses to the first 
challenger, ties with the second (which he will resolve like any other tie) and beats the 
last two. The defenders and attackers lose any Traits they have bid in a lost test. If the 
defender in the previous example had bid one Trait against every attacker, he would 
have lostoneTrait tothefirst attacker, andanadditionalTraitifhelostthe tieaswell. 
Once the tests have been made, you resolve them in the standard order of 
actions and initiative. However, unless the defender has a special power that 
allows him to take multiple actions, he may attempt to injure only one of his 
attackers, and it must be one who lost a challenge against him. If none of the 
attackers lose, the defender simply suffers the results of their actions. It is possible 
for a defender to lose Traits to the first attackers and then lose a tie to an attacker 
later in the same mob challenge because of those Traits he lost. 
When the defender in a mob challenge uses Abilities or other powers to gain 
retests, treat each attacker’s challenge as a separate test. Therefore, a defender 
would need to spend five Melee Traits in order to retest against five attackers in 
one melee combat challenge. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


TIl-€IE 
Time in Mind’s Eye Theatre works as it does in real life. It moves forward 
inexorably. For the most part, every action plays out in real time, and players are 
expected to stay in character unless they have a rules question. 
A player should never drop character when interacting with other players. 
Doing so ruins the atmosphere for everyone involved. Players may talk through 
challenges, but a character is always considered to be active in the game. If a 
player needs to take a break, he should inform a Narrator. That player should not 
interact with any of the other players while he is out of character. 
The only other exception to this in&aracter rule is when a Narrator calls for a 
timeout. This call may be necessary to resolve a dispute or change the scene if the story 
calls for it. When a Narrator calls “Timeout!”, all players within hearing distance must 
stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator calls out, “Resume’1 or “Game on!” 
Timeoutsshouldbekepttoaminimum,though,sincetheyintermpttheflowofthestory. 
Mind’s Eye Theatre time breaks down into five major allotments: chronicles, 
stories, sessions, scenes and turns. A chronicle is a series of smaller stories that are 
all connected somehow, and which may take months or even years to complete. 
Each complete plot line within the chronicle is called a story. A session is one 
actual night ofplay, although Storytellers may define a session as one night of game 
time if the action ends in media res at the end of the previous game. (Since many 
characters regain spent Traits between sessions, this distinction can be impor- 
tant.) Finally, a scene is the time it takes to resolve the action in one location. 
Once the characters shift locations, the scene has ended. If a session will be taking 
place entirely at one location, a scene can then be defined as roughly one hour. 
In many cases, a scene breaks down into a series of smaller actions that all 
happen in a given location within a short span of time. If you’re fighting several 
groups of Nephandic minions in the local abandoned lot at midnight, that’s all one 
scene. However, you’re taking up a little time as you defeat each group and charge 
the next. There is not time enough to represent a change of scene, even though the 
action usually takes several turns. Just fighting a single minion can take adozen turns 
in itself. One series of challenges against a single opposing force comprises a conflict. 
In roleplaying time, a conflict equals roughly a minute. Therefore, if you 
spend several challenges besting a foe, hacking a computer system or crawling 
through an air duct, that’s one conflict. The conflict really exists as an arbitrary 
time measure for some powers. If a power lasts for a conflict, it remains in effect 
for the series of contiguous challenges against an opposing group or obstacle, and 
it ends as soon as the challenges end. 
(Note that you can’t just wait in reserve during an ongoing conflict as your fnend 
gets beaten down, only to jump in one turn later, claiming that it’s a new conflict and 
$1 
that the enemy’s powers have all expired. The opponent hasn’t moved, and your arrival 
has put only a small pause in the action. You’re still engaged in the same conflict.) 
CHRCBNICLES, 
STBRIES, 
SESSIBNS 
AND SCENES 
I * 
CCBNf LICTS 
TURNS 
Turns are the discrete blocks of time, that make up conflicts and scenes. Turns 
last approximately three seconds, but this measure may vary from challenge to 
a 
it’.’ 
1,“. *’ I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


challenge at the Storyteller’s discretion. In any given turn, a character may take 
one action, and some actions, such as bypassing a complicated security system, may 
even take multiple turns to complete. Other actions, like speaking a short 
sentence, do not use up a character’s turn at all. Once everyone involved in a turn 
has taken an action, the turn ends and another turn begins. 
In some instances, a character may be interrupted before he can take his action or 
be forced to respond to events developing around him. A character may always defend 
himself in such circumstances, but doing so uses up his available action for the turn. 
If a power affects a character for 15 seconds, it is assumed to be in effect for 
four turns when turn-based time is in effect. In normal roleplaying conditions, 
such powers work for their allotted amount of time. 
DCBWNTIITE 
Many aspects of a character’s life are critical to her continued existence, yet 
they either do not make for dramatic roleplaying or they are too intricate to 
perform during game sessions. Storytellers are encouraged to use downtime 
between sessions to allow characters to maintain theirholdings, learnnew Spheres 
and see to other mundane facets of their existence. Other actions and interactions 
between characters may take place during this time as well, but only with 
Storyteller supervision. As long as players don’t use abuse downtime privileges, the 
time between sessions can be a rewarding roleplaying experience in itself. 
HWLTH 
A character in a Laws of Ascension game has different health levels that 
represent the amount of injury the character can endure. These levels include: 
Healthy, Healthy, Bruised, Bruised, Bruised, Wounded, Mounded, Incapaci- 
tated and Mortally Wounded. If a Healthy character loses two health levels from 
a combat challenge, he becomes Bruised. If he loses three more health levels, he 
becomes Wounded, and so on. 
Note: Wound penalties do not affect any tests involving Arete or casting 
Effects, until the mage becomes Incapacitated. A wizard’s will is all he needs to 
8 make magic, after all, and his will doesn’t depend on the flesh for support. Mages 
who are Incapacitated or Mortally Wounded may attempt to use magic if they’re 
conscious, but they can usually enact only those Effects that deal with healing 
their wounds and/ or escaping the battlefield. 
Healthy - 
When a character is Healthy, he is virtually or completely 
~ 
uninjured. Hesuffersnopenaltyasidefrompossiblybeingcosmeticallyscuffedupabit. 
Bruised -A Bruised character is more seriously roughed up, and his injuries 
have started to impair his viability a bit. He is considered one Trait down on all bids, 
so the player must risk an additional Trait to have a chance in any challenge. 
Wounded- When a character is Wounded, he is seriously injured in one 
or more parts of his body. To reflect this injury, he must risk an additional Trait 
to attempt a challenge (because of the Bruised health level of damage), and his 
I opponent wins all ties, regardless of who has more Traits. If the injured character 
has a power that normally allows him to win all ties, he resolves ties through 
comparing Traits instead. Note: a character may always attempt to overbid. 
Incapacitated -An Incapacitated character is completely out of play for at 
least 10 minutes. Even once he regains consciousness, the character is still effectively 
immobile, although he may now whisper pained sentences. He may not enter into 
1 
a 
I ’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


challenges, and he is essentially at the mercy of other characters until he heals at least 
one health level. Characters hit with bashing damage at this point are rendered 
unconscious for one scene or hour, whichever comes first. They’re out cold, but 
they’re not in any serious danger except from prolonged bashing attacks. Characters 
who are hit with lethal or aggravated damage, however, drop to Mortally Wounded. 
Such injuries are more than capable of finishing them off for good. 
Mortally Wounded- A Mortally Wounded individual has little time left. He 
does not regain consciousnessnormally, and he loses a Physical Trait every 10 minutes. 
As m n  as the character runs out of Physical Traits, he dies. Only the assistance of 
someone with the right magic or the Medmne Ability can halt this loss, and the 
character will not even begin to heal unless he is treated by magic or taken to a hospital. 
Those who fail to improve or stabilize in time undergo the complete and permanent 
cessation of all metablic activity that’s conventionally known as death. 
ExampleofP1ay:It‘sjustnotAugusta’sluckyday. 
Thewmmcustoshbeencaught 
in two vicious fights whik en route to rescuing his mage allies. Duringthefirst battle he was shot 
twice, rmdeachshotdidtpuokvelsofkthaldamage. Thefirstshotdropgedhimtoh~stBruised 
health kwel, whik the second lowered him to h 
durd Bruised health kwl. He’s got fm kwls 
of kthal damage to deal with, and what’s worse, a pair of goons surprised him right after that 
as he shuggledback to hcar. They both managed to punch him once before he put them h. 
They infkredone kwelofbashingdamageeachandred~nghim 
to his second Wouddkvel. 
Just one mare kwl of damage of any kind would hve kft him incapacitated at the mercy of 
his attackers. Augusta xowls . What started out as a routine rescue has become a real pain. 
Unkss his jked a n  spme some healkng magic, he’s in for a pretty lung recoplery. 
HEALING 
Mages are mortal, and they must heal at the same rate as anormal human would 
unless they use their magic. Furthermore, they are as susceptible to infections and 
diseases as anyone else, and they must tend their wounds carefully to avoid such 
comp1ications.ThisriskmaynotbemuchofathreatforSonsofEtherwithextensive 
hospital facilities, but a Hollow One without insurance or IDmay have serious cause 
to worry about the nasty cut she got in that back alley brawl. See Laws of the Hunt 
for complete rules regarding infections and diseases. As aquickrule, minor infections 
are coincidental and not especially difficult to heal, while more severe infections 
have a corresponding rise in difficulty. It can even be vulgar to heal serious diseases. 
Some types of damage are more dangerous than others. A punch to the jaw is 
less likely to kill than a knife wound. Bashing damage is any injury that is painful but 
which fades relatively quickly, such as that taken from kicks, punches or tackles. 
Lethal damage (which comes from bullets, swords, knives, etc.) is intended to kill, 
and it takes mortals and mages alike a long time to heal. The Narrator is the final 
arbiter of what counts as bashing or lethal damage. A single person kicking someone 
usually does bashing damage, but a helpless character being stomped on by a gang 
of attackers might well start taking lethal damage to reflect the savage nature of the 
beating. Bashing damage doesn’t usually reduce a character below Incapacitated 
without effort, so it is typically lesslikely to be fatal. However, lethaldamage candrop 
a character to Mortally Wounded in a hurry. A character who’s reached the 
Incapacitated health level with bashing damage subsequently takes lethal damage 
from further bashing attacks. The bashing damage converts to lethal damage, and 
BASHINGAETHAL 
DA~I-IAGE 
.’ - ’ * 
.I L .  ’ @’ 
, Tr‘; 
1 
it may eventually mortally wound or kill the character. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bashing wounds heal fairly quickly, and they are often coincidental to heal 
if the character is clever enough. ("I think she bruisedmy jaw, but I'll live.") Lethal 
wounds take longer to heal, and they may either be coincidental or vulgar to heal, 
depending on the type of injury and the circumstances around it. For example, 
people may accept that an herbal poultice applied speedily, might stop bleeding 
or help deaden pain in the case of something like a knife wound, but they are 
unlikely to believe in the same cure if the character has beenshot. Likewise, amore 
technologically inclinedwizard might be able to sway a modem crowd with a quick 
story about adrenaline shots and cutting-edge anti-coagulants, but he would be out 
of luck in a peasant village where society doesn't recognize such technology. 
As a rule of thumb, however, it is coincidental to heal bashing damage, and 
it is coincidental to heal lethal damage if you do so out of sight of Sleepers. It is 
usually vulgar to heal lethal damage in front of them. If a character cannot or will 
not use magic to treat her injuries, she heals according to the following chart. 
Natural healing is a slow process, and it assumes that the character is getting 
plenty of bed rest and maintaining a low level of activity. 
AGGRAVATED 
WCBUNDS 
2 
Wounds that go beyond the normal bounds of even most magical healing 
-$ powers are called aggravated wounds. Such wounds are caused by injury from 
fire, magical weapons, vulgar magic Effects - 
especially those charged with 
4 
Quintessence - 
or from the teeth and claws of a supernatural creature. A 
Narrator can also deem any other sufficiently severe injury to be aggravated, 
depending on the circumstances. It is always vulgar to heal aggravated damage, 
no matter what. If a characters leaves his wounds to heal normally (that is, with 
time and bed rest), those wounds heal at the same rate as lethal damage. 
Aggravated wounds reflect injuries so deep they have scarred an individual's 
* very Pattern, so an equally dramatic (i.e., vulgar) use of magic is required if one 
wants to set them right in a hurry. Even on their own, aggravated wounds take 
\ 1 , 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


quite a while to heal, as the Pattern rights itself once more. In either case, the 
mage must spend one Quintessence Trait per health level of damage in order to 
energize his Pattern enough to make such a change. Otherwise it is too sluggish 
to flow back into place on its own. 
Fire 
In game terms, all wounds inflicted by normal or magical fires do aggravated 
damage to mages. The player of a character who is on fire must winor tie aSimple 
Test and spend one action dousing the flames. This test reflects the “Stop-Drop- 
Roll” method of extinguishing flames. Other actions are possible, of course, 
subject to the player’s cleverness and/ or use of the appropriate Spheres. 
Essentially, combat involves two characters engaging in physical conflict. The 
players agree what the outcome of the challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate 
Trait, and they perform a test to determine the victor. The following section allows for 
variations on those basic rules, such as situations using surprise or weapons. 
The agreed-upon outcome of a Physical Challenge is often that the loser 
gets injured, but this result is not the only possible one. The two partiescan agree 
to nearly anything, whether it’s wrestling an opponent to the ground or tossing 
him into traffic. The results of a combat challenge may also be different for both 
participants. For example, if a mage is battling a possessed friend, the wizard 
might simply try to subdue him instead of hurting him, while the attacker might 
seek to do some serious bodily harm. 
SURPRISE 
If a player does not respond within three seconds of the declaration of a 
Physical Challenge, the character is considered to have been surprised. Sometimes 
a player is busy with another activity or is playing a character who just isn’t 
prepared for the attack. However, any player who sneaks around whispering 
challenges to get the element of surprise is cheating, plain and simple. A 
Storyteller canalso declare asufficiently clever ambush to be asurprise. If you can’t 
see the enemy coming, she may well get in a good shot at you before you notice. 
In a surprise-attack situation, the surprised character does not get achance to 
counterattackhis challenger on the first combat challenge. For instance, ifa player 
does not respond in time to an attack, but he still wins the challenge, the best he 
can do is escape injury. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test to attack her 
surprisedvictim, she may call for asecondchallenge byriskinganother Trait. After 
this second challenge, regular challenge rules resume. Overbidding is permitted 
for both challenger and challenged in surprise situations. 
m@VEmENT IN C@mBAT 
Three-Step Rule 
Anyone who has just entered combat or who is already involved in combat 
is subject to the three-step rule. In any combat turn, a character may take up to 
three steps and still attack. Moving one step is considered walking cautiously. 
Taking two steps is considered moving directly, and the character is down one 
Trait in Physical Challenges. Taking three steps in a turn is considered running, 
and the character is also down aTrait in Physical Challenges. AnEffect that allows 
for an additional action would allow you to take three additional steps in a turn. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Fair Escape is a simple rule that allows players to escape from potentially 
dangerous in-game situations without actually bounding over furniture or diving 
out of windows. This rule also allows players to avoid combat without going 
through cumbersome challenges to see if they can get away. 
When you use this rule, you can call “Fair Escape!” any time you notice the 
approach of another player with whom you do not wish to interact. Once you 
call for a Fair Escape, you may leave the area without being pursued. There are 
several guidelines that must be followed when using this rule, however: 
You may not use the Fair Escape rule if the person approaching is within 
conversational distance. In such cases, you must initiate a challenge in order to 
flee. Use common sense in places where a great deal of ambient noise reduces one’s 
conversational distance. 
Situations that involve ranged weapons or an ambush in which all exits 
have been blocked or the target is surrounded can negate the use of Fair Escape. 
Again, use common sense. 
A character using invisibility or Effects with similar results may employ a Fair 
Escape at any time before a challenge has been initiated, unless someone with some 
form of magical perception spots him. (Note: Many Apprentice Sphere Effects are 
capable of granting magical perception. However, the mage cannot simply cycle 
through all of his Apprentice-level Sphere Effects in order to detect an invisible foe. 
If a character gives him the slip in one challenge, he remains fooled for the nonce.) 
Characters with supernatural speed - 
such as that which is granted by the 
Time Sphere -may 
gain a Fair Escape by activating their speed before a challenge 
is initiated. If two characters use supernatural speed, whoever uses the highest level 
‘ of supernatural speed wins, and all ties go to the fleeing party. Therefore, a character 
with only a Disciple’s grasp of the Time Sphere who uses an Effect to increase his 
speed cannot get away from a vampiric foe who uses Advanced Ceknty. 
These rules should hasten play, not complicate it. Always try to employ 
For obvious reasons, no real weapons are ever allowed in Mind’s Eye Theatre 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. 
Some weapons have Negative Traits that the wielder’s opponent can use in 
precisely the same way as he would use the wielder’s regular Negative Traits. The 
weapon’s Negative Traits can only be used against the wielder of that weapon. 
Negative Traits for a weapon must be appropriate to the situation. For instance, if 
you are firing a pistol and your opponent wants to use the gun’s Negative Trait Loud 
against you, you can ignore that Negative Trait if you have a silencer on the gun. 
Concealability 
Each weapon has a concealability rating. If you do not have the proper 
amount of clothing or cover to conceal that weapon, you must have that card on 
display at all times. You cannot, for example, pull a broadsword out of your pocket. 
Instead, you must carry that card openly at all times. Optionally, you could pin the 
card to your shirt, indicating that the sword is slung over your shoulder. 
Availability 
Serious firearms and archaic melee weapons can take some time to locate. 
Obtain firearms also requires a permit, which involves undergoing background 
checks or waiting-periods in some areas. A character can turn to less reputable 
channels to find equipment, but doing so often means engaging in shady deals 
and paying vastly inflated prices. Weapons that have Influence values listed 
under Availability indicate the level and type of Influence required in order to 
procure the weapon through illicit channels. Of course, a character must also 
have some level of the Finance Ability, the Resources Background or a money- 
raising Influence to procure exotic melee weapons and nearly all firearms. 
Even though a character can get a weapon, however, he won’t necessarily 
be able to keep it forever. If characters run around firing shotguns and large 
automatic weapons recklessly, they’ll face intensive police manhunts that are 
carried out with extreme prejudice. Take care to make sure that characters with 
powerful weapons understand the equally powerful repercussions that come 
from using them. These consequences not only preserve game balance, but they 
enforce a sense of realism and keep the game from turning into an arms race. 
-, 
SPECIAL 
W W ~ N  
CAPABILITIES 
Some weapons have special abilities that allow an attacker to inflict extra 
damage, ignore certain types ofprotection or strike multiple opponents at once. 
The following is a list of those capabilities. 
Armor-Piercing 
Although they do not inflict extra damage, armor-piercing rounds ignore 
any defenses armor might provide. Such ammunition is typically tricky to 
acquire, though, and legal inquiries often follow its use. 
Destroy Shield 
Although shields are rare in this day and age, certain Inquisitors and 
anachronistic mages still use them. A weapon capable of destroying a shield ‘ 
penetrates it automatically and renders it useless after a certain number of blows, 
!k 
no matter what the size or strength of the shield may be. 
Fully Automatic 
A firearm with this ability can empty dozens of rounds into a single target at 
close range. This attack inflicts an extra health level of damage automatically due 
to sheer volume of fire. However, the character must spend one action reloading 
the weapon after emptying the clip before he may fire the weapon again. 
‘is 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


High-Caliber 
Firearms of particularly high caliber can cause crippling wounds with only 
a few shots. When a high-caliber weapon hits a target, the attacker should make 
a Simple Test immediately. A win indicates that the target suffers an additional 
health level of damage from the shot. 
Incendiary 
Burning weapons cause aggravated wounds to just about anything. Some 
incendiary weapons, such as flame-throwers or molotov cocktails, burn the 
target with streams or explosions of fire. Others such as incendiary rounds (“hot 
loads”) burn the target with superheated ammunition. 
Mass-Trauma 
Certain weapons are so powerful that they inflict massive damage on a 
target by literally tearing away large portions of flesh. Such weapons score an 
extra health level of damage automatically when used appropriately. 
Speed 
Fast weapons can preempt an opponent’s attack, allowing the attacker with 
the speedier weapon to strike and do his damage first. A character must have the 
Meke Ability to use this special weapon capability, and he must be attacking or 
otherwise actively using the weapon in order to gain this benefit. Fast weapons 
gain a preemptive strike only against opponents in hand-to-hand or melee 
combat, and the enemy must have a weapon that is Slow, Heavy or Clumsy. 
Since many attack challenges are resolved simultaneously for ease of play, this 
ability is not always very useful. However, if the Storyteller opts to allow each attacker 
to test individually, this ability gives characters with fast weapons an advantage. It also 
’ [ allows a character with a fast weapon to preempt someone who’s attacking a friend in 
order to block the attack, disarm the attacker or strike the attacker first. 
Spray 
The weapon can strike several targets at once, as noted under the weapon’s 
specific parameters. The shooter makes one test against all the targets simulta- 
1 neously. Each target who fails the test suffers the weapon’s damage, while each 
‘ target who succeeds avoids the weapon’s damage. The shooter risks only the 
Traits required to test against each member of the group, and he loses Traits only 
if any of the defenders wins the test. 
BIDDING WWCBN 
TRAITS 
During a normal hand-to-hand fight, characters bid Physical Traits against 
their opponents’ Physical Traits. However, a character may use his Mental Traits 
instead ifhe is using firearms. Ifhis opponent isalsousingafirearm, she bids Mental 
Traits as well. If the opponent is not using a firearm and is merely trying to dodge, 
she uses her Physical Traits. This instance is one of the few in which Traits 
associated with different Attributes may be used against one another. 
WW@N 
‘EXAmPLES 
mELEE W W C D N S  
Knife/Dagger -These easily concealed weapons are very common, they’re 
lightning fast in the hands of a skilled user, and they can also be used as ranged 
weapons if a character uses his Athletics Ability properly. Popular with many 
mages, they often function as magical foci as well. 
’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: One lethal health level 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed: Inclose combat against any weapon that has the Negative 
Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the knife-fighter gains the option to preempt the 
opponent’s attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Melee Ability. 
Broken Bottle - 
A good example of a weapon made from scratch. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Vest (ouch!) 
Damage: One lethal health level 
Availability: Any 
Cane/Club/Ax - 
These common weapons cover anything from chair legs 
to walking sticks to hand axes to tonfa. Canes and clubs bludgeon while axes cut, 
but the essential function is the same. And although they fell out of fashion with 
most mortals a century ago, canes remain quite in vogue with many Hermetics, 
as well as more than a few Hollow Ones. Most canes are more fashionable than 
practical, although metal or especially stout wooden ones may still make suitable 
weapons at the Narrator’s discretion. 
Bonus Traits: Cane: 1, Club: 2, Ax: 3 
Negative Traits: Clumsy. Many canes have Fragile as well. 
Concealability: Trench coat 
Damage: Cane/Club-One bashing health level; Ax-Two 
lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, though especially ornate canes can be quite expensive. 
Special Ability: Ax: Destroy Shield. Axes render shields useless after three blows. 
Nunchaku - 
There are actually thousands of variations on the nunchaku 
concept:Themnriki-gusari, satjatjoenand the kawumgaare but afewofthe better- 
known examples. Weapons of this type deliver their damage primarily through 
crushing force delivered by lightning-fast strikes. Some are bladed, while others 
are nothing more than a humble length of wood and chain. However, they are all 
considered to have the same basic characteristics for game purposes. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: One lethal health level 
Availability: Any 
Special Ability: Speed: In close combat against any weapon that has the Negative 
Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or S h ,  
the nunchaku wielder gains the option to preempt the 
opponent’s attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Meke Ability. 
Staff/Spear-These 
classic weaponsof the wandering mystic are still popular 
with many Akashic Brothers, Verbena and other martial enthusiasts. Staves are 
cheap and easy to make, and they tend to attract less attention than many other 
melee weaponsdo. Plus, they are extremely dangerous in the hands of a skilled user. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Spears are much the same as staves, but they have a blade at one or both ends, and 
they inflict an impressive amount of damage with slashing or piercing attacks. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Staff: Clumsy. Spear: Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: Nope. 
Damage: S d -  Two bashing health levels; Spear - 
Three lethal health levels 
Availability: Any martial-arts store, although spears are usually a lot more 
expensive to purchase than staves, and carrying one is a lot harder to justify to 
inquisitive authority figures. 
Fencing Blades - 
Not too many mages rely on the fencing weapons of 
yesteryear. Foils and rapiers just aren't as popular as symbols of magic, and the 
practice fencing foils lack much real effectiveness. Those mages who practice 
combat fencing are more likely to use a heavy French foil, a Spanish or Italian 
rapier, or a German schlager. These weapons are thicker and more deadly than 
the modem sport tools with which most people are familiar. This category also 
includes the katana, simply because using a katana relies more on speed than on 
strength. Most katana are crafted by hand. While mass-produced versions exist, 
they are substantially inferior to their pure cousins. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Fragile 
Concealability: Trench coat 
Damage: One lethal health level 
you do find someone to sell you a genuine katana, it will be expensive. 
Special Ability: Speed: In close combat against any weapon that has the 
Negative Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the fencer gains the option to preempt the 
Shortsword -The 
gladius, scuta, jiann and similar weapons make up the 
class of shortswords. They are bladed weapons a foot and a half or so in length, 
that are made primarily for thrusting. Such blades are not very common in the 
modem age, and they aren't as popular as magical tools as broadswords or knives. 
i They can be effective weapons in a pinch, though. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Is 
Negative Traits: Short 
Concealability: Trench coat 
Damage: One lethal health level 
Availability: Any. Shortswords don't rely as much on blade strength as 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


different set of characteristics. The typical broadsword has a heavy, thick blade 
and a chisel-like edge made to hack through armor and batter the opponent to 
death while cutting off chunks of flesh. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Concealability: Trench coat (barely) 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Broadswords typically must be special-ordered, although 
cheap and not especially durable versions are sometimes available at military- 
supply stores or Renaissance festivals. 
&CHAIC 
RANGED W W C D N S  
Longbow - 
These huge, powerful bows make mincemeat of many kinds of 
armor, and more than a few Akashics and Euthanatoi still learn the arts of archery 
as part of their training. Note: Characters use the Athletics Ability for retests when 
using bows, and those without this Ability receive only a third of the usual Bonus 
Traits (rounddown) due to thedifficultyofusingtheseweapons. Modemcompound 
bows are smaller, and they use pulley systems to generate powerful pull. These bows 
donothave theNegativeTrait:Clumsy, but they give theuseronlyfive BonusTraits. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy 
Concealability: No way. 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any. 
Special Ability: Armor-Piercing: Longbows ignore chain armor and ballistic 
vests. Destroy Shield: One shot from a longbow renders a shield useless. 
Shurikeaart - 
Akashic Brothers in particular are fond of using these 
small chunks of sharpened metal as emergency weapons, but other mages 
sometimes use darts or other small hurled objects as well. Such a weapon is 
usually more a nuisance than an implement of destruction, however. In some 
rare cases, a weapon of this sort may carry poisons, but that’s up to the discretion 
of the Storyteller to adjudicate. 
Bonus Traits: 1 
Negative Traits: Clumsy (Shuriken and darts are notoriously inaccurate 
beyond short range) 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: One lethal health level 
Availability: Any. 
Special Ability: Spray: Shuriken and darts may be thrown in groups that can 
strike multiple close targets, if the thrower has enough skill (at least one level 
of Athletics Ability). Such a spray hits up to three targets that are within a pace 
of each other and within 20 feet of the thrower. 
C~NVENTICDNAL 
FIWS 
Pistol - 
This designation covers nearly any sort of small- and medium- 
caliber handgun, from zip guns and holdout pieces to 9mms and standard 
police-issue sidearms. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Pocket 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 3 or Underworld 2 otherwise. 
Heavy Pistol - 
This designation covers the monsters of the handgun 
range, from the Desert Eagle to a .454 Cassull. These tremendous guns use high- 
caliber ammunition to punch large holes in their targets. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Make a Simple Test after a successful chal- 
lenge to shoot a target. Winning the Simple Test indicates that the target takes 
an extra level of damage. 
Rifle - 
Favored by many hunters and snipers. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None. 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: High-Caliber: Rifles may be loaded with high-caliber 
ammunition. Note that the character must acquire such ammunition specifi- 
cally to gain this benefit. It is not included automatically when using a rifle. 
Shotgun - 
This powerful weapon fires a spray of pellets, making it fairly 
easy to hit one's target. 
Bonus Traits: 3 
Negative Traits: Loud 
Concealability: None 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spay: A shotgun may affect up to three targets if they are 
standing immediately next to each other and they are farther than 20 feet from 
the person firing the shotgun. This capability remains in effect only if the 
shotgun is loaded with pellets, not slugs. Mass-Trauma: A shotgun can cause an 
extra health level of damage to a single target standing within five feet. 
Submachine Gun-These 
weapons are very powerful, and they fire a large 
number of bullets very quickly, which makes them the favorites in situations 
where accuracy isn't as important as hitting a large number of targets at the same 
time. The law requires that these guns be sold as non-automatic weapons, with 
only single-shot capability, but a use of the Technology Ability can convert them 
to fully automatic fire. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Loud 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two lethal health levels 
Availability: Any, if registered and non-automatic. Police 4, Street 4 or 
Underworld 3 otherwise. 
Special Ability: Spray: A submachine gun may affect up to five targets if 
they’re standing immediatelynext to each other and they are farther than 10 feet 
from the person firing the gun. Fully Automatic: A submachine gun inflicts an 
additional health level of damage if the shooter empties the entire clip into a 
target standing no more than five feet away. 
Chain Gun - 
The dreaded signature weapon of the cyborg HIT Mark, 
these full-blown assault cannons fire a disgusting amount of bullets at great speed 
and shred anything caught in their path. Unless one is willing to use some serious 
vulgar magic, however, they cannot be carted around willy-nilly. Conventional 
chain guns are heavy and hard to control, and they require a tripod mount and 
sometimes even a second person to operate properly. Also, authorities will stop 
at nothing to track down characters who sport this kind of firepower. 
Bonus Traits: 5 
Negative Traits: Loud, Clumsy 
Concealability: None, although HIT Marks may due to magical enhancement. 
Damage: Three lethal health levels 
Availability: Only through military or Technocratic channels. 
Special Ability: S p y :  A chain gun may affect up to five targets if they’re standing 
immediately next to each other and they are farther than 10 feet from the person firing 
the gun. Fully Automatic: A chain gun inflicts an additional health level of damage if 
the entire turn of fire is emptied into a target standing no more than five feet away. 
Below are the statisticsfor two basic technomagical weapons. Remember that 
the difference between these weapons and using, say, Forces or Matter Effects to do 
the same thing is that Sleepers can use these weapons as well as mages. They run 
on Quintessence batteries, so one needs no magical knowledge to use them. 
However, non-mages cannot fix, recharge, alter or otherwise tinker with these 
weapons since they lack the enlightenment to truly understand how they work. 
Laser Pistol -Although it’s not exactly standard Technocratic issue yet, 
this category serves as a catch-all for not only laser pistols but other similar 
outlandish firearms, including sonic disrupters, disintegration rays or other ? 
such sci-fi weapons. 
Bonus Traits: 2 
Negative Traits: Clumsy, Loud 
Concealability: Jacket 
Damage: Two aggravated health levels 
Clip: 10 Quintessence Traits (one Trait per shot) 
Availability: Only Technocracy agents or others with access to sufftciently 
enlightened science (such as some Etherites and their acolytes) can have this weapon. 
Special Ability: Armor-Piercing: Laser pistols completely ignore all conven- 
tional armor. Only magical Effects or Primium armor can help one soak the 
TKHNCBITIAGICAL 
WWCBNS 
3 
damage from a laser blast. 
* Tr’; 
b 
** t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Plasma Thrower - 
Heaven help us! These monsters of Enlightened 
Science are impossibly vulgar to wield, and it requires a hideous amount of 
Quintessence to keep one in operation, but they do put tremendous holes in 
things very quickly. They fire a bolt of superheated plasma at their target, 
reducing it to melted goo in seconds. They can also be configured to fire a solid 
stream of plasma that’s capable of dousing multiple targets at once, although 
doing so drains the weapon’s power supply very quickly. 
Bonus Traits: 6 
Negative Traits: Clumsy , Heavy, Loud 
Concealability: Uh-huh. Sure. Keep dreaming. 
Damage: Three aggravated health levels 
Clip: Six Quintessence Traits (one Trait per shot, or three Traits for each 
plasma stream fired) 
Availability: No! Even most senior Technocrats have trouble getting their 
hands on one of these things, and they do so only if they can justify the need for 
extreme force in dealing with a very specific threat. And as soon as that threat 
is dealt with, you better believe this thing is going back into storage, or some very 
ill-tempered operatives will be dispatched to recover both weapon and wielder 
without mercy or delay. Before anyone asks, very few Etherites or other 
Tradition folks have access to such weapons of total destruction either. Those 
who like to trot them out to deal with their problems will be facing gangs of 
ticked off Paradox spirits and/ or Technocracy agents in no time. 
Special Ability: Spray: A plasma thrower may affect up to five targets if 
they’re standing immediately next to eachother and they are further than 10 feet 
I from the person firing the weapon. Incendiary: Targets injured by a plasma 
thrower are being melted rapidly. Mass-Trauma: Plasma melts away whole 
sections of the body and inflicts an extra health level of damage on a single target 
standing within five feet of the shooter. 
’ 
h
@
R
 
4 
Since it stops incoming damage, armor effectively grants a character extra 
‘ health levels. These health levels are lost before the character himself suffers any 
damage in combat. Ofcourse, armor doesnot stop all attacks. A bulletproofvest does 
little good for a character whose DNA is being scrambled by Life magic, for instance. 
Different types of armor can absorb different amounts of punishment before 
losing their effectiveness. It should be noted, however, that armor that has lost 
all its health levels is not necessarily completely destroyed. Instead, it has been 
temporarily rendered useless. Of course, some attacks may destroy armor beyond 
#= repair. Fixing armor requires the proper tools and a Static Physical Challenge 
with the appropriately specialized Craft Ability. 
Armor has two different traits for game purposes. Health levels indicate 
how many levels of damage the armor can absorb before it needs to be 
I repaired. Negative Traits are the drawbacks a wearer gains for donning a 
I 
= particular type of armor. 
Chain armor - 
This category covers most medium levels of metal armor, 
including scale and brigandine. True chain armor is quite rare in the modem age, 
but some hunters of the supernatural keep a suit on hand, as does the occasional 
Chorister or Akashic Brother. 
~ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


P~lm~um 
AR~CEIR 
One special type of protection exists for mag6 - 
armor forged from the 
ial anti-magical alloy known as Primium. Characters wearing Primium armor 
based rota such as Forces blastsor Mutter 
and other less direct rota may still be 
guardian robots and the Celestial Chorus knows of a few suits of 
Primium armor is extremely di 
the Technocracy, so its use is 
expensive to produce, even 
granted only for especially 
orytellers should make sure to maintain game balance when includ- 
ium armor in their chronicles. As the occasional rude surprise OT 
s fine, but if the players start joking about how 
y goons has Primium vests, something’s wrong 
f magical metallurgy, so treat it accordingly. 
Health levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Any. Chain armor must generally be custom made, and it can 
cost upward of $500 or more. 
Plate armor -Extremely expensive and hard to come by, these ornate suits 
of interlocking metal plates provide excellent protection at the cost of a great 
deal of mobility. 
Health levels: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Any. Plate mail must generally be custom-ordered, and it can 
cost upward of $3000 or more. 
Ballistic (“bulletproof”) vest -This basic level of protection shields the 
wearer from some dangers, and it doesn’t attract the same kind of attention that 
more archaic or complicated forms of armor are bound to bring. 
Health levels: 2 
Negative Traits: Heavy 
Availability: Police 4 or Underworld 3 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Reinforced armor (“riot gear”) -As the favored type of armor for military 
personnel and law enforcement officers expecting especially dangerous situa- 
tions, these full-body suits provide excellent protection. They even stop many 
types of small arms fire. They are impossible to conceal, however, and they 
attract a great deal of attention. 
Health levels: 3 
Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy 
Availability: Police 5 or Underworld 4 
In rare cases, the Technocracy outfits its agents with specially designed 
technomagical armor. The examples listed here are just a couple of items. Many 
more varieties exist. 
Silksteel suit -Men in Black never seem to become ruffled in combat, and 
this is why. These specially enhanced black suits absorb damage almost as well 
as ballistic armor. 
TKHNWIIAGICAL 
AN~ICBR 
Health levels: 1 
Negative Traits: None 
Availability: Technocracy operatives only. 
Special Ability: Fire-Retardant: The silksteel suit doesn’t catch on fire. 
Attacks that would normally cause the subject to bum over successive tums can 
still cause damage, but the fire goes out automatically. 
Magnetic shield-Likealaserpistol, amagneticshieldpweredwithQuintesence 
canbeusedbyjustaboutanyone.Tneshieldradiatesfromasmallbandwomonthewrist 
and makes a circle about afoot across that repels attacks from just about any source. The 
strength of the field deflects even fire or unarmed attacks. However, each attack weakens 
the shield a little more until the device must be recharged by a qualified technician. 
Health levels: 2 per attack 
Negative Traits: None 
Power: 10 Quintessence, using 1 per health level absorbed from each attack 
Availability: Technocracy operatives only. 
Many weapons allow a character to stand at a distance from a target and 
engage him in combat. In such situations, the character must still go over to the 
target (after shouting “Bang!” or “Twang!”) and engage in a challenge. 
~ 
~ 
If a character has surprised her opponent, she has the option of calling for 
* ’ a second test, even if she loses the first test. Once the second challenge is called, 
-k play continues as normal. If the target has no ranged weapon with which to 
return fire, he cannot counterattack his attacker until he closes the distance. 
If the target is aware of the attack before it happens, and he has a ranged 
weapon of his own, he is not considered surprised for the first attack. He may 
, t shoot back right away, and challenges are resolved normally. 
.* 
Characters using the Athktics Ability to throw projectiles like knives or 
I 
axes fall under the same rules for regular ranged combat, including cover. 
Questions of range should not be a problem, but if it becomes an issue use 
*: 
common sense. Also, don’t forget to make allowances for things like characters 
whose strength or range has been enhanced with various Effects. 
; 
RANG~D 
C~ITIBAT 
‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


C@V€R 
Fighting with ranged weapons allows combatants to stand some distance apart. 
Therefore, participants in a ranged combat can also dive for cover. When resolving 
eachrangedcombatchallenge, eachcombatantcan presentoneTrait ofcover toadd 
to his total number of Traits. These cover Traits may not be used as an initial bid in 
the challenge, but they do add to a player's total in the event of a tie or an overbid. 
This aver can take the form of whatever obstacles are around and within reach, but 
don't actually dive for them. A Narrator might be required to describe what cover 
is around, unless the combatants can agree on what cover is available. 
If cover is extensive, it may be worth more than one Trait. The number of 
Traits available for cover is left for challengers to agree on, or for a Narrator to 
decree. Hiding behind a boulder, for example, might be worth two Traits, while 
hiding behind a thin wooden fence might count as just one. If one combatant goes 
completely under cover (he cannot be seen at all and he is thoroughly protected), 
he cannot be hit. The attacker must change position to get a clear shot. 
~ E L E  
AND BRAWLING 
Melee fighting can occur only when two parties are within weapon's reach of each 
other. Characters using melee weapons often have access to special abilities if they also 
possess the Melee Ability. For example, a trained character using a fencing foil can take 
advantage of his weapon's speed when fighting a character wielding an ax. 
Brawling can occur only when two characters are within arm's length of 
each other. Characters engaged in a brawl may use unarmed combat techniques 
on each other, including trips, kicks, punches, wrestling holds and throws. 
However, all brawling tests result in one health level of bashing damage 
regardless of the description, unless the character possesses some supernatural 
power or other ability that specifically allows for extra damage. 
SPECIALIZED 
FIGHTING 
STYLES 
Buying a specialized fighting style under the Melee or Brawl Ability allows you 
to describe how your character moves in order to justify retests, and it adds acertain 
flair to your attacks and defenses. However, doing so does not allow you to do extra 
damage or specific injuries. The only exception is the Akashic Brotherhood's 
specialty Do, which allows the attacker to inflict lethal damage unarmed. 
T W ~ G U N  
I~BTGI 
It's possible to use more than one weapon at a time in combat, although it's quite 
tricky. Justperformingataskwiththewronghanddetractsfromyourchanceofsuccess. 
Compounding matters by doing something else with the other hand doesn't help. 
For the purposes of simplicity, it's usually easiest to assume that the 
character has the same-handedness as the player. Furthermore, these rules do 
not apply to common uses of both hands, such as typing, playing a musical 
instrument or working a craft. 
Therefore, you must bid a total of three Traits to initiate the challenge, and you 
have a lower chance of success. 
When you specialize in a fighting style, you can choose Two-Weapon Combat 
or Florentine for your specialty. Doing so negates one penalty Trait from your 
attacks with the specified form ofcombat. Therefore, instead ofbidding twoTraits 
1 t!, I, I 
' 
When performing tasks with the off hand, you suffer a two-Trait penalty. b; 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


with your primary hand and three with your off hand, you would bid one for your 
primary hand and two Traits for your off hand. Developing such a specialty should 
take months of training. Also, remember to use common sense about the weapons 
that can be employed in this manner. Using two pistols or even two broadswords 
is within the realm of possibility (this is a game, after all). Using two shotguns or 
two spears at the same time, however, is out of the question. 
When using both hands, you get only one extra action, regardless of Time 
Effects or similar speed-altering powers, and you split your actions equally between 
both hands. If you use a Time rote that's good for two extra actions, and you're using 
both hands, you get your normal action, your two Time actions and your extra hand 
action, for a total of four actions. You would then split up those actions between 
each hand. If you took an action or two to do other things, you'dsplit the remainder 
evenly. Any leftover actions are applied to your primary hand automatically. 
CeNTESTS @f W I L L  
Contests of will, in which two rivals try to dominate each other without 
coming to blows (or rotes), are actually a fairly common occurrence in mage 
society. The idea is to force one's rival to back down before a real conflict 
actually arises. Success in a contest of wills is determined in one of two ways. 
First, it is highly recommended that this action be roleplayed out rather than 
resorting to the rules. In this case, if one of the players relents while roleplaying 
this contest, his opponent is the winner. 
If a quick result is needed, or if neither of the players relents, a Social 
Challenge can determine the victor instead. Remember, though, that a contest 
of wills is supposed to be a moment of dramatic tension, not simply a chance to 
show off one's social prowess. 
TRUE 
F
~
H
 
True Faith is the belief in a power, entity, consciousness or purpose that is 
greater than oneself. As such, it is not limited to any particular religion. Even 
mages can have it, but even so, they must be of the most pure character. Only 
the trulv selfless, caring, compassionate and courageous have a chance at 
- 
possessing True Faith, and it's not a certainty even then. 
True Faith is also apotent weapon against Infernal agents such as the Nephandi 
or the undead, and it can drive them from the area or even turn back their powers 
if the faith in question is strong enough. Members of the Celestial Chorus tend to 
'* 
be the most common wizards with True Faith (if it can be said to be common at all, 
: that is), but it is not limited to them. Verbena, Dreamspeakers, Akashics, Cultists 
a and even Euthanatoi have all been known to display True Faith as well. 
' Technomancers' faith in science tends to preclude such superstitious beliefs, but 
even so, it is not impossible for them to have it. It is simply much less likely. 
Characters may improve their degree of faith only with exceptional roleplaying 
" 1  and explicit Storyteller approval. The game uses for True Faith are covered 
' exhaustively in Laws of the Hunt, but some basic rules for Faith are included here. 
By brandishing his holy symbol, the bearer gains the Social Trait: 
Intimidating when repelling Nephandi or the undead. If someone uses it to strike 
a n  such a supernatural creature, a holy symbol grants the extra Physical Traits 
Burning and Searing, and it inflicts one level of aggravated damage. If a target is 
: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


supernaturally repelled by crosses, he takes an additional level of aggravated 
damage if a person with True Faith so much as touches his bare skin with a cross. 
A character with True Faith may attempt to repel Nephandi or vampires by 
brandishing his holy symbol, invoking his belief (“In the name of 
, I command 
you to be gone!”) and engaging in a Social Challenge. If the faithful character wins 
the challenge, the cursed being must flee the area immediately. Even if the character 
fails, the targetmust stillbackoff afewfeetandcowerbeforetakingaction.Thetarget 
still may not initiate any spells or attacks during the next turn, although she may 
defend herself normally. A target may resist this use ofTrue Faith only by attempting 
to overbid with Willpower. If she currently possesses at least twice as many 
Willpower Traits as the faithful character, she remains unaffected. A character may 
attempt to repel multiple targets with a group challenge. 
A character may choose to add his Faith Traits to his total Traits on any 
test to resist magical Effects or any of the powers of an Infernal agent. This system 
reflects the character placing his faith in the certainty of his defense, and it can 
offer an advantage in a crucial moment. Remember, however, that the character 
is still subject to the usual rules about crises of faith if he fails any such defensive 
tests, making this tactic risky at best. 
It is much easier to lose one’s True Faith than it is to gain it. Any time a 
character fails a test in which True Faith is involved, he has a crisis of faith. 
During such a time, he is one Trait down on all Social Challenges for the 
remainder of the scene, and he unable to invoke his True Faith again until that 
Trait has been restored. (The Trait returns at the Narrator’s discretion, but it 
should involve excellent roleplaying.) 
DERANGE~ENTS 
More than a few mages think that they’ve gone crazy when the Awakening 
hits, but fortunately this isn’t the case very often. However, the war for reality 
can still exact a heavy toll on who fight it. Bending reality to suit one’s will, 
traveling to worlds far removed from our own and facing down the wrath of the 
universe personified is stuff that would snap lesser minds in seconds. Even as 
strong-willed as mages are, they still risk developing derangements when they 
face the horrors that lurk in reality’s shadows or confront overpowering condi- 
tions ofextreme terror, guilt or anxiety. The Storyteller may decide aderangement 
is in order after any experience that generates especially intense and unpleasant 
emotions, or which violates a character’s beliefs or ethics severely. 
Derangements usually become active only when certain particular circum- ‘1 
stances trigger them. Once activated, though, derangements remain in effect for 
the rest of the scene, and players must modify their character’s Traits, attitudes and :,‘ 
behavior in accordance with the derangement description. Keep in mind that a ‘- 
mage with a derangement is not the same as a Marauder. The chaos wizards have 
used some unknown magical means to harness madness as a shield against 
Paradox, but a character suffering a derangement is just insane. What’s more, a 
deranged mage can still be cured, whereas the path of a Marauder is a one-way 
street. Of course, nothing says that a deranged mage might not take that path one 
day, but that’s a question for the player and Storyteller in question to explore. 
Characters may resist their derangements by expending a Willpower Trait. 
This effect lasts for one scene, but if the trigger is still present at the end of that 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


time, the character must spend another Willpower Trait. In the case of 
particularly intense mental stress, Narrators may rule that a Static Willpower 
Challenge or additional Willpower Traits are required. It is up to the Storyteller 
to determine what amount of time and Willpower is required to cure a 
derangement, and such cures are best left to thoughtful and involved roleplaying 
rather than a simple Trait expenditure. 
Finally, remember that experiencing derangements are different from 
entering Quiet. While both conditions may sometimes cause similar effects in 
mages, one stems from a Paradox Backlash, while the other is the result of more 
mundane disturbance. A truly unlucky wizard might suffer from both conditions 
at once, or a prolonged Quiet might create some permanent derangement, but 
the conditions are intrinsically different. 
Note: Nothing about the way a deranged person acts is funny or arbitrary. 
The insane character is only reacting to the stimuli that he perceives to be real. 
As far as he knows, his behavior is perfectly normal. Players should also never 
forget that the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules of safety still apply when roleplaying 
derangements. Roleplaying Cnmson Rage is fine, but smashing the scenery or 
s is against the rules and obnoxious (not to mention 
who aren’t playing the game). Don’t do it. 
Bulimic characters salve their guilt and insecurity by overindulging in 
activities that comfort them (such as eating). Characters with this affliction will 
gorge themselves as much as possible under stress then purge their systems 
drastically. At the Narrator’s discretion, the character may overindulge in other 
pleasurable activities - 
sex, dancing, even Quintessence -but such alterations 
should be uncommon, and they should be justified in the character’s history. 
A character with this derangement experiences unprovoked fits of anger 
gs of helplessness and inadequacy. Most such fits are 
o overcome some obstacle, or being confronted by a specific 
ch as pain, emotional distress or romantic failure). The 
ith the Narrator to determine what triggers his character’s 
derangement. Whenever this derangement is active, the character gains the 
Negative Traits: Vioknt x2 and Impatient, and the player should roleplay the fury 
as well as possible within the Mind’s Eye Theatre rules of safety. 
ing this affliction react to stress by adopting a specific set 
s. In the process, they suffer blackouts or periods of memory loss. 
When confronted by extreme stress, the character must win a Static Willpower 
Challenge. If he fails, the character blacks out and the player must roleplay the 
character’s trancelike state. Otherwise, control of the character passes to a 
Narrator for a scene, who dictates the actions the character takes in order to 
i * ~ 
remove the stress. At the end of the fugue, the character comes to his rightful 
senses with no memory of his fugue actions. 
rs with this derangement are unable to control their emotions 
subjected to stress or pressure. They become vulnerable to wild 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


mood swings and fits of intense violence against the source of their discomfort. 
The mage must make a Willpower test against five Traits any time such stress 
is present. If she fails, she is two Traits down on all Social tests due to her wildly 
fluctuating moods, and she gains the Negative Trait: Violent as well. In addttion, 
this derangement activates automatically whenever the mage fails in a particu- 
larly stressful or important challenge. (Narrators have final say on what classifies 
as such a dramatic failure.) 
Manic-Depression 
This derangement causes a character to suffer devastating mood swings. 
Whenever the character fails to achieve a personal goal, she must win a Static 
Willpower Challenge or fall into adepressive state for anumberofscenesdetermined 
by the Narrator. While depressed, the character’s Willpower Traits are considered 
halved (round down, minimum one) for purposes of Trait comparison, and she may 
not use Effects to raise her Physical Traitsor otherwise lighten her mood. After that, 
she enters aperiod of highly upbeat energy and excitement, in which she pursues her 
goals obsessively for a number of scenes equal to the time she spent in depression. 
During this manic time, she has the Negative Trait: Impatient x2. 
Megalomania 
These individuals have made power the focus of their existence, and they 
characters must always be the most potent individuals in their environment. Where 
the power stems from is irrelevant as long as they are dominant. They believe that 
other people are divided into two classes: lesser beings and beings elevated beyond 
their worth. Due to their supreme confidence, mages with this derangement are 
considered one Trait up on all Willpower tests while their derangement is active. 
However, they must also make a Willpower test (difficulty six Traits) to resist any 
opportunity to put people in their place or reprimand any contentious upstarts who 
dare to presume beyond their station during that time. Although megalomaniacs 
play for keeps, the actions they take against others in this state neednot be mindlessly 
violent. However, they are typically vicious in the extreme. They are designed to 
humiliate the offender and exalt the mage’s standing in the eyes of others. 
, - 
Multiple Personalities 
A character with this derangement has suffered mental anguish so severe that his 
mind reacted by creating additional personas. Each personality is relevant to the 
trauma that caused it, and the player should work with the Storyteller to determine 
each personality’s Nature and what triggers a particular one to rise to the surface. When 
a personality is triggered, it assumes control until the conditions it was created to deal 
with have passed. Characters can manifest different Abilities and even Spheres for 
each personality, however, all such Traits must still be purchased normally. What a 
personality believes it can do is often very different from what it is actually capable of. 
~ 
Any such arrangements must be worked out with the Storyteller. 
Obsessive/Compulsive 
Characters suffering from this derangement are driven to control their environ- 
ment. Obsessive characters keep one aspect of their life constant, be it personal 
cleanliness or simply keeping things quiet. Compulsive characters perform specific 
actions or sets of actions, such as washing their hands constantly or always saying i 
lengthy prayers after touching another person. Obsessive/ compulsive characters are 
one Trait up to resist any Mind Effects or any other attempts to coerce them to give up 
their set behaviors, but they attack anyone who tries to prevent them from adhering 
I 
F; ’ - 
1, .I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to their derangement. They need not try to kill the target, but they will d i c t  as much 
harm as is necessary to allow them to indulge in their derangement once again. If no 
clear individual is the source of their frustration, then the nearest person at hand will 
sufhce. Failing that, the scenery or even the character himself is in for a world of hurt. 
Paranoid beings believe that all their woesand suffering stem fro mamalicious 
external source. Many afflicted beings come up with intricate theories about just 
who is against them and why. Those they suspect of being against them are often 
subject to swift and brutal violence. Paranoid characters trust no one, not even 
family members or close friends, and they have a difficult time interacting with 
others. They are one Trait down on all Social Challenges while their derangement 
is active, and they suffer from the Negative Traits: Vioknt and Condescending. 
Characters suffering from this affliction avoid facing responsibilities or 
consequences by retreating to a younger state of mind in which they feel that less 
Individuals with this derangement have had their psyche fractured by terrible, 
unresolved inner conflicts. Most people conceive of this disorder when they think 
about insanity. Victims might imagine anything from the relatively harmless delusion 
that they’rewalking agoldfishonaleash, tothemoresinisterconvictionthat they must 
cut out their children’s eyes to keep them from being tainted by the evil on television. 
Even still, this disorder is anything but arbitrary. The player should work with the 
Storyteller to determine a general set of behaviorj relevant to the original trauma. 
Mages with this derangement are unpredictable and dangerous. In situations where 
their inner conflict flares up, they must retest any kind of challenge to retain self- 
* control that theywin. ( Ifthey win thatretest, they do not have toretest again, though.) 
i 
TRADITI~N 
PWTICS 
Life is like high school, only with money. 
- 
Frank Zappa 
Many young mages assume that enlightenment will bring about tolerance, 
; understanding and an end to the kind of petty politics that runs rampant in the 
mundane world. Unfortunately, such isn’t usually the case. Mages are as famous 
for their egos as their abilities, and feuds can last decades or even centuries as one 
group of mages tries to assert its dominance or its paradigm over another. Even 
within a Tradition, various cliques and factions vie for recognition and control 
of resources. Mages who don’t mind what they say or who they say it to can 
* 
’ 
,. 
e 
1 ’ auicklv find themselves outcasts. 
! .  
; THE 
CCBUNCIL NINE 
Once, the Traditions had a dream of unity, in which all mages would work 
together to achieve Ascension and restore the Mythic Ages to humanity. At the 
’ *_( pinnacle of this dream stood the Council of Nine, a collection of the wisest and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


most powerful mages of each Tradition who would oversee everyone’s efforts and 
provide a neutral ground for the exchange of ideas and settling of grievances. 
Sheltered in a Realm known simply as Horizon, the Council met for several 
centuries, weathering the worst times on Earth and encouraging the bursts of 
creativity and invention that kept magic alive as the Technocratic Union 
spread across the globe. As the Hermetics and their numerologists well know, 
nine is a number that represents the highest synthesis of power. 
Destiny can be cruel, however, for a combination of political infighting and 
a crippling invasion have recently brought the Council crashing down. Nothing 
has been heard from Horizon since the Avatar Storm began and the Gauntlet 
strengthened. Even many Masters on Earth disappeared or fled to seek refuge 
from a world that balked at their magical presence. 
As a result, the Traditions are left without much of their senior leadership, 
and the mages of Earth have begun adjusting to the reality of those changes. 
Some hotheads have responded by pointing fingers and laying blame, which has 
only increased the tension between Traditions. Other mages are searching 
desperately for some way of contacting the surviving Councilors. Many of those 
mages who remain have simply given up in disgust or despair, thinking that this 
is just one more sign that the Technocracy has finally triumphed after all. 
Many, but not all. 
A few dedicated souls still strive to keep the Council’s dream of unity alive. 
They work in ways large and small to foster fellowship and cooperation between 
the Traditions and to douse the divisive flames that threaten to consume what 
remains of the grand design. Theirs is perhaps the most difficult and least certain 
path of all those that lie before the Awakened, but those who follow it draw from 
a deep well of strength indeed. Sometimes it seems that they alone remember 
what the Traditions ultimately stand for: 
Hope. 
As individualistic as many mages are, it’s no surprise that different camps 
and cliques within each Tradition have long struggled to establish their own 
interpretation ofhow to uphold the Tradition’s goals. What’s more, the modern 
age of division and isolation has opened many of these old wounds once again 
and created more than a few new schisms. 
An Apprentice who follows one mentor may find himself snubbed by others 
of his Tradition, and he not have the slightest clue as to why until much later 
on in his training. Likewise, those who fail to espouse the “correct” doctrine may 
find themselves unable to gain access to Chantries, Nodes, mentors, libraries or 
other Tradition resources, depending on who controls these assets and how they 
feel about a character’s metaphysical viewpoint. Some Traditions are more 
lenient than others when it comes to tolerating members of other factions, but !, 
most mages have an opinion on the matter of factional alliance, even if they 
don’t choose to act on it. As some seasoned faction players say, choosing not to 
be on a team is really a team of its own, and no one gets to just sit on the sidelines. 
Storytelling disputes between factions is perhaps the ultimate exploration 
of delicate alliances, double entendres and the well-timed snub. Since outright 
battle is strictly frowned upon by all Traditions (although it does still happen 
FACTI~NS 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


occasionally), and harsh penalties follow those who shed the blood of fellow 
Tradition members, mages of differing factions must wage their wars subtly and 
kill each other with a thousand tiny cuts. Since most Tradition members appear 
to embrace the same philosophies on the surface, the slightest difference in 
metaphysical phrasing can carry immense political and social consequences. A 
rejected invitation can become a declaration of war, and a remark that was 
meant as merely a passing comment can earn a character powerful allies.. . or 
lasting enemies. Turn the paranoia factor up, make the characters feel they must 
look into the motives of their fellow Tradition members at every turn, and make 
all contact with others of their kind seem significant. 
CHANTNES 
Chantries serve as strongholds of magic, whether they are baroque hillside 
manors or the back of a beat-up station wagon, and control of these places of 
power IS one of the oldest conflicts in Awakened society. Even members of the 
Technocratic Union sometimes have to step in to break up fights between 
Conventions over a particularly powerful Node. 
Different Chantries in an area may do battle with each other over local 
magical and mundane resources, or even to determine who will get the first pick 
of particularly talented Awakened students. Sometimes members of a squatter 
Chantry - 
one without a Node -will 
even try to oust mages from an existing 
Chantry to gain control of its power reservoir. Battles of this sort are typically 
brutal and quick, and the winners take all. Within a Chantry itself, clique feuds 
erupt all too frequently as different groups argue over issues such as leadership 
of the Chantry and who will have access to specific Chantry features. Sometimes 
these cliques form along Tradition lines, sometimes they center around cabals, 
and sometimes they simply represent social or political groups. 
Chantry-versus-Chantry conflicts form some of the easiest stories to frame 
in Laws of Ascension. Unlike faction feuding, Chantry conflicts can easily flare 
up into exchanges of magical or mundane violence, and little quarter is typically 
i given on either side, especially when vital resources such as Nodes are at stake. 
These story types are fairly straightforward, and they can be the most powerful 
ii ones as well, depending on whether the players want a want to create a shadow 
war of double agents and secret meetings or a very real war that actually bums 
Quintessence and spills blood on the streets. It's usually just a question of how 
much the Storyteller wishes to emphasize politics or violence in the game. 
When building stories about rivalries within the Chantry, a Storyteller has a few 
: : immediateoptions. He canstress openand entrenched feuds, in whichdifferent cliques 
P don't hesitate toshowtheirdisdainforeachotheranddotheirbesttoaltematelyignore 
' and persecute members of other cliques. In this type of story, only dire issues such as 
I the defense of the Chantry itself can rouse any collective response. New mages are not 
certainly immune to being sucked into these conflicts, whether they like it or not. 
I, Characters in those situations must choose their allies carefully and be careful to not 
' appear too sympathetic to members of another clique, even by accident. 
Another option is to have a Chantry that appears to be unified, but is 
actually a simmering cauldron of rumors, love affairs, hidden dislikes and other 
explosive events, which those in charge just barely keep in check. Mages in this 
environment must swim these dark and tossing waters even as they keep up a 
. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


facade of friendliness to everyone, and they must remember that making friends, 
cutting deals or even just falling in love can have dire consequences. 
CABALS 
A mage’s cabal is often the only real family she has left. The people in her 
cabal are the only ones who understand her new life, face her problems with her, 
and who she can count on to back her up when she needs it most. Even if the cabal 
formedout ofamore pragmaticconcern-such asmutualprotectionor advancing 
some collective interest - 
and not due to any particular ties of friendship, the 
members of a cabal know that they can trust and depend on each other. 
Cabals used to be composed of members of one Tradition, but this trend 
broke down in the last century. Faced with the Avatar Storm and the end of the 
Ascension War, most modem mages are glad for any company they can find. Of 
course, even the tightest cabals can still fall victim to the same problems that 
groups of friends or associates do in everyday life. Jealousy, ambition, romantic 
fallout, petty feuds, buried grudges or even simple differences of opinion can all 
stir up divisive conflict within a particular cabal. 
Since they tend to form these groups on their own, the basic interactions of 
the players naturally generate many cabal-oriented plot lines, as different cabals 
come into conflict and members’ attitudes change over time. Those players or 
Storytellers looking for additional motivation or ways to approach stories about 
cabal conflicts should think about that original battleground of personal associa- 
tion: high school. Remember how the different cliques used to butt heads, often 
over the smallest and stupidest things?Think about how your own circle of friends 
always seems to have some crisis or another going on, be it a love triangle, two 
people who aren’t speaking to one another or some other interpersonal turmoil. 
Keep that social dynamic in mind and extrapolate from it the behaviors of 
cosmically enlightened folks with gigantic egos who are waging a largely one-sided 
and desperate battle against the ultimate symbol of authority. From that perspec- 
tive, it’s not hard to see how conflicts can arise between or within cabals. 
I 
RANK AND REPUTATI~N 
When the Council ofNine formed, one of the first initiatives that the Order 
of Hermes took on was to establish a standard system of ranks and titles, so that 
mages would have a universal means of recognizing magical accomplishment. 
Mages tend to be rather highly competitive by nature, so keeping up a strong 
public image is a point of both pride and necessity for many wizards. 
Reputation is the game measure of a mage’s standing among others of her 
kind, and it is measured in Traits. It usually stems from a proven level of magical 
accomplishment, although it can also be a function of holding some official 
position in the magical community, such as a Chantry head or faction leader. A t 
mage may also gain Reputation Traits by being influential in a city’s business I 
community, pulling off impressive magical feats, foiling the plots of rival groups 
1 1  
or by simply catching the right eyes at the right time. 
Anyone taken into a Tradition immediately receives the Trait: Accepted. , 
Those without this Trait cannot be subject to Tradition justice save for the most ; , 
serious crimes, but they also cannot expect aid, shelter or even civil treatment 
from proper Tradition mages either. Different Traits are bestowed at each rank, , 
as shown in the following chart. 
- 
h,qb 9’ 1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A character who has earned both the Apprentice and Initiate levels of a 
Sphere qualifies as an Initiate. She becomes a Disciple when she earns the first 
Disciple level in a Sphere, and she becomes an Adept when she earns the first 
Adept level in a Sphere, and so on. A character can earn each Reputation Trait 
only once, upon attaining that level of mastery of a Sphere for the first time. 
Therefore, if a character earns Promising for his advancement in the Life Sphere, 
A he will not earn it again if he demonstrates the same degree of mastery over the 
Prime Sphere. He has already proven that he possesses that level ofenlightenment. 
Troupes should feel free to invent ReputationTraits to suit their own stories 
and the deeds of the characters receiving the Traits. For example, a mage who 
turns back a terrifying Nephandi assault might earn a Trait like Fearless or Nobk. 
A Chantry leader might be considered Trustedor Revered by the local cabals, and 
a wizard who establishes a homeless shelter to give hope to the downtrodden 
might receive one such as Wise or Understanding. 
Here are some common uses of Reputation: 
Youmay add your ReputationTraits toyour SocialTraitsduring anapplicable 
Social Challenge. (Note: You may not do so in casting a magical Effect unless the 
Storyteller specifically approves of such usage in advance.) You must announce such 
ausage before resolving the challenge, however, since the target can choose to ignore 
your Reputation and force you to rely on your normal Social Traits. Since most 
Reputation Traits derive from accomplishments rather than social acclaim, such a 
snub is a serious insult in Awakened society. Even if he wins the challenge, the 
offending character can expect lasting enmity and possibly even some form of formal 
punishment. Someone who ignores the Reputation Traits a bully is using to 
intimidate him might get away without too much trouble, but amage who disregards 
Reputation is a measure of a character’s creditability, as well as the general 
I regard her opinion receives in magical circles. In any formal debate between two 
characters that pits one mage’s word against another, in which no clear resolution 
presents itself, Reputation is the tie-breaking factor. In all suchcases, the character 
with the most Reputation Traits is the one whose word is more likely to be 
accepted. However, those who get caught making false charges and relying on 
their Reputation Traits to save them lose face quickly and usually suffer other 
punishments as well. Reputation is also typically the deciding factor in detemin- 
* ing which plan of action a cabal or Chantry takes when multiple valid plans are 
on the table and there’s no other way to determine which one to pick. 
’ 
e 
: another’s Reputation for no good reason can expect some serious consequences. 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


One character may give Reputation Traits to another to show his favor, 
although the individual to which he gives the Reputation Trait must return it 
immediately upon the asking. This system is the basis for scenes in which lowly 
characters get by guards or gain audience with a powerful being because they’re 
acting on behalf of a more respected character. However, if the bearer loses this Trait 
in a challenge, it is gone for the duration of the story, so be careful about whom you 
support. You can use loaned Reputation Traits exactly as you would use your own, 
but you can give only one Trait of Reputation to any one person in this fashion. 
Anyone may remove Reputation Traits from characters of a lower rank than 
themselves at a cost of one Reputation Trait per Trait to be removed. Removing 
Reputation Traits also involves performing an appropriate smear campaign in 
character. Only mages of the same Tradition may remove a character’s Accepted 
Trait. Removing Reputation Traits is a costly but effective way of showing one’s 
disdain for a less experienced wizard and letting him know who really runs the show. 
Alternatively, a group of characters of lower rank can remove the 
Reputation Traits of someone higher up the ladder than them, provided that 
they all have more Reputation Traits between them than their target has. 
Accepted Traits do not count toward this total, unless all of the characters are of 
the same Tradition as their target. This system provides younger mages a way to 
fight back when more experienced wizards try to rule them through force of 
Reputation alone. They had best beware their own success, though. No mage is 
going to suffer in silence as a bunch of young upstarts give his image a black eye. 
Reputation Traits cannot be granted by any particular system of game 
mechanics. A mage must earn these Traits through great deeds, honorable conduct 
and exemplary actions in pursuit of their Tradition’s goals. Character input figures into 
the process as a measure of public opinion and approval, but only the Storyteller gives 
out Reputation Traits. Reputations are fragile things that are hard to build and all too 
easy to lose, so mages who play the status game had best be ready for a long and difficult 
road. Even still, the potential rewards are worth the effort for those who pursue them. 
Orphans, Hollow Ones and other Disparates begin with no Reputation 
Traits, and they cannot gain any from Tradition mages. On the flip side, they 
suffer no tangible consequences if they choose to ignore the Reputation Traits 
of a Tradition mage either. They might actually gain respect in the eyes of their 
fellows for a well-timed snub of this nature. Of course, they must still watch out 
for any revenge plans the slighted mage might be cooking up, because being 
shown up by a lowly Orphan really sticks in a Tradition mage’s craw. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, Hollowers and others like them may 
receive Reputation Traits in regard to their own kind, which function just like 
normal Reputation Traits in eveh way. However, they never apply to Tradition 
mages, just as Tradition Reputation Traits do not apply to them. The social 
~ 
games the Disparatesplay can be just as vicious as any Tradition politics, and this 
system adds another level to games with a substantial Orphan presence. 
, 
~ 
TRADITICBN 
TUSTICE 
Even though the Council has fallen, a system ofjustice still exists among the 
Traditions, and mages who violate that system’s laws can expect to be brought 
before some sort of formal tribunal eventually. Considering the magical and 
mundane resources a gathering of mages can bring to bear, it is usually not 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


terribly difficult to ascertain a subject’s guilt or innocence. Mind and Time rotes 
are common investigative measures, not mention highly effective ones, al- 
though all of the other Spheres and a host of mundane Abilities can play a part 
as well. Resisting the use of investigative rotes performed by a tribunal is usually 
considered an admission of guilt, unless the accused can prove that some foul 
play might occur during or as a result of their use. Suffice it to say, however, there 
are seldom many doubts as to the veracity of these verdicts, so most mages accept 
the punishments that are handed down, however sorrowful it may be to do so. 
When it comes to crimes themselves, each Tradition has its own particular 
notions of what counts as a crime, and they police their own on such subjective 
matters. (See the Tradition descriptions in Chapter Two for a general idea of 
what they do and do not find acceptable.) However, there are some crimes that 
all Traditions recognize, and they will go to great lengths to punish those who 
commit them. The type of punishment depends on the severity of the crime of 
which a mage is found guilty, and it can be anything from temporary ostracism 
to a permanent mark of shame to the destruction of an offender’s very Avatar. 
Certaimen 
Two mages who exhaust normal channels of resolving a dispute sometimes 
turn to certzimen, a wizard’s duel that pits the mages’ skill with their Spheres 
against each other. Certzimen is traditionally performed with at least one witness 
who acts as a judge, and it is almost always non-lethal. Indeed, it was invented as 
an alternative to the blood feuds that were too popular in darker times. To avoid 
Paradox, certamen is almost always performed in a Chantry, although Hollowers 
and others without many mystical resources occasionally practice so-called “gutter 
cert6men” in back alleys and smoky clubs. Within a proper certzimen circle, 
k however, mages have free rein to conjure all manner of Effects, since certzimen 
never incurs Paradox. The ultimate goal of a certamen is simple: You do not attack 
your opponent directly, you destroy his reservoir of Quintessence Traits. 
To this end, each mage uses his Spheres to form a gladius, an aegis, and a 
i locus. The gladius is the attacking Sphere that the mage uses to launch his 
assaults on his opponent’s Quintessence. The aegis is his defensive Sphere, and 
it governs how he must attempt to thwart his opponent’s strikes. The locus is the 
Sphere that represents the mage’s Quintessence Traits. A mage may switch 
which Sphere he is using for any one of those three purposes at any time, but 
doing so takes up his action for the turn. In addition, a given Sphere cannot be 
used for more than one of these purposes at a time. Finally, for each successful 
attack that slips past an opponent’s defenses, the attacker destroys one of his foe’s 
:: Quintessence Traits, and the first person to destroy all of his opponent’s 
Quintessence is the winner. As part of the certamen oath, the loser is expected 
to accept defeat graciously and live by it. 
Running certzimen is primarily a descriptive exercise, based on the Spheres 
eachmage is using. For example, an attacker using a Forces gladius may declare that 
she is manifesting it as a bolt of flame and lashing out at her foe, while her opponent 
(using Matter as his aegis) declares that he is conjuring a wall ofwater to douse her 
flames, and so on. Certzimen can be over in seconds or hours, but it is seldom dull 
to watch. Regardless of what dramatically descriptive forms they take, though, all 
strikes, blocks and dodges are resolved like normal magical tests and retests using 
, ‘ 
1 
. 
I ,” the Spheres involved. The order of challenges likewise proceeds normally. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Storytellers should emphasize the wits and ingenuity of the mages involved 
over strict systems as much as they can, however, and possibly even offer bonus 
Traits or other benefits to players whose attacks or defenses are particularly 
clever. Certhmen is supposed to be a battle of wits and magical prowess, not a 
showcase for brute force and Trait-stacking. 
Ostracism 
A form of collective shaming, ostracism is the typical punishment for those 
found guilty of spilling secrets unwittingly, disrespecting an elder mage, wasting 
Quintessence on unnecessary magic, harming or manipulating Sleepers for no 
good reason, feuding with a fellow cabal or Chantry member for petty reasons 
or other lapses of judgment that are not necessarily especially dangerous, but 
which still warrant asubs tantive punishment of some kind. Ostracized mages get 
the proverbial “silent treatment” from their fellows for a proscribed number of 
days or even weeks. During this period they are also denied further instruction 
by their mentors or access to libraries or other magical resources, in order to give 
themmore time to thinkabout their crime. They may also be required to perform 
menial tasks to teach them proper humility. While they will not be denied aid 
in an emergency, this otherwise total loss of personal contact often proves very 
effective at ensuring that the offender doesn’t repeat his mistake. This is the 
most common form of punishment in most Laws of Ascension games. 
Branding 
More serious crimes may get an offender branded, permanently marked by 
magic for all to see. Branded mages lose all Reputation Traits, they are 
removed from any leadership position they might have held, and they can be 
banished from the area. Some may even be declared Errants by their Tradition 
if the crime is serious enough. 
In addition, they are two Traits down on all Social Challenges with mages 
who know their status (which is usually obvious, either to mundane sight or Prim 
magic). Breaking solemn oaths, leaking secrets intentionally (as long as no deaths 
arose from them), attacking another mage without provocation, wantonly killing 
one abusing Sleepers, destroying a Wonder or committing other clearly inten- 
tional acts that represent a serious disregard for the lives and trust of other mages 
are all potentially worthy of branding. Brands cannot be removed without a great 
amount of effort, and word of the offender’s deeds usually travels quickly enough 
to make removal of the actual mark a moot point anyway. This punishment should 
be rather infrequent in most games, since it usually means that a character must 
depart the chronicle. When it is necessary, the Storyteller should ensure that it is 
enforced, or the attitude toward Tradition justice will quickly become too relaxed. 
Death 
Mages who commit depraved acts such as rape or kidnapping, who betray a 
Node or Chantry to enemy forces, who spy on and/ or betray fellow Tradition mages 
for any reason, or whose deliberate actions of any kind bring death or serious injury 
to other mages are usually sentenced to death. These kinds of crimes stain souls, 
spread needless misery and set back the efforts at Ascension that lie at the heart of , 
allTraditionactivities, and that simply cannot be tolerated. Even if themagedidnot ! , 
specifically intend to end someone’s life (say, he leaked secrets to someone who later 
utilized that knowledge to kill another mage), he may still be sentenced to death, 
since he knew that the original act was wrong and went ahead with it anyway. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The penalty of death is still not a common sentence, but most mages aren’t 
in the least bit squeamish about enforcing it when it’s called for. Many still 
consider themselves at war, after all, and one cannot afford to be undermined from 
within during a war. Obviously, both death and Gilgul should never be used lightly 
in a chronicle, since they put an end to a character once and for all. Storytellers 
should make sure that these punishments are not applied inappropriately. 
Gilgul 
Mages who commit the most irredeemably foul, vile, and unspeakable acts 
of murder, betrayal and corruption are sentenced to Gilgul- the destruction of 
the Avatar itself. This punishment prevents the mage from being reincarnated 
and destroys any magical talent the subject might have, so it is performed only 
when it is determined that there’s absolutely no chance to redeem a particular 
mage, in this lifetime or any other. Most of the time, such an immense 
pronouncement is reserved for the Nephandi, since their blasphemous ways 
leave an indelible taint on the souls they touch. Unfortunately, even untainted 
mages are capable of performing hideous acts without any outside help at all. 
Naturally, no mage will submit willingly to such a punishment, so offenders 
are usually restrained physically and magically before the sentence is carried out. 
Once the ritual is completed, the accused is either released (often after being 
mind-wiped as well) or executed, depending again on the overall severity of his 
crimes. Some criminals are deemed too dangerous to live, even after such a 
terrible punishment, while others are let free, to live out the rest of their lives 
as a broken shell. It’s anybody’s guess as to which fate is worse. 
THE 
S P I ~  
WCBRLDS 
A noted Master of the Spirit Sphere once said: “Taking the first step beyond is 
alwaysthehardest. After that, it’s justaquestionofwhere youwanttogo.”Indeed,new 
mages often wonder exactly how vast the cosmos must be after getting just a glimpse 
of the worlds that have opened up to them. Where do ow dreams come fim? 
They ask. 
Wheredotheygo? whathappensw~we~?Isthereanendouttheresomewhere, 
apoint 
which even we can’t go past? Where do aU these spirits come from, anyway? 
While the answers to those and countless other such questions encompass an 
incredible amount of information, mages have come up with a few quick ways to 
explain the various levels of reality. In actuality, the spirit worlds are not nearly so 
neatly divided or explored as these terms might suggest. The spirit worlds, also 
known as the Umbra, are forever in flux, which confounds even the best efforts to 
map them in the conventional sense. These terms still serve as a general reference 
so that different mages can understand each other and what the other is referring 
to. Take this advice and information to heart, but take it with agrainof salt as well. 
In games with a preponderance of spirits and Umbral travel, you may want to 
assign a Spirit Keeper. The role of Spirit Keeper is a special Narrator position 
designed specifically to track the Gauntlet ratings, maintain records of spirits, 
check out rules for rote Effects in the Umbra and so on. The Spirit Keeper 
essentially functions as a special Storyteller to handle all things spirit-related. 
Keep handy a folder of information about the local spirit world, important Umbral 
THE 
S P I ~  
KEPER 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Realms and some common spirits that mages might meet. The Spirit Keeper can 
run plots and resolve conflicts based on this information, thereby easing the 
Storyteller’s load and providing a deeper knowledge of the subject matter. 
~ A G I C  
IN THE U ~ B R A  
As a general rule of thumb, most magic isn’t vulgar in the Umbra because 
reality is more flexible there. Certain Effects are still always vulgar, however, no 
matter where you go. Some of those Effects include performing Gilgul, healing 
aggravated wounds or various permanent Effects such as body alteration or 
creating a Realm. The Storyteller is the final arbiter ofwhat is or isn’t vulgar in the 
Umbra. He and the Spirit Keeper should take care that players with access to the 
spirit world respect its hazards, rather than simply using it as a cheap way of casting 
powerful magic without repercussions. Note also that even if a mage casts a vulgar 
Effect in the Umbra to avoid the Paradox, sending it into the real world may still 
be Paradoxical. Doing so may also cause the Effect to erode due to Unbelief. 
It should also be noted that different levels of the Umbra have their own house 
rules as the mage travels farther from Earth. For example, Entropy Effects are never 
vulgar in the decaying Dark Umbra, but creating some form of pure, untainted 
matter would be incredibly vulgar there, since it goes against the Underworld’s 
paradigm. Mages should take care to mind their surroundings, especially when 
paying a house call on a particularly powerful or nasty spirit, lest they receive an 
unpleasant surprise from Paradox when they try to cast powerful magical Effects. If 
possible, the Storyteller and Spirit Keeper should decide what types of Effects are 
vulgar within a given Realm in advance so as to maintain consistency. 
THE TELLURIAN 
The Tellurian is what would be more conventionally known as the universe. 
Anything that can be dreamed of or described has the potential to exist, and it 
quite possibly does already exist somewhere in the Tellurian, even if we haven’t 
found it yet. Everything is part of the Tellurian in one way or another. 
THE TAPESTRY 
Despite what mages like to say, even they can’t conceive of the Tellurian in its 
purest state. There’s simply too much for even them to process effectively. Therefore, 
mages use the common metaphor of the Tapestry to represent reality. Every possibility 
or dream is a thread that is woven into the skein of reality. Mages have the talent to 
re-weave the threads as they desire, and thus to shape possibilities to their own ends. 
Of course, yanking on the threads of reality is dangerous. Too much stress on a 
particular thread will snap it, and an untrained mage might get tangled up in a snarl. 
That’s a cute way of explaining what happens when a mage suffers a Paradox Backlash, 
but it also serves to teach an important lesson. Care must be taken not to alter the :‘ 
Tapestry too much at once, or else.. . well, no one really knows, but it can’t be good. 
In fact, it might just end reality as we know it. Mages can’t simply pull out the heavy- 
duty Effects and slug it out with the Technocracy. Not only would Paradox eat 
everyone for lunch, but the damage to the Tapestry would most likely be irrevocable. 
The first obstacle any mage must overcome is the Gauntlet, the metaphysi- 
cal barrier that separates Earth from the spirit realms. In recent years, the 
Gauntlet has thickened as static reality cools and Sleepers reject the spiritual 
INT@ THE ST@Rm 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


can'torwon'tcross theGauntlet, due to thedebilitatingeffectsoftheA 
Storm. Second, unless the mage is truly skilled or foolhardy, he will 
e trip is always memorable, no matter what. I 
nting lightly on how the Umbra just looks like 
worlds, but it could still be crossed. Now, however, it exacts a painful toll from 
Spirit scholars point to aphenomenon known as the Avatar Storm as the source 
of this new problem, although they are currently at a loss at how the damage might 
be repaired. Supposedly, the Avatar Storm is mix of a tremendous maelstrom of souls 
~ 
in the Dark Umbra, and the aftermath of the recent destruction of an incredibly 
powerful being by the Technocracy. The resulting clash of forces created a backlash 
that at once thickened the Gauntlet and added a layer of Avatar shards on top of it, 
making travel and even communication across it a hazardous process for the unwary. 
As of the present, there's no telling when or if the Storm will subside, but given 
reality's current trend toward stasis, such a prospect seems unfortunately distant. 
Realms, and the magic unleashed here would have even more dire repercussions 
, 
on the Tapestry than they already do. 
.'# 
Aside from taking damage from the Avatar Storm, a mage must fight to 
[ - penetrate the Gauntlet itself. In places of magic and mystery, the Gauntlet is 
I 
often low. Powerful Nodes, mystic caves and the like have passages that lie 
: 
close to the spirit world. Conversely, the Gauntlet is usually high in 
a * Technocratically controlled areas like science labs and dense cities, in order 
I ,' to keep out wandering spirits and monsters. 
I - $ .  
I '  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Gauntlet typically has a rating from one to 10. Instead of challenging 
the Gauntlet directly, the mage creates a usual Spirit magic Effect, and the 
strength of the Gauntlet affects the ease of the spell. For each point that the 
Gauntlet is lower than five, the mage gains a one-Trait bonus on the test to 
breach the Gauntlet (from either side). For each point that the Gauntlet is 
above six, a mage suffers a one-Trait penalty instead. 
PENU~-I-IBRA 
Crossing the Gauntlet lands the mage in the Penumbra, the world that 
exists just beyond perception but always rings true in the heart. The Penumbra 
is a reflection of the Earth, so many of the same landmarks and other features are 
still there. However, while the mundane world shows how things appear, the 
Penumbra focuses emotional resonance and shows how things really are. A 
garbage dump on Earth appears as a seething heap of corruption in the 
Penumbra. A playground looks like a swirl of laughter and bright, playful colors. 
Deep woods become even more looming and mysterious. Likewise, a particularly 
sneaky person might take on slightly weasel- or snake-like features, while a pure 
soul glows with a faint inner light. 
Things with particularly strong emotional resonance sometimes even survive 
in the Penumbra beyond the destruction of their mundane form. For example, a 
house that served as a powerful site of dark magic might still sit brooding on the 
hillside beyond the Gauntlet, even though it's no more than a crumbling 
foundation in the normal world. Lastly, spirits of all kinds frequently pass through 
the Penumbra on their way to other destinations, so a polite and observant mage 
can gather much information if she knows where to look and whom to ask. 
Be warned, however, that the shapechangers are known to travel the 
Penumbra often as well, and they do not take kindly to outsiders. 
THE 
NEAR U ~ B R A  
Countless Realms wait one step beyond the Penumbra, if a mage is wise and 
brave enough to make the journey. A brief description of each of the most 
important areas follows. 
Mages filled with intellectual curiosity sometimes travel to the Astral 
Umbra, or the world of ideas. Like the Penumbra, it is a reflection of the world, 
but it emphasizes and amplifies rationality instead of emotion, drawing the 
abstract concepts and meanings out of things. Needless to say, many of the things 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


one might find here are highly symbolic, wrapped in layers of enigma and 
metaphors. Spiritual aspirants had best be ready to do some serious studying 
before they uncover the truths they seek. Theoretically, however, the answer to 
any question in the universe can be found here, so many mages attempt to 
journey here at one point or another. 
Decaying, disturbing and just generally depressing, the Dark Umbra is 
where the spirits of the dead wind up. It too is a reflection of the normal world, 
but it is an ashen, crumbling one, filled with rotting cities and infested with 
unhappy souls unable to move on to their ultimate reward. Mages who travel 
here had best be careful, for the Restless Dead envy the vitality of visitors, and 
they do their best to destroy it. 
Daydreams, fantasies and fears all come from somewhere as well, and mages 
usually call that place the Dream Lands. These lands are a reflection of Earth as 
well, but it is one seen through the twin lenses of whimsy and nightmare. 
Fantastic castles rise out of the suburban sprawl, unicorns saunter down city 
streets, and unspeakable monsters wait to ambush the unwary. This Realm is the 
home of the faeries, and they guard it jealously. Mages typically cannot enter the 
Dream Lands unless they are faerie kin, they are accompanied by one of the Fair 
Folk, or they are powerful and foolish enough to barge in without an invitation. 
Of course, not everything is a reflection of the mundane world. Sometimes 
reality collects in strange pocket Realms, or a powerful mage takes a portion of 
the Umbra and shapes it to her own particular desires. These places reflect the 
wishes of their creators, so the rules of reality are different there. 
THE ‘EDGE a= 
&ALITY 
THE 
HCBRIZCBN 
If the Near Umbra represents everything that can be imagined, the Horizon 
is the limit of that imagination and the cutting edge of reality. Mages have 
sculpted custom Realms out there, where their own visions of reality are 
dominant and their own magic is always coincidental. Horizon used to be the 
major battleground of the Ascension War, and Archmages threw tremendous 
amounts of magic at each other in a struggle for dominance. 
Since the Gauntlet strengthened, however, the Horizon has largely been 
cut off from Earth and robbed of much of its importance. Not only does this rift 
make communication with the old Masters difficult, it has also cut down on the 
Quintessence flow from Earth. That being the case, many Horizon Realms are 
starting to unravel since their owners are unable to supply the necessary energy 
At this rate, it may not be long before the Horizon comes crashing down, 
’ 
+ 
to keep them alive. 
3 
I and who knows what effects that might have.. .? 
~VERTHE ‘EDGE 
THE DEP UmBRA 
- 
It’s hard to say what lies beyond the limits of human imagination, because 
only the most powerful or insane mages have traveled there. Only Masters and 
Oracles have much of a chance of surviving out there, and even they have 
trouble dealing with some of the forces at work beyond the Horizon. At 
present, nobody can say with any certainty what might lie beyond. One might 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


find alternate Earths, a world of intelligent crystals, a universe ruled by giant 
badgers or even stranger things. 
It’s also entirely possible - 
as some mages have suggested - 
that what’s out 
there is something Man Was Not Meant to Know. With the Horizon crumbling 
and reality stagnating, however, this speculation may become more than an 
academic exercise all too soon. 
THE 
UITIBRA 
IN PLAY 
Having looked at the risks that even a simple crossing of the Gauntlet 
entails, many mages (and more than a few Storytellers) may ask themselves: 
Why bother? After all, the Ascension War is over and the real action’s here on 
earth, right? Well, yes and no. The following are some quick hints and potential 
story hooks for Storytellers who wish to incorporate the Umbra into their games: 
Curiosity: If mages were the stayat-home types, they’d still be Sleeping. 
Acquisition and use of the Spirit Sphere, discovery of a powerful gateway, the 
search for answers to a difficult problem or even just a need to know what lurks 
under the surface of reality can all spark Umbral stories. A great deal of 
information exists in the Umbra that can’t be gained anywhere else, not to 
mention an endless source of mysteries for interested players. 
Paradigm: Another obvious motivating factor for the use of the Umbra in 
play is that many mages’ paradigms incorporate some of it on aregular basis. Most 
Dreamspeakers communicate with spirits regularly, and they may travel to the 
homes of their ethereal cousins to beg aid, do battle or return favors. Hermetic 
wizards frequently invoke spirits in all kinds of rotes, and they may travel to the 
Otherworlds for tutelage or out of obligation. More than a few Hollow Ones 
begin their careers with a Ouija board, and they may be tempted by wraithly 
contacts into glimpsing the afterlife firsthand. (Not that this idea is a particu- 
larly good one, but most Hollowers have no idea of the real risks.) Don’t let one 
mage’s paradigm overshadow the rest of the game, though. Involving the Umbra 
in every story when only one or two mages are capable there gets boring fast. Use 
the Umbra as a rich, intriguing side-setting for those skilled in its ways. 
Diplomacy: Perhaps one or more of the mages are ambassadors to the local 
spirit courts. Some Celestial Chorus members take the “emissaries of Heaven” 
role seriously, after all, and many Euthanatos Chantries offer aid and recom- 
pense to the Restless Dead so as to avoid incurring their wrath during the course 
of their duties. A mage with faerie blood might be called upon to make amends 
for a unwitting slight against the Fair Folk, while a mage with shapechanger kin 
might seek to make peace between his cabal and the local werewolves. The mage 
might even be an envoy to or from Horizon, trying re-establish communication 
and guidance between the two worlds. 
Necessity: The Mother of All Plot Hooks, necessity can drag the characters 
into Umbral stories whether they’re ready or not. Just make sure that the players 
don’t feel like you’re jerking them around. Perhaps a Nephandus or Marauder 
arrives from beyond the Gauntlet and begins wrecking havoc, and the mages 
must follow their fleeing enemy to ensure that he’s been finished off. A love- 
struck faerie might steal away a character’s friend or lover, beginning a classic 
rescue tale. An Umbral breach might open up during a particularly vicious 
magical duel, sucking unlucky characters into the Otherworlds. The characters 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


might even be cornered by some powerful foe who leaves them with no choice 
but to flee into the Umbra and take their chances there. Countless other 
scenarios can achieve the same result, but the ultimate goal remains the same: 
The mages have no choice but to suck it up and deal with the Umbra - 
now! 
SPIrnS 
Spirits are puzzling entities that exist in the Umbra as manifestations of 
various principles, forces or ideas. Sometimes they seem almost human, while 
they elude any sort of coherent classification at others. All that mages can say 
with certainty is that many, many types of spirits are out there, and that they 
have a multitude of potential powers. Therefore, spirits can be potent allies if a 
mage is properly respectful. 
Spirits rarely appear in the material world - 
the Gauntlet makes doing so 
very difficult. However, they do find mages (and other living creatures that can 
interact with them) extremely interesting. As such, any mage who travels into 
the Umbra is likely to run into a spirit at some point. 
SPIRIT 
CREATICBN 
While some mages try to classify spirits, it’s difficult to pigeonhole them all. 
Spirits seem to have their own hierarchy, although not all spirits fit into it. 
In game terms, a spirit may rank anywhere from a minor entity to a godlike 
being, and it’s up to the Spirit Keeper to assign it powers and traits as appropriate. 
A minor spirit may be little better than an animal with three or four Traits in 
each Attribute category, a Trait of Quintessence and one Initiate-level power. 
A divine entity, on the other hand, may have 20 or more Traits in each 
Attribute, a similar amount of Quintessence and a full range of Disciple-, Adept- 
and Master-level powers. The spirit’s exact powers and capabilities depend upon 
the needs of the story, though. There’s no formula to catch all spirits, and a mage 
can’t simply look at a spirit and say, “Oh, that spirit has only two powers and six 
points of Quintessence.” Spirits are mysterious entities and potential adversaries 
or allies, not collections of numbers. 
SPIRIT 
TRAITS 
Spirits don’t have normal Traits, unless they create or possess a material body. 
A spirit uses its Rage (instead of Physical Traits) to attack, its Gnosis instead of 
Mental or Social Traits, and its Charms toperform magical (Paradox-free) effects. 
A spirit also typically has a pool of Power to enhance its Charms and fuel its 
existence. Such Power is inherent to the spirit, and it cannot be stolen from it. 
Spirits often have a few Abilities, and they may even have some Negative 
Traits, as appropriate to their purpose. 
SAl-I-IPLE SPIrnS 
The two sample spirits here simply provide some ideas on what spirits might 
be able to do in your games. 
~
I
N
~
R
 
SPIRIT 
w FIN 
The minor spirit of fire appears as a small, flickering flame in various 
shades of red, yellow, orange and blue. It has only limited awareness, since it 
exists simply to burn. While it’s too small to be very threatening to most 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


creatures, it can set objects alight in the Umbra (or in the physical world if 
someone brings it across the Gauntlet with Spirit magic), and it can act as a sort 
of guiding light for a mage in the Penumbra. 
Power: 5 
Charms: Airt Sense: The spirit of fire can sense Umbral pathways, and it can 
Rage: 3 
Gnosis: 2 
Abilities: Brawl, Cosmology, Dodge 
Typical of the ranks of lesser demons, the demon of war is a spirit hungry 
for violence and conflict. It likes to sow dissent among groups, and it draws 
strength from sparking great carnage and battle when it gets the chance. 
navigate easily through most parts of the Penumbra. 
D E ~ B N  
w WAR 
Power: 15 
Charms: Airt Sense: The demon of war can sense Umbral pathways and 
navigate easily through most parts of the Penumbra. Materialize: The demon of 
war can test its Gnosis against the Gauntlet in order to appear in the physical 
world. Doing so costs it a point of Power for each hour it remains, so it usually 
materializes only when someone offers it a sacrifice to help it stay. 
Rage: 10 
Gnosis: 7 
Abilities: Brawl x3, Intimidation x3, Melee x3 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. .'- 
The craft of Storytelling can be difficult, time-consuming and frustrating. 
Arbitrating a game and fashioning a memorable tale takes a lot of work. 
However, it's also a job with great rewards. The enjoyment of a superlative story, 
the satisfaction of a fantasy made manifest and the gratitude of the many players 
who participate make all the effort worthwhile. If you're willing to take on the 
burdens of storytelling, read on and learn from the advice and help compiled 
here. Laws of Ascension especially requires a great deal of set-up work, so read 
through all of this chapter and prepare appropriately. 
The first watchword for a Laws of Ascension Storyteller is preparation. A lot 
can go awry in the course of a reality-bending, Realm-hopping story, and it's the 
Storyteller's job to head off problems and keep the game moving. With that in 
mind, be sure to not only heed the advice of this chapter, but also to take a few notes 
on how these Storytelling elements can apply to your games specifically. 
Before we get into the nitty-gritty of making stories, though, let's get one 
thing out of the way: 
The purpose of the game is to have fun. 
Youremember that rule from waaay back in the beginning, right? Ifpeople aren't 
having fun, something's wrong. If a rule impedes your game, it needs to change or 
disappear. TheStoryteller'sultimateresponsibilityistoensurethateveryonehasagood 
time, so you must learn to throw out or change anything that gets in the way. You may 
find yourself tweakiig rules, bending character concepts and tossing out story ideas to 
doso-nothingissacredwhenit comesdown towhetherornot thegame isenjoyable. 
If arule makes the game less fun, change it. It doesn't matter that the Master 
level of the Sphere of Cheese allows one player to win the game and ruin 
everything for everyone else. That player needs to fit the game's overall needs. 
If a character concept skews the game, it's time to change it. Your player may 
want to play a combat munchkin who revels in the bloodshed of other players' 
characters, but when that character causes hard feelings or starts killing off too 
many characters for people to have fun, it's time to remove the character from 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


that role or from the game. If your players don’t enjoy your story line, toss it. 
While the Storyteller does have the power to ram a given story down the players’ 
throats, there’s little point in doing so if everyone hates it in the first place. 
Always keep this mantra in mind when you craft stories. You’ll save yourself 
and your players a lot of grief when you approach your craft with the goal of 
making things fun foremost in your mind. 
THE 
PNCE w F
~
E
 
Building stories doesn’t come cheaply. Sometimes the muse just refuses to 
strike. Other times, the demands of participants fray your nerves. Storytelling 
isn’t a job for the faint of heart. It takes up a lot of time and effort. When you’re 
running an entire chronicle, you don’t just do so during the actual games. 
InLaws of Ascension, you must be especially prepared to deal with constant 
demands. During play, you are responsible for arbitrating disputes, updating 
records, making rules and judgment calls on the fly, assigning Narrators, approving 
character concepts, introducing or advancing plots and ensuring that everyone 
has fun. The Storyteller rarely has time to indulge personally in the game. The 
Storyteller’s role is that of an overseer more than a direct participant. 
The Storyteller’s job doesn’t end once he is out of play, though. A Storyteller 
needs to set up locations for play, arrange to take them down, update character records, 
deal with problems that came up during play, approve new rules, brainstorm plots and 
keep a finger on the pulse of the game to find out what’s going well and what could go 
wrong. These duties can and often do intrude on your free time. You’ll find players 
asking questions about the game while they’re visiting, and ideas for the game will 
suddenly pop into your head in the middle of work or other activities. You’ll find it best 
to set aside a little time between games, because the Storytelling duties will inevitably 
demandattentionandyou’llneedtousethattimeifyouwantthegames 
togosmoothly. 
Storytelling is not all bad, but it certainly requires a lot of work, and it can get out 
ofhand. When your players keep trying to bring bizarre ideas f0r“winning” to the table, 
when your Narrators can’t agree and mive at loggerheads over a ruling and when the 
computation of longrunning between-game material or plots takes up a few more 
hours than you’ve planned, you’ll realize just how much a Storyteller is responsible for. 
Given some time and experience, you’ll find the balance of storytelling duties 
that suits you. Figure out how much effort you need to set up your game and take pains 
to keep those responsibilities organized, and you can minimize the impact of the 
inevitable random events that crop up and try to throw your plans into disarray. 
Once you hit this groove, you’ll find out why storytelling is so rewarding. You’re 
literally responsible for an entire imaginary world, and all of your players will come 
to rely on you to define it. Only the Storyteller watches with omniscience as plots 
unfold and take shape. You have the opportunity to not only guide the direction of 
the tale, but to see every part of the grandiose tapestry that you weave. When all is 
said and done, you get to relish the enjoyment of every other participant. 
, - 
TWLS w THE TRAI~E 
A prepared Storyteller keeps his duties as organized as possible. The more 
prepared you are ahead of time, the less likely you are to be laid low by some 
unexpected calamity. As a recommendation, you’ll probably want to prepare the 
following items ahead of time: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A complete folder of players’ characters. The players will inevitably need 
copies of their character records, and you’ll want to be able to reference them 
between games. If you don’t have them stored on a computer file, keep your own 
folder of photocopies in addition to the sheets the players use during the game. 
A notebook of plots. Keep notes on who’s doing what to whom, what 
groups and cabals are active in what areas and where you see the story going. Jot 
down potential ideas so that you can move a plot in whatever direction seems 
most entertaining instead of railroading the story. Plus, if you’re suddenly struck 
with inspiration, you can write down a new idea here and refer Narrators to it 
(or give them copies) so that they know what you’re thinking. 
Item cards. Keep a small box full of index cards with item names and stats on 
them, listed one item (knife) or group of similar items (handful of coins) to a card. 
Jot down a quick description of what the item looks like, what Traits it has and what 
game effects it produces, then sign the card. That way, those who want to use an item 
need the appropriate card. And since the card has your signature (or some other 
distinctive mark), it won’t be as easy to forge. If you really want to go all the way, you 
can print up the cards on a computer, then laminate them so that they’ll be tough 
and reusable instead of getting crumpled up in someone’s pocket. 
Nametags. Although you don’t need nametags for every player, you will 
probably want to pass out nametags to differentiate Narrators and to indicate certain 
possessions that acharacter is carrying or wearing. For instance, if someone’s wearing 
body armor, then not only do you want the player to have an item card for it, you 
want the player to wear that card somewhere easily visible. A nametag holder makes 
a perfect place to hold an item card of this sort. The same is true if, say, a person has 
a strange physical feature or he is under a visible magical Effect. 
Effect cards. Instead of stopping the game to look up how each rote works, 
give the players cards that describe their rotes. Making up all the Effect cards in 
advance is time-consuming, but it saves you effort later during the game, since 
you can just ask a player to pull out the card for his rote when he casts an Effect. 
Plus, you know that if a player doesn’t have a given card for an Effect he wants 
to create, then he’s fast-casting a rote he doesn’t know, or he’s out of luck. 
Paradox cards. Depending upon how you decide to handle Paradox, you may 
or may not use Paradox cards. If you do, make them up ahead of time so that you don’t 
have to try to approve Paradox effects in the middle of play. Plus, these cards help 
you assign appropriate Paradox effects fairly. You can pass the cards out randomly to 
the players (as per the Paradox card system in Chapter Four), or you can just have 
a Paradox Judge deal with them specifically (as described later in this chapter). 
Event synopsis sheet. After each game event, you will want to make up 
f a little note sheet of what happened, what’s important to know and what’s going 
I on. You will especially want to do so in games with a mobile venue. That is, if 
your game is supposedly taking place in Paris, France while you’re really in 
t 
Ponca, Nebraska, you’ll want to make anote of that fact on your event sheet. You 
I cannote rule updates or changes and big public events on the sheet, so that each 
1 : - player can pick up a copy at the start of play and know immediately the sorts of 
I 
A venue style sheet. Most players agree that everyone should follow a 
.: coherent set of pre-arranged rules, so why should the story be any different? 
Essentially, a venue style sheet describes the basic premise of the game and 
a 
things that his character would reasonably be aware of. 
’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


covers its preferred themes and story types. By consulting this sheet, new players 
and old alike can keep what the game’s trying to accomplish in mind. If someone 
starts to behave in a way that detracts from the game, you can point out on the 
venue style sheet that such behavior isn’t what you’re trying to accomplish. 
For instance, if you really want a political game with limited physical 
combat, you can make anote to that effect on the venue style sheet. Then when 
someone makes a combat-oriented character, you just point out that that type 
of character is not in keeping with the style of game that you’re trying to play. 
The venue style sheet covers important bits of setting and background for the 
game, as well as any pertinent rules modifications. In effect, you hand out this 
couple of pages to every player so that they know exactly how your game works. 
BUILDING 
STWUES 
So you have your notebook and your pen and your copy of Laws of Ascension. 
All ready to play? Not quite. Great stories rarely pop fully formed out of thin air. 
Making up a story requires you to simmer some thoughts and mix some ideas, then 
bake them with a bit of effort and hope for the best. It’s a rather haphazard process, 
but dealing with the unforeseen elements that emerge is part of the fun. 
Every Storyteller has his own style of running a game, so you’ll need to find 
out how you’re most comfortable. Some Storytellers rush from place to place and 
handle every arbitration, giving the players constant input. Others like to step 
back and watch the game flow on its own, while players guide most of the action 
themselves. No one style is more or less valid than any other. As long as you come 
to the table offering the players a chance to experience something entertaining, 
people will run with your ideas and have a good time. 
LIVPACTIBN 
VEBUS TABLETBP 
STBRYTELLING 
Experienced tabletop Storytellers take heed - 
running a live-action game 
isn’t just an extension of the tabletop game. Although certain thematic elements 
remain similar, such as the need for plots and Storyteller moderation, the scales 
are totally different. A Storyteller for a live-action game undertakes a large-scale 
effort to fulfill many players’ expectations, instead of running events around a 
single table. The difference in scale has some important consequences: 
In live-action games, you don’t have unlimited oversight. At a tabletop game, 
you get to see everything that happens and you know what every player’s character is 
doing. In live-action games, players’ characters may wander around and plot secretly, 
and you won’t be involved. As a result, you’ll have to make judgment calls based on 
incomplete or inaccurate information sometimes. Perhaps a player is cheating, but you 
can’t verify it because you weren’t there, or maybe some characters traded dormation 
while you weren’t present and the final tally of who knows what will surprise you. You 
can usually take these matters on trust, but it’s often best to err on the side of caution. 
You may not have the luxury of interacting personally with everyone. A 
tabletop game allows everyone to sit down as friends and build characters that 
are designed to work together (or at least not to kill each other right off the bat). 
In a live-action game with dozens or hundreds of players, you may have players 
you know only vaguely, players who don’t get along and characters who are 
designed to arrive at loggerheads. 
Expect a level of player friction at some point, because it happens when you 
get so many personalities together at once. When it does happen, you must put 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


up the appearance of being fair and even-handed so that nobody feels like 
someone else is treated preferentially, and you must be a diplomat and discipli- 
narian in addition to all of your other roles. You must exercise the fact that your 
authority is absolute for your game. You have the right to eject a problem player 
and make calls based on personal judgment because you’re trying to build a game 
fairly for everyone to have fun, not a story centered around one hero. 
Speaking of centric games, the characters find themselves in the middle 
of events in tabletop play, and they face down the Storyteller’s antagonists. In 
live-action games, the enemies may often be other players’ characters, and no 
player’s character is guaranteed a plot’s spotlight. Inevitably, you’ll have to 
soothe hard feelings between players who come into conflict, and you’ll need to 
keep an eye out for the unfortunates who become bored or get run roughshod 
over by more talkative or aggressive players. If you’re fortunate, you’ll recruit 
some players to be Narrators and play the main antagonists. For some players, 
though there’s no satisfaction like beating down another player’s character or 
solving a juicy plot in order to reap the rewards themselves. 
A subtler level of problem lies in character balance. For a tabletop group of a 
half-dozen people, you can usually introduce new characters with a minimum of fuss 
and tweak their starting power levels to fit them into the game. In a large, long-running 
live-action game, you’ll have some powerful characters and some who have just been 
created, and you’ll want to make sure that everyone starts off on an even keel. 
Unfortunately, you’ll run into situations where old-characters dominate 
the game and new players feel that they can’t participate or accomplish anything 
meaningful. A couple of solutions to this problem exist, althoughnone are really 
easy to swallow. First, you can slow long-term characters’ rate of advancement. 
! If, for instance, you charge an extra Experience Trait for every advancement the 
player makes after his character has earned his first 25 or 50 Traits, you’ll subtly 
slow older characters’ improvement. You can stack this modifier if necessary to 
slow down really old characters even more, and to prevent your group from 
having one multi-Sphere Master running around blasting everything. 
Second, you can “cap out” or retire old and powerful characters. You do so 
by halting character advancement at 100 Experience Traits or requiring char- 
acters to go out of play when they reach this level of experience. This 
requirement leaves a sour taste in many players’ mouths, though, because it 
undercuts their sense of accomplishment. 
Third, you can intervene with the game’s natural flow in order to promote 
overall fun. You can go to the powerful characters’ players beforehand and say, 
“Hey, guys, I’d like you to keep your hands off this one plot. It’s for the new people.” 
: Give them something big to face down with all their Traits while leaving the new 
characters a few minor ordeals that would be a snap for the old-timers. 
, 
Ke ST~RY 
INGREDIENTS 
I 
Now that you know a few things to watch out for, you’re ready to drop 
together some ingredients and mix your own story. When you put some 
ingredients into play, players will take them and make their own little creations, 
adding to the overall experience. Try a few different mixes. Very few story ideas 
’ 
are exclusive. You can have many story elements or few, and you can mix and 
t ’ match to your heart’s content. 
I * €  , I  
1 = 1 .  
I *  
I 
8 robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


T H E ~ E  
The theme is the organizing principle of your story. It’s the unifyingone- or two- 
word description ofwhat your story is about on its most basic level. It is the question 
that your story answers as it plays out, and it’s the means by which you convey the 
tale’s ideas and messages. You’ll need a theme if you want to create a story with a 
coherent direction and recognizable elements instead of just a mish-mash of ideas. 
The theme is the foundation of all the other parts of the story, and it influences 
the plot, mood and setting. Each choice you make in building your story helps 
accentuate your hidden theme, and the theme becomes clear through the explora- 
tionofcommonelements ineachpartofthe story. The theme isnot terribly complex 
in and of itself, though. Rather, it’s a basic element that guides your thought on plots 
and places that can be tied together to share one deeper meaning. 
Your Laws of Ascension games may use any combination of the following themes: 
Change - 
Is change inevitable, or do some things remain eternal? How do 
people adapt to uncontrolled or unwanted change? Is it better to enforce change 
from without or to let it spring from within? 
Enlightenment - 
What steps and paths lead to true enlightenment? What 
is enlightenment, anyway? Is enlightenment exclusive of material effort, or does 
it acknowledge worldliness? Is it even a worthwhile goal at all? 
Hope - 
Does hope even exist in the World of Darkness? Who and what can 
bring hope? Is hope itself just a sham designed to lead on the gullible, or can there 
really be something better? What hopes and dreams most drive humanity to excel? 
Morality - 
Who or what determines morality? Who are the keepers of 
morals and ethics? Are these social constructs even necessary? What morals (if 
any) transcend individuals, cities, nations, worlds? 
Order -Do 
people function better in an orderly fashion, or do the 
constraints of order take away too much? Is there an order to the universe at all? 
Who are the keepers of order, and who decides what’s conducive to order? 
Exploration-What 
frontiers remain today? Are there limits and places to which 
people shouldn’t go? How far will people go in search of something new, different or 
better? Does exploration of the external have less merit than internal exploration? Is 
it better to explore old ways in a new context or to explore new ways entirely? 
Hubris - 
Do mages go too far when they bend reality? Are there really 
things that humans shouldn’t do?Railing against the gods (and Paradox) is risky, 
but is it too much? Even so, how much should humans be content with? Is there 
no choice but to reach for the heavens? 
I 
~ 
lTIW3D 
Your story’s mood carries emotional undertones. When your players step 
into the game, they should feel that mood through the props, settings and events 
that you choose. Just like a movie that spawns powerful emotions, your story’s 
mood causes the players to feel specific things. Again, mood is a subtle, hidden 
element that’s best described through the game’s events instead of spoken aloud. 
Let the mood shine through in the feelings the story evokes. 
A story’s mood may change with the pace of the tale or remain fairly 
1 
constant. Typically, it’s a short description of emotion. Your story might be ’ 1;‘ 
despairing and sad, or feverish and furious. Moods aren’t always mutually 
exclusive, but some moods do contrast. Often, it’s best to focus on one or two 
I 6’;; 
.Il‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


moods at a time, just to keep them strong. Too many swings of emotion cause 
the mood to become diluted. 
Some moods you can play with include, but are not limited to: 
Sadness - 
Perhaps your game focuses on loss, dashed hope or ennui. The 
characters face the depths of despair, in how much magic has left the world and 
in the inevitable trials of humanity. 
Active -The chronicle is frenetic. Things are always happening, the world 
is moving forward, and characters must be fast on their feet to keep up. Everyone 
feels like there’s no time to take a breath, and matters careen forward constantly. 
This type of game can be exciting or terrifying, but it’s always in motion. 
Mystery- With the many trials that mages face, especially given the dearth 
of good teachers and old Masters, many become confused by the diversity of the 
mystical world. The characters don’t know what to expect. Puzzling spirits and 
insoluble natural phenomena face them. The characters may be certain of their 
owncapabilities, but the world itselfseems too grand to comprehend in its entirety. 
Anger - In an angry world, everyone’s pissed off at something. The 
Traditions are mad at the Technocracy for quashing magic. The Technocrats are 
mad at the Traditions for slowing progress. The masses are mad at everyone for 
jerking them around and giving them a mediocre world. Tempers flare easily, 
and everyone has a grudge. Violence seems right around the corner, and tragedy 
results when tempers erupt. The setting is bright and splashed with red and 
yellow reminders of the fire lurking just beneath. 
Passion - 
Mages believe so strongly about things that they literally change 
the world with those beliefs. Everyone holds something dear, be it a loved one, 
a philosophy or a treasured heritage. Play up the conflict of passions. Reason falls 
by the wayside as people follow their hearts. Settings seem romantic or brooding, 
designed to evoke deep emotions. 
PLW 
While the theme and mood provide underlying foundation for a story, the 
plot is really the story itself. It’s the thread of material and imagination that 
unravels to reveal a long tale. Your plots encompass who’s doing what, where the 
important stuff resides and what’s going to happen come hell or high water. In 
short, it’s the record of events that come together to tell a coherent story. 
Your game needs a couple of g o d  plots to hold it together. On one hand, you 
want to tell an engrossing story and give the characters a chance to grow over months 
of time, unfolding all their richness of their lives slowly. On the other hand, some 
things happen so suddenly and twist lives around so profoundly that they can’t last 
more than an instant. Both are valid and necessary angles of plot. For players who 
like to puzzle out problems and toy with recurring villains, elements and problems, 
longrunningplotsfit the bill. Otherplayersfind long-termplotsconfusingorboring. 
For them you interject the occasional short-term plot that’s designed to keep things 
moving and to show that sometimes the world upends in fast and strange ways. 
You can dig up plot ideas just about anywhere. Whatever causes conflict or 
curiosity is ripe for use in a plot. Take a quaint or interesting story from a novel, a 
movie, a television show, even a bit of history or current events. Put your own spin 
on it and stir it up with a couple of other elements from dissimilar plots. File off the 
serial numbers, plop the characters in as the protagonists (or antagonists), and run. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Remember that you can leave elements of plots dangling as well. You 
needn’t specify the outcome of every plot angle exactly. Indeed, you might want 
to see which direction the players head with something and then decide on the 
fly how you want to resolve the plot. Like a murder mystery, there might be many 
possible solutions, only one of which becomes apparent in the end. 
Somesimple ideasforplots (fromwhich youcanspringoffyourownstories) include: 
The Search for Knowledge - 
Young up-and-coming mages need to hone 
their skills and master the Spheres if they’re to survive and make a change in the 
world. Therefore, a traveler or recently discovered book or artifact offers the 
promise of knowledge, if only the mages will solve some problem or travel to some 
place. The mages must exercise their current knowledge in order to reach the next 
pinnacle and eventually acquire access to some tutor that imparts new knowledge. 
TheMeetingofMinds-Severalmagescome together to trade wisdomandmake 
diplomatic overtures. Perhaps a few have access to aNode, and they want to trade that 
power for use of the library another group holds. Maybe some mages need to end 
hostilities, or resolve a conflict over influence on some part of the city. Perhaps the 
mages need to bring new apprentices up to speed and establish a united front against 
opposition. Regardless, it’s a job for wits, social skills and political maneuvering. 
Ascension War - 
Although most mages recognize that opening the entire 
world to magic all at once is probably futile, wars over ideology remain. Some 
Technocrats continue to hunt mages, while some mages believe that the 
Sleepers can be freed to make their own destiny only if the Technocrats are 
overthrown. Marauders follow their own twisted agendas, and they often come 
into conflict with other mages. And everyone hates the Nephandi. But who’ll 
win? The characters must marshal resources and find allies if they’re to survive, 
especially if it’s an unwanted conflict thrust upon them. 
Lost and Bygone - 
Some strange phenomenon or creature appears in the 
city. Although it’s elusive, it holds the promise of some magical power. Perhaps 
it must draw its energy from somewhere, or it’s a sign that an important magical 
event has occurred. The characters try to track it down and figure out why it 
appeared, how it came to be and perhaps how to turn it to their advantage. 
; - 
SETTING 
When you’ve figured out your plot, theme and the like, you can decide on a 
setting. Your setting is just the backdrop, the locale in which everything happens. 
Often this locale will be pretty mundane. Your local coffee shop or nightclub will do, 
for instance. However, youcango wild if youhave private access to anarea. Maybeyour ‘ 
players are subtle enough to actually play the game in a mall during the day, although 
we don’t recommend trying it. The local constabulary tends to get nervous when you 
do “magic” in public. More likely, you have access to a friend’s house or a rented 
building. You can use the setting to showcase the exact elements that you want. 
you may decide that you want your game (held in a friend’s basement) to actually 
take place in a great Chantry. Decorate the site with some simple plastic statues 
or books that help to give an ambience of wisdom. Look back at your moods and 
themes too. For a fastepaced, violent and hectic game, you’ll want to decorate 
5 !h 
with bright colors and things like statues of gladiators or paintings from wars. A :: 
more subdued and romantic game calls for soft, warm coloration, dim lighting 
: 
c 
Toss in materials that’ll helpget across the feel for your setting. For instance, f 
h 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


and more simple cloths and drapes. The setting itself influences how your players 
feel, which in turn helps you provide a given theme and mood. 
Remember that your setting isn’t just limited to our modem world and time. 
Although many mages recognize the importance of the here-and-now , of having 
to make a difference on Earth and fighting to survive in day-to-day living, quite 
a few mages also jaunt off to strange hidden lands or even spirit worlds. Perhaps 
your game takes place in a realm of fantasy or a spaceship crewed by Sons of 
Ether. You can also experiment with different periods of history. You might try 
playing mages who work with the Cult of Mercury in old Rome (see Dead Magic) 
or Renaissance mages in the ages of discovery and exploration. 
PACING 
Once a plot comes crashing to a premature conclusion or a group of players 
manages to sit on a story arc for an entire night and reduce it to boredom, you’ll 
recognize the value of pacing. On the Storyteller end, your pacing needs to be 
ultimately flexible. There’s no way around it. Sometimes players surprise you 
with an incredible plan that solves your month-long story arc, and sometimes 
they just miss all the hooks. 
Pacing often bows to mood and theme. If you’re running a very action- 
oriented game, you will want to pace things quickly. Characters appear, do 
things and disappear. Events flash-fry, and players must react quickly. In a more 
sedate game, you might leave events dangling for a little while. Give players the 
chance to grab on to something if it interests them, even if it takes a little while 
to notice. Don’t force it, though. If your plot hangs out to dry for three months 
and nobody cares, it may be time to move on. 
Another important part of pacing is judging your players. For instance, you might 
have a plot that starts up only when some people use a specific set of investigative skills 
or magics on a game element. If your players are more bang-up types, they may not try 
the cerebral approach immediately. You’ll need to pace appropriately, leaving enough 
cluesfor them to follow. Ifyouhavevery cautious players, you’llhave tobecarefulabout 
pushingthem intoaction, lest they find themselves overwhelmed. Remember, the idea 
t isn’t to have plots that totally stump the players or run them over. It’s to introduce story 
elements that the players can have fun with. 
The real key to mastering pacing is to become adaptable on the fly. In the 
middle of a game, some player will inevitably pull off some magical Effect you 
didn’t foresee. The answer is not to shoot it down or panic, but to adapt to the 
situation. Check your cribbed notes on plot (You did write down plot notes, 
right?) and see where you’re planning to go, then make a ruling on the spot. Be 
, prepared to throw out an angle that isn’t working, and realize that sometimes the 
^*’ players will do things out of order like confronting the adversaries before 
I acquiring the Really Big Guns. Be prepared to spin things. In the aforemen- 
tioned case, you might want to fiddle with the adversaries’ Traits, depending on 
whether you want them to be defeated or just to trounce the players a little. 
If you find your game lagging, try to pick up the pace. Having players who have 
too much to do is usually better than having nothing to do. People come to the game 
to do something, after all. If matters lag, consider tossing in another character, aclue, 
. a new element or anything to keep things moving. You’ll have to work to keep up, 
of course, but you didn’t think Storytelling was entirely easy, did you? 
’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


STCBRY 
CCBNSIIXRATICBNS 
Your story considerations simply offer possible boundaries to the story itself. 
You can’t encompass everything, so you need to have some limits. The story 
considerations basically determine how much wiggle room you’ll give. 
SCALE 
A game might just be a half-dozen friends in one rmm for an evening, or 200 
conventioneersrunningaroundahotelforthreedaysandnights.Yourgame’sscalecan 
and will change as players come and go, settings expand and your plots demand new 
directions. That’s okay. Your only real limit is how much you can logistically handle. 
You can influence your game’s scale actively by doing things like recruiting 
new players or putting a cap on the number of players you allow in the game. If 
you don’t want more than, say, 20 players, just stop accepting new characters at 
that point. Similarly, if you feel that the game hasn’t hit critical mass, send your 
players out to find friends and relatives who want to join in. 
Scale is important primarily to two things: how much you can handle, and 
how much your plot can bear. As a Storyteller, you have to arbitrate a load of work 
already. If you have too many players, your game becomes unmanageable. You’ll 
want to recruit Narrators from your player base. A good ratio is one Narrator for 
every five to 10 players. You might even require that every player spend some time 
as a Narrator every few games, just to make sure that you have enough Narrators 
and antagonist characters. On the plot side, your stories may suffer if too many 
people become involved. Thirty-eight destructive mages converging on one foe 
can wreck that angle, while too few mages might not have the skills to muster to 
solve a specific plot. Your plots should to some degree be driven by scale, to make 
sure that you have stories that everyone has a chance to participate in. If you have 
more people, you’ll want to have more Narrators and more plots, naturally. 
Remember also that it’s generally a bad idea to hang all of a plot on one hook. 
Regardless of the size of your game, you should have multiple threads ofresolution. 
If you rely on one specific individual to resolve a plot, you may find yourself out 
of luck if the player doesn’t show up or the character disappears. Your scale dictates 
the flexibility of response your plots require. The more players involved, the more 
you’ll want to leave options for yourselfso that aplot can be handled in many ways. 
While scale relates to the actual size of the physical game, scope is a bit more 
intangible. The scope covers how far the characters can stray. It is essentially, 
the illusion of free will that you give the players. 
The players and characters always act under some constraints. Whether he’s ; 
limited by game rules or the particular plots in motion, a character can do only so 
much. However, your decisions of scope can have agreat effect on what a character ‘ - 
can do with. Will you allow characters to travel anywhere in the world, or do you 
decide to limit such travel artificially for the sake of the game? Do you intend to 
limit the powers of magic a bit more? Can your characters actually affect the 
outcome of world-shaking plots, or are they limited to more modest goals? The 
scope of play is the level at which the characters’ actions have an effect. 
convention game, you just need a couple of locations and a few plots. Sure, the 
Characters’ actions may change the world, but they don’t need to fly out to Belize 
; 
* 
SC@E 
Scope tends to vary with the game’s length and size. If you’re running ashort ! 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


or Saturn or whatnot unless the plot demands. For that reason, you’ll close off 
some routes artificially by giving subtle hints like, “You sure you want to do that? 
It has little bearing on the game” or not-so-subtle ones like, “You probably 
shouldn’t go there because we’re not prepared to run that.” 
PLAYER INPUT 
Don’t forget to ask your players what they think. Running a game shouldn’t 
be a vanity affair. Check with your players and find out what they want from the 
game. They will certainly let you know what they want to do to have fun. Take 
it with a grain of salt. If you vote on everything, you’ll find the players voting in 
all the powers and benefits they want. If you at least pay attention to what they’re 
saying, though, you can compromise. 
A good idea is to have a section for player input on sheets at the end of each 
game. Let the players write down their input and thoughts (anonymously, if they 
like). Some good things to ask about include: 
What sort of venue do you want - 
what moods and themes do you enjoy? 
What plots do you enjoy? 
Do you want to play in low-power, gritty games or high-power, spiritual 
Do you prefer a focus on characterization, story or setting? 
Do you want more focus on philosophical meandering or more action? 
exploration games? 
THE 
STAGES 
Wacky Time magic notwithstanding, most good stories follow a predictable 
format. The plot shouldn’t be transparent, but rather, discrete stages should mark the 
boundaries of the story’s parts. Just as some mages measure events in cycles mirroring 
the seasons, so too do stories often follow a cycle of growth and conclusion. 
; 
Preparation 
Remember everything we talked about before? While preparation isn’t part 
of the story per se, it’s everything you need to do first to make sure that you can 
f tell the story. Set up your Narrator characters, make sure that your props are in 
place, double-check all of your cards and folders of paperwork, and go over your 
plot notes one last time. Have your sign-in sheet and venue sheet ready, and 
prepare for the deluge of game-hungry players. 
Game logistics will take up your prep time a few hours before game 
completely. Don’t just anticipate it, expect it. Devote your time to making the 
game go, because you won’t get anything else done. Even if you take a breather, 
aNarrator or player will inevitably show up with aquestion or problem. As a rule 
of thumb, anticipate a good two hours of set-up time right before the game. Take 
more if you need to make copies of your papers, new item cards and the like. 
’ 
E 
Opening 
A bunch of mages standing around wondering what’s going on doesn’t make 
’ 
I for a compelling new story, but a good back-story, a reason for everyone to show 
up and a little fanfare or conflict does. Be sure to kick off your story with an 
announcement or event that explains why everyone’s present. Maybe it’s as 
grandiose as ambassadors calling mages for miles around to meet and discuss the 
fate of the Traditions, or it’s as simple as an auction or will-reading that brings 
’ x g  everyone together. Start off with something to get people involved immediately. 
I 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The very beginning of the game is also the place where you’ll transition from 
out-of-play into play. You should have all the character records set up at a check-in 
table where players can sign in, get their papers and cards and hear any pertinent info. 
Pass out your venue sheets here too, and keep your organization at a central table, 
preferably near the entrance so people can come straight to you to check in. Once 
everybody’s signed in, take a minute to make pertinent announcements about new 
rule changes or important back-story information that everyone should know. 
C1’ imax 
Typically, a game session has a climax somewhere in the middle or near the end 
of the evening. (If it occurs too soon, you’ll have a bunch of bored players the rest of 
the night.) A long-running story has aclimax as well, which may come amidst a bunch 
of other sessions. Either way, the climax is the focal pint and crux of the action. It’s 
the point at which the players sweat over their decisions and agonize over their 
characters’ capabilities. It’s the point at which the plot becomes mostly clear, and the 
fast, furious resolution takes over. In a large game, you may even have several plots that 
all have different climax points that all occur at different times. Typically, the climax 
occurs when the players have enough clues and story angles to find a resolution to some 
problem or complication, and they bring their characters’ powers to bear. If you must, 
you can introduce a Narrator character or the like to set a climax, but it’s usually best 
for the players to experience the sense of accomplishment themselves. 
During play, you’ll probably be running around fast and furious, narrating 
challenges, shoring up problems, making rules calls on-the-spot and providing supprt 
to Narrator characters. Expect it. Players are a fickle lot, and they often long for 
guidance. You probably won’t have time to play a character of your own. Let your 
Narrators handle the important characters, since you’ll have to set up all the challenges 
for the climax (especially if you decide to use a plot element that busts the rules). 
Denouement 
After the story’s height comes the denouement - 
the aftermath. The players 
tie up loose ends, find out what was really going on and try to recover from the 
wreckage of the scenery. They also lay the groundwork for the next story. For some, 
it’s the realization that the resolution of one puzzle raised additional questions. For 
others, it’s simply amatter of moving on to the next enemy target. The denouement 
provides a little breathing space and a chance to feel the sense of accomplishment. 
At this point, you’ll find that you’re not running challenges so much as 
overseeing the use of Influence and the dissemination of information. Players will 
try to get involved in the aftermath or dig up more information about what the hell 
just happened. This point is actually a pretty good one at which to play a side 
character so that you can act as a mouthpiece and clearing-house for information. 
Keep your notes handy. You’ll need them, especially as players tell you what they 
have planned for the game’s new long-range direction in light of recent events. 
Wrap-up 
Technically, thewrapupisn’tpartofthestoryasmuchasastageofthegame 
itself. 
Duringthewrap-up, youput away yourpropsandsendyourplayerspacking. often, the 
players will want to meet somewhere to wind down and talk about the event (perhaps 
still at the game site, perhaps a restaurant or other location). When they do, you can 
tell how the game went. If the players huddle excitedly to discuss all of the amazing 
things they did, you know that you had a good story because they want to share it. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


After the game, it’s customary to let everyone decompress for a bit. This is 
a good place to get player feedback and deal with awarding extra experience or 
bookkeeping. For instance, you should take the time to make notes about your 
plots while the results remain fresh in your mind. 
pL@TS AND PLANS 
So you have this phenomenal story to tell. Will the players enjoy it? You 
can’t guarantee that they will, but you can pay attention to a few game factors 
to help. Telling a live-action story is a collaborative effort. Without the players, 
you have no cast through which to tell the tale. Therefore, you should take steps 
to involve them in the creation of plots. Sometimes players will surprise you and 
come up with plots on their own as well. The more that you can tailor your plots 
to the things that players enjoy, the more fun you’ll foster. 
BACKGRBUND 
AND HIST~RY 
PL~TS 
Remember back when your players made their characters and wrote up histories 
and lives for them? You know, the part other than the Traits. These histories are 
wonderful indicators for useful plots. Not only can you use elements of these histories 
in the game, but you can use them to gauge the sorts of things that the players find 
interesting. Ideally, a history is rife with everything from the character’s first magely 
mentor to his family and friends to fallings-out in jobs or relationships. Perhaps the 
character had some passion - 
like a desire to become a great baseball player - 
or he 
failed miserably at some effort. Work these passions into the story. Maybe the mage 
sponsorsormentorssomeone whohas talen tsthatremindthemageofherpast. Perhaps 
a jilted lover returns for vengeance or reconciliation. You don’t have to look far. The 
lives that these mages had before the Awakening provide ample fodder for stories. 
Each main plot dovetails into your overall chronicle or story execution as 
well as your theme. These plots are the ones that drive the whole chronicle 
forward andchange its face. Typically, a main plot’s resolution impacts everyone 
in the game, or it represents a substantial triumph or defeat. 
For instance, you might center a plot on the Technocracy’s attempt to 
establish a high-tech base of operations in the city. Mages with Influence will start 
to feel the effects, and their Contacts will tell that something’s up. Gradually, the 
Technocracy will make its presence known with agents and manipulations to local 
government and society. Mages who fight the Technocracy will need to act early 
I to prevent or slow this change. Others may find their activities curtailed or crushed 
’ as the Technocracy co-opts city resources. No mage’s life will remain unaffected 
atter what stance the individual takes toward the Technoc- 
the consequences of each character’s response should have a 
direct and measurable result on the overall story. 
layer will spin off his own little plot or interest. If a Hermetic 
; mage manages to lay his hands on an old tome, for instance, it may help him with 
: 
his studies but it probably won’t affect the course of the whole game. Every mage 
. 
* goes through ups and downs, just like any other person, and these tribulations 
I ,” form small stories of their own. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Often, a character’s subplot takes primary importance to the player. A character 
bent on becoming a Master will probably spend more time (and Experience Traits) 
on magical development than on the petty squabbles that occupy other mages. 
These drives aren’t necessarily indications that the main plots aren’t important, but 
you should pay attention to them. When a player ignores your main plot to do 
something else, that’s an indication of a need for a subplot. 
Some subplots are small and tidy enough to resolve on their own. If two 
characters argue over ideological differences, for instance, you’ll find that they 
can sit and harangue one another for hours without interference. Indeed, getting 
in the middle may derail the fun. On the other hand, a character hunting down 
a specific goal may need a little attention. Trying to find a hated enemy or long- 
lost treasure usually requires the Storyteller’s intervention. 
Some subplots turn into major plots without warning, which can be good 
for you. It means you don’t have to do a lot of work, but all the players have 
something else to involve themselves in. Just make sure that these plots don’t 
overshadow your original game. If a mage’s recruitment drive turns into a huge 
force to overthrow the Technocracy, your careful game of ideology and wonder 
may turn into a violence-fest. Pay careful attention to subplots. You can nurture 
them or turn them to your direction if you intervene early. Besides, your plots 
may well dovetail with the subplots, making a larger and more involved story. 
Mages don’t exist in a vacuum. Membership in a Tradition carries with it the 
camaraderie ofother mages. Whendifferent Traditions meet, their opinions inevitably 
loom large in their interpersonal relations. Characters will naturally come to settle into 
their own patterns of relationships, especially if you encourage a little conflict. 
Novice players may have a little trouble with this aspect of the game at first. 
The “we’re all in this together” mentality can quash many interesting debates. 
To fire matters up, try tossing in a Narrator character with some strong opinions. 
Let the players debate back and forth, and have a couple of different Narrator 
mages of different Traditions argue their own points of view, then try to drag in 
their allies. Hopefully, your players will take the bait and start debating the 
strengths and weaknesses of their Tradition policies. 
Furthermore, mages have families, co-workers, lovers and enemies just like 
anyoneelse.Since they dealmostwithothermages, theotherplayersnaturallyfillthese 
roles. As long as everyone’s comfortable with the separation of in-game and out-of- 
* 
game motives and there aren’t hard feelings between players whose characters dislike :i 
one another, this focus makes for good story fodder. A mage might use influence to gain 
7 
petty revenge against a hated co-worker or sacrifice his ideals to help his family or lover. :! 
As you put together your plots and ideas, remember that conflict is your 
friend. Although many players are happy to have games ofpolitical maneuvering f 
and philosophical debate, it’s the clash of ideas and opinions that makes them 
fun. For some players, overcoming the conflict is what’s enjoyable. For others, 
it’s watching how people react to the struggle and how they succeed or fail. 
Regardless, conflict keeps matters moving. 
Don’t hesitate to shake things up. Listen to what the players have planned, 
what they hope for and what they’d like to do. Then, throw some barriers in their 
CHARACTER 
RELATICDNS 
CCDNPLICT, 
CCBNRICT, 
CCBNFLICT 
f’;. ,. I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


path. Give them problems to overcome. Give them adversaries to hate. Ideally, 
the players will actually complain a little about the various difficulties of the less- 
than-ideal world, but they’ll be all the more pleased when they finally do 
overcome their problems and get what they want. Nothing galvanizes players as 
quickly as establishing some problem that impacts the characters directly. 
CREATING 
THE SJZTTING 
The story’s setting will have an immediate, tangible impact on its tone and 
mood, and it will influence the characters’ actions from the very first game 
session. Your choice of setting and how you detail it can enhance or encumber 
your plot dramatically, so don’t skimp on this element of the story. 
FINDING 
G m e  LKATICBNS 
The normal people out there (read: those who don’t play live-action games) 
generally frown upon and don’t understand such activities, especially in public. 
For this reason, if nothing else, you’ll want a private location to play. 
Most troupes won’t be able to afford to rent an actual building. If you can, 
great! Charge a couple bucks to offset costs, and make sure that you are careful 
not to destroy the scenery. There’s no sense getting on peoples’ bad sides. 
It’s more likely, though, that you’ll use a friend’s house. If you can arrange 
it, have a couple of different rooms set up. Use one for the main game site, one 
for the Umbra (if that’s important to your game) and one for off-site actions and 
your little office where you can store records and check people into play. 
Regardless of locale, make sure that you’re ready to cough up an explanation of 
what you’re doing if necessary. If your hends’ family members drop by or a few 
L wandering curious people from the general public spot the game, they may want to 
know what’s going on. If you’ve been careful not to have too many public displays of 
“magic” you can usually explain the nature of the game. You may want to have a few 
papersonhandwithaquickdescription, perhapsaspartofyourvenuestylesheet. Don’t 
bother arguing with people about your game, especially local community folks like 
church leaders and police officers. You maybe just enjoying yourselves, but if they feel 
that the game is threatening, they have the law and the community on their side. 
Obviously, some settings are nigh-impossible to replicate. Most troupes just 
don’t have the money and materials on hand to build an ancient Chantry, a 
crumbling palace or an entire spirit world. Players suspend their disbelief in 
* magic for the game -and they’ll have to suspend a little for the location as well 
n E - 
but the more you can make the location reflect the setting, the more 
f accessible it’ll be and the less it’ll detract from the game itself. 
Naturally you can do only so much with a location. If you’re stuck with a 
downtown coffee shop, there’s not too much you can do. You’ll have to run with the 
decor. When you have the opportunity to do your own decorating, use garnishes to 
‘ 
f set the stage for your game’s tone. You can put a map or description on your venue 
1 : - style sheet so that everyone knows what the location’s supposed to be like. Try to pick 
a site or decorate one so that it suits not just the physical description of the location 
: 
of the game, but also so that it facilitates the moods you want to convey. Brightly lit, 
. 
* cheery restaurants aren’t the best place for backroom plotting and treachery, nor do 
, I * dank alleyways and run-down tenements inspire hope. 
1 - 1 .  
t ‘  
i 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SET UP T@ THR~W 
D ~ W N  
Before you open the game for the evening’s play, think about how the 
setting coheres with the back-story. If your setting is supposed to be a seedy part 
of town across from a cemetery, for instance, then perhaps mages who use Spirit 
magic will catch occasional glimpses of ghosts, or ghosts may spot them. If you 
decide that the location’s just a short distance from a police department, then 
the mages will need to be much more careful to avoid attracting attention. 
The setting location itself cangive you little plot bombs to seed in the area. Each 
one is a subplot waiting to happen. Just make sure to look over the area in advance 
and decide what you want to do or how the rest of the world might impact upon it. 
Mages move through varied environments, so use little hints to help set the 
stage. Colors help to set moods. Use bright and hot colors like orange, red and 
yellow for frenetic games; use purple and blue for more languorous environs. 
Your trappings provide a hint for the imagination to springboard from. A piece 
of statuary isn’t only a chunk of background scenery, it’s a mood piece that tells 
about the setting based on its style and pose. A sparse room without decoration 
carries a message just as surely as a lavish one does. 
h B L 4 N C E  
LIGHTING 
The World of Darkness is intrinsically a darker, more shadowy place. Alleys 
are dangerous with black shade, and clouds loom in the sky with a threat of 
thunder. While you can’t control the weather, you can influence interior 
lighting. For a moody, sedate game, use blue-colored lights, close the blinds and 
put dark rugs on the floor to absorb reflection. Vary the lights as the story 
demands. Perhaps a great magical working causes lights to blow out, or more 
lights are appropriate for a large meeting. You can use candles or lamps (if you’re 
careful with the flame) to represent a more archaic setting, like the sanctum of 
an ancient Hermetic. If you’re showcasing the Umbra, try dark blue and violet 
lighting. For the Shadowlands, mix a few dim lights with some blacklight. 
, 
mus1c 
Although you must be careful not to allow it to overpower the game, music adds 
a definite edge. Queue up a CD player in the comer with some soft ambient music, 
preferably without distracting lyrics, and you’ll generate some undertones without 
much effort. Music has a powerful emotional impact, but it’s best when it’s subtle. 
If you have to shout to be heard over the words of the music, it’s just distracting. 
Different sorts of music are appropriate for different venues. New Age and 
trance help to convey a mystical feeling, as do traditional instrumental pieces 
such as folk music. Classical music gives a grandiose, regal bearing, such as might 
be appropriate for a convocation of Tradition mages. Techno and industrial can 
accompany Technocrats or certain Tradition technomancers. Darkwave and 
Gothic music works for Hollow Ones, dealings with ghosts and spirit worlds. So 
does Native American folk music. Gregorian chants are appropriate for slow, 
religious proceedings like high ceremonies and churches, while Akashic Broth- 
erhood initiates would relax among Buddhist chants and Taiko drums. You can 
also use natural sounds (sounds of rain, running water or the like) to simulate the 
naturalistic impact of groups like the Verbena or the feel of the spirit world 
meeting the material. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


PR€BPS 
The game’s props are the final touches you add to the setting. Since players will 
recognize them and associate them with various memories or moods, the props have 
a powerful impact - 
more so if they can be picked up and used by your players. 
Stage Props 
The stage props are the pieces of art and furniture that help set the scene. These 
settings range from the mundane to the magnificent. You don’t need to spend a lot of 
moneyorbeawizardat interiordesign.Useyourpiecestoaccentuate,nottooverburden. 
You’ll find many useful stage pieces around your own house. A painting or mural 
in one room can help set a specific tone, or you might bring along some furniture like 
chairs (very handy since your players probably won’t appreciate standing around all 
night) orlamps intowhichyoucanputyourcoloredlightbulbs. 
Dropinarug orcarpet. 
You can use sheets, drapes or even towels to make wall hangings or to cover an 
inconvenient window. A bowl of h i t  or a vae can add a touch of class to a bare table. 
Even if you don’t have the props you want at home, you can usually pick some 
up cheaply. Offer incentives to your players who help out. An Experience Trait 
award for logistics may be a nice kicker to promote bringing in handy props. Set 
up a prop list of pieces you want (which will also make a nice checklist when you 
pack up at the end of a game). You’ll find that antique stores and secondhand stores 
often have some odd knickknacks. These trinkets are especially appropriate for 
mages, since mages tend to collect odd items reminiscent of specific cultures or 
historical periods. Therefore, that odd little cherub statue or Aztec mosaic may be 
just the piece to go with your Celestial Chorus or Dreamspeaker characters. 
Small props tend to be more useful than large props, just because they’re easy 
to use. Remember that you’ll have to lug the props around to set up your game site. 
If it takes you longer to set up the props than to play the actual game, it’s taking too 
much effort. A large oaken table may be just the thing you want, but if you can’t lug 
it around and it keeps people from moving around the room, it may not be worth the 
effort. Accentuate first. Put special lighting near trophy pieces or stick a piece on top 
of a table or whatnot to draw attention without taking up too much room. 
Personal Props 
Not every player can spare the investment for all the foci and trappings of a 
character. As Storyteller, you should facilitate these things by bringing along some 
personal props of your own. Not only does doing so allow you to showcase the sorts of 
props you consider good, but it lets you set a standard of what is and isn’t acceptable. 
It also helps players who otherwise wouldn’t have the appropriate materials, and it lets 
you keep a bunch of props on hand with which to supply your Narrator characters. 
Like stage props, you should use personal props judiciously. A great gnarled 
staff is a nifty conversation piece, but it’s no good when it’s whacking other 
players and getting caught in doorways. Look for bits of jewelry or clothing, 
especially in second-hand stores, for cheap accessories that bring out the 
character’s personality. A Euthanatos might look like an average Joe in black 
clothes, until you add on the necklace of Kali, while a Dreamspeaker could have 
1 . - elaborate feathers, paints, rattles and dream-catchers for a high ritual ceremony. 
As noted before, Laws of Ascension tends to be rather setup intensive. You 
have a lot to keep track of, so you’d better do as much as you can ahead of time. 
, 
, 
: * PLAYING 
WITH PAPERW~RK 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Still, preparation doesn’t obviate the need to keep papers organized during the 
game as well. A Storyteller might find time to run a character, but more often it’ll 
take all the time and effort to keep the story moving while keeping records current. 
Hard copy is your friend. Many Traits fluctuate wildly in play, so take note as 
best you can. Obviously you can’t track easily the flow of things like Quintessence 
or every Ability Trait used, but you can take notes on good roleplayers, new rotes 
learned, plot points that showed up and checklists that you’ve made. You can keep 
records during play, then transfer them into your notebook at the close of the game. 
Keep your books as current as you can. Making sure that you follow up quickly will 
avoid problems later. Youcan take advantage of computer databases, palm pilots and 
the like to make your note-taking easier, but be sure to print everything out with 
dates too, just in case something happens to the computer records. 
CHARACTER 
k m ~ s  
Keep copies of every character record for yourself. Doing so serves many pu~poses. 
If your players lose their records, you have new copies for them. You can also update 
character records between games. You can even check to see who has certain Back- 
grounds, Abilities or Advantages. You can put down notes as the game progresses. If a 
playereamsanExperienceTraitorleamsanewrote,youcanwriteitdownimmediately. 
Then update your database at the end of the game, and you’ll keep current. 
The advancement rate in your game depends a lot on how much experience 
you award. Typically, you shouldn’t award more than two or three Traits in a 
game session, with four tops for the absolute best roleplay, logistical help and the 
like. Don’t forget that even experience isn’t the only measure of advancement. 
As shown on p. 137, just learning certain Spheres can take a lot of time. 
Make sure to keep running tallies of Experience Traits on character 
records. That way, you know just how much the character needs to advance 
and how much he’s already spent. Plus, the player can calculate on his own 
and savor the anticipation. 
Typically, you should award one Experience Trait for surviving a game 
session. A strong roleplaying session is worth an extra Trait, and you might award 
a Trait for agood costume, achieving a specific goal or helping with Narration and 
logistics. When you give roleplaying bonuses, popular acclaim is a good measure 
but it’s not the only measure. Many good characters don’t do their best work in 
public, and just because someone’s funny or intense doesn’t mean that others 
aren’t worthy of notice for roleplaying a more sedate character properly. 
INf LUENCE 
Of all the Backgrounds, Influence is probably the most likely to impact 
directly on stories and come into direct conflict. Two characters might use 
opposing Influences to make bids for power. You need to keep careful track of 
who does what, and when, in order to make sure that Influences clash correctly. 
If a mage uses Church Influence to stop something at the beginning of the game, 
take a note so that someone later using Political Influence to change it winds up 
properly fighting over the Influence clash. Besides, this clash is more good fodder 
for subplots and non-lethal player conflict. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


play. It’sup to you todetermine what’s fair for the game, andit’smucheasierjust to leave 
Pandora’s box unopened than to close it once you’ve let the twinks out. 
As an aside, this book says again and again that it’s full of optional rules and that 
it’s up to the Storyteller to pick the rules that are usable and fun for the group. This 
isn’t just talk. On your venue style sheet, be sure to list your house rules, optional rules 
and changes. That way, you can avoid later fights, since you can always pull out the 
: sheet and be certain that the players knew what you had in mind. 
*I THE 
CARE AND FEEDING 
CEF PLAYERS 
The player-Storyteller relationship is a special one. Players have high 
expectations, especially since everyone has a unique desire for the direction of 
the game. Players need to trust the Storyteller to be impartial, and they need to 
accept that the Storyteller knows what he’s doing. Trouble ensues if the players 
get a little too crotchety or rebellious.. . this is all for fun, isn’t it? 
Be sure to talk regularly to the players, not just as the Storyteller, but as an 
acquaintance. You need them to feel comfortable voicing their concerns, and 
, am you should watch them so that you can head off problems before they hit. 
STCBRY 
EVENTS 
Hopefully, your notebook of story materials includes a short synopsis of various 
plots. As certain events occur, you can check them off or make notes about their 
execution. This’ll help later to determine who exactly was involved in a specific 
fiasco, how torunwithanongoingevolvingstory and what theplayersenjoyedmost. 
Be sure to jot down names, prominent actions and perhaps a few ideas for 
consequences. In some cases, the players will come up with explanations for a plot 
that are far off from what you had in mind, but they might be fun anyway. Don’t be 
afraid to run with those ideas in order to make the plot fit a good idea that you hear. 
CHARACT~RCREATI~N 
Although character creation occupies its own chapter, it’s a special task for the 
Storyteller as well. Some parts of character creation that seem downright simple can 
require aid from a Storyteller all too often. After all, a mage doesn’t drop into avacuum. 
What if your game already has enough Hermetics? What if the Storyteller is sick of 
seeing characters with Brawl x5? The venue style sheet should take care of many such 
conflicts, but sometimes it’s unavoidable. Someone could just make something up 
because he either doesn’t know better or hopes for special dispensation. 
Ideally, character creation should occupy time before or after a game. The 
Storyteller has too much to do during the game to get bogged down. A helpful 
Narrator can oversee the process, but it’s usually better to have the characters 
in advance specifically so that you can use them to feed subplots later. Also, as 
Storyteller you know best what you want from the game, what would be 
problematic and what’s likely to find a good niche. Help the players make 
characters with vibrant backgrounds and strong plot hooks. 
Inaddition toacharacter’sTraits, youneed tolookovercertainancillarymaterials 
that come with the territory. If you have pre-made rote cards and item cards, you can 
just hand them out, but often you‘ll need to make up new ones for new characters. 
Similarly, if you use Paradox cards, you’ll need to grab some from your pool or make 
new ones. All of these cards require your thought and approval beforehand. Don’t let 
aplayershoehorn you into approving abunchofquestionablerotesfive minutesbefore 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Some players take the game a little too much to heart. They dwell on what they can 
do and take it as a personal attack if their characters are laid low. This obsession is a sort 
ofbackhanded compliment, since it means that the player is very involved in the game, 
but it also presents dfficulties because the player may not accept the consequences of 
negativerepercussionsor characterdeath. Youneed tostopandremind these p p l e  that 
it’s only a game. You may need to have the player head home and cool down for a while 
before you talk about consequences of stories. You’ll wind up with a dissatisfied player 
otherwise, and dissatisfied players have a tendency to gripe their personal frustrations to 
anyone who’ll listen about how unfair and tyrannical you are. 
Some players just aren’t active enough in the game. They expect things to come 
to them, or they just don’t know what to do. You need to encourage your players to 
take action.They can’t just sit aroundwaitingfor enlightenment tostrike. Prod them 
a little with the threat of enemies who might surpass them if they don’t move, or the 
promise ofbenefits that they might attain. Again, don’t hesitate to mention outside 
the game that the player might want to think about strategies. If a player is frustrated 
by a lack of accomplishment, encourage him to try a few things or take a few risks. 
Since Laws of Ascension requires so much set-up, it can be daunting to 
first-timers. Players who don’t know what they’re diving into, especially if 
they’ve never roleplayed before, can easily find the game disheartening, too 
challenging or just too strange. Obviously you don’t want that. You want them 
to have a good time and hopefully to come back for more. 
Setting up a new player is more than just slinging out a character sheet and 
running on the fly. New players require special attention. That personal attention 
helps to build the level of trust between Storyteller and player and gives you the 
chance to explain the game exactly as you see it. That way, you can be sure that 
the player learns of terms and rules in a way that’s appropriate to how you play. 
For first-timers, you’ll do well if you sit down ahead of time, perhaps with 
a Narrator, and go over the game tenets first. Don’t start with rules, start with 
concepts. Explain why the game is supposed to be fun and what you do. Explain 
the concept of roleplaying and go over your venue style sheet to look at what you 
personally try to promote with the game. Then you can get down to talking about 
character concepts and Traits. The important part is to make sure that the player 
has an interesting character and doesn’t feel lost coming in to play. 
A good system is the buddy system: Match up a new player with an old-hand 
character. Your new player’s Hermetic mage, for instance, might be an apprentice , 
or contemporary of an existing Hermetic character. Hook up the players and make 
some introductions, then ask the experienced player to help show the new guy the ; 
ropes.Thenewp1ayerhasamentorwhocanguide himandhelphim toavoidpitfalls, 
while the experienced player has the chance to sway this fresh mind to his side. 
‘ 
Sometimes, you’ll find that older players see new ones as fresh meat. They 
use their powerful characters to steamroller the new ones, feeling that this 
behavior somehow conveys a sense of superiority. You should discourage this 
behavior. At the very least, it’s bad roleplaying. At worst, it’s no fun for the new 
players and just encourages them to find a different hobby. You should crack 
down on this behavior by withholding roleplaying Experience Traits, exempt- 
ing new players from challenges or introducing your own powerful Narrator 
NEW PLAYERS 
i: - .: 
h 5  
1 
character who frowns upon such steamrollering. 
, &.’a 
, 
il? 
I’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


G~AL+~.IENTED 
vs. ST~RY~~RIENTED 
PLAYERS 
While there are as many types of players as there are people, you’ll find that a 
lot of them easily divide into the following two simple categories for game purposes: 
goal-oriented and story-oriented. Once you figure out which category describes your 
player, you’ll find it easier to accommodate the player’s way to enjoy the game. 
A goal-oriented player - 
which usually makes up about 80.90% of the 
group -relies on achievement and actual measurable steps. These players savor 
the sense of accomplishment of overcoming adversaries, achieving new levels of 
power and gaining Traits or treasures. To them, the game may tell a story, but 
they can win if they advance their agendas and improve their characters’ 
strengths like a protagonist in a popular novel. You’ll satisfy these players if you 
give them things to beat and chances to earn new Traits, better rotes and more 
powerful Backgrounds or items. Some see the game as an exercise not in 
storytelling, but in numbers. For these people, the game is about tweaking the 
rules and running the other players (i.e., competitors) into the ground. These 
sorts don’t often cooperate well when you want to tell a story for everyone. 
However, goal-orientation isn’t all bad. It keeps the player moving forward, and 
it gives you concrete means to reward them or show success. 
A story-oriented player relishes the emotions and ideas evoked by the game. 
These players don’t care if their characters die hideously, languish under a 
terrible curse or otherwise “lose.” Numbers and Traits aren’t as important as 
getting on with the story itself. As in a tragedy where the protagonist dies, goes 
insane or suffers some other horrible fate, the story-oriented player enjoys the 
conflicts, feelings and conundrums that face the character, not necessarily the 
process of beating them. These players often make easy prey for goal-oriented 
players, because the latter sometimes enjoy defeating other players and the story- 
oriented players aren’t as focused upon Traits and ways to make the rules work 
to their advantage. However, having story-oriented players along helps build a 
core of people who want a game experience, not just an exercise in engineering. 
Many players fall somewhere between the two extremes. Early game experiences 
e -from sports to board games -usually teach people to play in a goal-oriented mode, 
to score pints and overcome obstacles. Players with more background in theater and 
literature may be more story-oriented. Ideally you’ll want to strike a balance. Goal- 
oriented players help to advance the game and keep it moving, while story-oriented 
players provide a good response to the surroundings and play up the drama. 
. 
1 
: TRAINING 
Yem PLAYERS 
So you’ve got a bunch of players, and you want to turn them into a troupe. 
jrli 
Doing so takes some work, especially given the different game styles and the 
”’ introduction of players who don’t know how the game is played. How, then, do 
you train your players to enjoy the game you’re running? 
To some degree, you just have to be lucky and have good players. If one of your 
* 
players is hell-bent on running over all of the others in the MageMobile or he wants 
I * 
to design the ritual Effect that’ll kill all vampires everywhere, then he is probably 
* 
~ 
missing the point of the storytelling experience. You can hope, you can wheedle and 
, 
you can try to limit the player to less outrageous outbursts, but you may not be able 
’ . to change him. That’s just the way it is. If a player’s too problematic, then you need 
, *a to get rid of him before he damages the game for everyone else. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


However, you can do a little Pavlovian training to nudge your players in the right 
direction. The roleplaying Experience Trait award is only one such bonus. Those who 
play their characters well and take a few hits for the story receive a tangible benefit in 
terms of points. Enforcing consequences for actions is one of the most important things 
you can do. A lot of things that are technically legal in the rules are just plain bad ideas. 
You can enforce the social penalties of mages, by branding an offender or even having 
powerful mages show up to deal with a problem child. Don’t hesitate. This sort of 
punishment proves to agoal-oriented player that screwing around is a losing situation, 
while a story-oriented player will take this beating in stride and either shape up or drive 
the character straight into self-destruction. 
Rewarding story-crafting is a little harder. Try to cleave to the requirements 
that add to story building. For instance, insist that players use their Traits to 
describe their actions narratively. Doing so isn’t just Storytelling by fiat, but it 
encourages the players to think about the appearance of what they’re doing and 
how their characters do it. That’s why the Traits are there instead of just 
numbers, after all. Similarly, if a player doesn’t pantomime or describe the 
actions of foci and casting an Effect, assign a slight penalty to the Arete test. 
Obviously, the mage isn’t bothering to use his enlightened tools. 
Most importantly, talk with your players about what you want to accom- 
plish. Sometimes you’ll want to ask a player to bend a little for the good of the 
story. Maybe a mage can kill someone, but he shouldn’t for the sake of the story. 
Good roleplaying doesn’t mean following an ironclad concept that straightjac- 
kets you into actions that throw the game. It means playing a role to a hilt that’s 
fun, and making sure that it’s equally fun for everyone else. 
NARRAT€BRS 
The Narrators are the friends, confidants and co-conspirators of the 
Storyteller. While a Narrator usually doesn’t have as much say in plots and rules, 
a Narrator does have the authority to moderate scenes, play special characters 
for the plot and make judgment calls on the spot. The Narrator serves as a 
stopgap to address the fact that you can’t oversee the whole game at once and 
that you’ll just need a helping hand from time to time. 
Obviously there’s no real limit to your Narrating staff, except the number of 
people you can recruit and trust. A Narrator takes on significant responsibilities, 
so he needs to be someone you’ll put stock in. Also, a Narrator needs a decent 
handle on the rules, just to make sure that all ofher judgment calls and moderation 
flow smoothly. Beyond that, it’s upon you to decide on your Narrator staff. A good 
ratio is one Narrator for every five to 10 players, but it will vary with your own 
energy and the size of the game. In a game of 20 or fewer people in a small area, 
you might oversee it yourself, while in a huge convention game, you might want 
Narrators who specifically administer and coordinate other Narrators. 
Since you’ll be so busy during the game, you should encourage your players 
to seek the help of Narrators. For small questions or scenes, a Narrator should do 
just fine. Of course, the Narrators can come to you if they have trouble, but that 
should be a last resort. Make sure that your Narrators know what you want from 
the game so that you don’t overrule them later. If you undermine their authority, 
the players won’t go to them for moderation. In turn, don’t micromanage. Let the 
Narrators handle rule decisions and play out important roles. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


It’s important for your Narrators to wear nametags or otherwise be identi- 
fied so that people know whom to talk to, and they understand that the kick-ass 
Master wandering around isn’t some player cheating or getting favoritism. 
In addition to general rules Narrators and players of your plot characters, you 
might want to use some specialized Narrators to pick up special needs of the game. 
An Avatar Guide handles narration for all Avatar-driven events. Usually this 
isn’t too much to do. The Narrator just takes care of the interaction of Avatar and 
mage. Most of the time, this is a simple job of handling the whispers or urges that 
an Avatar may give to a mage. Rarely, the Avatar Guide will take on the role of 
an Avatar as it manifests in a dream (or even physically) to guide its patron. 
The Avatar Guide’s most important role lies in Seekings. When you arrange a 
Seeking, be sure to have the Avatar Guide along. The Avatar Guide plays the role 
of the individual Avatar, pushing the mage to enlightenment and making demands. 
This role is difficult, because the Avatar Guide must understand not only the 
Avatar’s Essence, but the mage’s background. Keep the mage’s history on file (You 
didget ahisto ryonfile fromtheplayer, right?) sothat the AvatarGuidecanreference 
it. When you sit down to craft a Seeking, bring your Avatar Guide along, so that you 
can work together and make sure that the Avatar reacts appropriately. 
THE 
AVATAR 
GUIDE 
I 
THE PARAD@% TUDGE 
Sometimes you want a system that encourages a little wild Paradox, but you 
can’t rely on Paradox cards or you don’t like using straight damage. In such cases, 
you rely on a Paradox Judge. 
The Paradox Judge has the difficult job of coming up with Paradox 
Backlashes and events to respond to various magely workings. When a mage 
gains Paradox, it’s up to this Narrator to decide if the Paradox hangs and what 
effect it takes. The Paradox Judge might have a deck of Paradox cards, or you 
might trust him to come up with results on the spur of the moment. The Paradox 
Judge should create or approve Paradox cards in any case, if you use them. 
Either way, this position is a difficult one. The Paradox Judge has the 
thankless task of inflicting hardship on characters, which always draws ire from 
the players. Furthermore, players will tend to avoid magic specifically when they 
notice the Paradox Judge around. For this reason, you should consider using 
walkie-talkies or headsets to communicate, so that the Paradox Judge can make 
judgment calls from a distance. 
’ 
8 
THE 
SPINT 
KEEPER 
For games with many spirits or lots of Umbral travel, you’ll need a Spirit Keeper. 
This Narrator handles all matters spiritual, including keeping spirit Traits, tracking 
important recurringspirits, deciding onGauntlet 1evelsandclassifyingUmbralrealms. 
When a mage summons up a spirit, it’s up to the Spirit Keeper to play out 
I that role and make sure that the spirit is duly recorded for future notice. The 
Spirit Keeper also tracks the notoriety of mages who abuse spirit hospitality, and 
* 
he decides on the appropriateness of various fetishes. The Spirit Keeper further 
I * 
serves as the final authority on Umbral denizens and characteristics. Therefore, 
‘ 
e the Spirit Keeper determines what sort of magic is coincidental in the Umbra 
, ‘a and what the rules of various Realms are. 
‘ 
! - I .  
I .  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Unless you’re running aone-shot game, you will have some downtime between 
episodes.That is, the charactersmay exist inasortofperpetuallimbo, shelved in your 
files, but that doesn’t mean that they’re necessarily without action. Indeed, since 
there are long stretches of time between games, this time is ripe for the use of long- 
term actions like Influence, Umbral quests and lengthy ritual magic. 
Downtimes aver the stuffthat charactersdo in the space betweengames. Naturally, 
there’s only so much that you can do in a set amount of time, but you can do more in a 
downtime period than you can in a few hours of game play. To moderate this time, you 
should have downtime sheets available for your players. At the end of the game, let your 
players write down on pieces of paper the sorts of actions that they want to take. Have 
them prioritize their actions, so that they might get to some but not others. Then, between 
games, you can figure out what happens and set up responses to hand out with the 
character records at the beginning of the next game. These oppormnities are perfect for 
using Backgrounds such as Allies and Influence so that the character can accomplish 
tricky or lengthy tasks like securing occult instruction, manipulating the mayor’s office 
or putting a lock down on criminal activity within a few blocks. 
When you use downtimes, be sure to set a deadline. You don’t need players 
turning in a downtime a day before the game and demanding results. 
Good actions for downtime include: 
Determining where the mage lives and how she survives day-to-day 
Finding out what Nodes the mage visits 
Searching for occult materials or instructors 
Casting lengthy rituals (especially divinations) 
Exercising Allies and Influence 
Learning new Spheres 
You can also take downtimes through email, if you’re so inclined. 
TR~UBLESH~~TING 
~RR~REEBIT~‘THW’SNC”STCBDCBNTI-I
There’s always someone who feels this way. One of the difficulties lies in 
separating the constant complainers (it happens) from folks with a legitimate 
difficulty. Problems of this sort can stem from many different difficulties, and they’re 
not necessarily the fault of the Storyteller. Check the following possibilities: 
Is the player pursuing her character’s goals actively? Some players are too afraid 
of losing their characters, or they just don’t plan out means to pursue their goals. 
Is the player hoarding information she should be sharing? This is a 
constant problem. Often, one player will gain some information about a plot, 
then sit on it to the exclusion of everyone else. If the player isn’t sure what to 
do with it or doesn’t want to risk it, then the plot languishes. 
Is the player refusing to interact with other players during games? Sure, 
some characters may be loners or have social difficulties, but almost everyone 
has at least one acquaintance. 
Did the player miss one or more vital clues?This problem might be a story 
issue. You should usually have multiple entry points to a plot and provide 
multiple ways to enter the story from clues or activities. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Did the player create a full character background? If not, why is the 
character already in play? 
Is the pace of the game too slow for the player? It’s possible that the player 
just demands a faster pace than you want to play. In such a case, the player needs 
to decide whether it’s worth a little boredom to get to the high points. 
Is the player achieving her character goals too easily?Your player may just 
be clever, or your plots might not be convoluted and challenging enough. 
Is there something in particular the player dislikes or doesn’t understand 
about the story? Sometimes, the player really wants to play, but he just doesn’t like 
the game you have to offer. In such a case, you don’t have much choice if you don’t 
want to change your game. The player just needs to find agame more to his liking. 
Even when you go out of your way to introduce plot elements, some players 
may still become bored. In some cases, it’s because the player isn’t interested in 
those elements. Check the character background to see what the player found 
interesting enough to include there. In other cases, the players feel stampeded 
when more powerful characters step in. You might consider directing some of 
the plots straight at the lesser characters, perhaps by introducing them through 
Narrator characters who go straight to an individual with a targeted plot. 
In some cases, you’ll have players who just aren’t social or are too passive, 
and they don’t become involved in what’s going on. The buddy system (see p. 
247) is a good helper here, so that a passive player gets dragged along with a more 
active one. However, if a player is too passive, sometimes there’s not much you 
can do. You can force the player to react to situations, but if the player won’t 
stand up and become involved, then there’s no way to force him to have fun. 
TGXB 
ITIKH VI~XWE 
“ N ~ T A N C D T H E R ~  
CCB~T!’’ 
Let’s face it, some players out there relish conflict, find nothing more enjoyable 
than beating down the other players’ characters and happily count up all their Traits 
and powers as measures of personal prowess. These twinks, as they’re not-so- 
a affectionately known, believe in engineering their characters to beat all comers, 
taking the lead by bullying and quashing all opposition. Unless a group of players 
becomessufficiently motivated tooust them, thetwinksmayrunroughshodoverthe 
game, wrecking every person and plot in contact with them. Invariably, they have 
, escape clauses worked out so that they never suffer the consequences of their actions. 
(“I have Arcane x5 so nobody remembers me. And I change my appearance with Life 
magic. Then I kill all of the police officers who were chasing me. After that, I teleport 
away so that they can’t follow, wait two days to heal the Paradox damage, then come 
back to have my revenge. With +5 Traits from an extended Life ritual.”) 
It may sound cruel, but there’s little way around it: Do Not Suffer A Twink 
I To Live. A obsessive goaleoriented player like this causes too much conflict to 
4 the rest of the game, especially with the tendency to bully around other players 
, 
who just want to roleplay and have a good time. You can sometimes keep the 
’ 1  twinks occupied with heavy-duty combat. A twink will leap at the chance to 
I 
crush enemies that he can be sure of defeating (and, conversely, he will flee at 
‘ the first sign of truly powerful opposition - 
or opposition targeted against him 
: 
specifically), all so that he can have another victory under his belt. 
However, you can’t be expected to spend all of your time moderating 
I ,” combats for one player (or one cabal of twinks). Corner your twink and try to 
.‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


find out what’s motivating him to dominate the game. Many will have some sort 
of excuse. Puncture that with direct evidence: How many other characters have 
been killed already? How many times has the game stopped while confused 
Narrators tried to follow the player’s logic for why his Spheres grant unstoppable 
powers? How many of this player’s characters have fought for or demanded 
positions of leadership and threatened others with a good smacking if they were 
denied? Suggest that the player re-examine his motives and decide whether he 
really wants to play so competitively in a game that is cooperative by definition. 
If the player is just gung-ho about the beat-down, then perhaps he should head 
to a game that fosters such attitudes a little more. (Conversely, if you enjoy 
running live-action Street Fighter, then go for it. There’s nothing wrong with 
it if everyone’s having fun. The only problem comes when many players stop 
enjoying themselves and start complaining about too much fighting.) 
Rant over. On some occasions, you’ll run into excess combat because of 
lemming syndrome. A small fight will break out, and a few bored other players will 
wander over and want to cycle in. You can curb this effect in a couple of ways. Host 
the game setting in a locale where such uberviolence wouldn’t be tolerated (like 
an important Chantry where Adepts would put a quick stop to it). Or you can just 
maneuver combats to another room where other characters can’t simply drop in. 
Also remember to enforce some sense of time limits. If a player wanders on over 
to acombat at the corner of the Quik-Mart, it may well take several turns (at three 
seconds a turn) for the character to actually arrive on the scene. That should be 
long enough for the combat to finish before the character actually arrives. 
 ETAW WING 
“ H W , Y @ W ~ ~ B C A N ~  
P~SBLY hew THAT!’’ 
Perhaps one of the most pervasive problems in a large-scale format, and one of the 
most ddficult to curb, lies in metagaming. Some players will migrate their out-of-game 
knowledge into the game. Little snippets ofoverheard conversation or the like will turn 
into actions. They may not even use it to rationalize their actions; they simply act 
according to their meta-knowledge. (“No, I was just wandering into the back room for 
a smoke, really. I didn’t know that you planned to ambush the Master there.”) 
You should adopt strict in-character policy for your games. As long as your 
players are in the play locale, they’re in play. They’re subject to challenges, and 
anything they say can be used against them, which cuts back marvelously on the 
supervillain-like gloating. Set aside a room (a kitchen with snacks is a good idea, , 
or a smoking area outside) for out-of-play interactions, but encourage people to 
stay in character as much as possible. 
If you actually catch someone metagaming, punish it quickly and harshly. 
Don’t ever let people migrate their knowledge facetiously into play. It’s cheat- 
ing, plain and simple. 
~.R~NIIE~ATIVE 
PLAYERS 
Y ~ U  
CN T D@ THA~ T @ ~ Y  
C
~
~
T
~
T
P
P
 
Remember (to quote Deird’re Brooks): Story is everything. Obey Your Storyteller. 
You must establish your storytelling authority early and firmly. Allow a player 
one shot at making a position, but if a player argues continually, just say NO. It’s up 
to you to enforce the rules and story of the game. Disruptive players undermine your 
8 
‘r’:, 
I, 
I 
.I, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


authority, it shows disrespect for your game, and it slows things down. After the 
player’s made one point, remind her firmly that you’re the final authority, that you 
have made your decision and that perhaps your ruling is based on factors that the 
player isn’t aware of. (You can’t tell them all of your tricks and secret plots.) If the 
player continues to argue, suggest that she take a little time out-of-play to cool off. 
Some players can’t deal with the fact that things won’t always go their way, or 
they will just argue with other players. Step in quickly to resolve these disputes. In 
the former case, you will probably just have to ask the player to leave. Those who 
can’t deal with the fact that the game doesn’t always go as they desire can’t be allowed 
to disrupt it for everyone else. In the latter case, you can’t let the players disrupt 
things, but you can step in to clear up a ruling before matters spiral out of hand. 
STCBRYTELLER 
BURNCBUT. 
“I CAN’T THINK 
a= 
ANY 
~€ICBRE 
STCBNES.” 
The muse doesn’t punch a time clock. Sometimes, you just can’t come up 
with something new. When you absolutely have no more inspiration, or when 
you start seeing the game as a chore, it’s time to set it aside. 
You may feel like you have a duty to your players to run the game, but 
consider this: Your first duty is to entertain. If you can’t do that, if you are just 
out of fun things to do, then you should let someone else take up the mantle. 
There will be other games. You don’t have to shoulder this burden forever. 
Maybe it’s time for you to be a player. That way, you too can experience what 
it’s like to play and have a Storyteller whose rules and games styles don’t exactly 
j match up with your own. As long as you can back away far enough that you don’t 
try to keep pushing the new Storyteller to doing things your way. 
PLAYER CHEATING: 
“HEY Yeu DIDN’T,~~VE 
THAT 
SPHERE 
A lFEw T~INUTES 
AGCB! 
It’s me, but sometimes a player will make up Traits, grant himself items or use 
Keep aquisling or two among the players to report back to you with the state 
of satisfaction among the group. Some players won’t hesitate to give you a piece 
of their mind, but others will simply drift quietly away from the game. Sometimes 
that wonderful plot you came up with just isn’t working, and you should pay 
attention. If nobody enjoys the game, it’s time to change gears. Conversely, you 
will occasionally run into players who gripe whenever they don’t feel like the 
center of attention or get what they want. Some are just griping out of habit, and 
they stay quiet when they’re enjoying themselves. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Don’t take game criticism personally. Sure, it’s your imagination and your 
story, but just because some people don’t like it doesn’t mean that it’s without 
merit. You may just need something different to satisfy the group. Also remember 
that a story runs on conflict. Players will complain loud and long when they feel 
like they’re given the short end of the stick, but it’s overcoming such adversity that 
gives them a sense of accomplishment and triumph. If a player gripes that the story 
sucks but the real problem is that the character’s in a bad spot, then you may just 
be in the conflict part of a story cycle, and matters will probably pick up once it’s 
resolved. Also, if a bunch of players dislike a given story element, that dislike is a 
great motivator for them to get involved and change it in the course of the game. 
Sure, everyone will bitch if a crazed Master shows up and starts dictating policy, 
but they’ll relish the victory all the more once they beat him or manage to 
circumvent him and accomdish their own eoals anvwav. 
FAVCHUTISIII: 
“Y&’RE 
CBNLY LETTIN;  HI^ 
PLAY A ~ ~ , S T E R  
EECAUSE HE s YWR BCDYRUEND!” 
Although you shouldn’t always be fair - life isn’t, and neither are 
Storytellers -you should be impartial. That is, if you shaft a character, it should 
be on the basis of story elements or just random fate, not because you personally 
dislike the player. Similarly, you should not give advantages to people just 
because you like them. You might occasionally want to reward a good player with 
extra Experience Traits, but do so only sparingly. You may also hand pick certain 
people for specific roles, if you think that doing so will facilitate the story. 
Quash favoritism wherever you find it. First, step back and try to ask yourself if 
there’s any truth to the accusation. If you have a g o d  Narrator who’s not just a yes- 
man, ask for an outside opinion. If you realize that you are actually playing favorites, 
then you should stop. Chances are, if your relationship with someone is strained over 
afew imaginarypints inagame, thentherelationship wasn’t that strong tobeginwith. 
On the other hand, if you’re not playing favorites, be sure to address the issue. 
You don’t need a growing groundswell of player discontentment just because 
people think that you’re playing favorites and ignoring complaints. Let the players 
know that they’re heard, and explain your actions and considerations. 
PR~BLEIII 
PLAYERS: “HE‘S RUINING 
THE Gmd” 
Some players are just freakishly successful at what they do. This isn’t all bad, 
but if it hoards all the fun plots or stops other people from becoming involved, 
the game starts to revolve around those players alone, which detracts from other 
players’ fun. In such a situation, you can forge an artificial balance again. Ask the 
players to step back a little and let some other people have fun too. 
In other cases, you run afoul of the twink. Don’t hesitate to lay the smack down on 
players who really cause a problem. A little inter-player conflict is unavoidable, but it 
shouldn’tcausegrieforruinthegame. Makesurethatthere’sbasistotheaccusationsfirst. 
If it’s just one personcomplaining, then it maybe aproblemgriper or someone who wound 
up losing out onaplot arc and who’s just dissatisfied. Ifyou hear lotsofcomplaints, chances 
are good that one player is a problem. Deal with it. That’s your job. 
A tough responsibility of the Storyteller is to deal with problem players whom 
you otherwise like as people. You may really enjoy hanging out with your friend, and 
you may respect him a lot, but if he’s wrecking the game, he’s got to go. There’s no 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


way around it. Players who are very charismatic and who manage to weasel their way 
out of consequences, intimidate everyone into following their orders, squash anyone 
in their way and ridicule those who don’t follow them eventually cause the game to 
blow up. They add to out-of-game problems as well by wrecking friendships over the 
whole process. When you have a player calling the cops, making threats and abusing 
other players for some perceived game superiority, it doesn’t matter how much you 
like the person as an individual or how good the excuses are. This person threatens 
the integrity of the game and of real life, and he just has to go. 
LA& CBF CU~PABILPIY: “PLAYERS SHWLD PWCE 
,, 
$THER PLAYERS, NCBT ST~RYTELLERCHARACTERS. 
In a word, wrong! Remember that consequences play a very important role 
in the game, just as they do in real life. A character who runs about doing stupid, 
dangerous or malicious things must feel the consequences of those actions. 
When characters don’t suffer the consequences, the players become cocky and 
try to pull off too many stunts that could wreck the game. Plus, they start sliding 
into bullying their way through everything. If there are no consequences for 
negative acts, then they’ll throw morality out the window and do as they please. 
One reason that mages don’t take over the world is that there are far too 
many influential Sleepers. Mundane institutions can counter a mage’s influence 
or make his life hellish. Simple solutions often lead to bigger problems. It’s not 
merely a matter of evading the police or erasing a few memories. A mage who 
wants to effect long-term change must manipulate social institutions to cause 
the growth of desirable factors. 
Note also that there’s always someone bigger. The reason that cabals don’t 
all run on bullies who beat other mages into submission is that such bullies aren’t 
tolerated. If a Disciple decides that other people will do as he says or else, then 
it’s likely that an Adept (or even a rare Master) will take exception to his 
attitude. Spirits may also frown on him and refuse to cooperate. If several other 
mages find out, they’ll probably brand and ostracize him, and if he’s ever actually 
killed someone for refusing to follow his orders, then he may himself be killed. 
It is the Storyteller’s job to represent this balancing force, period. 
Players who say, “Well, other players should take care of all this policing in 
play,” are really saying, “I should be allowed to get away with whatever I want if 
the other people can’t catch me or don’t build twinky Trait-maximized characters 
to stop me.” Just as you, the Storyteller, represent all of the other factors and 
personalities of the World of Darkness, so too do you represent the forces of 
consequences and the mighty powers that keep dangerously maverick elements in 
balance. Sure, it’s desirable to have a self-policing player system, but that’s not 
always possible. Don’t hesitate to enforce the balance necessary to play. 
Policing of this sort applies to abuse of the Spheres too. For instance, if a 
player insists that he can use ritual Correspondence to extend the range of his 
magic and locate and kill every target he wants in the city, remind him gently 
that other Adepts and Masters of Correspondence will surely notice such a feat. 
Point out that they will probably intervene to discover what’s happening after 
a few such castings. In some cases, the character will discover to his dismay that 
his great plan is a threat to other, mightier mages, who show up to turn his magic 
awry or use his own methods against him. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CRCBSSCBVER 
HELL: ‘‘e 
CWRSE I C m  Turn A 
V ~ P I W  
I ~ C B  
A LWN 
CHAIR.” 
To some degree, when you throw together multiple games, like tossing in 
some Laws of the Night with Laws of Ascension, you get what you ask for. Each 
game has a distinct theme and story angle, so they’re not meant to be mixed 
together so much. Generally, one should take the fore, and if other supernatural 
creatures show up, they’re subplots and subordinate angles to the keystone game. 
But some people want to run crossover games anyway. 
As this writer has said before, you can do so if you want. You can also beat 
your game to death with a stick. 
There’s a lot of fun to be had in mixing the elements of the World of Darkness. 
Acknowledging the existence of other supernatural creatures makes for a more 
perilous game and a more precarious existence, especially since nobody knows 
who’s right and who’s wrong. It can also make your game a mess because different 
rules have different scales, power systems and the like. There’s not any way to make 
a “complete book of crossovers,” because there’s already so much going on in each 
separate game that it’s nigh-impossible to cover every combination. 
So, if you do decide to add multiple game elements together, it’s on your 
head. However, you can do a few things to minimize problems. First, and it may 
seem obvious, make sure that your power scales are the same. For instance, if you 
use old rules from Laws of the Hunt, you’ll discover that the power scales and 
health scales are different. Your people will be far too fragile unless you use the 
compressed scale (p. 119) for everyone. Second, watch out for Super Friends 
syndrome. Within five minutes of sticking two venues together, some enterpris- 
ing group will come up with a way for the two to have some sort of truce or peace 
treaty. You should be sure to enforce the reasons why various groups don’t get 
along. The Master mage betrays the vampires or the elder werewolf punishes the 
young upstarts who have the gall to treat defilers of holy sites as buddies. 
Don’t hesitate to step in directly. Third, consider having Narrators who 
specialize in each rule set. You may have a Narrator who knows vampires 
backward and forward, but who doesn’t quite grasp the intricacies of the Spheres. 
Have the vampire players come to that Narrator for questions, and have all of 
the crossover problems come to you. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ms in syncopation. 
“Any special plans?” Tiernan whispered. 
an feel it rearing down the natura 
“So what do we do?’ 
rhedusronrorheobjecr. Thed 
“Are you quire rhrough?” David aske 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Traditions came together out of conflict not only with each other, but 
with other supernatural entities - 
especially with those who espoused reason over 
randomness and stasis over creativity. Any mage who walks among the Awakened 
for long will learn quickly of the other beings that inhabit the World of Darkness. 
THE TECHNKRACY 
The Technocracy is chief among the adversaries of the Traditions. This 
order of philosopher-scientists originated from the paragons of reason in the 
Renaissance, but it evolved in the modem age into a loose global affiliation of 
financiers, scientists, doctors, researchers, explorers, engineers and bureaucrats. 
Now, all Technocrats are dedicated to the goal of removing the vestiges of 
dangerous randomness, chaos and terror from the world. 
Although the Technocracy started with a noble purpose, that purpose fell 
by the wayside as time marched on. The original founders of the Order of Reason 
intended to spare mankind the horrors of magical creatures, demons and 
superstitions by promoting repeatable technologies and gifts that everyone 
could use. Over the centuries, though, the Union came to espouse the ideas of 
control and order at any cost. The Technocracy initiated a Pogrom to seek out 
and destroy “dangerous, deviant, radical elements” like mages and mythical 
creatures, while taking a shadowy influence over humanity at the same time in 
an attempt to guide mankind to some scientific apotheosis. 
Five Conventions make up the Technocracy, and each one oversees a 
specific area of scientific endeavor. Unlike the Traditions, though, each 
Convention upholds the overall science and vision of the Union. The Conven- 
tion known as Iteration X, is a group that specializes in tool use, machine-man 
interface and engineering, and it manipulates Forces. The New World Order is 
a shadowy Convention of media representatives and political operatives who 
influence society using the Sphere of Mind. The Progenitors are doctors and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


medical technicians who pioneer cloning, genetic engineering and surgery 
through scientific applications of the Life Sphere. The Syndicate is a Conven- 
tion of financiers and enforcers who spread big business and the power of money 
by way of a refined sense of the Sphere of Entropy. The Void Engineers are hearty 
explorers who chart the Earth and the depths beyond in space and alternate 
dimensions through an enlightened understanding of Correspondence. 
Although Technocrats seem, on the surface, to be highly advanced scientists, 
they are actually Awakened mages. A Technocrat uses scientific methods and tools 
to achieve unbelievable results. However, few in the Union would ever pay credence 
to the notion. In their eyes, they are wholly different from their mystical adversaries. 
Technocratic operatives function much like mages, and they even use 
Spheres, but their foci and justifications for their Effects are always scientific in 
nature. Because of the strength of their Union, Technocrats can access high levels 
of Backgrounds and get their hands on advanced scientific equipment. In recent 
years, Technocrats have hunted Tradition mages with their terrifying coordina- 
tion and deductive skills, in order to exterminate them or reprogram them. 
In addition to Technocratic operatives, the Union employs a small number 
of high-tech constructs such as cyborgs or bioengineered creatures. These beings 
are generally Paradoxical by nature, so they suffer Backlashes whenever they 
perform some vulgar feat due to their enhancements. For instance, a cyborg that 
opens up its torso to reveal a hidden chain gun is likely to find itself suffering 
malfunctions because it has such a Paradoxical weapons system. However, such 
constructs can be eerie and deadly hunters when they pursue Tradition mages. 
(To build a HIT Mark cyborg or a similar construct, use normal character 
creation rules, then presume that the creation is modified to have permanent 
Life alterations to its Physical Traits, implanted heavy armor and perhaps even 
a technologically concealed miniature chain gun or similar weapon.) 
Fortunately for the Traditions, the Technocracy does not exercise com- 
plete control over human society. Rather, the Technocrats influence important 
political and economic decisions subtly, and they release their Enlightened 
Science to the Masses until it becomes an accepted (and non-Paradoxical) part 
of the everyday world. With the advent of the Reckoning, however, even the 
Technocrats have found themselves out of touch with their former leaders. 
Young Technocrats exhibit a range of personality archetypes from dire villains 
who seek to stamp out all traces of mysticism and individuality, to lone heroes 
hoping to empower humanity and make the world safe. 
You can build a Technocrat character like any other mage (including Spheres 
and Arete), but the character should not conceive of the mutable nature of reality ;1: 
like a Tradition mage does. A Technocrat doesn't do magic, he performs advanced 
9 1  
procedures and applies Enlightened Science. Technocrats have different cosmetic 
terminology for many of their devices, procedures and Backgrounds, but they ' 
function game mechanically much like the mages of the Traditions. 
-. 
~ 
r€IARAmRs 
While most mages dance on the edge of creativity and inspiration, a few tumble 
over the precipice into wild chaos. Be it from some damage to the Avatar, a mystical 
curse that strikes the Awakened or a severe Quiet that causes these mages to lose 
control, none can say with certainty. Regardless, some mages simply cannot deal ' i!. 
,. 1 
.* 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


with the magical world on even footing. They see monsters and mythical creations 
everywhere, and they inflict their madness anddynamismon the world without even 
really trying. These dangerous willworkers are called Marauders. 
Marauders come in as many varieties as other mages. Indeed, it’s even 
possible for a normal mage to become a Marauder, although nobody truly 
understands the circumstances that might cause such a change. A Marauder 
might seem like a totally normal and competent magician, only to reveal his 
insanity a day later. Some Marauders slide through multiple personalities and 
magical styles, while a few are stable and rational, and they would like nothing 
more than to be free of the chaotic weirdness that their broken Avatars subject 
them to. Some are completely unable to deal coherently with the real world, and 
they retreat to the Umbra instead. 
A Marauder may have all the powers of a typical mage, and it’s rumored that 
there may even be Marauder Oracles. However, every Marauder exists more or 
less in a permanent state of Quiet (see p. 174), and every Marauder has a 
permanent Quiet rating that reflects how deeply afflicted he is. What makes 
Marauders dangerous and powerful is the fact that they ignore any Paradox 
Traits they should accumulate from any magic use up to the level of their Quiet 
rating. For instance, a Marauder with a permanent Quiet of one ignores the first 
Trait of Paradox from any and every Effect he creates. Marauders with a 
permanent Quiet rating over five retreat to the Umbra, to represent the fact that 
they have become incapable of dealing coherently with the real world. 
NEPHANDI 
The dark mirror of Ascension is the dream of the Nephandi. Each Nephandus is a 
mage who perverts his Avatar and soul (if the two are truly sepamte things) in a sacrifice 
to dark powers. In return, the mage becomes an agent of primordial destructive forces. 
Few foes terrify and galvanize mages as much as the Nephandi. In the past, 
Technocrats and Traditionalists have even worked side-by-side to fight Nephandi 
menaces. The Nephandi not only wield strange perversions of the Spheres 
(called Qlipphothic magic), but they give up their senses of conventional 
morality and Ascension in order to serve the whims of great, malevolent entities 
that predate mankind. Perhaps foremost on many a mage’s thoughts, though, is 
the realization that any mage can Fall and take the dark path of the Nephandi. 
For their part, experienced Nephandi entice nake or embittered mages with 
promises of great power and a unity of vision with all who have Fallen before. Of 
course their way is right, they claim. They follow the wisdom of creatures that were 
ancient before mankind even existed. Ofcourse the cosmos should end. All things 
must, and it’s only natural that the Nephandi serve as agents to nurse it at its 
bedside until its demise. Of course there’s nothing wrong with demons and utter 
darkness and death. They’ve all been around forever, so they must be part of the 
right and proper cycle of existence. Of course the Nephandi have everyone’s real 
and true best interests at heart, even if nobody realizes it. 
The Nephandi come in many grades. Some young and foolish infernalists 
sell their potential to the outer primordial gods early, then find themselves 
trapped in a cycle of destructiveness and servitude. Many of these Nephandi 
revel in their power without consequences, and they becoming simple agents of 
destruction and vice. The old and truly “enlightened” Nephandi, though, have 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


a deeper goal. They seek Descent, the destruction of the world and the return 
of the imperfect universe to the unformed void that predated the flaw of 
creation. To this end, the Nephandi seduce, suborn, manipulate and influence 
both mages and mortals in the name of reaching this goal. 
The oldestNephandi exist for centuries or millennia, plotting to turn society into 
a self-destructive morass of quashed hope and shattered idealism in order to showcase 
and encourage their nihilistic vision. Such tempters may be subtle enough to escape 
notice for generations. Even if they are caught, they may simply vanish into the deeps 
of the Umbra for a time, only to re-emerge later when they will not be recognized. 
Fortunately for humanity, Nephandi are both few in number and rare on 
Earth. The most common Earth-bound Nephandi are self-destructive, and they 
tend to bum themselves out quickly, taking as much as possible with them. The 
remainder usually resides out in twisted Umbral Realms or even in the deeps of 
the Underworld, where they can ponder the mysteries of destruction and 
entropy or spread their malevolent influence subtly to other willworkers. 
Nephandi serve a variety of dark overlords, and they draw their powers from 
this servitude. Some Nephandi receive infernal taints that function as Paradox- 
free capabilities equivalent to a single rote. In order to use these powers the 
Nephandus must usually fulfill some pact, such as sacrificing 12 innocents at every 
new moon. Others answer directly to the slumbering primordial things that hail 
from the very creation of the universe. These Nephandi use Qlipphothic versions 
of the regular Spheres. Nephandi generally have Traits equivalent to other mages, 
although their magic always carries a Qlipphothic Resonance regardless of the 
intent behind the Effect. Many subtle Nephandi take pains to conceal their 
Resonance or rely as little as possible on magic when they are around other mages. 
Not everyone who practices magic is Awakened. Through the minor 
powers inherent in specific practices, tools, spirits and chants, some people 
discover the means to unlock the hidden mystic energies that survive even in the 
modem World of Darkness. These sorcerers lack the flexibility and scope of 
Awakened mages, but they are no less than their enlightened cousins - 
both 
perform magic in a world that would not deign to believe in it. 
Sorcerers often serve in the Traditions alongside their Awakened cousins. 
Indeed, some go on to Awaken as well and learn the ways of more flexible, dynamic 
magic, while others continue to practice more static paths. Few mages really see 
any difference between the two anyway. Anyone who practices magic is a 
magician, after all, and every magician is an asset in the wake of the Reckoning. 
Therefore, sorcerers are no less viable as students of the occult than their 
Awakened counterparts, despite having a somewhat limited approach to magic. 
Typically, a sorcerer masters one or two rigid forms of magical power 
through long study and sacrifice. This magic resembles some Traditional (or 
even Technocratic) form - 
a sorcerer might use prayer, spirit invocation, 
chants and gestures or even technological tools - 
and indeed, the foci of many 
Traditions match the practices that still hold power for sorcerers. Sorcerers 
develop certain repeatable skills (not unlike rotes), but the difference is that the 
sorcerer does not have the Awakened ability to reshape the Tellurian around his 
whims. Rather, the sorcerer knows a few threads to pull in order to make the 
..-*- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Tapestry react. A sorcerer can rely on only the magic that remains in the world 
in static forms, not create new and spectacular feats to blaze a visionary trail. 
A sorcerer character is essentially a human being with a certain limited 
understanding of magic. See Laws of the Hunt for more information about such 
characters. A sorcerer has 6/4/3 Attribute Traits, 3 Ability Traits and 3 Back- 
grounds, plus 7 Free Traits and 5 levels of various magical Paths. A sorcerous Path 
often resembles a limited application of one Sphere. For instance, a sorcerer could 
study separate Paths to create fire, manipulate kinetic energy or control light, 
while an Awakened mage can do all the same and more with Forces. 
BYGCBNES 
Faerie tales and myths regale us with stories of unicorns, dragons and griffins, 
and most people consider these tales nothing more than pleasant or frightening 
flights of fancy. Mages know better, however. Such creatures did and do exist, 
although they are rarer now in the modern age than in their ancient heyday. Because 
they have long since vanished from Earth to reside in far.off Realms or hidden 
comers of the world where nobody visits, these beasts are commonly called Bygones. 
While vampires, shapeshifters and similar creatures remain hidden among the 
masses of humanity (perhaps because they so strongly resemble humans), Bygones 
find the stifling weight of reality disorienting and disabling. Many wither and die 
under the combined fdrces of Paradox and Unbelief. Still, a mage might summon 
such a creature from the depths of the Umbra for a limited time. Such conjurations 
are difficult to perform, but they can certainly throw an adversary for a loop. 
Bygones come in as many forms as there are legends that spawned them, and 
a Bygone can have whatever Traits someone might expect of it. There are 
unicorns with horns that heal by touch, dragons that breathe gouts of flame, 
griffins that fly and sphinxes that whisper mysterious riddles. A sphinx might 
have strong Attributes and a great deal of the Enigmas Ability, while a dragon's 
magic and skills would best all but the most heroic ofhumans. A Bygone's powers 
are innate, and they usually don't cause Paradox, but the existence of the Bygone 
itself is Paradoxical on Earth. Bygones suffer damage slowly (about a level a day) 
unless they have magical energy to offset this decay and strengthen their 
Patterns. For this reason, the few Bygones that do stay on Earth usually lair in 
Nodes or other places where they can find Quintessence easily. 
Some Bygones arise as expressions of urban legends as well. Things like the 
chupacabra and the dead man with the hook for a hand have their place in dark 
i. pi comers of secluded wilderness or decrepit city areas. 
HUNTERS 
t 
Although they are uncommon, some few humans see a threat in the 
supernatural and decide to take upon themselves the burden of protecting 
humanity from it. Because of the subtlety of coincidental magic, most careful 
mages have little to fear from such zealots, but the occasional blast of vulgar 
magic might attract the attention of just the wrong sort of person. 
Hunters come in many varieties. The least dangerous or organized are 
usually those individuals who have a wrenching, traumatic experience with the 
supernatural and take up the job. Religious groups and government agencies that 
R
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


organize and train specifically to deal with paranormal situations are on the 
other end of the spectrum. A few hunters learn to use strange powers of their 
own, studying sorcery or the like to combat the perceived evils of the supernatu- 
ral. Most simply rely on their wits and whatever tools are at hand. 
Lone, disorganized hunters are rarely much of a threat. Such individuals might be 
vindictive crusaders, obsessed stalkers or maybe victims who want revenge on the 
creatures thatwrongedthem. These hunterscome fromany jobsandbackgrounds. The 
person caught in a mage’s vulgar blast of fire or who witnesses the summoning of a spirit 
might well become a hunter, seeking out the mage to destroy him.. . or study him. 
The most fearsome hunter group is probably the Inquisition. Although no 
church condones these zealots’ behavior officially, small splinter factions of 
various religious groups receive covert funding and training specifically to destroy 
“heretics.” For most Inquisitors, the prime targets are vampires, demons and other 
creatures of darkness. Some, however, consider magic to be evil, or they take 
umbrage at the beliefs of groups like the Celestial Chorus and Akashic Brother- 
hood. Inquisitors range from fresh-faced young priests to hardened mercenaries. 
All carry weapons supplied by their church orders when they go on the hunt, and 
a few are even full-time professionals. Most disturbingly, a disproportionate 
number of Inquisitors display True Faith and its concomitant resistance to magic. 
The most scholarly hunters make up a secretive organization known as the 
Arcanum, which is dedicated to the collection of occult knowledge. Quite a few 
Arcanum scholars are also sorcerers, although there have been no Arcanum 
members to date who are also Traditionalists. The Arcanum rarely seems directly 
dangerous. Members catalog and classify information, and they may even be 
inclined to trade useful information with mages. However, many have strong 
opinions on how magic should work, and they may cause problems for mages who 
don’t adhere to those opinions. Thankfully, Arcanum members are charged only 
to watch, not to interfere, so they almost never pose a physical threat. 
In various government agencies, the Technocracy has fostered special project 
groups to deal with supernatural occurrences. Such groups come under a great deal 
of scrutiny, but they also gather quite a bit of backing as long as they’re in favor. 
One ritual murder or camera-caught vulgar display of magic can mobilize the FBI’s 
Special Affairs Division rapidly, and it can bring to bear all the weight of anational 
government. A few government hunter agencies such as Japan’s Strike Force Zero 
even bring minor cybernetics or cutting-edge weapons to bear when they hunt. 
These government-sponsored hunters often have inaccurate information, but 
this can make them all the more dangerous. An agent who believes that all mages 
have some sort of mystical defense shield is likely to employ very heavy force. 
Lastly, a new class of hunters has recently risen to prominence. Since the 
‘1 
beginning of the Avatar Storm and the events of the Reckoning, some humans 
have displayed heretofore unknown supernatural powers and abilities to hunt ‘ 
down other beings. Some mages argued at first that these humans were untrained 
Orphans or humans who had been possessed by spirits. Time, however, has 
shown that these Imbued hunters have a specific range of capabilities, as if some 
force had suddenly chosen all of them deliberately for a mission of hunting. 
The Imbued usually have the power to see through illusions and recognize 
supernatural beings for what they are. Even those who don’t understand what 
mages are know that something separates willworkers from the rest of humanity. 
= 
1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


While these hunters do also stock up on weapons and tools for their inspired 
mission, most also have asmall array of paranormal Paradox-free powers. They can 
do anything from healing rapidly to conjuring flame around weapons to halting 
others in their tracks with a simple spoken phrase. Imbued hunters who survive for 
a while, however, become more and more likely to go insane. Eventually the hunt 
consumes them until they can no longer function as normal people. 
See Laws of the Hunt for creation rules of hunter characters. Most will be 
normal humans, with 6/4/3 Attributes, 3 Abilities, 3 Backgrounds and 7 Free Traits. 
THE U N W  
Even though the Technocracy holds to the conceit that it shapes human 
destiny and the Traditions argue that they're the last bastion of mysticism in a 
world gone mad, neither one is entirely correct. Other beings do hide among 
humanity and influence the course of mankind. Chief among these beings are 
the undead, those who exist for millennia and see humanity itself as prey or a 
plaything for amusement and personal gain - 
vampires. 
Magesandvampires havecoexisted-and 
inmany cases fought-since 
time 
immemorial. The willworkers often protect or advance humanity, whether out of 
altruism or self-interest. Conversely, vampires must feed from humans, and they 
encourage stasis so as to keep the world familiar. The two lifestyles aren't 
irreconcilable, but they are usually at odds. Most mages quickly recognize vampires 
for the bloodsucking predators they are and avoid them. Vampires often see mages 
as dangerously powerful and either stay away or try to manipulate them. 
A vampire survives by feeding on the blood of the living. Some rare ones 
subsist on animal blood, but human prey is more substantive. The vampire must 
often indulge in all manner of monstrosity to feed this hunger. Since a vampire 
is an ambulatory corpse, though, it derives no pleasure or sustenance from food, 
sex or the like. Only blood and the intellectual satisfactions of social maneuver- 
ing and vendettas give the undead any gratification. Emotion and hope die when 
th"e vampire becomes what it is, and all that's left is a paranoid predator that fears 
its own kind or its death at the hands of humans. 
However, most vampires still seek out peers to fill their otherwise hollow 
existence. As a result, they often come across as sensual, charismatic or charming, 
but this appearance is only a thin veneer. Scratch the surface and only a monster 
lies beneath. A few vampires try to hang on to their human consciences, but the 
uhcontrollable hungers to which they are heir cause this humanity to drop away 
with the years. The eldest vampires are little more than amoral cannibals. 
Vampires are most important to mages because of the historical Massasa 
War and the fact that one early House of the Order of Hermes turned to 
vampirism during the Dark Ages. What happened to the mages of this House 
remains shrouded in mystery, however, because the newly undead magicians hid 
themselves among the society of the vampires. A century of warfare between the 
Order and that betrayer House resulted only in many casualties on both sides, 
leaving mages with little understanding of how vampirism actually works. The 
I 
most prominent fact that the survivors took away from that war is the horrifying 
revelation that any mage could become avampire. All avampire has to do to pass 
I e on his curse is drain a person entirely of blood then feed the corpse some of its 
a s &  
I ,  I a undead blood. In a matter of minutes, the recently deceased person will have 
: 
I - , *  
8
.
 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


become one of the undead himself. Mages who know of the undead fear this fate, 
for the curse of vampirism destroys the Avatar and with it any ability to work 
Awakened magic. 
Complete rules for vampires appear in Laws of the Night. For your games, 
you can assume the following: 
A vampire uses Blood Traits to fuel its mystical powers and to remain 
animate. The vampire takes this blood by biting mortals (which causes a sort of 
supernatural ecstasy so that the subject doesn’t resist) and drinking their blood. 
A Blood Trait can be used to activate a vampire power, to gain a Physical Trait 
for a scene or to heal a health level of non-aggravated damage. 
Since they’re essentially nothing more than dead bodies, bashing damage has 
little effect on vampires. Furthermore, vampires suffer only bashing damage from 
bullets. They heal two health levelsofbashing damage withone BlccdTrait. Vampires 
don’t age, and theyrarely sufferfromdiseaseorpoison. Ifthey arescarredor cosmetically 
altered one evening, they change back the next night when they rise from slumber. 
Avampire usually has asmall a m y  ofsupernatural powers. Some can command 
others or influence emotions, much like they’re using a Mind Effect. Others can grow 
clawsor call upon phenomenal strength, as if they had used aLife Effect. Assign a young 
vampire three rotes; each rote costs one Blood Trait to use. Vampires don’t understand 
or have access to the Spheres, though. Their powers stem from their cursed blood. 
If a wooden stake penetrates a vampire’s heart, the unfortunate monster 
is paralyzed. An attacker can try to stake the vampire deliberately with a 
sharpened chunk of wood or a spear by winning or tying two Simple Tests after 
a hit. If the attacker succeeds on both tests, the vampire cannot move or use its 
powers until the offending weapon is removed. 
Vampires cannot function during the day. Sunlight burns them, and the 
arrival of the day itself makes them extremely drowsy. As a general rule, vampires 
sleep all day unless they find themselves under extreme duress. If they are 
exposed to sunlight, the vampire takes an aggravated level of damage every turn. 
Vampires can turn human beings into their servitors. A vampire simply 
feeds a living human a bit of its blood, which grants the person some of the 
vampire’s power as well. These subjects are called ghouls, and they are usually 
fanatically loyal to their masters. Anyone who drinks the blood of a specific 
vampire three times finds himself mystically compelled to love that creature. A 
ghoul can refresh its Strength-based Physical Traits once per day at no cost, and 
it doesn’t age as long as it receives vampire blood once per month. 
Since a vampire is a corpse, any spell designed to alter its Pattern must 
include Matter as well as Life. 
THE 
CHANGING 
BREEDS 
Be they stories of the loup-garou of Europe, the nine-tailed foxes of Japan or the 
coyote shifters of Native America, tales of men who change into animals (or vice- 
versa) are ubiquitous throughout the world. In the World of Darkness, such creatures 
live among humanity and animals alike. They are children of nature and students 
of spirit, but they are also warriors with fearsome animal prowess and predatory 
instincts. They are dangerously wild creatures that protect the dwindling natural 
spaces fervently and possess myriad powers that they inherited from spirits. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Mages know little of the shapeshifters, since dealing with them often proves 
dangerous. Many shapeshifters consider mages to be arrogant and treacherous, and 
they attack as soon as they identify a willworker. Even those inclined to speak rather 
than do battle tend to treat mages with great suspicion. For their part, the mages with 
the most contact withshapeshifters are those who work outside the cities. Verbena and 
Dreamspeakers in particular have long-standing ties with the shifters, and those mages 
who travel the Umbra mention that shapeshifters go into the spirit worlds as well. 
Shapeshifters appear to have their own sub-culture, even though many of 
them coexist with humans. Many seem to venerate the forces of nature 
religiously and practice some form of shamanism or ancestor-worship. Natural 
spirits do communicate with the shifters and treat them favorably. Shapeshifters 
often have both human and animal relatives. Apparently, their families extend 
into both groups, and some shapeshifters clearly stem more from an animal 
heritage than from a human one. (Those who do have difficulties with human 
languages, and they have a hard time understanding and using technology.) 
TnemostknowledgeableDreamspkerslndicatethat 
althoughtherarewerewolves 
seem to predominate among shapeshifters, other types of animal shifters also exist, 
includingwildcats, coyotesandravens. Regardless of its breed, eachshapeshiftercan take 
on several forms ranging from human to animal to mixed forms in-between, and they all 
have various gifts that mimic the Charms of spirits. In their hybrid forms, they temfy 
normal humans, and they have phenomenal battle capabilities. 
Mages who stumble accidentally into the wrong parts of the wilderness may 
run afoul of hostile shapeshifters. The shifters protect their territory religiously, 
and they consider their holy sites too sacred for normal humans to profane with 
their presence. The shifters venerate these natural Nodes, and drive out any 
mages who would seek their power. 
See Laws of the Wild for more complete information regarding shapeshifters. 
For your games, you can assume the following: 
A shapeshifter has three forms: A human form, an animal form and a 
hybrid battle-form. In battle form, the shifter doubles its normal human Physical 
, Traits. In animal form, the creature has superhuman senses that are equivalent 
to the enhanced perceptions of Apprentice-level Life magic. Changing forms 
requires one turn. In its battle form, the shifter terrifies normal humans. People 
flee automatically, and they try to blank out or forget about the experience. 
Shapeshifters heal rapidly. A shifter heals one health level of non-aggravated 
damage every single turn. However, silver causes aggravated damage to them. 
A shapeshlfter can move quickly enough to take two actions per turn in combat. 
A shifter can use various spiritual Gifts to perform magical feats. Give 
each shifter the equivalent of any three Apprentice-, Initiate- or Disciple-level 
rotes. Older shifters, or those who are shamans and students of the occult, will 
have more. Gnosis, the shifter’s spiritual wisdom, powers these Gifts. Young 
shifters may have one to three Gnosis Traits; old, wise shifters have up to 10. 
Shapeshifters can step physically into the Umbra by spending a turn 
’ ‘ 
~ 
looking into a reflective surface. They can then peek back out by concentrating, 
I ’ and they may step out of any reflective surface back to the material world. They 
’ e don’t suffer from the effects of the Avatar Storm when they cross the Gauntlet, 
I ’* but they don’t often go to the same Umbral places that mages frequent. 
~ 
~ 
‘ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Since shapeshifters are creatures of spirit rather than just animals and 
humans, any magic that would alter ashifter’s Pattern must use Spirit as well as Life. 
THE 
RESTLESS 
D m  
Euthanatos have long known that the cycle of life doesn’t always let go of 
a soul easily. Even since before Orpheus’ legendary journey into the Under- 
world, people have seen ghosts and haunts, venerated their ancestors and dwelt 
on the questions of existence after death. Mages know that life after death is not 
just speculation - 
in the World of Darkness, it’s often a fact. 
Not every person who dies becomes a ghost, but for those with great passion, a need 
to complete something or an overwhelming drive to survive, death may not be an end. 
These wraiths inhabit the Underworld or Dark Umbra, a spiritual place of death and 
decay. They pursue their leftover ambitions there, often looking in on the mortal world 
or sometimes even seeking a new lease on the life they left behind. Attached by need to 
oldplacesorpeople, thesehauntingmemoriessometimes intersectwithlost pasions and 
occasionally even manifest to experience a moment of life-indeath. 
Places like graveyards and abandoned old houses tend to attract ghosts, 
because the Gauntlet between living and dead is difficult to cross. Few ghosts 
have the power to manifest in the physical world, so they often hang around in 
places where death is strong and the barriers are thin. The Reckoning has blown 
great spiritual storms across the Underworld, and places of sanctuary are rare. 
Now, wraiths congregate in the few safe havens left for their kind. 
Old ghosts often retreat into the depths of the deadlands where they find 
islands of memory, places that never were and storms that rage over a dark ocean 
of death. A mage might traipse into these lands once or twice, but traveling the 
paths of the dead is a heroically foolish journey that is fraught with peril. Perhaps 
the dead are best left to their own devices.. . . Certainly the mages who deal with 
them often commonly learn to regret it. 
For more information about wraiths, see Oblivion. For your games, you can 
assume the following: 
Wraiths are typically immaterial. They exist in the Dark Umbra, which 
reflects the memories of the material world in a dead, decaying state, and it hides 
others beyond. Wraiths usually can’t touch the material world without effort, 
but they are also immune to most physical attacks. 
A wraith‘s power stems from Pathos, the emotional strength of its 
memories. Wraiths are drawn to events that mirror their strongest desires, and 
they gain Pathos from them. 
Wraiths can perform tricks in the material world such as creating sudden 
chills, making walls drip blood, creating haunting voices, possessing living beings 
and even materializing briefly. Performing these tricks requires the use of a Pathos 
Trait, and they function similar to Mind possession or hallucination Effects. 
Even if a wraith is damaged with Spirit magic or physical attacks while it 
is materialized, it can only be banished at most. Only aggravated damage (say, 
from spiritual fire or Prime-based attacks) will destroy a wraith permanently. 
Otherwise, the ghost may be banished for a month, but it will return eventually. 
Wraiths have Traits and health levels like other characters, although they 
usually can’t use their Physical Traits except against each other or against mages 
1 ‘r’: 
I 
1, 
I’ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


foolish enough to enter the Dark Umbra. A wraith suffers no penalties for injury, 
and it can heal one level of non-aggravated damage with a Pathos Trait. 
Since they’re ghosts, wraiths can only be affected by magic that includes 
Spirit, unless they manifest physically or the mage goes to the Underworld. 
THE FAE 
Modern fairy tales tell about shining knights and floating castles, faerie 
princesses and wicked goblins. However, older stories of the Fair Folk make them 
out to be creatures that play malicious games with humanity, steal away children 
and devour them or ruin crops and kingdoms for their own entertainment. As 
it happens, the latter tales are closer to the truth. Although the days of faerie 
kingdoms are long gone, much like the ancient times of powerful magician-lords 
and philosopher-kings, some remnants of the fae remain behind. Clothed in 
human flesh, and given only vague hints as to their true nature, these mortal 
descendants of the fae are called changelings. 
Changelings resemble humans upon casual inspection. Indeed, they’re indis- 
tinguishable from most people. It’s the presence of the faerie soul that makes the 
difference. To others of its kind, a changeling’s true faerie nature -be 
it a blue- 
skinned troll, a gorgeous noble or a twisted monster that lurks in shadow - 
is 
apparent. Indeed, changelings seem to carry with them a whole host of imaginary, 
dream-like creations, from invisible pets to intangible swords that only they can see. 
Most changelings seem content to exist in their fantasy world and balance 
it with the needs of their normal human lives. They sponsor endeavors of art, 
creativity and imagination, because dreams fuel and fire them. Changelings 
often exhibit a host of natural powers or magical illusions that are related to 
trickery, travel and illusion. 
Mages find changelings a difficult lot to deal with. While the two groups are 
not inherently hostile toward one another, the changelings are protected by a 
phenomenon known as the Mists. Those who experience faerie enchantments 
tend to forget them later, which has given rise to the stories of people who have 
been captured by changelings and who disappeared for 10 years, only to return 
unaged with little more than hazy memories of a few nights’ revels. Even mages 
are subject to this phenomenon. A mage who is enchanted to experience the 
mass-dream of changelings often forgets much of it once the enchantment ends. 
Only those with the presence of mind to write down their experiences have a 
chance at remembering and deciphering the strange ways of the fae. 
See The Shining Host for more about changelings. For now, you can assume: 
A changeling seems perfectly normal and human, but it actually has a 
dream-like faerie form that only those who have been enchanted with fae power 
or who are using highly specialized magic can perceive. This “fae seeming” shows 
the changeling’s true nature. 
Changelings crave Glamour, the energy of raw imagination, creativity 
and wonder. This energy flows freely from artists and craftsmen, so many 
changelings frequently patronize them. 
A changeling usually has several faerie powers relating to illusions, befuddling 
the senses or moving about quickly. Treat these powers as Disciple-level Mind or 
Correspondence Effects. Each use of such a power costs one Glamour Trait. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Changelings have Traits and health just like regular human beings. However, 
their dream-weapns inflict a sort of imaginary damage on one another that is just as 
effective on other changelings as real weapons are on normal humans. Normal people 
can neither see nor feel such imaginary weapons, but a changeling who is “killed” by 
such a weapon falls into a coma and forgets that he is actually a changeling. 
Cold iron - 
raw, unalloyed, unworked iron - 
inflicts extreme pain and 
aggravated wounds on a changeling. If a changeling is killed by a cold iron 
weapon (often, a crudely worked and ugly thing, that lacks any Glamour), his 
soul is snuffed forever. 
In some circumstances, changelings can actually step into imaginary 
dream-worlds, and disappear from the material world. Doing so isn’t exactly the 
same as entering the Umbra, and changelings who “walk the Dreaming” are 
difficult to follow. They can take paths to many places and to many fantastic 
imaginary locations, though. 
A changeling suffers when exposed to boredom, stark rationality and the 
absence of creative, imaginative energy. Technocrats in particular cause this 
pain to the fae, but excessively regimented, boring, static individuals of any sort 
can do so as well. 
Changelings can use Glamour to enchant someone briefly, causing that 
person to see the fae dreamworld and true forms. To do so, the changeling must 
spend a Trait of Glamour and either touch the intended victim or give the person 
a gift. The person experiences the changeling world for a scene or hour. At the end __ 
of this time, the Mists wipe away memories, leaving only hazy recollections. 
E 
Changelings protect special strongholds called freeholds where they can 
step into fantasy spaces that adjoin locations in the real world. They collect 
natural Glamour in freeholds, and they do not age while they remain inside. 
Working magic on changelings is pretty much like working magic on humans, 
unless the mage wants to affect the imaginary changeling world. Doing so requires 
Mind and Spirit as well. Plus, most mages will never be able to study changelings well 
enough to figure out a way to affect the dreamworld because of the Mists. 
‘, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CHANGING 
BREEDS 26F 
ATINBUR LI~~IITATICBNS 
I 2 3  
~“TALTRAI‘TS 
92 
PHYSICALTRPSTS 
88 
SKIALTRAITS 
9 0  
Nmm€ I“TAL 
TMS 
93 
N-TIVE 
PHYSICAL TRAIT’S 89 
< BACKGRWNDS I02 
CHALLENGES 
I82 
CCBI”LICATICBNS 
I84 
~ N U S T W S  I88 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CHALLENGE 
SPEEDS I83 
QRDER @F CHALLENGES 
I88 
~~VWIDDING 18s 
R E L E ~ G  
187 
SI~PLE 
TESTS I86 
SAnC CHALLENGES 18s 
IN~ALBID I83 
RCECK+V~R~CISSCBRS 
I84 
USINGTWS I82 
mCBB SCENE I88 
ADVANTAGES 39 
ASSIGNING SPECIALTY SPHEMS F? 
CHWSINGABmB 3? 
CHWSING BACKGRWNDS 80 
CHmSING ATTRIBUTB 38 
A ~ W € . S  
78 
INSPIRATICBN 74 
-- 
CHWSINGTRAES 38 
AvATAR@S€NC€ 37 
NAlU?EANDDEIll€ANC3R 73 
LA.STT€DUCHES 80 
ARETETRAES 
80 
DERAN~ENTS 
82 
F m T m  82 
N ~ W E T R P S ~ S  
81 
R~NANCETRAES 
81 
CHWSING SPHERfS 83 
: 
WILLP@WERTWS 81 
C€BINCIDENTAL rb,GIC 129 
SPARK a= 
LIFE 83 
- I  
CCBINCIDENCE 
RULE w T H U ~ B  
I30 
CCBNSENSUS 
CCBINCIDENCE 
I30 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


WDCBNING 
%I 
IF8 
S ~ L E % I  IF8 
UNIQUE AND SPECIALTY %I 
I77 
SURPASSING A %US 
I38 
AGGRAVATED 
WWNLIS 
I92 
BASHING/'LWL DA~~AGE 
I91 
RECCDV~YT~ES 
I92 
rnflAPHYSIC a= 
mAGIC I3 
NARRAT~RS 11, 249 
AVATARGUIDE 2S0 
5 
PmxTUDGe 2s0 
1 
SPIRIT KEEPER 218, 250 
NGATWETRAITS I21 
BACKWH I74 
P W X F L A W S  E 
P m X m L m S  IF4 
P W % S P I R r r S  IF4 
: PARWCBXACCU~ULATI~N 
I76 
>
-
 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


STAVING W DISASTER 
IF6 
C@PINGWlTH@Uff F6 
H@BG@BLINS IF6 
REPUTATICBN 213 
GRADESWSUCC~~~ 
143 
L;EARMNG AND USING 
R@TB I41 
Ih~1c.u 
A'ITACKS 
I42 
S
~
L
E
 
R@T@ AND W c r s  I69 
mGICAL REACH I42 
RULEC+SHADE 3 0  
- .(.- 
~ 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CHR@NICLES, sT@NES, %SSI@NS AND SCENES I89 
C~NFLICTS 
I89 
D@wmm~ 
190, 2SI 
TRW~CDNS 
IF, 28 
WHIG BR@THEWGXBD 32 
C E L E S ~ L  
CH@RUS 36 
C u ~ ~ w f c n m  
40 
DREA~SWW 
44 
funww,~@s 48 
€B~%wHm!3 
S2 
S@NS@F@I-I?3 S6 
TRADTIKBN 
Pwmcs 210 
VIRTUALADEPTS 
64 
T R U E F ~  
206 
AVATARS”@RITI 
16s 
DEEPUmBRA 222 
Vuw& ~ A G I C  
I29 
, WILLPCDWER 
IF 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6
