1
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


I 
Here you’ll find supplemental material for Laws of 
cension, covering such topics as creating Technocracy 
:haracters and chronicles, traveling the Umbral byways, 
?ghting the wiles of mythic creatures and dealing with the 
lost Dis arate magical orders. Plus, a ton of new rotes and 
live-action Mage games. 
iome a B ditional rules options to expand the potential of 
13BN I-36640-310-U 
w w w w h i T E  - w o l  F.coM 
C A H t  S i U U l O  
WW5033 $17.95 U.S. 
5 1 7 9 5  
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Little sound rattled through the Technocratic construct, other 
than the sussurations of the air conditioning. Deep in the ducts, 
something made an intermittent thumping. 
“Seems like nothing works right these days,” murmured Agent 
Graham. Pressing his identity card against the sealed door, he submitted 
to the quick DNA scan - 
none of this blood-drawing nonsense; the 
dead skin cells from his finger would suffice - 
and entered a moment 
later when the door whisked open. 
“Any leads?” Graham barked with a stern, authoritarian voice. The 
woman in the doctor’s coat barely turned her head; she looked tired and 
resigned. Quite unlike the Academy cadets who jumped at anything. 
Probably already used to the authority, Graham thought. 
After a protracted sigh, the woman placed her stylus on her 
workbench and stood up. She unceremoniously shoved her hands into 
her coat pockets. “A few. Nothing major. A little bit of skin sampling, 
some extrapolation, protease matching, the usual. Three people, maybe 
with some friends that they didn’t bring.” 
Graham peered over his sunglasses quizzically. “That’s all?” he 
murmured quietly. His body language and voice inflection carried more 
to the question, though: Curiosity about those “friends”, uncertainty 
over the techniques used, possibility of contamination. 
“I’m sure. For now,” the woman muttered. “No mistake. No 
attempts to stymie a trace or investigation. Almost as if they didn’t care 
- 
or had bigger problems to worry about.” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Graham nodded once to himself. His hand twitched slightly, 
carrying the subtext of That’s it, we’redone. The woman just noddedand 
turned back to her work. 
Slipping back outside the lab, Graham headed to his gray mid-size 
car. Black sedans had been out for the better part of a year, and he was 
starting to prefer the better handling of the smaller vehicles. Checking 
his sidearm once, he paused to flip through the paperwork left on his 
seat. Even if he did track down the mysterious three who’d left their 
genetic fingerprints all over the agency’s toys, what then? Arrest? 
Incarcerate them where? Shoot? The paperwork and the reports and the 
psych evals would have him tied up for months, keeping him from 
staying on the streets and doing good work. 
Some days, Graham hated the bureaucracy. Then he remembered 
that it was the only thing that kept society functioning. Better the devil 
you know, he thought for a moment, and then started the car. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CREDITS 
Authors: Mike Boaz, Scott Taylor and Jess Heinig 
Additional Material: Ian Dunteman and Martin Hackleman 
Development: Jess Heinig 
Editing: Cynthia Summers 
Art Direction: Aaron Voss 
Interior Art: Laura Robles 
Layout and Typesetting: Eric Ross 
735PARKNoRTHBLYD. 
I SUITE 128 
0 2002 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. Reproduction without 
CLARKSTON, GA 30021 the wiitten permission-of the publisher is 
USA 
expressly forbidden, except for the 
purposes of reviews, and for blank 
character sheets, which may be repro- 
duced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the 
rade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, Hunter the 
ing, World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks 
e Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the 
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, 
Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the 
Great War, Trinity, Laws of Ascension Companion, Guide to the 
Traditions, Guide to the Technocracy, The Bitter Road, Digital Web 
2.0 and Dead Magic are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text her 
copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 
The mention of or reference to any company or prod 
ages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. 
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and 
hemes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and 
content. Reader discretion is advised. 
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. 
Check out White Wolf online at 
http://www.white-wolf.com;alt.games.whitewolf 
and 
PRINTED IN USA. 
tended for entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature 
rec.games.frp.storytel1er 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Chances are, if you're reading this, you already have your copy of 
Laws of Ascension and you may have even run a game or two. You're 
probably champing at the bit for ways to expand your chronicle, or 
scratching your head over some rules that didn't quite click for you. In 
short, that's what this book is for: Everything you wanted to know about 
live-action Mage that couldn't fit in the first book. 
Again, since there's no telling how you run your game and what 
works for your troupe, many parts of this book contain optional rules 
and potential ideas. Based on the same mechanics as the rest of the 
live-action system in Laws of Ascension, these rules provide different 
ways to expand your chronicle, but you can always pick and choose 
what works for you. 
This Companion clarifies a few rules and adds many new ideas. 
You'll find that a lot of these spring directly from ideas presented by 
the original book, or from other sourcebooks for Mage. With this 
book, you should have just about all the guidelines you need to any of 
the Mage cosmology fully accessible. 
So, without further ado, here's what you'll find in this Companion: 
Chapter One: Introduction is this little stuff right here. 
Chapter Two: The Technocracy covers in detail that most 
fearsome of organizations - 
the conspiratorial Technocratic Union. 
From Technocracy character recruitment to special Storytelling 
considerations to running a Technocracy-based game, it's all here. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Chapter Three: Character Additions expands upon all of your 
materials for making Mage characters, including new Backgrounds, 
Adversarial Backgrounds, Merits, Flaws, disparate types and more. It's 
everything from the advantages and disadvantages of playing a strange 
mage like an Ahl-i-Batin, to how to convert the Merits and Flaws from 
your tabletop supplement. 
Chapter Four: Rotes and Wonders expands upon the sample 
rotes from the core book. This comprehensive list includes a lot more 
things for mages to do, and some clarifications on the uses of earlier 
rotes. Also, you'll find some rotes that show a wide range of capabilities, 
from shaking the world to just getting along in daily life, all suitable 
for inspiration. 
Chapter Five: Rules Addenda updates and clarifies some of the 
rules from Laws of Ascension so that you can avoid headaches or 
minor mistakes. Also in here are a few additional optional rules, like 
how to build a Paradox deck with a deck of normal cards and how to 
deal with the headaches of crossovers with other World of Darkness 
games. 
Chapter Six: Places of Stories covers the Umbra, spirits, 
Shallowings, hauntings, the Digital Web and the like all in detail. 
You'll find ideas on how to create new and compelling places for your 
stories. You'll also learn the rules governing those strange locations 
and how mages interact with them. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


L 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Every Tradition mage fears them. Every shadowy conspiracy is 
attributed to them. Every historical impetus to stamp out the mystical 
world in favor of reason is a victory at their feet. They are the 
Technocracy. 
The Technocracy, or Technocratic Union, is often considered the 
greatest antagonist for any Tradition Mage game - 
or the greatest set 
of heroes and protagonists for a game centered around the Union. 
To understand the Technocracy and use it in your games, you'll 
need to know a bit about where they come from. With the helpful 
indoctrination/education 
guide here, you'll have no problem getting in 
step with the Pogrom. You might even find yourself Conditioned to 
play a Technocracy-based game instead of a Tradition-oriented one! 
Most Tradition mages see the Technocracy as a faceless megalith 
bent on domination not only of the Earth but all of Reality. They claim 
that the agents of the Technocracy are at best willing dupes, and most 
are actively evil. They see the philosophy of the Technocracy as 
abhorrent. 
And the Technocracy doesn't mind one bit. Let their enemies 
underestimate them, they say. Technocracy members know better; 
they are the last, desperate bastion of hope against madness and chaos. 
THE TECHNKRACY 
ITSELF 
They just might be right. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


doing is imposing their views on th 
and beauty. They want a sterile, clockwork universe where 
everything is totally regimented and precisely controlled. They 
want all magic gone from the world - 
no sense of wonder, no 
joy of discovery, just endless tedium and toil, forever. 
That's what the Tradition mages will tell you. 
The Technos no more see themselves as mustache-twirling 
villains bent on world subjugation than the Traditions see 
themselves as bomb-throwing anarchists bent on unmaking the 
laws of reality just so they can regain power. Members of the 
nventions of the Technocracy see themselves as many things 
employees of an advanced group of companies devoted to 
promoting scientific understanding of the universe, agents in a 
secret war against paranormaluerrorists, defenders of humanity, 
or promoters of civilization and rational thinking. Their tools 
are not magic cloaked in the trappings of science and technology, 
they are science and technology; extremely advanced examples, 
to be sure, but nothing that humanity won't be able to use, in 
A15 but the most devot 
Technocracy has made mist 
Sometimes they have reasons 
other times all they can say is 
they can point to a world t 
tter place to live than the one they i 
eople live longer, enjoy better live 
d more equality than ever before. 
How true this image of the Tech 
spin you want to give your story. The 
be nothing more than mustachioed 
behind beeping computers and giant 
a game more about beating ass than 
ideas. At the opposite end of the sca 
could be everything it thinks it is - 
men and women (and artificial creation 
the world a better place, and p 
ous paranormal infestations. 
somewhere in the middle. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


HISTCBRY 
The first members of the Technocracy, by some accounts, were the 
prehuman that grabbed a leg bone and bashed his opponent over the 
head with it, the Cro-Magnon that grabbed a burning hunk of tree from 
a lightning strike and used it to light his cave, and the Neanderthal that 
domesticated the wolf and the horse. Others trace the origins of the 
groups that would become the Technocracy to ancient Egypt, or to 
China, or suggest that the scientist-magi of early Arabia might have 
been their antecedents. Stll others credit Pythagoras, Archimedes, 
Hero and Daedalus of the Greeks. Any or all of these theories may be 
correct - 
it really depends on what interpretation of history you want 
to use. 
The Technocracy truly began to get organized in the beginnings of 
the second millennium. A noble named Wolfgang von Reismann 
helped organize the Craftmasons, an organization of secret societies 
dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge, the betterment of Mankind and 
(secretly), a cure for death itself. The Craftmasons soon made contact 
with an organization of alchemists and herbalists called the Solificati, 
who joined them in an informal alliance. They were joined by the High 
Guild, a brotherhood of Enlightened tradesmen and merchants. As the 
loose coalition grew, they became increasingly concerned about the 
threats presented by the supernatural world. Mages and vampires ruled 
the civilized world, while the woods were home to all manner of fell 
beasts and monsters. Most people spent their lives wracked with fear. 
Something hadto be done. 
The Order of Reason announced its presence to the world with a 
bang, at the Covenant of Mistridge. Mistridge was a large Hermetic 
Chantry located in southern France that had long since fallen into 
corruption and moral decay. The local peasants, tired of magical 
depredations and heavy taxation brought the tower of Mistridge under 
siege, and the Craftmasons showed up to help. Artificer artillery blasted 
down walls of stone, while prayers, sacred geometry and alchemically 
erected barriers in the Gauntlet prevented escape. By the time the siege 
was over, Mistridge Tower was no more, and the members of the Order 
of Hermes who had lived there were dead. In place of the tower, the 
Craftmasons raised a school and a church. 
News of the events at Mistridge spread, and the influence of the 
Craftmasons and their allies soon followed. While their success was not 
universal - 
the disastrous events in Languedoc and the Cathar heresy 
being perhaps the most notable error- 
it was ever-present and 
I '  
' 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


I 
growing. In 1325, the Convention of the Ivory Tower at Yossamy 
formalized the alliance between the Craftmasons, the Cabal of Pure 
Thought (a group of religious warriors that may be the predecessors of 
the modemNWO), the Artificers (agroup of smiths, artisans, inventors 
and mechanics), the Celestial Masters and the Void Seekers (guilds of 
explorers and stargazers), the Cosians (healers, herbalists and alchemists), 
and the High Guild (financiers, traders, and merchants) into a new 
organization- 
the Order of Reason. The Solificati, one of the 
Craftmasons' first allies, were members of the Order for only a short 
time, quickly falling away from them, and eventually leaving the 
Traditions as well. Within a century, the Order wielded influence in 
every court in Europe and the Middle East, and its touch was felt as far 
away as China and South America. In many parts of the world, their 
advice came to be more important than that of the mages who had acted 
as advisors for years before. At first, this rivalry was nearly friendly, a 
disagreement between equals, but this was not to last. Eventually the 
Traditions and the Order would be locked in a secret war that has lasted 
until recently, when the Ascension War finally ended. 
Even in the early days, the Order was not without internal strife. The 
Craftmasons were at odds with the Cabal and the High Guild on a number 
of subjects, and in 1670 they were betrayed and destroyed, apparently to a 
man. Today, only scraps of records exist to suggest that the Craftmasons 
ever existed, the result of some unknown cover-up or reworking of history. 
Members of the Technocracy can take many roles in your story, and 
different members can take on different roles at different times. The 
Man in White who is a covert source of information one week can be 
an implacable foe a month (and possibly some re-education) later. 
STCBR~ELLING 
THE TECHNKRACY. 
USING 
THE TEHNKRACY 
IN A TRADITIQNS 
In a story that concentrates on Tradition mages, the Technocracy 
are usually the antagonists, but what kind of opposition can impact 
immensely on the feel of the game. The Technocracy doesn't need to 
be played in any one particular style, but a trend or theme in their 
behavior can lend a sense of how the game is to be played. Some 
examples include: 
Shadowy Nemesis 
In this version, the Technocracy works from the shadows, using its 
influence and information to hamper your players' characters, but rarely 
taking an active role against them. The players may not even be aware that 
the Technocracy is actually out to get them, or may suspect, but not be able 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Technos are a bunch of fascist bastards. All they are doing 
is imposing their views on the world, strangling all choice and 
beauty. They want a sterile, clockwork universe where everything 
is totally regimented and precisely controlled. They want all 
magic gone from the world- 
no sense of wonder, no joy of 
discovery, just endless tedium and toil, forever. 
That's what the Tradition mages will tell you. 
The Technos no more see themselves as mustache-twirling 
villains bent on world subjugation than the Traditions see 
themselves as bomb-throwing anarchists bent on unmaking the 
laws of reality just so they can regain power. Members of the 
nventions of the Technocracy see themselves as many things 
- 
employees of an advanced group of companies devoted to 
promoting scientific understanding of the universe, agents in a 
secret war against paranormal terrorists, defenders of humanity, or 
promoters of civilization and rational thinking. Their tools are not 
magic cloaked in the trappings of science and technology, they are 
science and technology; extremely advanced examples, to be sure, 
but nothing that humanity won't be able to use, in time. 
All but the most devoted Technocrat will ad 
Technocracy has made mistakes, some of them q 
Sometimes they have reasons why these mistakes 
other times all they can say is that they screwed up. Still, overall, 
ey can point to a world that is safer, cleaner and overall a better 
lace to live than the one they inherited six centuries ago. People 
ve longer, enjoy better lives, have more opportunity and more 
How true this image of the Technocracy is depends on the spin 
you want to give your story. The Technocracy could in fact be 
nothing more than mustachioed villains hiding their plans behind 
beeping computers and giant ray-guns, the black hats in 
more about beating ass than about complex issues and ide 
site end of the scale, the Technocracy really could be e 
inks it is - 
an organization of dedicated men and wo 
uality than ever before. 
tificial creations) devoted to making the world a better place, 
and protecting humanity from dangerous paranormal infestations. 
The truth, as with all things, is somewhere in the middle. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


toprove it. Charactersmay find theirResources diminishedasthesyndicate 
works against them, the local police (at the behest of an FBI agent who 
unknowingly works for a cutout that works for the NWO) might start 
hassling them, their Chantry might be threatened by Eminent Domain and 
possibly seized. At every turn, anything that can go wrong involving local 
government, politics, criminals or society will go wrong. This kind of 
Technocracy can be amazingly effective.. . and insanely frustrating. Make 
sure you give your players some chances to finally make the connections, 
track down the leads and put paid to some of their tormentors, or they are 
going to hate not just the Technocracy, but you. 
Remember, the Technocracy uses science as a tool, but 
science itself is not the only end. While there are in fact many 
scientists in the Union who perform experiments, try to fit 
observed data into theories and look for ways to make the 
universe "make sense," these scientists usually aren't on the fro 
lines, nor are they policy-makers. The Technocracy runs t 
ropagate its own structure. Once upon a time, the Order 
eason tumbled to science as a tool to advance its agenda of 
protecting humanity. Now, that tool and others fall into the 
hands of agents who may still have that agenda or may have 
So what, you say? This is why the Technocracy doesn't 
bother trying to figure out Tradition magic. Remember, since 
Technocratic researchers don't believe that magic 
it doesn't, for them anyway. Empirical tests ofTraditi 
il. The Technocrats are left with the notion that Tradition 
ages are aberrations, superstitionists, people playing with un- 
ontrolled and incomprehensible forces. Maybe science never 
an explain the strange things these people do- and somewhere 
along the way, the Union stopped caring to explain. They 
decided that "magic" was dangerous, so it had to go. 
The end result: The Technocracy doesn't really care wh 
Tradition magic comes from, or how it works, or why. This i 
very scientific, but that's because the Union is not about scie 
for science's sake. All the Union cares about is making a better 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Overwhelming Force 
This form of the Technocracy strikes without warning. Suddenly, 
combat cyborgs are chasing the players, NWO cutouts are everywhere, 
genetically engineered monsters are crawling out of the sewers, and 
space Marines in power-armor are coming through the roof of the 
Chantry! This kind of Technocracy can be very cathartic, a target-rich 
environment for the players to get all Matrix on. It can also ruin a story, 
kill off all the players if they aren’t careful, and often is very much at 
odds with the feel of many Laws of Ascension chronicles. Care should 
be used in making this the standard version of the Technocracy in your 
chronicle, as it can be hard to manage, and is always available as an 
option when needed. 
Beleaguered Hostiles 
The Technocracy is spread thin, but the players don’t know how 
thin. There are actually only a handful of agents in your local area, in 
this version of the Technocracy - 
they work through cutouts and 
unwitting pawns for the most part. While this can be similar to 
“Shadowy Nemesis”, in this version the agents who are around are more 
out in the open. A Man in White might show up on the doorstep of the 
Chantry (carefully providing for plenty of defenses and lots of 
plainclothes officers about) to let the players know they are under 
surveillance, and if they step out of line.. .. 
Intimidation and misdirection are the tools of the Technocracy in 
this case. The agents on point know the only way to keep the Traditions 
off their backs until they can gather forces to definitively squash them 
is to keep them off-balance and guessing, never knowing when, or if, the 
Technos are going to strike. 
Potential Allies 
Especially suited for a game with a number of Sons of Ether and 
Virtual Adepts, or other technology- and science-friendly characters in 
it, this version of the Technocracy is surprisingly friendly. Oh, they’ll 
stomp on anyone who gets too far out of line, but other than that, their 
primary focus appears to be elsewhere. You can let the players hear 
about operations against the shapeshifters in the nearby national park, 
or actions taken to stop the outbreak of some plague. These Technos 
might even ask for help, once in a while - 
working at stopping the 
machinations of a crazed Marauder, or eliminating a particularly nasty 
Nephandi cult. 
But there should always be a glimmer of doubt, of hidden malice. 
Are the Technos really nicer than the characters’ masters said they 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


would be, or is that Lady in Gray with her not-quite-convincing smile 
just luring them into a trap? Things are rarely as they seem with the 
Technocracy, and wheels within wheels rule their agendas. 
TKHNKRACYKENTEWD 
G m ~ s  
Of course, sometimes you have to put on your shades, play the good 
guys and kick some Reality Deviant ass. That’s where Technocracy 
chronicles come in. A Technocracy chronicle is a chance for people to 
dress to the nines, pull out their scientific magazine subscriptions and 
go hunting for freaky Things that Should Not Be. It’s a game about 
being the Man and part of the System, but also about being a hero. 
The Technocracy has its flaws and problems. At heart, the machine 
of the Union plans to go on, with agendas hard-wired centuries ago and 
policies that are obsolete and contradictory. Even the New World 
Order can’t completely eliminate bureaucratic inefficiency - 
and 
Paradox, it seems, even strikes to cripple social orders. So it is that 
Technocracy characters could range from the cold, heartless agents 
who cover up supernatural events and bring out the inhumanly heavy 
firepower, to sympathetic, insightful researchers and protectors who 
want to make the world a better place. It’s up to you to decide which 
style of play you prefer, or whether to have elements of both. 
Included in this book are all the Conventions of the Technocracy, 
as well as some of their specific abilities and tools. With these, you can 
build your own Technocracy characters, whether as protagonists or 
villains. 
TKHNKRACY 
@P T m s  
When you’re organizing Technocracy groups, the smallest group is 
the op team - 
a squad formed to deal with specific emergencies or 
problems. Sometimes they’re formed “on the fly” in response to an issue. 
In other cases, they’re long-standing groups of allied Technocrats who 
combine skills to complete tasks, in an X-Files-like fashion. 
The Technocracy can and does use normal people in its work. 
Indeed, many of the Union’s agents don’t even realize the nature of the 
conspiracy for which they work. Player groups, however, if they consist 
primarily of Enlightened individuals, probably know at least passingly 
of the Union and its organization. While they have day jobs and normal 
lives, they also do special tasks for the Technocracy to accomplish 
things that normal governments and agencies can’t or won’t deal with. 
More importantly, while some players might enjoy playing an 
unEnlightened operative, for most games you’ll want to forge entire 
groups of Enlightened agents. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A Technocratic op team is roughly equivalent to a Tradition cabal: 
A group of mages that all work together for common goals. Op teams in 
turn report to higher-level facilities, such as Technocratic Constructs 
(bases). In many cases, higher-level administrators in the Union hand 
down specific goals and instructions. Some op teams, though, have wide 
leeway to investigate and resolve cases of Deviants on their own. As a 
Storyteller, you can be as controlling or as free-handed as you wish with 
your players, either keeping them in rigid lockstep or assuming that their 
superiors don’t have the time or inclination to watch over them heavily. 
Ultimately, the Technocracy operates under the auspices ofcontrol. 
This shadowy group of anonymous figures generally sends its missives 
and directives - 
including updates to the Time Table, the plan for 
world innovation and influence - 
down through the many layers of 
Enlightened bureaucracy. In dire cases, someone from Control may 
become more directly involved, but in modern eras this is not only very 
rare but very difficult. Representatives of Control use anonymity as a 
shield and source of power; they distance themselves from problem 
situations, so as to avoid repercussions. As many agents of Control are 
literally hundreds of years old, thanks to biological and bionic 
engineering, and they reside in Constructs on the other side of the 
Dimensional Barrier (the Gauntlet), they don’t make trips to Earth 
frivolously. With communication sporadic due to the strength of the 
Dimensional Barrier, field agents usually hear of Control only third- 
hand. 
LKATICBN 
The locales of a Technocracy-centered story are often very different 
than those of an ordinary Laws of Ascension game, although there is 
substantial overlap (and in a mixed game, of course, there will be 
locations fitting both/all sides). Technocracy games take place in 
science labs and starship bridges, in submarines exploring the Marianas 
Trench and Wall Street trading floors. They are often the antithesis of 
Tradition sites; where a Hermetic library is dusty and cramped, 
overflowing with ponderous tomes, the research library in a Progenitor 
lab complex is clean and tidy. It may be tightly organized, with roll-out 
shelving units to store data tapes and research files, or open and 
spacious, with plenty of room to slide one’s chair out from the computer 
while contemplating the wrapping of an artificial protein. 
In terms of actual locations for play, almost any university contains 
a wealth of spots that can be used. Actual chemistry or other science 
labs can be very cool places, but keep in mind the fact that they are often 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


research equipment. Actual computer labs, server rooms or wiring 
closets are also probably off-limits, lest the wrath of a real sysadmin 
come down upon your head! 
If you can’t use those kinds of areas, there is still a lot you can do to 
simulate them. An ordinary classroom can be turned into a lab with the 
help of some tubing, a burned-out oscilloscope (or better, a working 
one), and some miscellaneous widgets and gadgets. Some working (but 
not irreplaceable) computers, gotten for cheap at a computer show or 
donated/ borrowed from the computer interest floor can help make a 
lounge look like the computer center in a laid-back Iteration X front 
Of course, the Technocracy’s agents also spend time in the field. 
All of the burned-out buildings, street games and glitzy clubs are open 
to them, where they’ll be watching over humanity, taking notes and 
hunting down their adversaries. 
LING@ 
AND IARGCDN 
While on a rules-specific level the Technocrats are ultimately 
mages, they don’t see themselves that way and would never refer to 
themselves in such a fashion. For those used to the terms from Laws of 
Ascension, this handy guide gives you the ways that the Technocracy 
sees everything. 
Arcane: “Cloaking.” Some agents are so unobtrusive that it’s 
almost impossible to track them. Others have specific programs at work 
to remove their identities from databases and records. 
Arete: “Enlightenment.” The stream of high-level thought and 
intuition combined that allows the operative to understand the universe 
on a fundamental level imperceptible to the common man. 
Avatar Background: “Genius.”The subconscious parts of the mind 
that whisper hints and offer dreams to help break through the barriers 
of mundane science. 
Avatar Essence: “Eidolon.” The form that dreams and inspirations 
often take when they suddenly bubble forth to give new ideas. 
Awakening: “Empowerment.” The fundamental spark of Genius 
Chantry: “Construct.” A place for operatives to gather and a 
Consors: “Citizens.” Useful aides and confederates (although they 
when the agent realizes his ability to change the world. 
- 
central information source. 
: 
may not know it). 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Dream Background: “Hypercram.” Technocrats don’t connect to 
any sort of universal unconscious. Instead, they call upon the densely 
impacted knowledge imparted with their training, and sometimes 
formulate amazing leaps of deduction from it. 
Focus: “Apparatus.” A technological device that assists in the 
performance of Enlightened Science. 
Horizon Realm: “Colony.” A place in extradimensional space 
where the Technocracy maintains a stronghold. 
Magic: “Inspired (or Enlightened) Science.” Magic is an aberration. 
It doesn’t work in the lab; it shouldn’t work at all. True agents use their 
phenomenal knowledge of science and technology to “bend” the rules 
of the cosmos. 
Mentor Background: “Patron.” A higher-ranking figure who offers 
advice and occasional behind-the-scenes aid. 
Quintessence: “Prime energy.” The whole universe vibrates on a 
subquantum level with the raw energy of Creation’s frequency. 
Enlightened personnel with the right tools can sense and manipulate 
that energy, thus reinforcing or reversing aspects of the cosmos. 
Sanctum: “Laboratory.” A clean room with controlled conditions 
where experimental Inspired Science is almost guaranteed to work 
without drawbacks or hindrances. 
Sleepers: “The Masses.” Common people, unEnlightened. 
Sorcerer: “Extraordinary Citizen.” An otherwise unEnlightened 
person who still manages to follow and grasp certain specific Enlightened 
procedures, and can thereby perform certain very limited feats of 
Enlightened Science. 
Spirit Sphere: “Dimensional Science.” Spirits are useless rubbish 
from superstitious cultures. Quantum physics shows that “spirits” are 
really emanations and creatures from other dimensions. 
Tradition mage: “Superstitionist.” Someone who believes in and 
uses the power of superstition. That it works for a few people is 
irrelevant; that such power is dangerous to humanity is of paramount 
concern. 
Wonder: “Device.” A tool that uses Enlightened Science so far 
beyond mundane technology that it seems impossible is a special 
Device. Sadly, such devices are often prone to malfunction and require 
lots of maintenance (i.e., they suffer Paradox). 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


location, it is strongly recommended that you place a restriction 
costuming to avoid any outfits that might be misconstrued. 
make sure nobody is unduly alarmed and calls the cops to 
nervous when they hear about such things. 
the owners of the site know about it ahead of time, 
ss to the location as much as you can, and make sure 
going on. If you have a member of your group who is actu 
police officer, ormember of the campus security, they should b 
representative (that will usually be you, as the chief 
who has been listed as the contact person, and who is r 
questions if the police do show up. That means, by the way 
should leave the Merlin robes at home - 
a conservativ 
lot more presentable. 
ENLIGHTENED 
SCIENCE 
Loopholes. Enlightened Science is all about loopholes. 
Reality has laws. Energy flows from areas of high potential to areas 
of low potential. A dropped item falls. Whether these laws are just 
beliefs so deeply ingrained in the subconscious of humanity that even 
the Awakened are unable to flaunt them indiscriminately, or are actual 
objective laws of reality, is a subject of great debate. In the end, despite 
what scholars in the Technocracy and the Traditions may believe or 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


argue, they are real. The laws are there, and the Technocracy wrote the 
definitions, the case law and the majority opinions. 
So the Technocrats know the loopholes and exceptions. They 
know the sub-paragraphs and exit clauses. This gives the Technocracy 
their greatest advantage, and their greatest weakness. The average 
Tradition mage is willing to flaunt the rules of reality, bend them and 
break them at will. ATechnocrat must work within the laws- indeed, 
most are unaware that they can break the rules. Only those Technocrats 
with very high Enlightenment scores are truly aware that reality is 
consensual, and that technology is merely magic gone static. 
For most Technocrats, their foci are more than just convenient 
tools for concentrating their will - 
they are the means by which they 
alter the universe. Just as a soldier relies on his rifle to kill, Technocrats 
rely on their foci to create the Effects they use. An Iteration X cyborg 
without his plasma gun can no more blow up the car across the street 
than a soldier without a grenade launcher can. Enlightened Scientists 
are able to wrap their minds around concepts and ideas most Sleepers 
find difficult or impossible to understand, granting them the ability to 
work with technologies most simply cannot make work, regardless of 
training, but they still must have access to those technologies. So a 
Technocrat can’t just wave a magic wand, mumble a few incantations, 
and cause a bouquet of roses to appear in his other hand. But he could 
trigger a holographic generator, or activate a sub-space wrinkle 
transporter, or use nanoassemblers to create the roses out of the 
elements located nearby and the effect would be the same, or nearly so. 
The most advanced Technocrats finally begin to understand what 
it is to be Awakened in a consensual universe, but even they find it 
difficult to perform Enlightened Science outside the paradigms of 
technology and science. Their own beliefs and doctrines get in the way 
of their magics - without their tools, any Effects they try are 
automatically vulgar with witnesses, or simply fail outright. 
PARADCBX 
AND TECHNICAL 
SYSTE~I-IS 
Although most Technocrats will hotly deny it (speaking instead of 
“system crashes”, “hardware failures”, “genetic incompatibilities” and 
even “subconscious use of anti-psi”), technological systems are just as 
prone to Paradox effects, although the manifestations are usually less 
flamboyant than those suffered by the Tradition mages. (This, of 
course, depends largely on the Effect and the device used; Iteration X 
mages are known for their rather.. . pyrotechnic Paradox backlashes, as 
when a laser’s super-conducting power cells backfire.) 
i; - 
.d -.- 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Almost any science is of use to some arm of the Technocracy, but 
these are some of the more commonly encountered ones. 
Nanotechnology: Use of molecular-scale devices and engi- 
neering. This can create amazingly perfect materials, assemble or 
disassemble objects out of (or into) seeming nothingness, heal 
impossible wounds and all manner of other “miracles.” Its drawbacks 
are heat, and the possibility of the nanobots getting out of control. 
Hyperphysics: The study of extremely advanced (and theoreti- 
cal, to modern scientists) physics involving alternate universes; 
“imaginary” numbers, materials and sub-atomic properties; and gross 
manipulation of the space-time continuum. The drawbacks to this 
ence include the massive power requirements, and the extreme 
anger of most of the effects; one wrong step usually means death for 
the subject, experimenter and everyone else within a couple blocks 
of the experiment site. 
Computers: Computers are everywhere in the Technocracy, 
and are used for everything from record-keeping to doing predictive 
analysis on future trends and overseeing routine surveillance gear. Of 
course, computers are only as perfect as their programmers. 
Cheinistry: Including medicines, drugs, poisons and many other 
substances. Advanced fuels, plastics and other materials, 
explosives and super-adhesives are all some of the to 
makes possible. Drawbacks include the difficulty of synthesizing 
y of these compounds, the hazards in storing and shipping them, 
sheer cost of manufacturing and their side-effects. 
Memetics: The science of ideas and thought constructs. Memes 
are ideas or concepts that are infectious; they can spread, replicate, 
“breed” with other memes to create new ideas; they can even be 
inoculated against, engineered and isolated. Some examples are 
catchy songs, advertising logos, slogans, urban myths and ideologies 
(most -isms are complexes of interrelated memes). This is different 
from psionics, below, in that a meme doesn’t have to be deliver 
telepathically, and someone with strong mental defenses may still 
susceptible to attacks by hostile memes. 
Physics: More conventional studies than hyperphysics, in g 
eral. Room temperature superconductors, high-energy lasers and 
plasma, magnetic acceleration systems, sonic fields, advanced aerody- 
namics and many other advances. Paradox tends to be messy and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


involve a lot of exploding stuff - 
most Technocracy physics devices 
pack a lot of power into a fairly small space. 
Psionics: A controversial field of study in the Technocracy, 
but one with slowly gaining popularity. NWO agents use telepathy 
to ferret out secrets, projective empathy (and sub-sonic sound 
waves) to give themselves the sense of unease and dread that 
surrounds them, and mind shields to keep unwanted intruders out 
of their cerebrums. Progenitors hold up psionics as the ultimate 
perfection of the mind. Still, psionics smacks of magic in the eves 
of many (including most in Iteration X), and its study, while not 
banned, is subject to more than the usual levels of oversight. 
Genetic Engineering: Along with its close cousin cloning, 
netics is the home ground of the Progenitors. With the right bit 
resquencing, a Gengineer can create a new protein for use in 
nanotechnology, a microbe that deposits titanium in a particular 
pattern when it dies, or a supervirus. Larger-scale operations are 
also possible; cloned dinosaurs and other extinct creatures have 
been kept in isolated zoological research centers, and stranger 
creations (called Chimera) have been created, although their 
Chaos Math/Complexity: Chaos math is the 
is meteorology; the planet is so large, and so many factors involved 
in the weather, that it is impossible to predict it beyond a certain 
set of general trends, and very short-scale predictions of limited 
accuracy. Fractals are another example of chaos theory. An under- 
standing of how complex systems work, what can be predicted and 
what can't, how trends work, and where the borderline between 
linear, predictable systems and nonlinear, complex systems falls is 
vital to almost all aspects of the Technocracy, but the NWO and 
Syndicate make perhaps the most direct applications of these 
Cybernetics: At its most fundamental level, cybernetics is 
study of augmenting or enhancing the human body with mechan 
systems; a pair of glasses might be considered a cybernetic device. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The earliest legends speak of smiths and craftsmen able to build 
tools and weapons that were impossibly strong, light or sharp - 
these 
were the predecessors to the modem Iteration X. The Artificers (also 
known as the High Artisans) could be found building weapons of war 
for Thothmes in Egypt, steam-powered toys in Greece and the great 
waterworks of Rome. During the “Dark Ages”, their wonders delighted 
the courts of Arabia and Persia, and fortified the walls of Byzantium. 
The coming of the Renaissance saw the High Artisans brought to new 
heights of power. They joined the Order of Reason, and their 
mechanisms, printing presses, gunpowder weapons, clockwork devices 
and mathematics helped create new ideas about civilization, science 
and technology, laying the groundwork for an ideal of science and 
rationality that persists to this day. The hidden lords of the Industrial 
Revolution, the High Artisans grew increasingly fascinated with the 
mechanical computing engines first prototyped by Charles Babbage, 
revising and improving them until, in an unknown iteration, one 
achievedsentience. Inoverjoyedcelebration, the High Artisans renamed 
themselves “Iteration X ,  in honor of their success. 
A Convention composed of engineers, mathematicians, physicists 
and computer scientists and programmers, for many years ItX provided 
the weapons (and weapon carriers) of the Technocracy. HIT-Marks and 
cyborgs provided shock troops, and ItX-designed sidearms and defenses 
provided more fragile agents (Enlightened or not) with the firepower 
they needed to pursue the Pogrom. IterationX was one of the most fervent 
pursuers of the assault on the Traditions, tracking down and destroying 
mages and Chantries with a brutality that disturbed even their peers in 
the Union. Tradition rumors (and Technocracy turncoats) speak of 
massive slave labor camps outside the Barrier, and Tradition mages (or 
parts of them) being converted into killer cyborgs and turned against 
their former allies. On the flip side, the Iterators contend that they’ve 
neither the inclination nor the budget to pursue such tremendously costly 
and dubious ventures; besides, why turn someone into a slave in a 
Construct when a couple of simple chips in the head will let the person 
go back to a safe, normal, productive and non-Deviant lifestyle? 
Iteration X theoretically follows a strict hierarchy of command and 
control, deviated from only in extreme situations. At the bottom of the 
Convention are the unEnlightened poles, who take care of most of the 
day-to-day tasks. Ranging from lab assistants, graduate students and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


some professors, IT professionals to secretaries, security officers, tech- 
nicians and maintenance personnel (many of them not even aware of 
what they are part of), proles also form the core memberships of labor 
unions (particularly in technological fields), Internet discussion and 
special interest groups, and professional organizations. Especially gifted 
members (including Enlightened Scientists, but also Extraordinary 
Citizens and Sleeper scientists or researchers of unusual merit) are 
recruited as Ciphers, and placed in a grueling training program. Ciphers 
are often unaware they have been recruited; they find themselves 
working on demanding jobs in frustrating projects, sent to far-away 
cities and forced to live in motels, or stuck with incredible classloads 
under dictatorial professors. Those who persevere are promoted to the 
status of Armature, the lowest actual rank in the Convention. Until 
recently, all Armatures, regardless of their final position or calling, 
served for a time in a front line combat unit; while this practice has 
fallen out of favor, most Armatures receive at least some basic combat 
training. 
Since Earth lost contact with the Union's extraterrestrial holdings, 
and the end of the Pogrom, Iteration X has undergone a change that 
many in the Technocracy see as for the better. Younger, more flexible 
programmers and Armatures are taking charge of the Union's Earthbound 
operations, bringing with them new ideas about how the Convention 
should proceed and what sciences are important. Where many of the 
higher-ranking members of the Convention frowned on 
nanotechnology, quantum physics and other esoteric studies, preferring 
the stability and predictability OfNewtonianphysics, younger members 
thrive on the new sciences. A subscription to Paradigma, (the newsletter 
and research journal of the Sons of Ether) has for many years been 
considered a minor breach of Protocol, but rumors circulate that some 
Armatures may be (or already are) seeking closer ties with their 
Tradition cousins, particularly the younger generation of Etherites, 
which is more concerned with cutting-edge sciences and alternate 
theories, and less with etherships and radium projectors. Another 
rumor, that a Virtual Adept is nothing more than an Xer on the 
weekends, may have more truth to it; the Virtual Adepts and Iteration 
X have always had common interests, even after the Adepts left the 
Union. 
Roleplaying Hints: Not every Iteration X member is a rigid- 
thinking automaton under constant surveillance by her implants and 
following pre-programmed orders, despite what Tradition propaganda 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


and Technocracy lore would have some believe. The average Armature 
is a low-ranking scientist, computer technician, server administrator, 
programmer or other high-tech professional. 
Specialty Sphere: Mutter 
Common Foci: Sensor gear, lab equipment, cybernetic systems, 
Convention Advantage: Hardware Supremacy 
Iterators have access to the best hardware available - 
and if they 
don't have it, they can make it. All Iterators have two free levels to split 
between Enhancements and Devices as desired; these can be added to 
levels taken as Backgrounds or with free Traits or experience, up to the 
usual limit. 
An Iterator's hardware familiarity and knowledge also translates 
into real competence in dealing with modern technology. Once per 
session, an Iterator can make a free special retest when coaxing 
performance out of some piece of technology, be it a Device or a 
mundane bit of tech. This doesn't apply to magical challenges (it can't 
be used to retest an Enlightenment test) but does give an Iterator an 
edge on Computer and Technology challenges, even if the Iterator 
doesn't have a lot of personal experience with the items in question. 
Convention Disadvantage: Dimensional Incompetence 
For many years, members of Iteration X were forbidden to learn the 
Sphere of Dimensional Science (Spirit). While the lack of contact with 
Autocthonia (the home of Iteration Xs vaunted sentient Computer 
and controller) has allowed some adventurous members to take tutelage 
from members of the Void Engineers or the NWO, they still find this 
pathofstudyadifficult one. Members of IterationX may not begingame 
play with this Sphere, and pay double to acquire levels or rotes using it. 
Additionally, Iterators typically have some sort of monitoring 
implant hand-in-hand with their usual technological wonders. Assume 
that at any time an Iterator's location can be found (unless magically 
shielded) by his superiors, so he'd better not screw up. 
computers, robots, nanotechnology, hyperphysics, energy weapons 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


hese Iterators create the hardware and implants that go i 
Statisticians - 
Mathematicians and hyperphysicists wh 
delve into abstract models of the universe. 
ss and resolve issues in projects, as well as working on 
keep projects working as well-oiled as the machines they bu 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Historically, the New World Order’s functional roots seem quite 
recent compared to the rest of the Technocracy - 
records claim that 
Queen Victoria created the NWO by fiat as a bureaucracy to deal with 
the transition of government from a religious, divinely backed edifice 
to an enlightened, reasoned nation-state. Conspirators point out, 
though, that the Order has roots stretching back to such early groups as 
the Cabal of Pure Thought, a religious conspiracy devoted to the spread 
of orthodoxy under one united church. Noting the NWO’s penchant 
for advanced planning and political manipulation, a few pundits claim 
that the group actually socially re-engineered itself from its roots as a 
religious conspiracy so that it could purge divisive or conservative 
elements and create its own rebirth. Regardless of the truth, NWO 
historians consider the matter closed. Drawing inspiration from such 
historical figures as Hammurabi and his famous legal code, or Confucius 
and his Analects, the NWO points out that so long as humans have 
organized in groups, they’ve always had governments, information 
disseminators, educators and secrets. From such roots comes the New 
World Order, but only the Order’s highest academics can tell where it’ll 
go. 
The New World Order oversees the dissemination of information 
in all its forms and the structures that build around that information. 
Governments, academies and media outlets all hover along the NWO’s 
fringe of influence. Let the Syndicate concentrate on the buying and 
selling - 
the NWO focuses on those things that people don’t buy, on 
public goods and externalities like infrastructure or the moral ambiguity 
of legal codes. Other Conventions provide hard-tech while the NWO 
collates historical information, makes projections for future society, 
arranges hyperefficient bureaucracy and political communication, 
streamlines dissemination and education procedures, and locks away 
the things that people don’t need to know about. Hand-in-hand with 
these programs are the editation projects to rewrite history to the 
Technocracy’s liking, removing all “superstitious” viewpoints that 
would hinder the Union’s goals, and the political projects to carefully 
balance world development in hopes of raising the Masses’ intelligence 
and education to a less dangerous level. Tradition mages speak fearfully 
of NWO’s practiced conditioning techniques: according to rumor, the 
appearance of black-suited agents means that someone will disappear 
soon after with no records left. Most fearsomely, the NWO does oversee 
psychological conditioning, and their special projects in the halls of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Room 101 provide whispered, terrifying stories. Those who return from 
such conditioning sessions don't need any technological alterations to 
their minds or bodies - 
the advanced psychology of the NWO turns 
traitors into loyalists, rebels into conformists and the most staunch 
Traditionalist into a Technocratic operative. 
As the masters of bureaucracy, the New World Order oversees 
communication not only internally but among the other divisions of 
the Technocracy. New recruits and education programs most often 
form out of the NWO's advance planning. Of course, other Conventions 
suspect that NWOeducation indoctrinates agents with hidden loyalties, 
but the NWO's psychology also insures that such recruits often have 
veryusehl talents- 
theNWOknows how to pick them. UnEnlightened 
recruits fall into the category of Sympathizers, including everything from 
trained spies to the occasional janitor who keeps an ear out. Those who 
move up in the Convention gain prestige and influence according to 
their pursuits: Academics have limited pull but can set policy with their 
papers and reports, while media pundits exert their ties on the Masses 
subtly. The most infamous ranking agents are the Men in Black, 
Enlightened field operatives (or sometimes clones or constructs) who 
wear the signature black suit, black tie, blackshoes and shades and have 
all the influence one would expect of a covert government operative. 
The top of the NWO hierarchy lies with the mysterious Gray Men and 
Men in White, who oversee the Convention as a whole and maintain 
orthodoxy (such as it is in a non-religious organization) among the 
entire Union. 
The modem New World Order always rides the forefront of social 
change. Why not, with advanced social sciences 50 or a hundred years 
ahead of the current human condition? This isn't to say that they're 
perfect; after all, they couldn't predict the Technocracy's current 
problems, nor can they always model the vagaries of Tradition mages or 
even the occasional Deviant moving among the Masses. Some up-and- 
coming operatives suspect that perhaps humanity is simply too complex 
to understand completely; the human spirit can't be bounded so easily. 
With this in mind, field agents operate with greater personal discretion, 
so that they can bring their own intuition to bear on rapidly changing, 
unpredictable situations. Upper-level operatives - 
those that remain 
and keep in touch-offer 
the idea that the NWO should be guides, not 
police, in the quest to shepherd humanity to a better social state. Ethics, 
once considered a marginalized study that could be brought down to a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


calculable state, now demands that perhaps some compromises aren't 
worth it. 
Roleplaying Hints: NWO operatives are savvy, alert and in charge. 
Although there's some room for personal eccentricities, all NWO 
operatives give off the impression that they've already laid plans and 
contingencies for every possibility. With their superlative understanding 
of ethics, social evolution and information flow, agents constantly and 
intuitively put together disparate pieces of a scene to arrive at an 
overarching picture of the dynamics at work behind it. NWO members 
include everything from teachers and reporters to historians, politicians, 
spies, spin doctors and psychologists. 
Specialty Sphere: Mind 
Common Foci: Government ID badges, black suits, authoritarian 
behaviors ("It's a matter ofnational security"), research papers, historical 
records, spy gadgets 
Convention Advantage: Information is Power 
New World Order agents have access to some of the best informa- 
tion sources in human existence, and some can even open rare files of 
historical import that have long since been sealed away from the public 
eye. Whether by calling in government favors or digging through 
academic paperwork, an operative can find information on nearly any 
topic. Every agent has two free levels in any combination of the 
following Backgrounds: Contacts, Influence: Media or Influence: 
Espionage. 
Furthermore, the authoritarian and knowledgeable position of 
NWO agents places them regularly at the top of the chain for information 
retrieval. Information truly is power. Once per session, an agent can do 
a background check on a piece of information gleaned from a Contact 
or Influence (it doesn't even have to have been one of the agent's 
Contacts or Influences, if someone else cooperates). The agent 
automatically determines whether the information is true or a deliberate 
falsehood. This doesn't necessarily tell if it'saccurute, but will immediately 
tell if a Contact or Influence is giving incorrect information or if the 
information has been tampered with. 
Convention Disadvantage: Who Watches the Watchers? 
Sometimes politicking gets in the way of free information flow. 
Other times, a superior determines that it's "for the greater good" that 
certain files don't make it out, or that a given agent winds up on a hit 
list for learning things better left unknown. NWO agents must step 
carefully, because their Convention monitors them just as much as it 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


monitors everyone else. Somewhere, somebody has a record of every- 
thing an agent does on a mission - 
including every screw-up. Iterators 
might have some sort of locator beacon, but the NWO agent has 
something arguably worse: a permanent record. 
Any NWO operative of higher rank than the character (typically, 
someone with higher Enlightenment and a commensurate posting in 
the Convention) can use every Negative Reputation Trait the chructer has 
ever had in any Social Challenge against the character. 
Agents who rack up too many bad missions on their records (i.e., 
too many Negative Traits, at the Storyteller’s discretion) may be retired 
to desk jobs (taken out of active duty and play). 
lvoy Tower - 
Academics and historians who perform pure 
research and soft science. The Ivory Tower intellectuals may 
m distant from worldly affairs, but have a firm handle on the 
Operatives - T h e  feared Men in Black work as 
troubleshooters, taking care of problem elements. Their higher- 
level Gray Men and Men in White coordinate government 
sub-agencies and special policing units to keep a 
nfluence throughout the civilized world. 
story and psycliology behind the world’s events. 
Watchers - 
Mass media and instant information merge into 
hyperattenuated picture of the world, one that the Masses 
consume readily. The Watchers observe and sometimes 
manipulate this process to keep an eye out for social developme 
and nudge the public’s opinions. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Early man lived in constant fear of the mystery of death. Around 
every corner waited disease, accidental injury, age and eventually the 
inevitable end. At first, humanity sought spiritual recourse from rigors 
that couldn’t be avoided, constructing elaborate mystical causes for 
sickness and life. The blossoming of reason, though, bent Mankind to 
study of the self, which in turn led to the realization that perhaps some 
elements of the life process could be controlled. Famine could be 
warded off with the cultivation of crops and animals. Disease could be 
halted with sanitation and treatment. Certain herbs and practices 
reversed symptoms and even brought wellness where before only slow 
death lay. From these beginnings sprang the Cosians, researchers into 
the process of life and all of its permutations. At first simple physicians, 
the Cosians quickly took to the study of all biological phenomena. As 
the Enlightened communities developed germ theory, cell theory, 
understanding of herbalism and pharmacology, and the repeatable 
benefits of trauma care, the science of medicine came to fruition. At 
length, these researchers reached for the ultimate question: Where does 
life come from? How does it persist? In seeking the answers, they became 
the Progenitors, the scientists and doctors who sustain - 
and create - 
life. 
As one would expect of a medically oriented Convention, the 
Progenitors count doctors, research physicians, pharmacologists and 
psychiatrists among their numbers. Less common but no less important 
are paleontologists, xenobiologists, botanists and other researchers 
who contribute to the understanding of extinct creatures, 
extradimensional entities and the plants and animals that surround the 
human world. Through their studies, the Progenitors insure health and 
long life; their regular treatments can cure grievous injuries, and even 
field medicines greatly improve the survival chances of young 
Technocratic operatives. High-ranking Technocrats undergo special 
procedures to extend their lifespans, effectively renewing their flesh 
and returning youth to the mind. Even the Masses benefit; Progenitors 
working in research hospitals turn their talents to saving all lives, and 
their work often slowly filters into the medical community. Perhaps 
more frighteningly, the Convention experiments with the alteration 
and synthetic augmentation of living beings, and can and does create 
mutated animals, retroviruses that can re-engineer a human’s protein 
processes to change the body’s chemistry, or even clones sprung from a 
single sample of an individual. Rumor holds that many otherwise 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


disabled agents or captured enemies are replaced with clones, and that 
the Progenitors hold a special protein combination that causes such 
copies to disintegrate quickly with a single application - 
or, equally 
disturbingly, that Progenitor projects might contain the secrets to 
reversing any of their biological engineering. Such thoughts do not 
comfort the agents who rely on Progenitor techniques for their continued 
health and youth. 
Progenitor ranks follow the same academic mindset that rules the 
rest of the Convention. While it's possible for someone without a 
professorial appointment or formal advanced degree to hold authority, 
it's rare; such highly Enlightened individuals usually learn to work 
within the system, at least for appearance's sake. At the low end, Street 
Ops, Recruiters and Technicians handle the day-to-day maintenance of 
the Convention, doing everything from working at public clinics to 
maintaining hospital machinery or serving as interns. Enlightened 
operatives who show promise generally become Students under an 
experienced Progenitor; these students participate in fieldwork and 
hone a research thesis, just like any other graduate student at a 
university. The difference lies in the nature of the field work, which can 
include research on alien or Deviant creatures and high-security secret 
medical technology. A surviving Student whose thesis passes muster 
goes on to become a Research Assistant, usually posted to a specific 
Construct for continued training, but given greater discretion to pursue 
personal projects. Some RAs instead continue field work, to support 
their own theories, to gather specimens or just to stay out of the lab. 
Primary Investigators and Research Directors operate at the top rungs; the 
PIS follow through on important topics of research, using their formidable 
Enlightenment to bring unique solutions to bear, while the RDs decide 
on the up-and-coming technologies to study. RDs also handle all of the 
Technocracy-related political maneuvering, since they have the long 
overview of the Convention's work. The only ones above the RDs are 
the Progenitor elements associated with Control, the Administration - 
who have all the qualities one would expect of hospital administrators 
who're seen only through paperwork, intermediaries and their special 
operatives for dealing with emergency situations ("Damage Control" 
teams). 
The Progenitors have fortunately undergone a hefty shift in policy 
over the last few years. Originally, the modern Administration seemed 
bent on the creation of genegineered creatures, augmented clones and 
tailored viruses almost purely out of some grotesque "pure research" 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


directive. Doubtless some of this had to do with the fact that Progenitor 
Administrators had an effective life expectancy outstripping anything 
else in the Technocracy; the heads of the Convention were, quite 
literally, old-school physicians from the Renaissance, still obsessed 
with the creation of creatures and with raw experimentation as compared 
to logical, scientific medical development. With the Administration 
out of the picture, the Progenitor RDs and, in some cases, PIS have taken 
the initiative to re-organize their departments for specialized research 
in different areas of personal interest. A Progenitor Student is unlikely 
to see or engineer some sort of monstrous beast unless it’s for specific 
study; disease programs initially made for bio-war have turned into 
pathogen control centers. While the Convention can and does still 
perform biological augmentation for combat operatives, the focus of the 
vast majority of Progenitor work now lies directly in line with improving 
the human condition and understanding the processes of life. Many 
Progenitors now openly assert that this is where it should’ve been all 
along. 
Roleplaying Hints: Fully 95 percent of Progenitors hail from 
experienced medical academic backgrounds, and it shows. Most are 
affluent, fit and just a little bit nerdy - 
not too much contact with 
people outside the lab for 30 years, after all. Many have the glazed, 
stressed-out look of an overworked medical intern, but their 
Enlightenment makes them sharp and steady when it comes to medical 
matters. 
Specialty Sphere: Life 
Common Foci: Medical equipment, surgical tools, retroviruses, 
CHON (carbon-hydrogen-oxygen-nitrogen - the basis of living 
proteins) reservoirs, genegineering, grafts, psionic enhancements 
Convention Advantage: Better Living Through Chemistry 
Access to pharmacoepia, retroviral engineering, protease inhibi- 
tors and catalysts, grafts, cloned transplants and any number of minor 
medical miracles gives Progenitors a leg (or two) up on physical health 
and recovery. Due to minor enhancements, body tailoring and just dam 
good medical care, a Progenitor heals all damage as if it were one health 
level less severe for time purposes. (This is 10 minutes/ one hour for the 
Bruised level). 
A Progenitor earns one level of Medicine Ability and one level of 
Influence: Medicine as a by-product of working in university medical 
departments for so long. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Convention Disadvantage: Stuck in the Lab 
Progenitors, more than just about any other Conventioneers, 
spend their days (and nights, and weekends) stuck in the lab. Earning 
an M.D. is taxing enough, but Students must prove themselves above 
and beyond the “normal” medical crew. Progenitors cannot begin play 
with more than two Abilities outside their medical study profile. This 
effectively limits Progenitors to mostly having Academics, Biotech, 
Hypertech, Medicine, Research, Science and Technology. Furthermore, no 
Ability can ever be raised above the level of the highest of these - 
thus, 
if a Progenitor wants to learn five levels of an Ability, he must first learn 
five levels in one of his university disciplines (most likely Medicine). 
Forced Adaptation and Clone Alteration Developmental Eugenecists 
(FACADE Engineers) - 
Cloning experts who produce tissue, 
gans and entire bodies. These clones can, with Enlightened 
ience, even take on the memories of their originals, thereby 
orking as replacement bodies or spies, and also serve as raw meat 
manufacture of HIT-Marks and low-grade Men in Black. 
CADE Engineers also perform surgery and trauma care. 
Genegineers - 
Specialists ingenetic manipulationand protein 
recombination. The creations of the Genegineers are born better, 
ster and stronger, but often have unforeseen chaotic side-effects 
om Paradox). Both monsters and supermen come from these 
labs. The sub-division of Damage Control specifically designs bio- 
ly for use against Reality Deviants. 
Phmopoeists - 
Chemists and biologists who examine the 
human body with outside influences and 
ng from herbalism to high-tech pharmaceuticals 
thodology’s purview. Some Pharmacopoeists 
also started researching the interconnectedness of macro- 
the human place in the living world 
e refer to it - 
out of earshot of the New W 
’ I, ‘.-, ..
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SYNDICATE 
“What do you want?” is a signature question of the Syndicate. It’s 
all about money, this Convention claims - 
or, at least, about what 
passes for money. From crude barter to the innovation of coins, then 
paper money, and finally modem credit and debit, the traders and 
financiers have been the grease that lubricated human progress. Medieval 
guildsmen protecting their livelihood formed trade consortiums to 
guarantee their product quality and training; later, these High Guilds 
became powerhouses of the Renaissance, issuing letters of credit that 
could be cashed in faraway cities. Hard currency gave way to portable 
paper with no intrinsic value; only the value that people perceived in 
an otherwise worthless scrap propped up emerging economies. Finally, 
people accepted even invisible currency: the idea of notes or cards that 
symbolized not only a fixed amount but a potential to earn or a chance 
to spend. The transaction of humanity culminates in the Syndicate, 
which places a value on everything and pushes humanity to a society 
where every trade registers in ephemeral energy that tracks everyone’s 
wants and needs. 
Up front, the Syndicate sounds like a cartel - 
criminals and money 
men, shady dealers and con artists. The true Syndicate agent realizes, 
though, that only the desperate trade with criminals; to become a true 
connoisseur of money, one must earn trust. That makes the high-profile 
Syndicateers bond traders, international bankers and investors, but also 
marketing reps, empowerment speakers, even social commentators. 
Other Conventions make things, but it’s the Syndicate that provides 
the luxury of doing so: Without the patronage of the purse-strings, 
there’s no funding for expensive toys. The Syndicate knows who’s 
buying what, be it mundane or Enlightened, and they hold the 
disbursements for many of the Union’s most important projects. While 
some operatives might complain that this unfairly burdens their research 
with Syndicate agendas, the Syndicate itself wisely points out that 
money doesn’t come from nowhere, even with Enlightened Science. 
The Syndicate’s top representatives can smooth out even the most 
ruffled feathers, and in conjunction with the rest of the Union, 
influence the market pricing and introduction of new technology - 
as 
well as buying off politicians and leveraging out entire corporations or 
countries. 
Corporate mentality dominates the Syndicate. As a result, the 
bottom ranks are those who rely on the good graces of the company: the 
Providers, who work indirectly for the Syndicate in return for a paycheck 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


that goes back into the Syndicate's pockets through debts and bills. 
Those who manage to turn around their financial fortunes and realize 
their ability to control transactions may rise to become Associates, who 
are actual (very junior) partners in the Syndicate's pseudo-corporate 
hierarchy. Associates handle day-to-day business for the Syndicate, 
often working mundane jobs while occasionally doing side work 
coordinating larger projects or making sure that a specific account has 
just the right delay or expedite to meet the requests of a supervisor in 
the Convention. Associates who continually show not only financial 
acumen but also social skill move up to Management, and take on 
responsibilities for overseeing entire Syndicate accounts, including 
some of the funding for extra-Convention projects run by the Union. 
Managers have wide-ranging discretionary funding and connections 
throughout dozens of companies and projects of all sizes. Above 
Management are the Chairmen and Vice-Presidents of Operations; the 
former set continental policies and hold voting power over proposed 
projects, while the latter make up the Syndicate's contribution to 
Control and see to the continued financial development of human 
economic systems. 
While some people might accuse the Syndicate of leeching off 
productive angles of society, the Syndicate itself points out that all 
human behavior comes down to trades. Energy is expended in the 
pursuits of survival, entertainment and procreation; that energy can be 
measured and traded, assigned to the same items that might fulfill those 
same desires. The modem Syndicate isn't about money or debt, argue 
its agents: It's about calculating that exchange of energy, figuring out 
how to evaluate efficiencies and place the most favorable transactions 
in places where they'll reap the most output. Forget leveraged buyouts 
with stocks and holding debt over the heads of unwilling accomplices 
- 
the real race now is to form an adaptable, imaginary currency that 
can describe everything humans might trade without needing any solid, 
stealable form. 
Roleplaying Hints: Syndicate agents excel not only in the use of 
money, but also in the social circumstances of the transaction. That 
means they're poised, slick and able to sell anything - 
be it an item or 
a story-at 
a moment's notice. Syndicateers recognize the value of first 
impressions and surroundings, and tend to place themselves in situations 
where they can make an impression through the exercise of their 
incredible finances. 
Specialty Sphere: Entropy 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Common Foci: Credit cards, cell phones, wads of money, elec- 
tronic debit systems, gadgets bought from other Conventions, financial 
reports, economic predictions 
Convention Advantage: Money, Money, Money 
Since the Syndicate’s livelihood hinges on money, every Syndicate 
agent learns to handle and take charge of personal finance early on. A 
Syndicate operative has at least one level of Finance Ability and one 
level of the Resources Background; most have extensive Resources 
beyond this as well. 
Because of their incredible money and their ability to use it well, 
Syndicate ops who have access to their Resources can cash in levels of 
that Background for extra Traits in a Social Challenge. Treat this as a 
normal expenditure of Resources, so money spent this way is used up for 
the game session. Each Background level grants one extra Social Trait, 
and this can be used to initiate a Social Challenge, too; even if the 
challenge is lost, the money is simply spent, and the Resources are used 
for the session but available again at the next game. The Syndicate op 
doesn’t have to use all Resources at one time, but can only declare their 
use before the challenge is entered - 
no fair swinging the vote in mid- 
stride; you either committed your Resources or you didn’t. (This 
typically takes the form of a challenge like “I use my incredible Resources 
to convince you to see things my way.”) 
Convention Disadvantage: Everybody Hates Marketing 
Because of their rumored belief that everyone can be bought, many 
people consider the Syndicate’s agents little more than sleazy hucksters 
(if well-dressed, well-mannered sleazy hucksters). Even the Syndicate’s 
social acumen still only gives them the ability to put off this impression 
in person, and with effort; the Syndicate is often the target of all sorts 
of malicious rumors and slander when other Conventions think that 
nobody’s listening. 
Due to the Syndicate’s extensive bad rep (a lot of it earned), all 
Syndicate agents count as having one less Reputation Trait with all 
other Conventions. A Syndicate op can never gain free access to other 
Conventions’ materials and research - 
the operative must always use 
Resources or equivalent trade (probably calculated with the Finance 
Ability); none of the other Conventions will give anything away for 
free. They’ll only grudgingly part with their hard work, and then only 
for the right price. Of course, a Syndicate agent knows that everyone 
has a price and excels in figuring it out.. . . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Disbursements - 
As the credit holders for the entire Union, 
the Disbursements division sees to funding of all important 
projects and can halt or forward nearly anything with its stamp of 
approval. Every erg of transacted energy that makes its way to the 
Union traces through some accounting line at Disbursements. 
These financiers thus have the power to make or break 
Technocracy projects, regardless of what the other Conventions 
might consider critical or assured. 
Enforcers - 
Any good company needs security, and any 
inal organization needs muscle. The Syndicate is both, so the 
rcers serve double duty, from rep0 men to highly trained 
to simple thugs. Enforcers make sure that people respect 
wer of the Syndicate and of money, and that the bills are 
Financiers - While Disbursements handles internal 
Technocracy funding, the Financiers carefully adjust the world of 
hese super-economists see to the development of 
ational policy, the fate of megacorporations and the future of 
nking. Their wide-ranging vision allows them to take in the 
i 
economic state of the world and make subtle manip 
long-term benefits. 
Media Control - 
There's no sale when there's 
dia Control handles the packaging and perception angle 
rything that the Syndicate and Technocracy sells. From 
ntees to blazing advertisements, Media Control 
ects Division - 
Money may not buy everything, 
hell of a lot, including some impressive toys. 
the Syndicate must rely on the technologies of other 
ions for hardware, the Special Projects Division sees to 
f promising and unique technologies from outside 
cy sphere. This gives the Syndicate access t 
r special patents that other Conventions don 
cases, this means dealing with companies t 
e decidedly Deviant bents, but as long as the money is goo 
is on time, nobody (in the Syndicate, anyway) is 
sures that people want to buy. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


VCEIID 
ENGINEERS 
To touch the stars, to ascend the brightest heaven of invention (in 
a paraphrase of Shakespeare) - 
the motive of exploration is so deep 
that it touches a chord in the human soul that stirs poetry and grandeur. 
Whether from the first primal man who decided to see what was over 
the next hill, or the one who wanted to conquer the night with fire, the 
Void Engineers represent all the impulses to explore the world and 
make it safe for humanity. Travel, once a dire hazard and improbable 
difficulty, bent to the advent of maps, horses, sailing ships - 
and later, 
to the automobile, submarines and even spacecraft. The Void Engineers 
oversaw it all. As the Celestial Masters and the Void Seekers of the 
Renaissance, they sought the twin goals of expanding knowledge of the 
terrestrial sphere and reaching for the heavens. They achieved both 
goals; their early ships set down the oceans and islands into static form, 
making maps that anyone could use to aid travel. Their skyriggers and, 
later, aircraft reached up into the ether and the Void, and although they 
found many horrors, they also found the courage to continue exploring 
in places where Man had no right to tread. Be it in the depths of the 
ocean, the darkest recesses of the Earth, the coldest reaches of space or 
the chaotic realms of other dimensions, the Void Engineers have a 
system to map it, understand it and -perhaps - 
to some day make it 
safe and habitable for Mankind. 
The split between support structure and field work is pronounced 
among the Void Engineers, but nobody enters the Convention without 
a passion for its work. Indeed, many Conventioneers relegated to 
support technologies and mission control long for the chance to explore 
and do so vicariously through their work. The actual explorers and 
fighters of the Convention are some of the toughest men and women 
around. They must be capable of surviving in environments inimical to 
humanity, of adapting and working with incredible precision, since the 
slightest error could be fatal. Worse still, terrible things lurk beyond the 
Dimensional Barrier, and it's the duty of the Void Engineers not only 
to seek out those other dimensions but to protect the Earth from the 
things that would come back. For this reason, the Convention includes 
not only the astronauts and technicians that so many associate with it, 
but also land-based travelers, cartographers, communications engineers, 
vehicle mechanics, soldiers, physicists and propulsion scientists. 
Due to the irrepressible nature of the Engineers - 
everyone would 
be in the field, all the time, if they could - 
relations are relaxed; 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


protocol is informal, except when on task in the field. There’s no room 
for questioning hierarchy when a single slip can kill everyone, after all. 
Internally, low-ranking personnel are Cadets; they learn the ropes, help 
with projections for future missions, study engineering and try to make 
themselves useful while they absorb the knowledge they’ll need later. 
Cadets graduate into Officers, who’re informally classed as Enforcers 
(who perform heavy combat and defense), Explorers (who head out to 
make maps of new places), Investigators (who look into the scientific 
repercussions of strange places) and Researchers (who develop new 
technology for travel). Those Engineers with a desire for greater 
responsibility move up to the rank of Coordinators, who act as command 
staff for entire mission teams, stations or ships. Above this is the “desk 
job” that all pilots dread, the DSEATC: Dimensional Science Evalmtion 
and Training Committee. Since extradimensional travel is the most 
hazardous of the Void Engineers’ jobs, only the most dedicated and 
experienced Engineers have the authority to oversee who undertakes 
Dimensional Science training and travel. 
The Void Engineers have always had a spark of inspiration that 
sometimes seems lacking from other Conventions. Their maverick 
attitudes and drive to see new, wondrous things beyond human 
explanation paint them as loose cannons, but also as visionaries. 
Engineers often see the other Conventions as overly concerned with 
humanity - 
there’s a whole cosmos out there, and it’s too damn big to 
stay focused on such a small subject! On the flip side, the other 
Conventions argue that they must solve humanity’s problems before 
the species is ready for the true jump into transplanetary (and 
transdimensional) civilization. Void Engineers also have contact with 
extra-planetary entities, and sometimes this leaves them a little bit 
changed, and usually not for the better. The rest of the Union keeps a 
close eye on the Engineers to make sure that the Deviants beyond the 
Barrier don’t push the Engineers into wholesale uncontrollability. 
Roleplaying Hints: Void Engineers run the gamut from science- 
oriented professor/ flight controller to heroic explorer/ captain. Most of 
them radiate a raw, tireless stamina. It’s not enough to extrapolate; one 
must see for oneself all the variety the world and the universe has to 
offer. Of course, it’s a dangerous world out there, so it’s up to the 
Engineers to be ready as the first line of defense, too. No nonsense, no 
margin for error, but a whole lot of enthusiasm and attitude. 
Specialty Sphere: Correspondence 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Common Foci: Travel equipment, vehicles, space gear, measuring 
instruments, specially made jumpsuits, maps, planetary charts and 
programs, extrapolation models 
Convention Advantage: Hardened Travelers 
The irrepressible urge to explore causes Void Engineers to develop 
a strong survival instinct and a keen insight into their environment. 
Even those who stay behind often must react on a moment’s notice to 
crisis situations, all the better to provide solutions to teams that could 
otherwise be stranded in inaccessible, hostile areas. A Void Engineer 
has two free Traits from the following list: Alertness, Athletics, Computer, 
Influence: Trumportation, Science, Survival or Technology. The Void 
Engineer must take two separate Traits; both levels can’t be used in the 
same one. 
As the premier experts in Dimensional Science, all Void Engineers 
treat the Dimensional Barrier (the Gauntlet) as two Traits lower for 
themselves and their Effects. 
Convention Disadvantage: Space Case 
Long-term travel in strange conditions with highly technical 
equipment causes many Void Engineers to lose sight of what does and 
doesn’t work quite right on Terra Firma. A Void Engineer in mundane 
society gains one Paradox for performing a coincidental Effect in front 
of Sleepers, although this penalty can’t accrue more than once per 
scene (all further coincidental Effects really are coincidental). This is 
because the Void Engineer uses Procedures or Apparatuses that are 
obviously strange, responds to information he couldn’t plausibly know, 
and otherwise exhibits mannerisms that clearly show to “normal 
people” that the Technocrat is up to something weird. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


~ E T H B D ~ L G G I E S  
Border Corps Division - 
The vaunted “space Marines’’ who 
defend Earth against invaders from space or other dimensions. 
These tough-as-nails troopers also defend ships and Constructs; 
in contrast to the usual stereotype of soldiers, they’re not only 
excellent combatants, but also must be fully skilled in all the 
technologies necessary to survive in hostile turf. The Border 
Corps Division’s troops are well-trained crack survivors who can 
think with the best of them and outfight the best, too. 
Earth Frontier Division - 
From the deep seas to the arctic 
aches to the steaming jungles, the Earth Frontier Division 
explorers continue the job of mapping out the most inaccessible 
regions of the world. They experiment with novelties such as 
underwater habitations or long-range underground travel routes. 
Neutrulizution Specializution Corps -Some extradimensional 
entities seem to be beings of pure energy, yet they manifest and 
molest humanity. The NSC specializes in wiping them out with 
custommade tools and a good background in Dimensional Science. 
The NSC also runs facilities for the treatment of 
unhinged by a close encounter of the spiritual kind. 
an-Dimensional Corps - 
The vaunted extradimensiona 
rers of the Void Engineers sometimes run afoul of Horizon 
and Chantries of the Traditions, which they dutifully 
later destruction. They also explore the reaches of the 
ra where more sensible mages don’t travel, sometimes 
encountering Nephandi, Marauders or even more bizarre crea- 
tures. A rare few even explore time travel or the Digital Web. 
Specialty Sphere: Dimensional Science. 
Research B Execution-With 
grants from the Syndicate and 
aned tech from Iteration X, the R&E group (or “Q Divisio 
andles all the hardware that makes travel possible -constructi 
maintenance of communications arrays, spacecraft and 
ions, as well as new technologies for experimental travel and 
~€ICBRE 
CBN TKHNCECRATS 
The preceding descriptions should give you the means to build 
Technocracy Conventioneers, and the equivalent terms for their 
magical capabilities. Their special character Traits, Backgrounds and 
Abilities are covered in Chapter Three; see Chapter Four for some 
sample Procedures and Devices. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The character creation rules in Laws of Ascension provide plenty 
of options for building Tradition mages. But what about Disparates? Or 
the special Abilities ofTechnocrats? Wondering about how to translate 
some additional Backgrounds? It's all here. This is the meat and bones 
for your character systems: All of the Merits, Flaws, Backgrounds and 
Abilities from the Guide to the Traditions and Technocracy, plus the 
material from Laws of the Ascension that didn't make it before. 
ABILITIES 
The additional Abilities here not only give your mages some variety 
to play around with, they also allow you to explore the expanded 
training available to Technocracy characters. You can use these Abilities 
like any other Ability in your Laws of Ascension game, to perform 
specialized tasks. Most of them have a special benefit as well. 
Abilities marked with "(Traditions)" are intended for mystically 
oriented mages. Abilities marked with "(Technocracy)" assume that 
the character has some level of training in Technocratic or 
Technomagical procedures; a mage can't simply learn Energy Weapons 
without having some way to practice it! 
Important Note: Giving all Abilities some special capability isn't 
necessarily the best idea for all games. In many cases, the base Abilities 
presented in Laws of Ascension will more than cover the activities 
mages do, and any other Abilities added on could be considered Hobby/ 
ProfessionallExpert Abilities. In such games, there's no need to complicate 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


matters by adding on yet more rules, and the Abilities below therefore 
don't necessarily have to use all of the special benefits and challenges 
presented. 
Acting 
As a special form of Performance, you're particularly good at 
pretending to be something that you aren't, or having some emotion 
that you don't really feel. This is essential for a spy as well as for a stage 
performer. You can use a Social Challenge to put on a convincing 
display. Performance entertains; Acting allows you to convincingly 
portray a role and emotion (contrast a stand-up comic with a 
Shakespearean actor). 
You can also use Acting to block an Empathy challenge against you. 
Biotech (Technocracy) 
While Medicine handles all sorts of techniques from mundane 
treatment to surgery, Biotech handles the organic machinery and 
hyperadvanced genetic projects of the Technocracy. Extraordinary 
citizens sometimes master a little bit of this Ability, and most Progenitors 
develop some skill in Biotech along the course of their career. Biotech 
covers the use of cloned organs, genetically engineered materials and all 
the machines that make, store and use them. Essentially, it's like a 
highly advanced version of Medicine, as far above Medicine as Medicine 
would be beyond simple first aid. 
Progenitors use Biotech in conjunction with many specialty foci. 
Biotech is also necessary to understand and operate Technocratic 
biological machinery and living Devices. 
Conspiracy Theory 
Some would consider it a form of history or perhaps a type of 
politics. You know better: Conspiracy Theory explains the way that the 
world works, according to the hidden principles that They don't want 
you to know. You know enough to know about it - 
the question is, will 
you survive once They know you know? 
Use Conspiracy Theory like aformoflme: Youcangather information 
about the tangled webs of networks and possible connections between 
shadowy organizations. While Conspiracy Theory never offers solid, 
concrete information, it can offer possibilities about who's behind a 
plot or why some groups are suddenly working together. As a rule of 
thumb, the more convoluted the plot, the more effective this Ability is 
at rooting it out. Conspiracy Theory doesn't necessarily grant knowledge 
of people's Reputation Traits (that's Politics); rather, it tells you about 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the ones who don’t have a Rep because they want to remain hidden. 
The exact knowledge implied by this Ability is best left to the Storyteller; 
it may not be useful or appropriate for all games. 
Construct Politics (Technocracy) 
Unlike the politics of the Masses, the Technocratic Union relies on 
advanced sociology. Management is more efficient, bureaucracy is less 
wasteful, and the politics are less dangerous. Usually. The downside of 
this is that the structures often don’t make immediate sense to the 
uneducated. You’ve survived long enough to know your way around the 
Constructs, though, and you know who’s who. 
Use Construct Politics to unearth the Reputation of Technocrats 
who’re attached to a Horizon Construct. Since the Horizon Constructs 
have limited contact with Earth and often have their own (experimental) 
social structures, this Ability is invaluable for determining who’s really 
in charge and how to go about getting things done. Essentially, this is 
a special form of Politics that works for Technocratic advanced 
bureaucracy in the same way that Hypertech compares to Technology or 
Biotech to Medicine. 
Covert Culture 
Spies, secret agencies and government ops are right up your alley. 
You don’t waste your time on frivolous strange conspiracies or on the 
mundane aspects of police work. Rather, you concern yourself with the 
agencies that actually do things: Mossad, MI-6, the Readiness Agency 
and similar groups. And you know a lot about them. 
Like Conspiracy Theory, this is a specific form of h e .  In this case, 
this is information regarding secret agencies, spies and (non- 
Technocratic) government operatives. You should use Covert Culture 
to navigate such groups and to understand Influence: Espionage. You 
also can probably look up information about the groups, what they do, 
who works for them and what range of jurisdiction they have, given 
enough time. 
Cryptography 
Public encryption keys are quickly becoming a thing of the past. 
Ciphers and substitution codes are laughable child’s play. Through 
intuition, pattern recognition and large number theory, you can crack 
just about any code known to man - 
and maybe a few that aren’t! 
Use Cryptography to try to decipher coded messages that your 
Storyteller introduces. Even if you can’t decipher it, you can usually tell 
a coded message from random static and maybe tell what sort of code 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


was used (say, if you're picking up signals over a radio or computer). If 
your Storyteller decides to give you cryptographical puzzles, you can 
expend a Cryptogruphy Ability to gain one of two benefits (depending 
on whether your Storyteller wants to stretch out the time to solve the 
puzzle): You can either gain more time to solve it, equal to the time you 
normally would have (so three Cryptography Traits turn a one-minute 
puzzle into a four-minute one), or you can choose a letter and have all 
instances of that letter revealed a la Wheel of Fortune. 
You may need other Abilities for certain codes. For example, you 
might recognize a fractal pattern as a code because of your Cryptography, 
but without Science: Fractals you probably couldn't decipher it. Similarly, 
you would recognize Navajo code-talking but couldn't understand it 
without appropriate Linguistics. 
Empathy 
You're sensitive to people's emotions. This can be an upside, when 
you catch someone lying to you. It can also be a downer, when you find 
yourself sharing in the misery of one of your friends. Still, the ability to 
see where someone's coming from helps you to win trust and also to 
figure out the real motives behind the people you deal with. 
You can use an Empathy challenge to determine the general 
emotional state of someone you're dealing with, if you can best the 
target in a Social Challenge. This might be agitated, angry, afraid, sad, 
moody, withdrawn or any number of other things; this can sometimes 
give you a clue to the subject's motives. 
Energy Weapons (Technocracy) 
Void Engineer space Marines and Iteration X grunts can't always 
rely onsimple projectile weapons. Guns don't fire inspace or underwater, 
and don't always have the power to take out threatening Deviants. 
Fortunately for humanity, the Union has and uses various forms of 
Energy Weapons: Lasers, plasma casters, shockers, particle beams and 
what- have-you. These weapons differ markedly from Firearms, and 
someone used to normal Firearms will find the advanced energy 
technology and the lack ofrecoil rather difficult to adjust to. Furthermore, 
Energy Weapons Ability covers the maintenance and minor repair of 
such weapons. 
YoucanuseMentalChallenges to attackwithhnergy Weapons, just 
like using Firearms with guns. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Note that while the Technocracy most commonly uses Energy 
Weapons, some Technomancers (especially Sons of Ether) occasionally 
build various "ray guns" as well, and could use this Ability. 
Helmsman (Technocracy) 
It's one thing to drive a car or pilot an airplane. It's another thing 
entirely to learn the three-dimensional tactics and incredibly complex 
operations necessary to pilot a Void Engineer spacecraft. This highly 
specialized Ability covers just such an occasion. While you probably 
won't spend a lot of time in spacecraft, getting from place to place can 
be difficult if nobody knows how to start the engines. 
You must have Helmsman Ability to operate a Void Engineer 
spacecraft; guesswork isn't enough. The Storyteller may impose various 
challenges for piloting the craft through asteroids, into combat, landing 
and through other such hazards. 
Sons of Ether can also use the Helmsman Ability with their 
etherships. 
High Ritual (Traditions) 
You're a master of pomp and circumstance. You know exactly 
where the candles go, how the invocation reads and which color of 
drapes to use for the best effect. You can take into account Resonance, 
the participants' personalities, your own knowledge and the limitations 
of your budget and still come up with a ritual that will not only succeed 
in amplifying your magic, but will look damn cool, too. 
Play out your performance of High Ritual for a short time (assuming 
you're in a private location). You can expend a High Ritual Ability 
thereafter as a downtime action to extend your rite into the realm of 
Superhuman Ritual (see Laws of Ascension p. 140). Each level allows 
you to tack on one more grade of casting time, and thus one more grade 
of success. Of course, once you're done, you likely collapse from 
exhaustion and sleep for about 16 hours. Alternatively, you can use your 
High Ritual to grant a single retest to one other participant who fails a 
challenge when attempting to aid you in a cooperative rite. 
Hypertech (Technocracy) 
There's technology, and then there are toys. The Technocratic 
Union has at its fingertips access to some of the most amazing devices 
never seen by man. Of course, Enlightened Scientists can learn to use 
these incredible Devices by rote, but you actually understand some of 
the super-advanced abstractions of science that make them work. In 
theory, anyway. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Apparatuses; otherwise, you’re limited to using the equipment that 
your Convention supplies. With Hypertech you can puzzle out and 
possibly even repair damaged Technocratic equipment, subject to 
making a Mental Challenge (difficulty varies at the Storyteller’s 
discretion, but usually eight or more Traits). 
Sometimes you need information. Sometimes the informant doesn’t 
want to talk. If you don’t want to work over the target physically, this 
requires a level of psychological finesse. You may not be a psychologist, 
but you sure know how to read people. You can get them to talk, and 
more importantly, you understand how to draw conclusions from what 
they’re not saying. Given enough time, you can crack some of the 
hardiest minds, but that’s not even necessary - 
you’re good enough 
that you can get them to betray themselves without breaking them. 
Use Interrogation in a Social Challenge to gather information from 
a subject. You can ask one yes/ no question up to 10 words in length. 
Expend an Interrogation Ability and make the challenge; if you win, the 
subject must answer truthfully with “Yes,” “No,” or “I don’t know.” A 
question based on an assumption that’s partially false counts as false 
(and generates a “NO” answer). The subject can defend with Acting. 
Using Interrogation in this fashion requires a full scene/ hour uninterrupted 
with the subject and can’t be done under duress (that is, you can’t 
Interrogate someone if you’re both hanging from manacles in a prison or 
while you’re being shot at; you must be in asituationof clear superiority). 
’ 
Jetpack (Technocracy) 
The Masses already have jetpack technology, but it’s shaky, 
expensive, unreliable and just not very good. Technocratic jetpacks, of 
course, are much, much better. You’re trained in the use of such 
jetpacks. Thanks to widespread televising of early jetpack experiments, 
most such jetpacks are now considered entirely coincidental and 
accepted by the Masses. 
UseJetpack as your piloting skill if you’re flying with a jetpack and 
in a dangerous situation, such as trying to pull up from the last minute 
to avoid a building, or flying between tight canyons at high speed. 
Proper use of aJetpuck can give you great mobility advantages (see p. 
XX). Without this Ability, a character is limited to normal walking 
movement with a jetpack. 
Jury-Rig 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


but 
it a 
You may not know how things are put together or why they work, 
you've got the knack of putting the right wires together and giving 
little duct tape to make things almost as good as new. Subject to 
having a few handy tools like a spool of metal wire and some chewing 
gum, you can often get one or two more uses out of the most crazily high- 
tech item. 
When an item's destroyed (reduced to zero Traits or health levels), 
you canJury-Rig it to bring it back to minimal functionality. Expend a 
Jury-Rig Ability and make a Mental Challenge with a difficulty of three 
times the object's normal Trait value - 
so an object that normally 
provides one bonus Trait has a difficulty of three. If you succeed, the 
item goes back up to one Trait. You can'tlury-rig something above one 
Trait, and the item breaks again immediately after you use it. You can 
repeatedly Jury-Rig the same item, but the difficulty increases by one 
Trait each time. You canJury-rig just about anything that the Storyteller 
allows, subject to time and materials - 
some duct tape might Jury-Rig 
a knife back into functionality for one hit, but you probably couldn't 
Jury-Rig a Void Engineer space cruiser that rammed an asteroid. 
Law Enforcement 
Technocratic agents in the field often have to work with police or 
local law agencies. Tradition mages often find themselves on the run 
from those same groups. In either case, a working knowledge of the 
group is more than helpful, it's practical survival. Police don't like 
outsiders taking their cases, after all, so knowing how to appease them 
helps smooth along the transition. By the same token, if you know what 
the police are going to do, you have a better chance of getting away. 
Law Enforcement acts again as a special type of Lore much like 
Covert Culture. You know the patterns of local law enforcement, their 
techniques, who'd be put on an investigation (a coroner, a detective or 
some other specialist), and what sorts of paperwork they fill out. You 
don't necessarily know specific people; that's the purview of Influence: 
Police. You do, however, have a good idea of what the reaction will be 
if you perform a specific criminal act, or need to work with the police, 
sheriff or other duly appointed badge-wearing representative. 
Microgravity Operations (Technocracy) 
The Void Engineers naturally spend a lot of time in space, and 
sometimes they bring other Conventioneers with them for specialty 
missions. You've been trained to handle the rigors of low gravity, and 
can handle spacewalking, ship operations and lunar travel with a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of their umbilical tethers, you’re floating upside-down and backward, 
getting a lovely view of the stars. 
Normally, when in microgravity (that is, on the moon, in space, on 
a ship with no gravity and so on), characters can’t use Abilities at all. 
You can use Abilities normally as long as you have at least one level of 
Microgravity Operations. You never lose your bearings and become 
confused by direction, nor do you suffer nausea due to microgravity 
(characters exposed to microgravity for the first time should make a 
Static Physical Challenge, six Trait difficulty, or be subjected to vertigo 
and incapacitating nausea for a full conflict/ 10 minutes). You use 
Microgravity Operations as your Ability to direct yourself in potentially 
hazardous free-fall situations, such as to slip out from between two slow- 
moving but heavy objects that might crush you or to avoid coming loose 
from the ship’s hull and floating off into Jupiter. 
Sons of Ether who spend a lot of time on etherships may also 
develop Microgravity Operations Ability. 
Talking to a lone individual is one thing. Reaching an entire 
audience is another. Preparing something to offend the least people and 
attract the most attention takes a lot of careful thought. Of course, 
sometimes you want to offend people in order to grab their attention. 
You know all of this, and how to do it, and when, and why. When it 
absolutely, positively has to have a sound bite, you’re the one to do it. 
You know how to best place and use media coverage. In conjunction 
with Influence: Media, this Ability allows you to make strong campaigns 
with the connections you have. Normally, when you invoke Media 
Influence, you kill a specific story, get an advance story or place a small 
publication. Using Media Ability in conjunction with your Influence, 
you can block an effort to kill a story (if you spend as many Media Ability 
Traits as the opposing individual), or you can guarantee that it shows 
up on everyone’s doorstep (if you have at least one Media Ability left to 
use after canceling attempts to kill the story, you should ask the 
Storyteller to make sure that your story appears in a hand-out with all 
of the character sheets at the beginning of the appropriate game 
The trick lies in making both sides feel like they got a good deal. 
Soothe egoes, make compromises and come out on top - 
that’s the 
. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


trick of Negotiation. You can tell when to put on pressure, when to ease 
off, when to play things up and when to look like you’re on the losing 
end. Most importantly, this helps you in cross-dealings when you need 
tit-for-tat. 
You canuseNegotiation in conjunction with your various Backgrounds 
that normally gamer aid (but not information). Your Negotiation 
Ability allows you a retest on the use of such a Background. For instance, 
if your Mentor refuses to help you, you can use Negotiation for a retest to 
see if you can convince her otherwise. 
Networking 
It’s all in who you know. You can make contacts on the fly, figure 
out the power structures and milk your information sources for all the 
right dirt. With a few hours and a bunch of phone calls, you can usually 
dig up a little information about - 
well, just about anything. 
Use Networking Ability in lieu of an established information 
network. If you don’t have Contacts or a similar Background, you can 
rely on Networking instead. Networking has several disadvantages by 
comparison, though. It takes you a full scene/ hour to perform a use of 
Networking. You only gain information to answer one question or 
investigate one rumor. You must still make a Social Challenge with a 
difficulty determined by a Storyteller. Use of Networking does not 
generate a permanent social network; it just represents your ability to 
pull together bits and pieces of information from a few contacts and 
some hastily researched paperwork. Some information may be outside 
the scope of Networking. On the flip side, Networking doesn’t count 
against your uses of Contacts, so you can potentially gain even more 
information if you spend enough time. 
Newspeak 
Control the language and you control the thoughts, Orwell asserted 
- 
and he was right. It’s a known fact that languages drift, but you’re 
plugged into the new jazz and spinning the verbage out faster than 
anyone candecrypt it. WithNewspeak, you turnwords toyour advantage 
and make them mean what you want them to mean, instead of feeling 
constrained to formal, traditional vocabulary. 
You can bum a Newspeak Ability to place a subtext into one 
sentence. Only other characters with Newspeak will gain this subtext. 
The subtext can only be two words. This can be in any mode of 
communication: You could blather out a sentence in person, over a 
megaphone, by computer, by Internet, written on paper - 
ultimately, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


anyone who reads or hears it may gain the subtext, subject to having 
Newspeak Ability. Deciphering a subtext doesn’t cost a use of the 
Ability. 
Pilot 
Rotorhead, stick-jock, jetboy - 
you’ve heard them all, and if it has 
wings (fixed or rotary) you’ve flown it. You’re familiar with how to 
handle planes, helicopters and hovercraft. Anything that floats on air 
is your baby. 
Use Pilot in conjunction with dangerous maneuvers in a plane, jet, 
helicopter or hovercraft. You can’t operate such a vehicle without the 
Pilot Ability. 
Power-Brokering 
Instead of making connections and wheedling with random people, 
you head straight for the top. By bullying your way past secretaries and 
slash-and-burning through red tape, you may not make friends, but you 
can certainly get things done. Of course, if your interpersonal skills 
aren’t up to par, you might get into position to talk to someone who’s 
just powerful enough to give you a swift kick to the head, but if you’re 
suave enough, you can bring the real power players together. 
Unlike Negotiation, this Ability doesn’t represent interpersonal 
communication skills; unlike Networking, it’s highly targeted. You 
specifically find the people who can get things done in an organization, 
and you bring them together to accomplish a task. When you invoke 
your Power-Brokering Ability, you can combine your Influence, Contacts, 
Allies and similar aiding Backgrounds with other characters. Each level 
of Power-Brokering expended (to call up people and bum a few bridges) 
lets you bring one additional person’s Backgrounds into the group. You 
can add these Backgrounds as noted in the optional rule for Stacking 
Backgrounds on p. XX at double efficiency: That is, a character with 
one level of Contacts counts as having two levels for stacking purposes 
only. 
Propaganda 
You’ve run smear campaigns with the worst of them. You don’t just 
sell things to the public - 
you get them to feel strongly about whatever 
you tell them, and you make them believe it. 
By using your Propaganda Ability between games (it remains 
expended for the game in which it’s set to take effect), you can briefly 
augment or hamper someone’s Reputation Traits. Each expended 
Propaganda Ability allows the subject to recoup an expended Reputation 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Trait, so that although it doesn’t count as additional Traits, it’s useable 
more than once because it refreshes immediately. Or, you can cause one 
(and only one) Negative Reputation Trait on a subject to count as two 
Traits. 
Psychology 
The workings of the human mind are laid bare to you. Behavior 
patterns and defenses are all clear. Well, perhaps not clear -humans 
are unpredictable and Psychology isn’t an exact science. You do, though, 
have a better idea than average of what motivates people and why they 
do things. 
You can use Psychology in conjunction with a Social Challenge to 
discern someone’s current Demeanor. Given a full hour of time to study 
a subject, you can also use a Social Challenge to try to learn the subject’s 
Nature, or to change the Demeanor for the next scene to a Demeanor 
of your choosing. 
RD Data (Technocracy) 
The Technocratic Union keeps files on all sorts of Reality 
Deviants- 
extensive files. You’ve read some. Maybe you’ve even 
encountered some of those Deviants. Be that as it may, you know about 
some of the dangers that humanity doesn’t. Sometimes it makes you 
wish that you were blissfully ignorant. 
RD Data is the Technocratic term for specific Lore regarding 
supernatural creatures. It’s tightly controlled; the Union regards it as a 
“need-to-know” information resource. 
Security 
You fiddle with traps, electronic locks, scanners, motion sensors. In 
addition to knowing how to operate them, you know how to beat them. 
Whether it’s with simple lockpicks or sophisticated electronic bypasses, 
odds are you can figure out a way around the system - 
or find a way to 
close an existing loophole. 
Use your Security Ability to make challenges to set up or penetrate 
existing Security operations. For instance, you would use Security to set 
up a network of cameras in a building, with your Mental Traits as the 
difficulty that someone else would have to use Security to find a way to 
bypass it. Security with a Dexterity-related Physical Trait could pick a 
physical lock. You can also use Security to examine blueprints and look 
for holes in a building’s security. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


You've studied the myriad layers of quantum uncertainty and 
universal shear. Using string resonances and other obscure theories, 
In game terms, this Ability works like Cosmology for Technocrats. 
Instead of granting knowledge of spirits and secret Umbral realms, it 
covers in detail areas that Technocrats frequent: Horizon Constructs, 
machine realms, parallel worlds and other "scientific" dimensions. 
There's an art to fostering absolute, sheer, abject, mind-numbing 
terror. Sometimes it involves bombs and demonstrations. Other times, 
it's all about the subtlety of things that prey on the weak mind. From 
bomb-slinging to psychological warfare, you've practiced them all. To 
the wrong people, you are a monster. 
The Terrorism Ability gives you specific knowledge of terrorist 
organizations and techniques, much like a Lore Ability. No specific 
mechanic or challenge applies; rather, you can gather information 
about what techniques would be effective in a given situation, what 
group might have something to gain from a specific action, or who's 
faking a terrorist attack in order to draw attention off. 
First they beg. Then they scream. Then they bleed. 
You understand how to drag out pain and punishment. Whether as 
know the most effective ways to injure without killing, to keep someone 
alive through mutilation and to keep someone conscious for the whole 
procedure. You know how to take advantage of specific fears and how 
to stimulate suffering that your victims wouldn't believe possible. 
to try to deliver agony without causing fatal damage. If you win, your 
"tender ministrations" cause the subject to lose a Willpower Trait 
instead of a health level. If you desire, after stripping all temporary 
Willpower Traits, you can even cause the victim to lose permanent 
Willpower with further applications. A subject reduced to zero 
permanent Willpower is little more than an utterly insane, vegetative 
I : 
I . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


lump (apply the derangement: Catatonia). Applying torture requires 
special equipment and can’t be done in a hurry. Given enough time, 
though, you will either break or kill the subject. 
Naturally, making someone lose permanent Willpower is pretty 
nasty, but if you’ve already got the subject in that position, you could 
have presumably killed him anyway, so.. . . 
Vice 
There’s an entire subculture to the criminal underworld, one that’s 
not open to people who don’t know the lingo. This isn’t the penny-ante 
trade of the street hustlers and the signs of the gang-bangers, either. It’s 
also in the high-class prostitutes, the secret gambling dens and the posh 
parties where stars come to get strung out of their minds. 
Your Vice Ability works in a fashion similar to Streetwise, allowing 
you to make specific contacts and avoid trouble. Where Streetwise works 
with street culture, gangs and thugs, though, Vice deals specifically in 
the seedy elements that cater to illegal pleasures. You can find opium 
dens, strip joints that house prostitution, adult film stores that make 
their own porn in the back, and nastier, scarier things. Your Vice Ability 
can help you to navigate these places safely without seeming like a narc 
or becoming caught up in someone else’s schemes. 
BACKGR~UNDS 
The additional Backgrounds presented here, like the Abilities 
presented previously, are sometimes marked (Technocracy) or 
(Traditions). Again, these delineate Backgrounds that are specifically 
appropriate to the group in question. 
Backup (Technocracy) 
Due to your rank in the Union, you have the ability to call up some 
additional muscle when the situation warrants it. This isn’t exactly 
skilled muscle (they’re not Allies), but rather a pool of faceless minions 
from the Union’s rank-and-file proles - 
er, citizens. 
Backup can be very hard to portray in a live-action game, because 
you’ll typically need other people in order to represent the Backup that 
shows up. You can handle this in one of several ways. First, you can 
simply decide that Backup is too egregious and not allow it. Second, you 
can hold some Narrators in reserve, or use the recommended system of 
having some players take a little time each game to play Narrator 
characters, in order to represent Backup. Third, you can simply issue 
cards for Backup, which must be prominently displayed. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Backup typically takes a scene to arrive. Each level of Backup grants 
one additional warm body with normal human Attributes (you decide 
the character's strength in Mental, Physical or Social). You might suffer 
some repercussions if your Backup dies, but in general these are people 
expected to work in a dangerous job and to serve in the line of duty. 
When multiple characters get together they sometimes 
for large and impressive actions. For instance, several mag 
Resources x3 might go in together to purchase an expensive 
dditional levels remain. 
thing with the equivalent of Resources x4, he'd need 
three) or two other people with Resources x3, or s 
ombination that added up to six levels. 
The Chancrj Background provides a special exception to th 
than his total Attribute Traits. Donated Influence co 
this limit, making it very difficult to coordinate large-sca 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ADVERSARIAL 
BACKGRWNDS 
The Guide to the Traditions presents a sort of “negative 
Background,” the adversarial Background. While this could be 
adapted into live-action play, it’s a difficult proposition to do so. 
In a tabletop game, the Storyteller always has control of the story 
to consideration. In a live-action game, a single character’s 
indrance won’t always come‘to the fore like this, especially if 
e Traditions should suffice. 
Blessing (Traditions) 
You’ve got it - 
some natural, inherent magical quality. It’s not an 
item you carry or apower from a familiar; it’s just something in you. You 
might’ve been born with it, or maybe you gained a Blessing from a spirit 
or demon. 
A Blessing functions just like a power in a Wonder, except that it’s 
part of you. It has a cost equal to the level of Spheres required to make 
it work, doubled if it’s always on. Subject to your Storyteller’s approval, 
this could allow you to heal quickly, have a permanent supernatural 
sense, or just make you always manage to get a date when you go 
clubbing. 
Cult (Traditions) 
You have a group of people who support your magic and believe in 
its power. While they don’t provide specific additional help - 
they’re 
not competent to do special jobs, nor do they have access to unusual 
information - 
they are good for one thing: When you get them all 
together, they can help in the casting of ritual magic. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Background. If you have access to your Cult, you can expend its levels 
for the session to treat this as gaining additional Sleeper helpers in a 
ritual (see p. 138 of Laws of Ascension). You don't have to use them 
all at once, or all in the same ritual. Remember, your Cult can desert you 
if you don't keep them motivated, and they can be hunted down, jailed 
or disbanded by your enemies if you don't protect them. 
Chantry/ Construct 
You're part of a group that holds territory in a place designed 
specifically for study and improvement. Your turf might have a Library, 
a resident Mentor, a small Sanctum for your style of magic or any number 
of other benefits. By sharing it with your friends, you all contribute and 
make the place better. It could be as simple as a small coffee shop that 
you all jointly own or as magnificent as a restored turn-of-the-century 
All of the mages in a given C h n q  may contribute Background 
levels to it. Every two levels in the Chanq gives it one shared level of 
one of the following: Arcane, Destiny, Library, Wonder, Sanctum, 
Mentor, Allies, Retainers, Cult, Influence, Fame or aReputationTrait. In 
this case, the Chntry itself hosts these benefits, but any contributing 
member (that is, a character with levels spent into it) may call upon 
these benefits. This allows the Chuntry to collectively give the characters 
access to many more Backgrounds than they would have on their own. 
Note also that a C h n q  isn't always supported completely by the 
characters; a bunch of poor characters in a wealthy Chantry are probably 
members alongside a wealthy mage who subsidizes it. 
The C h n q ' s  furnishings come out of its Background level. A 
Chntry with no Resources is little more than a ramshackle hut in some 
out-of-the-way park corner. A C h n q  without a Node has no Horizon 
Realm. 
Demesne (Traditions) 
You have a stretch of dream-territory with which you're familiar. 
Whenever you sleep, you go there, and sometimes you can even control 
or shape it. The Dream Realm that you command is fluid and malleable 
to your will, and with the right magic you can even trap other dreamers 
there and subject them to your powers, or use it as a jumping-off point 
to enter the Umbra through dreams. 
Your Demesne represents the area and control you have over a 
dream-realm that you visit whenever you dream. With Mindmagic, you 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


can pull other people into that realm; with Spirit, you can use it as a 
jump-off point. Your Dream Realm typically has an area of effect based 
on the grades of success for area, with your number of levels as the 
grades. Thus, a one-Trait Demesne is a single room, but a five-Trait 
Demesne stretches across an entire Dream continent. You can also add 
your Demesne Traits to all challenge resolution against other dreamers 
who enter your Dream Realm. Within your Demesne, the reality bends 
to your will, but if you're not careful, it is possible to spawn elements that 
can harm you as well. In all other ways the Dreamscape is essentially 
similar to a Mindscape (see Laws of Ascension p. 176). 
Enhancement 
Due to genetic engineering, grafts or bionic implants, you've been 
made.. . more than human. Or perhaps just different. 
You can choose to be cybernetically or biologically enhanced - 
one or the other. A cyborg has bionic implants that provide weaponry, 
armor, replacements to organs and other such useful gadgetry. A 
genegineered human typically has superior physiological capabilities, 
often with enhanced mental ability as well. 
Cyborg: Your cybernetic enhancements cause Paradox because 
they're not yet accepted in the Consensus. Eachlevel of the Background 
grants one permanent Paradox Trait that counts for backlashes but 
never goes away. Each level allows you to purchase one additional 
Attribute Trait (which can take you above your normal maximum) or 
two Traits of implanted Devices. Naturally, you're still limited to Devices 
that can fit in your body, and no Devices above five Traits. Thus, you can 
have implanted armor or a plasma cannon, but not a car. 
Biomod: Your biological modifications cause physiological disorders. 
Choose one Negative Trait for every level you take in the Enhancement, 
or one Derangement for every two levels. You gain one additional 
Attribute Trait (above normal human maximums) or two Traits of 
biological modifications. 
Familiar/ Companion 
Whether it's a traditional black cat, a ferret, a favored horse or even 
a tiny dragonet, you have some sort of bonded companion that shares 
a link with your very spirit. You may or may not realize the depth of this 
link (Technocrats often think their Companions are simply very clever 
pets), but you can gain many benefits from your Familiar's presence. 
You spend levels from your Familiar Background, when you choose 
it, to gain certain benefits for your Familiar. The Familiar is essentially 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


a small physical creature invested with a spirit that has become bound 
to you. 
A Familiar automatically serves as an arcane connection for you. 
Thus, you can affect with magic anything your Familiar touches, but the 
reverse is also true. The Familiar serves as part of a pact (perhaps 
unspoken) that requires your attention and perhaps some effort on your 
part; you can take elements of this pact as Flaws to reduce the cost of the 
Familiar (for instance, if your Familiar requires you to compose eccentric 
poetry to it and read it aloud at cabal meetings, this is probably an 
obnoxious one- or two-Trait Flaw). Your Familiar can take on your own 
Paradox and suffer the backlash from it, although this typically requires 
some level of incentive. Finally, a Familiar requires a supply of Quintes- 
sence; generally this is one Quintessence Trait per week per level of the 
Familiar, or else it fades away, loses its powers or otherwise becomes inert 
until fed. 
For one Trait, the Familiar can talk; for two Traits, it can 
communicate with telepathy with anyone in sensory range, regardless 
of language. 
The Familiar can have countermagic Traits equal to the Traits you 
place into that capability, and you gain this while you are physically in 
contact with the Familiar. 
You can grant the Familiar special Lore on a one-Trait-for-one- 
Lore-level basis. 
Your Familiar can nullify one Trait of Paradox per game session per 
Trait spent on Paradox nullification. 
For one Trait, your Familiar can be an unusual form of an otherwise 
natural creature, like a dog with a prehensile tail. For two Traits, it can 
be clearly unnatural, such as a multicolored, six-legged frog. 
For one Trait, your Familiar can have two extra health levels or two 
extra Physical Traits. 
For one Trait, your Familiar can be larger than cat-sized, up to horse- 
sized. 
Legend (Traditions) 
You are literally a living legend. You’re the reincarnation of some 
legendary ideal; when you live up to that ideal, you generate energy like 
a Node. Quintessence gathers from the strength of the Consensus and 
people’s belief in the Legend. 
Choose a specific Legend associated with your character. You might 
be a reincarnation of Jack the Ripper, or the home of all the legends 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


associated with Achilles. When you behave according to your Legend, 
you generate Quintessence just like a Node. Someone else can tap this 
Quintessence by participating in your Legend. For instance, if you are a 
Legend of Jack the Ripper, you gain Quintessence by stalking and trying 
to kill prostitutes; the victim in question can gain Quintessence (if she 
survives) by playing out that role. If you are a Legend of Achilles, you 
would gain Quintessence for going on a mad rampage through an enemy 
fortification, especially if the enemies just defeated one of your friends. 
Treat Quintessence generated in this fashion (including limits per 
session) the same as you would a No&. 
Past Lives (Traditions) 
Ancient days and half-remembered events flash before your eyes. 
Your Avatar carries memories, and sometimes they open up and reveal 
to you the lives that the Avatar has guided before. While this can be 
disconcerting, it can also be very helpful when you need to draw out 
specific knowledge of the past. 
Spend a turn in concentration of your Past Life to bring forth images 
from it, then make a Simple Test. If you win or tie, you can expend a 
Past Life level to gain a level in one Ability appropriate to the life (for 
instance, you couldn't gain Microgravity Operations from a Past Life in 
Han Dynasty China). You can spend multiple levels of Past Life but 
must make a Simple Test for each. On a failure, you spend the Trait, but 
gain no benefit this time. 
Requisitions (Technocracy) 
A typical Technocrat can't afford energy weapons and hyperdense 
body armor - 
not to mention rooms full of surveillance equipment and 
spaceships. That's what Requisitions are for: An agent doesn't have to 
own these things. The Technocracy does, and it provides when necessary. 
If you fill out the right paperwork - and your bosses think it's 
worthwhile - 
you can get your hands on special gear for your missions. 
When you invoke Requisitions, you can access special Technocracy 
equipment that's not normally available. Each level of Requisitions 
counts as two levels of Influence or Resources to gamer a specific item. 
You must make a Simple Test (win or tie). If you lose, your request isn't 
granted in time, or the items aren't available, or for whatever reason you 
just don't get the goods. You may test separately for each item, though. 
Sanctum/ Laboratory 
Over time, a mage's influence can bend and warp the Tapestry in 
a specific place. That place becomes attuned to the mage and familiar 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


with his magic. You have just such a place: a Sanctum. A Sanctum offers 
a hiding ground and, more importantly, a safe haven for magic. Within 
a Sanctum, all rules of magic are those of the owner. Your Sanctum 
follows your paradigm; your magic is coincidental there, while other 
magic is vulgar. Your years of work - 
often a decade or more in one 
place - 
have made it your mystical home. 
A Sanctum is attuned to you and only you. Unless someone has a 
remarkably similar paradigm (perhaps an apprentice), the Sanctum 
won't work for the individual. In rare cases, old Chanties sometimes 
have small Sancta that act with a paradigm broad enough to encompass 
an entire Tradition's practices, and to work for any member of that 
Tradition. (Such Sanctu are part of a Chncty package and not available 
to individual characters except through development in play). 
Your magic is completely coincidental in a Sanctum. This trumps 
any other consideration: You can heal vulgar wounds, create elements, 
enchant weapons - 
anything you desire. You must still make all of the 
normal challenges and pay the normal costs. Magic that you send 
outside of your Sanctum, such as a ranged attack or enchanted item, is 
subject to Unbelief; the Paradox that you would normally gamer from 
such an Effect applies to the Effect instead of you, and probably weakens 
or warps it. Thus, you can't easily send screaming bolts of death halfway 
across the world to coincidentally kill your foe, but you can repair your 
damaged foci, heal yourself and conjure a few spirits for advice. 
The size of your Sanctum depends upon the level of the Background: 
One Trait - 
A circle, one pace across 
Two Traits - 
A small room, five paces 
Three Traits - 
A workshop, 10 paces 
Four Traits - 
A house, 30 paces 
Five Traits - 
A manor, one hundred paces 
Secret Weapons (Technocracy) 
Q Division fills out the forms and hands you special Devices that're 
still on the drawing board. Instead of using the usual goods, you get to 
try out the new stuff. Sure, sometimes it's buggy as hell, but it's also stuff 
that nobody else will even see for a year. 
You can use your Secret Weapons Background like Requisitions, 
except that it allows access specifically to Devices. In concert with your 
Storyteller, you can design special new Devices according to the usual 
rules for Wonders. Subject to this approval, you can then try out the 
Device. As with Requisitions, each level of Secret Weapons counts as two 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


levels for the Device. In this case, though, the Device is untested; the 
Storyteller will always assign it some secret Flaw or Flaws equal to half 
its total value. You only get to use the Device for one session. (You also 
need to fill out paperwork about how it worked - 
or didn't - 
afterward, but that's a job for downtime.) 
Spies (Technocracy) 
You have a network of informants who watch your enemies' every 
moves. Just a couple calls and you can have your men keeping watch for 
specific actions or people, and returning to you with information about 
what's going on. 
You use Spies in your downtime. Allocate your Spies to different 
characters (player or Narrator). EachSpy returns to you at the beginning 
of the next session with information about what the individual is doing 
with one Background. For instance, if you send two Spies after your 
nemesis who's using his Influence: Health and his Contacts, your Spies 
will come back and tell you that he's doing so, and what he's asked them 
to do. 
Note that your Spies can be detected with other Spies, or by properly 
directed use of other Backgrounds. 
These rules only work if you want a crop of diverse mages at the risk of 
huving some overused or abusive powers that you may not foresee. 
Some heroic (or even otherwise mundane) individuals possess 
capabilities beyond the norm - 
twists of fate, chance knacks or 
advantages beyond usual skill and talent. Others have, like the Greek 
heroes, tragic flaws of character that impede or harm. These are Merits 
and Flaws. 
You must have Storyteller permission to take Merits and Flaws. 
A Merit is a special boon or benefit. It has a cost in Traits and is 
typically purchased with Free Traits equal to this cost. AFlaw, conversely, 
is a special problem. Taking a Flaw gives you a number of extra Free 
Traits equal to its rating. You can't take more than five Traits of Flaws 
normally, though you can take any two Flaws of any value (so you could 
be both blind and paraplegic, but we don't recommend it, and you 
couldn't have a'whole host of problems all at once). 
In some cases you may gain a new Flaw in the course of play. You 
generally don't gain points for this. You might be able to gain a Merit 
(at an Experience Trait cost of twice the Merit's rating), but this is 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


unusual and should be specially worked into the story; generally, you 
either have a Merit or you don't. 
PHYSICAL r k U T S A N D  FLAWS 
ACUTE SENSE (I CBR 3 TRAIT 
~IIERITI 
You have a naturally sharp sense, be it sight, hearing or whatnot. 
For one trait you have a one-Trait resolution bonus on all challenges 
involving that sense. For three Traits, you gain this bonus with all 
senses. 
A~I-IBIDEXTRCBUS 
(I TRAIT 
~
~
m
)
 
You can use both hands with equal facility. You suffer no Trait 
penalty when using an "off hand," because you don't have an off hand. 
If you use both hands at once, you still suffer a coordination penalty, as 
described on p. XX. 
CATLIKE 
BALANCE 
(I TRAIT 
~TIERITI 
Balance comes naturally to you - 
you almost never slip or fall. You 
gain a two-Trait resolution bonus on all challenges of balance, like 
walking a ledge or tightrope. 
D m ~ m / r ~  
(3 TRAIT 
  TIER IT^ 
Fortune favors the bold, and you're definitely one of them. Whenever 
you undertake a difficult or risky action - 
defined as one with a Static 
difficulty of eight or more Traits, or with damage as a possible result - 
you gain a one-Trait bonus to resolution. This only applies in combat 
if you are outnumbered or facing an opponent who can overbid you 
(Storyteller determines secretly). 
HUGE SIZE (4 TRAIT 
I€IERITI 
Weighing in at over 400 lbs. and seven or more feet of height, you 
are huge. (If you aren't really this big, you should wear padded clothes, 
platform shoes and a special tag to indicate this). You have one extra 
Bruised health level, because you can take more damage without 
significant impairment. 
INSENSIBLE TCB PAIN (S TRAIT 
~IIERITI 
For whatever reason - burned-out nerves or an excess of 
amphetamines - 
you never feel pain. You suffer no wound penalties 
and may act normally until you die (go past the Mortally Wounded 
health level). 
~ D I C T I C B N  
(I T@ 3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You have a physical addiction to some potent substance. For a 
trivial, legal or easily obtained substance like alcohol, this Flaw is worth 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


one Trait. For an illegal, highly dangerous or expensive substance, the 
Flaw is worth three Traits. While under the effects of your substance of 
choice you typically suffer from an additional Negative Trait; perhaps 
Impatient for amphetamines or Obnom’ous for alcohol. If you can’t get 
your fix, you will likely become sick and/ or violent, with results up to 
the Storyteller (but usually at least a two-Trait resolution penalty on 
challenges). 
DETWE SENSE 
(I TRAIT FLAW) 
One of your senses from abnormally poor functionality. In all 
challenges involving that sense, you suffer a two-Trait resolution 
penalty. You can temporarily overcome this with certain magics, but 
you cannot permanently repair this without permanent changes to your 
Pattern (i.e., spending experience and casting a powerful ritual). 
Obviously, you cannot take this in conjunction with an Acute Sense of 
the same type. 
This problem may be correctable (wearing glasses, for instance), 
but the problem should be apparent if the correction factor is ever lost, 
damaged or removed. You can lose your hearing aid, for instance, or 
your enemy might break your glasses. 
SHCBRT 
(I T m  FLAW) 
Wear a tag to note that your character is actually less than four and 
a half feet tall. You have trouble reaching countertops, doorknobs and 
similar height-based objects. You can only move two steps in each turn, 
instead of three. 
DISFIGUMD 
(2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Some hideous disfigurement, scar or defect makes you look 
frightening. You suffer a two-Trait penalty on all Social Challenges not 
related to intimidation, and you cannot take any Appearance-related 
Social Traits. 
@NE ~ R / & E  (2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Due to injury or defect, you lack an ear or eye. (Wear a tag or patch 
to indicate this.) You suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty on tests of 
the appropriate sense, just like someone with a Defective Sense. 
Additionally, if you are missing an eye, you suffer anadditional one-Trait 
penalty on ranged challenges, while missing an ear causes an additional 
one-Trait penalty on sound location. 
PRUTJAL 
UIAKS (2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Potent mystical traits manifest in your physical appearance. You 
may have the features of a legendary Norse god, the look of a famous 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


family of reputed magicians, animallike characteristics or the mark of 
supernatural creatures (based on folklore and myth). These marks make 
you stand out to anyone with Occult Ability, who may recognize them. 
You almost certainly inherit a moniker to go with your traits: Your 
friends may call you “Badger” because you look like one, or “Thor” if 
you’re tall and Nordic, or just refer to you as “that witchy woman.” 
If your inherited marks carry some sort of disfiguration, you have 
that as well, though you do get the Traits for it (for instance, if you seem 
to be a reincarnation of the god Hephaestus, you are automatically 
Lame in one leg but you get the Traits for it). Other than that, you’re 
simply noticeable for your traits. Witch-hunters may recognize them, or 
other people may associate them with undesirable legends - 
if you 
resemble someone from the Bathory family, for instance, they’ll 
remember tales of that ancestress who bathed in blood; if you look like 
a wolf, they may assume that you’re dangerous, and so on. 
BAD SIGHT 
(3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You have a noncorrectable vision problem like astigmatism or severe 
cataracts. You suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty on all vision rolls, 
but you can only ever overcome this with extensive Life magic (i.e., 
spending experience and a long, probably painful, ritual). 
Dmmm (3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
A club foot, hunchback or similar problem cripples you. The 
specific deformity typically causes you three Traits’ worth of problems. 
You might have a two-Trait penalty on movement and a one-Trait 
penalty on Social Challenges with a hunchback, for instance, or you 
could be completely unable to run if you have a badly malformed leg. 
The exact nature of these Traits is up to the Storyteller. You must wear 
a tag indicating your deformity and its Trait penalties unless you 
somehow conceal it magically. As with other biological problems, 
extensive Life magic might cure this, but only with lots of experience 
and time. 
DKENERATICBN 
(3,6 
CBR 9 TRAIT 
RAW) 
Without some sort of supernatural or super-scientific help, you will 
die. You could be necrotically falling apart, or perhaps you’re an 
animated construct that needs magical energy to survive, or maybe you 
have a terminal disease. 
For two Traits, you do not naturally heal from any wounds. This 
applies to all of the higher levels, as well. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


For six Traits, you suffer wounds at the reverse of the healing chart: 
the amount of time it would take to heal the Mmtally Wounded level is 
the amount of time it takes for you to suffer one level of damage, and you 
progress up the chart backward as you continue to take damage. 
For nine Traits, you take damage as before, but it’s aggravated. 
Note that without a regular source of magical healing, your character 
is pretty much doomed. Good luck. 
DI~INISHED 
A’ITRIBUTES 
(VARIABLE 
FLAW) 
When everyone else got the good stuff growing up, you got the 
crappy end: You’re living proof that you can be dumb, weak and ugly. 
You have fewer Attribute Traits than normal. For every two Traits that 
you don’t take from your normal starting allotment, you gain back one 
free Trait. You still must have at least one Trait in each category, 
though. This doesn’t prevent you from buying more Traits, later, nor 
does it affect your Trait maximums. 
LUI-IE 
(3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You have a badly injured or misshapen leg or legs. Use something 
to show this Flaw - 
a cane, leg braces or the like. You should take the 
Negative Physical Trait Lame as well (though you gain Traits for it). 
You cannot run and you can only take one step per action. 
~QNSTRQUS (3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You have a thoroughly hideous visage -perhaps covered completely 
in scars, wracked by Paradox or whatever. You may not take Appearance- 
related Social Traits. You cannot initiate any Social Challenges, except 
those relating to intimidation, while your true form is apparent. Yes, 
this includes empathic senses with Mind magic - 
nobody feels normal 
around you! 
PEIUTIANENT 
WWND 
(3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Like the proverbial wound in the side, you have some injury that 
never properly heals. This could be stigmata, a Paradox injury or some 
sort of permanent Pattern damage. At sunrise or sunset of each day 
(your choice, though once chosen it’s set), you drop to the Wounded 
health level with lethal damage, if you aren’t already there or worse. 
SLQW HEALING (3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You heal all injuries at half speed -double 
the healing times on the 
chart on p. 192 ofLaws of Ascension. All healing magic heals only half 
damage to you (round down). 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


DEAF 
(4 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
As you cannot hear at all, you cannot understand spoken language 
(unless you take Linguistics: Lip Reading), and you certainly can’t hear 
people sneaking up on you. You suffer a three-Trait resolution penalty 
to challenges of alertness and sensitivity to your surroundings. Anyone 
who approaches you from outside your line of sight automatically 
surprises you. 
UIUTE 
(4 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Talk about a pain for any mage who relies on language. You may not 
speak in character, at all, nor may you break character to explain your 
motives to anyone but a Storyteller. You can use Linguistics: Sign 
Language, though of course this does you no good if you don’t have the 
Ability or you don’t know anyone else with it. 
AGING 
(S TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You’re just not a teenager anymore. For each decade over the 40- 
year mark, you take the Flaw once and you lose one from both your 
starting and maximum Physical Trait total. You may also take this if 
you’re underage: Once at 11-14, twice at 7-10 and up to three times for 
4-6, with the same penalties (though you must buy off the Flaw with 
experience as you age, in the latter case). You must also take the Child 
Flaw if you’re “underage.” Obviously, you’ll need makeup or a special 
tag to indicate your apparent age. 
~TIAYRY 
CURSE 
(S CBR I 8  TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You age at an accelerated rate - 
and death comes soon. For five 
Traits, you age one physical year for every two real months. For 10 
Traits, you age one physical year every single real week! You may take 
this Flaw in conjunction with Agzng (above), based on your physical 
age, to represent decrepitude that has already caught up with you. You 
cannot take this Flaw if your chronicle won’t outlast your projected 
lifespan, though (generally, it’s only appropriate for long-term games). 
You can’t see, and you automatically lose all challenges that rely on 
sight. On a test where sight can help but isn’t strictly necessary (like 
finding a door by touch), you lose on ties. Wear a special tag or dark 
glasses to indicate your condition. 
BLIND (6 TRAIT FLAW) 
PARAPLEGIC 
(6 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Confined to a wheelchair, bed or crutches, you can’t move at all 
without extreme effort. You can only move one step per action, and 
doing so is very painful - 
take one level of bashing damage from 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


exhaustion each time you move this fast. Anyone who relies on 
maneuverability (striking with a sword, kicking you or just running 
away) automatically bests you on all ties. 
SKIAL, mERITSAND 'FLAWS 
TRUE 
~
V
E
 
[4 TRAIT 
~ E I U T )  
You have found (and possibly lost) a True Love. This love buoys you 
even in the worst of times and gives you strength to continue against all 
odds. You gain one True Love Trait, which you may use each game 
session just like a Willpower Trait. (This Trait cannot be saved up from 
game to game.) Of course, your True Love may require rescuing, or 
perhaps you have to quest to find him, her or it. 
CHILD 
(I TCB 3 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
The Awakening can strike nearly anyone - 
in your case, it struck 
during early life. Very early. You're a young child, with all of the 
attendant problems: Small size, inability to get into certain places, 
never taken seriously by adults and so on. You gain one Trait if you're 
11-14, two if you're 7-10 and three if you're 4-6. See also &ng if your 
child isn't very physically adept or precocious. 
Playing an Awakened child isn't an excuse to carry a teddybear, act 
cute and derelict yourself of responsibility. You're a child thrust into the 
middle of a war for belief, subjected to supernatural enemies that don't 
care about your age and at risk of blowing your mind due to magical 
stresses before you ever even have a life. This isn't funny or cute; it's a 
child thrown into a situation of horror. 
DARK 
SECRET [I TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Something terrible from your past haunts you and surfaces from 
time to time to make you miserable. You might have done something 
very naughty or perhaps you have a discredited past. Either way, you'll 
suffer significant social consequences (like ostracism, hatred or being 
hunted by new enemies) if your secret comes out. Perhaps you were 
taught by a mage who was later learned to be a Nephandus, or maybe 
you participated indirectly in the Gilgul of an innocent. Your secret 
could come up at any time and the Storyteller will be sure that it haunts 
you. If it gets out, you'll either gain an immediate Negative Trait 
(Untrustworthy is a good one) or lose a Trait of Reputation - 
and you 
may suffer other in-game repercussions. 
I IS TAKEN IDENTITY [I TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You're not a reincarnated god, an Oracle descended from the 
Umbra, a miracle-worker or prophesied hero - 
but you sure look the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


part. People may automatically assume that you have some capabilities 
or significance beyond your actual abilities, or may even think that 
you're someone you aren't. You should wear a tag that indicates the 
individual you resemble. This could be troublesome if your look-alike 
is particularly well-known or infamous for some notorious deeds. 
SHY (I TRAIT FLAW) 
Large groups of people make you uncomfortable. It's not that you 
don't get along with people; rather, crowds just cause you to become 
nervous. You suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty on social interaction 
with groups of three or more people; this goes up to three Traits for 
crowds of 10 or more. 
WRCH-HUNTED 
(4 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Some hunter is out to get you, whether for religious reasons, for 
some perceived injustice, as a member of a secret cabal or just plain due 
to craziness. However, this hunter knows about your magics and has 
some idea of your capabilities. The hunter won't rest and takes steps to 
prepare for and counter your skills, and tends to show up at the most 
inconvenient times. Worse still, since the hunter keeps an eye on you, 
your friends and allies might be in danger as well if they're seen 
associating with you. Even if you defeat or convert the hunter, another 
will take up the crusade unless you buy off the Flaw. The Storyteller 
makes up this hunter and has a Narrator play the role anytime the 
hunter comes into play. 
PRGBATICBNARY 
~ ~ T I B E R ( ~  
TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Perhaps you defected from the Technocracy, or maybe you split 
from a Craft, studied early on under an Orphan or switched Traditions 
with some bad blood left behind. Your current Tradition doesn't trust 
you, and your old group remembers you none too fondly. Although you 
may have Reputation and a powerful Destiny, nobody trusts you and 
nobody wants to risk you turning coat again to become a new enemy. 
Thus, you're treated by everyone above you as if you had only one 
Reputation. 
 ENTAL r€I~wrs 
AND 'FLAWS 
&ILITY&T~UDE 
(I TRAIT 
~ ~ R I T )  
You have a natural aptitude for some Ability that goes beyond 
simple proficiency. With one non-combat capability (such as Computer 
or Drive) you gain a two-Trait resolution bonus. This can't apply to a 
combat skill or an exotic/esoteric Ability like Firearms or Vampire Lore. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


C~I-TXTBN SENSE 
(I TRAIT 
~T~NT) 
Simple wisdom just comes naturally to you. When you’re in a bind, 
you can think of any number of proverbs and you just have an instinct 
for “the right thing to do” -or 
at least you know better than to stir up 
any hornets’ nests. When you’re about to do something stupid, the 
Storyteller or Narrator should stop you and say, “DO you really want to 
do that?’’ This is a good Merit for novice players, as it allows them to play 
characters who know better or to help them learn the ropes of the game. 
When you shut out distractions and focus on a task, you can 
overcome any outside disturbance. It doesn’t matter if you’re in a 
firefight, in sleet or hail, hanging upside down- these annoyances just 
don’t bother you. You never suffer any penalty Traits for deleterious 
circumstances, though you can still be distracted by Mind magic or 
wounds, and you still suffer penalties if you’re actually mentally or 
physically restrained from performing your task completely. 
C~NCENTRATICBN 
(I TRAIT r€hrr) 
LIGHT SLEPER 
(I TCB 3 TRAIT 
~I~ERIT) 
Whether due to magical boon or just a quirk of physiology, you 
subsist on less sleep than the average person. For one Trait, you need 
sleep only four hours a night. You don’t take penalties for sleep 
deprivation, unless you get less than this. For two Traits, you need sleep 
only two hours a night - 
you can remain functional even on the run 
or while holding down multiple jobs at once. At a cost of three Traits, 
you never sleep naturally; you can still be physically exhausted, but you 
don’t require rest for your mind, and you only go to sleep if you choose 
to, if you are magically influenced or just plain knocked out. 
LIGHTNING 
CALCULAT~R 
(I TRAIT 
r€hrr) 
You’re a whiz with numbers. You can perform all manner of 
complex math in your head instantly with incredible accuracy. You’re 
allowed to carry and use a calculator, which isn’t considered “in play” 
(it’s just there so that you can do your calculations “in your head”). 
T I ~ E  
SENSE 
(I TRAIT 
I’~RIT) 
You have an unusual acuity for the passage of time. Although you’re 
still susceptible to Time magic manipulation, you have an internal sense 
for time that’s accurate to about a minute and, barring magical 
compression or time travel, always correct. This can be useful in 
determining exactly when a given spell will wear off or in calculating 
time differences for strange Umbral Realms. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


BERSERKER (2 TRAIT IbRIT) 
The killing fury lurks within you. When you’re injured, a red haze 
seems to obscure your vision, and you kill.. . and kill.. . and kill. Each 
time you’re injured in combat, make a Static Challenge pitting your 
permanent Willpower against a difficulty of six Traits plus one Trait for 
each health level of damage you’ve suffered. If you fail, you enter a 
berserk frenzy. While berserk, you suffer no penalties for wounds 
(though you still collapse when Mortally Wounded), and you 
immediately attempt to engage the nearest enemy target in close 
combat. You must make the same test each time you wish to snap out 
of the frenzy, unless there’s nobody left (including your friends and 
allies!) around you. 
If you have the Flaw: Short Fuse, you suffer a two-Trait resolution 
penalty on all challenges to resist or snap out of your berserk state. 
C@N @? HCI”R (2 TRAIT ~ ~ R I T )  
A specific code of behavior and ethics guides your actions. Your 
personal experiences and beliefs shape this code, so it’s guided by your 
own nature, not some arbitrary list of external injunctions. You must 
work with the Storyteller to delineate the nature and limits of your 
code, and you must roleplay living up to it. However, you gain one free 
retest on any Mental or Social Challenge that might result in you 
violating your Code of Honor. 
EIDETIC 
~ E ~ @ R Y  
(2 TRAIT 
~ E R I T )  
Your memory is nearly perfect, and you recall with incredible 
clarity almost everything you experience. A single turn of attention is 
sufficient to commit a page, picture or short conversation to memory. 
If you are involved in a combat or otherwise distracted, you must make 
a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of six Traits, to successfully 
memorize the contents of your subject of scrutiny. You should keep a 
“cheat sheet” of your memories to aid you and the Storyteller in 
“recollection.” 
I R ~ N  
WILL 
(3 TRAIT 
~ ~ R I T )  
When your mind is set, your will is not easily broken. You gain three 
bonus Traits in resolution of challenges where the outcome would 
affect your rational thoughts (most Mind manipulation counts, including 
manipulation of your senses with illusions or invisibility) but not 
against emotional alteration. Should you run afoul of a vampire with 
the Dominate Disciple (a set of hypnotic vampire mind-control powers), 
you may spend a Willpower Trait to gain a retest against it (as usual), 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


but if you win, you gain total immunity to all Dominate powers of that 
vampire for the next five minutes. 
CGXIIPULSICBN 
(I re 4 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Whether by psychological, physical or supernatural impairment, 
you find yourself forced to do (or not do) a specific thing or class of 
things. The action could be just about anything; by its very nature, it 
can make your existence uncomfortable at the very least. 
With a psychological Compulsion, you might be able to overcome 
your difficulty with a Static Challenge of your permanent Willpower 
Traits versus a difficulty of the Flaw's value plus six Traits. (If you lose, 
you do lose a temporary Willpower Trait - 
you fought and failed.) 
With a supernatural or physical Compulsion, you're stuck: Your body or 
soul just can't cope. Even if you manage to overcome your Compulsion 
briefly in some fashion, you don't escape it without extensive work (and 
Experience Traits). 
The value for a Compulsion varies with its severity. Storytellers, 
take note of players who look for loopholes to take a Compulsion and 
then use the letter of the Compulsion to suffer no real hindrance for it. 
That's a violation of the spirit of the rules and should be disciplined 
appropriately. 
Flaw 
Compulsion 
One Trait 
Do not cross a threshold without permission, 
never show fear to the enemy, never contradict 
a superior, always keep your hands clean 
Never refuse a reasonable bet, never betray 
any emotion, do not touch anything hold or 
consecrated to a particular faith, never harm a 
child 
Never refuse a duel, never strike a woman, 
never refuse an offer of sex, never tell a lie, 
never take a life, always check for fire hazards 
before you leave the house 
Never tell the truth, dance whenever you hear 
music, become entranced by the beauty in 
mirrors or books, never refuse a dare, do no 
harm ever 
Two Traits 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
DEP SLEEPER 
(I TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Snore, toss and ignore the alarm - 
you sleep like a force of nature. 
When you must wake up to deal with something, you're stuck. If you just 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


woke up, roleplay it: You stagger, stumble and look bleary-eyed, and rest 
up against anything vaguely pillowlike in an attempt to return to 
Dreamland. Take a one-Trait resolution penalty on $1 challenges for the 
scene, after which you finally wake up. 
INEPTITUDE (I TRAIT 
FMW) 
You just suck at something. Pick one Ability that you possess. You 
suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty on all challenges related to that 
Ability. The Storyteller has final say on which Ability you may limit in 
this fashion; taking Ineptitude with, say, Computer in a chronicle where 
you never use the things is not worth any Traits. 
NIGWS 
[I TRAIT 
%w) 
Horrible nightmares wrack your sleep and prevent you from rest. 
You dread slumber as it may mean the return of the terrors, and you 
sometimes find yourself in such stunningly complex and real nightmares 
that you can't tell them from reality. If you suffer from Nightmares before 
agiven game (Storyteller's discretion), you suffer a one-Trait resolution 
penalty on all challenges due to the fatigue. You might also find yourself 
involved in a short story that turns out to be a nightmare instead of 
reality, though you wouldn't know at first. You cannot take this Flaw in 
conjunction with the Merit: Sleepless. 
SLEPWALKER 
(I TCB 4 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Magic? What a load of horse-puckey. No sane person believes in 
that - 
leastwise, not you. Or perhaps you don't believe in this high- 
fangled super-science - 
maybe you're from a backwater part of the 
world, or perhaps you have some reincarnation of a Past Life translocated 
to the present from the past, or just wound up coming from a non- 
technological background. 
Since you don't believe in these things, you don't see them, and you 
certainly don't cause them. With the one-Trait version of the Flaw, you 
can only perform magic (or super-science) that would be coincidental, 
because you don't believe in it. For two Traits, you don't believe in 
either. This means that you count as a witness for Paradox purposes on 
other peoples' magic. For two extra Traits on top of this, you can still 
do vulgar magic but you count as a witness against your own magic, so 
it's always Paradox-prone. 
SWHHEARTED 
(1 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You cannot abide suffering, because of the emotional disturbance 
or pain that it causes you. You must avoid causing pain or suffering to 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


anyone; only by spending a Willpower Trait can you overcome this 
limitation for a scene/hour. 
S
~
H
 
ImPE~~rhem 
(I TRAIT FLAW) 
A stammer, Tourette's Syndrome or other speech deficiency makes 
communication difficult for you. Roleplay your deficiency, and suffer a 
two-Trait resolution penalty on all verbal communication. 
A~NESIA 
(2 TRAIT 
~%Aw) 
You've got this problem, but damned if you can remember what it 
is.. .. You have no memory of your past, history, family or pretty much 
anything. This doesn't prevent you from having Abilities (you stilt know 
how to do things) but you may not know exactly what you can do, or how 
good you are. The Storyteller keeps your character record and never 
reveals to you your exact Traits, Spheres or the like until you try to use 
them. 
PHCDBIA 
(2 TRAIT FLAW) 
Some object, creature or circumstance fills you with dread. This fear 
goes far beyond the normal level of phobias. You react with primal terror 
to the thing, treating it as a dire threat. When confronted by the object 
of your fear, you must make a Static Challenge of your permanent 
Willpower Traits against a difficulty of six Traits, risking a temporary 
Willpower Trait. Should you fail, you flee in terror. If you're out of 
Willpower, you simply curl up into a helpless ball, unable to act. Ifpressed 
into a comer and forced to defend yourself against the object of your fears, 
you suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty on all challenges against it. 
SHCDRT 
Fuse (2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Whenever someone ticks you off, you tend to fly off the handle. 
Make a Static Willpower Challenge (difficulty six Traits) when you're 
insulted or threatened. Failure means that you automatically take the 
offensive - 
this may mean responding in kind, be it with verbal abuse, 
social vendettas or physical violence. If you have the Berserker Flaw, you 
suffer a two-Trait penalty on your challenges to control your berserk 
rages, as well. 
VENGEFUL 
(2 TM FLAW) 
You want to even a score, either from before your Awakening or 
with some group or individual encountered thereafter. You constantly 
plan ways to satisfy your revenge, and if presented with an opportunity 
for vengeance, you must spend a Willpower Trait to take any different 
action for the scene. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


I " -  
, I  
I
.
 
J 
I .  
* 
&ILIR 
DWICIT (5 TRAIT 
FFLAW) 
You're not in tune with your natural Abilities; perhaps you lack an 
education, or maybe you're just not good with them. You start play with 
no Abilities other than those you take with Free Traits. Furthermore, 
you cannot purchase more than one level of any Ability, or any 
specialization at all, until you overcome this Flaw. 
SUPERNATURAL r k U T S A N D  FLAWS 
CCBNDITICBNAL 
~
G
I
C
 
(I TCB 6 TRAIT 
mew CBRFLAW) 
Some specific condition either enhances or hinders your craft. 
Maybe you work your magic best in bright sunlight, or when affecting 
redheads, or on Halloween. Perhaps your magic has no effect on 
anything larger than you can hold, or anyone who's sworn to uphold 
just ice. 
The value for this Merit or Flaw varies with the scarcity of 
occurrence. If you gain a bonus against something really common, that 
costs several Traits; similarly, if your magic fails against a common 
fixture, that's a significant Flaw worth several Traits. As a base, this 
gives you a three-Trait resolution modifier to all Arete challenges 
where the condition is a factor. You may adjust this modifier downward; 
doing so reduces the value of the Conditional Magic by the same number 
of Traits. 
Traits 
Condition 
One Trait 
Two Traits 
Unique: The Sword of Roland, the Matriarch 
of the MECHA construct, leap year 
Scarce as hen's teeth: Current or former 
members of the Council of Nine, your former 
Mentors, once in a blue moon 
Rare, but not unheard of: toadstones, Swedish 
royalty, werewolves, rowan and red thread, 
the holy days of the archangels 
Special order: virgins, Middle Eastern eye- 
bead charms, any member of Iteration X, during 
a thunderstorm 
Available without much trouble: cold iron, 
silver, Christians, any member of the 
Traditions, a windy day, holy ground 
Common as dirt: men, anyone who's ever 
been baptised, the color purple, under cloud 
cover, Tuesdays 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
Five Traits 
Six Traits 
. e  
I 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Example: Melissa decides that she wants her character to be a “weather 
witch” --Verbena 
witha knackfor s t o m .  She takes Conditional Magic 
as a Merit, with the four-Trait “duringa thunderstorm” condition. When in 
thunderstorms, she’dgainathree-Traitresolution bonus toallArete challenges! 
However, she feels that this is more than she wants to spend, so she lowers 
the bonus to two Traits. The Merit now only costs three Free Traits. 
GREEN T H ~ B  
(I TRAIT 
~€IERIT) 
Flowers spring up in your footsteps, and trees burst into bloom at 
your touch. Your hands are as warm as sunlight or stones from a cheery 
hearth. A common Merit among Verbena. 
PARL~RTIUCK 
(I TRAIT 
I ~ ~ I T )  
You have some petty, not-very-useful-but-still-impressive magical 
feat that you can perform pretty much at will. This doesn’t mean that 
you can duplicate the effects of the Spheres easily; it’s just a little knack 
or trick that you’ve come by and which is so simple that it requires no 
challenge or risk of Paradox on your part. 
You can use a Parlor Trick to conjure a dime with a twist of your 
wrist, make a spark with a snap of your fingers, turn around and cause 
motes of light to fly from the hem of your wardrobe, or perform some 
other simple feat. This doesn’t give you bonus Traits, nor does it inflict 
any damage. The Storyteller has absolute discretion in the nature of 
what your Parlor Trick can or can’t do. Note that you only get a single 
Parlor Trick; you can’t do all of the above with this Merit, just one of 
them. 
CIRCU~SPECT 
AVATAR 
(2 T~asr 
~€IERIT) 
Avatar? What’s that? You may believe in Avatars, but you’ve 
certainly never had any dealings with yours. You do not enter a 
Mindscape in order to undergo a Seeking; instead, you find 
enlightenment in mundane things. Your Avatar does not guide you 
directly or appear to you in dreams. At most, it simply gives you 
impressions or hunches. 
~ E D I U ~  
(2 TRAIT 
  TIER IT) 
You hear dead people. More specifically, you can hear the sounds 
of the Underworld. When a particularly fierce patch of storms races 
across the Deadlands, you hear the shrieking winds; when a ghost pleads 
for aid, you’re aware. If this ability becomes known to the Dead, they 
may flock to you, begging for your aid and intercession in the living 
lands. Conversely, you don’t have to rely on Spirit magic to speak with 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the departed, and occasionally they can provide useful advice or 
assistance. 
UNAGING 
(2 TRAIT 
IITem) 
You never suffer the rigors of age. It’s up to you and the Storyteller 
to decide whether you appear to age, or whether you just “stopped” 
somewhere along the line. You never suffer any penalties for old age 
(and you cannot take the &ng Flaw relating to old age). 
@RACW&ILITY 
(3 TRAIT 
~ E R I T )  
No, you’re not one of the strange and distant Enlightened masters 
living out beyond the Horizon, but you do have an uncanny knack for 
spotting signs and portents. Once per session, you may attempt to read 
aparticular omen by making a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty 
of eight or more Traits (Narrator’s discretion). If you succeed, you 
receive some insight into the current situation, allowing you to claim 
one retest at some point during the night as you draw on the visions that 
you interpreted. 
CYCLIC 
~ A G I C  
(3 TRAIT 
III~RIT) 
Some natural phase ties directly into your magic. Perhaps you’re in 
tune with the tides and your magic ebbs and recedes with them, or 
maybe you follow the pattern of seasons. Pick one cyclical phenomenon 
-phases of the moon, stock market patterns, Internet outages - 
and 
decide when your “high” and “low” points exist. Your Arete challenge 
resolution varies by up to three Traits depending upon the point of the 
cycle - 
plus three at your high point, minus three at the low. The 
timing should balance out, but this is an advantage because you can 
plan your most important and dangerous workings around your cyclical 
peaks. 
rkNIRSTAVATAR(3 TR4IT ITIEIuT) 
Your Avatar isn’t content to sit idly by, whispering wisdom and 
urging you in dreams. No, it wants attention, and it wants it now! As a 
result, your Avatar actually manifests from time to time. When it 
appears, it does so as an illusory form that only you can see (though 
others who read your mind can also sense and see it). The Avatar may 
talk with you, order you around or just make cryptic mutterings. If you 
have the Allies Background, you may choose to specify that your Avatar 
is actually inside of a person or creature Ally, and it speaks and interacts 
through that entity. Destruction of that form doesn’t hinder the 
Avatar; it simply finds anew home. If you have the Phylactery Flaw, your 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Avatar may have a physical form that can interact with you (like a 
computer). With magic, you can even give your Avatar a separate form. 
You focus the spirit and material worlds together with your very 
presence. The Gauntlet is always considered one level lower for you. 
For some mysterious reason, the deadly veil that separates spirit 
from flesh has no effect upon you. While other mages must suffer 
terrible trials to quest in the spirit world, your magic can directly affect 
it without interference. You do not suffer any damage from the Avatar 
Storm. With the five-Trait version of this Merit, your protection 
extends to anyone touching you. 
NATURAL CHANNEL 
(3 TRAIT 
lTIe~r) 
STCI"ARDEN (3 QRS TRAIT 
r€brr) 
UNBCBNDABLE 
(3 TRAIT 
I~~ERIT) 
You're resistant to the blandishments of supernatural compulsion 
- 
well, maybe one such type of compulsion, anyway. You might be 
immune to cursed items that force you into servitude, or perhaps you are 
immune to the Blood Bond that befalls those who drink thrice of 
vampire blood. Pick one such condition of magically enforced slavery; 
you're immune to it. If, however, you are in a position to reap benefits 
as well due to it (say, you have a magical ring that normally corrupts the 
wearer but also gives him powers, or you want to be a ghoul without 
suffering the Blood Bond), you must pay double for this Merit. 
FAE 
BLWD (4 TRAIT 
~TIEIUT) 
The blood of the fae runs in your veins. As a result, you can sense 
and interact with the faerie worlds, to a limited degree. You're considered 
kinain, a mortal who has a blood-relation to the fae and can thus learn 
some of their powers. Although you can't hold Glamour, you can learn 
changeling cantrips, and they're Paradox-free to you. You can also be 
easily enchanted to see the Dreaming worlds and interact with the fae. 
You have a naturally low Banality, so you aren't off-putting to many 
faeries. 
For more about the kinain and their special gifts, see The Shining 
Host Players Guide. 
You're just plain lucky. You get three retestsper story (for which you 
bid a Lucky Trait: "I got Lucky -you 
missed me last time."), though you 
may not use more than one to retest on any given challenge. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


SHAPECHANGER 
KIN (4 TRAIT 
~ ~ ~ E R I T )  
A cousin to wolves, or so it’s said, you have a family relation 
(however distant) to the shapeshifter races. Even if you’re not Awakened, 
you do not suffer the Delirium, the madness that overtakes humans who 
witness the Changing Breeds in their monstrous forms. You might even 
learn one of their spiritual tricks -Gifts -which gather no Paradox, 
but you cannot hold Gnosis, the innate connection to the spirit world 
shared by the true shifters. Some family or friends might know of 
shapeshifters, and you could perhaps learn a few rudiments about them, 
but you’d best be careful; the shapeshifters tread very carefully with 
mages. Still, you have a better standing than most with the changers. 
For more about the Kinfolk of Garou and the Changing Breeds, see 
Laws of the Wild and the Changing Breeds books. 
TWIN 
SWLS (4 TRAIT 
~TIEw~) 
Your Avatar sundered at some point, and you have a soulmate who 
has a similar piece of Avatar. This person could be anyone - 
a twin, 
a mage, a Sleeper, a stranger. The only thing you know is that when you 
two come in contact, your Avatar seems briefly whole. With your 
soulmate, you can share Quintessence and cast spells using the highest 
ratings for your Arete and Spheres. You gain an additional amount of 
Quintessence equal to the Avu,atar Background rating of the two of you 
combined, though this “bonus pool” is like any other pool in that it must 
be refreshed if you want it to continue to hold Quintessence for later 
junctures. 
If you have Apprentice-level Correspondence, you always know 
where your soulmate is. With Apprentice-levelLife, you know his exact 
state of health; with Apprentive-level Mind, you may share thoughts 
and emotions. If one member of the pair dies, the survivor must succeed 
in a Static Willpower Challenge (difficulty of eight Traits) or suffer a 
psychic shock leading to the loss of one permanent Willpower Trait. In 
any case, you won’t have a soulmate to work with until the Avatar 
fragment returns through reincarnation. 
The unholy blood of vampires gives you cursed power and sustains 
you. So long as you drink about a pint of vampire blood each month, you 
gain a multitude of inherent (Paradox-free) powers. You may refresh all 
of your Strength-related Physical Traits once per game at no cost, and 
you do not age. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


If you use Laws of the Night, you gain the first Basic level of Potence 
and you can learn additional Basic Disciplines known to the vampire 
whose blood you drink (at twice the normal cost). You have a Blood 
Pool and can gamer and use additional Blood Traits if they’re given to 
you by a vampire. 
On the downside, you’re a parasite sucking on a parasite. You gain 
one extra Resonance Trait of both Entropic and Static Resonance. You 
risk the Blood Bond, and your Avatar is eclipsed by the curse of the 
blood, which may cause any of your Seekings to fail at a Narrator’s 
discretion. If you fail to get your “fix,” you lose your special powers and 
all of your skipped age catches up with you. Plus, vampires will fear or 
hate you and want to use you as a pawn. If they make you one of them, 
you lose your magical powers, forever. Step carefully. 
LSENDARY ATTRIBUTE 
6 TRAIT 
rIleRIT) 
The might of Hercules, the wisdom of Solomon, the speed of 
Mercury - 
your mage inherits some phenomenal characteristic that 
exceeds normal human strengths. Pick one Attribute Trait category: In 
that category, your Trait maximum increases by three Traits. Actually 
purchasing these additional Traits still costs you the usual points, 
though. Furthermore, you have some sort of legendary capability tied to 
your improved Attribute. Work with your Storyteller to devise some 
passive (always on) or active (usable once per day) capability. Some 
examples include: 
With Legendary Strength, you might have the capacity to lift a 
tremendous weight once per game. You could heft a car, a boulder or a 
telephone booth, perhaps even staggering a few steps with it. 
With Legendary Stamina, you might heal one health level per day, 
regardless of the level of injury. 
With Legendary Perception, you might never be surprised. 
With Legendary Charisma, you might gain one free retest on any 
Social Challenge of first impressions, once per game. 
SHATTEREDAVATAR~ 
T w  
rIleRIT) 
Some crisis in the past shattered your Avatar. This may have been 
before you were born, or perhaps a botched magical rite broke your 
Avatar to pieces after your Awakening. Although you start with only 
your basic Avatar Background, you have the potential to improve it 
during the course of the game. You need only hunt down the lost, 
shattered pieces of your Avatar, which could be anywhere - 
in some 
other dimension, trapped in an item, in another mage, etc. Liberate 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


these pieces or claim them for yourself (by finding them, taking the item 
and breaking it or killing the other mages), and you gain the strength 
of that piece of your Avatar added to your own. You must seek these out 
on your own-some 
Prime, Spirit and Correspondence magic might help, 
but these pieces are flung across the whole of Creation with no telling 
where they're located or how they might be guarded against scrying or 
intrusion. Some might not even want to come back! 
You may exceed the usual Background limit of Traits with this 
Merit, but of course only to the limit that your Storyteller allows. If the 
Storyteller decides that five Traits of Avatar is enough, he's not 
obligated to put in more quests for pieces of your Avatar. 
SPHERE 
NATURAL 6 
T W  
~ E R I T )  
Choose one Sphere. You have a natural affinity for this sort of 
magic. You pay one less Experience Trait for every level that you 
purchase in this Sphere. 
AVATARCCBITIPANICBN 
(7 
TRAIT 
~TIEIUT) 
Just as your Avatar cycles through many lives, so too does a lesser 
Avatar bound to yours by some skein of fate. Each time your Avatar is 
"reborn" to a new life, this other Avatar also returns to the mortal world 
with a body and soul. Your companion, though, retains many memories 
and past images of your earlier incarnations. This can be a great help in 
puzzling out Past Lives, working through problems that you've ostensibly 
solved before, and in recognizing works made by your Avatar in the past. 
The Storyteller should create this companion, though another 
player's character might suffice if you trust the players sufficiently not to 
use this as an excuse to maximize their combined skills. The companion 
has no special characteristics other than its memories, unless you also 
take the Allies Background. 
DUAL TRADITICBNS 
(3 TRAIT 
  TIER IT) 
You trained early on in multiple styles: Perhaps your teacher was a 
maveric or Orphan, or maybe you swapped from one Chantry to a new 
mentor when your old instructor died or vanished, or maybe you just 
decided that you liked one Tradition better than the one that first 
inducted you. You may use the foci of both Traditions, and you gain a 
specialty Sphere from both. 
TRUE 
'FAITH (7 TRAIT ~€IERIT) 
The light of God, Allah, Buddha or whatever name you use for the 
Almighty shines from your soul. You have one Trait of True Faith, 
which can be used in a variety of ways. Among mages, you gain one 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


extra Trait in defense against anyone else’s magical Effects. Further- 
more, you can use this Trait just like a Willpower Trait. However, 
retaining the compassionate, generous, honorable demeanor of one of 
the truly faithful requires you to uphold an exceedingly demanding 
code. You must live and exemplify all the best virtues of your religion: 
Charity, mercy, understanding and so on. Of course, you might also 
have some personal flaws - 
True Faith seems common among witch- 
hunters - 
but this is not often the case. 
For more comprehensive information about True Faith, see Laws 
of the Hunt. 
THE 
BARD’S T~NGUE 
(I TRAIT 
FFLAW) 
When you mutter unpleasant imprecations, they have a nasty way 
of coming true. Once per session, some uncomfortable possibility that 
you mention - 
even sarcastically! - 
will come true. Anything from 
“It could only get worse if the car broke down” to “This guy’s too good 
to be true - 
I bet he’s a Nephandus” could come to pass. If you don’t 
mention anything particularly noteworthy, a Storyteller or Narrator 
might whisper to you a cryptic pronouncement that simply comes upon 
you and blurts out. To quash this urge you must expend a Willpower 
Trait and suffer one health level of bashing damage as you bite down on 
your tongue. 
DEVIL‘S mARK (I TRAIT 
FLAW) 
A small physical characteristic or deformity seems to lend credence 
to the belief that you’re in league with infernal forces. While you may 
or may not really be an infernalist, this marking (which is otherwise not 
harmful or crippling) certainly looks like one of the signs out of folklore 
-a 
conspicuous, oddly shaped birthmark, an extra nipple, a set of bums 
that don’t heal. Those who look for witches may recognize these signs. 
(If you do happen to have a pet or consor of infernal origin, this 
familiar can draw Quintessence from you by contact with your mark, 
though this bonus is admittedly a slim one.) 
~ H W S  
(1 ~e s TRAIT l%~w) 
Various legends and stories about magicians manifest around you. 
Perhaps your presence causes horses to sweat, or makes cows’ milk 
curdle. Maybe wind chimes always ring when you’re around, even if 
there’s no wind. On the really nasty end, you might be vulnerable to 
nails driven through your footprints, or blocked by pure seasalt. Perhaps 
your shadow japes at you when you aren’t looking, or your powerful chi 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


energy causes you to float slightly when you sit. Pick one specific flaw 
based on folklore and seek your Storyteller’s approval (and value). 
G ~ S A  
(I TCB S TRAIT 
FLAW) 
Unlike a Compulsion, which is something that you deliberately 
have no choice to do or not do, a Gem represents a magical imperative 
that still gives you the choice, but requires you not to indulge in it. If 
you violate this Geas, you could suffer the loss of life, magic, perhaps 
even your soul. The Gem might be due to a curse, a particularly bad 
Paradox backlash, a special quest laid upon you or a hereditary condition. 
You must attach your Geas to a specific Merit, Flaw or Background. 
The Gem represents a point-break, because it limits the final utility of 
that Trait. For instance, you could have the Gem of “If I ever entrap the 
souls of the dead with magic, I will lose their favor forever,” linked to 
your Merit: Sphere Affinity: Spirit. Trapping the souls of the dead is a 
pretty easily avoided, unlikely circumstance - 
a four-Trait Geas, 
subtracted from the five-Trait value of the Merit, which yields a final 
result of one Trait. The Gem is thus a one-Trait Flaw. Conversely, if you 
stuck a very heavy prohibition on it (“If I ever see the full moon, I will 
lose my affinity for spirits”), that would be worth more: a five-Trait 
Merit, minus a one-Trait Gem, means that the final value of the Gea 
is a four-Trait Flaw. Or, say that you decided that if you ever eat red 
meat, you will sicken and die (gain the Flaw: Degeneration, six-Trait 
level). The condition is pretty unlikely (four Traits); take the four-Trait 
Gem from the six-Trait Flaw and you have two Traits - 
the final value 
of the Flaw with Gem, since it’s unlikely to happen and thus not worth 
as many points. This means that a Geas on a relatively trivial boon is 
not worth much, but a Gem on a hefty power can heavily cut the cost 
of apower if the conditions are strict enough. Note that if the Gem Trait 
value exceeds the other Trait’s value, you can still take the Geas but 
you’d get no Traits for it. For instance, you decide that if you ever bind 
the dead, you will lose your Medium Merit. The circumstance is a four- 
Trait Gem, pretty unlikely to happen, but the Merit itself is only two 
Traits; that would be a negative two Trait total, which would make the 
Gem a two-Trait Merit (you’d have to spend Traits for it!). Instead it’s 
just not worth any Traits - 
the only way that you can cut the cost of 
an already-cheap Merit or Flaw is to take a very, very strong Geas with 
it. 
A Gem cannot reduce a Merit, Flaw or Background cost to zero 
Traits. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Four 
Five 
The Trait values here are merely suggestions. The Storyteller, as 
Traits 
Geas 
One 
always, has final say about appropriate Geasa. 
Inevitable circumstance or incredible sacrifice: 
When you die, if you ever let the sun touch 
your skin, if you ever allow your feet to touch 
the earth, if you ever speak another word 
significant sacrifice: Remain a virgin, never 
harm a living creature, never tell a lie 
Everyday circumstance or common sacrifice: 
Never back down from a fight, never tell a 
secret, never refuse hospitality, never marry, 
never have children 
Unlikely circumstance or a small sacrifice: 
Stop and pet every cat you see, never eat any 
animal product, never harm a certain type of 
animal or a certain type of person, never raise 
your sword in anger 
Easily avoided circumstance or trivial sacrifice: 
Never break bread with a red-haired man, say 
your prayers every night, take your vitamins, 
never harm the kind, don’t eat ham, keep 
one small secret 
Two 
Almost unavoidable circumstance or 
Three 
Classic penalties for violating a Gem include suffering a Dark Fate, 
having luck turn from good to bad (like losing the Lucky Merit), being 
deserted by your familiar, losing your Avatar, losing a totem, losing all 
of your friends or losing all of your worldly possessions. 
If you ever violate your Geus, you also become oath-marked. The 
patterns of fate determine that you have done so, and anyone with 
Apprentice-level Entropy who senses fate about you can tell that you are 
an oathbreaker. 
CRUCIAL C@mP@NENT (2 T@ s TRAIT ‘FLAW) 
Some special ingredient fuels your magic. This isn’t just a focus - 
it’s an absolutely essential material or prop that completes your magical 
castings for all of your spells. The value depends on the scarcity of the 
item: 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Crucial Component 
Sunlight, eggs, motor oil, tea, aspirin, 
electricity, emotion, ectoplasm 
Beeswax candles, blood, fresh lavender, grave 
dirt, holy water, rage, spectral residue 
Virgin's blood, hashish, dead humans, gold, 
platonic love, the fires of Hell 
Diamonds, live humans that you sacrifice, rare 
orchids, lightning strikes, transcendent joy, 
the tears of an angel, any variety of Tass 
DARK FATE 
(S TRAIT 
FFLAW) 
Some horrible end awaits you, and you cannot avert it. Worse still, 
you have glimpses or some foreknowledge of your demise or eternal 
torment. The Storyteller will determine a particular fate, which will 
invariably strike you, removing your character from play. Furthermore, 
in any particular session where the Storyteller deems it appropriate, you 
may receive a vision of your impending misery. You must spend a 
Willpower Trait to shake off the experience, or you are a Trait down on 
all challenge resolution for the rest of the session. This Flaw can be 
difficult to roleplay, and players are advised to think carefully before 
choosing it. Some may believe that this Flaw removes free will, but 
foreknowledge of one's demise can be quite liberating. 
, 
SPHEE 
INEPT (s TRAIT FFLAW) 
You're just miserable with one of the Spheres. It simply doesn't 
work well for you. Maybe your Avatar is damaged, or perhaps your 
understanding is incomplete, or you may even labor under some karmic 
debt of a past life. The end result is the same: You must pay one extra 
Experience Trait for each level that you purchase in the Sphere. You 
may only choose this Flaw once. 
I/ 
PHYLACTERY 
(7 TRAIT 
FFLAW) 
Your Avatar isn't tied directly to you - 
it's invested in some 
concept, object or location. So long as you remain in a place where that 
investiture is strong, you can tap your magical potential. If you lose the 
item, if the concept fades or if you leave the area, your ability to work 
magic vanishes until you can get back to your Avatar! 
Your object, location or idea is essentially considered a part of you; 
that is, if your Phylactery happens to be your magic sword, you can affect 
it withCowespodnce as if you have an arcane connection to it, and you 
can't be forced to discard it any more than you could be forced to discard 
, 
a -  
. 
I ' r  . I '  , 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


your own hand. (It would still be affected with Matter instead of Life 
magic, though.) You must use your Phylactery in some way in all of your 
magic. If it’s a magical staff, you must wave it grandly about; if it’s the 
Pacific Ocean, you must hold up, splash and spray the ocean’s water; if 
it’s the idea of democracy, you must spout rhetorical dogma. 
You can always sense the location of your Phylactery, so if you are 
teleported away or lose it, you can locate it. If it’s damaged or destroyed, 
you can repair or replace it, but you can’t have more than one. 
If you are tied to a specific location, you can only work magic while 
you’re there. Similarly, if you have a specific concept or group whose 
beliefs you espouse, your magic only works so long as you’re a recognized 
part of that group (so destroying the group would also effectively snuff 
your Phylactery, unless you managed to rebuild the group from scratch 
or re-awaken the concept in people’s minds.). 
If you die, your Avatar may or may not go back into the cycle of being 
- 
the Phylactery might await you next incarnation, or it might crumble 
and vanish, or your Avatar might simply flee and return to the Wheel. 
The following Merits and Flaws are from the Guide to the Technoc- 
TEHNKRACY 
~T~ERITS 
AND FLAWS 
racy and thus are especially appropriate to Technocrat characters. 
UNBBTRUSIVE 
(I TRAIT 
r€krr) 
This Merit allows you to be the person that no one ever notices. 
This is not as powerful as Arcane - 
you aren’t invisible, people won’t 
forget you were there, and evidence of you won’t vanish. It does, 
however, allow you to not stand out of a crowd. Think of it as aperpetual 
“blandness” effect that you cannot turn off. 
Add two Traits to all difficulties to recall your appearance, or your 
actions if you were not the center of attention. 
ACUTE SENSES (1 BR 3 TRAIT mEIUT) 
You have one or more senses that are above and beyond the human 
norm. While not superhuman, the amount your character can perceive 
is exceptional. 
For one Trait, you have one sharp sense. This gives you a two-Trait 
bonus for resolution of challenges for tests involving that sense. 
For three Traits, all your senses are enhanced. 
Note that when your heightened senses are exposed to particularly 
powerful stimuli (such as spotlights, jet engines, a discharging skunk), you 
may, at your Storyteller’s discretion, be rendered temporarily “numb” in that 
sense, resulting in severe penalties or lack of use of that sense for some time. 
I’ I I - r  
. 
I ,r. 
‘&.it, 
‘, ; 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


FACTICBNS 
Zmrar: Many mages who have met Taftani see them as 
loud, brash, egotistical, obnoxious warmongers. The Zaotar 
very much resemble this remark. They live by the credo, "If it 
offends you, blow it up" and love nothing more than using great 
ulgar Effects to smash the lies of the Technocracy. Their 
otism stems from their unshakeable belief that they are right 
and any who buy into the lie are wrong. While their ways seem 
chaotic, they do in fact have a cause - 
the destruction of the 
Technocratic paradigm. Specialty Sphere : Forces 
esoteric. They tend to concentrate on divinations, 
Kuhin: These mages rely more heavily on the 
ses. Where the Zaotar are loud, the Kahin are contemplative. 
Kahin concentrate most of their research on studies of fate, 
and death; here, they believe, await the greatest truths. 
is is not to say that the Kahin do not use flashy, explosive1 
vulgar Effects - 
they simply do not use them as often, beca 
they're more likely to be found studying than blowing eve 
thing up around them. 
LICENSE 
TCB . . . (I-S TRAIT 
~ E R I T )  
This merit allows the type of licenses that allow you to kill, break 
laws, etc., as well as the more mundane types of civil permits. Depending 
on the cost of the Merit, you can: 
One Trait 
Two Traits 
Three Traits 
Four Traits 
Five Traits 
Own and operate specialized vehicles 
(limousines, trucks, planes, helicopters) 
Practice medicine, law (lawyer, paramedic, 
doctor) 
Uphold the law (police officer, government 
agent, detective) 
Own/operate military hardware (heavy 
weapons, milspec vehicles, explosives) 
Break the law in the course of duty (diplomat, 
secret agent - 
and yes, this level includes 
killing people) 
The level of license you take requires certain responsibilities - 
typically a job, membership in certain groups/agencies/etc. There are 
also always consequences to abusing the license - 
a secret agent who 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


kills four or five people a session is going to get called on by his superiors 
to find out why, possibly even having his license revoked. The Storyteller 
is completely within his rights to take this merit away from you if you 
abuse it. 
CCBNFIDENCE 
(2 PCBINT  em) 
While the Technocracy may be “The Man,” you are definitely “Da 
Man!” and you know it. You have an overwhelming self-confidence in 
your abilities, perhaps to the point of hubris, but you are sure of yourself 
- 
and others notice too. 
This Merit grants you a two-Trait bonus for resolution of all 
Leadership and Intimidation challenges. 
€&FICIALLY DEAD (2 TRAIT ~€IERIT) 
According to all government records and documents, you are dead. 
Any attempts to locate official records of documents reflect this status 
- 
tracking you via official means is very difficult. All attempts to use 
Bureaucracy Influences directly against you fail. The Storyteller may 
give other Influences similar modifications at his discretion. 
(Typically, going to see old family and friends who knew you from 
before is a good way to lose this Merit - 
enough “Elvis”-type sightings 
by old acquaintances, and someone will discover that you are not dead. 
This may cause you to lose the Merit, or, more likely, to actually be 
killed to make sure your secret is not exposed.) 
PCBKERFACE 
(2 TRAIT 
r h u ~ l  
You have the ultimate poker face -no sign of emotion ever crosses 
your face. You have one free defensive Social retest per night, as others 
always have trouble figuring you out. 
(Note - 
you should have something on your person indicating 
that your face never shows any emotion; you may flinch, but your NWO 
agent won’t. The Storyteller will tell you if and when you do show 
emotion.) 
IRCBN WILL 
(3 TRAIT 
 TIERI IT) 
This Merit gives you a resistance to all mental magics and powers, 
such as the Mind Sphere and the vampiric Dominate Discipline. You 
receive a one-Trait bonus for resolution of challenges involving such 
powers being used against you. Further, if affected with such a power, 
you may expend a Willpower Trait to retest the effect. If you win, the 
effect is negated and you receive a five-minute immunity to further use 
of such powers upon you. This Merit only works in regards to mind- 
affecting powers, not to spirit charms or similar effects. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


C L  
I 
wakened by their faith, and their True Faith shows it 
through their magic. 
P
E
~
T
 
 LIAR^ TRAIT 
lThvr) 
You are the ultimate silver-tongued devil. You receive a two-Trait 
bonus for resolution of all Subterfuge challenges, and for Empathy tests 
used against you. This bonus will also work against mundane means of 
veracity testing, such as a lie detector. It has no impact on any magic 
used to determine your emotions. 
~ A ~ T E R C B F  
RED TAPE 
(4 TRAIT 
l%rr) 
You are an unparalleled master of red tape. You may use your 
Bureaucracy Influence twice as often as normally allowed, and in 
parallel with any other Influence where you go through official channels 
as if it was an Influence of that type. However, make sure to cover your 
tracks, because you are still going to leave a trail - 
no one is that good. 
Your spirit was one of the original Daedaleans in the early days of 
the Order of Reason. While you don't necessarily believe this, dreams 
about your past inspire you. 
INN~R 
KNIGHT (S TRAIT 
rkm-r) 
.
P
I
 
I 
Once per game session, you may call for a retest on any one failed 
test. Unlike normal tests, this one challenge is resolved using your 
maximum number of Traits, rather than your current total. You also 
receive a Two-trait bonus on this challenge. Also, once per session you 
can refresh all your Traits in one category without expending a 
willpower Trait. 
TKHNBBABBLER 
(I TRAIT 
PFLAW) 
When you discuss anything, you use advanced technological and 
sociological terms, Orwellian newspeak and the like. Very few people 
can understand you. You receive a one-Trait penalty in discussing 
anything with a non-Technocrat. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


BIGCBT 
(2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
There is some group within the Technocracy you just don’t like, be 
it cyborgs, constructs or just normal agents. Pick one such group within 
the Technocracy. You have a two-Trait penalty on all Social Challenges 
with that group. Any dealings with another Technocrat that does not 
share this viewpoint also incurs the same penalty. 
As Bigony is a decidedly unpleasant and very real-life concept, the 
Storyteller may disallow this Flaw. Even if it is allowed, the group 
disliked must some group or faction within the Technocracy, not areal- 
world group, race, creed, etc. 
CCBNSTRUCT 
(2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You aren’t human-born, and you look it. For whatever reason, 
when you were created, steps were not taken to make sure you looked 
like a normal human. For this reason, you suffer a one-Trait penalty 
dealing with non-Technocrats, may not take any Appearance-based 
Traits, and are likely to be chased down like Frankenstein’s monster if 
you venture out into the everyday world. 
Icr (2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You are so cold and emotionless that even other Technocrats find 
you creepy. You must take at least one Negative Social Trait; it counts 
double to any non-Technocrats. Your comrades are a bit more accepting, 
but even they still glance at you sideways. 
RCBSEKCBLCBFQED 
~€IIWCBRSWS (2 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
To you, technology is it - 
man’s creations are great and can have 
no side-effects. Problem is, you cannot accept any downfalls in said 
technology/ideas. When confronted with major proof of technology’s 
failings (such as major pollution, animal testing subjects, etc), you suffer 
a two-Trait penalty to all tests until out of the presence of this proof. 
“Better, stronger, faster” turned out to have the caveat ‘(sometimes.” 
When you received your enhancements, some of them didn’t work 
correctly. This results in some serious side effects from being implanted. 
At the beginning of every game session, make a Simple Test. If you lose, 
you suffer a Trait penalty equal to the level of this Flaw. If you tie, the 
penalty is halved (round down). If you win, you suffer no side-effects. 
This Flaw can only be taken if you have some kind of enhancement, and 
cannot be removed unless that enhancement is also removed. 
FAULTY 
ENHANCE~ENTS 
(2-5 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


bonus Traits (Brutal x 3, which can take you over your maximum). The 
downside is that all you can do is fight. You cannot use any weapon more 
advanced than a firearm, and you cannot concentrate enough to use 
any Procedure or Device. Tactics more involved than charge and kill 
everything are incomprehensible. Once in this state, you cannot leave 
the fight or exit this state until all opponents are dead. The Storyteller 
may also require you make a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty 10) to 
recognize and avoid attacking allies. Control will have you terminated 
when you finally go too far, by the way, so have fun while it lasts. 
DE~ENTED 
EIDCBLCBN 
(3 T m  FMW) 
No one told your Genius it was supposed to be a guide to an 
Enlightened man. Instead, it fills your head with mystic ideas and 
images, and is wholly not in line with the paradigm. You see your 
Eidolon as others see their Avatar, and it often is at odds with your 
Technocratic allegiance. At some point, you will most likely go mad, 
or be forced to leave the Union (in which case the Flaw must be bought 
off). In the meantime, all Seekings are at a plus one-Trait difficulty. 
RCBTTEN 
 LIAR^ TRAIT 
FMW) 
Some people can lie to their priests. You can’t even lie your way into 
bed. Anytime you attempt to deceive, lie or disguise yourself, you suffer 
a two-Trait penalty. 
m~ 
RED TAPE 
(4 TRAIT 
FMW) 
Somehow, you always seem to get put at the bottom of the stack in 
any bureaucracy. Double the time and effort needed for all Bureaucracy 
Influence uses (for instance, faking a death certificate has a cost of six 
levels), as well as other influences (such as Health, University, Police) 
when they involve using official channels and/or paperwork. 
RWUE (4 TRAIT 
FMW) 
You are on your own. You may still be a member of the Technocracy, 
but if you are, it’s only because they haven’t killed you yet. This Flaw 
indicates that you have had your status in the Union changed. One 
option is that you are out and set for destruction. Otherwise, you are still 
in the Union, but with no ability to requisition or receive aid, and are 
constantly sent on suicide missions. Enjoy the ride. 
FIRH DEGREE 
(S TRAIT 
FMW) 
This Flaw indicates you are in big trouble with the Union. You are 
under constant watch by your superiors in the Union, and feel their 
weight upon you. You suffer a three-Trait penalty to all Social tests with 
other Technocrats. The higher-ups still consider you a member of the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Union, so you will still get missions and assignments, though they are 
the worse sort. Further, your coworkers are under no orders to help you 
out, though the reverse is not true. You very rarely get support, and your 
requisitions are frequently lost. Double all internal Requisitions and 
Influence costs for use within the Technocracv. 
TRADITI~N 
~€IERITS 
AND FLAWS 
The following Merits and Flaws, translated from the Guide to the 
Traditions, are particularly appropriate for high-magic games. They 
may not be appropriate for all venues. Storytellers, remember that 
Merits and Flaws are optional - 
these even more so. 
PHYSICAL 
ENHANC~~I-I~NT 
(3* TRAR 
I h u ~ 1  
You have some sort of obvious physical enhancement that sets you 
apart from human - 
and probably makes you look decidedly demonic. 
This could be claws, horns, fangs, hooves or a tail with a barb or stinger. 
These might look mystical, or they could be somewhat mundane (such 
as surgically implanted spikes in your head). One such enhancement 
costs three Traits. Each additional one costs two Traits. Making a tail 
prehensile costs three Traits. One Trait raises the size to a fairly large 
version, and two Traits increases to a huge set of horns, claws or 
whatnot. One Trait also can make such a feature retractable. Each such 
feature grants you an extra Trait in physical combat (two if it's large, 
three if it's huge). On the flip side, you're likely to be noticed. 
So long as you're playing in a private area, you should go out of your 
way to use makeup or prosthetics to represent this Trait. Storytellers 
should feel free to dock experience from players who demand huge 
horns for goring their enemies and then just wear a cheesy card taped 
to the forehead. 
ANACHRCBNISIII 
(I m 3 TRAIT 
RAW) 
You're from out of time - 
literally. You're not familiar with the 
ways of the current century. For one Trait, you're more familiar with the 
ways of a decade from the previous or next century (maybe you were 
raised in a Technocratic Horizon Construct, or you came from the 
past). For two Traits, raise this to two or three centuries away; for three 
Traits, it's further than that. You may require Mental Challenges to use 
simple tools and concepts; a 12th-century freeman probably doesn't 
understand democracy, and a phone is too primitive for a 24th-century 
man to use. 
Failure to roleplay this Flaw and its consequences may result in the 
Storyteller docking experience to buy it off. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


PERS~NAL 
TALIS~AN 
(I TRAIT 
~TERIT 
CBRFFLAW) 
While you're not a master mage yet, you managed to secure help 
from one long enough to make a personal Talisman for yourself. This 
minor Talisman has a Trait of your Willpower, so you have one extra 
Willpower as long as you hold it. It's also an arcane connection to you. 
In conjunction with Backgrounds, it might be a useful Wonder. 
If you take this as a Merit, you still own the item. As a Flaw, it's in 
someone else's hands. 
NINE LIVES (6 TRAIT 
~TERIT) 
For some reason, you have the luck of a cat. Anytime you fail a 
challenge that would result in your death or incapacitation, you gain an 
immediate retest. You can only do this nine times ever, and only once 
on any given challenge. 
~ S I S T A N T  PATERN (7 TRAIT 
~€IERIT) 
I~I-I~I-IUNITY 
(VARIABLE 
TRAIT 
r€Ierur) 
Your Pattern is particularly stalwart and doesn't suffer damage 
easily. All aggravated damage is treated as lethal damage to you. 
You have complete Immunity to one or more substances or attack 
forms that would normally injure or kill you. The power of your 
Immunity varies with the cost. 
Two Traits 
Four Traits 
Six Traits 
Eight Traits 
10 Traits 
12 Traits 
Immune to one very minor nuisance or rare threat: 
The bite of a chimera or sunburn. 
A major or uncommon threat: poisons, diseases, 
death magic. 
Terminal or common threats: Fire, drowning. 
Invulnerable to all physical harm, but with one 
large weak spot or vulnerability to one common 
item (vulnerable in the chest or to fire, for 
instance). 
Invulnerabule with one small weak spot (the heel); 
or, one rare bane (mistletoe dagger); or, one common 
bane in a large spot (fire in the chest); or, immune to 
all but aggravated damage, or to damage 
inflicted by a specific condition (by your own body, 
with your Phyhtery). 
Immune to all but one very rare bane (radiation, 
specific spell); or one rare bane in specific circum 
stances (mistletoe dagger wielded by a woman) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


wielded by a red-headed woman on the night 
of the full moon) 
Immune to all but one unique, specific bane 
(A Tradition Blade, Excalibur, etc.) 
For half cost, you take only half damage from the subject of the 
specified immunity. 
CAST N e  SHAD~W 
CBR RWLECTI~N 
(I TRAIT 
FLAW) 
You do not show up in mirrors or other silvered reflective surfaces. 
You can still be caught on digital camera and color film, but you don't 
show up on the emulsion for black and white film. 
TCBUCH 
FR~ST (I r m  
FLAW) 
Your touch is cold, and transmits that cold. When you touch living 
people, they shiver; make your touch known. When you touch animals, 
they flee. Plants shrivel and die. 
VULNERABILITY 
(1 TCB 7 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
This is the reverse of Immunity. Some common substance does 
One unique item can fatally injure you (The 
Heel of St. Vitus) 
Something very rare can fatally injure you 
(rose petals blessed by the Pope) 
Something moderately common can injure 
you (iron, sunlight) 
Something very common can injure you 
(water, air) 
grievous harm to you. 
Three Traits 
You rake one health level of aggravated damage per turn in contact 
with your Vulnerability. For an extra Trait, you die instantly if contacted 
by the substance. For another Trait, being in the same room as the Flaw 
causes you damage. For one less Trait, you must actually be struck by the 
substance as if it were used as a weapon. 
" 
BWT WITHIN 
(S TRAIT 
FLAW) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


BEDEVILED 
(6 TRAIT 
FLAW) 
The devil - 
or some sort of powerful supernatural entity - 
is out 
to get you. You don’t know what it is, but something wretched always 
happens to you at the last minute. Once per game the Storyteller may 
intervene and negate any one success you make completely; no test is 
required. 
DISPARATE 
The Traditions and Technocrats aren’t the only players in the 
battle for enlightenment. Hidden in the sidelines and among the cracks 
are the Disparates - 
small Crafts of independent mages who refuse to 
take sides and practice separate cultural magics. 
AHLTBATIN 
”Inscrutable” and “confusing” are two words frequently used to 
describe the Ahl-i-Batin. Ever since they first revealed themselves to 
other mages, they have always been a mysterious group. Their views on 
unity and faith have carried them through the ages, even when most 
thought they had died out. 
During the formation of the Council of Nine, the Ahl-i-Batin were 
instrumental in contacting mages all over the world and bringing them 
together so they might share ideas and debate philosophies. Underlying 
the Batini’s desire to bring the disparate groups together, though, was 
their belief that the true path to enlightenment was through the unity 
of thought and belief. They believed that unity, cemented with faith, 
would result in a greater good that would bring all Mankind to 
Ascension. 
Shortly after the forming of the Council of Nine and the events of 
the First Cabal, the Batini dropped from sight, leaving the Seat of 
Correspondence empty until the Virtual Adepts defected from the 
Technocracy. Many believed the Technocracy exterminated the Batini 
when they made a push into the Middle East, but over the centuries, 
Tradition mages spoke of seeing strange mages using Arabic trappings. 
Their purpose and goals were unknown; all that could be guessed was 
that they fought the Technocracy as the Traditions did. 
In truth the Ahl-i-Batin have always been here - 
they just chose 
to remain secret. The Ahl-i-Batin had discovered many secrets, and 
had made just as many enemies, and it was safer for them to “disappear” 
from the world. Yet, even while hidden, they altered and manipulated 
from the shadows. Quietly they sought to maneuver the Sleepers toward 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Ascension, and they remain a considerable power in their homelands 
of the Middle East, even with the incursions of the Technocracy. 
Roleplaying Hints: The Batini are called the Subtle Ones for a 
reasons. The Batini do not isolate themselves to remain hidden, though 
- instead, they integrate themselves wholly. From their hidden 
positions among the Sleepers, the Batini may manipulate Sleepers and 
mages alike. Just as they are able to seamlessly integrate themselves as 
sleepers, however, they can also drop whatever role they play and pick 
up another just as easily -one day a healer, the next a beggar, the next 
a taxi driver. The Batini are masters of hiding in plain sight. Many 
Batini count themselves among the faithful of Islamic religions. 
Specialty Sphere: Correspondence 
Common Foci: Prayer, meditation, music, dancing, pen and ink 
Advantage: The Subtle Ways 
The subtlety of the Ahl-i-Batin has been enforced so strongly by 
the mages themselves and all who know of them that all Batini start the 
game with an extra Trait ofArcune. New Batini characters may start the 
game with up to six Arcane traits. Furthermore, the Subtle Ones may 
enact the Rite of Occultation (see Hidden Paths, page xx) upon 
themselves and increase their Arcane Traits up to a maximum of 10. 
Only Batini may uses the Rite of Occultation; it simply does not work 
on mages of other Traditions for reasons that have never beenexplained. 
Disadvantage: Removed From Fate 
Due to what some believe to be a Euthanatos curse, or maybe as a 
side-effect of their natural subtlety and seeming invisibility, Batini 
seem to be cut off from the control of Fate, which seems a paradox for 
the most subtle of all mages to be unable to effect the subtlest of all arts. 
Batini are unable start with or learn Entropy, ever. They essentially are 
all Sphere Inept at Entropy. This Disadvantage may never be bought off 
like the Flaw. 
SISTERS 
w HIPPWYTA 
The Sisters of Hippolyta are an extended, entirely female family of 
Awakened willworkers and Enlightened Sleepers. Their historical 
roots lie with the ancient Amazons, but the Sisters of today have little 
in common with their violent, man-hating ancestors. The Sisters live 
most of their lives in isolated communities called conclaves; in the 
conclaves, they work together to produce food and commodities, 
engage in shared governance, and nurture each other's spiritual growth. 
'/ ' 
;"J ; 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Some Sisters spend considerable time away from their conclaves, 
working in the outside world and helping the needy, then bringing back 
skills and tools to the community. Among the Sisters can be found 
physicians, computer programmers, teachers, accountants, farmers and 
chefs - 
any woman who professes her belief in the Sisters' communal 
lifestyle (with its joys of sisterhood and its isolation from the outside 
world) is welcome. For all their other duties, the Sisters do not neglect 
the magical arts. Skilled healers of mind and body, and intuitive 
diviners of time and nature, these mystics conduct their arts as rituals 
and celebrations of family ties. Their magic glorifies the unique nature 
of women, their voices, their inner strength, their connection to the 
earth and their ability to create life. Each Sister is a power unto herself, 
but with in the framework of communal magic, the group becomes 
mightier than the individual. 
The near-fanatical devotion to the group over the individual is the 
thorn of this paradise, though. Those who forsake the community and 
return to the outside world are commonly cast from the Craft completely. 
Whether the Sister leaves due to love, familial duty or because of a 
disagreement is immaterial. While the Craft sanctions temporary 
sojourns, the Sisters consider each member who leaves permanently to 
be like a thread pulled from the tapestry of the community. In the 
Sisters' minds, those who depart and don't return have joined the 
enemy, and their relatives and companions share the blame for their 
defection. 
Roleplaying Hints: Yes, they are all women, There are no men in 
the Sisterhood. Period. The Sisters are not man-haters, though - 
they 
simply do not believe they can exercise the power of their womanhood 
in the outside world. If a Sister was in a position to help a man in need, 
she would-not 
doing so would deny the nurturing nature of a woman's 
heart and lessen the Sisterhood as a whole. The Sisters believe strongly 
in the cycles of birth, life, death and rebirth. They see their ability to 
create and bear children as a metaphor for their spirituality which gives 
them a mystical tie to the power of creation. 
Specialty Sphere: Life 
Common Foci: Dance, poetry, song, meditation, massage, techno- 
logical devices, sex, childbirth 
Advantage: Sister's Synchronization 
Since its creation, the Sisterhood has approached everything as a 
team effort. They do not concentrate on the group and the things the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


group can accomplish as a one. Because of this, Sisters are very skilled 
in leading and directing people in team efforts, from planting a field, to 
finding a lost child, to dealing with a wife-beater. In any mass or mob 
challenge where the Sister is the leader, she has a two-Trait competency 
bonus, and any member of her group may spend an Ability retest for the 
group, even if she is not the leader. Only one member of the group may 
make an Ability retest per challenge. 
Disadvantage: Samantha's Tears 
Women who live and learn under the Sisters become very used to 
their acceptance in the conclave, and when they are in the normal 
world, they find themselves pining for it. This is not to say the Sisters 
are weak; they just become so used to the environment of the conclave 
that they suffer an erosion of their morale. To represent this, Sisters 
regain Willpower at half the normal rate of other mages. If the game 
replenishes willpower at the beginning of each session for easier 
bookkeeping, then Sisterhood characters must spend one extra 
Willpower whenever they spend Willpower. This Disadvantage is 
negated if the Sister is at one of the few conclaves that the Sisterhood 
runs away from society. 
In Arabic mythology, there are stories of magi who bound and 
commanded djinn, rode on flying carpets, and laid curses that make 
even the most malicious Verbena blush. These are the Taftani, born 
from the cradle of civilization when Babylon was at its height. These 
willworkers are thought by some to be the bravest of all mages; others 
see them as the most absurd. 
The Taftani worship the ideal of a world of truth and order, and 
fight against the forces of deceit and chaos, which they believe are 
embodied in the Technocracy. The Taftani believe the world as we 
know it is created by the friction between Asha (the force of truth and 
order) and Druj (the force of chaos and deceit). And the truth is that 
they have been gifted their power by the ancient gods to shape reality. 
This entitlement from the gods does not give them the right to do 
magic, though. It requires them to perform magic as a show of their faith 
and belief in their gods and paradigm. Taftani culture dictates that they 
must inflict their wills on reality to fight the forces of Druj. 
The Taftani also represent throwbacks to older times - 
their 
magics are based on the beliefs and practices of ancient Babylon. Their 
fabled King Suleiman the Wise granted them some of their most valued 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


lore, especially the Solomonic Code, the mysterious rules of order that 
all djinn must follow. The Craft's adherence to the old ways has been 
a constant stumbling block to the Technocracy's attempts to wipe out 
the Traditions in the Middle East. How does a Technocratic agent 
convince a populace that magic is not real and can be explained away 
with science and logic, when there is a madman on the mountain who 
can summon djinn and bend them to his will? The Taftani pay dearly 
for their fidelity to Asha and the gods, however. Most end up dying by 
their own hand due to an overabundance of Paradox. They accept this 
as part of the war that they must wage against the Technocracy's 
paradigm. Remarkably enough, the Taftani's constant use of obvious 
and memorable vulgar Effects has been able to jam a wedge in the 
Technocratic paradigm and halt or push back its advance. The Taftani 
also have an abhorrence for coincidental Effects, as they see such as 
giving in to the lies of the Technocracy. It is only through fighting for 
what they believe to be the truth and retaining their freedom to act in 
any way that they like that the Taftani have managed to survive. 
Roleplaying Hints: Taftani take a rather arrogant view of their 
position in the world. They do believe that they have the right to do 
magic any way they like and everybody else be damned. They carry this 
attitude into everything that they do, and consequently, they do not 
present themselves as the most sociable of mages, even among each 
other. Taftani hate being limited, even by their own failings; they 
believe that the only way to remain free is to keep one's options open. 
Because of this, they try to be prepared for anything that might happen 
and learn a very broad array of skills so they can meet any situation 
prepared and ready to act. Many apprentices are required by their 
masters to show aptitude in many different skills before they are taught 
anything of magic. This has a secondary effect, though - 
because these 
mages concentrate so much on mastering their mundane abilities, they 
need not use their devastating and vulgar magics until they are more 
than ready. 
Specialty Sphere: Spirit 
Common Foci: Poetry, art, crafting, swords, bottles and other 
Advantage: Code of Solomon 
Taftani apprentices are taught early on about the Solomonic Code, 
how it applies to the beings of the Invisible World, and the rules that 
all spirits must follow. By applying their knowledge, Taftani are able to 
manipulate certain spirits much easier than most other mages. In all 
vessels, prayer 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


dealings with djinn, Banes and elementals, Taftani have a two-Trait 
competency bonus to any Social Challenges with those spirits. 
The Taftani do not attempt to hide their Resonance, and see it as 
a badge of identity and honor. A Taftani with little Resonance is 
obviously not trying to reawaken the magic in the world like his 
brethren, and is likely to be snubbed by them. Further, suppressing one's 
Resonance is seen as suppressing the truth of oneself and a mortal 
affront to the gods from whom magic springs. A Taftani who has very 
pronounced Resonance displays it proudly, and is respected and revered 
by his fellows. Because of the feeling of self-worth that this high 
Resonance gives, a Taftani with a combined number of Entropic and/ 
or Dynamic Resonance Traits equaling five receives a bonus Social 
Trait of Confident. A combined number of Entropic and Dynamic 
Traits equaling 10 grants a second Confident Trait. 
Disadvantage: Accepting the Lie 
The Taftani abhor coincidental magic because they feel it only 
strengthens the structure of the Technocracy. Only by resisting what 
they perceive as the problem can they defeat the lie that permeates 
reality. Because of these strong beliefs, a Taftani must spend a Willpower 
Trait in order to accept the lie for one round and perform a coincidental 
Effect. This penalty does not apply if they are creating an Effect in an 
area where their paradigm is supported, such as their Sanctum or an 
Umbral Realm. 
Most people have heard the history of the Templars, an order of 
knights founded in 11 19 to protect pilgrims on the roads to Jerusalem. 
During the Crusades, they were regarded as some of the most brave and 
valiant warriors; they were the first into battle and the last to retreat (in 
fact, one of their tenets forbade retreat). The Templars not only became 
militarily successful but economically powerful, and this led to many 
rumors. After the fall of Jerusalem to the Muslims, the rumors became 
accusations, and in 1307 King Philip the Fair of France ordered all 
Templar Knights arrested on charges of heresy. Most of the knights 
recanted their "heresy" and joined other orders as penance, except for 
Jacques de Molay, the Grand Master of the order. He claimed that there 
was no heresy among the Knights Templar, and before his execution he 
stated that Philip the Fair and the Pope would stand with him before 
God's Throne in judgment before the end of the year; both of them died 
in that same year. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This is the history that the Sleepers know. In actuality, the Knights 
Templar were allied with the Cabal of Pure Thought, a member of the 
Order of Reason, and when the accusations of heresy were handed 
down, the remaining Templars went underground and joined the 
Cabal’s membership. From their shelter, the Templars shepherded 
Christendom while remaining out of sight. During the turbulent years 
of the Reformation, the Templars grew to see all of Christendom as their 
charge, and began to limit their foes to the supernatural enemies of 
Christ. In 1837, the Order of Reason came to the conclusion that 
religion and faith were superstitious tripe to be expunged from Consensual 
reality, and any who strengthened religion needed to be removed. The 
Order attacked the Templars and killed many of them, but those who 
retreated and survived went even deeper underground. 
The Templars exist today as a secret magical order that follows four 
major tenets, known as the Edicts of the Just - 
1) Strive to create anew 
Christendom that is not created in the image of the Order of Reason; 
2) Defend the innocent from the horrors of the supernatural and 
infernal; 3) Defeat the Order of Reason and gain justice for their 
betrayal and their promulgation of irreligion; and 4) Preserve the Order 
itself, with secrecy being the paramount directive. Over the past 150 
years, the Order of Knights Templar have persevered, never surrender- 
ing, knowing that their mission to shepherd and protect the innocent 
in the name of God is what has brought them through all their past 
difficulties. 
Roleplaying Hints: The Knights Templar are not all Catholic as 
they used to be and now encompass all of Christendom. They just 
require that their Knights agree on the primacy of the Gospel, and 
doctrinal argument within the Order is forbidden; theological debate is 
best left to theologians not warriors. And Templars do not fight for the 
ascension of mankind, they instead work to restore Christendom to 
what it was in ancient and believe that when this is done shall herald 
for the Reconciliation of God and the Salvation of the entire world. But 
it is very hard to do this with sword and shield; they now fight these 
battles with words in court rooms, universities, and parliaments; quietly 
they manipulate man and shepherd him into the loving arms of Christ. 
Specialty Sphere: Forces 
Common Foci: Bibles, altars, Eucharist, hymnal, crosses or cruci- 
Advantage: Apocalyptic Destiny 
fixes, flagellation, guns, knightly mantle, shields, sword, prayer 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The Templar knights do not merely believe they are the chosen 
warriors of Christendom - 
they know they are such. They know that 
they are the guardians of the innocent in the coming Apocalypse, and 
are prepared to face their destiny head on. Because of this knowledge, 
Templars get an extra number of traits of Destiny equal to their Arete 
rating (up to a maximum of five). These are bonus Destiny Traits and 
add on to any Destiny Traits bought at character creation. As the 
character increases his Arete rating, his Destiny also increases with it. 
A Templar character may have greater than five Destiny because of his 
bonus Traits, but still is limited to a Destiny x 5 when buying the Traits 
at character creation. Also the bonus Destiny of the Templar character 
cannot be removed by the Storyteller until -well, until the Storyteller 
happens to run the Apocalypse, and then the bonus Destiny is gone 
because it has been fulfilled. 
Disadvantage: Scourge of God 
Part of the oath of becoming a Templar is to be humble in the eyes 
of God and to accept His judgment above all others. Templars believe 
that Paradox is God showing His disfavor over something that the 
Templar has done. Because of this, Templars believe that they must 
take the judgment of God immediately because to make God wait is the 
highest form of hubris. Whenever a Templar spends a Willpower Trait 
in order to hold off a Paradox Flaw or backlash, he is at a Trait penalty 
equal to the number of accumulated Paradox on all magical Effect tests. 
This penalty immediately goes away after the Paradox has been allowed 
to dissipate. 
The Wu Keng did not start off as a Craft unto themselves. Originally, 
they were disparate shamans who tended to the spiritual matters of their 
home villages. They were brought together when their practices were 
outlawed by the secular Chou dynasty around 1000 BC. Many of the Wu 
avoided death by pursuing scholarly endeavors, while others maintained 
their shamanistic practices. Ofthe few who remained in their ancestors' 
villages, tending to the spirits for the villagers, some wished to restore the 
greatness of the past. Banding together, these shamans and scholars 
formed the Wu Keng, and they guarded the secrets of the spirit world 
preparing for a time when their lore would be necessary. To insure their 
success they made a deal with the ancient spirits of Feng-tu, the land of 
the dead. These spirits promised that after three millennia of devout 
service, they would renew the power and authority of the Wu Keng over 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the affairs of man. There was a catch, though - 
the magi would have to 
remain hidden and stay behind the scenes of the civilized world, using 
their magics only in the subtlest ways; and any who they taught would also 
become servants of the spirits. 
Though the Wu Keng survived, they suffered greatly at the hands 
of their masters. During their most grueling trial, the entire Craft was 
captured and imprisoned by the cruel First Emperor Qin Shihuang and 
tortured mercilessly. The Feng-tu masters of the Wu Keng came to their 
rescue, but exacted payment for their assistance. The spirits ordered the 
Wu Keng to dress and act as women for the remainder of their service - 
the Yin energy of doing so would balance the aggressive Yang energy 
and make them subtler. As part of this punishment, and as a reminder 
of the shame of being captured, all Wu Keng had to bind their feet in 
the traditional Chinese way, resulting in slender mutilated feet that 
forced them to take mincing (and painful) steps. Further, they could not 
alleviate the pain by any means. 
Now, with the third millenniaof their service just past, the Wu Keng 
find that their founders, the Chou-an, have betrayed them. The Chou- 
an were the six remaining shamans from the Chou dynasty, and, 
according to the spirits of Feng-tu, betrayed the pact by teaching their arts 
to others who were not made servants of the spirits. Because of this, the 
spirits of Feng-tu have extended the deal for another millennia, and 
added another clause to it: The Wu Keng are to find all the Chou-an and 
their pupils and destroy them. This has a new catch, however - 
the 
spirits of Feng-tu will not let the Wu Keng teach any new mages, unless 
it is a replacement for one who has died. The oldest of the Wu Keng 
continually plead to the spirits to let them swell their ranks to fight this 
war in which they are finding they are outnumbered, but their pleas 
always fall on deaf ears. 
Roleplaying Hints: Yes, the Wu Keng are all cross-dressing male 
mages; this means that players should either dress themselves as women 
or be women. Yes, they serve otherworldly masters. The Wu Keng do 
not think too much about their pact with the spirits of Feng-tu, and 
instead busy themselves with doing their masters' bidding, because 
tarrying on a task brings quick and painful punishment. Wu Keng tend 
to act like traditional Chinese women, quiet and humble, their feet 
bound, in remembrance of their shame. The Wu Keng do not actively 
hunt their wayward brethren, mainly because the spirits of Feng-tu keep 
them busy on other tasks, but they will attempt to destroy anythey find. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Specialty Sphere: Forces 
Common Foci: Painting, calligraphy, poetry, language, wood carv- 
Advantage: Wedding Gift of Feng-Tu 
During character creation, the player may choose an Effect up to 
Disciple level to have as a permanent Effect (subject to Storyteller 
approval). These “gifts” are given to the mage by his Feng-tu “mate” and 
master as rewards for faithful service. These gifts are not truly magical, 
do not gamer Paradox, and are not eroded by disbelief. The gift chosen 
may not be a Spirit or Time Effect, and may not be a conjunctional 
Sphere Effect. The Effect may not have any extra grades of success. 
With Storyteller permission, a mage may take an extra gift, but the 
character also receives five Traits in Flaws of the Storyteller’s choosing. 
Disadvantage: Mandates of Feng-tu 
All Wu Keng are forced to dress and live like traditional Chinese 
women, to counteract the Yang of their male natures and bring them 
more into balance. Because of this, they receive the Negative Social 
Trait: Passive. The Wu Keng are also forced to bind their feet in the 
traditional way, a practice that is painful and crippling. They receive 
the Negative Physical Trait: Lame from this. 
The Feng-tu spirits do not approve of their “wives” practicing the 
arts of Spirit or Time magic. Therefore, the Wu Keng are forbidden to 
learn or use either any way. In game terms, Wu Keng characters may 
never learn any levels of the Spirit or Time Spheres. If a Wu Keng uses 
a Device or Wonder that works with Time or Spirit magic, he gains 
Paradox equal to the Wonder’s level, as he has angered his master and 
is punished harshly. 
~ 
A group of mysterious old women are the founders of this Craft, 
teaching the young to dance in the halls of the gods and speak with the dead 
as the old shamans of China once did before the Chou Dynasty outlawed 
such practices. These six women traveled throughout eastern and 
southeastern Asia in search of potential students. They sought those who 
could still touch the spirits of their loved ones, and they sought the 
link to the spirit world. They gathered their students into circles, teaching 
9, 
1 :. 
, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


gods. Each circle was taught quickly, then a new circle of pupils was 
gathered. Over a two-year period, the little group of subtle ladies created a 
formidable number of shamans. 
The mysterious teachers taught their pupils, called the Wu Nung, 
two things. The first lesson was the ways to woo and flatter the gods and 
the etiquette required to gain their favor. The second lesson was on the 
ways of demons, specifically how to fight them effectively. The Wu 
Nung returned to their communities, from squalid inner cities to far- 
flung farming villages, and took up the mantle as spiritual guides of their 
communities. They rebuilt belief and respect for the spirits and old gods, 
slowly bringing back the culture of old China. In many places, the 
Shamans are still persecuted by the secular state, but they are usually 
hidden and supported by their faithful communities. 
The numbers of the Wu Nung grew by leaps and bounds. The 
groups taught by the beneficial old ladies spread and took on more 
apprentices and taught them the ways of the gods. Then, almost 
overnight, things changed for the worse. Early in 2001, the beneficial 
ladies, who were the most learned among them, disappeared and have 
not been seen since. Soon after, there were reports of groups of Shamans 
being attacked by ladies like their original teachers. Many of their 
number have died at the hands of this mysterious new threat that they 
do not fully understand. Rumors claim that these are old students of the 
beneficial ladies who have somehow fallen from the grace of the gods. 
The Wu Nung now build their number in preparation for what they see 
as a coming war. 
Roleplaying Hints: The Wu Nung's magic comes from their 
consorting with the old Chinese gods and spirits of the dead. They write 
poetry to these gods to gain their favor and attention, but there are very 
strict protocols that must be observed with each god to keep from 
angering them. The Shamans commonly go through many steps in the 
creation of a single Effect, and even after the Effect has been done, they 
make sure that the gods are sufficiently appeased. These practices 
become part of their daily lives; for example, they pray over a meal to 
three different gods in thanks for the meal itself, the fire that cooked it, 
and the spirits of the animals and plants that gave of themselves for it. 
A peasant Shaman is likely to be considered a superstitious person who 
does odd things at odd times in appeasement for different spirits and 
gods. Usually they are small acts of supplication and thanks, but they 
become far more elaborate rituals to court the spirits' affections and 
attention in the workings of something major. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Specialty Sphere: Spirit 
Common Foci: Painting, calligraphy, poetry, language, wood carv- 
Advantage: Oni Slayer 
The mysterious mentors of the Wu Nung hinted that they had served 
demonic masters in the past, and had recorded the weaknesses, strengths, 
needs and desires of their masters during that service. They taught this 
knowledge to the Wu Nung, impressing on them the necessity of fighting 
fire with fire. This training gives Shamans an advantage when fighting 
demons and Banes. The Wu Nung receives a one-Trait training bonus to 
any challenge when in combat against a demon or Bane. This bonus applies 
if the mage is initiating or defending against a challenge with a demon or 
Bane, or if she attempts to perform an Effect against such a beast. 
ing, sewing, flower arranging, feng shui 
Disadvantage: Loss of the A-ma 
About a year ago, the mentors of the Shamans disappeared. It is 
believed by some that they are in hiding and will come to the aid of the 
Shamans when they need it. Others believe some evil force discovered that 
they were teaching the lost ways and destroyed them. All that is known is 
that the mentors of the Shamans are gone, and the Wu Nung must now 
teach themselves how to carry on the mission. In game terms a Shaman 
cannot start with the Mentor or Library Backgrounds, and any Spheres 
above Disciple level must be taught to them by a mage of another Tradition. 
Some people are raised in certain paradigms, then learn about 
others, and grow to combine the beliefs, fears and differing aspects of 
reality into one cohesive worldview. Everybody does this - 
it is a 
natural way of life and a way of evolving with the changing times and 
the shrinking of the world. We are born into one culture, but have easy 
exposure to other cultures and tend to take parts of those cultures into 
our own. We accept their art, their stories and even parts of their 
language without too much thought. Because the culture we live in 
changes, the world culture globalizes. But this mixing of paradigms and 
beliefs has a very profound effect on the World of Darkness. 
Each culture is built on certain mythic threads, bits of mythology and 
belief that endure even in the Technocratic society of today. These 
threads are the reason why some things can be done with magic and some 
things cannot. Certain mythic threads are more powerful in some places 
than others because the culture supports them in one place and does not 
in another. For instance, in Ireland the mythic thread of “the little 
THE 
@RPHANS 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


people,” the fae and the spirits of the land is still very strong. People report 
seeing evidence of a brownie or a selkie, and they warn their children 
away from certain moors saying they are haunted by the bane-sidhe. 
Verbena and their magic find few challenges to certain Effects in this 
region because of the strength of those particular mythic threads. Were 
that same Verbena to visit midwestern America and attempt the same 
feats, she’d get a rude surprise because the mythic threads have changed. 
In the Midwest, the mythic thread speaks of cattle mutilations and crop 
circles caused by strange little gray men. Both beliefs are of the same 
mythic thread - 
the wild things from parts unknown with mysterious 
powers - 
but viewed through different lenses. 
These mythic threads are important to mages because it is through 
these that they form their own magical paradigms. Some leniency is 
expected in the way that individual members within a Tradition view 
mythic threads, but for the most part all the mages of that Tradition 
believe in and follow those threads. What can happen is that sometimes 
these mixing and clashing cultures can create a confusing welter of 
mythic threads within an individual. While this is usually not a 
problem, sometimes these people come to an epiphany and Awaken. 
Usually it is quite sudden, and goes unnoticed by other mages in the 
area. Some of these are later discovered by a Tradition or the Hollow 
Ones and taught to control their powers; others destroy themselves 
accidentally with a vulgar Effect. Still others simply wander about, lost 
in a world they no longer understand. It is a rare Orphan who is able to 
teach himself how to control his own power and avoid killing himself 
in the process. Those who are discovered by a Tradition rarely become 
productive members of their adoptive Tradition. These lost mages tend 
to move from Tradition to Tradition looking for bits and pieces of 
information that sound like truth to them, learning what they can here 
and there but never quite grasping hold of one paradigm completely. 
Orphans are commonly taken in by the Hollow Ones, who see 
kindred spirits in those who have been so royally screwed by the magical 
world. This feeling of being of kindred may be quite true as the Hollow 
Ones rarely fit into any one grouping of mystical ideas, like the 
Orphans. And like the Orphans, the Hollow Ones are not usually 
respected by the established Traditions and Conventions because their 
belief structure does not match that of the more established groups. 
Here is where the similarities end, though. Orphans tend to be their 
own people and do not necessarily buy into the Hollower idea that the 
world is doomed to decay and destruction. The Orphans are also not 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


counterculture revolutionaries as many of the Hollow Ones claim to be. 
They are in fact the most extreme of individualists, creating their own 
individual paradigms that may be bits and pieces of others meshed 
together but in the end something that is wholly unique to the Orphan. 
So, if Orphans hold this special place in Limbo when it comes to 
other mages, then how do they do certain things like learn rotes and 
Spheres? Must they teach themselves everything from the ground up? 
Mostly, they do have to teach themselves everything. A Storyteller may 
want to include one some, or all of the optional rules below to flesh out 
the special lifestyle that Orphans must lead in the World of Darkness. 
Sometimes an Orphan exhibits traits of more than one Tradition. 
Orphans in this situation usually start by learning with one Tradition 
and then moving on to learn with another one when the original 
Tradition does not fit in with the rest of their beliefs. With the 
Storyteller's approval, the Orphan may take the specialty Sphere of one 
Tradition and take the other Tradition's specialty Sphere as a faction 
Sphere. The Orphan also takes the Tradition Flaw from the Tradition 
his specialty Sphere comes from and the Tradition Advantage from the 
Tradition his faction Sphere comes from. The only exception to this is 
that no Orphan may have the Order of Hermes Tradition Advantage, 
as it is completely dependant on the clout and backing of the Order of 
Hermes. The Orphan would not be able to use that Advantage unless 
he trained with and became accepted as a member of the Order of 
Hermes, which is highly unlikely. 
@ F T I ~ A L  
RULES 
F@R BRPHANS 
~ I X E D  
PARADIGITI 
'FLAWS [ G ~ P T I ~ A L  
RULE) 
AVATAR 
FILTER 
(G~PTICBNAL RULE) 
Some Orphans are born with Avatars that are, for lack of a better 
term, confused. Such Avatars force these mages to become Orphans 
because they are nothing but chaotic whirlwinds of paradigms and 
ideas. An Orphan with a chaotic Avatar must learn everything on her 
own because her Avatar, which ultimately determines the mage's 
ability to use magic, is continually shifting the paradigm. Orphans so 
cursed require twice as long to learn any new Spheres or rotes - 
they 
are spending all that time in guesswork and experimentation as they 
fumble their way through creating Effects. 
On the plus side, these mages' Avatars also result in very flexible 
paradigms, and every new discovery that the mages make in their 
Sphere also gives them new ways to focus their magic. It gives them a 
I 
3; 
f 
, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


little more insight into the natures of their unique Avatars, and a little 
more choice in how they wield their magic. In game terms, every time 
an Orphan increases his level in a Sphere, he may choose a new 
specialty focus for that Sphere or make a specific item used as a focus a 
unique focus. 
DWT%XJRSELF PARA DIG^ (@PTI~NAL RULE) 
Your average Orphan Awakens with his own preconceived notions 
of the world and the way reality works. Orphans do not have a society 
of mages to guide them and teach them about the magic, so they tend 
to create their own magical paradigms as both a mental defense for the 
shock of Awakening, and to be able to actually manipulate their newly 
discovered power. Because they start with no Traditions to guide them, 
they do not start with the Advantages of any of the Traditions, but 
likewise they do not start with the Weaknesses. 
The player should create a paradigm for the character, and choose 
between five and 10 common foci that the character would use to 
manipulate magical energies. The player also starts with no specialty 
Sphere. The Orphan starts as a tabula m a  as mages go and forges her 
own paradigm in the magical World of Darkness. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


In addition to the rotes and Wonders sampled in Laws of Ascen- 
sion, a near-infinite variety of other magical happenings is possible. In 
order to broaden mage options (especially in games that don't use 
dynamic magic) and simply to offer examples of what mages do with 
magic from day to day, this chapter includes a lengthy listing of rotes, 
Wonders and other magics that you can try out for your games. 
ARCH~AGE 
SPHERES 
( @ P T I ~ A L  RULE) 
This rule only works if you're reudy to have tremendously powerful 
mages in a long-running chronicle. 
As chronicles advance and characters become more powerful, 
there may come a point when a character is able learn Spheres above 
the Master level, by Mastering a given Sphere and raising Arete above 
five Traits. This optional rule facilitates the use of Spheres above the 
Master level. 
The additional levels of magic beyond Advanced level are Superior, 
Exceptional, Ascendant and Transcendent, all of which are classed as 
Archmaster-rank Spheres. Higher levels of Spheres grant a mage much 
greater efficiency in all magical workings with that Sphere. Furthermore, 
they provide benefits in concrete, physical terms, allowing a mage to 
expand slightly beyond human limitations. Each level of a Sphere 
beyond the Master level allows the mage to gain (with experience) one 
additional Attribute Trait above and beyond all other capabilities, 
according to the Sphere's association: Life, Matter and Forces to Physical; 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Entropy, Spirit and Prime to Social; Mind, Correspondence and Time to 
Mental. Archmages thus can have very high Trait maximums, if the 
"Beyond Human Limits" optional rule is in effect (see Laws of Ascen- 
sion p. 123). 
Gaining an archmage Sphere grants a sixth Reputation Trait. No 
further Reputation is earned for levels beyond this. 
When an archmage performs an Effect that uses one of his 
Archmaster Spheres, he automatically gains an additional number of 
grades of success equal to his levels exceeding Master. Thus, using 
Archmaster (Superior) Forces grants one extra grade of success on any 
Forces Effect. Invoking this bonus costs one Quintessence Trait, but 
that single Trait is sufficient to grant all applicable levels. Aconjunctional 
Effect gains bonuses only according to the single highest Sphere 
knowledge used (so the Archmaster will often be tempted to build new 
rotes using his Archmaster Sphere, in order to gain the bonus successes 
- 
which is one reason that Archmasters often become known for 
having a favorite Sphere). 
Learning Archmaster-level Spheres takes twice as long as usual 
(four sessions per Sphere level, or two for a specialty Sphere). The 
Superior level costs 16 experience, Exceptional costs 20 experience, 
Ascendant costs 24 experience and Transcendent costs 28 experience 
Traits as a specialty Sphere. For a non-specialty Sphere, the cost is 201 
25/30/35. 
THE C@NT€ST€D 
%T 
RULE 
(CBPTICBNAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you believe strongly that no magical Effect should 
be a sure thing. 
Some rotes or Effects might not always list a need for a challenge. 
Even if not listed, assume that a challenge is always required for an 
Effect that has an immediate, direct effect on a character - 
whether it 
means dropping a conjured piano on someone or striking with a curse 
that causes infertility 10 years later. The caster, after performing the 
Effect, must make a follow-up challenge against the target. The Traits 
used depend upon the spell: aiming the conjured piano mentioned 
above would pit the caster's Mental Traits against the target's Physical 
Traits. In general, attacks on the body use Physical, mental and occult 
attacks use Mental, and spiritual or emotional attacks use Social. 
GRADES a= 
PBWER (CBPTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you want mges to risk casting more powerful 
spells in order to have a stronger chance at affecting their targets, especially 
for mages with high Arete and Sphere levels. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The "grades of power" rule assumes that, when a mage generates 
grades of success for a spell, these could potentially be used to make the 
spell more powerful in its targeting, instead of increasing its duration or 
area. A caster may trade one grade of success for two additional Traits 
in any follow-up challenge resolution, such as the test to strike an 
enemy with a conjured lightning bolt or to penetrate a mind shield. 
This could even precipitate an overbid. Remember, though, that no 
amount of modifiers can raise a character's Trait total for a challenge 
above double the character's normal number of unaided Traits in a 
given Attribute (that is, a mage who normally has seven Physical Traits 
can never bid more than 14 Physical Traits in a challenge, regardless of 
aids and bonuses). 
Three months 
EXTENDED 
GRADES w DURATI~N 
(@PTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you feel the need for a much larger scope of lasting 
Effects in your game, beyond the grades presented in the core rules. 
Sometimes a player is going to want to create an Effect that he 
wants to last for much longer than the basic rules allow. It is suggested 
that no Effect should be created to last for more than one month, but 
depending on how you wish to run your game and the scope of the game 
that you are playing, having Effect durations longer than a month may 
be needed. Set out below is a quick chart for the grades of duration 
beyond one month. 
For these Effects, the character is going to have expend more than 
the normal amount of energy to extend the duration to the levels listed 
below. The reason this extra energy has to be expended is because the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Effect has to stand up to the erosive effects of consensual reality. Even 
long-lasting coincidental Effects will eventually be worn away. To 
simulate this, beside each grade of success is a listing for any extra grades 
of success that have to be expended past the normal grades of success for 
extra grades of duration. For example, if Gary wants to increase the 
duration of an Effect that has a standard duration of one month to two 
years, then he would have to spend 1 1 grades of success -five for each 
grade of duration as listed below, plus six more for the extra cost (one 
for two months, three months, six months and 12 months; and two 
more for two years). 
SHAPECHANGING 
Shapechanging is one of those sticky areas in a LARP because it 
takes the greatest amount of suspension of disbelief of all the players to 
be able to roleplay with it properly. For this reason you may want to limit 
how you allow mages to use shapechanging Effects. Listed below are 
some examples of ways to deal with shapechanging rotes and a few 
examples of such rotes that may show up in your game. 
Appearance Changes 
These changes are done to conceal a character’s appearance either 
for stealth or subterfuge. When a mage is concealing her features in this 
way, the player should either hold her chin with her hand, or hold her 
hand in front of her face, to represent that she does not look the way that 
other characters would recognize her. If necessary the player should 
announce to people out of character what she looks like when she does 
that. Listed below are three variations on disguising effects. 
Hello, my name is...: Adept Mind. This rote, created by a rather 
resourceful Hollow One, has been adopted by other Traditions in 
differing forms. The Hollower would take a “Hello, my name is ...” 
sticker and write on it the name of what she wanted to look like. Doing 
this took advantage of the fact that most people took things they saw 
for granted. Whatever she wrote on the tag and stuck on herself was 
what people saw - 
she drew a small badge, and people saw a cop; she 
wrote “Bob Dole” and looked like an impotent presidential candidate. 
The Effect does not allow the mage to look inhuman or inanimate. Any 
person who is interacting with the mage under this Effect, and has some 
form of heightened sensory perception, may make a Mental Challenge 
against three times the mage’s Arete Traits to notice there is something 
wrong with what he is seeing. Technological devices are not fooled by 
this Effect. The Effect lasts for one minute/conflict. Grades of Success: 
Increase the grade of duration. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Camouflage Field Generator: Disciple Forces. This rote, created by 
the Sons of Ether, uses etheric manipulation to form a pattern of light 
around the user so he appears as another person. Etherites commonly 
use this Effect to make their robotic minions look like regular people as 
they are walking around in public. The field can make the affected 
target look like anything that is the same general shape and size of the 
target. Sometimes, though, the field does not show the proper interaction 
with exterior stimuli - 
for instance, the image’s hair might stay perfect 
in a stiff breeze. Any person who is interacting with the mage under this 
Effect may make a Mental Challenge against the caster to notice that 
there is something wrong with what she is seeing. Technological 
devices are just as fooled as anybody else by this Effect. The Effect lasts 
for one minute/conflict. Grades of Success: Increase the grade of 
duration. 
Butcher’s Disguise: Disciple Life. Some of the more pain-oriented 
Cultists use this rote to help disguise themselves or to change their faces 
dramatically. The mage uses a razor blade to cut his face and molds it 
into the appearance that he wants to have. The new face lasts for one 
minute/conflict. When he is done, the mage looks different than when 
he began. The process is quite painful and causes two lethal wounds that 
cannot be healed for as long as the Effect’s duration. When the duration 
ends, the mage heals the damage and his face returns to its original 
shape. The mage has two choices when doing this Effect: he may make 
himself look like a different person, or he may increase his Social Traits 
temporarily. If the mage makes himself look like a different person, 
there is no real way for anybody to see what is really underneath since 
the mage is changed physically. A character who knows the person 
being imitiated might use an Investigation Social Challenge to realize 
that the mage isn’t who he appears to be. If the mage changes his Social 
Traits, he may add three Traits relating to Appearance or intimidation. 
Grades of Success: Increase the grade of duration. 
ANImAL F@ms 
There are two rotes in the main book dealing with taking on animal 
forms: Mutate F o m  (Adept Life) and Perfect Metamorphosis (Master 
Life). Both of these create their own minor problems in game when the 
player needs to make a representation of herself as said animal. Some 
suggestions are for the player to crawl around on all fours, like an 
animal, or to wear a mask of the animal in question. An equally good 
option for those players who are not spryly built or are poor is to hold 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


your hands up at about shoulder height right up against the body with 
the palms facing away from you. 
& I ~ L  IFmrr~ KNCBWLEDGE 
(@PTI~BNAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you want a little more “realism” in your 
shapeshifting at the expense of more complexity. 
Realistically, if you were suddenly changed into a bird, would you 
know exactly how to flap your wings to be able to take flight? If you were 
to shape-change into a wolf, would you be able to decipher the sudden 
increase in your range of olfactory senses and deal with the fact that your 
sight was now only black and white? You probably would be caught off 
guard while in your new form, and so it would be with your character. 
It would take practice for you to actually use this new form to its fullest 
extent. To simulate this difficulty with the new form, a character must 
bid an additional Trait to enter any challenge as an unfamiliar shape 
penalty. With practice, the shapeshifting mage could become used to 
the new senses and body and eliminate the penalty. This knowledge 
may be either bought with experience, or a magnanimous Storyteller 
might grant the knowledge with the appropriate amount of practice 
(one month is usually good). Each Knowledge Ability is specifically 
tailored to one animal form and one alone. For instance, Bob is playing 
a Dreamspeaker named Wind Walker who has Animal Knowledge: 
Eagles. Wind Walker enjoys soaring in the clouds and watching the 
earth below. Today, though, he needs stealth, not soaring ability, so he 
changes himself into an owl; he suffers the unfamiliar shape penalty. He 
sees what he needs to see, and changes into a human form, but not his 
own; since he has been a human his entire life, he suffers no penalty 
from this form. He then decides to change shape one more time into a 
hawk. This time, he receives no penalty, because a hawk and an eagle 
have the same general body form. 
BESTIAL Pmms 
Eventually you are going to have a character who researches or 
creates a rote that changes him into something that is neither animal 
nor human but some type of amalgam between the two. These Effects 
are almost universally Paradoxical - 
how do you explain to reality that 
it’s perfectly acceptable for you to be 20-foot-tall, half-man, donkey- 
creature with lobster claws? The most difficult part about these 
shape-changes is representing them in play without Tom Savini or Ray 
Harryhausen doing your props for you. A suggestion is to have the 
players hold their hands above their head with their fingers out 
stretched. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A couple examples of bestial forms are below, but your players will 
undoubtedly think up even more bizarre creations than these. 
Iron Avatar: Disciple Life, Disciple Matter, Initiate Mind, Initiate 
Prime. By attuning herself to the essence of Kali, a Euthanatos may take 
on the guise of goddess (male members of the Tradition channel the 
form of Shiva). Iron daggers appear in the mage’s hands, and six arms 
sprout from her shoulders. The mage also grows to a height of 10 feet, 
and her skin turns black as night. While in this form, the mage gains 
three extra Physical Traits from the extra arms and blades, and gains an 
extra attack each turn immediately after her initial attack for the turn. 
The transformation lasts for one combat round, after which the mage 
is exhausted and may not initiate any further challenges for the session. 
Grades of Success: One grade gives the mage an extra Healthy health 
level per grade spent. One grade of success increases the grade of 
duration per grade of success spent up to a maximum of one scene/ hour. 
One grade of success increases the bonus Physical Traits by three. 
Avatar Form: Disciple Life, Disciple Mind, Disciple Prime. By 
bringing mind, body and soul into alignment, an Akashic Brother may 
project his Avatar’s form through his own physical body. The mage’s 
skin turns blue and becomes as tough as wood. He also sprouts four extra 
arms that can be controlled as normal, because the Mind part of the 
Effect divides the mind in the ways necessary for controlling the extra 
arms naturally. The mage’s hands glow with a white-blue light of Prime 
energy. While in this form, the mage gains one extra Healthy health 
level, and his Do attacks cause aggravated damage. The transformation 
lasts for only one turn. The mage’s Avatar rating is reduced to zero, and 
he loses all Quintessence stored in his Pattern. When the session ends, 
his Avatar rating returns to normal and he may store Quintessence in 
his Pattern again. Grades of Success: One grade of success increases the 
grade of duration by one per grade spent on it, up to a maximum of one 
scene/ hour. One grade gives the mage an extra action that occurs 
immediately after the character’s initial attack for the turn; one extra 
attack is gained for each grade of success spent in this way. One grade 
of success gives the mage an extra Healthy health level. 
Wonders come in all shapes and sizes, of course; the trick lies in 
determining the Wonder’s capabilities and in assigning it an appropriate 
value. The sample Wonders here serve not only as potential additions 
to a game, but also as guidelines for the capabilities of other Wonders. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The broad, separate classifications for Wonders are: 
Artifact - 
An Artifact is a Wonder with some sort of invoked or 
continuous mystical power. Body armor enhanced by Technocratic 
material science is an Artifact, because it relies on physically enhanced 
properties outside the bounds of normal science. An Artifact costs one 
Trait per level of the Sphere magic involved. Thus, if an item has a 
Disciple-level Effect, it is a three-Trait Wonder. An Artifact’s Effect 
typically has only the base success for the rote or Sphere in question. At 
the Storyteller’s discretion, an Artifact might have extra grades of 
success built in for extra Traits (typically on a one-for-one basis). 
Cham - 
A Charm is a small, single-use, disposable item, such as 
a magic potion or candle. Once it’s used, its effect takes place, but the 
item is gone. A Charm generally works just like an Artifact. It costs one 
less Trait, however, and counts as a set of 10. Therefore, a set of 10 
Charms that invoke a Disciple-level Sphere would cost two Traits. All 
Charms in a set have the same power. 
Fetish- Spirits bound into material objects can grant their powers 
as a type of Wonder. Generally, equate the spirit’s power to a rote of the 
same type; the cost equals a number of Traits equal to the Sphere levels 
involved. Since spirit powers aren’t Paradoxical and just about anyone 
can use them, Fetishes have great advantages. On the downside, the 
spirit might come loose or run out of Power, or simply refuse to work for 
some users. In some cases, a mage must best the spirit in a psychic 
contest (a continuous series of Mental Challenges, with the loser losing 
one Willpower Trait each time until a victor emerges) or else grant it 
Power (through Quintessence, typically one Trait each time the user 
invokes the Fetish). 
Periapt - 
A Periapt is a power source. Every Trait invested in a 
Periapt grants it five Quintessence of storage space. A Periapt typically 
~ 
E 
: 
comes charged, but the mage must see to recharging it with Prime after 
using its power. Like a battery, the Periapt’s Quintessence may be spent 
and then restored. 
Talisman - 
Rare Talismans hold a small piece of the creator’s will. 
A Talisman typically has a single Trait of Arete, at a cost of one Trait. 
This allows the Talisman to invoke Spheres invested into it at the same 
cost as an Artifact. Since the Talisman performs the work, it’s usable 
even by a Sleeper, and it gains any Paradox from the effect. Paradox 
backlashes that do damage reduce the item’s bonus Traits or health 
levels until none are left, at which point the Talisman is broken. On the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


up side, this means that the user didn’t suffer the Paradox effect, so these 
Wonders are popular among mages for working vulgar effects. 
A Wonder can contain multiple powers for the appropriate costs 
added together. 
wCT”RS AND DRAmA 
As rare items of magical mystery, Wonders can add a great deal of 
drama. They’re wonderful McGuffins - 
quest items and gewgaws for 
mages to seek. Unfortunately, too many Wonders in the hands of the 
players can cause a mess. Mages may fall back on the magic item of the 
week, or a few players might hoard all of the Wonders and thereby gain 
disproportionate power. 
It’s possible to create Wonders with phenomenal powers, beyond 
the usual five-Trait system. Such Wonders won’t start out in the hands 
of players’ characters, though. Rather, they tend to be the focus of story 
arcs, often with careful caveats as to why they can’t solve all problems 
-narrow 
set of highly efficient powers, severe drawbacks, have owners 
looking for them, etc. Each and every Wonder should have some story 
behind it and some purpose in the game. 
Speaking of drawbacks, a Wonder’s powers can have limits or 
problems. Such drawbacks mitigate the cost of the Wonder. Typically, 
apply a Flaw as a limit or hindrance, and lower the Wonder’s cost by that 
number of Traits. For instance, a Wonder that causes its holder to suffer 
a minor Vulnerability (as the two-Trait version of that Flaw) would 
knock two Traits from its cost, potentially allowing more powers along 
with the problems. A Wonder might have conditional magic - 
it might 
not work during the day, or on women, or in other strange circumstances. 
Just remember, when players purchase Wonders on starting characters, 
any disadvantage clearly mitigated by the character’s innate capabilities 
(such as the aforementioned Vulnerability granting Wonder held by a 
character with a specific Invulnerability) gains no bonus points for those 
non-drawbacks. 
Ultimately, the Storyteller should shift the values of Wonders as 
necessary to comfortably integrate them into the game. Some games 
will want to make Wonders very rare and thus will raise their Trait value. 
Others will encourage the use of minor Wonders and thus make them 
very cheap. 
Fuel Pellets 
One-Trait Charm 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


quantity of water of no more than eight gallons. The water must then 
be agitated for 15 minutes in a very careful manner away from any open 
flames. At the end of 15 minutes, the water is changed into eight gallons 
of high-octane gasoline. 
Intuitive Medicine Bag 
One-Trait Artifact 
This Wonder is usually shaped like a doctor's bag, but has been 
known to look like a stethoscope or scalpel. With it, the user of the bag 
can intuitively sense the ailments and injuries of a person he tries to 
treat. As long as the user has at least one level of the Medicine Ability, 
he will be up two extra Traits on all Medicine challenges used on a 
Mata Hari's Bobby Pin 
One-Trait Artifact 
This Wonder is usually a hairpin or some small piece of wire. It is 
very small and easy to conceal, and its actual use is hard to determine. 
The pin grants two extra Traits whenever trying to pick a mechanical 
lock. The Wonder unfortunately does not give any kind of bonus against 
electronic locks like keypads or magnetic card locks. 
Motion Sensor 
One-Trait Artifact 
A small hand-held device with a display that shows the location of 
all moving objects in a 180-degree arc in front of the holder of the 
device, up to a range of 10 paces. The display can show movement on 
~ 
Night Vision Bifocals 
One-Trait Artifact 
These bifocal lenses use an Apprentice-level Forces effect to allow 
suffers no ill effects from darkness while wearing these glasses. 
Baby's New Shoes Dice 
Two-Trait Artifact 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This Wonder is usually shaped like a pair of dice, but has also been 
shaped like a deck of cards. The user of the dice can choose to roll them 
again if the first roll is not what was wanted, and he can then choose the 
preferred roll. To activate the dice he simply needs to blow on them, or 
say, “Baby needs a new pair of shoes”, or some other appropriate ritual 
for luck. The user receives the bonus of the Games of Luck (Initiate 
Entropy) Effect, when using this Wonder and only in use of this Wonder. 
Bob’s Pipe 
Two-Trait Artifact/ Periapt, holds five Quintessence 
This rather ordinary-looking pipe tends to be overlooked, some times 
even used without the smoker even realizing its power, for it functions 
like a normal pipe. The pipe is activated when held firmly between the 
teeth on the right side of the mouth and puffed on once - 
which 
expends one of its points of Quintessence. When the pipe is activated 
the user wins all ties on the next Mental Challenge dealing specifically 
and solely with knowledge or Lore. 
Mercury Sword 
Two-Trait Artifact 
This silvery blade is usually attached to a hilt common to most short 
swords. The blade of the sword can be in almost any form imaginable. 
Each sword has a name that it responds to, and when this name is 
chanted to it, the wielder of the blade may shape the blade with his 
hands. Successfully shaping the blade requires a Crafts challenge 
against seven traits and at least a minute of work. The blade may take 
the shape and Traits of a dagger, a rapier or a short sword; it will keep 
this shape until the wielder attempts to reshape it again. When in one 
of these three forms, it assumes all the bonus Traits, Negative Traits, 
damage and abilities of the weapon it is shaped like. 
Force Shield 
Three-Trait Artifact/ Periapt, holds five Quintessence 
This Wonder is shaped like a rather bulky belt, looking a little like 
a comic book hero’s utility belt. It is impossible to conceal under 
clothing, and if it is hidden, it is unable to function. The force shield 
creates a small shield of tangible energy around the wearer that can stop 
one level of damage at the cost of one Quintessence. Any single attack 
that does more than one level of damage is only reduced by a single 
level, with the rest of the damage being applied to the mage. The type 
of damage blocked does not matter- 
it can be bashing, lethal or 
aggravated and the force shield will stop it. The person inside the force 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


shield may attack people as normal as the shield only stops incoming 
energy. 
Magic Eight Ball 
Two-Trait Artifact 
A recent means of divination that has gained popularity. The 
holder of the eight ball asks it a question, and it returns an answer. 
Though usually this is a confusing answer, sometimes these things can 
be frighteningly accurate. The player should ask aNarrator the question 
and the Narrator should choose one of the following answers (at least 
mostly true): Outlook Good, Outlook Not So Good, My Reply Is No, 
Don't Count On It, You May Rely On It, Most Likely, Cannot Predict 
Now, Yes, Yes Definitely, It Is Certain, Very Doubtful, It Is Decidedly 
So, Signs Point to Yes, My Sources Say No, Without a Doubt. 
Carte Blanche 
Three-Trait Artifact 
The carte blanche looks like a simple magnetic strip card with no 
markings on it, but it imitates a legitimate card of a needed type. It can 
be placed in an ATM and allow the mage to withdraw up to $100 a day, 
and it can also be used as a credit card for the same amount. If used on 
a card reading security system, and the owner wins a Static Mental 
Challenge against a difficulty based on the complexity of the security 
system, the card is accepted and whatever was locked now opens. These 
cards tend to gain the attention of the Syndicate, and overusing one can 
cause the Syndicate to liquidate your assets. Furthermore, 
Technocratically enhanced security stations tend to be immune to this 
card's blandishments. 
Efreet Bottle 
Three-Trait Artifact 
These talismans are commonly shaped like small glass or clay 
bottles, sometimes boxes. They are created to trap Umbral beings. By 
pointing the uncorked bottle at the target spirit and beating the spirit 
in an opposed Willpower Challenge, the holder causes the spirit to be 
sucked into the bottle, whereupon the mage may the cork the bottle and 
trap the spirit. This Effect only works on Umbral creatures such as 
Umbrood, demons and spirits. Entities like shapechangers, Bygones 
and Umbral traveling mages are not truly spiritual creatures and have 
a physical form. A spirit trapped in the bottle may not use a Charm to 
reform outside the bottle, and may not affect anything outside the 
bottle. Only one spirit may inhabit one bottle at a time. A spirit may 
t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


escape the bottle if the bottle is destroyed, uncorked or if the spirit wins 
a Static Willpower Challenge against 10 Traits (the spirit must spend 
five Power to do this). After the spirit escapes, the bottle becomes inert, 
and appears to be cracked or the cork has fallen out. Spirits of exceeding 
power, like Celestines and Incarna, may either test to escape every turn 
at no cost or automatically escape at the Narrator’s discretion. Spirits 
trapped in this way tend to become very angry and will seek the 
destruction of the one who trapped them if they escape. These bottles 
are in no way related to the objects created by the Taftani to trap and 
bind djinn; they are in fact cheap knock-offs of the same. 
Mr. Fusion’s Atomic Sleep-Enhancing Mask 
Three-Trait Artifact 
These odd, somewhat uncomfortable sleeping masks are rarely 
found these days, though they were all the rage some 50 years ago; most 
of them now collect dust in curio shops and grandmothers’ attics, their 
magic long vanished. The mask itself is made of “space age polymers” 
that affect the way a wearer sleeps, altering brain waves to give the 
wearer a restful night’s sleep. In game terms, these little Wonders make 
any dream-affecting Effects used upon the wearer three Traits more 
difficult while the mask is worn and the wearer is asleep. 
Sabot of Lud 
Three-Trait Artifact 
This Wonder is a wooden shoe that would fit the average woman’s 
foot. The shoe appears somewhat aged, possibly even petrified, but is 
lightweight and easily carried, though not at all comfortable to wear. 
Now other than shodding a person’s foot, this Wonder has another 
rather impressive effect. If placed on a mechanical or electronic device 
that is as technologically advanced as a steam engine or better, the 
device takes one level of damage, or loses one bonus Trait, for every 
minute that the sabot is in contact with the device. The damage appears 
to be caused by normal wear and tear on the parts. 
Universal Cookbook 
Three-Trait Artifact 
This red and white checkered tome contains recipes for anything 
that you may want to eat, even if it might not usually be edible. The 
owner of the cookbook simply needs some raw material, a modestly 
outfitted kitchen and one hour to work. After an hour in the kitchen, 
the mage has enough nutritious food to feed four people. The food will 
not be a great culinary delight; in fact the best way to describe it would 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


be tasteless - 
but when all you have is crap to eat, tasteless crap is 
preferable to the alternative. 
Vorpal Letter Opener 
Three-Trait Artifact 
This letter opener was created by a very old archmage who had a 
palsy problem and tended to cut himself whenever he was opening a 
letter with his letter opener. He created this in replacement, one that 
could cut through anything that he needed-paper, 
bread, wood, steel, 
diamonds, etc. The one thing it would not cut was living matter. It is 
not a quick cutter, though, because it is a dull blade, and takes a turn for 
the letter opener to cut six inches. 
One of the other things that this handy little knife does is allow any 
cut that it makes to be reversed, causing the cut to reseal itself as the 
blade is drawn back. It also takes a turn to reseal a cut six inches. The 
knife can cut any material unless it is created by an Adept-level Matter 
Effect or higher. 
The vorpal letter opener cannot automatically cut through certain 
magic-resistant materials, such as Primium. Since it can’t injure living 
things, it’s not very useful as a weapon. A clever mage can still find all 
manner of uses for it, though. 
Weapon of the Psyche 
Three-Trait Artifact 
This small piece of jewelry, which looks like a miniature melee 
weapon worn around the neck or wrist, is actually a type of psychic 
image that forges a structure within the wearer’s psyche. This structure 
is always present in the wearer’s subconscious and is used to defend 
against psychic intrusion. In mindscapes and dreams, the character is 
immediately armed with a weapon like the charm, and may use Physical 
or Mental Traits to attack beings encountered in the dream or mental 
realm. The weapon itself gives three extra Traits and causes one lethal 
wound when it strikes successfully, no matter the type of weapon that 
the charm is shaped like. If the wearer of the charm becomes aware of 
a being that has forged a mental link with her, she may attack the 
linking mind by engaging in a Mental Challenge. With success, she 
inflicts one lethal wound on the invader and may choose to eject him. 
I 
Wild Certamen Card 
Three-Trait Artifact/ Periapt, holds five Quintessence 
The last time a mage was caught using one of these it was shaped as 
a simple playing card - 
the Jack of Spades, to be precise. This Wonder 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the match. The certamen referee must make an Awareness test as a 
Mental Challenge if either of the Wonder’s abilities are used during the 
match; the referee only gets one chance to see this, as the Wonder is very 
subtle. 
Ebony Horse 
Four-Trait Artifact 
A life-size horse statue made of ebony, with a single ivory knob in 
place within the present realm (Umbra, Horizon Realm, etc) that she’s 
been to previously and knows fairly well. The statue turns into a horse 
that gallops off at an incredible pace. Ten minutes later, the horse and 
rider appear near the destination, the horse gallops up to the destination 
and turns back into a statue. The horse is unaffected by physical harm, 
and travels through obstacles by moving through them with rider 
through the use of co-location. These horses are rarely seen these days 
because their effect is very Paradoxical, but are useful as quick means of 
transportation in some Horizon Realms and even in the Umbra. Note 
that the horse does not actually become a real, living horse; rather, it 
animates through the use of Matter and phases (with rider) through 
solid objects as it gallops. 
Kali’s Tongue 
Four-Trait Artifact 
A punch dagger with a wave-shaped blade, the metal of the blade 
is usually stained red or green. The dagger, when successfully used in an 
attack, activates an Adept-level Life Effect to harm the victim severely. 
The blade never actually pierces the flesh of the victim, though. The 
attack inflicts two lethal wounds to the victim, but on examination 
* 
, 
Lightning Gun 
Four-Trait Artifact/ Periapt, holds five Quintessence 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


This Wonder, commonly shaped like a '50s-style plastic toy laser 
gun, is not a toy at all. It is, in fact, a very dangerous weapon. The gun 
emits a low-powered laser beam at its intended target. This beam ionizes 
the air between the shooter and the target, which creates a perfect 
pathway for the arc of electricity that is released by a very powerful 
capacitor - 
at least, this is the mundane explanation for what would 
usually be a very Paradoxical effect. The shooter uses a standard energy 
weapons test to hit his intended target, and ifhe hits, the shot scores two 
levels of aggravated damage. Since this weapon inflicts aggravated 
wounds, each shot uses one charge of Quintessence. 
Questor's Map 
Four-Trait Artifact 
These maps - 
also known as pathway guides, hyperdimensional 
pathway maps, and treasure maps - 
have appeared in a multitude of 
different forms from ratty vellum maps to hand-held GPS maps, but 
their use is always the same. The map shows a rough picture of the 
Gauntlet and Near Umbra in a one square mile area around the mage. 
The rating of the Gauntlet is seen as a topographical map with high 
elevations representing high Gauntlet ratings and low areas showing 
low Gauntlet ratings. Also shown are Shallowings and Airts, though 
the destinations of these Airts is rarely clear and the Shallowings tend 
to appear as rather indistinct markings on the map, marking general 
areas where Shallowing may lie but no details on how to activate the 
Shallowing. 
Extra-Dimensional Backpack 
Five-Trait Artifact 
The extra-dimensional backpack is created to fold and spatially 
mutate any thing placed within it so that it fits. As long as the object 
can fit into the opening of the backpack, the backpack will be able to 
hold the object. The weight of the object does not change, though. So, 
even though you can place an I-beam into the backpack, you are not 
going to be able to move once you do. It takes time to place anything 
into the backpack, usually a turn or more depending on the size. Living 
things cannot enter the backpack. 
Folk Ward 
One-Trait Charm 
These wards tend to take many different shapes and forms depending 
on the paradigm and culture of their mage creators. These small wards 
and charms act as single-use anti-magic talismans, designed to counter 
I . 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


specific Spheres or types of magic. To be used, the Charm must be in 
plain sight and easily identifiable. Whenever an Effect is done with the 
holder of the Charm named as the target of the Effect, and the Effect 
is of the category of the Charm, then the Effect is resolved at a one-Trait 
penalty (as if a Trait of Quintessence had been used for anti-magic). At 
this point the Charm becomes inert and cannot be reimbued for the 
same purpose. These Charms must have types of spells specified as what 
they guard against. For instance curses, lightning and teleportation are 
acceptable; damage-causing effects are not, as the category is too broad. 
These Charms may only be used one per effect. Even if you have a Folk 
Ward against fire spells and curses, and somebody creates an Effect 
cursing you with flaming urine, only one of the talismans will activate, 
although you may choose which. Common Folk Wards are things like 
four-leaf clovers that ward against bad luck, blue ribbons around the 
neck that ward against the evil eye (curses), and handfuls of posies to 
ward off disease. 
Ninja Smoke Bomb 
Two-Trait Charm 
These small clay balls, when broken open, cause the surrounding 
area to become filled with choking, irritating, obscuring smoke. Only 
the activator of the talisman is unaffected by the smoke. The smoke 
cloud created by the Charm is six paces wide and 10 feet tall. Anyone 
in the cloud (except the activator) loses all ties in Physical Challenges 
because of blindness. The choking effect of the cloud causes anyone 
within to suffer a two-Trait penalty on all challenges. The smoke cloud 
lasts for two rounds or until a strong wind causes the smoke to dissipate. 
Note that use of appropriate Abilities (Blind-Fighting) and effects 
(Correspondence or other sensory Effects) can negate the penalties. 
Tornado in a Can 
Three-Trait Charm 
This is a one-use Charm that is thrown at a target using normal 
physical ranged attack rules. If the attack is successful, a spinning 
kinetic force erupts from the can and holds the victim in place for three 
turns. The spinning vortex makes the victim unable to initiate any 
challenges and impervious to personal-scale physical attack but not to 
damage. So, if the victim is shot at, he will be unaffected by the attack, 
but if a building falls on him, he will most likely die. (Treat this as an 
Intermediate Forces Effect that attempts to negate kinetic energy and 
hold the victim in place.) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Spirit Rattle 
Two-Trait Fetish 
These rattles - 
sometimes made of dried gourds, or from the tails 
of rattlesnakes - 
are made to ward off spirits by making the area 
uncomfortable for them. When the spirit rattle is rattled purposefully, 
all spiritual beings in the area suffer a two-Trait penalty for all actions. 
This penalty applies not only to spirits, but also to any being that is in 
the Umbra, because the rattle sounds like thunder in the Umbra when 
it is shaken. For as long as the rattle is shaken, the penalty persists; the 
shaker of the rattle may do nothing except shake the rattle to get the 
effect of the Wonder. A spirit that is materialized suffers the same 
penalty as if it were in the Umbra. 
Dragon Pearl 
Five-Trait Talisman 
These perfectly formed pearls, each about the size of a large marble, 
could easily fetch $1000 a piece, but mages who know their true nature 
would never sell them for such a paltry sum. The pearls are always 
slightly warm to the touch and in near darkness they seem to reflect 
back more light than what strikes them. If a person swallows one of 
these pearls he must first win a static Physical Challenge against eight 
traits or take two aggravated wounds as the pearl releases its powerful 
magic with in the body. Over the next turn the character may do 
nothing as his body transforms into a 10-foot-long, serpentlike Eastern 
dragon. When the transformation is done, the mage receives six extra 
Physical Traits (Ferocious x 2, Enduringx 2, Lithe x 2), two extra Healthy 
health levels, his brawl attacks inflict lethal damage, and he can take 
six steps for movement instead of three. The transformation lasts for a 
single combat or one minute, whichever comes first. While in the 
dragon form you may still talk and do magical effects if you were able to 
do so before, but you may not use any tools or weapons as the dragon 
form does not have opposable thumbs. After the effect wears off any 
damage done to you is applied to your normal health levels - 
if you 
took six wounds while in the dragon form, when you transform back, 
the six wounds applied to your normal health levels. A dragon pearl 
typically works only once, releasing all of its stored power as it transforms 
the user. 
TRANSLATING 
We"m 
Not all Wonders from other Mage supplements translate easily into 
the live-action format. Due to the differences in pricing for live-action 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Wonders as compared to their tabletop cousins, some Wonders might be 
out of reach of live-action characters, while others might be a little 
cheaper. 
The recommended solution is to translate all Wonders according to 
the pricing guidelines for Laws of Ascension. Those guidelines are 
balanced for the live-action game, which has slightly different scales of 
power than the tabletop Mage. Figure the Trait value of a Wonder based 
upon its powers, and assign it a new value for live-action play. 
In some cases the Storyteller may wish to make an exception for a 
Wonder that has Effects particularly difficult for a live-action game or 
especially useless for agivenvenue; this can adjust the value up or down. 
The important part of the estimate is to recalculate from the live-action 
perspective rather than being wedded to the tabletop numbers, since 
live-action items may have different scope, smaller Effect and different 
numbers of effective Traits. A Wonder that grants a bonus Trait, for 
instance, is probably not as powerful in live-action play as a Wonder that 
grants a -1 difficulty in tabletop play, because the Traits can often 
spread beyond a 1-10 range while difficulties rarely reflect a spread 
beyond 2- 10. 
TKHNKRATIC 
ENHANCE~I-IENTS 
Because they’re placed inside the body and attached to a mage’s 
Pattern, Technocratic Enhancements don’t quite follow the same rules 
as other Wonders. See the Background on p. XX for information. The 
samples listed below only scratch the surface of potential Enhancements 
for your operatives. In general, an Enhancement’s value should be 
roughly similar to that of a Wonder (Artifact). The Enhancement has the 
advantage that it can’t be lost, but the disadvantage that it causes 
Paradox. 
Extrasensory Access Device 
One-Trait Enhancement 
Your field agent has some sort of extra device or sense - 
either an 
engineered organ or implanted bionic piece - 
that permits a range of 
sensation beyond the human norms. In game terms, your character 
benefits from one Apprentice-level Sphere sensory Effect at all times. To 
your character, it’s as normal as seeing and hearing. 
Night Vision 
One-Trait Enhancement 
Biological modifications to include higher densities of the right 
rods and cones, or completely re-engineered bionic eyes, allow the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


operative to see in near darkness. Your character can see in anything but 
total darkness with no penalties. 
Skeletal Enhancement 
One-Trait Enhancement 
Internal bracings or specially engineered spiral bone structure 
grants a superstrong skeleton and better muscular attachment points. 
Your agent can mount heavy hardware such as energy weapons along 
these bracings. You also gain one extra Bruised health level. 
Claws 
Two-Trait Enhancement 
Claws - 
either bony or metallic - 
extend on command and allow 
you to rake your opponents for lethal damage. The claws grant you a 
one-Trait bonus in hand combat and in climbing. 
Computer Coprocessor 
Two-Trait Enhancement 
You have a computer chip tied into your brain - 
or a part of your 
brain is so finely wired that it functions just as well as a computer. You 
gain all the benefits of permanent mental enhancement: Incredible 
math skills, ability to record reams of raw text data, even the potential 
to process other information if (say) you have some cybernetic recording 
device and a means to tie it into the computer headware. With an 
output port or a dermal interface, you can output your computer's 
information to another system or upload new programs. 
Environmental Adaptability 
Three-Trait Enhancement 
Improved filters, gills, pressure compensators and similar 
redundancies enable your operative to function underwater, in intense 
heat or perhaps even in a vacuum. Choose one type of high-threat 
environment, such as high heat, radioactivity or space. Your character 
suffers neither damage nor Trait penalties in that environment, even 
without any protections. Note that fiery and freezing substances can 
still cause damage -just 
because you're engineered to work near the 
heart of a volcano doesn't mean you'll survive a dip in the lava. 
The sample rotes here run a wide gamut. Some are highly useful to 
politically or militarily active mages; others tie in specifically to 
everyday life. Many are conjunctional. Again, like the sample Wonders 
presented previously, these pieces provide examples, not concrete 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


guidelines for all situations. From these rotes can spring inspiration for 
other magical Effects and ideas. Just as important as the powers of the 
rotes is their intended use. Remember that mages can and do make 
magical Effects for things that some people might consider trivial, and 
not all spells are designed for battle, curses or defenses. 
Access This: Initiate Forces, Initiate Correspondence. This rote, 
primarily used by the Virtual Adepts, forges a link between two 
electronic devices, allowing one to control/access another within 
visual sight. The control that the casting mage has is limited by the 
mechanics of the device that he uses to access the other device. For 
instance, a mage using a Game Boy to access a computer may only be 
able access the monitor through his LCD and move the mouse around; 
by using a palmtop computer, he would be able to access the computer 
much more effectively. For one hourlscene, the mage may use the 
accessed device. If there is any type of security on the device being 
accessed, the mage must win a Mental Challenge using the Computer 
Ability against a number of Traits determined by a Narrator. Grades of 
Success: None. 
Activate Next Clone: Master Life, Adept Time, Master Mind, 
Adept Spirit, Adept Prime, Disciple Correspondence. This incredibly 
powerful Effect done through a conjunctional effort by multiple arms of 
the Conventions is reserved for only their most highly ranked members. 
A clone is created of the caster, then placed in a stasis chamber. A piece 
of cyberware is then implanted in the mage that monitors physical 
status and transfers his consciousness when he is at risk of being killed. 
When the monitor detects that the mage is at Incapacitated or worse, 
his consciousness is instantly downloaded into the clone that wakes up 
10 minutes later exactly as the mage was before, except with no damage. 
The shock of the transfer and the near-death experience has a profound 
effect on the mage, as he loses apermanent Trait of Willpower and gains 
a derangement. If the mage was at worse than Mortally Wounded when 
this occurred, then the toll is doubled (loss of two permanent Willpower 
and gaining two derangements). The stasis chamber is only able to keep 
the clone viable for one month. After one month, the Effect wears off 
and the mage simply dies as normal. If the mage is killed while his 
consciousness is outside of his body, the transfer fails and the mage dies. 
If there is another consciousness in the body when it dies, that 
consciousness is transferred to the new clone with all the penalties 
imposed from the transfer. If the mage's consciousness and another 
consciousness are in the body when it dies, the transfer takes place and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the transfer device tries to make as close an approximation as it can - 
the final result is the clone having both wills with in it fighting for 
control (winner of a Mental Challenge has control for a scenehour). 
Grades of Success: Increase the grade of duration of the stasis field. 
Akashic Cliff Notes: Apprentice Mind. This rote has been quietly 
passed from apprentice to apprentice over the years among the Akashic 
Brotherhood. Through meditation the apprentice is better able to 
concentrate and understand the koans and proverbs his sensei is trying 
to teach. In game terms, the mage receives a one-Trait bonus on any 
Enigmas challenges. Grades of Success: None. 
Ball of Abysmal Flame: Master Forces, Master Prime, Adept Time, 
Disciple Mutter. This is the most powerful destructive spell known to 
exist in the lone mage's repertoire. It has been used few times, and only 
in the direst of circumstances, as it is highly dangerous to perform and 
the results can be devastating. To cast this spell, the mage draws a 
pentagram that points south. During the first turn of casting, a little bit 
of Quintessence is drawn from everything in the surrounding area (an 
effect that can be detected with a Static Awureness Mental Challenge 
against 12 Traits). The second turn of casting transmutes this 
Quintessence into heat and fire that is bound within the confines of the 
pentagram. At this point it looks like a short column of roiling flames. 
During the third turn, the caster must hold the Effect in place long 
enough for him to get away from the blast area. The first parts of the spell 
are easy compared to the timing element, and this is the part that tends 
to break down (and this is when the actual casting test is made). The 
Effect requires three turns togather the necessaryenergy. Ondetonating, 
it inflicts four aggravated wounds to everything with half a mile of the 
pentagram. If the casting test fails, the effect goes off immediately, but 
the blast radius is only about 100 yards. In conjunction with 
Correspondence, the mage can selectively target areas, using grades of 
success to eliminate certain people or objects from the blast. This spell 
is, in many ways, the mage's version of a bomb, and Storytellers should 
treat it as such. It's not a cheap way to destabilize a game, but a powerful 
and dangerous tool for a story that demands a tremendous overhaul. 
Grades of Success: Increases the damage by one aggravated wound per 
grade. 
Battery Man: Adept Life, Initiate Forces. Created at first as a 
practical joke by a less-than-humorous Son of Ether, it changes the 
caster's body to act as a wet cell battery and able to store enough 
electricity to inflict a serious shock. The mage can store up to two 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


charges that each inflict one lethal wound; these charges must be 
discharged one at a time. The charges can be discharged against any 
person or metal object that is touching the ground and touching the 
caster. The caster may also power anything that can be powered with 
electricity, up to a car battery, for one minute per charge. The Effect 
lasts for one hour, and if there are any charges left after that hour, they 
all ground out through the caster causing the damage to him. Grades of 
Success: Each grade increases the number of charges by two. 
Bean: Apprentice Mind. A Virtual Adept who was a bit of Frank 
Herbert freak created this rote so that he could stay awake longer. The 
mage chews on a single coffee bean and chants the mantra: "It is 
through will alone I set my mind in motion, through the juice of the 
coffee bean the thoughts acquire speed, the hands acquire shakes, the 
shakes become a warning. It is through will alone I set my mind in 
motion." The Virtual Adept may now remain awake for a full 24 hours 
longer than normal without incurring any penalties. When the duration 
ends, he sleeps for twice as long as he forced himself to stay wakeful. 
Grades of Success: None. 
Be Cool: Initiate Mind. A Hollow One rote to make the caster more 
socially accepted wherever she is. When the Effect is done, it makes 
everybody who interacts with the mage feel like she belongs there and 
whatever she says is socially acceptable. For one scene, the mage 
receives a bonus Social Trait of Charming. Grades of Success: One grade 
increases the bonus Trait by one, to a maximum of three, or increases 
the duration by one grade. 
Bending Willow: Adept Correspondence. The Akashic Brother- 
hood has used this rote to make entire groups of thugs obliterate each 
other without the mage striking asingle one. Through the use of Do, the 
Brother bends space around himself to cause attacks that would have hit 
him to strike other attackers. The opponents he is affecting must be 
within arm's reach of him. For the one-turn duration of the Effect, a 
single attack that has hit the mage strikes a different opponent of the 
mage's choice. Only non-magical physical attacks directed against the 
caster may be redirected with this rote. Grades of Success: One grade 
increases the grade of duration (to a maximum of one scene/hour); one 
grade of success redirects an extra attack per turn. 
Call the Tempest: Disciple Entropy, Adept Forces, Disciple Spirit. 
This rote is attributed to the weather witches of the Verbena, and has 
rarely been seen to be used in any form by any other Tradition. They 
would seem to be the only ones who either understand nature enough 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


to use the rote, or the only ones mad enough to unleash this level of 
uncontrolled energy. Typically this Effect is done beside a seething 
cauldron with many unmentionable ingredients thrown into it, along 
with a lot of dancing and chanting. The culmination of the Effect 
releases a violent squall of wind, rain and lightning that is nominally 
under the mage’s control. After the Effect is finished, it takes one hour 
for the storm to gather - 
over that hour, the clouds become more and 
more threatening, the wind picks up, and rain starts to fall. After the 
storm has formed, the violent center lasts for an hour over the area 
where the Effect was done. Everything within a mile of the center of the 
storm is buffeted by high winds, hail and rain. Any character who is 
unprotected in this weather must win a Static Physical Challenge 
against eight Traits every 10 minutes or take one level of bashing 
damage from flying debris and hail. The caster is unaffected by his own 
storm. For the duration of the storm, the caster may focus the storm 
against a single target. He may only do this once and must win a magical 
attack test against the target. If the mage succeeds, he may hit the target 
with a wind attack that inflicts two bashing levels and knocks her down, 
or with a lightning strike that inflicts two aggravated levels of damage. 
Grades of Success: One grade of success for one extra attack by the storm 
per grade; these grades cannot be done in the same turn. 
Change the Flow of the Masses: Adept Entropy, Initiate Corre- 
spondence, Apprentice Time. Crowds of moving people actually emulate 
the flow of viscous fluids, simulating compression waves, tremors and 
flows. Because of this, the movement of the people is predictable and 
can be altered in minute ways. This rote does just that: it allows the 
prediction and control of large groups of people to either increase or 
decrease a person’s movement through the crowd. It can be used in 
traffic jams to always be in the lane that is moving. It can be used on a 
bank teller line, so that the line you choose moves fastest. It can be used 
to remain untrampled while people are panicked and running for the 
emergency exits. 
But just as it can be used to speed movement though crowds, it can 
also be used slow movement through the same crowded sidewalk, rush- 
hour traffic jam or bank teller line. The mage selects if he will speed or 
slow movement when he casts. If the mage chooses to increase speed, 
then the target may take one extra step through the crowd of people; 
choosing to slow decreases the target’s steps by one. Grades of Success: 
None. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


rote is used primarily by Verbena to protect them from hostile magic. 
It is cast by creating a circle and making an offering to the elements or 
some spirits to protect the caster and the circle. The mage then stays in 
the circle and chants, meditates or dances. As long as the caster stays 
with in the circle, which may be no more than three feet wide, the caster 
has a one-Trait bonus on all countermagic against any Effect directed 
against anything within the circle from anything outside the circle. The 
circle lasts for one hour or one scene, whichever comes first; when the 
mage leaves the circle; or when he makes any action other than 
concentrating on maintaining the circle. The mage can do nothing 
during the duration except maintain the spell; if he is disrupted, he must 
win a Static Mental Challenge against five Traits (plus one Trait per 
grade of success). Gr&s of Success: One grade increases the diameter 
of the circle by three feet, one grade increases the Trait bonus by one 
Trait, one grade increases the grade of duration. 
Cleansing Penance: Disciple Prime, Disciple Entropy, Disciple Life. 
This dangerous rote allows a Chorister to attempt to cleanse apenitent 
person of something that is tainting her soul. Usually this requires both 
the Chorister and the tainted subject to undergo a strenuous and painful 
ordeal. In the process, the Chorister takes on some of the taint from the 
subject and cleanses it from himself, making the suffering less upon the 
subject so that she does not kill herself in the process. Each hour during 
the process, the Chorister and the subject must win Static Physical 
Challenges against three times the subject’s Entropy Traits, or take 
three aggravated wounds from the cleansing of the Entropic energy that 
is flowing through them. The process can be stopped at any time, but 
Avatar will only allow this process to be done once per incarnation - 
any other attempts to cleanse the same person will fail automatically. 
Also, there are some souls that are too far gone to be affected by this rote. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


pacts are beyond the help of this rote; and Euthanatos who have five 
Entropic Resonance Traits cannot be helped. This rote can never 
reduce a mage to less than one Trait of Entropic Resonance. Grades of 
Success: None. 
Code: FIDA: Master Spirit, Disciple Cowespodnce, Disciple Life, 
Adept Mind. When the rest of the Conventions cannot deal with a 
particularly difficult Reality Deviant, they call in the Marines - 
namely the Void Engineer Marines. The Engineers set up a portable 
dimensional rift teleportation generator at a point in the near Umbra. 
The equipment generates a shell of reality around them that is friendly 
to the Technocratic paradigm. They focus on their intended target and 
open a dimensional rift, which sucks in the intended victim and 
transports the hapless target to the Engineers’ location where there are 
usually 10 to 20 well-armed and -armored Marines awaiting them. The 
Mind portion of the Effect keeps bystanders from noticing what happened 
or that the victim was even there. The rift only stays open long enough 
for the victim to be pulled through; there is not enough time for 
anybody to jump into the rift as well. The transportation to the prepared 
site is instantaneous, and the victim does take damage from the Avatar 
Storm if that is applicable. This rote is unfortunately very Paradoxical, 
and the Void Engineers have become loath to risk their resources on 
what they usually see as other people’s problems. Grades of Success: 
None. 
Command the Summoned Beast: Master Entropy, Initiate Spirit. 
This important rote gives a Hermetic mage a way to create binding 
agreements with summoned beings. Most summoned beings feel no 
need to keep their agreements with mortals, even with mortals who are 
magically adept. This rote makes sure the spirit will hold to a bargained 
agreement. The rote does not actually command the spirit to do 
anything - 
because it can say no - 
but once it makes an agreement 
to perform a task, the spirit is bound to carry out the task to its 
completion. Along the same lines, though, if the mage agrees to do 
something in exchange for service done by the spirit, the Effect compels 
the mage to keep up his part of the bargain. Grades of Success: None. 
Commune: Initiate Spirit, Initiate Time, Initiate Mind, Initiate 
Prime. There is nothing as beautiful as watching the sun rise over a hill, 
to see all the world come to life as the rays of the sun strike each blade 
of grass and each leaf on a tree. The world changes in that instant from 
night to day. Ecstatic mages hunger for these moments in order to 
commune with spirits ofnature. When they are able to find one of these 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


moments, they may extend the time when they remain in that moment 
of ecstasy for up to an hourlscene. During this time, they are a little 
distracted and suffer a two-Trait penalty on all actions for the duration 
of the Effect. They may also use this extended feeling as a focus, but once 
they do so, the Effect ends after the next Effect is done. Grades of 
Success: Increase in the grade of duration. 
Cracks in the Conscience: Apprentice Entropy, Initiate Mind. By 
watching the Dharma of a subject and sensing the subconscious mind, 
an initiate Euthanatos senses pangs of guilt and the deviation from a 
subject's past path, and know when the victim lies. For the one scene/ 
hour duration of the Effect, the mage engage the subject in a Social 
Challenge to judge if the last statement was a lie. Grades ofSuccess: One 
grade of success detects one derangement of the subject's choosing. 
Curse of Luck: Adept Entropy, Adept Mind. This rote, created ages 
ago, has remained pretty much the same over the centuries, altering 
slightly from culture to culture. It requires a small object with some 
connection to the potential victim and a statement to the effect of "May 
all that you do come to naught." The victim is then cursed to be 
unsuccessful in almost every task he attempts, even the simplest ones, 
and worse, his mental faculties may be dulled to the point that he does 
not realize what is happening to him. In game turns, for the one-turn 
duration of the spell, the victim loses on all ties in all challenges as fate 
works against him. The Mind component causes his mental faculties to 
dull, making any learned Abilities nearly useless. Grades of Success: 
Increase the grade of duration. 
Decrypt Thoughts: Disciple Mind, Disciple Entropy. A Virtual 
Adept named C.H. Modroot created this as a means to mess with people 
who always kept their thoughts encrypted. The rote probes the person's 
mind and uses complex algorithms to decipher a target's mind, using 
cues from the victim's own id, and giving the caster of the rote the 
keyword to gain access whenever desired. The caster engages the 
protected mage in a Mental Challenge. If the caster wins, he gets the 
keyword; if he loses, he doesn't. The target of the spell may attempt an 
Awareness Mental Challenge against the caster to see if he realizes what 
occurred. Ever since this rote started becoming common, many paranoid 
Virtual Adepts have created increasingly complex and secure rotes to 
protect their thoughts. Grades of Success: None. 
Discordant Sanctum: Initiate Correspondence, Initiate Mind. Used 
to halt intruders, the Discordant Sanctum causes the mage's home or 
Sanctum to become confusing and disorienting to invaders. The victim 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


sees the room as constantly shifting and chaotic, lights will flicker for 
him and concentration on anything becomes difficult. The victim 
suffers a one-Trait penalty on all actions. The spell lasts for as long as 
the victim remains in the affected room or building. Typically, the 
subject must lose a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of the casting 
mage's Mental Traits) at the time of the rote's casting. This makes the 
rote particularly formidable if the mage uses enhancements to gain 
temporary Mental Traits and then invokes this protection. Grade of 
Success: Each of grade of success increases the penalty by one Trait or 
affects one additional victim. 
Duct Tape and WD-40: Apprentice Matter, Apprentice Entropy. 
This rote allows a machine to function for just a little bit longer. The 
mage casts the spell after checking for weak points in a machine and 
applying copious amounts of duct tape and WD-40. With success, the 
machine gains one extra health level for one scenehour. Grades of 
Success: None. 
Encrypt Thoughts: Apprentice Mind, Apprentice Life, Initiate 
Prime. A very paranoid Virtual Adept who was always afraid somebody 
was trying to read his mind created this rote. The rote gives the 
protected mage a free retest on any attempts to read his mind. This 
includes magical lie detection and telepathy. The mage must select an 
encryption keyword at the casting of the spell (this keyword should be 
written on a card). He may tell people the keyword so that they may 
freely gain access. Any of these people may spread the keyword to 
anybody else; any who have the keyword get a free retest when trying 
to access the protected mage's mind. The Life and Mind magic affects 
both the physical brain and the mental projection, so that all forms of 
reading have to penetrate the encryption, while the Prime magic 
actually overlays the encryption on the Pattern level. The effect lasts 
one scene or one hour, whichever comes first. Grades of Success: 
Increase the grade of duration. 
Fall Upon Thy Knees: Adept Mind or Disciple Forces, Initiate 
Prime. This rote used by the Celestial Chorus reveals the awesome 
power of the One and forces a target to a kneeling position unable to 
move or act. The Mind version of this places the subject in a state of awe 
that makes him incapable of initiating any Physical Challenges as he 
falls upon his knees from the overwhelming emotion. The Forces 
version creates physical pressure upon the target and forces him to his 
knees, unable to initiate any Physical Challenges. The victim must win 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


a Static Physical Challenge against three times the mage’s Arete to 
stand. Grades of Success: None. 
Faux Curse: Initiate Mind. This insidious rote was created by the 
Verbena, but has seen variations in many different paradigms. The 
effect is done by verbally chanting a curse at a target where he can hear, 
usually accompanied with a brew or hand gesture of some sort and a 
Mental Challenge. If the Effect succeeds, the target is struck with a 
sense of foreboding that he is cursed. This uneasy feeling causes the 
victim to be one Trait down on all challenges due to his fear. After the 
one minute/conflict duration is complete, the victim may attempt to 
win a Static Mental Challenge against a number of Traits equal to the 
mage’s Arete times three. If the victim fails, he still believes himself to 
be cursed and still has the penalty because his mind has fooled itself into 
believing the curse to be true. The victim sees any small misfortune as 
a sign that the curse still hounds him. The victim may only shake the 
curse if he convinces the mage to “remove” it, or if he spends a 
Willpower Trait and wins the Static Mental Challenge. Grades of 
Success: None. 
Feng Shui: Disciple Correspondence, Disciple Prime. By taking one 
hour and rearranging the furniture, and thereby encouraging the flow 
of chi in the room to collect in one place, the mage may gather bits of 
excess energy and gain one Quintessence Trait. After this is done, it 
may not be done in the same building again for one month. Grades of 
Success: Each grade channels one extra Quintessence Trait. 
Find Reality Flaws: Apprentice Prime, Apprentice Enaopy . By 
examining the faults and damage to the Tapestry, the mage can better 
judge how to cast an Effect without causing as much damage to reality. 
The mage discovers the level of the Domino Effect and the direction of 
the ebb and flow of Paradox. As long as the mage is the next person to 
cast a coincidental Effect, he will feel no penalties from the Domino 
Effect when casting that single spell. No other mage can take advantage 
of this bonus, and while neither spell is penalized by the Domino Effect, 
they do add to the tally. The bonus from Find Reality Flaws will not 
work if the penalty from the Domino Effect has reached three Traits, 
because at that point all Effects are vulgar. Because this rote was created 
only to look at the state of reality, it is not penalized by the Domino 
Effect. Grades of Success: None. 
Got a Hunch: Initiate Correspondence, Initiate Spin’t, Initiate Time, 
Apprentice Mind. This rote has gone through many incarnations and 
names, but an Orphan who worked as a private investigator coined its 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


most recent one. The rote gives the mage the ability to look at multiple 
aspectsof an area where she is standing and correlate all that information 
to give her some intuitive ideas of what is going on. When cast, the 
mage may ask a Narrator one question of the area, such as “Has the 
Nephandus been through here?” The Narrator need only give one 
answer to one question (i.e., a two-part question will only get one part 
answered - 
Narrator’s choice regarding which part). Note that the 
answer does not have to be specific or detailed: “You see some Morley 
Cigarette butts,” while not directly an answer, would be a significant 
clue. Grades of Success: None. 
Gremlins: Disciple Spirit. This rote, first created by a Dreamspeaker 
who was angered by the Industrial Revolution, has seen many versions 
and incarnations over time. The rote awakens the spirit residing in a 
machine and imbues it with a malevolent personality. The machine 
becomes “temperamental,” usually refusing to work correctly, sometimes 
even making attacks against its owner. For one hourlscene (whichever 
comes first), any challenges made with the machine will be at a one- 
Trait penalty. For example, a computer with a gremlin loosed in it will 
cause all Computer challenges performed with it to be at a one-Trait 
penalty. If an object has bonus Traits that are reduced to zero, the object 
simply refuses to work for the duration. Grades ofsuccess: One grade of 
success increases the grade of duration. One grade of success increases 
the Trait penalty by one. Three grades of success gives the object some 
anthropomorphism and lets the object make physical attacks against 
anybody in contact with it every turn. The object has six PhysicalTraits 
and the type of damage should be appropriate for what the object may 
be able to physically do. For instance, a computer may shock a victim 
for lethal damage, an oven may shoot flames for aggravated damage, and 
so on. 
Guilty Whispers: Adept Mind, Initiate Entropy, Initiate Prime. 
This rote, used by some inquisitors of the Celestial Chorus, feeds energy 
to the conscience of a subject, summoning up a whispering voice in the 
back of the person’s mind that hounds her about her misdeeds and sins. 
No matter what the morals of the target may be, for the duration of the 
Effect, her whispering conscience has the moral beliefs of the mage. The 
affected character should roleplay having these voices in her head, and 
they are quite persistent, becoming louder when she is asked about one 
of her misdeeds. In game terms, for the one hourlscene duration, the 
character feels compelled to admit to any misdeed that she has committed 
when she are asked about it. The character may opt to spend a 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Willpower rather than spill the beans. Once the affected character has 
admitted to a misdeed that he is asked about, the voice calms down and 
returns to sleep, having been sated. Striking with Guilty Whispers 
generally involves a Mental Challenge between the caster and victim. 
Grades ofsuccess: None. 
Head of a Pin: Initiate Prime. How many angels can dance on the 
head of a pin? How many drops of water are there in a drop of water? 
According to most paradigms, there is only one angel on the pin, and 
there is only one drop of water, but the Chorus sees the infinity of reality 
and sees that the drop of water can be separated into an infinite number 
of drops of water, and that an infinite number of angels can dance on 
the impossibly small head of a pin. Because of this, the Chorus is able 
to concentrate Tass to hold multiple Traits of Quintessence. After this 
is done, though, it becomes impossible for any but a Chorister to access 
all the Quintessence within the Tass. A Chorister with some of this 
treated Tass can access all the Quintessence within it all at once. For 
instance, an Ecstatic has a mushroom that is a piece of Tass -he eats 
the mushroom and gets a Trait of Quintessence. A Chorister has some 
holy water with eight Traits of Quintessence - 
he anoints himself with 
the holy water and may choose to either access all eight Traits or only 
one at that instant. The Chorister needs to have a single source of Tass 
to start with; through prayer and ritual, he then concentrates other 
Traits of Quintessence (either from his Pattern or from other sources of 
Tass) into the initial source of Tass. He may place one extra Trait of 
Quintessence into the source of Tass; it will remain there until removed. 
Grades of Success: One grade of success allows for an extra Trait of 
Quintessence to be stored. 
Historic Editing: Master Entropy or Adept Time. This tool of the 
New World Order has allowed them to destroy or alter almost every 
historical event to their favor and to reflect their paradigm. The Effect 
is set into motion by historical studies and media coverage of "newly 
discovered facts." These facts then disseminate through the populace 
and alter the Consensus' perception of the events. Any person trying to 
find out atrue facts about an event in the past that has been changed by 
this Effect must win a Static Mental Challenge against three times the 
Arete of the mage who made the edit. A mage using Time magic to look 
back at the event must make the same Mental Challenge in order to see 
the true history. Grades of Success: None. 
Hungarian Phrase Book: Master Entropy. This amusing yet 
dangerous curse causes everything the victim says to sound like 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


nonsensical (sometimes silly) words. If cast properly, the victim can say 
nothing correctly - 
he should use the wrong nouns and verbs and be 
unable to be understood at all verbally. The victim does not realize he 
is speaking gibberish, and will likely become quite frustrated and 
confused. Anyone who wants to understand the victim must win a 
Static Mental Challenge against three times the caster's Arete Traits. 
This spell lasts for one hour or one scene, whichever comes first. Grades 
of Success: Increase the grade of duration. 
Imbue the Living Vessel: Disciple Prime, Disciple Life. The mage 
can store Quintessence in another person. This rote takes advantage of 
the fact that even the unAwakened have Patterns that can hold 
Quintessence, and temporarily makes a person into walking, talking 
Tass. This is commonly used by Verbena on their followers before 
rituals to have extra Quintessence on hand for magical works. It is 
commonly cast by using sex, drugs or ordeals. During the casting, the 
mage transfers some Quintessence from himself or from some Tass into 
the target. There is an added side-effect to this rote -the 
target feels 
a great rush of energy that tends to bring on a strong sense of euphoria. 
In the case of some types of Tass, it may bring on feelings of depression 
or intense focus. This side-effect fades within an hour, and the Tass 
takes on a Resonance appropriate to the target's emotional state when 
the Quintessence is drawn from her. The rote stores one Quintessence 
for one day. After a day, any unused Quintessence leaks out of the 
target's Pattern at the rate ofone per day. The caster of the rote can draw 
upon the Tass at any time while the Quintessence is still in the Pattern. 
Grades of Success: Increase the number of Quintessence stored by one 
per grade. 
Information Glut: Initiate Correspondence, Disciple Mind, Initiate 
Time. The mage gains the Mental Trait: Observunt and sees and hear 
things at longer distances than would normally be possible. The mage 
may also take in a glut of confusing information and sort through the 
data, getting what he wants without being confused by the overload or 
missing necessary details. The duration of the Effect is one scene or one 
hour, whichever comes first. Grades of Success: Increase the grade of 
duration per success. Two grades of success adds an extra observer for 
the duration. 
Instant Karma: Disciple Correspondence, Adept Entropy. This rote 
is a kind of curse employed recently by some Euthanatos, but has been 
used in different forms by the Celestial Chorus and the Verbena. It uses 
the interconnections of all things in the universe and the inexorable 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


cascade of events to cause a victim to feel immediate consequences for 
his actions. When cast, the Euthanatos must choose an action that the 
victim should not do and then choose a consequence of that action. 
The banned action must be something that the victim would have to 
willfully do as an immoral action and cannot be an action necessary for 
normal survival. For example, you cannot ban the victim from breathing, 
eating or pissing; but you could ban them from killing, stealing or even 
using foul language. Placing a ban against killing on a person also counts 
if that person accidentally kills a person in self-defense, because the 
desire causes the action and this brings about the karmic justice. The 
consequence of the action is chosen by the mage when the Effect is 
done, and may either cause a wound (up to aggravated), or give the 
victim a Negative Trait. After the Effect is cast, the victim becomes 
aware that his actions cause immediate consequence, and knows what 
those consequences will be. The Effect lasts for one day. For example: 
Bob the Euthanatos knows a man named Jim. Jim is at a crossroads in 
his destiny - 
on one path, he could become a great and benevolent 
leader; on the other he could become a thief who would prey on the 
weak and cause the further decay of the world. So Bob places a ban on 
Jim, causing Jim to suffer one lethal wound every time he steals 
something. Jim ignores his conscience and steals an old lady's purse, 
only to feel a stabbing pain in his hand. By this, Bob quietly guides Jim 
onto the preferred path. Casting this unusual curse on someone requires 
besting the subject in a Social Challenge. Grades of Success: Increase 
the duration by a grade of duration. 
Knock Out: Disciple Mind, Initiate Prime. Invented by a Son of 
Ether who hated killing, this rote effectively incapacitates a target 
without causing any serious harm. The caster must succeed in a magical 
attack against the intended target. If successful, the target is stunned 
and unable to initiate any challenges or move. This stun status is 
canceled if any aggressive damage-causing action is directed at the 
stunned character (this includes indirect sources of damage like hand 
grenades and burning buildings). The target is only stunned for one 
turn, so it is best that the mage move quickly after doing this. G r d s  of 
Success: Increase the grade of duration. 
Know the Leper's Mind: Initiate Mind, Disciple Spirit. A 
Dreamspeaker created this rote centuries ago when he tended a small 
colony of lepers. The rote summons a spirit of hatred and binds it to a 
single victim to follow and torment him. This spirit inspires hatred and 
disgust in every person who comes into contact with the victim. While 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


from the enchanted head, and it only speaks when alone with the 
caster. Grades of Success: Increase the grade of duration. 
Mind GREP: Disciple Mind. By attaching a computer to a victim's 
head with a SQUID helmet, a Virtual Adept may use GREP searches 
to find information from a victim's brain. For one minute/conflict, the 
mage may ask one question of the victim, which he must answer 
truthfully (if the mage wins a Mental Challenge). Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success allows the mage to ask one more question of the 
victim. 
Moment of Inspiration: Apprentice Time, Apprentice Spirit. Many 
initiates of the Cult of Ecstasy are artists of some type, and they come 
to realize that the Muses of old are still present, but they now speak to 
artists infrequently and tease with fleeting glimpses of inspiration. 
Apprentices use this rote to concentrate on these brief moments and 
hold onto them for as long as possible. With this they gain a one-Trait 
bonus on any challenge dealing with artistic ability or creativity (Crafts, 
Performance, Expression, etc.) Grades of Success: None. 
Mr. Fusion's Clean Burning Fuel Fabrication Formula: Disciple 
Matter. This formula created by the mad Mr. Fusion changes an amount 
of non-living inorganic matter into an equal volume of methane. While 
most people don't see much use for this rote, Mr. Fusion thought it was 
just keen and was planning on making loads of money when he started 
selling his kerosene-burning line of cars. Grades of Success: None. 
Murder of Crows: Disciple Life, Initiate Mind. This rote, first 
created by the Verbena, has been adopted in different forms by other 
Traditions and changed to match their paradigm and the animals 
available. The Effect summons a group of a specific type of animal that 
does the mage's bidding. It takes one full turn for the swarm to arrive. 
Since this is not a natural action it takes a bit of concentration from the 
user to keep them on track. Other actions may be performed, but 
attempting to summon another swarm of animals causes both swarms 
to dissipate and go back to what they were interrupted. The swarm has 
seven Physical Traits and four Healthy health levels; it inflicts lethal 
damage when it hits and may only attack one target at a time. The 
swarm remains around the caster for one scenehour (whichever comes 
first). If its four health levels are removed, the swarm dissipates, as 
instinct overcomes the magical compulsion. Grades ofsuccess: Increase 
the Physical Traits of the swarm by one, or increase the health levels of 
the swarm by one Healthy health level. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


My God Can Beat Up Your God: Disciple Spirit, Disciple Prime. 
In the past, the Choristers have crushed cults to dangerous Umbroods 
and demons with this rote. The rote summons a spirit, which usually 
appears as an angel, tkiat does battle with another spirit in the area that 
threatens the Chorister or is an enemy of the Chorister. The "angel" 
does retain free will, and will refuse to attack a spirit without good 
reason, and will never attack a non-spiritual creature (but it will attack 
a materialized spirit). The angel summoned with this particular Effect 
has eight Traits in Rage and Gnosis, 20 Power, and has the Charms Airt 
Sense and Flames ofPurification. During the battle, the mage may spend 
his Quintessence to increase the Power of the spirit at a one-to one rate. 
The mage may spend his own Ability Traits to give the angel retests, 
and the mage may take on damage for the spirit. Grades of Success: 
None. 
Mystic Tag: Initiate Spirit, Initiate Prime. This rote, created by a 
Hollow One, is used as a clandestine means of communications. A 
Hollow One writes a stylized tag (a picture or a nickname usually 
written with a Sharpee permanent marker, for those unfamiliar with 
tagging) on something out in the open that can be easily seen. As she 
is writing the tag, she also writes a small message on the webs of the 
structure she is tagging. Any person with Apprentice Spirit can 
immediately see the message contained in the tag. The message may be 
up to five words long, and is usually used to warn other Hollow Ones of 
dangers in an area or to point "newbies" toward gathering places. The 
message lasts as long as the tag remains visible on the structure. G r d s  
of Success: Increase the size of the hidden message by five words. 
Nice Boots, Wanna Fuck?: Disciple Life, Disciple Mind. This 
Hollow Ones rote starts by increasing a few hormones in the target's 
body to make him more "aroused." The Mind part of the rote gives the 
mage information on the right things to say to her target. As a 
consequence, the target becomes more open to carnal suggestions, and 
the mage receives two bonus Traits of Seductive against the person she 
targets with the Effect. (As a side note, just because your character is able 
to seduce another character does not mean you the player can get frisky 
with the player of that character. We really should not have to mention 
this, but we will, because inevitably there will be somebody who tries 
to use this rote as a kind of LARPer mating ritual. Remember, No 
Touching.) Grades of Success: None. 
Parma Magica: Disciple Prime. The famed Parma Magica, created 
by House Bonisagus of the Order of Hermes, is one of the catalysts of the 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


organized Traditions as they are today. It is cast on a small object - 
usually something with some importance to the caster, and many times 
is fashioned to look like a shield. The newly empowered object then acts 
as a store for Quintessence that is instantly accessible in any amount to 
be used for countermagic. For Sphere countermagic, it makes the 
shielded mage’s difficulty one less per Quintessence used. The Talisman 
can hold two Quintessence, and is unique to the caster and cannot be 
used by anybody else. The mage must still have the Quintessence to 
place in the object, of course. Grades of Success: One grade increases the 
held Quintessence by two. 
Place in the Dance: Apprentice Correspondence. The Dreamspeakers 
have a slightly different view of the Correspondence Sphere. They do not 
see it as a Sphere of space and distance, but as the Sphere of 
interconnectedness, in which all beings are part of the Great Dance and 
what they do affects everything else in the dance. This rote, taught to 
young students of this Sphere among the Dreamspeakers, gives the 
mage a vision of where a subject belongs in the Great Dance. In game 
terms, the player may ask one question about the subject’s geographic 
background - 
i.e., what culture is she from, where was she born/ 
created, what area does she live in, etc. The question may also be about 
connection the subject may have, such as is she married, is she a sibling, 
who she is owned by. Unwilling victims can resist with a Social 
Challenge. Grades of Success: Each grade gives an extra question. 
Plastic Body: Disciple Life, Adept Correspondence. The mage can 
contort and stretch his body in unbelievable ways. He may contract 
parts of his body as small as three inches or stretch an appendage up to 
a length of six feet (including his torso). Making a change of shape takes 
one turn of concentration to complete and is very uncomfortable, 
causing one level of bashing damage. The duration of the Effect is one 
round, and the mage’s body returns to its original shape immediately at 
the end of the duration, even if the mage does not fit his present 
confinements. The Storyteller should assign damage he sees fit for such 
an unfortunate occurrence. Grades of Success: Increase the grade of 
duration. 
Portal’s Herald: Initiate Correspondence, Apprentice Life; with 
Initiate Mind and Initiate Prime, or Disciple Spirit. When cast on a door, 
the Portal’s Herald immediately alerts the casting mage when a living 
being crosses through the threshold. The base duration of the rote is one 
night. Grades of Success: Increase the grade of duration. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


ill i 
I 
Praise Asphalta: Disciple Correspondence, Initiate Spirit. This odd 
Verbena rote asks Asphalta, the goddess of parking lots and parking 
spaces, for assistance in finding a place to park a vehicle. After paying 
homage to Asphalta, a parking space is found immediately, and it is 
always near the place the mage wanted to go in the first place -usually 
less than 10 steps, and it isn't even a handicapped spot. Grades of 
Success: None. 
Precipitate the Summoned Form: Adept Life, Disciple Spirit, 
Initiate Prime or Adept Mutter, Disciple Spirit, Initiate Prime. By 
preparing a body for a spirit, a Hermetic may force a summoned spirit 
into a physical form. Some spirits will be more than happy about this, 
while others may become quite violent. While the spirit is in the 
physical form, the mage holds no control over it except the threat of 
physical harm. Older and more powerful spirits are not likely to feel 
threatened by physical harm, as they know that the destruction of the 
form will not destroy them. The form is temporary, and is destroyed after 
one hour or scene, whichever comes first. The new form has six Physical 
Traits, and its Mental/ Social Traits are based on the spirit's Gnosis; the 
form also starts with the normal number of health levels. Grades of 
Success: Increase the grade of duration, or increase the Physical Traits 
of the form by two Traits, or give the form an extra Healthy health level. 
Pyro Manos: Initiate Forces. With this rote, taught to most new 
members of House Flambeau, the initiate lights a small chunk of 
sulphur and throws it at a target. A magical attack (typically a Physical 
Challenge) must be made to hit. If the mage succeeds in the challenge 
against the target, the chunk of sulphur explodes, causing one aggravated 
wound to the intended target. Grades of Success: None. 
Red Ones Go Faster: Initiate Forces. This odd little rote uses a 
little-known theory that says different wavelengths of light move faster 
than others in certain situations. Mages use this rote to make things 
move just a little bit faster than everything else by painting them red, 
as it is the lowest wavelengthofvisible of light, and therefore will reflect 
the slowest wavelength of red while absorbing the faster wavelengths. 
Hence the red object is given a little extra energy from all the other 
more energetic wavelengths being absorbed. Anything that the Sons of 
Ether use this rote on and paint completely red gains one extra step in 
movement when in combat, and vehicles this rote is used on will move 
10 percent faster than normal. Sadly, the Effect is only temporary as the 
paint quickly becomes saturated with energetic light, so the Effect only 
lasts for one hourlscene. Grades of Success: None. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Release the Red Death: Adept Life, Disciple Spirit. This deadly rote 
is cast very rarely by the Verbena because of its indifference toward 
innocent bystanders. The Effect summons a spirit of disease; the disease 
is different each time, but alwaysfatal. The spirit infects all living beings 
within a single building with a wasting disease. Each half-hour, the 
victims lose one Physical Trait. Once they are out of Physical Traits, 
they fall into a coma and suffer one level of lethal damage each half- 
hour. A Static Medicine Mental Challenge against three times the 
mage's Arete Traits is required to find a cure for the disease; magical 
Effects may also be used to find a cure. The disease usually manifests as 
something familiar, but in a highly resistant form. The disease is not 
communicable, because it is caused by the presence of the spirit, which 
is only present long enough to infect everybody in its target building. 
Grades of Success: None. 
Re-live Experience: Disciple Time, Apprentice Mind. The Cult of 
Ecstasy is always looking for new experiences and new sensations. A lot 
of times they simply stare off into space and remember an experience 
from the past. This rote allows a Cultist to initiate a full recall of an 
experience by doing something that emulates a sensation from the 
moment in time she wishes to recall. If the Effect succeeds, the Cultist 
can recall any detail from the experience vividly, and may make any 
appropriate Inoestigution, Alertness or other challenges to see if she can 
recognize something from the scene that her subconscious picked up 
before. The mage only has a minute to do this before the flash of 
experience will fade. Grades of Success: None. 
Reveal the Holy Path: Disciple Correspondence, Apprentice Prime. 
By making a prayer to the One and asking it to show the mage the path 
to the divine, the mage sees a glowing path before him that leads him 
to the closest source of Tass. Sometimes this leads the Chorister to 
creatures or places that are not exactly holy .... This Effect will not 
detect Quintessence within Avatars, but it will detect Nodes and Tass 
that a mage may be carrying. Typical range starts at sight. Grades of 
Success: Each grade of success extends the range by one Correspondence 
range block. 
Remove Divine Favor: Disciple Prime. This rote of the Celestial 
Chorus is one of their more devastating weapons in war. With it the 
mage can cause the extra Quintessence within a Pattern to be expelled. 
The effect causes one Trait of Quintessence to evaporate from a Pattern 
that contains more Quintessence than is normal, such as Tass or a mage 
with more Quintessence than his Avatar rating. The effect can only 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


remove Quintessence from one pattern. Typically this requires a Social 
Challenge between the attacker and target. Grades ofsuccess: Removes 
one extra Quintessence per grade of success. 
Ringing Strike: Disciple Matter. This technique is used by the 
Akashic Brotherhood to damage inanimate objects. It has been used by 
Doists to break swords with their bare hands, shatter stone columns with 
a single kick, or destroy an opponent’s helmet with a head butt. The rote 
allows the mage to shatter Matter Patterns; it is either done with a weapon 
or a Do strike. The mage must make a magical attack challenge against 
the inanimate object. If the object being worn or held by another 
character, then he must make the magical attack challenge against the 
holder. This Effect can damage any non-magical material, but cannot 
damage the Pattern of Wonders or of materials made with Muster-level 
Matter like Primium. Magically altered materials may be damaged as 
normal. If the magical attack test is successhl, the object instantly takes 
one health level of aggravated damage. If an object has no health levels, 
reduce any bonus Traits it gives, destroying the object when it is reduced 
to zero Traits. Grades of Success: Each grade of success causes an extra 
health level of damage to the object or removes one bonus Trait. 
Sanctify Sacred Relic: Initiate Prime, Apprentice Mutter. Initiate 
Choristers preparing foci for larger ceremonies use this rote. Through 
various cleansing and purifying rituals, they prepare the focus. The next 
spell cast using this focus is at one difficulty less. This Effect may not be 
combined with any other Effects that reduce the difficulty of creating 
magical Effects. Grades of Success: None. 
Sanctum’s Sense (also known as “Where are my Keys”): Initiate 
Correspondence; with Apprentice Mutter or Apprentice Life. This rote 
is cast in a place familiar to the mage, usually with his Sanctum or home. 
It allows the mage to locate any one thing he is looking for - 
his keys, 
his wallet, a handy gun or maybe a bug. The Life variation of this rote 
allows the caster to locate interlopers. Use the Correspondence ranges 
for location range. Grades of Success: Grades increase the range as for 
Correspondence Effects. 
See the Tainted Soul: Apprentice Prime, Apprentice Spirit, Ap- 
prentice Entropy. The Choristers learned this long ago from a mysterious 
race of half-men, half-angels who claimed to battle the evil of the 
world. With proper cleansing rituals, the mage may see stains on 
another’s soul that are sometimes left by exposure to Nephandi, some 
demons and even by Jhor. By winning an Awareness Social Challenge 
against a target, the mage can discover how many traits of Entropic 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Resonance the target holds. Though this is not always a sure sign of the 
subject being evil and a force of destruction, it does identify potential 
problems. Grades of Success: None. 
Semi-Auto Cad-Cam: Disciple Matter, Master Correspondence. The 
rote allows the mage to combine two guns into a single weapon that has 
Traits from both weapons. The combined weapon looks like a patchwork 
gun with parts of both, and looks like no other weapon in existence. 
During the combination, the mage must choose two attributes from one 
weapon and two attributes from the other; the Negative Traits of both 
weapons are combined. For instance, Eddie wants to take his shotgun and 
combine it with his pistol. He takes the bonus Traits from the shotgun 
(three); the concealability of the pistol (Pocket); the damage of the pistol 
(two lethal wounds); and lastly the Special Abilities of the shotgun (spray 
and mass trauma); the Negative Traits of this weapon are Loud x 2. What 
he gets is a really small, really loud shotgun with a pearl-handled pistol 
grip. The Effect lasts for one turn, and the weapon falls back into the two 
original guns. With sufficient duration, it might be possible to combine 
Semi-Auto Cad-Cam on multiple objects in a series. Grades of Success: 
Each grade of success increases the grade of duration. 
Sense the Fleeting Moment: Apprentice Time. Through the use of 
astrology, a Verbena may figure out the exact moment to act on 
something so that the action has a better chance of succeeding. In game 
terms, the mage may choose one non-magical Ability and on the next 
use of that Ability, receive a one-Trait bonus to that one challenge. 
Grades of Success: Increase the Trait bonus by one per grade of success. 
Sharing the Experience: Disciple Mind, Initiate Correspondence, 
Disciple Time. This rote allows a Cultist of Ecstasy to share experiences 
and messages in instantaneous flashes of thought that are usually seen 
by most around them as only a lingering meeting of the eyes. Where 
telepathy among other Traditions takes just as much time as talking 
does, this rote flashes meaningful experiences and visions between the 
Cultists that they can easily interpret into conversation. The two rnages 
in the conversation may ask for a one-minute time-stop to discuss 
whatever they wish to discuss privately. This minute should be timed 
by a Narrator and kept strictly down to a single minute to keep from 
interfering with the game flow too much. Nothing other than 
communication can be done over this fleeting connection, and this 
communication can only be understood by other Cultists. Other 
Traditions receiving the visions are not able to process them properly 
and simply become confused by them. Grades of Success: None. 
I 
r 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Solomon's Binding: Disciple Spirit, Disciple Correspondence. To 
start this Effect, the Hermetic mage must create a seal of Solomon upon 
the ground surrounded by a ring of salt. The ring of salt need not be 
completed until a spirit is summoned. Upon the summoning, the ring 
of salt is completed and the spirit is trapped within the circle. The spirit 
may try to force its way out by winning a Static Physical Challenge 
against three times the mage's Arete; if it is unable to win the initial 
Static Challenge, it cannot try to force its way out again for 24 hours. 
The spirit may not affect anything outside the circle; if anything were 
break into the circle, it would break the binding and the spirit would be 
free to leave any time thereafter. The spirit may be held in the binding 
for as long as the physical circle of salt exists around the seal, or until 
the spirit is able to force its way out. The spirit held by this binding is 
in no way under the mage's control. Grades of Success: None. 
Spirit Cloak: Initiate Mind, Initiate Spirit. This important rote is 
taught to many Dreamspeakers early in their lives to give them a small 
edge in the spirit world. The denizens that call it home often take an 
unhealthy interest in amage walking along the spirit paths, so to protect 
themselves, Dreamspeakers create this Effect to dim their presence to 
otherworldly eyes. In game terms, this Effect makes it more difficult for 
spirits to notice the mage, giving her a one-Trait bonus on any Stealth 
and Subterfuge tests for one hourlscene. Grades of Success: Increase the 
grade if duration, or increase the bonus by one Trait. 
Spoliatio Posterus ad Pensio Nam Nunc: Apprentice Correspon- 
dence, Apprentice Prime, Initiate Time. An apprentice Hermetic named 
Stephanie Russel created this rote when her Chantry was in a pinch and 
needed some quick Tass for a major Effect. It is done by measuring all 
the possible factors that affect the strength of a Node - 
the timing, ley 
lines and the flow of Prime energy. After calculating all of these 
variables, the mage discovers the ideal place and time to gather Tass at 
that Node, and gathers one extra Tass than usual. In game terms, the 
Node Background is increased by one for the session. This rote can only 
be performed once a month on a Node, and after it is performed, the 
Node produces one less Tass in the next month - 
i.e., the Node 
Background is reduced by one for the next month. Grades of Success: 
None. 
The Syndicate is in- 
terested in keeping everybody in the system, but sometimes a Deviant 
becomes such a problem that the Syndicate needs to remove her so she 
cannot further affect the Technocracy's delicate machinery of economics 
Surprise, You're Dead!: Master Entropy. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


and influence. To do this, the Syndicate employs this insidious rote. It 
starts with an obituary that declares the Deviant as dead. All the proper 
paperwork is processed, including coroner's report, burial schedules and 
account closings. The victim's worldly ties slowly begin to disappear as 
her accounts are closed and turned over to the state. Contacts and 
Sleeper associates also begin to believe the Deviant is dead, remembering 
to have witnessed her funeral, and may believe she is actually an 
imposter. In game terms, each month the victim loses the top level of 
each of her Influences, Allies, Contacts and Resources. The degradation 
continues until all of those Backgrounds go to nothing or the mage 
figures out a way to stop the Effect. Any new Backgrounds bought while 
the Effect is working are lost as well. Grades of Success: None - 
ain't 
it bad enough already? 
Taliesin's Song: Disciple Matter, Disciple Spirit, Initiate Prime. In 
the times when the world was young and the material and the spiritual 
were one, it is said that the wizard-bard Taliesin could sing new things 
into existence. Though the world has changed, parts of that original 
shaping song still remain. The mage begins this Effect by singing about 
the object he wants to create as he mimes shaping it with his hands. He 
needs no tools to craft the object, though an appropriate Crafts Ability 
may be necessary. The rote draws ephemera from the Umbra and 
solidifies it into a material object. The finished object may be made of 
any normal substance and may be any non-technological/mechanical 
object that the mage desires. The object must be no larger than the 
mage's closed fist. Objects created this way sometimes suffer from 
Unbelief, especially if conjured in front of Sleepers. Paradox from this 
rote tends to unravel the item in question. Objects that don't degrade 
thusly still have a basic duration of only 10 minutes/ conflict. Grades of 
Success: Eachgrade expands the maximum object size by one handspan, 
or one grade can extend the duration by a grade. 
Trick Shot: Apprentice Correspondence, Apprentice Forces, Ap- 
prentice Time, Apprentice Entropy. The Trick Shot rote gives the mage 
a better understanding of the forces, timing and distances involved in 
firing a gun. In game terms, it gives the mage a one-Trait bonus on the 
next firearms attack. Grades of Success: One grade allows the mage to 
ricochet the shot off one object with no penalty. One more allows the 
ricochet to hit a target that is behind full cover with no penalty. (The 
firer must still win an attack challenge.) 
Trippy Light Show: Adept Mind or Initiate Forces. This Hollow 
One rote requires that the area being affected have multiple, different 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


i 
" 
colored lights illuminating it. The Effect causes a single person to be 
confused and dazzled by the lights in an area, leaving him distracted. 
The victim of the Effect receives the Negative Mental Trait: Oblivious 
for the one scenehour duration. Grades of Success: One grade allows the 
Effect to be extended to one more victim, or one grade gives the victim 
one more Negative Trait up to a maximum of three. 
Undying Endurance: Disciple Life. The Cult of Ecstasy has used 
this rote for more than a few millennia. Usually the Effect is activated 
by enchanting a garlic bulb -or, 
more recently, a ginseng root - 
and 
then the enchanted item is eaten by the person who needs theundying 
Endurance. From that point, for the rest of the session, that character 
may expend any of his Physical Traits as if they are Stamina-related 
Traits. At the end of the session, the character is exhausted and unable 
to initiate any Physical Challenges for the rest of the day. Grades of 
Success: For one grade of success, the mage may add the option of letting 
the character take levels of lethal damage and replenish three Physical 
Traits; damage taken in this way does not adversely affect the character 
unless he takes damage from any other source, then all penalties of his 
current health status will take effect. A character reaching Mortally 
Wounded while under this Effect can still function unless he has taken 
damage from another source. Once the Effect ends, whatever damage 
he has taken hits him all at once, so it's entirely possible for a mage to 
kill himself doing this. 
Void Strike: Adept Spirit, Initiate Correspondence. This rote was 
created recently by a Dreamspeaker ecoterrorist. He first created this to 
push enemies into the Umbra where he was much more skilled and 
would have the upper hand. After the appearance of the Avatar Storm, 
he found a new use for it. He discovered that the same rote could be used 
on mages to force them into the Umbra and therefore into the Avatar 
Storm. In game terms, when the Effect is peformed, a rift opens in the 
Gauntlet to the Umbra. The attacker must win a magical attack 
challenge (Social, if it's done solely with Correspondence manipulation; 
Physical, if the attacker physically pushes) against the intended victim. 
If he wins, the victim is unceremoniously dumped into the near Umbra; 
if the victim is a mage, she takes the damage from the Avatar Storm. 
Grades ofsuccess: None. 
Ward the Inner Sanctum: Disciple Correspondence; Disciple Life, 
Prime, or Spirit. This rote is made to create specific bans on an area to limit 
access according to the caster's needs. The Life version creates a ban (per 
the ward effect of the Initiate Correspondence) against a specific person or 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


type of creature, or to allow only a specific person or creature to enter. For 
a violator to cross into the banned area, she must win a Static Physical 
Challenge against three times the caster's Arete Traits. The Spirit version 
acts the same as the Life version, except the invading spirit must win a 
Static Willpower Challenge against two times the caster's Traits. The 
Prim version acts as a standing anti-magic shell around the banned area; 
any spell that is cast at anything inside the banned area has its casting 
difficulty increased by the warding mage's Arete Traits. As with other 
wards and bans, the base duration is one hour or one scene, whichever 
comes first, and can protect an area of 15 paces in diameter, plus three 
paces per Arete Trait. Grades ofsuccess: Each grade of success doubles the 
area diameter or increase the grade of duration. 
Woad Warrior: Disciple Life, Initiate Mind. The warriors of the 
ancient Picts used to paint themselves in blue woad before battle, 
believing it would protect them. Roman soldiers were rarely prepared 
for the sight of the howling, blue-painted boogeymen. The Verbena 
recently rediscovered the rote used by the druids of the time to protect 
their warriors from the spears and swords of Roman soldiers. The 
Verbena creates a paste from a mix of herbs and clay and paints it in 
curling knots and whorls on the person he wishes to enchant. If the 
Effect test is successful, the affected character receives no penalties from 
wounds and has one extra Healthy health level when he activates the 
woad patterns by spending a Willpower Trait. The activated woad 
sends the character into a berserker frenzy bent on destruction. While 
the woad is active, the affected character may initiate only Physical 
Challenges. Physical attacks that may be performed as Mental Challenges 
(such as Firearms) must bid Physical Traits. The Effect lasts for the rest 
of the session, or until the enchanted character spending a Willpower 
activates it. Once activated, the Effect lasts for one combat or one 
minute, whichever comes first. Grades of Success: One grade gives the 
character one extra Healthy health level per grade, or one grade of 
success gives the effected character three extra Physical Traits. 
Work or Else: Disciple Spirit, Disciple Matter. Supposedly a Son of 
Ether got the idea for this Effect from a Hermetic scholar who was 
researching old magics of the Babylonians. The mage makes a vague 
threat toward one of his technological foci to make it work more 
effectively. The next Effect cast with that focus has its casting difficulty 
reduced by one Trait. Foci under this Effect may be used together, but 
no more than a one-Trait bonus may be gained. Similar rotes, which 
reduce the difficulty of magical effects, cannot be stacked with this rote. 
Grades of Success: None. 
' 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Rules help a game to flow smoothly - 
at least, ideally. All too 
often, however, rules also become the focus of endless debate and 
argument. For a live-action game, that’s a problem; the game must run 
quickly and seamlessly, so that a dozen players don’t wind up standing 
around completely bored for an hour while the Storyteller and Narrators 
have it out with a couple of recalcitrant players. 
To that end, all of the rules in Laws of Ascension are designed to 
be as streamlined and simple as possible. Inevitably, issues will crop up, 
regardless of the attention paid to detail. Therefore, the updates here 
ultimately should only be used as a way to try to help a game, not simply 
to add more complexity. 
Right after “Have fun,” and just after the rules of safe play, the next 
most important rule is: 
The Storyteller is always right. 
llr- 
-- 
Some players make a habit of arguing the rules in hopes of garnering 
special privileges or pulling out weird benefits for their characters. 
These players often consider rules a challenge in engineering, a way to 
work “the system” in order to maximize the benefits for themselves. 
They also tend to see the game as an antagonistic affair, with their 
characters pitted against all of the other characters and up against 
anything the Storyteller can throw at them. 
The previous approach is fundamentally flawed. Live-action games, 
by their nature, often have large player bases. For everyone to have fun, 
* 
‘1 
: 
- 
I 
b;-.-. 
>ST 
everyone must have a chance to participate. It’s not about centering on 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


one person as the protagonist to everyone else’s expense. It’s not about 
“beating the system” to force a Storyteller to comply with some absurd 
notion supported by a convoluted interpretation of the rules. It’s about 
having a good time in a social setting with a shared story. 
The result of this is: No amount of rules-lawyering or arguing can 
save you from the Storyteller. It doesn’t matter that page XX of some 
random sourcebook says “You can blow up another character’s head 
with this Effect without making a test.” If the Storyteller says it doesn’t 
fly, it doesn’t happen. This may be for any number of reasons. It’s a 
mistake to assume that the Storyteller does this just to screw with a 
character. Storytellers also juggle huge games; it’s possible that something 
isn’t working as expected due to some unknown background condition 
that the Storyteller’s aware of but isn’t sharing. Perhaps the Storyteller 
has a character with certain exceptions to the rules. If the Storyteller 
makes a call, it’s done. 
This means that the player’s responsibility is to accept a Storyteller 
or Narrator’s ruling with good grace and allow the game to move on. 
Stopping the game to argue an obscure point of rules over what is 
ultimately an imaginary character is not only missing the point, it’s 
selfish. It’s demanding that the game come to a screeching halt so that 
your character can have some perceived challenge to the Natural Order 
as represented by the Storyteller. The worst is taking advantage of a 
player who doesn’t know the rules well in order to destroy that player’s 
enjoyment of the game. Such antisocial behavior has no place in a 
community-driven social activity. Characters can and will come to 
blows, but that doesn’t mean that it’s OK to have a character whose sole 
purpose is to exploit a rules loophole in order to blow up less rules- 
proficient players’ characters. Know when to step aside so that everybody 
may participate. 
All of this, of course, must still bow to the most important rule: 
Have fun. Sometimes Storytellers do make mistakes; they’re only 
human. Pointing out that something is potentially a mistake is no 
crime. Once the Storyteller says“No, this is deliberate,” it’s time to drop 
the issue and proceed with the game. Similarly, the Storyteller’s task is 
to provide a fun and compelling environment for many characters to 
interact, not just to throw antagonists at the players’ characters. A 
Storyteller isn’t there to show off how he can make powerful critters 
that can crush any player, or solve any plot problem with his pet 
Narrator character. Once the Storyteller’s rulings push the game out of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


the players’ hands and turn them into passive observers, they’re watch- 
ing a (probably tragic) play, not participating in a game. 
Once again, to quote a prodigious writer of game material, “Rules 
are nothing. Story is everything. Obey your Storyteller.” 
Live-action games aren’t contests or fights. They’re social activities 
for everyone’s enjoyment. 
With all that out of the way, here are some more ideas for speeding 
your game along. 
Ne INSTANT KILLS ($PTICBNAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you’re willing to suspend a little disbelief in order 
to prohibit some charactersfrom exploitingsuper-powerful attackcombinations . 
It’s never very fun to have an unbeatable antagonist, which is what 
happens when someone’s rote performs instant-kill effects. Some rotes 
can be powered-up with grades of success, potentially to the level of 
whacking a character instantly. 
When in doubt, assume that it’s not possible to instantly kill a 
healthy character with a single strike (whether from a spell or weapon 
or whatever). No Effect may kill a character who isn’t already at the 
Mortally Wounded health level (or equivalent, for non-humans). 
Thus, if you hit a perfectly healthy (or even Bruised, Wounded or 
Incapacitated) character with an Effect that somehow inflicts 10 levels 
of damage, all this does is bring the character to the Mortally Wounded 
health level. This may not make sense in some cases; if you drop 
someone into a volcano, hit a character with a Quintessence-charged 
Buick or otherwise perform a spectacular damaging feat, you’d expect 
the victim to vaporize instantly. This rule simply keeps some players 
from charging around with super-spells ready to vaporize anyone in 
their way. It also means that a character must deliberately take an 
action to kill a downed opponent - 
something the Storyteller should 
play up for the full realization of the literally murderous act about to be 
committed. 
THE 
I-hw-Dw RULE 
( @ ~ C B N A L  
RULE) 
This rule only works if your combat-heavy chronicle has people dropping 
like flies, and needs to insure that everyone gains a little breathing room and 
at least a chance to retaliate in battle. 
Occasionally, even with the No Instant Killsrule (above), wandering 
hit squads will jump characters and make short work of them in a single 
turn. Actually, it’s pretty common. T o  mitigate this, you might make 
combat a more protracted and risky affair by making it harder to kill 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


people with large attacks. Under this system, no attack, regardless of 
grades of success or magnitude, can inflict more than three health 
levels. Thus, several turns are necessary to pull apart avictimcharacter, 
unless the attackers come up with a complex plan (and somehow 
manage to avoid using a mob challenge, which should happen 
automatically if they gang up, so that each can do damage separately). 
This rule only works if you feel the need for victims to have a last-ditch 
bit of justice so that no fight is a “sure thing.” 
When the brute squad rolls up on a hapless foe and has a cunning 
plan in mind, sometimes the victim pretty much folds up and dies at 
once without a chance to do anything. This isn’t very sporting, and if 
there’s absolutely no risk to the attackers, it’s very one-sided- and also 
tends to generate more such brute squads, as people gang up to form 
cabals specifically designed to take out their enemies without ever 
having to risk a counter-attack. 
With this rule, a character who’s about to die - 
that is, just suffered 
an attack that would Incapacitate the individual or worse- may spend 
one Willpower Trait and immediately perform one action at full, normal 
Attribute Trait values. Thus, even if the brute squad busts out on a 
hapless soul and pounds the victim into the ground, removing all Traits 
and kicking the sod into the Dead health level, the victim can spend 
that last ounce of Willpower to make a single action as if none of those 
Attribute Traits were lost. (The character must still apply penalties for 
being Bruised and Wounded, unless another Willpower Trait is spent 
or other magic supersedes this. Incapacitation and worse don’t apply to 
this action.) The victim isn’t guaranteed a win and doesn’t get back any 
lost Quintessence, Willpower or Abilities, but at least has one chance 
to make the attackers hurt. 
Immediately after Final Retribution is done, the character becomes 
comatose or expires, at the discretion of the attackers. (You can’t use 
this rule to get in a final shot and deliberately avoid capture by killing 
yourself.) 
You may only use Final Retribution once in any fight. Seesawing 
back and forth around the Incapacitated health level with healing 
magic doesn’t mean that you can do this many times. 
FINAL 
RTRIBUT‘ICBN 
(G~PTICBNAL RULE) 
C ~ I B A T  
~ ~ B I L I T Y  
(~PTICBNAL 
RULE) 
This rule only works if you want to represent the benefits of flexibility in 
combat response situations. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


As per Laws of Ascension, p. 193, a typical character can move up 
to three normal-sized paces in a single action. 
Characters with enhanced speed can take multiple movement 
actions: A mage with two actions can thus move six paces. 
Characters with special Devices or Effects might be able to fly or 
move with incredible speed. Typically, this allows the character to 
disengage by Fair Escape if the opponent has no plausible way of 
stopping the target. For instance, a character with a jet pack fighting a 
group of club-wielding thugs can, as an action, declare Fair Escape by 
flying up and away. If one of the thugs pulls out a gun, though, the 
combat must continue until the flying character manages to escape or 
is shot down. 
A character who has higher ground, partial cover or enhanced 
mobility - 
such as the aforementioned jet-pack wearing trooper, or 
someone fighting from the top of stairs with a sword, or from behind a 
car door - 
gains a one-Trait bonus due to beneficial circumstances. 
Mob challenges are some of the worst nightmares for Storytellers; 
they’re slow and some people don’t quite “get it,” which can make them 
easily exploited. Keep the following things in mind with a mob 
challenge, and you’ll be OK. 
1. No talking. Players who’re waiting for their turn tend to kibitz 
among themselves. This disrupts the game and slowly escalates the 
volume. If you catch people stepping out of character to chit-chat while 
waiting, give one warning; after that, pull the player from the scene and 
assign an appropriate penalty. (“Oh, you decided to chit-chat with your 
friends so I’d pull you from the scene and you’d ‘escape’? Gotcha. 
Mortally Wounded. Enjoy.”) 
2. No arguing. This goes hand-in-hand with “The Storyteller is 
always right.” Every player should have one appeal for any given ruling, 
just to point out if something might be a mistake. But nobody else butts 
in, and if the player insists on arguing, pull the player out of the scene. 
It’s not fair or fun for all of the other players to wait on one arguing 
antagonist’s rules cheese. 
3. No more than five people per physical mob against a normal 
opponent. A normal, human-size opponent can suffer a mob challenge 
physically from five, normal human-size enemies. Any more than that 
and they have to stand back and wait. You can’t fire through such a 
crowd without potentially hitting the people in the way, too. Thus, for 
R ’ ‘i 
.‘.-. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


physical mob challenges, limit it to five people. The Storyteller and 
Narrators decide who’s close enough and who waits. 
Ace - 
Paradox hangs; character holds the Paradox points 
until next backlash. 
Number Card - 
Regular Paradox backlash; the character 
simply suffers damage. 
Face Card - 
Lasting Paradox effect; the character garners 
a troublesome Flaw, of a type determined by the suit (see below). 
Clubs- Physical effect. The Paradox has a physical backlash: 
The character might suffer from static build-up, muscle spasms, 
ppearance change, bad body odor, changes to clothes, 
ppearance of strange items, changing certain items (like all 
milk products becoming rancid within 10 paces, all clocks 
running backward when touched) or other manifestations on 
physical, material processes. 
Diamonds - 
Mental effect. The Paradox has a mental 
backlash: The character has trouble translating short-term 
Hearts - Emotional effect. The Paradox has a social 
acklash: The character suffers radical mood changes, gives off 
emotional states to others, causes animals to behave strangely, 
colors all interactions with some emotional by-product (like all 
liquids taking on a color according to the character’s emotions), 
or otherwise has Social-related Attributes played out. 
Spades - 
Spiritual effect. The Paradox has some sort 
supernatural backlash: The character leaves a smoke trail in t 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


4. If multiple people assault someone using similar attack forms, 
they must mob. You can’t decide “not” to mob challenge an enemy just 
so that you and your friends can all potentially do three levels of damage 
in separate attacks and bypass some of the damage reducing optional 
rules previously listed. If you and your buddies gang up on an enemy 
with physical attacks, you must use the mob challenge rules, because you 
are a mob. 
~ I ~ I T E D  
mms ($PTI@NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if your game has an abundance of multiple mobs all 
challenging victims at once, and you want to stretch realism for playability. 
Sometimes a mob challenge gets way out of hand, as a physical mob 
wades into combat while a couple of mental and social attack power 
mobs hang back and target the same individual. Once again, such beat 
squads have a tendency to wreck just about anything. You may want this 
to be the case in your game, so that nobody feels invincible; on the other 
hand, you might have a mob challenge on your hands with 50 people 
all attacking one or two victims (this happens a lot at large convention 
games). 
For the sake of expedience, assume that no more than one mob of 
each attack type can assault a given victim. This means five physical 
attackers as one mob, five mental attackers as a second mob and five 
social attackers as a third mob. Anyone else must wait for an opening. 
Players naturally learn to dread the intervention of the Paradox 
Judge. This is in some ways as it should be: Mages should never just 
“shrug off Paradox. It’s a balancing force, and not always a fair one. 
Don’t mistake this, however, for making the Paradox Judge out to be a 
bad guy. While the Paradox Judge may not be buddy-buddy with all of 
the players, the players also shouldn’t have the impression that the 
Judge is someone to be hated or someone who’s out to screw them over. 
At the same time, Paradox itself is not always impartial or even- 
handed. Some players may feel they’ve gotten a raw deal with Paradox. 
This happens. They must learn to live with it. It’s one of the foibles of 
Mage. 
P m e x  PLAYING Dex 
If you don’t have the time or inclination to build a custom Paradox 
deck out with 3” x 5” cards, you can always use a regular deck of playing 
cards for your Paradox effects. It’s simple. Have a player draw a card 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


'b 
c 
whenever Paradox fires off. Reshuffle. Repeat ad infinitum. You might 
sometimes remove a card from the deck in order to keep people from 
suffering the same sorts of Paradoxes. If you don't want the headache of 
running Paradox spirits and realms, just remove the Jokers. 
In order to spread out your probabilities, you can use the following 
layout of the cards: 
If you really want to go all-out, you can customize your deck, so that 
each card indicates a specific Paradox problem. For instance, you might 
decide that you really want to emphasize Paradox Flaws; to do so, 
reverse the effects of face and numbered cards, thereby making backlash 
damage less common and Flaws more so. You could have a table that 
indicates a specific Paradox backlash for each card: the 10 of hearts 
might mean broadcasting melancholy while the nine of hearts indicates 
sudden bouts of rage. You'll want to change these from time to time just 
to keep players on their toes. 
&PUTATI@N SYSTEITIS 
While mages can and do have a complex system of Reputation, it's 
sometimes a bear to track - 
especially for games networked across 
multiple chronicles, where characters might gain or lose Reputation 
according to different standards. For this reason, Storytellers need to be 
clear on having specific standards for Reputation. You may want to 
indulge in the following rules to clarify your Reputation system. 
S L ~ W  
REPUTATI~N 
BUILD 
(@PTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you want to limit Reputation to long-term works 
ower the course of a potentially lengthy game. 
No character can gain more than one Reputation Trait per session. 
If the character gains Reputation from improving a Sphere to a higher 
level (going from a Disciple to an Adept, for instance), that's the only 
Reputation the character gains in that session. The character wouldn't 
gain any Reputation for noteworthy deeds or chantry positions until a 
later session. 
The order of precedence is Reputation for Sphere achievement, 
then positions, then notable deeds. 
There's no limit to how much Reputation a character can lose in 
agame, though. The journey up is tough; the fall is fast anduncontrolled. 
This rule only works if you're having problems with people gaining 
Reputation every game by specifically doing one big thing each game and then 
sitting around. 
STAGGERED 
REPUTATKBN BUILD 
( @ P T I ~ A L  RULE) 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Characters don’t gain a Reputation just for one great deed. The 
Storyteller should track a character’s noteworthy achievements - 
things that the Storyteller hears about after the game or witnesses in 
play. (If people don’t see it or hear about it, you won’t gain Reputation 
for it.) Each time a character does something noteworthy, this gains one 
point toward more Reputation. Each time the character does something 
dumb, this loses one such point. To gain a new Reputation Trait, the 
character must amass a number of partial points equal to the current 
number ofTraits. So, an Apprentice with only one AcceptedReputation 
Trait would gain a deed-based Trait for a single noteworthy deed, while 
a Master would have to perform at least five, because people expect 
more from characters who already have a strong Reputation and a lot 
of skill. 
REPUTATICBN 
ERCBSICBN 
(@FTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you’re running a long-term game where the 
characters gain Reputation and then just sit on it. 
Reputation is very much a “What have you done for me lately?” 
system. A character loses one deed-earned ReputationTrait every three 
game sessions. The character must constantly perform noteworthy 
deeds in order to keep a high Reputation. 
~ P U T A T I ~ N  
Ib,x~mums 
(@PTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you want to make Reputation a more closed-in, 
challenging system, instead of an open-ended system of legendary social 
standing. 
Some characters will do their best to gain Reputation at every turn, 
going to as many games as possible and being loud and flamboyant to 
draw notice. These characters may occasionally rocket up in Reputation 
to obscene heights - 
12, 15, even 20 or more Reputation Traits. To 
limit this, allow no character to gain more Reputation than double the 
character’s Rank, plus Destiny. Thus, an Apprentice (Rank 1) with 
Destiny x 4 could have a maximum of six Reputation Traits. People 
expect more from high-ranking characters or characters destined for 
great things, but will in return give them accolades when they achieve 
skillful things. 
NEGATIVE REPUTATICBN 
(@FTICBNAL RULE) 
This system only works if you need a way to socially punish characters 
who constantly flout the Traditions and don’t expect any sort of social 
consequences. 
i ; 
‘
I
 
’ *A‘ I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A character who repeatedly and demonstrably screws up in mage 
society not only risks the punishments of the Traditions, but could gain 
a nasty Reputation to boot. A character might potentially gain one 
negative Reputation Trait: Witless, Tactless, Brash, Obnoxious, Pushy 
and the like are all possibilities. A negative Reputation Trait can be 
assigned by a Storyteller or by any means that would be sufficient to strip 
Reputation Traits from a character. This Reputation Trait counts as a 
Negative Trait against the character and can be used as such, and the 
Politics Ability does allow opponents to know about it. 
A character may have as many negative Reputation Traits as his or 
her maximum Reputation total (there might be no maximum, if you 
don’t establish a top end). A character may have both positive and 
negative Reputation at the same time. 
CRCDSSWERS 
Crossover games, even moreso than mob challenges, present a host 
of nightmares for Storytellers. What power trumps what? Who has the 
upper hand? What the heck is the mood and theme of the game, 
anyway? Some stories, though, subsist on the collision of the very 
different natures of World of Darkness inhabitants. 
It’s impossible to present a totally comprehensive guide to all things 
crossover. There’s too much to track and it would require that every 
game developer become totally enmeshed in the ongoing work of every 
game line. Storytellers will have to judge many cases for themselves, but 
the guidelines here may help at least a little. 
P ~ W E R  
SQURCE 
SIEPARATICBN 
(@FTI~NAL RULE) 
This rule only works if you need to keep your players from being “buddy- 
buddy” between supernatural types and trying to share around their power 
sources. 
Vitae is not Gnosis is not Quintessence. While mages can perform 
phenomenal transmutative feats, it’s no simple matter to pull the mystic 
energy out of other supernatural creatures, and it’s even harder to turn 
it into something else. 
A supernatural creature’s power reserve up to its Willpower rating 
is considered inviolable, just like a mage’s Quintessence from the 
Avumr Background. Thus, a mage facing off against a vampire with 
three Willpower Traits cannot remove the power from the vampire’s 
last three Blood Traits, short of actually cutting the vampire open and 
suctioning the blood out. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


By the same token, a mage cannot simply remove magical energy 
fromother creatures’ power sources, or change power from one type into 
another. The mage must have specific Lore relating to the creature type 
and must build a rote that accounts for the shift. This requires at least 
Prime (for working with Quintessence) and usually two other Spheres 
as well (Matter and Life for vampires, Spin’t and Life for shapeshifters, and 
soonasdetailedinLaws of Ascension onpp. 266-271).The magemust 
also have extensive study with the power source. A mage doesn’t just 
pick up some vampire blood and suck the magical potential out of it; the 
mage must fundamentally understand how and why vitae holds magical 
energy. Even if a mage has the know-how to do this, the energy always 
carriesResonance (generally Entropic for vampires and ghosts, Dynamic 
for shapeshifters and changelings). Trying to turn Quintessence without 
the right Resonance into a different supernatural power type is doomed 
to failure: You cannot, for instance, take Gnosis, turn it into Dynamic 
Quintessence, and then turn it into vitae, because vitae has Entropic 
Resonance, not Dynamic. Similarly, if your mage wants to conjure 
vampire blood, it must have Entropic Resonance. 
A mage cannot simply inject Quintessence into a different 
supernatural creature’s Pattern. The difference between mage and 
critter is too great. Therefore, a mage cannot (for example) cause a 
vampire to never need blood by just giving the vampire transmuted 
Quintessence; the vampire would still require blood. Similarly, a mage 
cannot easily restore a werewolf s Gnosis. 
Just by way of keeping things from getting really out of hand, a 
Storyteller should probably never allow a mage to duplicate specific 
supernatural qualities of a power type. That is, a mage cannot simply 
conjure a sample of sixth-generation vampire blood and use it to make 
some seventh-generation vampires. 
VrnPIWS 
Since vampires often permeate many levels of human society and 
try to move invisibly through supernatural circles, they’re natural 
adversaries to mages. The book Blood Treachery even covers, in detail, 
some of the potential consequences of such a secret war. Both sides 
crave influence and hope to shape the future of human society. As a 
result, they’ll almost inevitably butt heads. 
Ideally, crossover interaction with vampires should come down 
mostly to Influence Backgrounds. The Technocracy doesn’t crack 
down on vampires as much as it could, simply because it has less 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


experience with vampire-hunting than with mage-hunting. Tradition 
mages trying to protect and promote specific social programs will often 
run afoul of the influence of conservative vampires who want to 
maintain the corrupt status quo. This can be a perfect game of dodging 
hidden bullets as each side slowly becomes aware of the other without 
resorting to physical combat. 
More commonly, though, games will feature a cast of multitudes, 
wherein mages confront the undead directly or vice versa. There are 
several important points to keep in mind: 
A mage below Archmaster level cannot remove the Curse of 
Caine. Turning a vampire back into a mortal for more than a minute 
requires fighting a primal curse with tens of thousands of years of 
historical inertia behind it. 
By the same token, no rotes exist of “Transmute vampire to lawn 
chair.’’ While this oft-discussed humorous sort of transmutation might 
be theoretically possible, remember that magic follows paradigm, and 
paradigm followsTradition teachings. The Order of Hermes specifically 
forbids dealing with vampires. Verbena, Akashic Brothers and 
Euthanatosconsider themunnatural, and avoid them. Other Traditions 
rarely encounter them. The upshot is that most Traditions don’t have 
the knowledge of vampires necessary to make effects specifically to 
affect them in such gross ways. (As another writer said, “Okay, you 
transmute the vampire into a gingerbread man. It’s now a six-foot-tall 
gingerbread man animated by the blood of Caine.”) 
In brute-force contests, vampires tend to win. They’re more 
resilient than mages, and their powers are slightly easier for them to 
learn. Conversely, mages with a lot of set-up time or an arcane 
connection can make unlife very difficult for the undead by using long- 
range attacks and things that vampires can’t easily counter, like spirits. 
Specific instances of stuff you might want to know can go like this. 
A vampire’s Obfuscate Discipline is mental. Thus, it’s resisted by 
a mage’s Mind Sphere Effect of Mind Shielding. If a mage has Mind 
Shielding, use a standard Mental Challenge between the two to see if the 
vampire’s unnoticed or not. Treat the mage’s level of the Mind Sphere 
as equivalent to levels of Auspex for purposes of modifying the challenge 
difficulty. Conversely, a vampire can use Auspex to try to notice a mage 
who’s invisible with Forces, Mind or Life, in each case contesting it just 
like it’s Obfuscate. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Mages will probably want to make their blood toxic or simply 
unpalatable to vampires. This is doable with a Life Effect to transmute 
personal Pattern (to make it valueless) and with Prime to make it a 
weapon (to make it toxic). Doing so will cause Pattern bleeding because 
it alters the nature of the mage’s own blood. 
A vampire’s Chimerstry works normally against mages, just like 
they’re mortals. A mage can use Mind to contest it just like a vampire 
with Auspex. 
Auspex (Telepathy) and Dominate must penetrate a Mind Shield as 
well to have an effect on a mage. As a general rule of thumb, a Mind 
Shield created with Mind Sphere magic at least equal to the Dominute 
level (Basic Mind versus Basic Dominate, for instance) offers a special 
retest against the Dominate. 
Since Presence is a Social Discipline and works on spiritual ties as 
well as emotions, you might want to have mages defend against it with 
Spirit instead of Mind (especially for powers like Summon that clearly 
work over long distances according to supernatural ties). This functions 
just like a Mind Shield: A special retest against the power in question. 
Necromancy, Spirit Munipuhtion and Spirit Sphere all resolve by 
contesting between the opposing controllers (vampire’s appropriate 
Attribute Traits versus mage’s appropriate Attribute Traits), with a 
difference in levels granting a one-Trait up bonus (one Trait for having 
Intermediate power against an opponent’s Basic, for example). 
Sunlight Corresponded from other parts of the world causes full 
damage to vampires. Sunlight created or transmuted must use Prime to 
be fully vibrant. 
The Animalism power Quell the Beast works on emotions like 
Presence, by contesting the vampire’s Beast against the victim’s instinct, 
so it’s shielded against with Spirit. 
The Spirit’s Touch power always picks up a mage’s Resonance as 
part of any image that includes the mage in any way, unless the mage 
specifically used an effect to remove the Resonance from an area. 
A mage can invoke countermagic against vampiric Thaumaturgy 
using the normal countermagic rules. You might require a mage to have 
at least a modicum of Vampire Lore to do this, since Thaumaturm isn’t 
quite the same as Hermetic magic any more. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


S HAPESHIFERS 
Some players assume that, since it’s possible for mages to be Kinfolk 
and some mages (like Dreamspeakers and Verbena) have a respect for 
the natural world, that mages and shapeshifters canget along beautifully. 
This is a horribly mistaken notion. As the werewolves and other 
changers see it, mages perform feats that are fundamentally wrong; they 
invoke powers they shouldn’t have, which is why Gaia punishes them 
(with Paradox). Worse still, mages and werewolves sometimes clash 
over places of natural power - 
the Garou caerns, which also sometimes 
serve as mage Nodes. These fights are no-holds-barred, as the Garou 
battle to protect their sacred areas. 
Remember the following when dealing with mage-shapeshifter 
interaction: 
Even moreso than with vampires, mages are flimsy compared to 
shapeshifters. As normal humans, mages will tend to die in two turns (or 
less! ) against even a single moderately experienced shifter. 
Mages don’t have the ability to artificially change a Pattern from 
a human into a werewolf, or vice versa. You can’t just reshape someone’s 
Life/ Spirit Pattern into a werewolf. Attempting to do so tends to draw 
down the wrath of Gaia and the related spirits. 
Speaking of spirits, mages don’t have any sort of Pact the way that 
Garou do. While spirits are inclined to at least talk to Garou and deal 
with them reasonably fairly, they have no compunctions about just 
killing or cheating mages out of hand. A mage cannot assume that just 
because he’s a Garou ally he will gain any special favors from the Garou 
spirits. Hand-in-hand with this, mages can’t necessarily guarantee that 
a given child will be a full-fledged Garou, although mages could barter 
with spirits for intercession in this matter and a Master of Spirit could 
probably compel a powerful spirit to “fudge things” (with severe 
consequences down the road for such arrogance, of course). 
Mages are immune to the Delirium, but this doesn’t mean that a 
mage is stupidly oblivious in the face of a nine-foot-tall furry killing 
machine. Most sensible mages - 
especially those who know nothing 
about shapeshifters - 
will run like madmen without needing the 
Delirium as incentive. 
Specific rules might go as follows: 
For powers that work with supernatural concealment, treat this 
much like the interaction of mages with vampiric Obfuscate or Auspex. 
Thus, a mage uses Mind to penetrate Blissful Ignorance. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Powers that create social effects should be resisted with Spirit 
magic: If a Garou uses Roll Over to force subservience, for instance, the 
mage uses a Spirit shield to protect against this and gain a retest 
(assuming the mage already had such a shield in place). 
Powers that change speeds (like Rage or Spirit of the Fray) are, of 
course, countered with Time magic. A mage can use Time to try to 
cancel any of these powers, but requires a test against the Garou. For 
instance, canceling Spirit ofthe Fray requires the mage to make an Arete 
challenge for a Time Effect, then make a challenge against the Garou 
(Mental versus Physical in this case). If the mage wins, the Spirit of the 
Fray is retroactively removed in a sort of “time crunch,” even though 
the Garou normally would’ve gone first. Otherwise, it’s a fine red mist 
of mage. 
No Garou will allow mages into a caern. Period. Even Kinfolk. 
This is “allowing a caern to be violated,” since mages are known caern- 
raiders. No amount of fast-talking will cover this. Spirits (who help 
track Garou Renown) will take note of this and punish Garou who 
violate this rule, if the other Garou don’t get to them first. 
Mages can’t perform shapeshifter rites. A mage can simulate a 
Garou rite with Spirit magic, but unless compelled or bartered with, 
spirits won’t respond to the rites as they would to a shapeshifter. 
WRAITHS 
Few mages want anything to do with the Shadowlands. The realms 
of the Dead are not a place for mortals to walk. Nonetheless, ghosts do 
haunt the living, and sometimes mages are the intermediaries for them. 
Dealing with wraiths is somewhat troublesome; dealing with the 
Underworld itself is exceedingly dangerous. Keep the following caveats 
in mind: 
A mage uses Spirit magic on wraiths, as with other spirits; most 
compulsions require a Social Challenge. A wraith can spend a Pathos 
Trait for one retest on a Spirit-backed binding or compulsion. 
A mage must combine Spirit with Mind for any Effect that would 
try to penetrate wraith concealment or trickery on the other side of the 
Shroud - 
for instance, to look into the Shadowlands and see a wraith 
hidden with Argos. If the wraith manifests across the Shroud, on the 
other hand, Spirit isn’t necessary except to smack the wraith directly. 
Thus, if a wraith tries to Skinride a mage, the mage can defend with Mind 
alone, but could only counterattack by adding Spirit. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


A mage’s Pattern Effects go through incorporeal wraiths just like 
normal things - 
mage-created fire is no different from normal fire to 
an incorporeal wraith, and equally ineffective. 
Most mages won’t understand the workings of the Shadow or 
Catharsis. Mages with a lot of study of wraiths might be able to tell the 
difference between the two states with Mind and Spirit magic. 
Magic working in the Underworld itself is very, very dangerous. 
Crossing into the Underworld (without a Shallowing or like) 
does cross the Avatar Storm. 
Once in the Underworld, the mage is at grave risk. A failed 
attempt to return, or being “killed” in the Underworld, means that the 
mage dies and becomes a wraith there. 
Any Effect done in the Underworld automatically has extra 
Entropic Resonance. 
The necrotic effects of the Underworld leach away magical wards 
and creations, causing their durations to unravel with one less grade of 
duration. Thus the mage must generate more grades of success to keep 
protections and sensory Effects and conjurations running. 
CHANGELINGS 
The so-called Fair Folk would seem to have a lot of natural 
interaction with Tradition mages - 
both sides champion creativity, 
the magical world and mysticism. Indeed, the Verbena and the Order 
of Hermes explicitly consider faeries and changelings a necessary 
component of their magical worldview. Still, relations between 
changelings and mages have often been rocky, for many reasons. At 
least both sides are usually not actively hostile. 
Changelings’ biggest defense, the Mists, works equally well against 
mages as against anyone else. This means that mages often don’t 
remember their interactions with changelings, chalk up changeling 
powers to coincidence and coincidental magic, and usually can’t 
remember anything they learn from the fae. Changelings, on the other 
hand, may find some mages too banal to deal with. 
As some rules of thumb, assume the following: 
Technocrats average Banality 9 or 10, because they’re typically 
Conditioned, procedurally oriented and not given to a whole lot of 
fanciful imagination. Some rare theoretical or abstract scientists might 
have a lower Banality because of their sense ofwonder and imagination 
about science, but even they don’t believe in faeries and are thus 
poisonous to changelings. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Tradition mages have wildly varying Banality ratings: stratified 
Traditions like the Order of Hermes and Technomantic Traditions like 
the Virtual Adepts tend to have Banality ratings of 7 or 8. Highly 
mystical and whimsical mages like Verbena and some immature Cultists 
of Ecstasy might go as low as 5 .  (A Cultist on a binge could temporarily 
dip to a 3 or 4.) 
Mages have no special capacity to see or interact with fae miens, 
although mages can be enchanted like anyone else. 
For a mage to figure out how to do “faerie magic” and see the 
Dreaming, the mage must have enoughLore to understand the workings 
of Glamour, changelings and the Dreaming, and Mind and Spirit magic. 
Unfortunately, since almost anything a mage learns disappears with the 
Mists, this means that very few mages will ever know enough to build 
such an Effect or remember how to do it later. 
A mage who scans through Mist-distorted memories with Mind 
may realize “Something has magically altered these memories,” but 
won’t necessarily understand what or how, or how to undo it, without 
appropriate Lore. 
A changeling may enact countermagic against a mage’s Effect just 
like trying to cancel an opposing Glamour, but gains a Banality Trait 
for doing so. 
Mages can and do generate Glamour like regular mortals when 
they’re inspired. Cultists of Ecstasy are the most likely to have friendly 
long-term relations with the fae, followed by the Verbena (who often 
see changelings as threatening) and then distantly by the Order of 
Hermes (who have a few members who specialize in faerie magic). 
“Making up rotes” doesn’t count as artistic inspiration, though. The 
mage must do something of phenomenal breakthrough creativity, like 
developing an entirely new metaphysical theory. 
In all cases of “appropriate Lore” for crossovers, the assumption is 4 
or 5 levels - 
enough that the mage has been immersed in that 
subculture and fully understands that creature type’s (un)life style and 
supernatural qualities. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Mages have, potentially, all the universe to explore. Unfortunately, 
the universe is a big place, which means that it can be a real headache for 
Storytellers! This is especially true for a game with a budget and limited 
available space. 
How does one go about setting a story in many exotic sets without 
having the means to fly people out “on location?” A little preparation 
and a lot of imagination, of course. As usual, the key is early prep work 
-get 
to the site before hand and turn it into the type of site you want 
or need. 
Many places make good settings for Mage games. Some can easily 
be dressed up into something phenomenal with just a little work. Of 
course, the Storyteller should be aware of the advantages and 
disadvantages of each site beforehand - 
hence, the ideas presented 
here. 
LKALPARKS 
Benefits: Usually have plenty of space, often free 
Drawbacks: Very public, rarely have actual rooms 
A local park often serves as one of the first meeting places for a 
brand-new game. It’s generally cheap and spacious enough that everyone 
can fit in without worry to cost or elbow room. Mages among the 
Dreamspeakers and Verbena find these settings right at home, but often 
local parks are small enough and centrally located enough that other 
mages will find them easy to visit, too; this makes it convenient for 
everyone in the game to plausibly show up. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The largest problem with a local park is its very public venue. The 
troupe must take extreme care to avoid drawing too much attention 
from the local populace. While a little curiosity isn't bad, especially if 
it brings new players, a game with players running around screaming 
and pantomiming combat or massive magical Effects may draw lots of 
negative attention. There's also no easy way to dress up the park or 
separate it into rooms. Without multiple rooms, there's a tendency for 
the players to stick together in large clumps, which makes running 
storylines much more difficult. It's easier to run a plot with a small group 
to manage instead of trying to cover things for dozens of people at once. 
Your best bet with a park is to have multiple Narrators on hand to 
split up the players into groups. Work out plotlines that cover different 
areas of the park, and fire them off simultaneously; this way, your players 
are forced to split into smaller groups. You don't have any way to easily 
represent exotic costuming or locations, so you'll have to rely on 
descriptions, but you can bring pictures or sketches to indicate special 
things. 
A few parks have an entertainment center that you can use. If you 
can make arrangements ahead of time, you can often have access to a 
room or two at a minimal cost. This provides you with an opportunity 
to dress up a single area as an office, complex, part of a larger building 
or whatever you need on the spot. 
Also, be careful of weather conditions. Character sheets and 
Paradox cards often don't survive well against sudden rain and wind. 
STATE CBR NATI~AL 
PARKS 
Benefits: Large; may have organized buildings for camping 
Drawbacks: Usually cost money; sometimes too public; require 
upkeep from the rangers 
For a large-scale game with a little money, a state or national park 
presents a special opportunity. Most troupes can't afford to host a game 
in an entire city block or apartment complex of their own. Renting out 
a campsite at a large park, though, provides just as much room. 
Some parks are purely natural preserves, with simple benches, trails 
and the occasional pavilion. These parks run much like small local 
parks, above. The advantage lies in the ability to split people up along 
specific landmarks or areas of the park, since the park often has multiple 
small clearings with wooden furnishings - 
leftovers of public works 
improvements. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Camping sites offer the unique opportunity to spend the night in a 
game, if you don't mind shelling out money for rentals and organizing 
schedules ahead of time. This opens the door to a fully immersive game. 
You can often find sites that rent small cabins for the weekend, and use 
them as different locations. This even lets you set the game easily in the 
Umbra or in different times, since you can put special signs up on 
specific cabins or use different cabin blocs to represent different sites. 
If you're not careful, though, you may find frequent interruptions a 
problem for your game. While state and national parks often have an 
abundance of back trails that allow for some privacy, there's also the 
constant chance of hikers or campers passing through. Your best bet is 
simply to suspend game play until they move on, or drop to soft 
roleplaying (no challenges) for the duration. 
Furthermore, state and national parks abide by multiple special 
laws. Most of these won't be a problem - 
as long as you're following the 
basic Mind's Eye Theatre rules, and you eschew weapons, drinking, 
etc. at your games. Often, you'll have to entice your players to pitch in 
for clean-up, especially if you brought along foodstuffs for picnicking. 
Rangers can fine you if they don't like your treatment of the site, and 
may deny you later access. 
nowing what the heck is going on. 
The simplest solution lies in handing out identifying badg 
o everyone in play. This way, everyone knows who's "safe" to ta 
o or challenge. Make sure that your badge is something small and 
Amusement Parks 
Benefits: Surreal; lots to do 
Drawbacks: Expensive; very public; distracting 
An unusual one-shot event might take place in an amusement 
park, such as Universal Studios. Generally, it's best to plan such an 
event as a special one - 
most games can't handle constant, monthly 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


play in such an environment. On the flip side, it's a great departure from 
the routine and a way to have everyone enjoy themselves in the game 
as well as out of play. 
An amusement park can make for a strange, Prisoner-esque episode 
to your chronicle. Technocrats may hide out in the bowels of the park, 
or perhaps they use it as a social experiment. Maybe some supernatural 
menace lurks in a back lot. Perhaps the sets themselves have a special 
Resonance, or a strange Node is hidden somewhere on the premises. 
Of course, an amusement park is also terribly public. Such venues 
often become very crowdedvery quickly. This can be a special challenge 
to the players, who want to "blend in" and look like normal people. 
Make sure that everyone in your game wears some sort of identifying 
badge. 
Also, be wary of distraction. Your players may wander off to 
experience the park itself. This is fine, but they should remain in 
character while they're going on the rides or watching the shows. Try 
to set up regular meeting times and places (every four hours or so is 
good) to make sure that you don't lose anybody, and so that you can run 
necessary follow-ups to long-range challenges and Effects. 
z@@S 
AND &ImAL 
PMSERVES 
Benefits: Spacious; change of pace 
Drawbacks: Public; limited venue; may be costly 
Zoos and animal preserves have some of the advantages and many 
of the disadvantages afforded to amusement and local parks. While 
they're usually fairly large and thus offer a wide-ranging area in which 
to play, they're also public. They can be costly for entry and they risk 
distracting players. 
That said, a zoo or animal preserve makes for a unique change of 
venue; few people consider using such a spot. It's a good showcase for 
Progenitor activities, or for urban Dreamspeakers andverbena. Outside 
of these boundaries, a zoo is pretty limited in its capabilities. Since you 
probably won't have spaces to dress up as your own, you'll have to rely 
on the setting itself, and that means you may have difficulty getting 
across anything more than the location of the zoo. 
LIBRARIES 
AND I b m - ~ - ~ s  
Benefits: Esoteric; often spacious; sometimes allow special groups 
Drawbacks: Require quiet; public; may be costly 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Studious mages make a habit of frequenting libraries and museums 
- 
so why shouldn’t the games? The logistics of handling such venues 
can be touchy, but also rewarding. 
With a few Narrator characters devoted to roles of your game world 
“museum staff,” you can provide an academic experience that Hermetics, 
Virtual Adepts and similar characters will love. It’s also a great way to 
show off some odd part of a storyline - 
say, by stationing a Narrator with 
special information as a character at a particular display that matches up 
with your current story arc. 
Museums and libraries have all the drawbacks of other public 
locations, of course. Identifying tags are a must. More troublingly is the 
problem of quiet. Most museums and libraries demand silence from 
their patrons, so running a scene can become a chore, especially if 
overexcited players start shouting and running. It’s best to lay out 
ground rules in advance: Anyone whose voice winds up carrying sits out 
of the rest of the scene. This will quickly pare down scenes to manageable 
levels if the players can’t control themselves. 
Unless your game takes place in a very small area, you should 
ays set aside a”smal1 Storyteller’s office. Have a Narrator or 
Note also that some museums have entry fees. If you schedule 
things right, you can often get in for free on “founder’s day,” but these 
days are also packed with visitors. 
Some libraries have back rooms that they’ll open or rent to clubs by 
special arrangement. Such rooms offer a good opportunity to have a 
small space away from everything else, if necessary, and a place where 
you can make a little noise. 
NIGHTCLUBS 
Benefits: Atmospheric; often spacious 
Drawbacks: Semi-public; may be costly 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


The nightclub is the venue de rigeur for the World of Darkness, and 
it seems that every game stops by one at some point or another. While 
it's not the perfect venue site, it has several advantages. 
First, despite being a fairly public area, most nightclubs rely upon 
anonymity; few people will give trouble to a group of gamers who're 
going about their own business without bugging other people. Treat it 
as a live-action attempt to uphold the Rule of Shade. 
Second, a nightclub practically demands atmosphere. It's a great 
way to encourage your players to dress up and partake of the World of 
Darkness mood. If you pick your club carefully, you can make sure it has 
a specific style and music that fit with what you want in your game. 
Of course, all of your players will have to be able to pay cover, and 
make sure that you can all meet the dress code. Still, a punk, rave or 
Goth style club probably won't pay much attention to outlandish props 
and tchotchkes. 
If you're fortunate enough to know the owner of a club, you might 
gain access to a back room, as well. You can use this for an off-stage 
location or just as a Storyteller's office. 
RESTAURANTS AND CWFW SHWS 
Benefits: Good social atmosphere; wide varieties for cultural mood 
Drawbacks: Public; may be costly 
Unlike other denizens of the World of Darkness, mages can and do 
congregate in public places for social activities with each other and with 
normal people. Restaurants are key among these gatherings: Sharing a 
meal is a very sociable setting. Plus, the choice of restaurant can vastly 
influence the mood of the game. A Japanese steakhouse provides a 
pseudo- Asiatic influence and encourages socialization around the 
table, while a somber, Renaissance-recreation tavern won't blink an 
eye at a group of gamers, and a large pub may have a whole room to 
dedicate to the troupe. 
The key to restauranteering is, like other public venues, to be aware 
of the surrounding people. If the group has enough players and calls 
ahead, most restaurants can make arrangements for a specific party 
room. This provides a great setting not only for socializing, but also for 
Tradition leaders to discuss business and for mages to ponder over clues 
or talk shop. If you're in a bar or other setting with lots of the public 
around, try to pick a specific corner or set of large tables and isolate your 
group, so that you don't risk accidentally shocking the folks just down 
the way. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Depending upon your venue, you may need to gather up a little 
extra money in advance. Sometimes players will be a little too poor for 
your choice ofrestaurant, or someone might accidentally stiff part of the 
bill or tip. It’s usually best if the Storyteller takes on the responsibility 
for coordinating payment, sticks it all on one tab and gathers up money 
from the players at check-out. 
BUSINESS WICES 
Benefits: Good Technocratic setting; practically guarantees pri- 
Drawbacks: May be hard to secure; can interfere with real-life job 
If some of your players (or you!) work in big business, chances are 
that your company has a building with one or more meeting rooms. 
With the proper arrangements, many businesses may be happy to open 
these to the employees after hours, so long as there’s no security issue. 
Playing in meeting rooms and offices gives the game avery Technocratic 
feel, so it’s perfect for just that sort of venue. 
vacy 
On the down side, some managers and companies don’t quite “get” 
the whole gaming thing. They may be less than pleased to learn that the 
after-hours club activity is actually some sort of strange organized 
theaterlike game. Furthermore, there’s always the risk that, if some 
damage or theft occurs, the troupe could be blamed. You must be 
extremely careful to stress the consequences of players getting out of 
hand. 
~ A L L S  
AND CCHTI~I-IERCIAL 
DISTRICTS 
Benefits: Spacious, with many locations 
Drawbacks: Public; limited hours 
An unusual sort of game could take place in or near a mall, or along 
a series of commercial streets. The players have the opportunity to 
spread out among the many stores, restaurants and plazas. Meetings are 
easily disguised in the back of a cafe or at the edge of a plaza as just a 
bunch of friends chatting. As long as players avoid running, shouting 
and making a mess in public, they can even play out having subtle 
magical duels! Just be careful with players who go overboard: Mall 
security can be frighteningly quick to crack down on potential threats; 
none of the stores wants to have their customers scared away. 
Most malls have limited hours of operation, so you need to plan 
your venue appropriately. If you live in a large college town or downtown 
in a city, you may have access to stores and restaurants that stay open 
late. In more rustic settings, only daytime will suffice. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


. -  
Remember to use identity tags, so that players don’t accost random 
shoppers. It’s also recommended that you set up a Storyteller’s office in 
some easy-to-meet location, so that you can have players meet with you 
every two hours or so in case you need to make announcements, 
changes or scene rulings. 
All of the usual caveats for sub-types of places in malls - 
stores and 
restaurants - 
apply, as well. 
PRIVATE RESIDENCES 
Benefits: Privacy 
Drawbacks: Few players willing to provide 
Gaming inside of a private home is, of course, the recommended 
venue. In a private residence, you can set up all the decorations, special 
scenes and unusual costuming that the host allows. Your players can be 
as boisterous and as deeply into their roles as desired, as long as you don’t 
disturb the neighbors. Such gatherings often look to the neighbors like 
just another evening party, too, so you can get away with a lot, especially 
if you keep the really odd props, costumes and sets indoors. 
Few people, however, will open their homes willingly and repeatedly 
to game nights. Large LARPs can cause a lot of mess, and some less- 
than-reputable sorts use this as an excuse to get a little light-fingered. 
One bad incident can turn a host off - 
and perhaps cause the host and 
friends to leave the game, too. 
Always make sure to close off any “off limits” rooms and denote 
them clearly with a sign. 
HQTELS 
Benefits: Private and meeting rooms available 
Drawbacks: Expensive 
Large-scale, convention-style games generally rake advantage of 
hotels. A hotel is, essentially, a private residence that you just use for 
a few days. Within the individual players’ rooms, anything goes, so long 
as it doesn’t violate the hotel’s rules: This makes it perfect for splitting 
up characters to meet by Tradition or cabal. At the same time, you can 
usually rent out a party or meeting room for your formal game site itself. 
If the Storyteller has a suite, the outer room can also serve as a special 
location for the game. This allows a wide variety of settings for play. 
Most hotels include a restaurant and are within driving distance of just 
Unfortunately, hotelling is expensive. Unless your troupe has very 
deep pockets, chances are you won’t be able to afford a hotel regularly. 
’ ’ 
‘ *  
about all of the other settings described here, too. 
;” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


CHURCHES 
Benefits: Very atmospheric; spacious 
Drawbacks: Generally hostile to LARPs 
A group with strong ties to a real-world church might be able to gain 
access to the church facilities as a club organization. Doing so outside 
of normal church hours can sometimes even guarantee a private set of 
rooms for use. This is in addition to the fact that many churches just bok 
too cool, and thus provide a great setting for Mage games. 
Unfortunately, roleplaying games have had a bad reputation with 
certain religious elements. While some pastors may be more tolerant 
than others, this is definitely a case of "find out beforehand." Never, 
ever try to sneak a LARP into a church without all parties knowing 
what's involved. There's too much risk of alienating the community. 
Benefits: Often have a good World of Darkness feel; spacious 
Drawbacks: May be hazardous; hard to arrange 
Large industrial corporations use industrial parks and lots - 
factories, steel mills and junkyards. Such locations often have a barren, 
technological look to them, which plays into the World of Darkness 
perfectly. Plus, they often have a great deal of space available, from 
gravel yards to abandoned factories. 
Acquiring the right to use such space can be difficult, though. 
Without proper connections to the owning company, using such space 
is generally considered trespassing. More importantly, old steel mills 
and factories often have very hazardous areas around them. A group that 
does manage to secure a site is best served by doing their gaming only 
in the outdoor gravel lots and small management sheds; don't risk losing 
players inside the bowels of some factory. 
Benefits: Wide range of scenery 
Drawbacks: Very difficult to coordinate 
One experimental form of venue is the traveling venue. In this form 
of play, your troupe splits up with Narrators, each of whom stays in touch 
by radio or cell phone. Each piece of the game is free to travel where it will. 
You can delineate specific areas and give them World of Darkness 
equivalents. This lets your players move from place to place with actual 
travel time taken into account, and lets you play up the separation 
between groups when they move out for different tasks. 
INDUSTIUAL PARKS 
TRAVELING 
VENUE 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Unfortunately, this is extremely difficult to coordinate. Every 
group needs a Narrator with it. Every Narrator needs a way to 
communicate with the central Storyteller regularly and consistently. 
You may find a need to suddenly pull people back together, such as 
when someone Correspondence steps to a friend; this can be hard to do 
when they’re 20 minutes apart in the real world. 
Traveling venues are best done as an experimental one-shot until 
you get the hang of them. 
DK~RATING 
YWRVENUE 
Once you’ve settled on a venue location, it’s also up to you to make 
sure it fits the game style you’re trying to promote. A little decoration 
goes a long way; the World of Darkness subsists on mood, not just on 
buildings. 
Your first and most important task is, of course, to figure out just 
how far you plan to go. Perhaps you don’t have enough money to 
completely redecorate your house, or maybe you don’t have the time or 
inclination to put up huge Styrofoam plinths and flashing techno- 
gadgetry. That’s fine - 
although, of course, the more you immerse your 
players in the game, the more they’ll probably enjoy it. 
The immersion factor of your site can’t be overestimated. The more 
your site pushes players into the spirit of things, the more they’re likely 
to remain in character. It’s much, much easier to keep a sense of 
character when the world actually feels and looks like the world the 
character’s supposed to be in. A site that doesn’t fire the imagination 
risks players feeling out of place or bored, which leads to out-of-play 
chatter. 
Obviously, if you’re using a public site, you have strict limitations 
on what you can and can’t do. Private sites fare a little better, especially 
if you have a few hours of prep time. 
m @ @ D  mUSIC 
Some venues like to use music to help set the feel of a specific 
location. This is good so long as it’s not overdone. One of the biggest 
problems of the nightclub-format venue is that players often can’t even 
hear one another over the music. Music shouldn’t be intrusive; it should 
be an audio cue that helps to set mood. 
You’ll probably want to avoid music with lyrics. Stick with pure 
instrumentals, otherwise conversations wind up fighting over the words 
of the music. Your choice of music has a strong effect on the environment, 
and can make it discordant, eerie or pleasant. Remember that music 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


doesn't always have to be soft tones and slow melodies. You can use 
instrumental rock, trance, grunge or techno to provide a more fast- 
paced, tension-filled atmosphere. Conversely, a Technocratic base 
might have elevator music designed to set visitors at ease (and make 
their minds open to manipulation). Strong classical music is almost 
always in vogue, unless you're talking about a game purely dominated 
by modem computer junkies and techno-wizards. 
Remember, the players don't necessarily have to easily hear all of 
the music. If some of it drops off and isn't quite audible, that's all right. 
The music is an accompaniment; it's not supposed to intrude. 
LIGHTING 
Most of the time, your site will have strong overhead white lighting 
or sunlight. This is fine for a typical game, but specific settings might 
call for something different. 
A good way to generate a more "spooky" atmosphere (such as an old 
Chantry) is to diffuse your light. Remove the bulbs from overhead 
lighting, and instead rely on lamps scattered about the room in various 
comers. If a room has white walls, try draping fabrics; this cuts down on 
the reflection and makes the light softer. Such diffusion gives more 
shadows, more areas of overlap and less of a sunlit atmosphere. It's a bit 
more cloistered and claustrophobic. 
Colored lighting's a neat trick, but be careful not to rely on it 
exclusively. For one thing, it's annoying when it makes reading difficult 
or a costume impossible to see. Blue or violet lights can make for a soft, 
nightlike atmosphere, but they also render dark print hard to read, 
which can hurt the ability to use character sheets, books and references. 
Dark red lights work a little better, and they create a more menacing 
tone. Yellow lighting seems more naturalistic and works well for scenes 
in the Middle Umbra. Green lights offer some of the same problems as 
blue, but also tend to project an oceanlike or unwholesome pallor, and 
make people look unhealthy; they're perfect for blighted places or nasty 
parts of the Umbra. 
Specific lighting, instead of just general room lighting, can also 
make a difference. Perhaps your high muckety-muck Hermetic mage 
has a small lamp stand next to his chair where he keeps a dim red lamp. 
This will cause the mage to seem sinister and out-of-place with respect 
to the rest of the room. Technocrats may have light strips around 
specific doors or on walls, indicating hazards or directions. 
Players can carry light, too - 
you can cheaply buy glowsticks at 
hardware stores and use them to represent magical light. A procession 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


of mages at night, all holding different colored glowsticks, can make for 
an eerie sight. With a little work you can also place a glowstick inside 
of a prop, making for a simple torch or lantern without the hazards of 
using real fire. 
AR@mAs 
Few games pay attention to scent, but it's a powerful memory 
trigger. Scents cause memories of similar situations to come to the fore, 
and thus can create a vivid sense of connection between a game scene 
and real events. 
Usually your site will have a neutral scent: Lived-in, visited, not 
particularly scented. Clever use of aromas and incense can change this. 
If you want to get across the idea of a Technocratic area, try 
cleaning tile floors just beforehand and spraying disinfectant about. 
These sharp smells will remind people of sterile, universitylike 
environments. For a hospitallike feel, put some rubbing alcohol near 
the doors and air vents; anywhere that there's air motion will cause the 
alcohol to evaporate, bringing its smell to the players who pass by. 
Tradition areas tend to have other strong scents. You want to avoid 
anything that will cause nausea or problems for players and visitors, of 
course, so using various items that Tradition mages count as foci - 
like 
blood, dung or ash - 
is right out. The scents from those can overwhelm 
your players and cause the game to suddenly become a little too strong 
for comfort. Instead, try safer smells that bring up Tradition images. 
Incense is, of course, the first one to spring to mind, but it's not the only 
possibility. Different types of incense might represent different 
Traditions. A lodge or living room can benefit from the use of a 
fireplace, which generates a musty, wooden smell; this has connotations 
of comfort and home. Restaurants tend to have the sharp smell of 
mustard and spices, which bring out a kitchen atmosphere and heighten 
the appetite. Some bookstores also sell aromas, and you can use 
perfumes to give a place a masculine scent or a smell like fresh rain. Even 
scented air fresheners can affect your environment. 
As with music, scent shouldn't be overwhelming. Just a little bit is 
enough to trigger memories. 
%BD 
AND l%EFMSHiTIENTS 
Aside from making sure that your site has access to bathroom 
facilities (since most games last for several hours), you might consider 
bringing foodstuffs as well. Mages eat just like anyone else, after all! 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Just like other facets of your venue, your choice of foods influences 
the appearance of the game. Neatly arranged sushi and rice dishes 
clearly tell the players “Akashic Brotherhood,” while barbecue and 
chips set the tone for more of a modern American trailer cook-out. An 
afternoon gathering with light snacks doesn’t feel as serious as a full 
dinner or potluck. 
Similarly, you can offer incentives for the players to bring foods 
according to their Tradition cultures. While not everyone’s a good 
cook, a few people will probably rise to the challenge, and you can 
always let someone bring a salad or simple dish from the supermarket’s 
deli counter. The “taste of a Tradition” helps players to feel more in 
character as they indulge in the character’s specific culture - 
or find 
it alien in spite of their Tradition training. 
What you serve has a strong effect on what you say about the game’s 
location, too. If you serve only coffee, you establish a more office-like 
atmosphere. Fruit juices give a picnic feeling, while sodas are more in 
line with a restaurant or home location. If you have heavy, elaborate 
meals, you generate more of a sense of permanence - 
the location 
seems to be more like a house or store, some place where one would find 
such foods; having only light snacks enforces that the characters are on 
the run or highly mobile. 
SIGNS 
AND PICTURES 
Sometimes you can’t be bothered to build a replica of Stonehenge 
in your back yard. That’s OK -your players can imagine that they use 
magic; they can imagine the location as well. 
Signs and pictures are a good compromise. Generally, having a 
visual is better than just having a description. For the aforementioned 
Stonehenge, you might copy a picture of the circle of stones onto apiece 
of paper, and label it ‘Standing Stones” underneath. Stick the picture 
on the end of a wooden post, and place a post for each stone - 
voila, 
you give your players a good approximation of the site, the locations of 
the stones and the appearance. 
Signs help indoors, too; having access to computer-printed signs 
greatly improves the look of your site. A Technocratic door with a 
laminated “No Entry” sign and a biohazard symbol is far more menacing 
than a 3” x 5” card with the same words hand-scrawled in pencil, and 
it’s only slightly more effort to make. 
You can tie a sign in with scent, too. Just apply the appropriate scent 
to your sign. Then, when your players interact with it, they get a sense 
of the location from more than just a picture. For instance, instead of 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


digging a grave in your backyard, you might put down a small cardboard 
cut-out in the shape of a headstone with a picture, and anoint it with 
an aroma like that of moist loam. Players who examine this will not only 
quickly realize that it’s an open grave (from the picture and description), 
but will smell from the sign the cues that come with the site. 
U~BRAL 
LKATI~NS 
As mages grow more experienced with Spirit magic and with the 
histories of their Traditions, an eventual push into the Umbra is nigh- 
inevitable. Umbral Realms offer chances to play in just about any 
imaginable type of site. Also, in the Umbra, mages can quest to find 
mentors or information long since lost to the real world. With the 
Umbra’s lesser restrictions on magic, it’s also a very tempting place for 
mages to do a lot of their work. 
KEEPING 
THE U ~ B R A  
IN CHKK 
In spite of its obvious advantages, the Umbra isn’t a place for mages 
to stay forever. Many a mage would retreat to the Umbra for all business 
if it were possible. After all, magic’s more powerful and Paradox less 
threatening there! So what keeps mages in the real world? Several 
things: 
Normal Sleepers can’t survive unaided in the Umbra. While it’s 
possible to bring people there, and some Realms are self-sustaining 
ecologies, it’s a very dangerous place. Marauding spirits, enemy mages 
and collapsing realities can all threaten Sleepers, who have no special 
defenses in the Umbra. Is your mage really going to take his family 
somewhere that a random, wandering Umbrood might eat them all? 
It’s hard to affect the material world from the Umbra. Mages must 
exert their powers across the Storm and into the realms of Unbelief to 
send magic from the Umbra to the physical world. In most cases, it’s 
easier just to do the magic on Earth. 
The Umbra has less impact on the consensus. Mages know that 
the Umbra reflects the real world, so if all the Traditions flee to the 
Umbra and the Technocracy completely takes over the Earth, the 
Umbra will soon follow. To make meaningful changes, magesmust fight 
for belief on earthly battlegrounds. 
The Umbra is downright dangerous! Spirits, demons and other 
malefic entities roam free in the Umbra without the threat of Unbelief 
to limit their powers. Many of these creatures are far more powerful than 
any mortal mage will ever be. This isn’t even counting the environmental 
hazards of places that are hostile to human life: Realms of fire, protean 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


places where the laws of reality shift at whim, primordial forests full of 
terrible dinosaurlike creatures and cannibals with barbed spears - 
at 
least the material world is a bit more predictable. Sure, you can always 
run into a mugger or get hit by a bus. In the Umbra, though, there are 
thousands more ways to die. 
Storytellers should be sure to play up some of these inconveniences 
of the Umbra from time to time, just to keep mages on their toes. The 
Umbra is not a safe haven, nor is it a place to effectively do battle for 
wars on Earth, nor is it an easy trip. Nevertheless, it’s a useful stopping 
ground for mages willing to brave its dangers. Like most magical 
endeavors, the mage risks much for the opportunity to gain much. 
Your key point should be this: Mages don’t just jump into the 
Umbra for a quick jaunt. Umbral travel is an important, powerful 
journey, requiring preparation and forethought. While a fast vulgar 
effect might suffice to slip through in some occasions, most Umbral 
travel relies on ceremony. Consider the hero striding down a long 
stairway in a damp cave as he closes in on the Underworld, or laying out 
a circle of stones in the deep woods to open the path to the Penumbra. 
Such travels should always have a sense of mystery and duty to them. 
lf your game assumes the existence of the Avatar Storm - 
which 
doesn’t always have to be the case - 
you’ve probably already run into 
arguments about when to use it and when not to use it. In simplest 
terms, the Storm causes injury to mages because shards of Quintessential 
power are drawn to the strength of the Avatar, and these shards flense 
the mage’s Avatar, spirit and body. Thus, the Storm causes damage 
when the mage passes the Gauntlet, and it distorts magical Effects that 
penetrate the Gauntlet. 
A mage who simply projects his mind through other realms (with 
Master-level Mind) never actually takes his spirit or body through the 
Gauntlet, so he’s safe from the Storm. 
Stepping into or out of the Umbra triggers the Storm’s effect once, 
as the mage crosses the Gauntlet. Once inside, the mage has crossed the 
Storm and is safe (at least, as safe as someone can be, in the Umbra). 
Effects cast from the Umbra to Earth or vice versa generally don’t 
hurt the caster, but they do damage the Effect. Such Effects become 
“Storm-tainted” and have a tendency to degrade. Ingeneral, a Storyteller 
can require anywhere from one to five extra grades of success for the 
Effect to penetrate at all, and these grades are stripped from the Effect, 
lowering its duration and potency. Furthermore, Effects often warp in 
WHEN 
TCB Use THE STCBIUI-I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


some strange way. If you're not sure how to warp the Effect, you might 
try drawing a card from a prepared Paradox deck and generating a suit- 
based phenomenon (see p. XX). 
It's possible to cross into the Umbra at a Shallowing, a site where 
the Gauntlet drops between worlds. No Gauntlet, no Avatar Storm. 
Anyone can cross there, even Sleepers and spirits. Unfortunately, 
mages tend to fight hotly over Shallowings as a result of this, and they're 
dangerous places because you never know what will come through. 
Reaching across the Gauntlet to thwack a spirit or pick something 
up does cause Storm damage. Just peeking across usually doesn't, 
although there may be exceptions. 
It's sometimes possible to find a "backdoor" through which a mage 
can reach the Umbra; for instance, a mage might slip into a Demense 
(p. XX) while asleep, then walk from dreams to the Umbral Dream- 
Realm and thence to the Umbra itself. This does bypass the Gauntlet, 
but it's a hazardous journey at best. 
You may find it easiest to set down a checklist of things that might 
trigger Gauntlet crossing and Storm damage, and then figure it out for 
your own game. For instance, in your game you might decide that 
floating around as a disembodied consciousness with Mind still draws 
Storm damage, but that mages can project their senses across with 
Correspondence and Spirit without risk, or you might even decree that for 
some reason the Digital Web is isolated from Storm effects (which will 
turn it into a popular jumping-off ground). 
As noted in Laws of Ascension, the Penumbra reflects all of the 
physical world. It is, in a sense, a mirror image of the real world, but 
viewed in a lake that sometimes has ripples, distortions or images from 
the past. 
Penumbral travel is pretty simple, and it's probably the least risky 
area of the Umbra. With but a step in all but the most Gauntlet-heavy 
areas, the mage can travel back to reality. Since the Penumbra contains 
reflections of the real world, you don't even need to make special sets 
and locations for it. Simply have your players indicate Umbral travel by 
placing one hand, palm facing down, against the chest. 
The Penumbra offers useful clues and travel opportunities. Since it 
reflects places in the material world as their Resonance shows, you can 
use the Penumbra to give hints about the real issues with a site. If a 
building has twisted cables that spark with energy and drip with slime, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


for instance, this is aclear indication that even if the place looksnormal 
in the real world, something is terribly wrong with it. By the same token, 
a Node isn’t necessarily immediately visible, but the area of the Umbra 
near it will probably seem vibrant and full of energy, which is a good 
indicator if the characters have lots of Cosmology or Node Lore. 
If you want to have a highly spiritual game, you can try adding props 
and scenery to show off parts of the Umbra. Give them a prominent 
purple tag or handkerchief to indicate that they’re in the Velvet 
Shadow. That way, players can ignore them until they use Spirit sight 
or travel. Of course, you probably don’t want to set out too many 
important clues this way - 
otherwise some players might be tempted 
to metagame.. . . 
The Penumbra has one other important function as far as mages are 
concerned: It offers pathways to other parts of the Umbra. By following 
the Penumbra through the heart of a city and down a paved road 
surrounded by skyscrapers, for instance, a mage can reach the realm of 
Dystopia. Similarly, sticking to the deepest shadows and losing the trail 
to blindly walk in places of decay may lead to the Chasm. For a mage 
without a guide, this is the only way to really find other Realms. Mages 
(and Sleeper visitors!) can become lost in the Umbra, though; not all 
paths are marked, and sometimes walking into a place doesn’t also mean 
easily walking back out. 
Note especially that the Technocracy tends to use Dimensional 
Science to protect its installations. Not only is the Gauntlet 
preternaturally high in such areas, but a few field generators can easily 
erect shielding that prevents mages from simply “walking” through 
building security into a heavily fortified installation and then dropping 
off bombs across the Gauntlet. 
THE ASTRAL 
UIIIBRA: 
IDEAS 
Unlike other areas of the Umbra, most astral travelers don’t rely 
heavily on Spirit magic; rather, they are travelers of the Mind. 
The Astral Umbra represents abstraction and ideas. You don’t even 
necessarily have to have a room to use it; players can be placed in a 
convenient quiet comer and run the scene all through narration. After 
all, the Astral Umbra is all in the head. 
If you want to make a place that has an Astral Umbra impression, 
try using a small, white room. Remove as much furnishing as you can, 
except for a single spartan item. Go for the feel of the surreal rooms 
inside Dave Bowman’s mind at the end of 2001 : A Space Odyssey. Items 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


or creatures suddenly appear in response to the mage’s thoughts, but 
they are only ephemeral things, without true substance. They are the 
patterns from which things form. With magic a mage can give them 
substance, but things with substance do not belong in the Astral Umbra 
and “fall” out to somewhere else (usually the Penumbra). 
The Astral Umbra is a place for confronting ideas. A mage can run 
into an idea given form here (try dressing someone up in plain white to 
personalize an idea). Other travelers of the mind sometimes meet, and 
time occasionally flows strangely here; it’s a place to swap ideas of 
history as well as thoughts of the future. 
Some other supernatural creatures sometimes frequent the Astral 
Umbra. In this place, combat doesn’t take place physically. Attacks 
generally rely on Mental Challenges, with the loser suffering Willpower 
Trait loss. A character who runs out of Willpower finds himself ejected 
from the Astral Umbra. 
In places where the Astral Umbra intersects with the Penumbra, 
Astral space has some level of “reality” to it, but visitors who concentrate 
on the thoughts of the place quickly move up into the realm of 
abstraction. Eventually it’s like a Zen riddle: Nothing but emptiness 
wrapped in ideas. Fortunately, leaving the Astral Umbra isn’t difficult; 
the traveler simply needs to let his mind lose hold of the ephemeral and 
sink back into the material - 
a sort of metaphysical slow descent back 
to the Penumbra. 
THE 
DARK UII-IBRA: 
GH~STS 
The Dark Umbra is a hostile place to mages. As noted in the 
crossover rule guides on p. XX, mages who visit find their powers 
weakened, and those who die here have no recourse. 
The Dark Umbra comprises two separate but coexistent layers: The 
Shadowlands and the Tempest. 
The Shadowlands are a sort of “negative Penumbra.” Take all the 
vibrancy of the Penumbra, the building up of things spiritual and the 
emotional outpouring that affects its structure. Now, send it through a 
negative filter, like a piece of film. That’s the Dark Umbra: A reflection 
of the physical world, but one tattered, sullied, decayed and overcome 
with despair. Travelers in the Shadowlands find that landscapes are 
bleak and crumbling, everything’s falling down. Negative emotions are 
amplified, and places of brightness and hope seem washed out. Some 
mages do use the Shadowlands for quick jaunts, but this is risky. Since 
the Shadowlands sucks away energy, a mage who isn’t careful can find 
himself trapped if he can’t perform a ritual strong enough to step back 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


I 
into the physical world. And, of course, ghosts lurk here, and they often 
resent the living. 
Metaphysically “below” the Shadowlands is the Tempest, a 
rampaging storm of primal matter. If the Penumbra is dynamic energy 
and growth reflected from reality and the Shadowlands are decay, the 
Tempest is the storm of raw primordialism from which all things sprang 
and to which they will all one night sink again. The Tempest itself 
generally seems like a strange plain of congealed soil and viscera, beaten 
by an ever-blowing wind that propels dust, grit, bits of flesh and chunks 
of forgotten detritus. Somewhere in the Tempest is a dark sea that seems 
to be the beginning and ending of all the land of the Tempest itself. 
Underneath the “soil,” tunnels and caverns crisscross, entering caves 
with sleeping monstrosities. In a few rare places, pockets of the storm 
subside, and in these sanctuaries ghosts raise citadels and sanctuaries. 
The Tempest is a nightmare for mages -very little other than powerful 
Forces and Entropy magic can shield against its energies, and the 
nightmare winds send flaying shards that will rip body and spirit apart. 
Things lurk out there, too: Not only ghosts, but plasmic creatures 
spawned from the not-quite-nothingness left over from the effluvia of 
Creation, and twisted memories of creatures and places that never were. 
As these things have no hold on “reality,” a mage cannot even rely on 
taking them across the Gauntlet to study; they are, in a sense, closer to 
the nothingness from which the cosmos originally came - 
and they all 
see intruding life as a cancer that must be cut out forever. 
Moving between Shadowlands and Tempest isn’t too difficult for 
ghosts, who do so as a matter of course. For mages it’s a matter of 
following paths, just as one might follow a Penumbral path to a Realm. 
The mage can follow sinkholes and places where reality seems to crack 
at the seams, often by dropping into pits, cracks in the ground or 
decaying streets. Coming back up from the Tempest is much harder: 
The Byways between safe citadels are not always consistent, and the 
mage may have to use Spirit magic just to pull himself back ‘(up.” Once 
something falls toward the heart of Oblivion, the pull of utter vacuum 
is loath to give it up. 
Mages might visit the Darkumbra to gain information from ghosts, 
or in search of memories, or reflections of things destroyed. It’s said that 
somewhere in the Tempest one can find anything that ever died or was 
broken. That’s a powerful incentive for a seeker of lost knowledge. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Rwns: GTHER 
Wau~s 
As a mage moves beyond the reflections of earthly reality, the 
Umbra takes on other, stranger shapes. At the Horizon, the boundary 
of imagination, it forms Realms, or places where specific images of 
reality hold sway. These Realms sometimes look like bits out of the real 
world, and other times are places that defy imagining. Some mages 
argue that Realms may have once been part of the world, but the 
Consensus ejected them to the Umbra when they were believed 
“unreal” by too much of humanity. Other mages argue that Realms are 
simply parts of the Umbra that respond to deeply imbedded urges and 
dreams of humanity. 
Realms offer you a very exciting level of flexibility with Mage play. 
Since Realms can mimic just about any place you could imagine, you 
can take yourMage characters into awelter ofdifferent settings-near- 
future dystopia, sci-fi, fantasy, savage exploration, nihilistic tribalism or 
anything else you can imagine. Depending upon what your players want 
to do with their characters, you might make such trips a one-time deal 
for a little flavor, or a large part of the chronicle. You could even have 
your game set mostly in the Umbra or half-and-half split between 
Realms and reality. 
Very powerful mages can actually create their own Realms, but 
doing so typically requires access to a Node. The Quintessence flow of 
the Node is moderated by the mage and sent into the Umbra; the mage 
uses his power to direct it into creation of a new place. Out on the 
Horizon, where the Umbra reflects space, the emptiness can be tumed 
into anything a mage can dream of. In the past, Chantries would form 
Umbral Realms specifically for their members, using the power of their 
hosting Nodes. Unfortunately, the dearth of skilled mages in the 
modem age, combined with the difficulty of sustaining a Node’s power 
across the ever-strengthening Gauntlet, makes it harder and harder to 
keep up a Horizon Realm now. 
Realms can range from tiny to near-infinite. A mage with a yen for 
privacy and a small Node might shape a tiny, one-room Realm on the 
Horizon, a place where he can shut himself away from outsiders and 
cloak it with all manner of spells to avoid detection and entry (probably 
using Comespondence and Spirit). Legendary Realms of the past were said 
to house entire planets of their own; mages could visit whole worlds- 
that-might-have-been. 
Of course, some Realms seem to sustain themselves. These highly 
prized places are stable within the Umbra; mages can make use of them 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


at whim. Unfortunately, their rules are their own - 
a mage can’t step 
into a pocket Realm and simply reshape it as desired, but must rather 
accept its version of reality. That’s why so many mages prefer to make 
their own Realms; sculpting a Realm allows the mage to make up its 
rules. 
%4RD AND sHA14E &ALlTIS 
Most Tradition mages know about the Shard Realms: Umbral 
reflections of the planets that correspond to specific Spheres. Each 
planetary body has a Sphere attuned to it, according to magely lore. 
Arguments still rage about whether this indicates some underlying 
cosmological truth to the system of Spheres, or whether the widespread 
acceptance of the Spheres caused their projection onto the Shard 
Realms. 
Mages visit the Shard Realms to gain specific understanding of a 
given Sphere. A mage who wants to learn more about the nature of 
Time, for instance, can visit the Shard Realm of Time. There, the laws 
of the Sphere become manifest. In strange ways, the Sphere’s power 
comes to the fore and becomes visible to visitors. 
A Shade Realm, by constrast, is an Umbral reflection of the cosmos, 
as cast through the lens of a given Sphere. The Shade Realm of Life, for 
instance, is an entire universe filled with life and living things, with 
only tiny places here and there containing Forces or Matter. These 
Realms also offer insights into their Spheres, but are very dangerous to 
visit. Magical protections are a necessity so that the traveler can 
breathe, survive the forces at work and even comprehend the altered 
cosmology. 
When you set out to use a Shard Realm in play, you should prepare 
a special setting in advance. Shard Realms have very strange 
characteristics that definitely set them apart from normal Earth. 
Therefore, you should take pains to dress up a room or outdoor garden 
specifically in the way the Shard Realm would look. If possible, try your 
best to use lighting and scent to increase its exotic appeal (see previous 
notes on those). You can use strobing, crashing red-and-yellow lights 
for the Realm of Forces, for instance, or softly pulsing yellow lights for 
Life. Always make sure that the surroundings play up the fact that it’s 
an alien place. 
Sol: The sun is the “Shard Realm Infinite,” the beginning and 
ending of magical power. No portals or paths lead to it now; travel is 
seemingly impossible. 
“: 
-.-. 
” 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


as the people from Earth? 
Yes, if you want them to be. 
Earth that humanity decided to live in. This doesn't make th 
components less "real," though. A sword taken from Concordia 
rth is still a sword, and still functions and has solid mass (as lo 
otherwise be a normal person. 
You can even allow people to play characters who come fro 
these other Realms. The benefits and drawbacks of doing so shou 
e Renaissance-era sensibilities and technical know-how, as pe 
t may suffer from Agoraphobia. 
Mercury: The Shard Realm Correspondence. Travel to and from 
this Shard Realm is difficult at best, because it seems to occupy a level 
of Correspondence understanding that surpasses the way Correspondence 
works in conventional three-dimensional space. The Shard Realm is a 
place where distance and direction are nearly meaningless; navigation 
is impossible to anyone without Correspondence knowledge and difficult 
even to those mages. 
Venus: The Shard Realm Life. In the Umbral reflection of Venus, 
the planet is a verdant, hot jungle. Mages sometimes visit to explore its 
reaches for special herbs or spores, but it's also the home to spiritual 
predators of great size and danger. Below its surface are tunnels filled 
with all manner of crawling things. The dusty layer of the planet is 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


actually an organic soup. Travelers risk disease and parasitic infection 
if they do not have Life magic protection. 
Mars: The Shard Realm Forces. The most famous Chantry of 
Tradition history, Doissetep, once resided here. The Umbral reflection 
of Mars is a barren land tom with lightning, earthquakes and roiling 
skies. The temperature reflects reality: Burning during the day, freezing 
at night. Here all extremes of forces come to bear. Some evidence 
indicates the presence of Bygones on the Shard Realm, although none 
can say with certainty if these were simply things that passed to the 
Umbra from Unbelief, or creatures that actually thrived on Mars before 
humanity. 
Jupiter: The Shard Realm Matter. As a tremendous body of swirling 
matter in the physical world, Jupiter casts an Umbral reflection of a 
huge place of caverns, rocks, magma and metal. Due to its sheer size, a 
great variety of possibilities emerge. Mages sometimes visit this Shard 
Realm specifically to look for rare elements or unusual compounds for 
magical research. 
Saturn: The Shard Realm Time. Saturn's Shard Realm may be the 
most cryptic of all. It seems a place devoid of spatial dimension; rather, 
travelers in it find themselves altering their relationship to the time- 
stream, causing passage of time for themselves or changing when they 
come back. For this Shard Realm, you may simply want to use a very 
small room with blacklighting and violet wall hangings - it's so 
esoteric that even mages have trouble navigating it. Saturn's Shard 
Realm is a place where desperate mages go either to study Time Mastery 
or to hope to be catapulted into another era. Nobody yet knows how to 
control the flow of Time here to successfully predict the exit point. 
Uranus: The Shard Realm Spirit. Essentially, this Realm is a large 
"reflection of a reflection." Here, spiritual power is unfettered by any ties 
to the material world. Binding spirits is difficult, and all Resonance is 
pronounced. Emotional states flare up in auras, and a person's spiritual 
nature becomes visible in a halo or aura. You might choose to double the 
effects of all Resonance in this Realm. More eerily, if you have a bunch 
of colored glowsticks on hand, try passing them out to the players with 
colors that seem to match their personalities - 
red for hot-tempered, 
blue for serene, green for sullen and so on. In the Shade Realm of Spirit, 
all spirits become untethered: Spirits are no longer trapped in fetishes and 
the Avatars of mages accompany them side-by-side. Each spirit keeps a 
thin cord that binds it to its housing, but this can easily be broken - 
and 
things can be ejected, spiritless, from the Shade Realm. 
I 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Neptune: The Shard Realm Mind. Much like the Astral Umbra, 
this is a place of thoughts. Mental states come to the fore, but unlike the 
Shard Realm Spirit, they don’t simply appear in halos - 
they can 
actually cause subtle changes in the environment. In the Shade Realm, 
this is even more pronounced, and mental states can dramatically shift 
the landscape. Some mages consider the Shade Realm to be essentially 
a tabularasa that forms an entire mindscape around every visitor. Other 
mages theorize that the Shade Realm of Mind is, itself, a tremendous 
consciousness - 
perhaps the universal unconscious. 
Pluto: The Shard Realm Entropy. At the edge of the solar system 
lies the tiny world devoid of light and heat, where all things freeze and 
crumble. In its Shard Realm, the Euthanatos have one of the few 
remaining powerful Umbral Chantries (placed on the Umbral reflection 
of Cerberus, a moon of Pluto). The archmaster Senex continues to 
teach the power of Entropy as students survive inside the walls of a place 
where, just beyond the protective barrier, the world is devoid of light, 
heat or anything but slowly cracking ice, crumbling dust and energy- 
sapping vacuum. The Shade Realm of En~opy is even more of an 
enigma; old journals describe it as a place of utter darkness that makes 
the Shadowlands look well-lit by comparison, where nothing has form 
or structure. 
SPACE AND THE DI~ENSI~NA: 
BARRIER 
$ 4  
1:s 
a i  4I 
Some mages mistakenly believe that, beyond a certain point, outer 
space becomes the Umbra. This isn’t quite true, although it’s close. Past 
the asteroid belt, the Gauntlet becomes staggeringly low; it’s very easy 
to cross between “our” space and the other dimensions at that point. 
Still, the Umbra remains separate - 
that’s why mundane astronomers 
on Earth don’t see giant ruined castles on Mars; Doissetep existed in the 
Umbral reflection of the planet. 
Sons of Ether, Void Engineers and the occasional travel-minded 
Virtual Adept do make jaunts out into space itself. As the Gauntlet 
thins (to about a 2), it becomes possible to very easily slip into other 
Realms. Tradition mages attribute this to space remaining largely 
_- unmapped and unknown and thus analogous to areas of the Umbra; the 
Void Engineers simply claim that outer space is free from the distortion 
shadows cast by Earth-bound technological signatures and therefore 
open field for warp effects and dimensional travel. 
Games taking place in outer space have their work cut out for them. 
I, 
\ : 
; - P I ‘  . 
7 ,  
Unless you’re in the movie business, you’ll have to fake a whole lot - 
or set all of your action on the inside of a station or ship, such as the 
L I ,  - 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


Technocracy’s recent Mars base, Ares City. Remember that space 
expeditions are still very much like early submarine excursions: Quarters 
are cramped, regulations are strict, and one false move could kill 
everyone! Players should always have the overwhelming sense that 
they’re way out of their element, in a hostile environment that’s waiting 
to kill them. 
You probably don’t need specific rules for explosive decompression 
and such. Suffice to say that an unprotected mage in space suffers just 
like anyone else. Sure, a magical Effect can turn the void into breathable, 
habitable ether, but the mage had best be quick about it. 
Assume, if you must, that characters unprotected in space take two 
levels of aggravated damage automatically each turn, due to pressure 
change, radiation and the boiling/ freezing of bodily fluids and tissues. 
Of course, the Shard Realms aren’t the only places out there. Nor 
are the reflections of the Umbra. As noted before, many places exist 
that predate magely intervention - 
and that exist without mages’ 
input. 
The trick lies in keeping the Umbra mysterious and unknowable. 
While the descriptions here provide some leeway for playing in various 
Realms, there should never be a ”complete catalog to the Umbra” or an 
easy map. New places form; old places change. No mortal will ever fully 
comprehend the depths of the Umbra. Some mages might become 
familiar enough with a given Realm or two to feel comfortable there, 
but no traveler should ever be totally confident that he’s seen all of the 
Umbra or that he always knows what to expect. 
The sample Realms presented below encapsulate some ideas of 
things in the Umbra as described in the Book of Worlds for Mage. They 
are, however, by no means the only places, and even Storytellers who 
use that resource should not consider it the be-all end-all of everything 
Umbral. 
CBTHERKENJIS 
CHAS~: 
THE 
REALIII w THINGS 
LQST 
Become lost in the Penumbra, follow the cracks and the shadows, 
and there’s a chance you’ll end up at the Chasm. The Chasm is 
essentially a tremendous rift that stretches as far as the eye can see in 
either direction, surrounded by barren, wasted plains. Supposedly, 
everything that’s lost (but not broken) eventually makes its way here. 
Just looking at the Chasm is dangerous: It has a hypnotic effect on 
the viewer. A mage who looks over the edge of the Chasm and into its 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


depths must make a Static Willpower Challenge (difficulty of six 
Traits). Failure means that he becomes hypnotized by it. On the 
following turn, he must make another challenge; failing that, the mage 
leaps into the Chasm. If friends don’t save the mage within a turn - 
using magic, rope, whatever - 
the mage falls into the darkness beyond 
viewable range and is gone. 
Several paths lead down into the Chasm itself. Watching the path 
while descending seems relatively safe; it’s only looking into the 
unfettered Deep that carries the hypnotizing, self-destructive weight. 
Mages can follow paths of Iron, Gold, Silver, Soil - 
each path seems 
almost metaphorical as well. Typically, the mage follows a narrow 
crevice or channel limned with a specific material. The paths seem, in 
some ways, to apply to metaphors of Ascension; the path of Iron has 
jagged rock and treacherous footing, while the path of Gold tempts with 
lost relics and jutting bits of valuable-looking crystals and minerals. 
Mages who can’t master their own desires may find the paths too 
difficult to walk safely. 
Beyond a certain distance down, the gloom of the Chasm becomes 
impenetrable. The Chasm itself sucks away magical energy; only a few 
hundred feet down and all magical Effects fail. This means (also) that 
mages have no way to see the path or to fly out if they fall.. . . 
Since all things lost end up at the Chasm eventually (if they don’t 
wind up in someone else’s hands), there’s always potential to find a lost 
relic or bit of knowledge here. The price may be too high, though. It 
seems that nobody ever leaves the Chasm without making some sort of 
sacrifice. 
C@NC@RDIA: H@ES SI-IA’rT€ED 
In the Renaissance, the Traditions gathered their most powerful 
resources and, with the help of Nodes donated by every Tradition, 
created one of the most enduring and powerful Horizon Realms ever 
known. Called Concordia, the Realm was (and is) an entire world, 
complete with people, ecology, landscapes and cities. In the midst of it 
was Horizon itself - 
the Traditions’ centerpiece Chantry, the seat of 
their archmages’ power and the show of all that mythic strength could 
create. 
Horizon was betrayed and destroyed. The Tradition archmasters 
and Primi scattered in its wake. Technocrats crushed the stronghold 
and set up powerful barriers to shut Concordia out from the power of its 
earthly Nodes. Still, with the arrival of the Avatar Storm soon after, the 
Technocracy lacked the resources to co-opt or destroy Concordia 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


completely. Horizon itself became little more than a decrepit shell, 
occasionally visited by a daring member of the Traditions, while 
Concordia slowly fell apart around it. 
Without the power of earthly Nodes to sustain it, Concordia is 
coming apart. Its people and creatures sicken, and the land cracks and 
shakes. In some places, the world itself breaks off and reveals the endless 
night-void of the Umbra. Because the world was built as a reflection of 
the Renaissance, its inhabitants don't understand what's happening; 
they only know that their paradise is dying, and that the powerful 
wizards who once protected them have died or fled. 
Only desperate or hopelessly idealistic Tradition mages come here 
now. In some ways, Concordia once exemplified the best impulses of 
the Traditions: The Renaissance's cultures and arts all came together in 
a world where the Traditions blended their instincts and beliefs. Now 
it's a Realm suffering from the Traditions' hubris. 
DYST~PIA: THE 
b ~ r n  
e+ THE CITY 
Some mages think of Dystopia as the near future. Others assert that 
even the Technocracy would never allow the world to come to this fate. 
This is a Realm crafted in the image of Memopolis and Blade RU~WT. A 
Realm where the great, technologically advanced but socially decadent 
cities sprawl over a dessicated landscape in a world where progress' 
effluvia permanently blackens the sky. 
When mages travel along Umbral roads between sprawling 
skyscrapers, they sometimes approach Dystopia. The city itself is nearly 
limitless; it's as if civilization had spread endlessly across the face of the 
planet. Skyscrapers rise up from asphalt and blacksoil, while in between 
them low, neon-sign-covered buildings huddle with their patched roofs 
and metal-corrugated walls, barely keeping out the acidic rains. Sunlight 
is wan at best, and nightfall lit by the burning of multitudes of glaring 
lights and giant screens. 
In the depths of the streets and below them, squatters eke out a 
precarious existence from the trash and rubbish that trickles down. 
Entire villages, buried by new layers of technology, exist under the 
cities. Above them, the masses work and live in cramped apartments, 
staring at glazed computer screens in cubicles. At the tops of the 
skyscrapers, above the toxic clouds, are the arboreal palaces of the few 
and privileged, who live in the sky with the sun. 
Pattern-based spirits are common in Dystopia, though they usually 
take the form of small robots or computer programs. Mages must be 
cautious: Technology for tracking strangers is much better than Earth's, 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


and mages have none of the identity cards, chips or numbers that 
Dystopia's citizens take for granted from birth. Even the Technocracy 
shuns this place; its bleak take on social structure and its polluted 
wreckage are signs of a failed technology. 
Citizens of Dystopia often have small Enhancements (as the 
Background): Many can plug into computer terminals or have small 
cosmetic modifications. The people who live Down Below are often 
mutated aberrations, by contrast, turned squalid by their living 
conditions. 
The streets of Dystopia often seem eerily familiar. That's because 
they're borrowed from the streets of the most teeming cities the world 
over. A vendor's cart from Hong Kong may stand in front of a Calcutta 
alleyway in which lurks a tin shack used as housing in New York. 
Mages in Dystopia are recommended to leave as expediently as 
possible. Unfortunately, the only sure way out is to either get above the 
cloud layer and use magic to Leave (a tricky proposition, because of all 
the guards and protections on the upper class), or to pay off a local spirit 
to guide one out and hope that it doesn't signal an alarm. 
THE 
DIGITAL WEB 
Perhaps the most infamous of magely Realms is the Digital Web: 
the magical reflection of the connections behind all computer, telephone 
and similar communication devices. While Sleepers can experience 
the Web in its mundane internet form, mages with the right Effects or 
devices can actually enter the Digital Web and see an entire computerized 
world of virtual reality. 
When entered holistically or with sensory input, the Digital Web 
resembles some sort of strange cross between Tron, Johnny Mnemonic, 
The Matrix and just about every other vision of cyberspace out there. 
Bright lines of light connect distant vistas; travelers can enter these 
vistas and find themselves in mini-Realms ("sectors") that have patterns 
and rules just like any other Realm. It's possible for a web sector to seem 
like a haunted castle, a Victorian manor, a high-tech spacecraft or just 
about any other imaginable setting; it all depends on the whims of the 
mage who "formatted the sector and programmed it. 
While in the Digital Web, mages interact through their "icons" - 
digital representations of themselves. Mages who enter solely with 
Mind magic often take on a sort of abstract representation or simple 
image; mages who enter holistically (in body, using Correspondence and 
Life) have "physical" reality in the web as well. Actions in the Web 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


reflect things going on in the internet: For instance, a mage can “see” 
layers of things not visible to Sleepers. A mage doesn’t see a website as 
a static, flat thing, but rather an object floating in the air with images 
according to its design. Because the mage exists in a more detailed 
dimension of webspace, it’s possible for the mage to also do tricks that 
seem impossible to Sleepers, like easily rearranging websites, booting 
Sleepers from the ‘net, even providing streams of real-time information 
from sound and video that seem implausible to Sleepers. 
Within the Web, everything’s a construct of Forces - 
energy given 
a virtual form. Thus, mages must use Forces to control, create or destroy 
“objects” in the Web. A mage who enters holistically can bring items 
with him but must use Matter and Forces to give themvirtualequivalents. 
Conversely, a master of Forces can create items at a whim. 
Of course, the Digital Web isn’t all fun and computer games. People 
who experience the Web for long periods of time tend to suffer 
repetitive stress injuries, headaches, eyestrain and back trouble - 
all 
signs that the Web slowly pulls a trickle of Quintessence from its users 
to sustain itself. Some programs in the Web can be dangerous, and 
Nephandi and worse also lurk in the digital byways. Plus, there’s the 
danger of a crash. During the Reckoning, the entire Web crashed and 
“whited out.” As a result, dozens of web-spinning mages died, their 
Avatars torn into fractal patterns and scattered across webspace. Entire 
sectors were lost; in some places, pieces of original programming 
patterns shone through, making haunted areas. And, of course, more 
Sleepers become hooked up every day, and they’re always becoming 
more skilled. Eventually they may reach the same level of skill that 
mages have with the web. 
ENTERING 
THE WEB 
A mage can experience the Web in multiple different forms. Using 
Mind magic, a mage can send his mind into the Web itself. In this form, 
the mage has a translucent icon indicating that he’s essentially a 
projected sensory presence. The mage can experience the Web but 
can’t actually affect it without doing magic. 
Using Life and Correspondence, a mage can holistically shift into the 
Web. Spirit can do this as well; mages theorize that the Web is, in some 
senses, a manifestation of Correspondence space (the “space between 
spaces,” if you will) and therefore that Spirit isn’t always necessary. A 
physically-present mage literally vanishes from the “real” world and 
appears inside the Web, and can move around, interact with things and 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


cause repercussions just as a result of picking things up, breaking them, 
setting them on fire, etc. 
Mages experiencing the Digital Web holistically do cross the 
Avatar Storm (unless you don’t want to use the Storm, or want to make 
the Web a popular stomping ground). 
Typical foci used for entry include virtual rigs (for sensory entry) or 
full-body virtual suits like those in The Lawnmower Man (for holistic 
entry). 
REPRESENTING 
THE WEB 
Representing the Web in your game is much like representing any 
other Realm. You can use a separate room and place players there when 
their characters visit the Web. Dress it up with colored lighting, 
especially strip-lighting and glow sticks; use computer parts from 
second-hand stores to add to the technology appearance. Some special 
sites might have ground rules that make them look like a different 
Realm; you’ll want to use a slightly off-colored light to make these 
places seema little “odd” even if they’re meticulously designed to match 
up with what they seem to be. (Note how in The Manix a green filter’s 
used for all scenes that take place in webspace.) 
You can also use IRC and similar internet chat programs for Web 
reps. A tech-savvy player can set up a mIRC room, and mages can drop 
by there to chat. In the Digital Web, such private havens can take on 
the appearance of actual rooms, and the mages can see each other and 
converse (or even fight!) normally. Just make sure that a Storyteller is 
on hand to moderate! 
For a much more detailed look at the Digital Web, see the 
sourcebook Digital Web 2.0. This gives example locations, some rotes 
and chronicle ideas revolving around the Web. 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


%, 
1 ,IC ,C",JC.u CULL..,I. 
"I 
YU..., 
"L 
U.S *..b... 
I .  mdates Mind's Eve Theatre with the develoD- 
From the shrinking 
cities, the signs are ev 
I 
STOCK #SO22 
$19.95 U 
is nigh. Gaia needs Her warriors more than eve 
these desperate days.-Laws 
of t 
is the-updated ruleboc 
Garou in live-action ganr 
edition of Werewolf: Th 
makes new rules and adva 
in Mind's Eye Theatrc 
thin 
all t 
1 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6


WW5033 $17.9 
Mind’s Eyc 
robert wheeler (order #16032)
6
